DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 30, 2015
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on today?   
TYRRELL HATTON:   It's okay.   It was a bit of a disappointing start, 3‑putt the first, missed the green right on the second.   So it was kind of a 3‑putt there.   So obviously not an ideal start but conditions weren't easy today.   The wind was opposite to how it's been Thursday, Friday.   So took a little bit of getting used to and different clubs into different greens.   It was okay.   I sort of fought back quite well.   
   
 Q.   It's worth elaborating on the weather because when you shoot a course record in horrendous conditions on the second day and then it seems that little bit more benign, presumably it was just hard work again?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   It was a little bit.   The course record didn't last too long unfortunately.   But yeah, it was just quite a difficult day.   Haven't been feeling great the last two days, so this morning was a lot worse than yesterday, so I'm quite happy to shoot 1‑under and I'm looking forward to getting in bed.  
   
 Q.   Without it sounding like an episode of casualty, what's wrong with it?   
TYRRELL HATTON: S it's weird, skin is really sore to touch, sore throat, blocked nose, just really achy.   So I'm looking forward to my week off next week.  
   
 Q.   Something that's happened before or just this week?   
TYRRELL HATTON:   Just started happening on Thursday night.   So really weird.   So hopefully I'll feel a bit better tomorrow and get better for Austria.   
   
 Q.   Not affecting the mind, concentration?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   I was quite dizzy this morning.   I didn't really get any fluid inside me.   So probably why I 3‑putted the first, that's what we put it down to, anyway.   We blame that.   Yeah, it's not easy.  
   
 Q.   Plenty of positives, still in a lovely position into Sunday?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   Yeah, I think I'm four back at the moment but I'll take that going into Sunday.   Conditions, I'm not sure what the forecast is tomorrow but I know I need a low one and hopefully I'll do that.   
   
 Q.   Third round of 70, how do you reflect on that one?   
TYRRELL HATTON:   Decent day's work.   Quite difficult out there today with the wind being opposite to the previous two days.   Wasn't the best of starts for me, 3‑putt the first, and I guess 3‑putt at the second from just missing the green right.   Quite a difficult start but fought back quite well and looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You finished fourth at The Scottish Open last year on a course that was a linksy course.   What is it about this style of play that brings the best out of you?   
TYRRELL HATTON:   I don't know really.   Used to play it a lot as an amateur, so I guess just from practise from that really, every big amateur tournament seemed to be on a links course.   All the English guys have got used to playing links golf and thankfully I'm playing well on it.  
Hopefully I'll play well tomorrow and it's just a case of holing the putts again and hopefully I'll make some ground on the leader.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT