ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 15, 2015
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What worked?   
TYRELL HATTON:   Everything, really, which is a surprise because I've done very little practice since Dubai last year.   So come here with not high expectations.   So to start off as I have is very pleasing.  
   
 Q.   I might suggest you had some time to yourself and to reflect on last year and celebrate just that little bit.   
TYRELL HATTON:   I had five weeks off and then in that time I was in the gym working back home, and got some good work done there.   Haven't done too much practice since the new year.   But maybe that's helped.   
   
 Q.   What was it you were looking to achieve?  
TYRELL HATTON:   Just to get a stronger core, maybe help me hit the ball a little bit further.   I don't struggle with distance, but every few yards is always helpful.   Just as a personal point of view, it's difficult to eat well out here when we are traveling all the time, so it's easy to put on weight, especially when you like a burger, as well.   
   
 Q.   First week and first round of this year, but are you feeling the benefit of it already?   
TYRELL HATTON:   Yeah, I feel stronger which is good.   Nice to start the new year feeling good and obviously today was great and helped with the confidence.  
   
 Q.   Are you the sort who makes resolutions and targets for the season?  
TYRELL HATTON:   Not really.   But I mean, targets for me this year would be getting my World Ranking inside the top 100.   I would like to get to Dubai again at the end of the year, and it would be nice to get my first win.   
   
 Q.   And essentially, seeing it was a rookie season and a spectacular rookie year, you know now know it to a degree and now you can build on it.   
TYRELL HATTON:   Yeah, now just time to improve.   Last year was a great year and exceeded all my expectations.   If I can improve on that, I'll be very happy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT