DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 22, 2014
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Second day in succession, you birdied the first four holes, and you said it was hard to keep the momentum going.   How about today?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   Same old story I guess.   I seemed to play in the first four holes quite well the first three days, and then I just can't keep the putts dropping, really.   It's quite frustrating, and I had a good chance on 18 to get to 11, but just missed.   Hopefully I'll have a better back nine tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   This is a huge championship, you're in your rookie season and on the leaderboard, alongside you Stenson, Rose, McIlroy, what are your emotions like?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   It's weird to think that it's my name next to theirs, but obviously I've got my job to do.   So I'll just keep playing and hopefully have a good one tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You dreamt of being a European Tour pro after visiting Wentworth, the PGA Championship, as a young man and you have a chance to win the Tour Championship tomorrow.   What would it mean to you?   
TYRRELL HATTON:   Well, it would be great.   I think I've got to win to win Rookie of the Year, as well, which would be quite special.   But I've been playing well, so if the putts drop on the back nine, then who knows.   
   
 Q.   How would you assess your play today?   
TYRRELL HATTON:   I played great.   Got off to another fast start, which is good.   Obviously struggled to keep the momentum going.   The putts weren't dropping really.   
   
 Q.   You still put yourself in position heading into tomorrow.   What kind of mentality do you think you have to have tomorrow to hold some hardware?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   Just another fast start would be good, and then hopefully just keep it going for the rest of the day.   Hopefully I keep holing putts.  
   
 Q.   What's the best thing about your game that you are doing so far this week?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   I think my iron play has been really good.   I've given myself plenty of chances.   Over the first front nine, I've taken them.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on your position headed into the final day of the tournament?   
TYRRELL HATTON:   I think I'm three back at the moment, might be four by the end of play, but it's a good position to be in.  
   
 Q.   You've been starting like a dream the last couple of days.   
TYRRELL HATTON:   Yeah, it's been great.   Got off to a really fast start.  
   
 Q.   Hard to keep it going, I would imagine, birdie after birdie to start, you want another but and has not always happened?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   I've been struggling with that unfortunately.   I've been hitting good putts but just missing.   Hopefully they will drop tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   We had a conversation in Turkey about being Rookie of the Year, and you said, no, Brooks Koepka is the one to chase, and he won last week.   Still in your mind?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   Yeah, back of my mind.   Obviously love to win that.   But we'll just see.   Hopefully do well tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Clearly an enormous tournament; are you very much in control of emotions and your game as you play and tackle this course?   
TYRRELL HATTON:   Yes, obviously been playing well and just got to try and keep that going, and if I'm in contention tomorrow afternoon, there will be a bit more pressure but hopefully I'll do well under that.   
   
 Q.   It's been an excellent year by any stretch of the imagination.   Do you pinch yourself at times?  
TYRRELL HATTON:   Not yet.   I'll have plenty of time to reflect on it come December because I won't be doing anything for the rest of the year after tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT