ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2014
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What pleased you most about your play today?
TYRRELL HATTON:   I would have to say my putting.   I holed from range quite a few times out there which was great.   I've been putting really well the last three days.

Q.   This is your first full year on Tour.   How are you finding Tour life? 
TYRRELL HATTON:   It's been good.   It's a lot of traveling.   Worked out last night, it's my 16th tournament this year, and that's four months away from home already.   So I'm looking forward to a few weeks off after this. 

Q.   We saw a bit of you in the early part of the season with a good finish in Abu Dhabi and Joburg; what would you say are the strengths of your game? 
TYRRELL HATTON:   My putting at the start of the year was great, was probably why I had a few good finishes.   Obviously habit of a cold spell through the middle.   Putting has not been great, but obviously this week started putting well again and near the top of the leaderboard.

Q.   What about tomorrow, you have an opportunity to win; how do you feel about that?
TYRRELL HATTON:   Obviously that would be great but we just take it one hole at a time, one shot at a time and see where we end up on the 18th green. 

Q.   How good was it out there today? 
TYRRELL HATTON:   Really good.   I mean, my irons weren't but I was saved by the putter.   I holed quite a few putts from distance today which was really good.

Q.   And were you conscious of just the way that you were building a score moving up that board? 
TYRRELL HATTON:   I had a few cheeky peeks at the leaderboard to see where I was at, but take it one hole at a time and see how we go.

Q.   I'm sure you'll appreciate there are plenty of players suffering and fall back on the back nine and the way you played the back nine gives you every opportunity.
TYRRELL HATTON:   Yesterday the back nine was playing really tough because it was the opposite wind around one and we had the same wind today, maybe slightly different, a bit more off the left.   But still tough.   Every tee shot's quite tight so got to keep it in the fairway.

Q.   Are you a fan of this type of golf, this links style?
TYRRELL HATTON:   Yeah, we played this every week as an amateur, so it's like second nature to me. 

Q.   Is it genuinely second nature, though, because you don't play it so often on The European Tour, you're on the parkland courses and you come back to and you have to re‑learn what you used to do. 
TYRRELL HATTON:   Well, that's what practise rounds are for, aren't they.   Just work out how to play them again and carry on.

Q.   Are you confident about the way things are, not only this week, but you've had a good season. 
TYRRELL HATTON:   Yeah, the start of the year I was a little bit nervous to see how I would get on.   Obviously it's my first fuel full year.   And just having a good week in Abu Dhabi with sort of the guys that were there, world‑class field and to have a Top‑10 was great for confidence. 
So kind of proved to myself that I could probably play at this level, and I've been playing pretty good.   Just the putter's been a bit cold for the past few months apart from this week. 

Q.   And Joburg, as well, with the nice chance there, second place in the end? 
TYRRELL HATTON:   Yeah, I finished second but sadly missed out on The Open through World Ranking, but hopefully I'll do it this week. 

Q.   Is The Open very much on your mind?   I'm sure that's a stupid question. 
TYRRELL HATTON:   Yeah, a little bit at the back of my mind, but just got to play like I've been the last three days and hopefully we'll have a good finish tomorrow. 

Q.   Those performances in Abu Dhabi, Joburg and other places, are you getting that much more experienced and relaxed about a final round to come? 
TYRRELL HATTON:   I guess so.   I haven't had many final rounds where I've been in contention, so we'll see what the leaders finish on today and hopefully we're close.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT