THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 22, 2020
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Is the golf course playing that easy or did you play really well?
TYRRELL HATTON:   Obviously I played really nicely today.  Hit my irons so well and gave myself so many opportunities, which was nice.  I don't think I holed too many putts outside 12 feet.  It was just, yeah, just hit it really close today which was nice and hopefully I can take that into tomorrow.
Q. What's the golf course playing like out there today?
TYRRELL HATTON:   It's a bit warmer today so the ball is going a little further.  It's still quite tricky to judge the wind because it swirls all around the place.  But I imagine that there will be plenty of low scores again today.   Greens are pretty soft, so you can pretty much go straight at the pins.
Q. You come in this week in good position on the points list and your goal is to make it to Atlanta and an opportunity to win the FedExCup.  Does that add any pressure?
TYRRELL HATTON:   It doesn't add any pressure, no.  Just treat this week like any other tournament where we're just trying our best and hoping that you can have a good week.  I'm in a good position on the FedEx and I'd like to secure my spot in Atlanta.  I haven't made it to THE TOUR Championship yet, and hopefully that changes this year.
Q. 67 opening round, 71 yesterday.  Stats today say you drove it like a genius.  Was that the key to your round today?
TYRRELL HATTON:   Well, I think stats lie sometimes.  I actually played quite nicely yesterday.  Me and Mick were laughing; it's probably the unluckiest round of golf I've had in a very long time.  I looked at my stats and they were horrible yesterday and I actually felt like I played good.  Obviously today was great.  Give myself so many opportunities and my irons were probably the best they had been all year.  They were spot on today and thankfully I was able to take advantage.
Q. You birdied all four par 3s today?
TYRRELL HATTON:   I wish there was a twos club today, I'd be flying, wouldn't I.  I mean, I'm trying to think what the first par 3 was -- the third hole, a bit of a blur.
7-iron to probably about ten feet or something.
8 was a 5-iron to three feet, which was nice.   That's a tight pin today, so to hit that close is obviously really nice.
Again, 5-iron on 11 to 15-odd feet.  Holed the putt.
Grip-down 7-iron into 16.
Yeah it was nice to hit them close and obviously hole the putts to go with it.
Q. You just missed an eagle chance on 18 and just burned the lip.  I saw your reaction; I felt your pain.
TYRRELL HATTON:   I thought it was in halfway.  I'm like buzzing because it was just on a perfect line and then weirdly it kind of just almost looked like it went a hair left at the end when you feel like it should kind of keep going a little bit right.  You know, I'm not going to complain with 63 today.
With how low the scoring is, if it continues like it has done the last couple of days with the leaders, I feel like if you're outside four or five shots, you're really struggling.  You've got to shoot a really, really low number.  We saw some low numbers yesterday, which when I'm struggling around level par is quite daunting, but yeah, nice to go out and shoot a low one today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT