THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2020
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TYRRELL HATTON: Obviously just a bad swing on 18. Obviously it's a tough hole today. But overall, fairly happy with how I played. Maybe struggled a little bit on the greens there. They seemed a hell of a lot slower than what we were playing on last week, so yeah, we left a few putts short. But overall, this place hasn't been too kind to me in the past, so I'm fairly happy with that start today.
Q. How much practice have you actually done because of all the celebrating?
TYRRELL HATTON: You know, I've been practicing since Tuesday, so it was only Monday that we had off. I was a little bit tired on the practice days, but I felt fine out there today.
Q. Did you sweat more than usual? There wasn't any alcohol still to come out?
TYRRELL HATTON: No, no, I think I kind of regurgitated most of that on Sunday night.
Q. When did you hear about the plan for the rest of the week?
TYRRELL HATTON: I heard about it halfway through the round.
Q. Reaction? What are your thoughts about it?
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, it's not a decision that would have been taken lightly. Unfortunately that's -- the world is obviously not in a great place at the moment, so these things have to happen.
Q. You've had this sort of atmosphere before, with no spectators around, when you started your career?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, playing Jamega events and the first couple of days of EuroPro obviously don't get big crowds, but we were out there to do a job, as well, trying to play as well as we can, and it is what it is.
Q. 69, 3-under par. If you could take us through your round today.
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, I'm pretty happy with that start, to be honest. This place hasn't been too kind to me in the previous couple years. Yeah, just happy with how I played. Obviously 18 is a little bit disappointing, but it's a tough hole. Second shot is kind of straight into the wind, so it's playing pretty long, and it's easy to make mistakes.
Q. How are you feeling mentally and physically after a big win at the API and this being your first round back?
TYRRELL HATTON: I actually felt okay out there today. Had an early night, so I kind of tried to get as much sleep as possible. Monday was tough. That was a complete write-off. But I practiced Tuesday, Wednesday, and I did nine holes each day, so I've kind of gradually got a little bit more energy, and hopefully I should be good for the rest of the week.
Q. You must have been feeling pretty confident about your golf game. Can you talk about that a little bit?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously confidence is high after such a good week last week, but it's a new challenge here, and golf is a funny game how you can be on a high one week and then you can be really struggling. Obviously taking nothing for granted, and hopefully I can keep playing well.
Q. So tomorrow will be a little bit different, no fans, and for the rest of the weekend, as well. How do you feel about that, and if you could talk about that.
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, it's not a decision that's been taken lightly. It is unfortunate that that's where we're at right now. I guess we're all just hoping that this can kind of clear up as quickly as possible and we can get back to normality. But yeah, it's a shame where we're at.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT