THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2020
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH: We would like to welcome Tyrrell Hatton into the interview room. He is making his fourth career start at THE PLAYERS Championship, and he's coming off his first PGA TOUR victory last week at Arnold Palmer Invitational. Tyrrell, first of all, if we can get some comments on being back here at PLAYERS.   
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's obviously good to be back. Unfortunately it's a tournament that I haven't done too well at in the past, but I'm hoping that changes this week. Obviously nice week last week and a few days to recover before we get going tomorrow.   
JOHN BUSH: Talk a little bit about getting the win last week, extremely tough conditions there at Bay Hill. Just talk about finally stepping into the winner's circle on the TOUR.   
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously extremely tough week. You know what they say about the rough, that's where the four-leaf clovers are. So I was in there a lot and it was kind to me.   
JOHN BUSH: Let's go right into questions.   
 Q.  You said that you weren't sure you would be right until Wednesday with the celebrating that was planned. Was it all that you had hoped for, and what did you do exactly?  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, I'm still feeling -- I'm still quite tired, to be honest. But I was cuddling the toilet by 5:00 in the morning, so it was a good night.   
 Q.  And then just real quickly, I don't know how I can follow that, but so obviously that was extremely difficult golf. This place is known for being pretty difficult golf. What do you think a 12-handicapper would shoot in tournament conditions on this course?  
TYRELL HATTON: 12-handicapper. I don't think that they -- they wouldn't break 90. I think they would probably -- I would like to think they might break 100, but if the crowds are out there, there's a different type of pressure that they wouldn't normally be used to, so it would be a long day.   
 Q.  What was the celebration like on Sunday night? Who was there? Can you say how many glasses of red you had? But also probably more importantly, what's been the reception since your victory? What's the text messages and all that sort of stuff you received?  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, I've had a lot of messages, which has been really nice. The guys obviously out on TOUR, everyone's kind of stopped and said congratulations, which is nice. Sunday night celebration, there was a lot of red wine and then unfortunately I think the finisher was the drinking the vodka and tequila out of the bottle, which never kind of ends well. And, yeah, I fell victim of that, definitely.   
 Q.  Can you describe your emotions coming down the stretch last week?  
TYRELL HATTON: Just obviously a little bit nervous, like anyone would be, but I was just trying to do the best I could, try and -- the only bit I can control is obviously myself and try to not kind of make any mistakes. Although I was trying my best down 16 to make a few of those. No, just trying to keep calm. Obviously I've won in Europe before, so obviously I know I can get over the line and thankfully it just kind of worked out for me last week and it was my time.   
 Q.  Are there any text messages or congratulatory things that particularly meant something for you that you can share with us?  
TYRELL HATTON: Honestly, I've still got around a hundred unopened WhatsApp messages. The reception has been incredible, so it's just -- I just really appreciate the amount of people that have kind of messaged me to say well done, and I know for like my family and stuff, it was quite nail-biting to watch, it was difficult to watch, but yeah, I don't know.   
 Q.  Has the Ryder Cup captain been in touch, and is it too early to know how your schedule will alter because of this victory?  
TYRELL HATTON: Well, like I say, I've still got a hundred WhatsApp messages unopened, so I haven't -- I don't know exactly like who has messaged in that sense. But my schedule at the moment isn't, hasn't changed, that's something that me and my manager, Danny, we are yet to kind of sit down and talk about, but obviously I would like to be on the Ryder Cup team in September and I've had a good start to the points race again, which is nice, and hopefully I can kind of continue pushing on this year and make that team.   
 Q.  Can you please specify the surgery that you had and why you needed it, as well as why you think your body responded so well and so quickly to it?  
TYRELL HATTON: Well it was keyhole surgery in my right wrist, and the initial injury was back in 2017 when I fell over at the Masters during the par-3 tournament. It was canceled due to a storm that came through. I just slipped on the pine straw, and over time the wrist just got progressively worse with a build-up of kind of scar tissue and my range of movement was nonexistent and I just had basically a lot of pain kind of coming in to try and make contact with the golf ball, especially with the wedges because you naturally come into the ground a little bit steeper so there was more sort of, it was anything in that kind of movement that was uncomfortable. I had had three steroid injections in 18 months. They all lasted sort of pain-free between four and five-and-a-half months. But obviously that's not kind of sustainable to just keep having injections. So we decided that the time was to properly fix it would be to have surgery.   
The surgery obviously went well but the recovery time was much longer than we had all hoped for. I mean, initially we thought it would be four weeks and I would be back kind of hitting balls again. I was hoping to start my season in mid January, Abu Dhabi and Dubai, and I wasn't even hitting chip shots by then. So obviously these kind of things you can't rush, and Mexico was a great place for me to start my season because I was guaranteed a full tournament week. There's no pressure, no cut, you just kind of play and see how the body feels and it was absolutely fine. I had no issues, which is nice, because the first event back you're not quite sure how it could go.   
 Q.  You mentioned Sunday at Bay Hill that you were pretty nervous over that final putt, that your putter was shaking little bit. And I'm wondering, I know it's only been a few days, but what you have learned, what your takeaway has been, not only for your game but about yourself, given that tough test on the back nine Sunday that you'll be bringing to THE PLAYERS this week?  
TYRELL HATTON: Well I think throughout the whole week at Bay Hill I managed myself pretty well, which is always one of the hardest things for me. So that was obviously something that I would like to continue, and obviously I'm human so I'm going to make mistakes along the way, and yeah, there's probably going to be weeks where I'll have some blowups but hopefully that's kind of few and far between. So, yeah, hopefully I can kind of stay cool, and I've got my dad out with me this week, so to have him there to kind of get back on point with my swing, because playing in those kind of conditions where you're constantly trying to flight the ball and your weight's in a different place than it normally would be, it can kind of knock your swing out. So it's good to have my dad here, and hopefully we can have another good week here.   
 Q.  This may be because I'm American, but I've never seen your name spelled the way it is in the first name with two R's, and I was wondering if there's a story behind that at all and my apologies if you've been asked this three thousand times before.  
TYRELL HATTON: Well, it's my granddad's middle name is kind of where it comes from. My parents that play golf, they like the liked the film Caddyshack and obviously the guy was, I think was it Ty, I think, so that's how they kind of got my name. But in terms of the spelling, over here it would be normally Ty-rell, wouldn't it? But I ain't no Ty-rell, so yeah.   
 Q.  Why do you feel like you were able to learn from your past trips here to THE PLAYERS Championship that you feel like you can build on for this week?  
TYRELL HATTON: Well, this week's not normally been a good tournament for me. I actually had, I mean last year it was kind of typical me, where I was one shot away from like one shot outside the cut line with five holes to go and I had a blowup, snapped my 3-wood and basically started hitting shots on the run, and I think we missed the cut by five or something like that.   
So it kind of just goes back to making sure can I kind of control myself, and that's normally the first step to me having a decent week.   
 Q.  Gambling is becoming much more normalized in sports, especially golf now. I'm wondering if you're aware of your odds each week and if you're aware of your odds this week.  
TYRELL HATTON: To be honest, I have no idea with my odds in terms of golf tournaments. I don't mind putting bets on the football back home, but obviously we are -- we're not allowed to do any betting or anything like that in golf, and yeah, so sort of I've got no interest in that kind of thing. It makes no difference to how I go about my week, but I can tell you that I'm not very good at betting the on the football. I'm quite good at losing money each Saturday.   
 Q.  You said you were playing Xbox and drinking red wine during your time off. Do you have a particular go-to Xbox game?  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, Call of Duty. So I'm actually devastated that the new War Zone game's come out. It was released yesterday, and I'm not going to get to play it for another few weeks. So that's cut me deep.   
JOHN BUSH: Tyrrell, we appreciate your time. Congratulations once again on getting the win last week. Best of luck this week.   
TYRELL HATTON: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT