ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 6, 2020
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How magical was your short game today?  
TYRELL HATTON: Well, it needed to be today because I hit it into interesting spots. It's just not easy with how strong the wind is, but. I feel like I actually lost my swing quite a bit on the back nine. I just didn't have a clue where it was going. I was struggling with hitting it too far left. And just happy to get in the clubhouse with no damage done really.   
 Q.  A lot of guys on the PGA TOUR go about their business not knowing publicly what's going on outside and we wonder what's happening inside. You're the opposite. We know what's going on on the outside because you're always showing your emotions. What's it like inside when you're playing like that?  
TYRELL HATTON: I don't know. I just go out there and do my thing, try my best. You know where you stand with me, with how, generally, my round is going, although I feel like I was fairly calm out there today. But, yeah, certainly Friday is nothing to get excited about yet.   
 Q.  I'll tell you one place you were not calm. We showed you earlier in the telecast in the pool working on that wrist doing that little dance you were doing. We were joking that it was water aerobics. How important is it for you to get healthy again, like you are right now, and how much has that pool work helped you?  
TYRELL HATTON: Well, it's just, my trainer wanted me in the pool. Interesting dance there. I was just messing about. After yesterday's round he said a pool recovery session would be really good and he wanted to do some videos for Instagram. And instead of taking it seriously, I was just messing about. So I thought it would be funny to post it. But usually that's not our work out in the pool.   
 Q.  That's some nice playing out there. 7-under par through 36 holes. How was the golf course playing for you, really, this week so far?  
TYRELL HATTON: It's been pretty tough. Obviously the wind's picked up quite a bit and the greens are releasing quite a lot. So, yeah, it's a challenge. I honestly don't know how I've got to 7-under with how I played the back nine today. I was going on quite nicely with my, during my front nine and I feel like I just lost my swing a bit. So I'm really happy to get in the clubhouse with no damage done and looking forward to the weekend now.   
 Q.  You had three months off with the wrist injury and then you're kind of trying to get back into things. Has that had a little bit of affect on you?  
TYRELL HATTON: No, I don't think so. I think, obviously, Mexico was a great tournament for me to start out. I was guaranteed four rounds there. And that was interesting to see how my wrist kind of reacted to a full week's tournament golf, and it was absolutely fine. No pain out on the golf course, which is important. And I've been able to practice how I want to practice before coming here, and my swing's generally been in an all right place. It's just, I think I need to do a little bit of work tomorrow morning before coming out to the golf course to hopefully iron a few things out because I wasn't happy with how I felt on the back nine today.   
 Q.  It looked like once you got to the green you were very confident with your putter. What is it about these greens and your putting stroke right now that's giving you that confidence?  
TYRELL HATTON: Well, we actually found out on Wednesday that my putter was a degree and a half flat of where it should be. So my manager was up here and he got that adjusted. And I went and played nine holes Wednesday afternoon at Lake Nona and just kind of -- because even a small adjustment like that, the putter almost looks like it sits differently and just kind of got comfortable with it. And I've played well here in the past. I've actually putted very well on these greens and it's a nice feeling to have coming back when you feel comfortable and hopefully that continues over the weekend.   
 Q.  Some general thoughts on your round today, and obviously, being in the lead right now at 7-under through two rounds.  
TYRELL HATTON: Well, I'm kind of surprised with how I finished today with the, to break 70 when I feel like I lost my swing on the back nine, is obviously a good thing. And, yeah, I'm looking forward to the weekend, obviously in a great position, and just try my best and see what happens.   
 Q.  The wind today, did it take you a little while to get used to it because it was a different direction to start, right?  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, it was a different direction today. Some holes were playing a bit tougher and some holes were playing a bit easier. Obviously, it was nice to hit 9-iron into the 9th today rather than coming out of your boots on a 4-iron, which is what we had to do yesterday. So, yeah, it kind of swings in a round about way.   
 Q.  Did you leave some things out there that you know you can get better at tomorrow?  
TYRELL HATTON: Well, I hope my long game improves. I feel like I'm only leading the tournament at the moment thanks to my short game and how well I putted the last two days, so hopefully that continues over the weekend, but hopefully my long game improves with that.   
 Q.  With -- you said you kind of lost your shot on the back nine. Can you go into tonight with a little bit of confidence you'll probably be in the final group to start the weekend?  
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, I mean, there's a long way to go. Still 36 holes to play. So yeah, there's no guarantees on that front. Obviously, it's a nice position to be in going into the weekend, but I know I need to, I know my long game needs to be a hell of a lot better if I'm going to have a chance on Sunday.   
 Q.  Are you feeling any pressure right now going into the weekend?  
TYRELL HATTON: Not really, no. We're only halfway through the tournament, so there's a lot of golf still to be played. And yeah, we'll just see how we go.   
 Q.  Do you feel that pressure?  
TYRELL HATTON: I would say it just kind of comes with experience of playing tournament golf. This is my ninth, I think ninth year as a pro, so, yeah, we're only halfway through. So like I say, it's nothing to get excited about yet.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT