WGC MEXICO CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2020
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're in good shape, as you have been before on this golf course. You've been out since the DP World Championship, surgery happened. How nice is it to be back?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously it's good to be back out playing again. It's been a long time away, obviously with wrist surgery and stuff. Just kind of excited to be playing tournament golf again.   
 Q.  The chip on 6 for birdie, how satisfying was it to be this good around the greens?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, to be fair, I played this hole like an absolute dog. I was right off the tee, had to lay up left out of the bunker, horrific block with the 8-iron, and it just like sums up golf right there, doesn't it, a lucky chip-in and walk off with 4.   
 Q.  That is one way to look at it. When you look at what you've done around this golf course, you've got great memories here, had a third place, as well. How nice is it to come back to an event you have a great history at?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, this event has been pretty kind to me, although it's funny, this course requires a lot of patience, and that's something I definitely don't have at the best of times. But just kind of kept the ball in play the last two days, and the putter was a little bit better today. Hopefully that kind of continues over the weekend.   
 Q.  You did have the wrist surgery after the DP World. How is it feeling?  
TYRRELL HATTON: It's a lot better than it was. It's still not 100 percent. I still have quite a little twinge when I'm warming up, but when I'm out on the golf course, I don't really have the pain, which is great. Obviously the back end of last year, every club was uncomfortable, so I'm kind of glad that's behind me, and hopefully I can move forward and the wrist gets back to 100 percent.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
TYRRELL HATTON: That's a good stat. Yeah, it was a decent day today. I got lucky on occasions and holed some nice par putts, which kind of kept momentum going. But yeah, apart from that, I didn't really make too many mistakes, and kind of happy with how I've been playing the last two days.   
 Q.  What particularly pleases you the most about your play?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I'd say off the tee, I've actually been pretty good. I haven't really kind of been in too much trouble, so that's a positive around here. It's just quite fiddly, and you have to keep the ball in play, otherwise you're going to struggle.   
 Q.  How were conditions compared to yesterday?  
TYRRELL HATTON: There was less wind out there today. You can see the scoring is quite a bit lower. It was a little bit difficult, but yesterday I was like first off, so we had perfect greens on the front nine, and then today you're in the middle of the field, so they were a bit more bumpy, a little bit more inconsistent maybe. But it is what it is.   
 Q.  Erik shot 9-under; did you see that out there today?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I think it's quite a short golf course, or it plays short because of the altitude, so there's just so many chances out there if you're able to control the golf ball, and obviously he's done a very good job of that today, and hopefully I can do some of that over the weekend.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to the weekend? You've obviously played well here.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah. I think, what am I, six behind at the moment, so it's quite a long way back, but there's 36 holes of golf, so there's a long way to go. We'll give it our best and see what happens.   
 Q.  How did the wrist hold up?  
TYRRELL HATTON: It was fine again today. There was no pain out on the golf course, which is good. Similar to yesterday in the sense when I was warming up it was a little bit uncomfortable. That's just how it's going to be at the moment until it gets back to full strength. But as long as I can practice how I want to and be pretty much pain-free from 9-iron up, then that's kind of good enough for me to be able to come out here and play. The back end of last year I was in a lot of pain and had a pretty decent end to the year. The little twinge I have at the moment shouldn't stop me from playing well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT