TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 10, 2019
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A day that started with an injured wrist has indicated with your fourth European Tour win, your second in a Rolex Series Event, and after two years without winning, just how sweet is this moment?  
TYRRELL HATTON: It's so surreal. I mean, I actually can't believe that I've won. It's been quite a difficult year in terms of things happening off course, and you know, the last month, I feel like I really found my game again.   
And I said to a few people on my team that if I was lucky enough to win again, then I would definitely savor the moment, because I think it's quite easy to take it for granted, and you know, sport's great when it's going well, but when it's not going well, it kind of hits home, so I'm absolutely thrilled. Obviously amazing to have Mick on the bag and he's done a great job this week. I'm just so happy.   
 Q.  Playoff was not just for a marquis tournament, but 1.5 $6 million difference in prize money. Just describe what you were thinking, what you were feeling as that playoff was unfolding.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, look, you don't think about the money, at all. It's all pride.   
And yeah, obviously it's a bonus at the end of it after a great week, and I'm just so happy, I don't know what else to say.   
 Q.  How big was the adrenaline rush when you chipped in, because it had to go in, didn't it?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, Mick said, you know, obviously just chip it in. I was kind of getting in my own way with moaning about the little bit of mud on the -- from the fairway, and obviously it was just left in a dead spot. Mick said, "Yeah, chip it in."   
And I just kind of -- I went back to when I was a kid at Harleyford just chipping away, and you'd hole three in a row. That really focused me, and it came out perfect.   
Amazing that it went in and just so thankful that I've gone on to win the title.   
 Q.  Came into the week 48th in the World Rankings and you've moved up to around 30th, lovelily consolidation of that position. You're taking next week off, but going to DP World with a chance to be The European Tour's No. 1 player. How excited about the possibilities?  
TYRRELL HATTON: That's really exciting. I think I was well aware of my World Ranking coming into this week, and I knew that I wasn't going to play South Africa to rest my wrist. I just really wanted to have a good day today because I felt that if I played well, then that might secure the Masters.   
And again, that's another thing, you can't take that for granted. It's such an amazing tournament, and you know, I can't wait to get that Masters invite through the post again. It's a special feeling, and obviously just a bonus with what comes with doing well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT