TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 9, 2019
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on a 65?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Obviously very happy with that. I played really good start so far this week and it was good to score better than the previous days and I'm excited for the final round tomorrow.   
 Q.  What's been going really well for you this week?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Long game has been really solid. Had a blip in the middle of yesterday's round, but I've been swinging really good for the last movement obviously I've got some confidence from that and it's just a case of holing some putts, and if I do that, then I know a decent score is out there.   
 Q.  What needs to change tomorrow, just the putting?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Pretty much. That's the one thing I've kind of struggled with a little bit. Unfortunately I've actually gone back to the old putter -- not the same one. Obviously I've gone through a few editions of them but it's the same shape that I used when I won twice back in 2017 and got my first win the year before.   
Obviously I do have some good memories with that shape putter, and hopefully it can provide some magic tomorrow.   
 Q.  Obviously got awhile now till your tee time tomorrow. What will you get up to?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Just chill out. Go back to the room. Same as what I've done every other day. There's a nice truffle shot in the hotel, so I'll enjoy a few of them. Just chill out and go again tomorrow.   
 Q.  Did you have a number in your mind today?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Not really. Obviously you know you have to shoot really low. Obviously the course is there for the taking. It's quite soft. I guess the only thing is the greens are obviously quite bumpy, so it is tricky to hole putts in places. Obviously everyone's got to deal with that. So I'd say that will limit the scoring a little bit.   
Overall, I'm happy with where my game's at.   
 Q.  Have you felt a big performance coming?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I have, actually. Normally I'm quite a negative person but in the last sort of month, I've actually felt quite confident. I changed shafts in my irons which has been a big help. Gone to a completely new grip and it's been really good. It's the best I've played all year, and just the putter hasn't really been my friend, which in years gone by, it's been a strength. But it's definitely been the weakness this year for me.   
So obviously if I can keep giving myself chances, you're going to make a few occasionally and hopefully I can do that again.   
 Q.  So can we now describe you as the happy-go-lucky, light-and-fluffy Tyrrell Hatton?  
TYRRELL HATTON: No, never. I'll be the miserable, negative person, which is standard me, but I'll embrace it.   
 Q.  Do you ever think it holds you back, that if you take the edges off that a little bit, it might help?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, of course. There's times where I can't help myself, but that's just me. Obviously if I can keep myself as cool as I can be tomorrow, then I'll give myself the best chance possible and that's all I can ask for.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT