THE 148TH OPEN
July 19, 2019
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TYRRELL HATTON: I played some good golf pretty much all day.  And then, yeah, I made bogey on 14, where I didn't really do a whole lot wrong.  I missed the green right, but for my second shot the ball is above my feet, wind is off the right and you can't miss it left.  The ball has not been touched by the wind and I miss it right.  Tricky shot.  I make 5 there.
Missed a short one on the next for birdie.  And then it's a shame about 16.  Missed it, just leaked it a little bit on the wind.  Tried my best to move the ball, and couldn't move it.  It's pretty tough.  I don't think it's a good hole anyway.  And it's maybe a bit too harsh if you can't actually move the golf ball when you're more than 7 yards right of the edge of the green.
But it is what it is.
Q. How bad was the lie?
TYRRELL HATTON: It's pretty thick.  You can't take an unplayable because there's nowhere to go.  All of it's thick.  Unfortunately, I just had to -- you could get a bit lucky and be able to get it out, maybe no problem.  But the ball is so far below your feet as well, it's just tough.
So I had no choice but to just kind of hit and hope, really.
Q. How hard is it to stay calm through those final two holes and make sure it doesn't get worse?
TYRRELL HATTON: That's one of the toughest things for me.  I felt like I actually stayed pretty calm and composed.  I tried my best.  That's all I can do.  And it didn't come out.
So I was very happy to hole that putt.  It was about 15, 20 feet, which is not what you want to have for a double bogey.  But thankfully I holed that and then parred in.
Q. What club did you hit in on 16?
TYRRELL HATTON: It was a 3-iron.  So it was 230 yards, wind maybe a little bit in off the left side, which is a pretty tough wind, anyway.
But I don't think you walk off many holes or many par-3s at 230 yards and think that's a good hole.
Q. What sort of score do you think is out there?
TYRRELL HATTON: Conditions were pretty kind to us this morning.  So I imagine -- there's some guys at 5- or 6-under for the day, isn't there?  There's a score out there.  Whether or not the conditions change this afternoon, I don't know what the forecast actually is.
But for me, I'm in a fairly decent position after two days.  It's nice to be playing the weekend, which I haven't done too often in the Open.  So I look forward to that.  I know I'm playing some good golf so hopefully that continues this weekend.
Q. 16, was it on the right, was it two shots, because the ball didn't move?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah.  No, yeah, it didn't -- it moved maybe an inch each time.  Yeah, just didn't come out at all.  And I ended up hitting it harder and harder.  Yeah, it didn't come out.  I hit two of those that didn't come out in the third attempt, so my fourth shot was on to the green.
Q. Your issue with 16, is the rough too penal or close to the pin?
TYRRELL HATTON: The rough is pretty brutal around the whole golf course, to be honest.  Obviously the aim is to stay out of it.  Sadly I didn't do that and I got punished.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT