THE 148TH OPEN
July 18, 2019
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. On the first tee would you have taken that today?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, definitely.  Obviously it was a good day's work.  A little bit frustrating to drop a shot on the last.  But I was in between two shots on the tee and didn't do either, which is normally the case.  I felt the rain coming in and sort of rushed it a little bit, which was a mistake, unfortunately.
But apart from that it's been a really good day.
Q. What have you done so well today where others have clearly failed?
TYRRELL HATTON: That was the only time I was in the thick rough.  I've driven it pretty good all day.  I think I hit quite a few greens.  Although I wasn't hitting it too close, I was never making too many mistakes.  I think that allowed me to have a pretty solid score, and obviously picked up a couple of shots as well, which is nice.
Yeah, the game feels in a good place.
Q. How confident were you coming into that tournament that you were going to be in the mix?
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, my game felt like it was in a good place.  I had a nice finish last week at the Scottish Open.  But all you can do is try your best.  Obviously we all want to do as well as we can.  We'd like to win this week.  But you try your best and see how you get on, and obviously today it worked out for me.
Q. Is it fair to say it's bigger and better than any other Open because it's here?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's pretty special.  Fortunate I've been lucky enough to play -- this is my eighth Open.  So I've got a bit of experience there.  It kind of grows each year.
Q. Did the atmosphere help today?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I mean, obviously crowds here are great.  It's a shame about a few downpours at times.  It's more people getting their waterproofs on than watching the golf, which I don't blame them.  I'd be doing the same.
But, yeah, obviously it's nice to do well in the first round of a major.  Like I said, it's been a bit of a comedown after the Ryder Cup.  And it's fair to say that I have struggled so far this year.
But as I said earlier, my game feels like it's in a good place after a nice finish last week.  And hopefully I can keep playing well, and that will lift my spirits.
Q. A great community spirit here.  People are saying, Thanks for being here.  Have you experienced any of that?
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, it's got a great buzz around here.  Obviously we've gone out for dinner the last few nights and obviously it's packed.  And it's just a good atmosphere to be in.  And I think we're all enjoying the week.
Q. You've deliberately thrown yourself into all that.  Some might like some distance.
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, I'd like to say no one knows me anyway, so it's fine.  I'm not bothered like the big boys.
So, yeah, just go about my life and do what I want to do.
Q. On the weather point, that's just part of the Open, isn't it?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I think -- did the guys this morning, I don't think they had any rain.  It wasn't too bad.
But, yeah, it's part of the Open experience.  Some guys will get a tougher draw.  I mean, the only unfortunate thing today was when we did have a shower it wasn't on some of the tougher holes.  Like, if you had I think it's the 11th, that's pretty brutal.  If you're playing that in a downpour into wind, it's going to feel like a par 6.
So it's just a little bit of luck there that you play certain holes at the right time.  And I feel like I had that today, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT