THE SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SOFTBANK INVESTMENT ADVISERS
February 6, 2021
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  TYRRELL HATTON:   Overall pretty happy with that.  Feel like I putted pretty well today wheres other days, didn't really hole too much.  But yeah, that was the difference, really, today, even though the score was one shot better than round one or two, I just felt uncomfortable on the greens.
 Q. What kind of performance will it take tomorrow?
 TYRRELL HATTON:   Yeah, have to see what the guys finish their round on today.  I just need to go out there tomorrow and try and shoot as low as possible.  Try my best and see what happens.
 I'm pretty happy with that score today.  I felt pretty comfortable on the greens and felt like I was hitting the lines better today, and I feel like I haven't really done that the previous days.  I'll take confidence from that going into tomorrow.
 Q. When you stand on the first tee tomorrow, what will be your main objective?
 TYRRELL HATTON:   Just try to go out and put a good round of golf together, what we do every time we tee it up, and tomorrow is going to be no different.
 Q. What would you have thought was a great start to the year realistically, how are you thinking?
 TYRRELL HATTON:   Good start to the year, well, if you had said you'd finished Top-10 in the first three, I'd be pretty happy with that.  Obviously with The Ryder Cup points starting, it's kind of key to get off to a fast start and obviously Abu Dhabi was amazing.  Everyone's naturally a little bit rusty when you start the year.  So to nip a win is always a good start.
 Q. Literally means you're going to America with pressure off a little bit, knowing that you've already found your form.
 TYRRELL HATTON:   I guess so.  I mean, it's slightly different, PGA TOUR, got FedEx points to play for, so you want to start off pretty good there and kind of make sure that I'm in the Playoffs and so there's a different objective when we go out there.
 Q. To end these three weeks with such a significant rise in the ranking; three weeks in the Middle East is a marker for people.  Tommy went on to have a great year, Shane went on; so you have that history?
 TYRRELL HATTON:   Yeah, those guys obviously went on to great things that year, and obviously I'll try my best to keep that run going for that.  Just see how we go.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT