WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2019
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice round to start today.  Six birdies, a bogey on the card.  Your thoughts on how you played this opening round.
TYRELL HATTON: I'm very happy with my score.  Long game wasn't so good, I kind of struggled a little bit there, but I had the new putter to help me out.  So, yeah, it was nice to hole some putts again and hopefully that continues over the next three days.  I'm going to go hit a few balls now and just try and figure out -- I think I'm just struggling a little bit with ball position off the tee.  A few left, a few right, just kind of tinkering around out there.  So I'll try and get that sorted this afternoon and hopefully that will be a little bit more consistent over the next few days.
Q. Just 11 greens but the short game, six of seven scrambling, you had two sand saves out there, so not only the putting but the other part of the short game was good.
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, we got a little bit lucky out of one of the bunkers.  It was a fairly tough bunker, not much room and off a slight down slope, so it kind of carried into the pin and it stopped the ball from going about 25 feet past and ended up laying there about three feet away.  So sort of got away with one there, but I guess you need that sometimes, you need a little bit of luck and I guess I had that today.  But hopefully I'll play better the next few days and don't need so much luck.
Q. Do you like this type of environment?  You don't see this all the time on the TOUR.  There's a lot of folks out here, they're all having fun.  Do you enjoy it?
TYRELL HATTON: Yeah, I think it's great.  Obviously big crowds, good atmosphere.  It is my first time playing the Waste Management and it was a tournament I watched as a kid growing up and thought it looked like a crazy event.  But it will be interesting tomorrow afternoon as we got a bit of a late tee time, so I'm sure there will be a few drunk people out there and 16 will be pretty loud, but that's what makes this event fun.
Q. What was it like walking through the tunnel there on to the 16th tee?
TYRELL HATTON: Well, we were there pretty early this morning.  We played an afternoon round yesterday and that was, they had the music going and that was a good crowd there.  The atmosphere's just amazing around the last few holes and it certainly makes it exciting.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT