THE RYDER CUP
September 30, 2018
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Personal disappointment not winning your match today but being part of a winning Ryder Cup Team, describe the experience?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, like you said, on a personal note, it is disappointing to not help the team today.  But looking at the bigger picture, it's been an honor to be a part of this team.  Obviously it's a fantastic team.  We knew we were going against a very strong U.S. Team and it was going to be a tough week.   
So I'm absolutely delighted to obviously be on the winning team.  The guys have been absolutely fantastic this week, the team room and taking it through to the golf course.  It's very special to play a Ryder Cup and be on the winning side.   
 Q.  You've watched it on TV.  How did it compare?  What was the expectation and how did it compare to what you expected?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, I think anyone would say, it exceeds all expectations.  You speak to guys about it and the atmosphere, but until you're there inside the ropes and playing yourself, nothing comes close to it, not a major, nothing.   
So it's been absolutely incredible.  The support that you get, walking on to every green is so loud.  I absolutely love playing in front of the crowds, and yeah just delighted, really to win.   
 Q.  Players tell us that on every single shot in Ryder Cup, the adrenaline is coarsing through your veins.  Is that the case for you?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I guess so.  It was a little bit different today, obviously being out No. 10.  The crowd is more spread out, whereas when there's four matches in the morning, everyone is kind of close.  So the atmosphere is a little different, but still, the support we got this week was absolutely fantastic.   
 Q.  What was going through your mind early in the day when America were going strongly?  
TYRRELL HATTON: We knew they were going to be strong today.  They always are and it was going to be a tough day.  We knew it was far from over.  There was still a lot of golf to be played and we knew we had to play well.  So I'm very thankful to the guys that won their point today.  Sadly, I couldn't do it.  Although I actually feel like I played well enough to win three out of three.  Just didn't quite go my way on the greens sometimes.  But that's just how it goes.   
 Q.  Obviously it's a massive team effort.  You have five wonderful vice captains.  How did they help you this week?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, they have got so much experience between them.  It's fantastic having them around.  They certainly helped me with a few --   
 Q.  Gems of wisdom?  
TYRRELL HATTON: You can say.  Like I say, it was great having them around and just talking to them about a few things, and yeah, just getting some advice and trying to take that on to the golf course.   
 Q.  Players that play on their first Ryder Cup tell me they never want to miss one.  Will you be fighting really hard to make it to the States?  
SERGIO GARCIA: (Happily passing by ... kissing Tyrrell on the cheek).   
 Q.  Have you ever been kissed by Sergio?  
TYRRELL HATTON: That's a special moment.  So when I'm sat on sofa as a kid, I didn't think Sergio would kiss me one day; how lucky am I.   
 Q.  What about the senior players on this team, the guys that have been here a lot of times?  They have so much experience.  How valuable was that to you?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it was great.  To have Paul as my partner the first two days was brilliant.  Obviously he's a fantastic player, and he definitely kept us going in the matches.  He's so solid.  He doesn't really give anything away and that's what you have to do in match play.  I don't think -- we never lost -- we never dropped a shot in better-ball, so we were always par or better.  So that makes you pretty tough to beat.   
And yeah, so very special to partner with Paul.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT