DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2018
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Comments on your round today?
TYRRELL HATTON: Very happy with how today's round went.  8-under is obviously a good score anywhere.  And always nice to go bogey-free.  So hopefully I can keep that going over the next two days ago.  I'm pretty comfortable with my swing at the moment.  It's just a case if I can keep that feeling going.
Q. (No microphone.)
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, well, pretty much all my birdies have come from inside six feet this week.  So hopefully I can hole a few more putts from a longer distance when I do hit it outside, sort of ten, 12 feet, which is going to happen.  But, yeah, very happy with how today went.
Q. You were saying to the guys on TV that you are still using the putter that you purchased last week.  Obviously it's working well, even though you didn't hole a birdie putt?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I'm struggling with the pace of the greens a little bit.  Some greens feel quicker than others, for some reason.  Pace isn't something I normally struggle with.  So to go from kind of lagging it to then hitting it three, four foot past seems strange.  I don't know if they are slightly different in speeds or if I'm just out.
But the putter has been good.  I'm more comfortable with it.  Obviously I've got a bit of confidence with how I putted last Sunday.  So it's nice to see the ball go in.
Q. What putter are you using?
TYRRELL HATTON: It's a Ping putter, Sigma G Darby.
Q. Did I hear you bought it on your own or what happened?
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, it was bought on Saturday of after the round at Northern Trust.  Yeah (laughter).
Q. That story took off a little bit on Twitter.  What have you heard about it?  You put the receipt on Twitter, it was kind of funny.  Have you heard much about that story?
TYRRELL HATTON: Obviously it went down pretty well.  I think a lot of people don't understand that Tour trucks leave on Wednesdays.  So I didn't have a spare with me.  So it was just a case of I'd been kind of struggling with my putting for a few months, which is normally a strength of mine.  I think if you look at the stats in most weeks, I was at the bottom of putting, which is not normal for me.  So I needed a change and luckily it's worked.
Q. Can you walk me through the logistics a little bit?  Did you have somebody drive you?  Did you Google Golf World?  How did you find a place to go get one?
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, my caddie was in store buying it.  I was on What's App, a video, with him, because I was too embarrassed to go into the store to buy a putter.  Obviously he made a good choice.  But it's just one of those things, it's not obviously normal that this happens.  So, yeah --
Q. Do you remember the last time you paid for a piece of equipment out of your own pocket?
TYRRELL HATTON: Thankfully it's been a few years.  Maybe I need to start buying more stuff if it's going to work like that.
Q. Did he use his cash or your cash or did you reimburse him?
TYRRELL HATTON: Obviously I reimbursed him.  So it's just one of those things.  I obviously wasn't comfortable going in the store, like I said.  So he got it and -- yeah.
Q. What store was it?
TYRRELL HATTON: I think it was Golf Galaxy.
Q. Probably a good thing he bought a Ping putter?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yes, I don't think Ping would have been too impressed if I was using another manufacturer's putter and go and shoot 7-under on the final day.  So obviously it's in my contract I have to use a Ping putter, so there was never a doubt that we had to go find another Ping.  Luckily they had a few in store and luckily it's worked well.
Q. Your putting is a strength of your game.  How often do you switch putters?
TYRRELL HATTON: I've been using the same shape putter since 2016, Dunhill, which is October time.  It being a number of the same putter.  I think it was like the 6th or 7th edition of that putter.  But I generally stick to the same shape.  So this one I am using is very similar.  It just comes off slightly softer and there's an insert on it.  So it's obviously -- it's good on quick greens.  Might not be so good on slow greens.  We don't have to putt on slow greens so often.
Q. Do you have many putters?  Do you have many putters in the putt and chip woodshed?
TYRRELL HATTON: I would do, but I don't sort of take putters along if I'm not going to use them.  I don't have that many at home.  I've got a few being made at the moment, I'm excited to see them, sort of custom shapes that I've asked for.  They'll be arriving in the next week or two.  If I feel they'll be better I'll switch into that.  I haven't quite gotten attached to the one I'm using, but it's working well.  If I have a great weekend I might not be able to change.
Q. You are 71st in points.  How cognizant were you of that going into the week?
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, I wasn't worried about it -- I don't even think about it at all.  Obviously we're all here trying to play as well as we can each week.  Obviously some of us have got different situations, whether we're going to be there next week or not.  Obviously like you said I was right on the bubble, but it's not something that plays on your mind when you're going into the event.  I'm just hoping I can have a good week and go as far as possible.
Q. How encouraging is last week and this week, going forward?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it feels good.  I feel comfortable with my game.  If I can keep hitting fairways, I feel really comfortable with my irons at the moment.  And obviously if I'm making good iron shots and it's down to the putter.  If all of that continues to work well then all will be well.
Q. Can you give me a reason why three Englishmen are the top three right now?
TYRRELL HATTON: I have no idea, but it's obviously good.  Hopefully that continues over the last few days.
Q. Nothing about the course that swings in your direction?
TYRRELL HATTON: I don't think so.  Just standard golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT