DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2018
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A lot of up-and-downs for you in the round, double bogey, ricochet, wedged the ball almost into the cup on 18.  But in the end you're 12-under par.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it was a strange day, inconsistent day.  I didn't feel like -- I didn't have any good feelings out there and it was kind of just keep plugging away, trying not to do too much damage, and keep myself in it.  Obviously I managed to do that.  It was nice to finish with a birdie on 18.   
 Q.  I thought you struggled with tee balls for most of the round.  And after the drive on 12 I thought you found a little something and felt solid coming in?  
TYRRELL HATTON: No, I was really struggling, I couldn't get comfortable.  I was kind of tinkering on every tee shot trying to find something.  And wasn't doing that very successfully.  So after the double on 12, normally my head might fly off.  But for some reason I was quite chill.  I took it on the chin and carried on.  And I just kind of said to myself on the 13th tee, just do what feels comfortable.   
I tried to be comfortable at the start of the round, and wasn't quite hitting good shots, so that's when I started tinkering, which wasn't really working, either.  So I just went back to trying to be comfortable and hit the ball better coming in.   
 Q.  No trip to Golf Galaxy for a new driver tonight?  
TYRRELL HATTON: No.  I'm sure I will hit it better tomorrow, obviously.  I'll take some confidence on how I've played the last few.   
 Q.  Talk about what happened on 12.  
TYRRELL HATTON: On 12 we were -- I think 200 yards to the pin.  But trying to hook a 7-iron out of the tree and get it somewhere near the front of the green.  And we got flyer, which we didn't think the ball was going to jump.  So sadly that kind of sort of went straight right and landed on the cart path.  And then we weren't able to find it.  Just unfortunate.  Obviously there was a lot of people helping to look, which is great.  But sadly couldn't find it.   
I feel like I took it well.  In the past maybe my head would have properly come off, which is always a battle with me.  But I was pretty chilled out.  I took it on the chin.  Tried to feel comfortable on the 13th tee and just forget about what just happened.  And feel like I played the last six holes really well, to be honest.  Overall I'm happy with how I finished the round.   
 Q.  Does the fact that you're in the same position as you started today surprise you?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, but I felt pretty uncomfortable for the first 12 holes of the round.  I wasn't driving the ball very well, compared to yesterday where I was getting the balls in the fairway a lot.  Sadly that didn't happen today.  I'm hoping that's my bad round out of the way.  I can just go out there tomorrow and feel comfortable.   
 Q.  Did you feel more pressure because there were more guys as you went out late, there were low scores being posted did you feel like you had to go out and push?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Not really.  I was trying to just get comfortable.  I was focusing on myself.  I found myself 3-under through four, and hadn't really hit many good shots apart from I had two good shots on the second hole and that was kind of it.  It was weird to be sort of at that score so early with how I was hitting.  But it was unfortunate at 12.  But like I said today I wasn't that comfortable.  It was important that I didn't take myself out of the tournament.  I hung in there, which was good.  Only one back going into the final day, which is great.  Hopefully I can do well, and it would be amazing to win on the PGA Tour for the first time.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, I knew coming into the week that the average winning score was around 17.  And we'll see what the conditions are like tomorrow.  If they're fairly similar, for sure, scores will be fairly low again.  But all you can do is play what's in font of you.  If the scores are low and if I play well there's no reason I can't shoot a good score, as well.  I'll be trying my best, like any other day.  And hopefully it all works out.   
 Q.  Is there something about the difference in emotions from the chip in at 10 and 12?  Seemed like you kind of went on a bit of a roller coaster?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I think most rounds of golf for me are roller coasters, to be honest.  So, yeah, I mean 10 was a surprise, just hoping to get that close.  It's a bit of a bonus when it goes in.   
And then 12 is just one of those unfortunate things.  We're all human, we hit bad shots and we get kind of stressed at times.  10 I was lucky.  But overall it was just a tough day.  So I'm hoping things go my way tomorrow.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, I played that stretch okay so far.  I mean 12 is I guess a tough hole being a par 5 for the members.  It's a small green.  Especially if you go in and you've got 200 yards into the green, it's actually even smaller.  But I don't think it's a particularly sort of tough stretch.  Each hole sort of presents its own challenges that you've got to overcome.  But hopefully I do a better job of that tomorrow.   
 Q.  If you weren't comfortable at the beginning of the round, was there something that happened to get you that way?  What do you avoid tomorrow to get yourself off to a start, so not only score-wise you feel good, but your swing and your game feel good?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I think great warm up.  I didn't feel that good on the range.  So I didn't go out there with the same confidence as yesterday, for example.  I hit it really nicely before yesterday's round, which is good.  You feel like you get into a rhythm straight away.   
But today obviously it was just one of those days where it didn't quite click.  I played better at the end of the round.  I need a good warm up tomorrow.  Maybe I can have a decent night's sleep.  Have some good food and be ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
TYRRELL HATTON: For me -- I think that's always the hardest thing for me, if I can stay calm out there then generally I can have a good day.  So obviously it's a bit more pressure tomorrow because it's the final day.  We're all trying to win the golf tournament so that's adding pressure.  But I won tournaments on the European Tour, so I gained confidence from that.  But hopefully tomorrow I can give myself a chance to do that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT