U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2018
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon.  Next on the Flash podium is Tyrrell Hatton.  He's in our top ten today with a minus-1 69 for the day today and is plus 6 for the Championship.
Q. This is the second Open, first cut.  What do you take away from your performance here this week?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, well, obviously, I'm really happy with my performance this week.  This is a really tough golf course, so, you know, it's nice to find a bit of form again.
It's been a bit of a struggle for me recently, so I've had three missed cuts in a row, which isn't ideal.  To come in here and hopefully finish top ten is really good and hopefully that sets me up for a really good summer now.
Q. Seemed like the field was coming back at a certain time.  Did you ever feel, hey, I got a chance in this?
TYRRELL HATTON: If I'd made a few more putts, then, you know, it might have made it a bit more interesting.  But although I felt like I was playing really well and hitting good golf shots, I was always sort of in between numbers, where I just couldn't -- or in between clubs.  So I never had a real chance to hit it really close, I guess.
You're always sort of playing away a little bit from the dangers.  So unless you've got a perfect number, you can't really afford to go at it.  So it's just being sensible, and I had a lot of 20, 25-footers today.
On other days, you might roll them in, and then you've got a chance.  Obviously, today that didn't quite happen.  Like I said, I'm very happy with how I played.
Q. Were the weather conditions better than it was previous days?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I mean, it was still pretty tough.  Obviously, after yesterday, weather conditions got a little bit unfair in the afternoon.  It was always going to be south.  A little bit easier today.  I thought, honestly, it was going to be a bit softer.
To be honest, the back nine, the greens were baked out a little bit, but the pin positions were a lot more kind, so I guess good shots got rewarded.
Q. Now, looking forward to next week, what are you going to be working on?  Are you going to be at the BMW National?
TYRRELL HATTON: No, I've got a week off.  I've got a few days in New York with my girlfriend, which will be nice.  My next event will be the French Open.  I'll be back in Europe through the summer.  There's a good run of events there until the Open.
Like I said, hopefully this can kick me on for a good summer now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT