DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 17, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Understandably when you walk off 18, there will be some frustration, but overall 63, a sensational round of golf.  How do you reflect on that number?
TYRRELL HATTON: Obviously if you said at the start of the day I would shoot 9-under, I would be over the moon.  Pretty bitter pill to swallow on 18.  That hole seems to hate me.  Hopefully one day I'll actually play it well.
Overall, yeah, I'm really happy with today.  Obviously my head is a bit all over the place after 18.
Q. When you reflect tonight, how do you use that momentum now into the weekend?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it was nice to hole putts again.  That was a big thing today.  There was a little substitution with the putter from yesterday, so that seemed to work well.
You know, if I can keep putting like that for the rest of the tournament, then hopefully on Sunday, I'll give myself a good chance.  But I felt a lot better today.  Yesterday I was struggling with cramps in my back and a horrific blister on my foot.  It's just the blister now, so a spoonful of cement at dinner and I'll be all right tomorrow.
Q. We know the run of form, you had the back-to-back victories, and prior to that, there was wondering where you've gone, a run missed cuts.  Now you've come back to life, had that incredible run and your performance at the minute in Dubai.  What then clicked into action again?
TYRRELL HATTON: It's just getting back to doing the things that I know that work, worked with my dad back home, playing a bit more, seeing my dad for just regular checkups, rather than just beating balls on the range and trying to find something, which is what I was doing through summer.  You know, obviously that didn't work, and going back to what works for me.
Obviously having Jonathan on bag, good friend of mine since we were little, that's helped, as well.  We've made a good team the last sort of three months.  I think it's been three months we've been working together, and hopefully it continues.
Q. Impressive score card, eight birdies, an eagle, one bogey that came on 18, the par 5.  But still, way too many positives than the one negative on 18.  What's your biggest takeaway from this day?
TYRRELL HATTON: It was really nice to hole putts again.  I gave myself a lot of opportunities.  Holed out on the fifth hole from 144 yards.  That always helps.  Yeah, just got a bit of momentum there, and seeing putts drop, got the confidence back and posted a really low score.
Q. You've got two wins in October but around those two wins, quite a bit of consistency.  Now that you've posted this number and put yourself into the weekend, how do you draw on how great you're playing now and putting yourself in contention?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously it's been a good run of form recently.  Take confidence from the back-to-back wins.  You know, the game feels really good.  The only thing that's let me down recently, even though I finished Top-20 in my last three starts, I just haven't been holing putts.
Long game has been pretty good and I give myself chances, but when you're not really making anything, you can't build a score.  So that was really nice today to see some putts drop again and get the confidence back.
Disappointing on 18.  I was in-between clubs for the second shot and tried to take the shorter club and hit it harder and didn't make a great swing.  Then obviously you don't expect to be plugged in the face in a bunker like that.  So that was disappointing.  But you know, overall, played great.  Gave myself lots of chances.  Putted lovely and it's just nice to see some putts drop again.
Q. Eagles must be even more satisfying on a par 4.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, a grip-down 9-iron into 5.  I think we had about 144 yards just slightly into the wind and it pitched about two inches past the hole and I think just hopped back in.  I didn't see it drop; the second shot's uphill.  But nice to get a bit of momentum early on.
Q. Talking about momentum, that's something you've carried forward since your two wins recently.  Now you've played yourself right into contention for this trophy after a steady start yesterday.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, sort of struggled yesterday.  I was using a different putter, although it's the same sort of shape I've been using.  I think it was a slightly different weight and I wasn't comfortable with it, and along with my own body not feeling too great with my back cramping up.  It was sort of a long day yesterday.
Although I felt like I should have shot lower, it was just a bit of a struggle.  Today I felt a lot better.  My back felt a lot freer.  It's just the blisters I have to worry about now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT