NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 10, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Second round of 70.  How difficult was it out there on that course today?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I think it's difficult every day here.  Obviously it's quite windy today and that's always a challenge here, because the wind goes all over the place.  So it's quite hard to get the club right and obviously with that, getting the distance right.
It was a tough start, 2-over through eight, and nice eagle on 9.  Couple of birdies on 10,11 and just parred in.  Overall, very happy with today's score.
Q. A couple over through eight, 1-over for the championship at that stage.  You needed a spark.  How great was it get it and feed off it?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it was nice to make eagle on 9.  I genuinely thought my second shot was pitching in the grandstand about 50 yards over the fact.  Sometimes you just can't tell if it's long or short.  I was happy to see that land on the green and roll the putt in.
Haven't holed too many putts over the 36 holes.  It was sort of nice to see one drop, and followed that with 10 and 11, and holed a really good one on 18 for par.
Q. You mentioned not holing many putts.  Last week, we know you parted company with the putter in terms of the shaft snapping.  Did you replace the shaft or replace the putter?
TYRRELL HATTON: No, I didn't actually snap it.
Q. Oh, good.
TYRRELL HATTON: It was just bent.  It got sort of straightened out.  It's still got a slight between in it.  I used it on Sunday in Turkey, and I'm still using the same slightly-bent putter here.
But no, it's just -- obviously it's my fault.  Hopefully I can hole putts over the weekend.
Q. Obviously in a position in The Race to Dubai whereby my calculation, you need to finish third and then win next week, or some sort of combination like that.  Having won twice in a row earlier in the year, it's still on, isn't it; still possible?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, this week is going to be the biggest challenge for me.  I sort of struggled here last year, and I think mentally, you have to be quite strong around here.  Obviously I do struggle with sometimes, but if I can get through that this week, I'm pretty confident of having a good week next week.
Q. Won't be too many scores lower than 70 today.  Tough conditions out there?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's really tough.  Obviously it's quite windy today.  The wind swirls around so it's quite difficult to get club selection right.  Quite happy with my score today.
Q. Now nice to get the eagle and two birdies to follow?  Got the round going for you a little bit.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously when you have eagle, it always helps the score.  It was no different today.  It was nice to follow it in on 10 and 11 with birdies, and then it's just kind of grinding.  There's not too many opportunities, I don't think, especially the with wind today.  I was very happy to see that putt drop on 18 for par.
Q. I know you say you struggled around here last year, so you were keen to get in today.  Is this a golf course you can still enjoy?
TYRRELL HATTON: It depends how the round is going.  Obviously if you're swinging well, then you're going to score well I think.  I struggled here last year, and to be honest, I don't feel massively comfortable here.  So kind of just getting through this week and trying to play as well as I can, and sort of take some good feelings into next week, really.
Q. In the overall picture in The Race to Dubai, feasibly, you can still win.  You're in good form at the moment.  That obviously is playing part of the thinking process of the moment.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously I'm a long way behind, but if I can have a great weekend and then have a really good week next week, then I've potentially got a really small chance.  But it's not something I'm thinking about.  I'm just trying to play as well as I can and get as many World Ranking points as I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT