OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 25, 2018
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Happy with that?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yes, I guess you can't be too disappointed with 8-under.  Though I may have looked like it on that last green there.  Overall a good day and good start to the tournament.   
 Q.  It's a great score, but some guys say that you can shoot 8-under par and you can't be disappointed.  So do you feel as though you left a couple out there?  
TYRRELL HATTON: That's just me being me, always wanting to --   
 Q.  We like you.  
TYRRELL HATTON: I doubt it.   
 Q.  We do like you.  This is the way -- you wear your heart on your sleeve, and a lot of the people over the years have given you a little bit of grief but that's the way you are.  Do you work on improving or trying harder not to be so down on yourself, or are you just happy with it:  This is the way I'm going, I'm winning golf tournaments, see yous' all later.  
TYRRELL HATTON: I guess obviously I could improve on it slightly but it kind of depends what mood I wake up in in the morning I guess.   
 Q.  You've got the trophies, Tyrrell.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Occasionally.   
 Q.  You're going to play Ryder Cup.  You're making a fortune.  You're doing everything right.  Right.  Tomorrow, we've got some great players, Rory McIlroy, we've got the big hitters out there and you're a big hitter playing for tomorrow.  A little bit more wind, I believe.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Okay.  Well, I think we're out early tomorrow morning, so hopefully it will be a bit calmer.  But you know, just try and keep the momentum going, really.  If I can shoot another good score, then in a good position going into the weekend.  But we'll see how we go and try my best and see what happens.   
 Q.  You seemed frustrated coming off the 17th green, but essentially a great start to the tournament?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I wanted to -- I guess I always want to be better than I've shot.  But overall, it's a good start to the tournament.  I can't really complain with 8-under.  I certainly hold my fair share of putts.  But you know, obviously wanted to hole that one on the last.  It just slipped by but these things happen.  Overall, good start to the tournament.   
 Q.  Going bogey-free is obviously impressive, as well.  What did you do particularly well out there today?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I think I hit quite a lot of greens.  So I gave myself plenty of opportunities, which you need to do.  Putted pretty nicely.  I holed a few long ones and sort of keep some momentum going from time to time.  You know, hope to do more of the same tomorrow.   
 Q.  Can you feed off the previous two performances coming into this week?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I was just thinking the other day, I finished eighth and third last two times I played it.  I really like it here.  I always enjoy playing in Dubai; obviously DP World, as well, which is great.  So hopefully I can have another good finish this week.   
 Q.  Give us a sense of the conditions.  Was it conducive to low scoring?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, changed the course a little bit this year.  They made the greens smaller.  So you've got a little bit more room, if you do miss a green, there's a little bit more space before it runs off into the bunkers.  The bunkers are playing quite firm.  They don't get any spin out of them this year.  I guess slightly easier, and scoring shows that.  But still got to get the ball in the hole.   
 Q.  One off the lead as we stand.  What momentum can you take from that first round?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, this is the kind of week where scoring is going to be low, so you want to get off to a good start and keep that going.  Obviously if you get off to a slower start then it's hard to catch up.  But you know, I'm really happy with how I played today, no bogeys, and hopefully it's just more of the same, really.  That's the key.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT