ITALIAN OPEN
October 15, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BRIONY CARLYON: Congratulations, Tyrrell, wonderful to have you as The Italian Open Champion in the Rolex Series.
TYRRELL HATTON: Thank you.
BRIONY CARLYON: It must be an amazing feeling after that putt on 18.  Can you talk us through how delighted you are with victory in back-to-back weeks on The European Tour?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously it's an amazing feeling to win back-to-back.  You know, slightly different circumstances today where I had to come from behind.  I'm not sure how far back I was going into the back nine, but I knew I needed plenty of birdies.  Was very fortunate that I holed a few putts coming in.
Obviously a great putt on 18.  So I was very happy to see that one fall in.
BRIONY CARLYON: We spoke earlier this week, as well.  You've turned 26.  It must be a nice present for you to have the Rolex Series and the points to where it now pushes you to fifth in The Race to Dubai rankings.  Talk us through that, as well.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously the end goal is to get as high as possible up the World Rankings.  Obviously the last two weeks have helped a lot.
You know, to win a Rolex Series event is very special.  They are new for this season, and all the players are looking forward to playing in them.  I'm just happy that I could win one of them after a poor showing in them during the summer.
Q. Just a question about the Italian audience, and yesterday you went racing.  Did you like it?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I went around Monza racetrack yesterday evening, which was good fun.  Sadly I didn't get to drive one of the cars.  I was only a passenger.  But I'm quite into Formula I, so I know the racetrack well from obviously watching it on TV and playing the Formula I game on Xbox.  So I was quite excited to go around it myself, and it was good fun.
And the crowds, was it record crowds this week, I think?  Yeah, the support was amazing.  It was fantastic to see so many people.  Certainly brought a really good atmosphere to the event, and I think all the players really enjoyed playing in front of them.
BRIONY CARLYON: Talk us through then, as well, with The Ryder Cup points here, and that's pushed up into the lead for Europe.  Obviously Ryder Cup next year in France, but there's been a lot of talk in Italy about 2022 and what that will do for Italian golf.  Would you give us your thoughts on that?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, for any European to play -- well, the goal is to play a Ryder Cup.  I'm certainly no different from that.  Obviously The Ryder Cup is here in 2022, which will be amazing.  Obviously the support that we had today, that will only be magnified with The Ryder Cup.  It will be a special place to be, and you know, I'd love to be in the team then, as well, obviously.
You know, it will be great for Italian golf and hopefully for you guys, there will be an Italian player, as well.
BRIONY CARLYON: Congratulations on The Italian Open win and looking forward to seeing you back here to defend the title.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT