ITALIAN OPEN
October 15, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The run of birdies on the back nine set up that victory.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, they were so important.  I knew I needed a low score today, and front nine, it was pretty slow and sort of didn't really get any momentum.  I was fighting myself, trying to stay patient, and you know, J.B., my caddie, was saying, "Good things will come."
Although I found it hard to believe, I tried to stay patient as good as I can.  In the end, I guess I got my reward.
Q. Essential to be giving yourself those opportunities?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I gave myself a lot of opportunities.  I played really solid today, which is nice to carry the form over.  So you know, it's just amazing to win again.
Q. Belated birthday present?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, happy 26th birthday present for me.  It's amazing.
Q. Back-to-back on The European Tour, just sum that up.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's sort of crazy to think about.  Amazing to win one, but to win back-to-back and defend in two weeks is unbelievable.
Q. What does it mean to win such a big event on The European Tour?
TYRRELL HATTON: It's an amazing feeling.  I'd had a pretty poor run of events through some of the Rolex Series.  Just playing bad golf.  To end up lifting the trophy in one of them is an amazing feeling.
Q. And to beat such a strong field in such a good event in the Rolex Series, what can this do for the rest of the season for you?
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, it gives me a lot of confidence.  Obviously winning last week, game felt really good, and you know, just taking that into this week and playing well again and giving myself another chance was great.
You know, to pull it off, just so happy.
Q. Give us a sense of what these tournaments mean to The European Tour and to win an event as big as this?
TYRRELL HATTON: These are massive events for The European Tour.  They get such a good field and obviously so well supported with the crowd.  The crowds were amazing.  Yeah, it's very special to win one of the big events on The European Tour.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT