TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 1, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's been a fantastic few weeks for you, two weeks which have elevated you to fifth in The Race to Dubai and three Rolex Series in a row.  You must be looking forward to the end of season?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's obviously been a really good run for me recently.  Hopefully I can carry that form into the last three weeks and have a good end to the year.   
 Q.  You played here last year, tied 10th.  It was just that first round that cost you because over the weekend on Friday you played some pretty solid golf?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I couldn't actually remember where I finished last year.  But obviously tied tenth is a good week.  Like to improve on that this year.  We'll see how we get on.   
 Q.  What particular challenges does this golf course present?  
TYRRELL HATTON: You know, it's like most courses.  You need to hit the ball straight.  I think last year, a lot of guys didn't drop many shots.  If you're dropping shots, then obviously it's going to make it hard for yourself but there's plenty of opportunities.  I imagine scoring will be pretty low, and you though, certainly need the putter to be hot.   
 Q.  The Rolex Series so far this year have not been particularly kind to you but now you have a run of form going and it's a nice position for you to be in and playing with that bit of confidence.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, summer was a really bad run for me, but you go through phases like that I guess, and obviously come through the other side and start playing well again, which is nice.  Obviously it was amazing to win one of the Rolex Series, The Italian Open.   
So it would be nice to win another one before the end of the year.   
 Q.  Just finally, has this year exceeded things?  You had a great year last year.  Did you set yourself any targets based on that?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I mean, I always look back on each year and I want to do better than then.  Obviously I'm trying to do better than that, which I've had two wins this year.  Obviously through summer, it was looking like it was going to be a pretty disappointing year, although it started off really good at the start.   
So no, this year's been good, but I didn't really set myself any goals this year to be honest.   
 Q.  Consecutive wins for you at the Dunhill Links and then on to Italy, a week off, and last week 11th place at HSBC.  How did the game feel in China?  
TYRRELL HATTON: To be honest it didn't feel very good.  I had three days off for my week off and when I started again, it was like I had not swung a golf club for years.  It felt really weird.  I lost all the good feelings I did have, so I feel like I struggled quite a bit tee-to-green in China.  But my putter was really, really hot for three days, so it kind of kept me in it.   
Sunday was just a tough day and pretty much everyone struggled.  So scoring, it was kind of like scrambling, really, which I did a fairly good job of until 18.  But you have a bad hole every now and then.   
 Q.  1.5 million Euros behind Tommy Fleetwood in The Race to Dubai.  How excited to be in the mix with three big tournaments to come and still very much in this?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I still feel like it's a long way behind.  Obviously playing for a lot of points the next three weeks.  So you know, if I can get another two wins, I think I might be close but obviously that's a big ask.   
I'll certainly try my best to do that.  But hopefully I can do well and give it a go.   
 Q.  Would you be playing all three weeks if it weren't for the fact that you have a chance to win The Race to Dubai?  Because some guys have chose to take a week off.  
TYRRELL HATTON: I did all four last year and it sort of worked out where I played my best in Dubai.  I really like that week.  I feel like for me, if I keep playing, it sort of helps my game, and obviously just getting into competition mode.  I think hopefully that will help this year, as well.   
 Q.  You got off to a slow start at this tournament last year with a 72 in the first round but then bounced back to finish 10th with a 10-under par total.  What's the key do you think on this golf course to scoring well, outside of holing a few putts, which is obvious.  
TYRRELL HATTON: The par 5s are quite scorable.  So I think that's where you've got, off the top of my head, you've got four good opportunities there.  You know, it's key to playing them well all week and hopefully I can do that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT