ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sensational way to defend the trophy, doing it at the Old Course?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's an amazing feeling.  It was my first experience of defending this week, and I'm so happy that I managed to defend it.  It's just been a great week, and just so happy.
Q. You looked so in control all week long.
TYRRELL HATTON: It didn't feel so much in control today.  Although it was a really good round, you know, it was just -- I guess it all clicked into place this week.  I'm just so happy that I've won again.
You know, if you told me in the summer that I was going to win again before the end of the year, I probably wouldn't have believed you.  And you know, to make it happen, you know with, my friend on the bag, Jonathan, has been so special.
Q. And a word for Ross Fisher, because he kept you honest all the way around today?
TYRRELL HATTON: What a round of golf from Fish, new course record, Home of Golf.  It's pretty special and you know, he certainly pushed me the whole way.  Certainly made the last few holes more nerve-wracking than he needed to be.
Q. A final thought, this gives you a fantastic springboard for the rest of the season?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's so nice to win again, almost proves it wasn't like a fluke week, if you like to, do it again.  So you know, I'm really looking forward to the rest of the year, and you know, like I was saying at the start of the week, my game feels so much better now and hopefully I can take that into the end of the year.
Q. What does it mean to win this again?
TYRRELL HATTON: It's amazing.  I'm so happy.  Today felt like a tough day.  Although I scored really well, it's fairly nerve-wracking at the end.  Ross Fisher had a fantastic round and pushed me all the way.
Q. How much did that come to mind during the round?
TYRRELL HATTON: When they started taking all the leaderboards down until I got to the 16th green and you saw he was on 21, and then 17th tee shot isn't an ideal place to wait 15 minutes before you can tee off; it makes it seem even harder.  So you know, obviously that was in the back of my mind.  You know, fair play to him, a great day.  I'm so happy that I managed to get over the line.
Q. Obviously got to give some credit to Jamie Dornan.  Does he get a percentage?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's been awesome playing with Jamie again this year.  I think we get on really well, and he certainly helps me sort of stay relaxed.  We have a good time out there, which is what this tournament's about, and you know, it's just hopefully we can do it again next year.
Q. Massive springboard for the rest of the season?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's great to win again.  Obviously get a load of confidence from that.  So you know, hopefully I can take this form into the rest of the year and push on up The Race to Dubai.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT