ITALIAN OPEN
October 14, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Out in 31 including six birdies, tell us about that from your point of view?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Got on a really good run with the putter.  Helped me out a lot on the front nine.  I gave myself a lot of opportunities all day but front nine, sort of made the most of them.   
 Q.  What about the back nine?  Obviously a 2-putt birdie there but all the rest pars.  A sense of missed opportunity?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I think I 2-putted every hole on the back nine.  It was frustrating.  I hit poor putts on I think it was 15, 16, 17, and then a pretty poor putt on 18.  Just so annoying finishing after the front nine where I felt like I couldn't miss and then the back nine, felt like there's cling film over the hole.   
Yeah, frustrating back nine but I'm in a good position going into tomorrow.  So pretty good day.   
 Q.  Difficult going out there knowing you've got to shoot in the mid 60s just to stay in the mix, because you can't afford to trip up here at all on any day?  
TYRRELL HATTON: It's going to be like that tomorrow, as well.  Scoring is really low.  I've just got to go out there tomorrow.  Hopefully play well tee-to-green and just pick my lines on the greens and just hopefully they drop.   
You know, I know I can hole putts around here.  Obviously I did on the front nine today.  Just need to forget about the back nine really.   
 Q.  How special would it be to win two weeks in a row?  Give us your thoughts on that?  
TYRRELL HATTON: It would certainly be amazing.  I'll certainly try my best to do that.  You know, what will be, will be.   
 Q.  It's your birthday today and the Italians sank to you in English on the first tee.  
TYRRELL HATTON: That was pretty cool.  Nice little surprise.  Nice of them.   
 Q.  Celebration planned for this evening?  How will you spend it?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, I've got a drugs test now, that will be nice.   
 Q.  Then you're going racing?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Then I'm going racing and then sushi for dinner.   
 Q.  How hard did you have to battle out there today?  
TYRRELL HATTON: It felt like a battle on the back nine.  Played really nicely.  Played really nicely all day to be honest.  I holed quite a few putts from the front nine, and sadly, just couldn't sort of make the most of my opportunities on the back nine.   
So you know, a game of two halves on the greens, but in a good position going into tomorrow.   
 Q.  I feel a bit of frustration in you, but still a 65 puts you well in position to win this title.  How do you feel?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously I'm a little bit frustrated with how the back nine went.  Obviously 2-putting every hole isn't ideal.  Especially when you're chasing the leader, as well.   
But in a good position going into tomorrow.  I think I'm only two back at the moment.  Scoring is going to be low again, and, you know, if I can hole some putts again, then hopefully I'll be up there because my long game feels really good.  So it will be amazing to win back-to-back weeks.   
You know, I'll certainly try my best to do that, and that's all I can do.   
 Q.  You bogeyed the third hole, just tell us about that run, that fantastic run from the fourth on for the rest of the front nine.  And did that inspire you, making that bogey?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Obviously the bogey was frustrating.  I hit a poor tee shot on 3.  Just pulled it left.  And then just got on a good run with the putter.  You know, that was the key, really.  I gave myself opportunities all day.  You know, on the front nine, I took them, and the back nine, I didn't.  So it was just one of those days.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to the challenge tomorrow?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously it's a big challenge.  Two back at the moment.  So you know, it all depends what Matt does coming in today.   
I'm looking forward to it.  My game feels good.  If I can hole putts, then hopefully I'll be there.   
 Q.  Have you ever had happy birthday sung to you on the golf course and what's the plan for the rest of your birthday today?  
TYRRELL HATTON: No, I haven't.  So that was a nice little surprise walking to the first tee.  I've got a drugs test now and then I'm going on to the racetrack and that should be good fun and then sushi for dinner.  Should be a good evening.   
 Q.  An early night?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Probably not because I might actually get some sleep then.  I'll try and stay up tonight.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT