ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Conditions fairly helpful but it's still Carnoustie, isn't it?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, happy with today's round.  Got lucky a couple of times, but obviously you need that.  The putter come alive for me on I think it was the last sort of 13 holes.  Really good day and very happy.
Q. Where did you get lucky then?
TYRRELL HATTON: I got really lucky on 10.  Pushed my 9-iron.  I had an awesome bounce left and just missed the edge of the bunker and rolled to about six or seven feet.  Didn't hole the putt but nice little bounce there.  A couple of really good par saves, which was 12.  Hit a terrible tee shot into the gorse.  I had to take an unplayable, and I had fat-toed my 3-wood about 70 yards short of the green.  Hit it up to about ten foot and holed the putt.  Just little things like that; you keep the momentum going, and fortunately, I was able to do that today.
Q. The fact that you won this event last year, does that sort of inspire you, as well?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I guess so.  It's a strange feeling to think I've won the tournament, because when I look back, it doesn't feel like it was me that won.
Obviously it's great to be back and good memories from last year.  I've come into this event with a bit of form.  I'm happy that I'm sort of carrying it on.  And you know, hopefully can have a good one at Kingsbarns tomorrow, and all to play for for Sunday.  But there's still a lot of golf still to be played.
Q. When you score as well as you did here at Carnoustie, does that leave you with the feeling that you've actually made up more ground on two-thirds of the field, because this is regarded as the toughest of the three.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it is the toughest, but I was very lucky today, was most of the guys that have played here today.  It wasn't as tough as it can be, and I'm thankful for that.  Obviously yesterday was a really tough day at St. Andrews, especially the front nine.
I certainly wouldn't have enjoyed playing Carnoustie in that wind, that's for sure.  It is what it is.  You can only play what's in front of you.  I was very fortunate today.  Hopefully I can take that into the weekend.
Q. A big opportunity because Kingsbarns is regarded as the easiest of the three, tomorrow, to capitalise.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I guess so.  Personally, I've never scored the best on Kingsbarns.  It's always been out of the three that I've probably scored the worst.  I'm hoping that run doesn't continue tomorrow but obviously I've shot 4-under and 7-under, so if I did shoot worse than the other two days, it's not going to be too much of a disaster.
I'll go out there tomorrow and hopefully the conditions are good again, and if I play like I have been, there's no reason why I can't shoot a good one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT