BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
September 28, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was it for you?
TYRRELL HATTON: It was a really good day.  I played lovely out there and gave myself plenty of chances.  Managed to convert a few at the end.  Obviously need a bit of luck in the afternoon.  I'm looking forward to putting on the greens tomorrow morning when they are a little bit fresher.  Hopefully I can keep the form going with my swing and post another good number.
I hit a lot of good iron shots today, and it's nice to feel comfortable in my swing again.  Obviously I had a really bad summer, which is frustrating.  But you're going to go through these phases.  Golf's hard and I'm happy with where I'm at now.
Q. A fun reaction to your putt on 13.
TYRRELL HATTON: I've hit an all-right putt and it's just bobbled quite frequently and you know, you don't know if it's going to go in or not, and it just had a bobble at the right time and snuck in.
So it's very interesting this afternoon.
Q. Only one bogey today but you got it back quickly on the next hole?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it was a good bounce-back.  Obviously 3-putted, was it 11, and to be honest, I thought the pin was a bit dodgy there.  It was on the side of a slope.  Then just get the wrong bobble and you miss.  Just one of those things.
Overall, I'm really happy with how I fought back and posted a good score.
Q. And the last hole?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's not the easiest par 3.  I think it was 225 yards today.  It's quite a long way.  Hit a lovely 5-iron and hit a good putt.  It will make dinner taste a bit better tonight.
Through summer, I had too many opinions and just got on a bad run, and my putter was really cold through summer, as well.  You know, if you are not holing putts and you hit a few bad shots, and you feel like you can't score any worse, that's just the phase that I went through.  I think most golfers will go through that.  It's just how it is.  But no, my swing feels good now.  I've got a friend on the bag and you know, we started in Switzerland and we're just trying to have a bit fun out there.
I certainly feel a bit more relaxed.  Obviously playing better helps.  So overall, it's good.
Q. When you say too many opinions, was that you sort of trying to get anyone and everyone to tell you what you thought was going wrong?
TYRRELL HATTON: No, it's just I'm not a technical person, and there was a few numbers being thrown around which I don't want to know about.  Just things weren't clicking.
Q. Was it the old caddie --
TYRRELL HATTON: No, not at all.
Q. Not your dad, was it?
TYRRELL HATTON: No, definitely not my dad (laughter).  I think you go through phases, if you're trying to find something when you're not playing your best; I think everyone does that.  That's just a phase that I went through and I feel like I'm sort of through that, and hopefully I can have a good end to the year now.
Q. What's the name of your friend?
TYRRELL HATTON: The guy on the bag, Jonathan, I've known him since I was about seven years old.  We used to play junior events together.  He's a pro himself.  He wanted to play Euro Pro this year but didn't have the funding, unfortunately.
He's been working part-time, so when I asked him to come on the bag for Switzerland, he was quite happy to do that.  Obviously we had a great week, so hopefully he's going to carry on till the end of the year.  Hopefully we can have a few more good results and it will give him a good platform for next year when he's going to play himself.
Q. After the great run you had, how panicky did you get?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously I was on a really good run, and it was nice when things are going well.  I guess you're always going to have a bit of a phase where things don't go well, and unfortunately that happened for me through summer.
At the time it was frustrating.  I'm trying my best and things just aren't going right.  You know, unfortunately there's nothing more you can do sometimes.  Just things aren't going your way, but like I said, I'm more comfortable with my swing now.  I feel happy and I think that will result in some good finishes.
Q. What's his name?
TYRRELL HATTON: Jonathan Bell.  He's going to stay on the bag till the end of the year, Dubai, and like I said, he wanted to play himself, which anyone who turns pro does.  So that's what he'll do.  But for the meantime, we're just enjoying it.  He'll be playing Euro Pro next year.
Q. Third in Switzerland, a good result here; you'll be doing him a big favour.
TYRRELL HATTON: We're working well out there, and you know, like I said, if I can play well, obviously it's going to help him for next year, but the main thing is, you know, just try and have a bit of fun.  Like I said, we've been good friends since we were seven, and so that certainly helps.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT