BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
September 29, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does it feel to backup a 63 with a 65 in very testing conditions?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, conditions weren't easy this morning, obviously with the rain coming down.  Made it quite difficult.   
I'm happy with my morning's work.  Obviously in a good position at the moment.  But there's nothing stopping the guys going out this afternoon and posting some low scores.  So overall, very happy.   
 Q.  How much of a test was it for your caddie because he's relatively inexperienced in that role?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, he said that it's hard when it stops raining, which it is for the caddies.  They have to work really hard, and you know, he did a good job.   
 Q.  I mean, it does -- it's vital for you guys, isn't it, that that happens?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, you know, they have got an important job.  They are good at what they do, and Jonathan's first sort of experience of that today.  He did a good job.   
 Q.  How important has he been in the last sort of few weeks where things have turned around nicely for you?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's just try and have a bit of fun out there.  I feel like I've been sort of laughing a bit more, a bit more relaxed.  I certainly think he's helped me do that.  But I think playing better certainly helps, as well.  So we had a good result in Switzerland and hopefully we can have another good one here.   
 Q.  I know you love your video games.  What's a more exciting prospect:  Potentially leading being right up there going into the weekend or the arrival of a new football game?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I'm absolute devastated I can't play.  It's come out today, isn't it?  It's just as well I'm away for another few weeks.  Otherwise I'd probably waste 12 hours a day on it.  I'm looking forward to getting home and playing that.  But at the same time, I'm really looking forward to the weekend ahead.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT