WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us what happened.  You there was an incident on the green.  You were in a playoff with Rafa and Charl, just through your eyes tell us what happened.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yes, I obviously missed the putt.  And as I stood up just to putt, as I went to stand behind the ball I knocked it a centimeter forward.  Yeah.  Beautiful.
Q. So you actually touched the ball or you touched the ground?
TYRRELL HATTON: No, I touched the ball, as I'm just putting the putter down, I just clipped the back of the ball and it just nudged it forward.  Straight away you have to pull a penalty on yourself.  Obviously a disappointing day for me to lose this morning, and have a great chance to go through to the last 16.  I missed another putt left.
Q. You know golf, it's very fickle.  Sometimes you're floating on air, and it's easy.  Sometimes things like this happen.  But somewhere down the line you might learn from this and it might be the difference between you and a major?
TYRRELL HATTON: Possibly, maybe, it's karma for me, all the hate the previous two days from the golf course.  It's a tough pill to swallow.
Q. You think you beat yourself up a bit?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, without a doubt.  I'm going to make mistakes, as I've done today.  And I've just got to try to pick myself back up and hopefully I can have a good week at Masters.
Q. Let's talk about Augusta.  That's going to be some experience.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, gives you something to smile about.  Yeah, I can't wait for that.  I'm getting up there next Sunday.
Q. You'll forget about this now.  Trust me, once you start the journey to Augusta, Georgia, this will be so far in the back of your mind you won't even think about it.
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I'm going to be leaving this place tonight, so I'll be leaving in a hurry.
Q. It's a tough break.  Tell us what happened?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, as I was addressing the ball to tap the par-putt in I just hit the back of the ball and knocked it forward barely a centimeter.  And then I put a penalty on myself.
Q. Frustrating, isn't it, because there were some really good moments this week for you?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yes, it's probably the worst way it could have ended.  It's just one of those things.  The referee said did I replace the ball, because if I'd replaced it then I wouldn't have gotten the penalty, but obviously by then it was too late and I'd knocked the putt in.
Pretty disappointing, I had probably the easiest putt that you could today through into the last 16 and hit another bad putt.
Q. Leaving Austin fairly soon, looking forward to the Masters.  What's your thoughts on that?
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, leaving Austin today.  I can't wait for the Masters, it will be such a special week for me and my family.  Getting there Sunday next week and looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT