BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Describe some of your earliest memories coming to the BMW PGA Championship.  
TYRRELL HATTON: My earliest memory I think is when Vijay Singh nearly hit me on 18 after blocking it right.  Luckily he didn't hit me.   
 Q.  Where does this rank in terms of tournaments that are important to you?  You play a global schedule now on The European Tour and PGA TOUR.  Where does this one fit?  
TYRRELL HATTON: This is my favourite event of the year.  It's close to home.  Stay at home this week.  I have my family here.  Because I've been coming here since I was a five-year-old, it's special to now play the tournament.   
 Q.  At age 25, how are you able to balance playing a global schedule?  What have you leaned on in terms of maybe a mentor to tell you, because it's not easy for everyone to do?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Obviously this is my first year of trying to do it.  I've enjoyed it so far.  I really enjoyed my time out in the States.  It went quite well.  I've obviously spoken to a few guys about it, and you know, it's good to have the opportunity to do both.   
 Q.  A little unfortunate on the back nine and almost a hole-in-one.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, got close on 14.  It was nice to hit a few nice iron shots coming in.  I felt like I struggled a little bit the first sort of 12 holes.  So hopefully I can take that into tomorrow with a bit of confidence knowing that I finished the round off quite well.   
 Q.  A lot's been said about the changes that have been made here at Wentworth.  How have you found those today?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, I think they are great.  The most important thing is the putting surfaces.  They are rolling a lot better, which is only a good thing.   
 Q.  Two Top-10s already this year, so you've made a positive start to the year.  But can you put it into words what it would mean to win this type of tournament on home soil?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously it would be -- if I could choose any event to win, it would be probably this one, just because how much it means to me.  I gave myself a good opportunity last year, and I think my inexperience came through in the final round.  But hopefully if I get into that position again this year, then I'll do a better job.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT