THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 25, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your first PGA TOUR event in the States this year, we would have given you three rounds in the 60s to start, I think you would have taken that is this?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, definitely.  My game didn't feel that freight on Monday.  Felt like I had never swung a golf club before.  I'm really happy with the position I'm in.  Like you said, three rounds in the 60s is great and hopefully I can add to that tomorrow.   
Is it strange coming to new golf courses that you haven't played before that you don't really have any history on like you do on a lot of the courses on The European Tour?   
TYRRELL HATTON: It is what it is.  It's just a round of golf.  You just try your best and some days it goes well, other days it doesn't.  I'm enjoying the course this week and hopefully have another good day tomorrow.   
 Q.  What have the greens been like for you this week?  
TYRRELL HATTON: The greens are perfect.  They are running at a really nice speed.   
 Q.  Got off to a good start.  Let's take a look at one of the birdies on the back nine, the eighth?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I hit a full gap wedge here.  Had 137 yards straight downwind, so it was the perfect gap wedge.  I missed a short putt on the previous green, so I was quite happy to see that one go in.   
 Q.  And you got to the back nine, nice run of birdies there.  Let's take a look at this putt at the 12th.  
TYRRELL HATTON: I read this putt pretty straight and there was a spike mark about six inches short, and it was on the right lip and I was like, if it hits left, it goes in; and if it goes straight over, it's in; and if it goes right, it's going to miss.  And thankfully it went straight over and just caught the right edge and went in.   
 Q.  You said the bermudarough, it's new to you and you never know how it's going to come out?  
TYRRELL HATTON: It frustrates me so much.  It's so inconsistent.  Hopefully I can hit 18 greens tomorrow.   
 Q.  Lastly, 800 in the world, five, six years ago.  Now you're on the leaderboard.  You look really, really comfortable.  Tell us what the game plan is going into tomorrow.  
TYRRELL HATTON: As it has been, these three days, just try and play my best and see what happens.  That's all I can do, and hopefully I can do that tomorrow.   
 Q.  What was going right for you today?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, it was a mixture of things.  I gave myself quite a few opportunities.  I was holing a few putts, missed a few, and then putter got hot on the back nine and holed a couple of nice putts.  So I'm pretty happy with that and hopefully I can have a good day tomorrow.   
 Q.  You haven't played a whole lot over here in the US.  How have you found the golf over here this week?  
TYRRELL HATTON: It's been good.  I really like the pace of the greens.  I struggled actually yesterday.  Thought they were slower than Thursday.  But it's great to be out here, big atmosphere and good crowds which is good fun to play in.  Looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  How different was the golf course today compared to the last couple days?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Thursday and today played pretty similar, sort of the same wind direction.  Yesterday was a little bit tougher.  It was opposite wind direction.  So I'd prefer the golf course, how it played today on Thursday, and hopefully it will do the same tomorrow.   
 Q.  Your first time back in Florida since 2012?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it is.   
 Q.  How many people were watching you back then play in this tournament?  
TYRRELL HATTON: No one.   
 Q.  Excited about what tomorrow may bring?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, definitely, in pretty good position, depending what Rickie Fowler does the last few holes.   But all I can do is sort of focus on my game and hopefully I can go out there tomorrow and play well.   
 Q.  You seem to have struggled a bit with chipping out of the bermudarough.  I saw a couple times, you got upset about the result.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Just it frustrates me a little bit.  I find it really inconsistent.  Sometimes it will come out soft and go like three feet in front of you, and you haven't sort of made a bad swing, kind of thing.   
The next one, you do exactly the same and it will come out hot and goes like 15 feet past the hole.  So it's just maybe I'm not used to it but at the moment it frustrates me a little bit.   
 Q.  How much have you played on bermuda?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Not at all.  But I think it's a mixture of two grasses here in the rough and again that makes it quite difficult.  But hopefully tomorrow I can hit 18 greens.   
 Q.  What were your expectations coming into the week?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I didn't really set myself any goals.  I don't really set myself goals most weeks.  Just go out there and try and play as well as I can.  See what happens.   
 Q.  What do you see as the biggest strength of your game?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I think generally I drive the ball really well.  Normally my short game is the best of my game, so if my irons quite on, I get up-and-down quite a lot.   
Like I said, I've been struggling a little bit with missing greens this week, and with the rough, but overall, my game is pretty solid.   
 Q.  Have you ever played any with Fowler?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, we played on Saturday at The Open Championship.  That was good fun. He's a really nice guy.  I don't know if I'll be playing with him tomorrow, but if I am, I'll look forward to that and hopefully I can play well.   
 Q.  From the Dunhill Links last October, do you think you were playing better then or now?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I feel I was probably playing better then.  I mean, at the start of this week, didn't feel very comfortable with my game.  If you've seen me hit balls on the range this week, you probably wouldn't believe where I am in the tournament.  I don't really enjoy the range too much.  I'd much rather play.   
 Q.  Excited about tomorrow, playing in the final pairing with Rickie Fowler?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I don't know if I am in the final pairing yet, but if I am, it's something I'm looking forward to and hopefully I'll have a good day.   
 Q.  You continue to get better each and every day at the Honda.  How pleased are with you Saturday's effort?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, obviously really happy with that.  Putted quite nicely on the back nine and tried to unravel some good work on 17, 18.  But overall, really happy with the day and looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  A sponsor's invite, first start in the States this year.  What are the adjustments you have to make when you come over to the US?  
TYRRELL HATTON: I don't try and make any adjustments.  It's another golf tournament, and all you can do is try your best and play well.  That's what I try and do every week.  It's a new course for me.  I played 27 holes on Monday and Tuesday, and my caddie has done enough homework.  So we know what to do.  Hopefully I'll just play well.   
 Q.  18th in the World Ranking, what has come together for you over the past couple years to now be one of the best players in the world?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, just the consistency for me in the last eight months has been really good.  Hopefully I can continue to play well and climb even higher.   
 Q.  An opportunity to win tomorrow in the PGA TOUR, what are you most looking forward to?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, I'm just going to go out there tomorrow and like I said try and play as well as I can.  Whatever happens, happens.   I can only control what I do and just have to see how it goes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT