ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2017
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your last tournament, the DP World championship in Dubai, finished second.  How did you stay competitively so sharp in that two-month period?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Well, to be honest, I didn't do a whole lot of pack.  I spent most of my time playing Xbox and chilling out at home to be perfectly honest.  So a little bit of a surprise to see where I'm at this week, but very happy with one round to go.   
 Q.  McIlroy was on the board that week and so was Stenson.  How does that empower you going into tomorrow?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Obviously big names are up there, so I've just got to focus on my game and try and play as well as I can.  I love this place.  It's one of my favourite events of the year, so hopefully I can go out there tomorrow and have a good day.   
 Q.  Those Top-10s in the last two majors, T-5 at The Open, T-10 at the PGA Championship.  What does that give you going into tomorrow?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, just a lot of confidence and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  You look a little surprised at your position on the leaderboard.  Why is that?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Just with the preparation that I had coming into this event.  Expected to be pretty rusty coming in.  But I'm really happy with this obviously and looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Your round today, your thoughts?  
TYRRELL HATTON: A little bit of a slow start.  Struggled a little bit on the greens today.   Just not quite starting the ball on the lines I wanted to.  But I holed a couple good putts in the end on the back nine, and hopefully that will give me some momentum going into tomorrow.   
 Q.  You had a nice little run from 11.  Tell us about that.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, hit a lovely shot into 11.  Was just a grip-down gap wedge in there and that was nice and close, and I holed a couple good putts on 13 and 14.  That give me a bit of confidence and then holed a good putt there on the last.   
 Q.  It's a packed leaderboard.  Your thoughts on tomorrow?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it should be an exciting finish, the first event of The Desert Swing.  Hopefully I can have a good day and stay on top.   
 Q.  68 for you today, how does that sound?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, very happy with that.  Got off to bit of a slow start but holed a couple of putts on the back nine which is nice.  I'm very happy with the day's work.   
 Q.  Winner of the Dunhill Links Championship, a great win, you blew the field away.  How much confidence have you got now and how much have you built more confidence after that victory?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it gives me a lot of confidence.  It's nice to get my first win at such a special place.  You know, take that confidence going into tomorrow and hopefully I can have a good day.   
 Q.  Looks like you're going to be playing with the U.S. Open Champion, the big bomber, Dustin Johnson.  How much are you going to look forward to that?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Should be good fun.  I'm sure I'll be hitting in first, that's for sure.  It's great to play with the big names.  I played with Stenson today which is pretty cool.  Looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  A great year last year.  Over Christmas, what did you do with all the coin?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Played a lot of Xbox.  That's the thing I do when I'm home.  I just chill out and play a lot of Xbox.  So nothing exciting.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT