DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 20, 2016
Tyrrell Hatton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TYRRELL HATTON: Obviously it's a bitter pill to swallow, but it's been a great week and for me it's been the best year of my life.  So I can't get too downbeat, but these things happen.  You know, it is what it is and I'm happy with how the week went.  I'm sure hopefully in the future, I'll take my next chance.   
 Q.  You certainly will, but across the course of today, indeed the week, there have been some fantastic golf, wasn't there?  I presume you found it fun to be up there in that challenge like that.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it was nice to be up there.  You know, my putter helped me out a lot this week.  I felt I played better tee-to-green the other previous weeks.  Just this week I putted well and that's what it boils down to.  It was nice to be up there again and I'm looking forward to some time off now before the start of the new season.   
 Q.  And can you brush off the last couple of holes, or will you dwell on them?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Not really.  That bunker shot on 17, I just wanted to get it close and make 4 and walk off.  You know, it went in; I probably produced the worst fist pump in for a shot that's gone in.   
And then 18, it's a fairly difficult tee shot but I just leaked it a little bit right and paid the price for that.  But you know, it is what it is.  I've got my family here and we'll go out and celebrate tonight no matter what.   
 Q.  And I know you've touched on this, but year of your life, it's been fantastic for 2016, hasn't it?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, if you told me at the start of the year, I would finish -- might move up to fourth in The Race to Dubai, if you actually told me that at the beginning of the year, I would have been surprised.   
It's been such a great year and I'm very happy with that.   
 Q.  Fantastic effort and fantastic week; is that how you kind of resolve it, as well?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, that's the way I've got to look at it now.  Obviously it's a bitter pill to swallow.  But no, it's been a great week and I've got my family here, and you know, it's been such a great year for me.  So we'll go out and celebrate in a matter what tonight.   
 Q.  A great week, but also a fantastic year; the breakthrough year, really.  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, hopefully.  I've played some good golf this year and hopefully I'll continue that into next year.   
 Q.  Just a thought on what this means for British and English golf, just the fact that two young guys such as yourself have had an outcome such as this?  
TYRRELL HATTON: Yeah, it's exciting moving forward, and hopefully there will be many more occasions like this.  There's a few lads that are doing really well at the moment, as well, and I'm sure in the years to come that we'll be pushing each other forward.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT