WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 22, 2020
Elena Rybakina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  E. ALEXANDROVA/E. Rybakina
 7-5, 7-6
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Can you just talk about how it felt to play your first competitive match?  How did it feel out there, even regardless of the result?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   Actually, I was happy to compete again.  Yeah, it didn't go my way today.  But before, I was not nervous, was everything fine.  But then I stepped on court.  It's a bit weird, like, the situation, no fans, the change of rules, like you have to play with a mask, you have to take a towel and everything.  So, yeah.
 And then I was tight on the beginning of the match.  But still I'm happy that I had a chance to play matches again.  Hopefully in ten days start again.  So it's fine.
 Q. Can you talk about the last six months and what it's been like for you in terms of obviously probably the best start of anyone of the season and then the season had to stop and everything.  What was it like to realize you weren't going to play a tournament for a while, especially given the form that you were in?  And how did you spend that six months?  Where were you?  How much did you train, that sort of stuff?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   Yeah, actually I was really in good form.  It's sad that we have to stop.
 But, I mean, it's for everybody.  It was difficult time, because I was at home in Moscow, and I didn't hold my racquet for two-and-a-half months, so I couldn't even chance to go out of the apartment.
 So I was stuck at home and, like, I just couldn't do anything.  I was doing fitness as much as I could, like I was spending time with my family.  It's a good thing, but still, to be in shape like in these conditions was very tough.
 Yeah, after two-and-a-half months I started slowly to practice.  I went to Kazakhstan.  I started there.  But we couldn't, like, fully practice just because there it was a lockdown again.  So second time it was really tough.
 And then from there, I moved to Bratislava, and I started, like, full preparation.  I had before this tournament like five, six weeks there.  It was better, yeah.
 Q. When were you able to reunite with Stefano?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   In Kazakhstan, yeah.  We reunite in Kazakhstan, started slowly there.  But without fitness so much, just tennis, but then we didn't play for few days again because we couldn't of the situation in the country.
 So was tough, but at least we managed to come there and then to move to Bratislava.  And, yeah, it's really difficult time.  It was really tough, because, yeah, two-and-a-half months you just didn't hold your racquet.  It's crazy.  First time happen like this.
 Q. That long break, I mean, what was it like for the first few weeks for you when you started to practice fully tennis, so not fitness but tennis?  Did it feel natural to start hitting again and everything came back?  Or did it feel like, Oh, my gosh, I have to find my tennis again?  How did it feel for you?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   No, but actually after two-and-a-half months, like first time I was hitting like in Kazakhstan, and it was first practice and I expected worse.  So I didn't start that bad (smiling).  It was okay.
 And then slowly, slowly it was better and better.  But even now I think I lost this match because of the focus, concentration.  It's not about the shots.  I was hitting the ball good.  I was feeling it also good.  And now in practice is here, so I think it's in the head.
 I try to focus, to find my rhythm again.  We'll see.
 Q. There is no linesperson in the match.  Do you feel comfortable about this change?  Or you feel like tennis match still need some linesperson to judge the call?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   Yeah, in the beginning it was weird, like strange feelings, but then you start to play and you don't really pay attention, because you can see the ball is in or out, and the main decision-making the referee.
 So I don't feel really big difference.  It was fine for me.
 Q. Right now you are having the career best season so far in terms of your ranking and your level of game.  Do you think your life has changed a little bit?  For example, you have more attention from fans and media?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   Of course I had more attention the beginning of the year because of the results, but then everything stopped.  So not that many attention.  So I don't know.  I don't think that it was really big change for me.
 Q. Next you will play both US Open and French Open, I think.  So do you set any goals to yourself in the upcoming Grand Slams?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   I don't know.  The main goal for this year, just try to finish top 10.  I mean, now I just lost one opportunity, but then hopefully we will have more tournaments.  I still have chances.
 For Grand Slams, I can't say, because it's difficult after six months.  Yeah, I just want to play as much as I can and try to win every match and just focus one by one.
 Q. It's still like a week away from the US Open, so how will you prepare for the US Open?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   I had good preparation, six weeks.  I didn't have many (indiscernible).  It was tough.  I didn't play exhibitions or even tournament before like Palermo, Prague.
 But we managed to play with some girls, practice matches, but still it's not the same.  But I think in these conditions it was a good preparation.
 Q. How do you look at the rest of the season?  Because of the way you started so well, do you go into this restart with the confidence from January and February, or is this starting from zero for you?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   I think it's from zero, because it was six months ago, and everything, like, changed completely.  So of course I want to find this rhythm, this game like I played before, but I don't have to stop on this and just trying to find this feeling, whatever.  Just have to start from zero and don't think about the past, because it was many change, so just to find my rhythm and that's it.
 Q. Today in your tennis, what did you feel like you did well that you were happy with in terms of your level, in terms of, you know, tennis-wise?  And then where did you think that there was maybe some rustiness where maybe you realized you hadn't played enough matches, you know, where you wanted to get better?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   I can't say that today was many good things on court, like, because of the concentration and focus, I was really, like, up and down every time, like mostly down.  I didn't like good serve, good percentage of the serve.  Started really, like, tight.
 I think Ekaterina also start not that well.  I don't know.  I was just really -- before the match, I wanted to play.  I wanted to compete and was not that nervous.  But then I stepped on court and was tight.
 I don't know.  It was like everything, like, strange.  Lost concentration and, I don't know, just completely was off the rhythm.  Because probably I didn't play matches and I didn't play even exhibitions or any tournament, so hopefully with every match -- I mean, I don't have much time probably because we don't know what's going to happen later, but hopefully I will find my rhythm again and game in few matches.
 Q. Was it difficult for you to be the first match out on the Grandstand court this morning?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   Yes, it was weird feelings, because we started like here at the US Open in empty stadium.  And also, good opponent so it was difficult.  Of course I could do better, but it happened, I mean, just -- you lose, you learn.  I don't know.
 Q. What was it like playing out there today with very few people in the stands?  I'm gathering just a few coaches and tournament officials.  I mean, normally players feed off of the crowd, especially playing there at the US Open site, and you're out there with your opponent with no one to feed off.  Was that difficult for you?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   Yeah, of course it's not the same feeling when the stadium is empty, but because of my concentration, it was just first match, so I was trying to focus and I didn't really think about the empty stadium or how many people there.
 I was trying to focus on the game.  I don't know.  Of course everything is not the same like it was before, but anyway, you have to find your game and fight every match.
 Q. Now that you've been through this experience today and you'll have obviously some extra time to prepare for the US Open, do you think when you come back and play your first match, whomever that might be against in the Open, that you'll feel better prepared how to handle the situation?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   I don't know.  I mean, I just played one match now and I played against good opponent.  I lost her in the final of beginning of the year.  Of course I will analyze again this match and hopefully will not do the same mistakes and will find my game in these ten days.
 And also, I'm playing doubles.  I think it's good just to stay on the tournament, like, to feel these matches, tournament, everything.  It's not only practices.  So we will see.
 Q. You've gotten used to being in the bubble, going from the hotel to tournament site, getting used to feel for the atmosphere of being at this tournament, and what it will be like for the US Open?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   Of course atmosphere is completely different, but I think this bubble is really good, because they are taking care of us, like they are doing everything possible to keep us safe.
 So actually, during, like, tournaments before, I didn't have much time to go somewhere else except the courts and hotels, so this is not a big problem for me.  But, yeah, I think we have to adapt to all the conditions now and everybody has to be ready for everything.
 Q. Before the stoppage, obviously Stefano was very helpful when he'd have his on-court coaching timeouts with you, and seemed like he was able to help you refocus in tactics and everything into the match.  Obviously we come back and there is no on-court coaching and he can only say some things from the stands.  Do you think that will have any impact on you?  Like today do you think it would have helped if he could come down and give you a typical Stefano pep talk, or it doesn't matter one way or the other?
 ELENA RYBAKINA:   No, of course he's helping me this on-court coaching, giving me a lot of energy.  But, yes, today also I heard him.  I think today -- of course it's always depending only on you, like, and today the main problem was focus, so I don't think that he could help me a lot with this.
 Of course I did many easy mistakes, but I don't think I did many, like, tactical mistakes, because before he was also helping me with the tactics and everything, but today it was more about the focus, about the concentration.
 So I don't really think that one he could help, but yeah.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT