QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 24, 2020
Elena Rybakina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. RYBAKINA/S. Cirstea   
3-6, 6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Some good matches the last few weeks and good runs, but Dubai final, how did you manage to sustain the momentum in this match? Do you think you were ready for this match or are you still trying to get over the Dubai final?  
ELENA RYBAKINA: I was tired, of course, and I didn't have time to practice so much here, but, I mean, I just tried to do my best today to fight and to find a way, because it was not easy in the first set and she played really good.   
But, yes, I managed to win, I served good and it was a good match.   
 Q.  When you're playing tournaments like this, back-to-back, and you face top opponents and one tournament you stretched to the final in one tournament, how do you keep the momentum going for the next tournament? How do you keep yourself ready?  
ELENA RYBAKINA: I don't know, maybe it was more difficult for me to come here after the win in the final, maybe, because after -- I mean, I lost and of course I wanted to play better and I wanted to win, so I just -- I'm not tired to play, I just want to play very much and win, of course.   
 Q.  How is it possible that you are not tired?  
ELENA RYBAKINA: No, I'm tired, but still I have some energy to play and we will see how it goes this week, but now after the match I feel okay. I need some treatment, I'll go to the physio, I will rest, and I'm not playing so early tomorrow, so I think I have time to recover.   
 Q.  Please tell us how was your game in the first set and what did you have to improve in order to win against Sorana?  
ELENA RYBAKINA: In the first set I actually served also good, but I was not ready after the serve and I was playing too short, I think.   
But then I stepped in a bit, I was feeling better, the courts, the conditions, so I was focusing more on the important points and so I think, yeah, I just managed to serve better in the important moments and I played a little bit deeper.   
 Q.  Do you have something to regret or would you like to change something from the final with Simona in Dubai?  
ELENA RYBAKINA: Oh, it was a pretty close match and actually I had chances, I was up 3-1 in the third set and also tie break it was 5-4.   
Of course, I mean, I could play better some points, but it was a pretty close match and she played really good, she was fighting until the end and, I mean, I think it was a good match.   
 Q.  Is there anything you've changed in the last few weeks since the start of the season, you've changed your approach? Because you had some pretty good wins in the last two weeks.  
ELENA RYBAKINA: We're always trying to improve something with my coach, even when I'm playing tournaments. But we changed a bit my serve, I mean it's just small details, it's nothing like completely different.   
But, yes, we're trying to improve and also I have always tactic and some plan for every match. And sometimes I follow it, but sometimes I can be stubborn, you know. So of course I have to improve these things also, just listen to advice from my coach and just do it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT