WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 9, 2009
Davey Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How is Chipper doing?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: I talked to Chipper. The trainer checked him over, and he didn't have any discomfort, just a little bit. He is a lot better from yesterday. You know, we got five days off with him. I'm not going to use him on Wednesday. You know, Chipper can hit. If he's healthy, he can fall out of bed and hit. 
 So this is no different than if -- you know, I tell the guys a couple times if they have anything that's nagging them or whatever, we don't need any heroes here. We got plenty of players that can go out and play. 
 He missed the party yesterday. He said he missed that, and he said he wants to contribute before this is over. I said we're not worried about that. So I think he is feeling pretty good today.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Everybody under the sun did. And it's not something that -- you know, MRI or cat scan or anything, you know, that's something they would do. Some more rest, and we were fortunate enough we had the rest for him.

 Q. Did they say, We'd like to do this with him?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: No, no. But I think they know that, you know, we're concerned with him. You know, again, it was kind of by design. It was nice to actually have four third basemen, if need be. I had one left, and I had a good outfielder left on the bench, so it was easy to make that move in the game yesterday. 
 But I think he is going to be all right.

 Q. Will he be here today?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Oh, he is in the clubhouse.

 Q. Will he actually take any --
 DAVEY JOHNSON: No, no, no. 
 There's a lot of guys hitting extra down there. A lot of guys here, hanging around the clubhouse for a little camaraderie. Being an optional workout, they may not work out.

 Q. Because he has a history of having these obliques before, are they sort of leaving it up to him?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: I think they probably have gone down this road with him, being a switch-hitter. Something that probably happens and comes up in the spring. 
 Even after I talked to Chipper after the game, and he was optimistic after the game, he was more so today. So that's all good.

 Q. This roster you have, not a lot of high-maintenance guys. Is that kind of by design, or is that just the kind of guy who is going to sign up for something like this?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: I think yes to both of those questions. You know, bottom line, I don't know anybody in the big leagues that isn't a good guy, to be honest with you. But the make-up is exceptional on this club. Every conversation I've had, from David Wright, Granderson, any of them, Rollins, whatever they could do to help win. I mean, Mark DeRosa, I said, you know, "I talked to Eric, and he said he didn't want you too much at second, and nothing at first. And I'd like to have you at third or the outfield." 
 And I talked to Mark and he said, "Shoot, don't worry about me. I just want to win. Pinch run me, that would be fine." 
 So that's basically how everybody feels.

 Q. What are you doing pitching-wise?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Pitching-wise, Wednesday, we'll probably get Lillie and Guthrie to get their work in. That's the good news. The bad news is that I have a whole lot of relievers that are probably going to be all over Lach saying, you know, I've had 3 days off, I need to get in there. So that's the downside of it.

 Q. You've said that was your concern right along?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Yeah. You know, we may, you know, talk about throwing some hitters, but I don't see how we can do that either, because we're going to travel on Thursday, probably leave around midday. So we won't be able to really have a workout anywhere. And then we'll have a practice down in Miami on Friday. And you wouldn't want any of the pitchers throwing that would make them unavailable for the next day. 
 So I'll have a whole lot of guys ready for that series, which will be fun compared to what we've had the first two games here. 
 Then as the starters go further, there is another problem for the manager and the pitching coach, how to get everybody their work.

 Q. Five days, six days between meaningful games, I know you play Wednesday, but there's nothing really tangible on the line for you?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: You know, I mean, there's quirks involved with, and it's going to be the same with all clubs, you know, especially with the clubs traveling from the Far East coming to San Diego. I mean, there's a full day right there. 
 Then they actually need a day to get the time adjust. So we're not the only ones that have some problems.

 Q. Is there a way to refine that, to improve it?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: You know, probably, for me, it would be ideal to have, you know, 30 countries in one city and let's duke it out (laughter). 
 They're talking about having a whole bunch more. If we do that, we're not traveling all the corners of the world. There's some operational issues that will need to be addressed, as I'm sure there was three years ago, and I'm sure there will be after this format, to iron out some things, make it easier for the guys in uniform. But whatever it is, we'll deal with it.

 Q. Are there some team functions the next day or two, or is it more just chill-out because you guys have been together a week without free time yet?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Well, you know, winning the first two games and everybody contributing, you know, that's what you call chemistry. You know, winning solves a lot of problems, and, you know, I really sweated it out the first two games, because I, you know -- we were in a really tough situation. I don't know if you guys realized, but I was thinking we could play Venezuela, have to come back and play the next great team in Canada, then come back and play Venezuela again, had we not won yesterday. 
 So it worked out perfect for us. But that was my nightmare. You know, having to play four games early.

 Q. I mean, guys can have a little bit of free time?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Yeah, and give the relievers the time they need that they would normally get this time of year, this time of spring. 
 You know, I had some sleepless nights the first couple nights, wondering, How am I going to get nine innings in and we need to win to avoid having two real tough games? 

 Q. What's the latest on Chipper, is it good?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: He's fine. I'll make it short since you're late (laughter).

 Q. He won't play then on Wednesday?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: No, he will not play Wednesday.

 Q. But he could be in the second round?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: He will be in the second round. If you ask Chipper, if it was the World Series or something and meant a lot other than just our seeding in the next tournament, he'd play. 
 There he is. You guys can ask him.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT