WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 8, 2009
Davey Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Well, what do you know about these guys, and what are you thinking about tonight's game?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: I think its going to be a replay of last night. I mean, it's very strong team over there. They have quality major leaguers going against us, same way we're going against them. It's going to be who can execute. But I look for a really good game.

 Q. Playing with the bullpen similar to yesterday, trying to get innings out of both guys?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: The format for this one, and the spring for a lot of our guys is, you know, there may be rules in the WBC that allow them to pitch back-to-back because of the pitches, but, you know, a lot of times we're kind of restricted by the preference of their parent club. 
 So, you know, we, Lach and I, have many conversations on it. I asked him -- one of the biggest questions I asked him today is, What happens if we go extra innings, because we really only have five guys. After using six relievers yesterday, we only have five guys, then we have a day off. Really don't want to have to go extra innings and take a chance with guys who have already, you know -- that is usually -- I mean, most clubs, I talked to a lot of guys now, and Lach a lot of guys, when they pitch in the spring, they get two days off. So going back-to-back this early in the spring could be something we don't want to do. 
 So hopefully it will be just a nine-inning game.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Well, the answer was, yes, in an emergency they can go.

 Q. Is that a WBC rule?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: I mean, it's the number of pitches for relievers. You know, if you go over thirty pitches, you need two days off. But it's where they're at in the spring, I mean, a lot of guys have had maybe just two innings, and you really don't want to take a guy that has two or three innings, then go back-to-back with him. 
 So it's really just common sense. You really don't need to make that call, but you make it anyway, just so, you know, that if something did happen, we may have to go back-to-back and want to see how adamantly they were against it.

 Q. You managed so long in the major league, you know how manager's take it. Do you talk directly to the managers or do their pitching coaches talk to your pitching coaches?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Basically, Lach is talking with the pitching coaches. He'll call them after they've had their work. Of course, there were quite a few conversations before and after the game with Tampa Bay, you know, about J.P. you know, he got hit by a fly ball in batting practice, got him in his left arm, had a big bruise there. We probably wouldn't have won that game if we weren't able to use him. So hopefully, we'll have some time off, and he'll be able to heal and get rid of the bruise on his left arm. 
 But those are the kind of things that, you know, you are concerned about. And as with everybody on the ball club. The conversations I've had with the players and the pitchers, you know, If anything's bothering you at all, let us know, because we don't need heroes here. 
 This is a very important -- it's very important to play well but we're not going to play at the expense of somebody's career.

 Q. He threw thirty pitches last night, so he is not available?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: He is not available. Those are covered in the rule book. Even if he felt great, and he feels good today, he is going to have two days off, today and tomorrow.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Probably the same thing. Again, it's just going to be common sense that is going to dictate how we use a pitcher. 
 It's not been fun for Marcel. It hasn't been a whole lot of fun for me because you really aren't managing. You're really kind of who's available, you know. Do we have nine, you know, without pushing somebody? 
 And I've had those conversations with Lach, and, you know, he is not a happy camper.
 Now, that's the problem in this first series. And should we make it to the second round, it gets really a lot easier. And then, if we make it to the final round, it gets miserable again, because now starters are going six innings, and we got 11, 12 pitchers in the bullpen. 
 So if I am going to give them some work and keep them all happy out there, I'll be making a beaten path to the mound.

 Q. Conversely, when you were watching -- if you were watching last night's game, were you watching who Luis put in and hoping he would wear out his bullpen early?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Well, I was hoping they would use the guy they had first warming up out there, and, you know, I was kind of hoping they'd use him, then he can't pitch the next day. Now, I was under the understanding, if you just heat a guy up, you can't pitch the next day (laughter.)

 Q. There is a way to keep him out of this game. 
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Yeah, keep the lead, there's no doubt about it. 
 But those are the problems you have. And, you know, we can't even think about using a starter because, you know, if we don't come out on top, we could have two more games. So there's -- you know, it's not your normal season staff. Where you got a sixth reliever, even seven at times, it's about starting and getting some innings. 
 So we just have to kind of play it and keep our fingers crossed.

 Q. Going forward, how do you envision handling shortstop?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Well, you know, I had a plan going in, and then Jeter swung the bat real good and got two hits. Then Barry says to me they're splitting, they're going to split the game, they're going to split the game. I said, All right, Barry. 
 So I called time-out and said, If we're going to split it, let him run for him. So everybody seen me taking him out. I'm glad the press box didn't have a phone down here, I'm sure they would call, Is he hurt, is he hurt, is he hurt? 
 Then I made the press conference when all the New York writer were talking to Jeter right after the game, so I didn't have to answer one question on that subject.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DAVEY JOHNSON: I think so, but, you know, since Barry's making that decision for me, I'll just let you all talk to Barry.

 Q. Have a former shortstop making that decision?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Yeah, I told Barry when he first got to camp, that shortstop situation is something you know something about, so you can handle it.

 Q. You got pitching covered, shortstop, what else?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Well, I got a Hall-of-Fame staff, basically, you know. We've had a lot of little sessions for, you know, asking them what they think. The only problem with that is, I generally go back to doing what I wanted to do to begin with, because not everybody is on the same page. The same reason I don't usually ask a bench coach, or whatever, if this guy is done. Basically, I need to have everybody have a good experience down here. 
 This is a great event, and everybody needs to come out of here enjoying it. I don't want a man on the team to feel neglected and not used because they're all quality players.

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about Ryan Braun, the kid who came in and had a great couple seasons in the majors, and now he is at this stage?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: I love him. He is a great person and a heck of a player. He probably had the best spring. He and Chipper really had -- those three games, they really played good. 
 You know, I had -- Rose is kind of a utility kind of guy, because that's the role he had with the Cubbies last year. I was talking with Eric Wedge, he is going to use him at third base and the outfield. So I used him once at second base, because I knew he was very comfortable over there. Eric didn't want him over at first, so the only way I could get him in there is to play him where Eric wants to play him, back in the outfield, get him some ABs, then I'll bring back Ryan.

 Q. In terms of learning experience for a 25-year-old playing in his third year, just talks about it. 
 DAVEY JOHNSON: Ballplayers learn about role modeling. You know, I mean, you look at guys, and you watch the way they go about their business, you watch the way they get ready for a ball game, and you watch their approach as a hitter. And I think it's invaluable. It helps you to know more about yourself, it helps you -- it answers questions that you might have. 
 I mean, I don't know any big leaguer that hasn't had role models and guys that they look at and they pick up things from. You know, I'm sure that there's probably some guys on this ball club that he's looked at, and he's watched the way they went about their business, and he's picked up some things.
 When you under this game, you are always learning. You never stop learning. I don't care if you are a player or manager, you are always learning.

 Q. Do you think it will help guys like brawn, Granderson, young guys that come and play with Chipper Jones and such?
 DAVEY JOHNSON: It obviously helps their pride and their ego, that they're thought well enough to be on the same squad with that crew, you know. But none of them are intimidated. I mean, it's a great experience, and it's a lot of fun, and they've had great careers to date. 
 So one of the biggest things, my job, was to let them know, you know, how I was going to use them. You know, I talked to Granderson about, Have you played some of the corners in case I need to move you over there? 
 He said he had. 
 I talked, you know, about possibly moving him. We picked up Victorino, and he's done more, he's played more of the corner. So Granderson I'm keeping at center field. I was able to relate that to him, You are going to be my center fielder. You're going to come in the game for defense, you know, for the big right field when we get in the lead. 
 He says, You like to do it the way Leland does? 
 I said, I don't know. How does Leland do it? 
 He said, Well, I came into one game, I think it was the fourth inning, for defense. 
 I said, I'm not quite that quick. 
 And then one of the main things is, once you have that conversation with a young player, your words better not ring hollow. In other words, you better stay with what you told him. 
 And I think the biggest thing with players is not so much what you tell them, it's basically how you use them, and how consistent you are with that use. Because if you do that, then the mental preparation is there to go along with the physical talent, and they'll perform. 
 And I think that every manager tries to follow through with that. And where they understand -- I can tell him he's my shortstop, and the next day he is not going to believe a word I say. 
 So I've tried to get that understanding with everybody, from the catchers on down. I told the catchers early on, Iannetta was worried about, with Brian McCann on the club, would he ever play. I said, I'm alternating the catchers, and you'll get your share of playing time if we got to the finals, you know, I'll probably still alternate, again because catcher is the toughest position to play and come back from. 
 But, you know, he feels good about it so I know he was mentally prepared. I didn't have to tell him the day before he was in there. He knew he was going to be in there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT