CHINA OPEN
September 30, 2018
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. GARCIA/Wang Yafan
7-6, 6-7, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously a three-hour match, lots of ups and downs.  How did you get through it and what made the difference in the end?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah, obviously too much happened, for sure.  Yeah, it was a very complicated match.  I'm playing some good part and then some bad part.  Every single time I was down, I was playing better.  When I had the opportunity to go in front at the score, I was not going for it.  Then she was just taking the chance, and I couldn't finish every single time.
It was the same in the third set.  I was playing very well when I came back from the restroom.  You know, 4-1, it was like no trouble, nothing.  But I decided it was better to lose my serve than to do a little bit more the battle at the end.
It's very frustrating for me to be like this last couple of weeks now.  Last week against Siniakova, I think it was overall a better match, but it was the same:  I was up, I couldn't finish.  I'm happy I found the way.  I fight, even if it was bad.
You know, I really looking for the solution.  It's tough.  But because I won that one, maybe I have a chance.
Q. You said in the last couple of weeks you had some very close matches, 7-6, 7-5.  Today was close.  Because you got out on top rather than falling, do you think that unlocks something?  Is there a confidence boost?  Have you found a key to get over the line in those close matches?
CAROLINE GARCIA: I hope so.  You know, that's what I thought out on court, because I wanted this win.  I wanted a chance to improve in the next match.  After it's very close to win it or lose it.  Of course, if I will have lose that one, that would be very hard on my head.  I found the way to win it.  I'm happy about that.
I don't know if it's going to make difference for the next matches, but I will try to improve and learn from this one, try to play better.  You know, it's always complicated.
Q. You were obviously upset in Wuhan after the match, even though it was really close.  If I understood correctly, you mentioned that you feel it's been this way the whole season.  Why do you see that?  You've actually had good results, as well.  You're in the top 20.  Are you too hard on yourself?  What exactly are you feeling?
CAROLINE GARCIA: I don't know.  Yes, I was definitely very upset after Wuhan, very disappointing.  I'm not totally sure I remember exactly what I said.  But I said I think I had a lot of opportunities this year in some matches, in tournaments and everything.  Compared to the previous year, I didn't take my chances.  I just let the opportunity go in front of me.  That's probably why there is a difference in the ranking right now.  Yeah, that's why I feel I'm disappointing in everything.
You know, it's a complicated year.  A lot of up and down.  I want to try to use these last tournaments to try to improve and play some good matches, some good tennis.  I will see.
But, of course, sometimes in the difficult year, you have more to learn.  That's what we are trying to do.
Q. Do you feel, when you mentioned the ups and downs, that you're putting too much pressure on yourself?  Is it more tennis or more mental?
CAROLINE GARCIA: I think in my game there is some good things, there is some improvement I did on practice.  But after in matches, I couldn't put it all together yet.  Maybe it's going to be too late now, it will be for next year maybe (smiling).
But I don't know if it's myself, it's everything around.  It's a little bit of a everything.  But of course I think it's pretty much mental.  I think we can see I'm still playing good tennis sometimes.
Q. You have come to China Open many times.  As the defending champion, it's the first time.  Will that give you more pressure?  How do you feel different for this time?
CAROLINE GARCIA: No, I'm very happy to be back in China Open.  I don't think I have more pression this year right now than I have been all year long.  I'm very happy to be here.  It's a great tournament.  It's improving every year.  They are doing a lot of effort.
It's a strong field, like every year.  So it's a good opportunity to play good matches.  I'm looking forward to it.
Now I'm going to be late to the party tonight (smiling).
Q. Tell us about the goals you set for yourself for this tournament.
CAROLINE GARCIA: I don't have a specific goal like I want to do quarterfinal, I want to do semifinal.  It's not my way to works.
But, yeah, I'm practice, I'm playing good.  On matches it's so-so.  It's a lot of up and down.  I want to mentally try to find the way and the key to put everything together and to fight and be positive.
When I play good and when I'm positive, it's definitely better.  So that's what I want to try to do for the last couple of tournaments I have.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT