CHINA OPEN
September 28, 2018
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You're obviously the first one to win Wuhan and China Open back-to-back last year.  How do you follow that up?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah, you know, of course it was really nice two weeks for me last year in China, winning Wuhan and then Beijing.  It was very tough two weeks.  I fight my way in the matches.  It was never easy.  I always find a way to go through and be the winner on court.
I think it got me a lot of confidence and made me improve, made me also see new things, live new things, have a new ranking at the top.  But, you know, after the year went, other matches, you have to fight your way.  I'm very happy to be back, but I know it's different this year.
Q. You talked about the different scenarios.  Last week in Wuhan, you had the opportunity to come back.  What was the mentality like coming in as defending champion?  It was a tough opening match for you.  What were the emotions coming back, and what did you learn from Wuhan to bring this week?
CAROLINE GARCIA: I was definitely happy to be back.  It was really a lot of good energy and positive memories.  I don't think I was more stressed, you know.  You just try to learn your way out.  I got some opportunity in my match, and I couldn't take it.  She played a good match, I think.
It could turn my way, but it didn't.  I lost 7-6 in the third.  I was really disappointed to go out this early, but maybe it's chance for me to improve in this tournament.  If it's not in this tournament, then the next one or the one after.
Q. Do you have a specific goal for the rest of the season?
CAROLINE GARCIA: You know, it's not something special I want.  Of course, I want to improve.  I want to play good tennis on court.  I do good things in the practice, but sometimes I don't put everything together in the matches.  That's what I want to try to do for these last couple of tournaments.
We'll see if I can do something else.  It's some good opportunity I have, some good goals, but I will see what I can reach.
Q. The match in Wuhan was three hours, pretty grueling.  Are you still a little tired?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Tired?  I mean, tired, it's okay.  I lost couple of matches very tight lately.  Of course, it's never very easy to lose 7-6 in the third, in the US Open, two days ago, 7-5 against Sabalenka in Cincinnati.  It's tough, I couldn't make it.  It was a little bit difficult for my head.  I was a bit negative for two days.
But I think I am over it now.  We had a good practice for the first time here this morning, and back this afternoon to practice again.  You just have to find your way.  It's not always easy, but it's part of the adventure.  I think if I can go through, it will make me better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT