ROGERS CUP
August 10, 2018
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/C. Garcia
7-5, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. How soon will you head to Cincinnati?  Will you leave tomorrow?
CAROLINE GARCIA: No idea.  I checked the flights.  They are so expensive for this kind of trip, and so long.  So I'm desperate.  700 bucks to do air to Cincinnati.  It's like, Are you kidding?
Q. Is this an opportunity to spend and extra day or two here in French Canada?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah, maybe I will check how is the flight for the next couple of days.  I think I have a bye in Cincinnati, so I will play Tuesday or Wednesday.  Maybe I can have one more day here and then go.
But, you know, it's never easy after a loss to think already how you have to go to the next place.  We know in U.S., sometimes with these tournaments, it's complicated to go from one place to another.  You have to make the final and get the private jet, but I didn't.  It sucks now (smiling).
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Can you describe what happened between the first and the second set.
CAROLINE GARCIA: Well, the first set was very tough.  It was a big battle on both sides.  I had opportunities to win the set at one stage, but I wasn't able to play well on the important points.  I gave her some points.
Then in the second set, the first game was tight, but after that I let go.  I started making mistakes by rushing too much.  She took advantage of it.
Q. At what moment did you feel the match was turning around?  Is it when she lobbed you after a spectacular rally or some other time?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Up to 3-1, 4-1, I was still into the match.  Then there were several rallies where I was dominating the point.  I could have finished it off by hitting harder, but I didn't do that.  She was able to finish off the point, or lob me, as you said.  I maybe didn't have the best tactics.  I was moving forward, but I still wasn't able to finish off the points.
Q. Watching the match, we had the feeling Halep is very difficult to be outrun, or it's difficult to finish off the point, the ball keeps coming back.
CAROLINE GARCIA: That's her strength.  She controls the rallies and she covers the court very well.  If you try to put her out of the court, she uses that to put you out of the court also.  Sometimes you need to have her out of the court, but you must be ready to run a lot because she will counterattack.  I did that well in the first set, but in the second set I was a bit lost and I couldn't do that.
Q. Is there anything positive in a match like this against the No. 1 in the world?
CAROLINE GARCIA: In the first set, there are positive things.  After Wimbledon, it was difficult for me.  I practiced.
I had two good matches.  I wanted to do better today.  I would have preferred to be able to sustain the play for two sets.  Now I'm not the most positive person afternoon losing the match.
I do believe there are positive things, but I certainly think there's a lot of work to do still.
Q. You didn't want to talk about revenge, but maybe next time you play her, couldn't you think about revenge to give you extra motivation?
CAROLINE GARCIA: I don't believe this is the right solution to be able to beat her.  When I beat her in Beijing, I didn't see that as revenge.  Maybe other players like that, but it's not my thing.
Q. The last French player in the draw.  Did you think about that?
CAROLINE GARCIA: No.  I'm no longer thinking about these things.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT