ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2018
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. How do you feel when you come here?  I'm curious, what are your earliest memories from this tournament?
CAROLINE GARCIA: No, I'm very happy to come here.  It's a Grand Slam, and it's Roland Garros.  So it's something special for me.  You know, I have dreamt to play this tournament since I was a little girl, and now I'm playing.  And, yeah, I mean, it's a great opportunity, and it's always a privilege.  I feel lucky to be here.
You know, to be as No. 7 seed it's even better, that mean I have my chances.  I'm very happy to be here and excited.
Q. What are your earliest memories of this tournament?  Is there anything that you remember?  A specific match or specific moment?
CAROLINE GARCIA: When I played?
Q. No, when you were young.  What do you remember?
CAROLINE GARCIA: You know, I came a couple of times, my parents bring me to watch matches a couple of times.
You know, it was special to be on this court watching.  I mean, I think the first time we came we had some good matches, and so a great, more of great player, and Serena was already there.  It's kind of surprising but she's still here and competing.
Q. How different does it feel right now just kind of sitting there now than maybe you were last year?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Is the first time I have to do the media on Friday, so it's for sure different (smiling).
But, you know, I mean, it's good.  There is some little things different, but it's, like I say, it's a chance and opportunity to be here as top-10 player, so that mean I have my chances in this tournament.
I want just to really enjoy it and see what I can do, yeah.
Q. Did you think last year that in your mind that it would, I don't know, be possible for you to come back here as a top-10 seed, you know, given where things were at, where your game was at compared to now?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Well, depends if you ask at the beginning or at the end of the tournament.  But, you know, at the beginning of the year last year was complicated, and a lot of things wasn't going in the good way, but we kept working hard.  To be top 10 at the end was my goal, but I wasn't sure I could achieve it.  I started from far.
But, you know, like here, every week it's very important, and I took my chances at the end of the year, and make it possible to be top 10 here.  But when you have a goal you never know if you're going to achieve it.  You work hard every day for it.  I don't know if it's a surprise, but it's good to be as a top 10.
Q. I was watching a highlights reel the other day from last year's tournament, and the reactions from you were amazing.  I'm just curious for you what is the most vivid memories of last year's run?  Anything that stands out to you?  What was your most emotional moment?
CAROLINE GARCIA: I think the third-round match on Court 1 against Hsieh was very special and very emotional.  It was a tough match of very long, and I was running side to side against her.  I was a bit down in the third set, but the crowd really cheer for me, and it was the first time I was feeling this kind of emotion on individual event.
It was really special to make my first second week in the French Open after all the difficult week.  And to share it with French fans was making it even more special.
Q. Has it gotten easier at the French Open over the years?  Was last year a turning point, as well, because the years before it hasn't always gone maybe the way you wanted it to here?  Was that a turning point from your side where you felt, okay, I feel good here?  I don't feel just the pressure.  I feel the joy and the excitement of playing here.
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah.  I think it's what makes the difference last year was I was not seeing only the pressure and negative side to be a French player in French Open.  I was seeing also the positive.
That's what I try to kept doing in all the year.  For sure now it's important for me to see it like here it's an opportunity to be here as a top 10 as a French player.
So it's a great event.  You know, I'm very happy to be here.  For sure it's a little bit different.  There is more attention but there is probably also more support.  So it's great to be here.
Q. Speaking of support, your team won Champions League last night?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yes, they did.
Q. Just was curious to your thoughts on that and what your reaction was.  Were you watching the match?
CAROLINE GARCIA: It was like 6:00 p.m. and I didn't know.  I mean, yeah, so I was trying to rush from my event I had to do and I arrive at, like, 86 minutes, but it was, like, 0-0.  Everything happen in the additional time.
So I was very happy, and for sure it was tough match.  I was very happy for them they could make it a fifth time, three in a row.  They are great girls, great team.  I'm very happy for all the club.
Q. I'm curious when you're walking around here in Paris, what's the reaction of people like?  Do you get mobbed?  Are you able to walk easier?
CAROLINE GARCIA: I took a flight from Lyon to Paris and I think one person recognize me only.  So I'm thinking I'm safe (smiling).
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. I was very happy to see you playing in practice with Simona.  I'm a fan of both of you.  Could you tell us a little bit about this possibility of playing her in the quarterfinals?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Well, I don't know.  I can't tell you because there will be quite a few matches before.  There is quite a lot of possibilities.  Many things can happen.  So I'll have to focus on the first round, and then I'll see.
Anyway, if you want to play far in the tournament, usually in the quarterfinals you play a high seed.
Q. The fact that you were in the quarterfinals last year, what does it change in your approach?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Well, this is a tournament where I had trouble in the past.  Last year I managed to prepare better, to manage all this.  I'll try to use my experience.  And the fact that I played in the quarterfinals last year did give me some confidence in the fact that I could play much better in the Grand Slam tournaments, not only in the French Open.
It's always a good thing to know that you have done it in the past, but Grand Slam is always a complex scenario, long tournaments, a lot of matches.  You have to remain fit all the time.
Q. For French men, we feel that '83, Yannick Noah was the unattainable Holy Grail.  For girls, the fact that Mary Pierce or Mary won this tournament earlier, do you feel that the pressure is less for you than men?
CAROLINE GARCIA: No, I don't think it makes a difference.  It's the same.  Some did play in the finals, so they were not far from playing.  Girls went all the way and managed to win.
But amongst the men, a lot of them were in the top 10 for several years.  Honestly, I think we can do it as far as women are concerned, but there is no reason men couldn't do it.
Q. OM1 in the French league -- there is something happening in Lyon.  Lyon is winning.  Do you believe in all these signs?
CAROLINE GARCIA: No, I don't specifically believe in all these signs, but Lyon is very good city for sports, and it has been so for many years.  We are all fighting to try and make it, and many positive things have happened lately in Lyon and for Lyon.
So it may be a good sign.  I don't know.  We will try to surf the wave.
Q. After a great 2017 season, did you expect such a beginning of 2018?  Is it in line with what you had thought?  What did you expect to renew with this kind of euphoria, so to say?  Was it complicated?  What is your vision of the first six months of the year?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Well, let's say if I had tried to renew with the level of a given time, it wasn't right.  It wasn't the right thing to do.  I wanted to continue improving.  The season was different because after you have been practicing, it's different to renew this competition.  It was different.  The beginning of the year I had ups and downs.  The past few weeks have been more positive, more solid.
But it's also a different atmosphere in view of my new ranking, and I try to learn as much as I can, to improve day after day.
But it's correct.  It's positive.  The best start of the year I have had ever.  But there are still elements where I can improve.
Q. Coming back to that, it may be the first time that you're coming to a Grand Slam tournament looking at the main expectations for French tennis.  After all, you're the best-ranked person in French tennis.  Does it make a difference?  Does it make you proud?
CAROLINE GARCIA: No, I don't really feel that.  I don't think about that too much.  I know I have the best rank.  Men in the past were often better ranked than women, and let's say the public was expecting more from them.  I don't look at things from this viewpoint.  I try to take pleasure in what I do, to win matches, and if it can make the general public happy, well, then that's all the better.
I would say that French men's tennis is still very strong and very well recognized, even though lately they may not have been playing so well.  But there is a lot of expectations from them.
Q. So the position as a leader, is it something you would claim?
CAROLINE GARCIA: No, it's not my kind of thing.
Q. In the present tournaments, the winners change almost every week.  There is a place for everyone, because a few years ago, Serena or Maria were winning everything.  Would you say this is the right time to go for a Grand Slam title?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yes, why not?  Because over the past few years, there has been more opportunities.  I don't know if there's more this year than past year, it's more or less the same.  But usually the winners are in the top 10 for the major tournaments, but obviously there are opportunities that can be seized.
I don't think there is someone who is more favorite than another, but it's still a Grand Slam.  I have an opportunity.  And the fact that it's open means that people who are lower in the ranks also want to seize their opportunities.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT