MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 10, 2018
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. GARCIA/C. Suarez Navarro
6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. So far it looks like you have been flying under the radar.  Not many have had their eyes on you.  Does that suit you?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah, I am fine.  As long as I keep winning, I'm fine.
I mean, I don't know.  I just did my matches, match by match.  I mean, yeah, was some good matches, some up and down sometimes.  But yesterday against Julia, I had to play a little bit better.  It was very intense match.
Today was a completely different game.  It's never easy to play someone like Carla, who is playing well in Spain.  The fans were cheering for her.  She was in confidence after the two matches she had.
It was difficult condition.  I had to be focused on myself and try to play good and improve from yesterday.  I was solid enough to win in two sets.
Q. Do you feel like things are steadily progressing for you this season?  Stuttgart wasn't bad this year.  How do you feel things are coming along in terms of your form?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah, I think it's different.  Everything improving a little bit from one match to another.
Stuttgart was good, but sometimes it was not really the way I wanted.  Like I said, it's different condition.  Yeah, I can really play my game and use sometimes a little bit more topspin on my forehand.  It's definitely very useful here.
Yeah, every match is little bit better than the other one.  From today it was sometimes opportunity I didn't finish it, but it was okay.  I was still able to stay calm and finish in two sets.
But for sure I've play well in the important moment.
Q. You could either play Sharapova again or Bertens.  Your thoughts on playing them, especially having beaten Sharapova in Stuttgart?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah, it was a very tough match.  Very close.  I guess both of us could win this one.  It will be different if we have to play here.  It will be a semifinal.  It's an outside event.  The clay is maybe a little bit slower, a little bit more bouncy.  It will be a different match.
Like always when you play against Sharapova, you have to play your best.  She always play very aggressive.  She know how to deal with pression.
Bertens always play her best on clay, I think.  She likes clay.  She's moving very well on this surface.  She's using well the topspin on serve and forehand.
I played her only once.  Well, I played her in Fed Cup two, three years ago, then very long time ago, so I don't have any -- I don't really know her outside of this.  For sure, it's going to be a big fight.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT