BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2018
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. GARCIA/D. Gavrilova   
7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You were 4-2 down in the first and came back and up 4-2 in the second.  Got a little complicated.  What did you make of the rhythm of the match?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I think even if I was 4-2 down, every game was very tight.  I had couple of break points and I couldn't make it, and then it was 4-2.  But it could be 4-2 for me and it would not be any surprise.   
Then in the second set I started very well, and she was making some mistake a little bit earlier in the rallies than in the first set.   
And I know against Daria it's always going to be a fight until the end and she always want to come back in the match, and it's never over.   
I'm very happy the way I played at 4-All and 5-4 in the second set.   
 Q.  That kind of perspective, is that really a testament to how much you feel like you have grown mentally to be down 4-2 but feel, I'm going to come back, this could easily be 4-2 for me?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah, I think it's important.  Sometimes the score didn't really show what's happening on court.   
Yeah, I had, like, three break points, I think, and I couldn't make any of them.   
And so I just tried to stay close to the score, winning my service game.  I had the occasion to come back at 4-3, and I make it.  I think it's important just to keep calm and do my game.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on the next match, either Kerber or Vesnina?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I mean, it's going to be a good match, for sure.  And Kerber played little better this year than she played last year, and I think she's more aggressive.  And Vesnina, I think it's a place she really likes to play (smiling).  So either one is going to be a good match.   
 Q.  May I ask about the T-shirt?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Oh, yeah.  I mean, it's not on a purpose particular.  It's just important to have respect for everyone.  That's it.   
 Q.  Going deep into this draw, are you reworking your schedule, your practice routines at all to conserve energy?  Going deep into this draw, are you changing up your practice, your routines any just to conserve?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Well, it's going to be different because I will play tomorrow, so I don't have a day off between my matches.  Apparently after this match there is one day off again.   
So it's a different schedule.  It's nice to have one day off and be able to practice between the matches.  But tomorrow it's different, so I have to recover quicker tonight and be ready for my next match tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT