BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 27, 2017
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. GARCIA/C. Wozniacki   
0-6, 6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That's twice you come back from 3-5 down.  You're making a habit of this.  Do you wish you could win easier or do you relish the battle?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Not yet.  I mean, I'm happy that when the battle is on I'm fighting and I find a way to come back.  If I can win in two sets, I mean, I'm sure I would be happy about it, and my team will be even more.   
 Q.  I think a lot of people have been talking about how this court really favors the players who play like Wozniacki, the percentage players.  Obviously you hit a very big ball, and you've have won two out of your three matches.  What do you think is the key for a player who hits as aggressively as you do to succeed on a surface like this?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I think it's kind of a slow surface, for sure.  But after, you always can find a way to go around it.  I mean, I had to be a little bit more patient and don't go for it too fast, because the passing shots are a little bit easier to do than normally.   
But, I mean, like every time, everyone can play and try to push a limit.  For sure, it's a very slow court, but I found my rhythm finally.   
 Q.  I guess you felt a little bit out of rhythm in the first set.  Did you feel rushed?  What was going through your mind?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I was feeling like she was missing nothing.  She was reading very well my game.  I was playing very flat, and she didn't have any issue with it.   
And then I change a little bit things, and I put more intensity with my legs.  I finally -- like, she started a couple of mistakes, and I kept the intensity on and kept trying to find a way.   
 Q.  Quite a few players have served for the match against you in the last month, and they haven't won those matches.  How do you explain that?  Barty, Svitolina twice, now Wozniacki.  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah, I mean, I don't know.  I can't explain it perfectly.  I know that recent, like in the past few weeks, I have improved my rhythm.  There is more rhythm in presentation before, but after, like, on the last game, I know that the other one are going to get a little bit tight, but I'm still, like, very careful to try to bring every ball in I can, be aggressive like I'm used to do.   
And sometimes, you know, when you are down, you maybe play a little bit more relaxed.  I don't know.  I don't feel little more relaxed, but maybe.   
So I just try to keep fighting, keep learning about this experience to be down and come back.  I mean, I turn things around.   
 Q.  You know, all the players have lost a match in the round-robin play.  A lot have come in here and they have looked quite sad and despondent and very angry.  After you lost to Halep, it didn't seem as much that way with you.  How did you feel after that first match?  How did you rebound to play these two?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I was very sad and disappointing about my performance, not especially about the loss but more about the things that I was on court but I didn't do everything I need to do and everything I know how to play.   
And I was not -- I mean, the game was not (indiscernible), and that's what was frustrating me and that's why I was sad about my match, but it was also an experience to try to, yeah, manage emotion about this match.  It was different match than all year long, for sure.   
I mean, with my dad, we spoke a little bit, and the discussion really helped me to move forward.   
 Q.  Did you come into this tournament with expectations?  And what were they?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I was -- I came here, it was kind of weird, actually, to be here.  I mean, I qualified last minute, two weeks before.  I was, like, Okay, Zhuhai is nice.   
But, you know, I tried to prepare myself the best I could, but it was kind of weird to be here.  And I was, like, I really wanted to keep improving like I did in Asia, and, like, play every single match and get experience about it, because it's some girls I will play again next year, and I want to get experience about them and keep improving like I did.  That's why I think I won these two matches.   
 Q.  We obviously don't know what's going to happen in this group.  
CAROLINE GARCIA: We obviously don't (laughter).   
 Q.  But regardless of what's gonna happen, what would you say you take away from the three matches that you have played so far?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I mean, I did my part of the job.  I have nothing to regret about it if I don't make it through.  For sure it would be better if I do.  But it's not in my hands anymore.   
It was a great experience to be here, and it was some great matches and great battle, and it's the first time I beat Wozniacki.  Against Svitolina was another battle.   
Physically, I'm good.  I'm feeling good on the court, and it's great after this end of the season to be still fit and everything, so it's a lot of positives to take away.   
 Q.  Obviously we don't know what's going to happen, but if you get through, would you take Svitolina out to go shopping in the mall?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I don't know.  I don't know.  I mean, I guess she probably a little bit pissed about me for the last match, so I don't know (smiling).   
But, you know, I mean, I can always ask her out for a drink or something.  It's kind of weird.   
 Q.  I'm curious what you made of the crowd today.  They seemed to be really on your side.  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah.   
 Q.  It felt like we were in Paris in the third set, the umpire even saying "merci beaucoup" to quiet them.  What did you make of that?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah, it was really nice atmosphere, especially in the last set.  I mean, obviously changed from "Caroline" to "Garcia," it was, like, a little bit easier.  But I was surprised that it was this kind of -- I mean, there were obviously some French ones but there were also people from not France, and it was a nice atmosphere and I really enjoy it.   
 Q.  So now after you finish all this, do you stick around and watch how this match plays out?  What do you do?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I have to do my press, and then -- I mean, I think I will go back and do my recovery and be ready if I have to play tomorrow.  I mean, the last nights were not very good, so I need to get some sleep.   
 Q.  If you do make it through, you'll play Venus.  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah?  I don't even know.   
 Q.  Yeah, she's No. 2 out of that group.  
CAROLINE GARCIA: If I make it through, I'm No. 1?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Okay.  Why not?  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Apparently people are keeping you in the loop.  Yeah, you will play Venus if you make it through, Svitolina wins today.  Your thoughts about playing Venus, please.  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I mean, it's so weird to speak about a match I'm not even sure to play, you know.  I mean, I don't know.   
I mean, she did surprise me yesterday with her win against Muguruza in two sets.  Couple of times she were done but she always came back.   
I mean, she did an amazing season this year with two finals in Grand Slams.  It's great to see her capable of playing at this level, and at 37, it's kind of hard to believe, actually.   
It would be a very -- last match we played, I don't know what I did, actually.  But, I mean, she have a lot of experience.  She know how to manage these kind of matches, and I will have -- I will not be the aggressive player on court.  It will be different matches than my last three.  It will be very interesting for me if I make it through.   
 Q.  So the fan question is what is a movie, a TV show, or singer that you really like but maybe your friends or family don't?  Like somebody you really like but may not be totally popular with everybody else.  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I don't know.  I mean, I think my tastes are pretty normal, so I don't know.  I'm sorry, but this question is too difficult for me right now.  I have to think for an answer and maybe I can answer you later.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT