BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 23, 2017
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/C. Garcia
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A difficult start, but were you able to enjoy any of it?  How do you feel after that first round?
CAROLINE GARCIA: I mean, it's different feelings than most other matches in the other time, and because of course I'm disappointing about the loss, about my performance on court.  It was not the way I wanted, but, I mean, it's not over yet.  It's also an experience to -- I mean, I arrive to prepare myself very well in the last couple of matches I had in China, and today it was not as good as I wanted, but it's also part of the experience.  I will have to try to improve at this point for my next match and take experience about it.  But for sure it was special to get on court today.
Q. What do you think would have made the difference for you today?
CAROLINE GARCIA: I mean, I did couple of unforced errors at the wrong time, and the first set until  4-All was very tight, very intense.  I think it was difficult for both of us, but I couldn't keep going in this moment.
And then it change so fast for her, and I think this game at 4-All is very important.
Q. Walking out there, did you feel like it was different than walking out for another tournament, regular tournament?  What was it like on the court for you?  How did it feel?
CAROLINE GARCIA: For sure it was different.  I mean, I try to forget about all of this and just focus on the game and everything, but, you know, I'm not perfect yet, and probably will never be.
So just is an experience.  And for sure it was difficult to be only focused on myself, on the game.  When I walk on court, I know it was about the Masters and it was about something different.
And it's why I practice this way.  I play tennis at the moment I want to play, so I just -- I enjoy it.
Q. Does it seem any different?  Because obviously you lost today but you get to come back in two days and play again.
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah.
Q. You're not done.  And describe the feeling.
CAROLINE GARCIA: Of course I was very disappointing after the match, right after the match, but I had a good talk with my dad.  He told me, Yeah, you lost.  In all the other tournament you would be done and you would go back home, but here you have a chance to come back, to still learning, take the experience and try to make things different in the next match.
I have one little part of myself was disappointing about my performance of today.  But most of the other parts want to recover very well to be ready for next match.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about what makes her perhaps a little difficult to play?  Maybe talk a little bit about her footwork.
CAROLINE GARCIA: About Simona?
Q. Yeah, about Simona.
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah, she reads the game very well, I think, and she's pretty fast on her footwork and covering the court very well.
Sometimes she's far from baseline, but she knows how to get the ball a little bit faster and she use very well the ball of the opponent.
I think the surface here is a little bit slower than it was in China.  So, yeah, she always makes the other one play another ball, and it's not like an easy ball in the middle.  She makes you work a lot.
Q. Speaking of kind of experience and the court, so far the players who have never played on this court before haven't won a set.  Svitolina, too, lost the dropped the first set.  Do you think there is something to that?  Maybe when you're practicing on this court at all, do you feel like maybe if I get a few more hours or a few more hits, I'll feel more comfortable?  What do you think?
CAROLINE GARCIA: I mean, I don't know.  Match and practice is always very different, so I was feeling fine.  For sure today I feel the difference with outside hard court, I would say, that we would normally play on.  But when we always go inside, it's this kind of surface and it's different from all the year, because we are almost not play inside anymore.
So of course it's different.  And the court is slow, but it's like this.  You have to deal with it.  It's the same for everyone.  For sure it makes the game different, but it's a nice court, for sure.
Q. You mentioned how close that first set was.  Once you had lost that first set, did you feel it was tough for you to come back from that mentally?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah, the first set was very intense on both sides, I think.  I mean, after the loss of the first set, I was not down.  I was like always trying to come back, but it was couple of tight games in the beginning of the second.  I couldn't make it.  And then I couldn't find my rhythm again.  I was just going for too much.
Q. Just quickly, is it nice to have that winning streak off your back, or would you rather have kept going?
CAROLINE GARCIA: No, I mean, you always want to keep this winning streak on, but, you know, it's new matches, new tournament, and I know it was probably going to end one day.  So I'm just, like -- I just want to keep my improvement going.
Q. Jelena Ostapenko said she didn't get much time to actually prepare on the main center court.  Did you get any time on the court before?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah.
Q. You did?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah.  I think it was -- I mean, I got more time to play on the center court than I did before Wuhan or Beijing.  Like, much more time.  But I don't -- like, the indoor court on the other sites are not very different, but around it's very different.  I think that's more different.
Q. Just in terms of size and darkness --
CAROLINE GARCIA: Is very dark here around, and other sites is very open.  It's not the same conditions, I think, but I did play a lot on the center.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT