CHINA OPEN
October 8, 2017
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. GARCIA/S. Halep   
6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  When you had the winning point, you fell to your knees.  What were you thinking in that moment?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I was like, Seriously, this really happen?   
I mean, it was such an amazing two weeks.  It went so fast.  I have the feeling I started these tournaments yesterday or two days ago.  To play every single day, it was just after every match you had to forget about what happened and be on the present again.   
Even this morning I couldn't believe I was in the final.  Like to win it on my first match point in the tiebreak against Simona, new No. 1, it's very difficult for me to believe.  Even I looked at my dad, and it didn't help me to relax actually.   
It's just amazing.  It's difficult to put words on what I'm feeling right now.   
 Q.  What was the secret to the match today?  It was a tight one, a lot of pressure on your serve.  You were able to put some pressure on hers.  What was the key?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I mean, the key was definitely to be aggressive and try to dominate the rallies.  My serve was really an important thing because she's very good returner, always trying to bring back the return, start the rally.   
Sometimes when there was some rally, I was ready for them and was not looking for the winner too fast when I didn't have the balls.  That's what help me to get some points.   
I have to be aggressive, but I have to control myself sometimes (smiling).   
 Q.  The seventh game of the second set, nine breakpoints.  Did you know it was nine?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yes, because Benoit just told me couple minutes ago.  I mean, it's a lot, nine.  Already to come back from Love-40, it's a lot.  I was coming back to deuce, and I was losing this point again and again.  It was just, like, crazy.   
But, I mean, for sure it definitely turned the second set on the good way for me.  This game was definitely very important.   
 Q.  Of the 11 wins that you've had in China, which one was the biggest one for you?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I don't know.  I can't remember all of them already because it was so fast.  But I think every one of them was very important.  They all mean something for me.  They were all a different challenge from one match to another.   
It was, like, six in a row every day in Wuhan, and five in a row this week.  To be able to always refocus after every win, it was very important for me.  Was one point I wanted to improve.  That's what I did well for these two weeks.   
I mean, this year I didn't beat a top-10 player, and I beat three these two weeks, one No. 3, and one brand-new No. 1.  Does it count a No. 1 or no (smiling)?   
So, yeah, every one of them was very important.   
 Q.  It's your first premier mandatory title.  After the accomplishment, do you have any plan for what's next?  What is your primary task now, goal?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: It's not because you win a premier mandatory that your career is over.  You still have so many goals to achieve.   
Of course, to be a part of the top 10, it's a step in the career.  But I still have so many goals I want to achieve.  Of course, it give me confidence and it give me also motivation to work even harder to get some bigger trophy.   
Yeah, it's still so many tournament I want to win, so many things I want to do, for sure.   
 Q.  Are we allowed to talk about the next few weeks yet?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yes, you are (smiling).   
 Q.  First things first, are you going to play Tianjin?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I don't know yet.   
 Q.  When will you make that decision?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Tonight because I have to make it tonight.  It's difficult decision because I know it's not all played about Singapore.  Johanna is still playing in Moscow.  After I have to also think about my body.  It will not be smart if it's really bad to go over there and injure even more and not to be playing Singapore if I qualify.   
I have to still think about it.  I will see.   
 Q.  How badly is your thigh hurting?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I don't know.  I mean, after a win like this, all the body relax.  It sometimes doesn't get very well.  I mean, it's for sure painful.  I went through it since couple of days now.  But during the tournament, you have to go over the pain, and after you have to think and do some smart choice.   
 Q.  Have you asked anything about Moscow yet?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I mean, yeah.  My agent texted me and said, Do you want me to ask for a wild card?   
I say, Yeah, of course.   
So we'll see.   
 Q.  With all the accomplishments, Wuhan, Beijing, breaking into the top 10, potentially qualifying for Singapore, which means the most to you?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: It's like if you ask me to choose between ice cream, chocolate cake.  It's like, I don't know (smiling).   
It all means something.  To win a title, it always means something because you finish the week undefeated.  You stay forever a winner of this tournament.  So it definitely means something.   
To be in the top 10 also means something because it's a step in your career that you want to achieve.  You never know if you're going to reach it, but it's a very important goal.  It's mean you are a part of the top 10 best player in the world.   
To have the chance to be in the fight for Singapore, it's something after lat year in doubles give you motivation to do it in singles because, for sure, means more.   
It was in part of my head.  But, like, two weeks ago I was not really thinking about it.  I was happy to go in Zhuhai.   
Yeah, for sure it means something.  It will be a great achievement and a great finish for this year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT