HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 3, 2016
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. GARCIA/S, Stosur   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: English questions, please.   
 Q.  Just a few.  Late start this week.  Curious how the match went and what you think was the key to your win today.  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah, it was good to start only today, to have some single practice and get used to the condition.   
But it was also hard, because some people are already out, some are already qualifying, and you're only starting.   
No, I think it was really good and solid match from me.  The last singles match was not very good.  It was kind of complicated.  So I'm happy the way I played today and the way I came back in the first set.  I was on 4-1, double break.   
So it was good to win the first one.  After I got broken on the first game after two game point for me, but I came back strong and I was really calm all the way.   
 Q.  So you were pretty focused on doubles last week.  How do you feel the made the shift from doubles to singles?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Obviously good.  (Smiling.)  Yeah, but it's never easy.  We have to focus only on doubles in Singapore, and most of the time with Kristina we never practice doubles.  We always practice our singles.  So it was kind of the first week we did some doubles drills.   
It was really intense match over there in Singapore, really tough.  We did semis.  It was good, but we don't know, it was kind of so-so.  But we gave everything.  The other one was better, so after I just tried to focus on my single preparation.   
Here I have three days, so it was kind of the supervisor in the tournament to let me play today.   
 Q.  You have Konta next.  You've played twice this year.  How will you prepare for your next match?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: It will be really tough match.  Last time I played against her it was straight win and not a lot of games.   
So I think she had a great year.  She has a lot of confidence behind her and she's playing some aggressive game.   
So I will try to play my best.  If I can get some inspiration about today, it may help me tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT