ROGERS CUP
July 25, 2016
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. STRYCOVA/C. Garcia   
2-6, 6-3, 6-3   
An interview with:   
CAROLINE GARCIA   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  It was very close.  You had the wild card.  In the third set, in the seventh game, you had three breakpoints.  What happened?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: It's true that it was very close.  I started that match very well.  She had trouble adapting.  But then there were many tight games.  It was difficult for me to make a difference.  I made mistakes.   
 Q.  Is it difficult to deal with the rain delays?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Well, I didn't count how many there were, there were so many.  It rains very often.  In the French Open and Wimbledon and Gstaad, all these tournaments were a disaster.  Now I'm a bit fed up with the rain.   
 Q.  Is it difficult to come back in the match when you have to stop because of the rain?  Do the conditions change?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Well, it's been a few days.  It's been very humid here so the conditions didn't change much.   
Here, the rain delays were very short.  When you have two hours, you have time to rest and eat.  Here it was only 10 minutes and you had to go back on the court already.  So since this morning, I've eaten only two pieces of bread.   
I don't know which is better, short breaks or longer breaks.  Anyway, it's the same for both of us.   
Also, when we stopped at 3-2, I was coming back after being down Love-3.  I had trouble continuing with the same momentum when I came back on court.   
 Q.  Do you believe tournaments should invest and have roofs?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Well, normally you have to deal with rain when you play tennis.  But I think lately it has been raining a lot more than usual.  For us, the players, but also for the organizers and the crowd, it's a bit sad to see that matches can't be played.   
On center court there were only two matches today.  But a roof costs a lot of money.  We can't ask all the tournaments to do that.  Many can't afford it.   
 Q.  You had a wild card from the tournament.  Did you think you had something to prove to them?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I was very happy that Tennis Canada gave me the wild card so that I could play.  And when you have a wild card, you really want to play even better.   
There were good things in my match, but there were also some mistakes.  It's been the third time I played her this year, and I was never able to beat her.  So I lost in this first round.   
 Q.  There was that fan who was yelling during the match.  What happened?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I don't know what happened, but he didn't seem to be very sober.  I think he drank a lot before.  Normally spectators are more quiet.  Of course, you can applaud, but he was yelling really loud.   
It happens sometimes.  Someone took him out of the stadium.  My opponent and myself were not very happy because he was also yelling in the middle of a point.  But the problem was solved very quickly.   
 Q.  Was it difficult for you to focus again after that?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: No, it happens sometimes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT