ROLAND GARROS
May 23, 2016
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. GARCIA/L. Tsurenko   
6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Congratulations, first of all.  According to you, what's the difference between Caroline last year and Caroline this year, the winning Caroline?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: That's a tough question.  It's probably because I have more self-confidence.  In Strasbourg I played very well.  I think I learned.  I learned about myself.  I have worked hard, day after day, week after week.  It has been a long process.  Takes a lot of time.   
But my game has improved, and this is a very important tournament.  We're in France.  I wanted to do something.  I think I was quite good at managing my stress.  I managed to stay very focused, and each point counted.   
Today I made it.   
 Q.  So what did you do this year compared to last year?  Last year you said you had the impression you would never make it at the French Open.  
CAROLINE GARCIA: I can't compare.  It's just so different.  Of course, when you arrive on the court, there is tension.  But I think this year is very, very different from last year.  I had no specific expectations.  However, when I made it on the court today I just wanted to do my best.  I played with using my strengths.   
It wasn't a super match, but I think we waged the tough battle.  I think I'm quite happy, and I'm looking forward to the next round.   
 Q.  How did you manage things right after Strasbourg?  You had very little time to get ready for a Grand Slam.  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Well, when you've won a tournament it makes it a bit easier.  And you're right, the timing was very short.  It does feel a bit like I didn't stop since the final in Strasbourg.  That same day I took the train late in the evening and the next morning I had to go to the site, had to train.  It was raining, which wasn't making things easy.   
I tried to make myself at home.  Maybe it wasn't a bad thing after all to come so late.  I never was here, really here, until today.  I think it was better.  It was certainly very good for my self-confidence, and I'm very happy I won Strasbourg and today's game.   
 Q.  The second set you were losing 5-2.  How did you manage to turn things around?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: As I said before, I have done my very best to focus on my game play.  The beginning of the second set I did not play very well, and she was much better.  She was playing a lot of backhand strokes along the line.  I stayed the focus.  I was trying to put more spin in my balls.  And then she started to make some mistakes at important moments.  So I did my very best.   
Last year I was losing against Virginie, but I was able to win.  And before it's over, it's not over.   
 Q.  How about the next round?  What do you think?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Well, I asked about the first round, and now I know about the second round.  I know she will be the favorite, but I'm sure it will be a great match.  I will do my very, very best.  I will do what I know, and I will do my best to serve well and use my right hand and use my usual strengths.   
 Q.  So it feels like Roland Garros could be cool for you?  
CAROLINE GARCIA: Last year I learned it was tough, and I will come back.  I will come back and eventually the tables will turn.  I don't know when, but again, I truly enjoy being here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT