ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2015
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  D. VEKIC/C. Garcia3-6, 6-3, 6-2An interview with:CAROLINE GARCIATHE MODERATOR: Questions in French.Q. It's a bitter disappointment, total disappointment.  Why is it the case?  Is it a matter of pressure?  Maybe you were not relaxed?  How can you analyze the match?CAROLINE GARCIA: I don't know if it's a bitter disappointment.  I am disillusioned, every French Open I can't play tennis whether I'm playing a top-10 player or Vekic, who is a good player.  I can't make it here.  It doesn't depend on the opponent.  It just depends on myself, and I can't play here at the French Open and hope that it will change in the future.Q. So you were one set up and a break up in the second set.  Things went well.  So what happened?CAROLINE GARCIA: It was okay, but I didn't play good tennis.  I mean, I can play far better.  We made lots of unforced errors, and she was making more unforced errors in the first set.  That's why I won the first set. But I didn't feel relaxed during the match, and when she got into the match, I couldn't play any longer.  That's the way it is.  What else can I say?  I can't add anything.Q. I mean, were you under stress in the past few days?  Maybe you would have preferred playing on a smaller court?CAROLINE GARCIA: Yes, I have made that request.  I wanted to play on a smaller court.  But that's the way it is.  They decided to organize the match on center court, on Philippe Chatrier, and I practiced for the whole week. But it's very different, it's very different to practice, in fact.  This is something that I know, and I will draw lessons from that.  For next year I hope I will go through to the next round.Q. Is it pressure that you put upon your shoulders or there is a lot of media coverage?  People are talking about you.  So what is very difficult for you to handle?  What can you tell us about it?CAROLINE GARCIA: It's very tough for me to play in Paris, far more difficult than in other tournaments. I'm quite emotional at times.  I mean, when you are emotional, it can be a benefit.  Today it was a drawback.  So far being too emotional hasn't helped me, so I will continue to work and to make strides.Q. Why do you feel, why is it complicated to play on center court and Philippe Chatrier court?CAROLINE GARCIA: It's a big court.  I mean, I watched many matches on TV on this center court, on Philippe Chatrier court.  It does encapsulate what Roland Garros is.  For me, it's too much to play on this court, and next year I will ask to play on court No. 9, a sort of hidden court where there is nobody.Q. Have you talked about it with Amélie Mauresmo?  Not today of course, but have you talked about that with Amélie Mauresmo?  Because she faced the same problem.  Did you have the opportunity to talk about it?CAROLINE GARCIA: Never.Q. Could you talk about it with her?CAROLINE GARCIA: Yes.  It could be a good idea to talk about it, but we all have our own problems, our own solutions.  Haven't yet found the right solution to play good tennis here.  We will see what happens next year.Q. You were talking about being too emotional.  Are you working on that, or do you want some outside support, outside help in order to work on the emotional aspects?CAROLINE GARCIA: I don't know.  I can't give you an answer.  We will see what's gonna happen.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT