DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2014
Cara Black
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 HINGIS‑PENNETTA/Black‑Garcia
  6‑4, 5‑7, 12‑10 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   Caroline, you played really well in this event in both singles and the doubles.   Will that add to your performance in China Open and Beijing?   Which one do you think is your like emphasis, singles or doubles?  
CAROLINE GARCIA:   I'm playing more singles and doubles, and my goals is definitely more singles, but if I can do both, doubles is always a great experience.   So I want to take it, and it can help me also for my singles to move more forward and gain confidence in myself at the net.  
Yeah, I took doubles and I do the best I can in every doubles I play and to improve my singles, also.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   My question is for Cara.   First, your previous partner has decided to partner with Hsieh Su‑Wei from Chinese Taipei.   Have you found your new partner for next year?   And the second question, in last year's China Open, the audience were deeply impressed by the sight when you put your son together with the trophy and take a picture.   So how do you strike the balance between family and matches?  
CARA BLACK:   Yeah, I haven't really decided on next year yet, so that's still in the plans.   
But, yeah, last year's China Open was a great event for us, you know, one of the first big tournaments I won after having my son, so it was ‑‑yeah, it was a wonderful moment, him running on the court and putting him in the trophy.   Great memories and great photos.  
And, yeah, it was‑‑ you know, it's been like here in Wuhan this week.   The fans have really been great and loving the tennis, so looking forward to Beijing again next week.   
   
 Q.   My question is to Garcia.   We know that regarding the schedule of China Open you will play Peng Shuai in the first round.   
CAROLINE GARCIA:   Who?   Shuai Zhang.   I don't play Peng Shuai.  
   
 Q.   You don't play Peng Shuai?   
CAROLINE GARCIA:   I play Shuai Zhang.   But maybe my accent...   
   
 Q.   Zhang Shuai?   Yeah, yeah, yeah.   How much do you know about her?   Are you looking forward to that?  
CAROLINE GARCIA:   I have played doubles with her this year, so I know she's great player and playing aggressive also like me, so I will have to be more aggressive than her at the beginning of the point.   
So I know it is going to be a big match, and there will be a lot of crowd behind her.   So it will be tough for me.  
But I will have to recover well and get ready for the first match of China Open.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   Garcia, how is your right hand right now?  
CAROLINE GARCIA:   It's good.   It's just prevention for, because I had a lot of matches this week.   So it's just prevention for next week and getting at the best the quicker I can.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT