DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 22, 2014
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. GARCIA/A. Radwanska
  3‑6, 7‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   First of all, I would like to extend my congratulations to you.   In the last press conference, Aga gives high comments on your performance for today's match.   So my question is it is the first time for you to be here, so do you feel good at Wuhan?  
CAROLINE GARCIA:   Yeah, it's a great tournament, and I played good and I feel great on court and I'm doing what I like to do, and I just play aggressive and do the best I can do and always fighting.   
Against a player like this, you have always to be confident in your game and just go for it.   Doesn't matter the score.   You just have to go and play your game and believe in what you're doing.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   So what's your opinion on you are given the title of the French champion of the tennis players?   
CAROLINE GARCIA:   I didn't understand.  
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   The public opinion gives you the title of the French champion female tennis player.   
CAROLINE GARCIA:   Chinese guys?   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   You are given the title of the French brilliant, genius...   
CAROLINE GARCIA:   Okay, okay, thanks.   No, it's good.  
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   So yesterday you defeated Venus Williams, and for today's match you defeated Aga.   So how did you manage to adjust your condition for the match?  
CAROLINE GARCIA:   No, I know that I work a lot at the gym and on the court, and I know I'm fit to do a match like this and big fight, long match with tiebreak and everything.   
So I believe on what I did, and I know I can do it.   On the court I just try to always play the same game and be aggressive anyway what kind of opponent I do have in front of me.   
Yeah, it's pretty different game between Venus and Radwanska, but I did the same game for myself and just continue to do like this in the week.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   So for today's match you have 16 winners and 57 mistakes for the unforced errors.   So how would you give your comments on your performance today at the court?  
CAROLINE GARCIA:   Against these kind of girls like Radwanska you have to do the game and you're often doing the winners and unforced errors, so you have to‑‑ you know she will not give you any points, so you have to keep, to take the point and like just go forward.   
Sometime you can miss, but I knew it was the only way I can win this today.   So I did some mistake what I continue to do, and I win so it was a good plan.  
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   Actually, your performance today mentioned people that Li Na.   Do you know Li Na before?   Will you give comment on Li Na's performance.  
CAROLINE GARCIA:   Yeah.   I know she was a great player, so it was like a big thing that she decide to retire, but she did amazing career.  
I just wish her the best for next life after tennis, and she brings so much to tennis in Asia and even everywhere in the world.   
She did amazing all around her career, and always trying to improve.   So I wish her the best.  
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   The last question, what's your favorite male or female tennis players?  
CAROLINE GARCIA:   Roger Federer.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   Just now I have received messages there are three new fans of you.   
CAROLINE GARCIA:   Oh, great.  
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   Actually, before you attend the Wuhan Open there are few people know your name, but after the two matches two days in a row you have become famous here, so for the new fans here, would you like to tell something to the fans?  
CAROLINE GARCIA:   No, it's great for me, and what I did here it's like give pleasure to those ones, so just continue to follow me and I will do everything I can to improve and get better every day.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   Actually, at the game point we mentioned that your coach tell you something, so can you give us some details of the conversation between you and your coach?  
CAROLINE GARCIA:   He always tell me that I have to be aggressive and go forward if I can and just manage the point the most I can, so just play like this and always believe I can do it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT