HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 2, 2018
Caroline Garcia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. GARCIA/A. Sabalenka
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How gutting is it to miss out on the semifinals just by one game?
CAROLINE GARCIA: I don't know how to describe it.  After yesterday match, I was -- I wanted to win today, but I was not really thinking about qualify for the semifinal.  And after, you know, I don't know how it will be if we were both winning 6-4, 6-4 actually.  It's tricky to finish actually third.  It's even worse maybe.
But I'm happy with the win today.  It was a good match.  I played Aryna two times already this year and I lost both times in three-set battle.
So I was happy with the win today.  I played solid.  It was much better than yesterday.  So it's still a win.  But, of course, it's disappointment to finish third.
Q. A strong finish to the season for you with Tianjin and everything.  How much did that mean, especially just obviously the disappointment that it seemed like you were kind of feeling at times throughout your season that was a little up and down, but to finish on a good note?
CAROLINE GARCIA: Yeah, of course it was a complicated season.  There was a lot of up and down, not a lot of ups obviously.  But, you know, I keep training hard and I kept fighting.  In Chinese tournament in Beijing, it started to get better.  I lost a tough one against Aryna, but in the game, it was so much better.  It gave me motivation.
In Tianjin, the first couple of match was not good, but win there.  And then it got better.  To win against Pliskova was a good win for me.  It was important.
Of course the win of today against Aryna is also positive.  It gave me some positive to finish the year.  My game is still here.  It's not like it disappeared.  I able to play a good level of tennis.  I want to keep fighting and continue practice for the offseason.
Q. I was wondering if you and your father and your family have talked about, in terms of going into the offseason, whether or not you're thinking about making any changes ahead into 2019, new physio or anything like that team-wise, or is it just going to be you and your family?
CAROLINE GARCIA: We haven't really think about it, you know.  It's tough to think about things like this when the season is not done yet, you don't have relief time.
Tianjin you have ten days, but you want to rest a little bit because you know it's going to be a long trip again.  I didn't really think about it.  I don't even know where I'm going to do it.
So, you know, I need couple of days to think about it.  But I don't think it's going to be big changing.
I think this offseason can be a better one than the previous year if my back is doing better like it was last couple of months.  It's good for me.  I can improve and can develop.
Because the last couple of season was complicated.  It was just trying to fix it.  It's maybe going be to be maybe not fun, but I will be happy to do more.
Q. So yesterday during the press conference you mentioned that you had the back pain.  Does that pain actually affect your performance today?  Also how are you feeling today?
CAROLINE GARCIA: I said yesterday that I had pain the last couple of days.  It didn't allow me to practice like I wanted to practice.  I put a lot of energy to try to recover from it and try to fix it.
Yesterday, I didn't serve for it.  I was not finding the rhythm and everything.  Actually, even though the match of yesterday was very bad, it helped me to play a better match today, because I could have a better rhythm.
It was not painful.  It was just -- you know, when you're coming back from injury, it's always complicated mentally about the feeling on court.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT