NASCAR NATIONWIDE SERIES: FORD ECOBOOST 300
November 15, 2014
Kyle Busch
Kyle Larson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KERRY THARP:   At this time let's hear from Kyle Busch.   Kyle, heck of a season you had in this series.   Just talk about the race out there today and how you thought things played out. 
KYLE BUSCH:   Yeah, we had a strong car.   Somewhere in the middle part of the race we started falling behind a little farther than I wanted to, just ill handling, being loose, tight, loose, and everything going on.   But Adam made some great race calls and some good adjustments to get our car handling a little bit better, to get ourselves farther up toward the front.   The 20 was kind of off there early on in the race, but there at the end he really came on strong and the 42 was really good. 
So it was kind of a race amongst us three, I thought, and that's kind of what it came down to there at the end.   All in all, can't be prouder of my team, Adam Stevens and Curtis and everyone that works so hard on the Monster Energy 54 at Joe Gibbs Racing, all the guys at the shop.   It's been fun the last couple of years.   You know we've come up short just a little bit last year by one point, a little bit more than that this year, but, shoot, besides winning more races, finishing every single race in the top four besides the Speedway race, I don't know what else I could have done.   We did our part and we had some great races, and we did have a successful year, so nothing to hang our hats about, but there's one other guy or team out there that was a little bit better than us. 
KERRY THARP:   Kyle Larson, talk about your run out there tonight.   It looked like you had a car that was capable of the win and Matt got you on the last restart. 
KYLE LARSON:   Yeah, we were able to lead a lot of laps today, a lot more than I've probably ever led in my career.   That was fun.   I had good restarts up there until the last 50 laps or so, and then I finally got a good one underneath Matt, was able to get to the lead, and was about 15 feet short of the win.   And then we got the yellow, and I thought the 12 had been getting really good restarts, so I wanted to start in front of him, and spun my tires a little bit, and the 20 was able to hang with me there.   And I was side drafting him down the front stretch, and he was able to shake or swerve at me and get me shaken off of him.   Then I spun my tires into 1, got me sideways, and I was three wide there.   That was all the 20 needed to win. 
Almost had second, but Kyle was able to squeeze around me.   I probably could have shut the door on him, but we weren't going to win, so there was no point in maybe tearing up two cars.   Disappointed, super disappointed.   Really close to a win today. 

Q.   Kyle Larson, I take it from what you just said that lane choice was not the factor on that last restart and you wouldn't do it differently if you had to do it over again? 
KYLE LARSON:   Well, I probably would try it differently maybe, but I think had I gotten the same jump, which wasn't a very good one, Kyle probably would have got to my outside into 1.   Who knows, it's hard to‑‑ it's easy to go back and point to what you could have done differently, but you never really know if it would be the same or a different result. 

Q.   Kyle Larson, kind of on the same topic, Scott said you should take the top. 
KYLE LARSON:   It was my spotter. 

Q.   Did you think about discussing it with him or had you by then already decided to take the bottom? 
KYLE LARSON:   I kind of was deciding on taking the bottom the whole caution, and then he said if it was him, he'd choose the top, and it kind of got me thinking.   But I just wanted to do what I thought would work, that way I could be more mad at myself rather than mad at anybody else.   I'm sure he's upset with me right now, but we get along great.   But yeah, I don't know, he gets more disappointed than I do after some races, so he's probably really‑‑ he's probably crying on the way back to Key Largo right now. 
KERRY THARP:   Kyle and Kyle, congratulations on a big season.   Obviously both of y'all have some work still to do tomorrow.   Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT