NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: ALL-STAR RACE
May 18, 2013
Kyle Busch
Joey Logano
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KERRY THARP:   Let's roll into our post‑race for tonight's NASCAR Sprint All‑Star Race, and our third place finisher is Kyle Busch.   He drove the No.18 Snickers Bites Toyota for Joe Gibbs Racing, and Kyle, talk about the run out there this evening for your race team. 
KYLE BUSCH:   Yeah, it was really good.   Obviously I felt like we had a really, really fast race car.   The Snickers Bites Camry was awesome, probably the best car here, just ran up front most of the night and had really good runs through the segments there, we had two of them, and average wise we were right there with Kurt.   He beat us out a little bit.   Ultimately it came down to pit road where my guys always prove their worth.   Unfortunately tonight we didn't have the best of stops and come out third and that was the race right there.   You've got to be on the front row if you're going to win this thing, and unfortunately there on the restart getting side drafted and sucked around and hit from behind and loose and everything else, I had to finally get straight and get everybody off me to be able to race, and once I could do that I could go forward. 
Just another missed opportunity here with the best car with me behind the wheel and come home without a win.
KERRY THARP:   Our second place finisher is Joey Logano.   He drives the No.22 Pennzoil Ford for Penske Racing.   Joey, just talk about how you thought things went out there this evening and how you thought things stacked up there that last 10 laps for you. 
JOEY LOGANO:   It was entertaining to say the least.   I thought all my guys did a great job calling the race, keeping that average finish up.   I thought we were a fifth to sixth place car in the beginning of the race and we just needed to get track position and I felt like if we got our track position we could run decent.   I think we averaged fifth and then we came down pit road, beat one car out which put us in the second row, and in the back of my mind before the race started I felt like I needed to be in the second row with 10 to go to at least have a shot at this thing.   My guys got me what I needed there and then it was up to me to make of the most of what I had.   The 48 was really, really fast.   Once he got that clean air he was gone.   All I could do was hope for clean air and try to stack everything up and give it one more shot. 
Second is nothing to hang our head down, but it doesn't mean much when there's no points.   It's all about the million bucks tonight. 

Q.   How much do you think what we saw tonight looking forward to next week, are the teams and drivers we saw tonight going to be the same ones we're going to look at in the 600 or is it totally different? 
KYLE BUSCH:   I think relatively you'll see some of the same players but I felt like we saw a lot of players tonight.   I think we saw about five or six.   Certainly Kurt and I winning the segments, but Jimmie coming from that far back and winning the overall deal, he's a car.   Joey finishing second, they had a strong night.   You could look at the 5, the 5 was up there, he had a good average, and I don't know what was going on behind that.   That's probably my picks. 
JOEY LOGANO:   Yeah, I mean, everyone is going to come back and try to be better, including ourselves.   But I would assume you're going to have similar hitters up there just like you do every other week. 
KERRY THARP:   Guys, thanks for your patience and thanks for putting on a great show this weekend for us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT