NASCAR CUP SERIES: BASS PRO SHOPS NIGHT RACE
September 19, 2020
Kyle Busch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by our second‑place finisher, Kyle Busch, driver of the No.18 Skittles Toyota for Joe Gibbs Racing. We'll go right into questions for Kyle.   
   
 Q. Kyle, do you feel good just about having a little bit of momentum or are you just frustrated over finishing second?   
KYLE BUSCH: Frustrated over finishing second. You know, just felt like this was one of our greater shots to win, and I don't know. You know, just come up short.   
You know, Skittles Camry was fast and we had a good car, one that was in contention all night long. Fired off the start of the race, I was like, oh, wow, this is a pretty good car and then got beat by another really good car, I guess. Yeah, that's all there is to it.   
   
 Q. Were you frustrated at all with Logano or is it hard to‑‑ you know you're going to have lap traffic and you just need to have the car that's able to‑‑ do you just kind of have to pick the right lane?   
KYLE BUSCH: He's nobody's friend for a reason, so there you have it.   
   
 Q. Watching it live it looked like there was a shot that if you wanted to you could have just dumped Harvick. Is it the fact that you have too much respect for him to do that? What is the reason you don't just sail it in there and do something like that?   
KYLE BUSCH: It actually never crossed my mind. You always try to win races clean. You always try to race hard and race clean and get the job done right. Yeah, I mean, if that lap car wasn't there, I would have blown it in on the outside or the inside and maybe we would have banged each other's doors or whatever and had a greater finish to the checkered, but some of them dips‑‑‑ kids don't know what the hell they're doing or where they're at and can't stay out of the way. Nothing like a Gase and a Smithley.   
   
 Q. Where do you assess your team compared to Hamlin, Harvick, those guys, heading into round 2?   
KYLE BUSCH: Where are we at on the playoff ranking?   
   
 Q. I don't have it in front of me, I'm sorry.   
KYLE BUSCH: 10th? We're 10th, compared to them being first and second.  
   
 Q. In terms of speed and everything, performance, do you guys feel like you're close?   
KYLE BUSCH: No.   
   
 Q. How do you feel about continuing your Chase for the Championship in Las Vegas next weekend?   
KYLE BUSCH: We'll be eliminated in the next round, so don't care.   
   
 Q. I noticed in the closing laps it was kind of alternating between which lane was more advantageous. What makes one lane more advantageous than the other here at Bristol?   
KYLE BUSCH: It was just a matter of where lap traffic was. You were just‑‑ if guys were on the outside you were trying to plug the bottom, if they were on the bottom you were trying to go around the outside. Some of those guys were running different lanes and then switching when you got there, so that was kind of complicated for you to be able to pick and choose on which ones you wanted to take or where you wanted to go in order to pass them. But you know, that's kind of always, I guess, the case here at Bristol a little bit.   
THE MODERATOR: Kyle, thank you for taking the time to join us, and we will see you next weekend at Vegas.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT