MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: GOBOWLING AT THE GLEN
August 5, 2018
Kyle Busch
Martin Truex, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by our second‑place finisher, Martin Truex Jr., driver of the 5‑Hour Energy Bass Pro Shops Toyota for Furniture Row Racing.   
   
 Q. Even if you hadn't run out of fuel, how much of that car was left, brakes, tires, that sort of thing?   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: You know, enough to be faster than the 9, just not enough to pass him. I could get right to him. I chased him down from a ways back after that restart. I took a little too long to get around the 41. He checked up, got a lead on us, I just tried all I could to chase him down, and I got there with plenty of time, it's just every time I'd start putting together some good corners and get close enough to him to even think about making a move, I'd get sideways behind him. He did a good job of putting his car exactly where it needed to be and not making a mistake.   
I was too loose all day on exit on all the corners. I couldn't get the power down good enough, and running behind him there, just burned my rear tires off trying to make something happen.   
You know, he missed Turn 1 on the final lap, but I missed the inner loop on the final lap and lost five car lengths to him, so when he made that mistake in 1, I was too far back to capitalize. Like I said on TV, we ran out of gas anyway coming off of Turn 5 that last lap, so it was really all a moot point. He was going to win regardless.   
Congrats to him on his first win. That's a big deal for those guys, and they've been so close. Chase did a great job, and they earned it, so congrats to them.   
   
 Q. With all the pressure you were putting on him for basically those last 20 laps, were you surprised that he was able to drive that last without a mistake the way he did?   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: Not really. I mean, I think he's an experienced driver now, and he's been here enough. He had a really fast race car this weekend. You know, really his car was faster than mine everywhere but the braking zones at the end. You know, if you can't get runs off the corner, it's really hard to pass guys. Like I said, I could get to him, I just couldn't do anything with him once I got there. I was just way too loose on exit.   
We tried, and we come up short, but it was a good day and a solid effort by everybody on the team. We did good, we got a bonus point, so that was good. We obviously would have like to get another win, but we weren't the best car today. It was my turn, and I didn't capitalize, so that's a missed opportunity.   
THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by our third‑place finisher, Kyle Busch, driver of the M&M's Crunchy Mint Toyota for Joe Gibbs Racing.   
   
 Q. Martin, were you aware of what the fuel situation was on that final run?   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: Cole said we were real close, but he thought we were in better shape than the 9 for whatever reason. Obviously I had to run my you‑know‑what off to try to do something with him, so I burned up more gas that last run, clearly burned up my tires, as well, so it was all for naught.  
   
 Q. Is there any update on your contract situation?   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: No.   
   
 Q. Kyle, as far as what was going through your head when Adam Stevens said he only got eight gallons of fuel in the No.18 Toyota?   
KYLE BUSCH: Sounds familiar. Every year we come here, we have a fast car and fail to execute, whether that's just called bad luck or whatever. Last year we had a lug nut get stuck in the caliper, this year we had fueling problems. It never ceases to amaze me. Nothing surprises me anymore.  
   
 Q. Does it surprise you the kind of effort you put in to come from 26th to third?  
KYLE BUSCH: Does it surprise you?   
   
 Q. No, not in the least.   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: It surprises me.   
   
 Q. If you had heard the crew chiefs warning their drivers, he's coming, he's on a mission, we heard this‑‑ you know, I can't explain what you do behind the wheel.   
KYLE BUSCH: I mean, yeah, it's hard work. It was a heck of a lot harder than it should have been. But that was the predicament we were put in, and we had to go work. I certainly gave Joe his money's worth today, maybe even a couple more races. You know, overall just‑‑ we had a fast race car. I can't say enough about our guys, our shop, everybody at TRD engines, everything that gave us that opportunity. We just failed to capitalize, so it's a disappointing day, no question.   
   
 Q. It seemed like the intensity in this race was just ramped up from lap 1. Was that unexpected, or were you expecting that? Will we see that at the Roval, too?   
MARTIN TRUEX JR.: I think it's just Watkins Glen. This place is really fast. You've got to attack. You're on a razor's edge here, so I guess it always looks like we're all out of control because we kind of are, I guess. I think because of that, that's why a lot of people like this track. It's a lot of fun. But you've got to drive the crap out of it to be good. So it's pretty neat.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT