MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: STP 500
March 26, 2018
Kyle Busch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We're going to roll into our post‑race for the STP 500, and we're now joined by our second‑place finisher, Kyle Busch, driver of the No.18 M&M's Caramel Toyota. A second‑place finish for your team. We know you always prefer to be celebrating in Victory Lane, but take us through your day this afternoon at Martinsville.   
KYLE BUSCH: Yeah, we just tried to maintain and keep ourselves in the right position, in the right spots all day long on them long runs and save our stuff as much as we could to see if we couldn't mount a charge late in the going. For us, saving our stuff, the 14 was able to save his stuff, and he was a little bit better than we were. He was able to kind of edge out there through the early laps of firing off each and every time, first 10, 15, and kind of get that gap, and then he'd kind of just hold that. He was probably saving just as much as I was trying to save to make sure he had something to go at the end.   
He was fast enough there at the end to‑‑ and had enough gap that he was able to hold us off. You know, just close. We're right there, just not being able to knock it through.   
   
 Q. You've had a great start to the season, obviously, without getting a win. Is it very frustrating to be that close and not get it, or are you pleased to be that good this far into the season?   
KYLE BUSCH: I mean, we take solace, sure, but you know, ultimately we're here to win each and every week. I know everybody is, but we've been that close each and every week, so we're right there, we're knocking on the door. We're trying. I wouldn't say it's one particular thing that we can pinpoint, we've just been beat by somebody kind of hitting it a little bit more than we have. And we've been the closest thing to everybody each and every week. We're getting beat by different guys. The SHR team is certainly probably one of the better teams right now, but we're right there knocking at their heels.   
   
 Q. You mentioned that you were trying to save some stuff and possibly go for a charge there late at the end. Was there any point in the last 100 laps where you felt like you could have gotten close to him and tried to get there?  
KYLE BUSCH: There was once or twice, I probably got held up with some lap traffic, and over the entire run, I probably lost 10, 15 car lengths just by lap cars getting side by side, but I'm sure he could say the same thing. I only lost by five car lengths, but still, there was some times where certainly you get a little bit messed up and you mistime some lap cars, and they kind of get in your way or get side‑by‑side because they start racing or whatever. A couple times of that, but other than that, just didn't quite have it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT