MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: FORD ECOBOOST 400
November 19, 2017
Kyle Busch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We're joined by our second‑place finisher, driver of the No.18 Toyota, Kyle Busch. I know it didn't turn out the way you wanted it to, but that was a hell of an exciting end to that race.   
KYLE BUSCH: Yeah, it wasn't quite what we wanted there at the end. I thought we had a really great race car, especially on the long runs we were really, really good. Just came down to there at the end not having enough tire when I got to the 78, so I just overused my stuff, and I knew I overused my stuff when I was running with the 22 trying to get by him and just overworked everything and got to the 4, got by him pretty quick, I tried to make sure that I could do that pretty quick so then I could have at least a little more tire life, but didn't seem to pay me off any when I got to the 78.   
Thanks to all my guys, everybody on this M&M's Caramel team. Our Toyota Camrys were fantastic this year. The work from TRD and everybody at Joe Gibbs Racing has really come together and done a fantastic job. I feel really bad we come up a spot short, given I thought we had the best car today, and I guess that's why it's called racing, and you've got to run it out.   
   
 Q. A couple times you made a couple charges and got within a couple or three car lengths of Martin. Where were you making those gains?   
KYLE BUSCH: A couple times it was exit, a couple times it was entry. You know, just seemed like the more I could just slide through the slip of the tire that I could make up ground, but it wasn't rewarding me any. It was actually probably a deficit.   
But I did try a couple laps to get the car under control and to slow it down and to get the tire back underneath me, so I lost ground, and there was only one way to go, and that was just to over‑drive it. I tried to stay, and if he made a mistake or if he caught the wall or something like that, then I could try to pounce. But that never happened. He did a good job and got himself a championship.   
   
 Q. I just wondered if you could talk about the late‑race strategy there to stay out on that pit stop. If it works out for you guys, it looked like you would easily win the race but it cost you some track position there?  
KYLE BUSCH: Yeah, it did cost us track position, but I was all for it. The last couple nights we've seen NASCAR leave it green, and they let them race it out, so I thought that was going to be kind of the strategy, but I guess when you're going to win by 12 seconds or something, then you'd better get a caution when you can get one.   
I don't know. I don't know if there was really stuff out there. I didn't see anything out there. I don't know what was the leading cause to throwing the caution, but it's always inevitable. It's always going to happen. So I guess that just‑‑ we just didn't think of it, and it bit us.   
THE MODERATOR: Kyle, congratulations on a great season. Thank you, and we look forward to seeing you in Daytona.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT