NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 10, 2016
Kyle Busch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What an up‑and‑down evening for Kyle Busch. At one time Adam Stevens took a big swing at the car. Seemed like you came straight to the front. Were you thinking at that point we might have something for the 78?  
KYLE BUSCH: I thought so, yeah. We did pass a few cars there early in the run, but that was sort of when we felt like we were good on the front side of the run all night, but we would just taper off after four laps. That was our front side. It needed to be about 45. But we just couldn't‑‑ we just didn't hit it. I thought we were really good in practice. I thought we had a good shot at it, and I don't know what happened, but tonight just wasn't our night. It's unfortunate that we didn't have a better M&M's Camry, but we move on and we go to next week to Chicago. We tested there a few weeks back for all of our team guys here, so hopefully we've got a good package.  
   
 Q. Now the Chase obviously starts and the pressure ramps up a little bit. But how do you feel about round 1 and how that shapes for your 18 team?  
KYLE BUSCH: I like it. You know, been running really solidly at New Hampshire the last few years. We did last year in this race coming up, we did have a tire failure and we blew a tire, but Chicago has been good for us, decent place to run top 10 for sure, and then Dover, of course, is a really good place for us. I like it. You know, it seems like it's a good round for us to be able to score some wins. As long as you get one, that moves you on through. Doesn't matter how many you get after that, but we'll see how it goes. Just a matter of trying to manage your losses essentially and make sure you can come out of races with good finishes.  
   
 Q. Is there a way to describe to the fans at home how the intensity from tonight changes to next week at Chicago and how that's different?  
KYLE BUSCH: Apparently there was plenty of intensity tonight. I thought there was way too many yellows. It was kind of crazy the way the race played out and guys having to save tires there towards the end when we used up most of our allotments there early on. But it was interesting, too, because you had guys that were up front, guys who would go to the back and flip‑flop on tire strategy. I thought it was an interesting race for sure from our perspective, maybe too interesting on our front, but we made the most of it tonight and just didn't get in the right lane there on that restart. The 34 rolled over and we weren't able to restart 12. That's where Larson restarted and you see where he finished. That could have been us, but it wasn't, and we move on.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT