NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 10, 2016
Kyle Busch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by Kyle Busch, driver of the No.18 M&M's 75th Anniversary Toyota for Joe Gibbs Racing. Kyle has four wins in the regular season, and as the reigning Sprint Cup Series champion enters the 2016 Chase as the No.1 seed.   
Kyle, just talk about your outlook heading into the Chase next week.   
KYLE BUSCH: I guess our outlook is okay. We certainly wish we would have had a better night here at Richmond. I've seen those days here before where we haven't run very well, we struggled a little bit, and were fine in the final 10 races.   
So this one doesn't necessarily mean a whole lot. You'd kind of like to have the momentum heading in your direction and going the right way for you. But as the No.18 team, we've got some work to do. So hopefully we can work figure those things out those things that we're missing, just key little components, and get better.   
Adam and the guys are doing a great job. We certainly made a lot of gains on our car tonight and probably finished about where we were going to anyway. But certainly had an opportunity to run second there. Restart lane just didn't quite go our way there at the end.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for Kyle.   
   
 Q. Kyle, you won the championship last year, been there, done that, know what to expect. But the new Chase formats, they have little quirks to them every year, things go different ways. We saw Jimmie get eliminated at Dover last year. How much do those potential little nagging issues weigh in the back of your mind as you head through the rounds?  
KYLE BUSCH: Yeah, I mean, it's the same for everybody. Harvick was really strong at Chicago. He got a flat and wrecked. I think we had four or five second‑place finishes in Loudon, then we blew a tire at Loudon. It was a race we had bad luck.   
We've had good fortune before. Last year we made it through barely each and every round. I think we were the last car to transfer through every time. Doesn't matter if you're the first car or the last car, as long as you get through the next one, you've got an opportunity to keep racing for a championship. That's what it's all about.  
You know, I feel like the first round's a good round for us. It's strong. But you got to have solid finishes and try to minimize your bad days.   
   
 Q. Kyle, having gone down this road last year, do you feel like your team is better, your performance is better, just all around you guys are in a better position this year than you were last year, or is it about the same, or what?  
KYLE BUSCH: I kind of feel about the same actually. I feel like we kind of are right even with where we were last year, kind of doing the same things. But there are other guys that are better than us. So we're just going to have to figure out how to out‑race them and out‑finish them when we need to.   
A couple of our teammates, the 78 especially, he's just been stellar fast each and every week. He's had some bad luck go his way and hasn't been able to finish all the races where he should have.   
You can see that in the Chase as well, too, happen to you and take you out of a round. That's how you got to be careful and try to, again, minimize your bad days and make it forward.   
THE MODERATOR: Kyle, thank you for coming in. Good luck next week.   
KYLE BUSCH: Thank you.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT