NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: GEICO 500
May 1, 2016
Kyle Busch
Austin Dillon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We are joined by our second‑place finisher, Kyle Busch.   
Kyle, tell us about your day out there.   
KYLE BUSCH: It was all right, I guess. We had some decent speed, had a decent car. Just lucky, I guess, to come home with a top‑five finish and be in second.   
Our Skittles Camry was fast, but just wasn't in the right place at the right time. Brad being out front, not having a lot of formation behind me, never got enough momentum to get up to him or try to make a move on him. He was so far out protecting his lane, the race was pretty much his.   
That's about it.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for Kyle.   
   
 Q. Kyle, why were there so many wrecks today?  
KYLE BUSCH: I don't know. I'm not sure if guys thought weather was coming or something like that.   
You know, it's just Talladega. It is what it is. These cars, you try to get a little bit aggressive, start bumping people and pushing people, they're real easy to get out of control.   
I really don't know why we're bumping and pushing and everything else, because these cars, they go slower when you push. Makes a lot of sense. That's how stupid we are.   
   
 Q. Was it more aggressive than typical?  
KYLE BUSCH: I didn't notice the aggressiveness picking up until about 40 to go or something like that, which is about typical. You're trying to get yourself in the right position at the right time in order to position yourself for that final pit stop. After that, it's pretty much 'game on'.   
   
 Q. You noted in the TV interview a high quota of cars airborne or upside down. I don't want to say 'fix' it, because it is not broken, but what is the solution to make it less of a demolition derby?  
KYLE BUSCH: I don't have one. I don't have a solution. It's been this way for 30 years, so...   
Stop complaining about it, I guess.   
   
 Q. Do you like it?  
KYLE BUSCH: I hate it. I'd much rather sit at home. I got a win. I don't need to be here.   
   
 Q. This place is known for the carnage that we see out here. Are you kind of surprised at how many and how much there was today?  
KYLE BUSCH: Today was definitely high. Just looking in my mirror, looking for that final restart, seeing the amount of cars behind me that didn't have damage, I think I probably counted four, and I was sixth. Maybe there was eight or ten of us that didn't have it seemed like some sort of bandage. Two of them in front of me had it on their cars.   
About everybody had some sort of damage and was tore up. I don't think there was a car that came out of this place without needing the body all redone, all the time and effort that the guys do at the shop rebuilding it.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Kyle. Congratulations on the run today.   
KYLE BUSCH: Thank you.   
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by our third‑place finisher, Austin Dillon.   
Austin, talk to us a little bit about your run out there today.   
AUSTIN DILLON: Well, there was a little bit of everything. It started out pretty good, running up front, moving around, chasing guys. Man, we had a fast car.   
We got in that early wreck, when we were four‑wide there with Jamie. Didn't work out.   
So I'm just proud of my guys. Their shirts are probably working perfect today. Intellifresh is supposed to keep you smelling good and they worked their butts off. They had 15 stops. I'm sure that Intellifresh is still smelling fresh on those guys. They had 15 stops. They fixed the damage, never panicked.   
That's something we struggled with this year, kind of panicking when something goes wrong. We've been meeting about it the last couple weeks. We can't lose our minds because sometimes it's just not your day.   
When you think back, halfway through this race, you're not thinking it's your day. All of a sudden when it comes down to it, we kept our minds in it, kept working on the car, came home with a third‑place finish.   
Amazing to be part of a group of guys that work their tails off for me. I'm so proud of them. Man, fun day.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for Austin.   
   
 Q. It could be argued that some bullets were dodged today with cars flying around everywhere. We have roof flaps and other things. Anything else that can keep these cars down that should be tried?  
AUSTIN DILLON: I've been asked a couple times already what I think they should do. I'm not an aero guy. But I know with the smart people we have in NASCAR, all the companies, that we can probably do something to figure it out. We need to.   
I went flying last year at Daytona, and that's not fun. For guys that haven't done it, it's just not a fun thing to be a part of.   
I don't know how to fix it personally. I know NASCAR will put their efforts towards fixing it. I know they will. They've made the car safer. That's the reason why we're walking away from these crashes. I think as a group, all of us want it to be where we're not leaving the ground.   
We'll get some smart people on it. I have total faith in NASCAR that they'll do their job and work on that. But, man, wild day.   
   
 Q. You mentioned you've been in wrecks like this. Are you able to enjoy your third‑place finish or are you glad it's over with?  
AUSTIN DILLON: Truthfully I don't know everything that happened yet, so I am really excited about my third‑place finish because I know what our team went through today.   
I did see a video of Allmendinger getting out, and looked pretty shook up. I hope everybody is all right from all these crashes. I haven't got a chance to look at all of them. I pray they're all all right.   
I think we'll make some adjustments moving forward, like I said, to hopefully even safen [sic] up even more.   
For me, I'm proud of our team. If you guys can see the car, if you go look at it, you would never expect it to get to third. I actually think with it being so draggy and beat up, the 1 car hooked to us at the end and he just pushed me all the way through three and four, gave me a heck of a run.   
Once I left that air, thought, there wasn't much I was going to be able to do once that happened. It was my one shot off of turn four, I tried it. It was fun to be up front there at the end.   
   
 Q. You said it was wild and fun. There were two cars that were upside down at times today. How can it be both wild and fun?  
AUSTIN DILLON: I've been on the wild side, if you remember my wreck last year. I know what it is. Today it didn't happen to me.   
For us, fun was just watching my team work in the pits. I had guys climbing on the hood, beating the hood down. I had guys putting screws everywhere in the car to keep it together. It worked out for us.   
I agree, I don't like those wrecks. I mean, I promise you, I have to put myself in a situation I don't want to be in to get into a good situation. You have to put yourself in bad situations that you wouldn't normally do to figure out how to get to the front.   
That's where it all comes from. I don't know personally how to fix it. The only thing I can do is I know they've got new innovations they want to do to the cars to make them safer, like the foot box they've been working on.   
As far as aero‑wise, if we need to put something on the back of the car to keep them on the ground, I'm all for it. I'm all four keeping all four tires on the ground.   
Hopefully we can have a solution by July. I think a lot of drivers will be, I guess, a lot more feeling better about it when we get there, if we can do something to keep the tires on the ground.   
You'll have guys liking speedway racing more than we do. We all have to do it. I don't know how many really love it. But I know our moms and wives and girlfriends, they don't like it because they got to watch their loved ones put themselves in situations they don't like.   
It's part of the game, speedway racing, always has been. Hopefully we can figure something out to help keep them on the ground.  
   
 Q. Is it fun if you don't wreck?  
AUSTIN DILLON: If I don't wreck? Yeah. I thank the Lord every time I don't wreck. If it's fun that I don't wreck? I made it through it. I'm thankful really. Fun, like I said, was watching the guys put the work in on a damaged car.   
We started 17th with three laps to go and finished third. So from 17th to third, that was pretty cool. One guy came up to me in the suite, said Dale's last win here, he came from 15th to first. Maybe if we started 15th, we could have got there.   
   
 Q. Is it ever galling for a driver that the amount and the spectacular nature of some of these crashes is part of the entertainment value for some fans?  
AUSTIN DILLON: I try not to think of it that way. I've grown up in racing, watched a lot of bad crashes. I don't think they're true fans if they like the excitement. I think it's more of a, you know, person that doesn't really know what goes on.   
We don't like to be a part of crashes. It's not what our job is, is to crash. Our job is to compete and have fun out there and put on a show.   
Putting on a show, in that crashes happen. I don't think of it that way. I think people, if they're cheering for crashes, man, it's not a good thing.   
THE MODERATOR: Austin, thanks, congratulations on the run today.   
AUSTIN DILLON: Thanks, guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT