THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2013
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARK O'MEARA:  It was a tough day.  Obviously I didn't
play as well as I did yesterday.  I didn't drive it as good.  I
had a lost ball out on No. 6.  I didn't make many birdies.  The
course was different wind direction, but still very playable, but
still a good test.  And I just played pretty poorly, to be honest
with you.  Bogeying the last two holes didn't help.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK O'MEARA:  Yesterday I hit it good, drove it really
well, hit 15 greens.  Today I just didn't drive the ball in the
fairway like I needed to and I missed a lot of greens and my short
game wasn't that good.  You shoot 7-over quickly.  It can happen
fast out here.  You can make bogeys pretty quick.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK O'MEARA:  No, not really.  Certainly different wind.
But in saying that, it's pretty simple, you don't hit it good in
an Open Championship with the rough the way it is out there,
you're going to make some bogeys.  The short game is key, you have
to putt well.  I did none of those well, that's why I shot 7-over.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK O'MEARA:  Not really.  I'm disappointed.  I know I
can play better than that.  It's never fun having a poor round,
especially off a good round yesterday.  I was expecting to play
better yesterday.  When you don't, you're disappointed.  At least
I'm playing on the weekend and that's a nice thing to be here in
an Open Championship and have a chance on the weekend, but I just
should have played better today, to be honest with you.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK O'MEARA:  Yeah, Birkdale.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK O'MEARA:  I think, yeah, playing links golf is a
good preparation for Birkdale, anytime you come over and play.
This is a good test of golf right now because it's firm and fast.
If the wind gets up and it's stronger, it's going to be even
tougher.  But it makes you think out there.  You're accountable on
all your shots.  I enjoy that.  I think it's fantastic.  I just
know I should have played better.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK O'MEARA:  It will firm up even more.  You've just
got to land the ball short of the green, like Darren did right
there and just chase the ball up there.  You can't be overly
aggressive.  When you short side yourself, especially with the
greens as firm as fast as they're going to get, you're not going
to get the ball up and down.  You have to play smart and pick your
spots.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK O'MEARA:  I think short game is always essential in
any Major Championship, especially here in The Open.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK O'MEARA:  No, I don't think they really made many
changes right there, I think the greens weren't quite as fast this
morning, but that's earlier with a little more dew on them.  But I
think the golf course is -- look, my opinion, I think it's fine.
I think this is a Major championship, this is the way it should
play.  I don't think it's unfair.  I said that yesterday.  I still
don't think it's unfair.  It had nothing to do with the course
setup.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK O'MEARA:  Grant, I felt bad for him.  He didn't play
well.  He hit some poor shots for him.  It's a learning
experience.  He's still a young man.  He's got some good skills,
he'll be fine.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK O'MEARA:  I know how much this tournament means to
him.  I know how much he loves links golf.  It doesn't surprise me
to see him playing reasonably well right now.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
MARK O'MEARA:  I think he's always nervous, to be honest
with you.  Nobody is not nervous.  If you're not nervous, then you
don't want it.  So he's nervous.  He's trying to win.  But I know
he knows he's got experience.  But that doesn't necessarily give
you the right to go out and win, you still have to play the shots.
Certainly he knows how to get around links golf.  He doesn't have
to hit a lot of drivers around here, so that's a good thing.









END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT