U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2013
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Mark O'Meara shot an even par 70 and is 2 under par for the Championship.  
   
 Q.   Couldn't make up any ground today, a little frustrating?   
MARK O'MEARA: I didn't play as well.   I started off hitting it pretty good.   I hit a good drive on 4, right in the middle of the fairway, had a wedge to the green, hung it just to the right, and made bogey.   You can't make bogeys in the middle of the fairway with wedges.   
Really didn't make any putts.   Then I made a long putt on 9 for birdie.   That was more probably length putts than I've made all week.  
I didn't drive quite as well on the back side, which when you're driving in the rough, it's a little more defensive out there.   
Made some pars, but, you know, I just needed to play a little bit better, to be honest.   I needed to drive a little bit better.  
Some of the guys earlier posted good scores, and it's kind of a tight bunch.   But I wish I could have moved a couple shots closer to where I needed to be.   I think tomorrow I've got to shoot a super low round.   We'll see what happens.   I'll give it my best effort.  
   
 Q.   How about the crowds out there?   
MARK O'MEARA:   Fantastic.   Everybody here in Omaha and the golf club here at Omaha Country Club, they've done a great job.   It's a good test, solid test.   It's not an easy golf course by any means.   A lot of the scores reflect it.   
It was warm out there, and the breeze was blowing.   Tough conditions hiking up and down those hills out there.   So I'm glad to be done, hopefully get some rest and come out and play better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Mark, what's the best hole on this course now that you know it a little bit?   
MARK O'MEARA:   There's not one hole, to me, that stands out as the best hole.   There's a lot of quality holes out there.   8 is a quality hole in my opinion.   I'm not a huge fan, I got to be honest, fairways have a lot of slope to where, if you hit it in the middle of the fairway, it ends up in the middle of the rough.   I can't buy into that, if you want to ask my personal opinion.   
I'd say probably No. 8.   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT