U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2013
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARK O'MEARA:   It flew right on top of Calcavecchia's ball.   It ended up on the front of the green.   So anyway, didn't hit too bad a shot, and luckily I got away with a par, but it was kind of unlucky.  
   
 Q.   You weren't very happy, were you?   
MARK O'MEARA:   No, I wasn't very happy.   I hit a good shot.   It would have probably been about pin high, about 14 feet left of the hole.   Instead, I'm struggling to make a par.   It would be one thing if I didn't hit a good shot, but I hit it pretty solid.   
I'm happy with 3 under.   I wish I would have maybe made a couple of putts there at the end.   It's a tough golf course, long day out there, deep rough.   Challenging with a lot of slope out there, a lot of elevation change on the golf course.  
You know, the scores reflect that.   It's a Major Championship.   It's our Major Senior U.S. Open.   Glad to get off to a good start, but there's a lot of work left to be done.  
   
 Q.   Bogey‑free too?   
MARK O'MEARA:   Bogey‑free is always good.   There was only a couple times I was in jeopardy.   Had to make about a six, seven‑footer on 10 for par.   Also, about a five, six‑footer on No. 4 for par.   
Other than that, I hit most of the greens, except for when I ricocheted off of Calc's ball.   I hit every other green.   I'm pleased with that.   Hopefully, I can keep up the good play.  
   
 Q.   You surprised nobody went 65, 66 today?   
MARK O'MEARA:   No, because you may make some birdies out there, but there's some very demanding holes out there too.   18, 8, the par 3s are demanding.   So, yes, there are holes you can make birdies, but there are also holes that can jump up and bite you too.  
   
 Q.   Seven people are tied on the leaderboard right now.   That's a lot at a Senior Open.   What are your thoughts on why that's taking place?   
MARK O'MEARA:   There are a lot of good players who play good golf out here on this Tour.   It doesn't surprise me.   3 under, like I said, is a good score.   It's not a fabulous score, but it's a very good score.   A lot of these guys still play tremendous golf, even well into their 50s.   It doesn't surprise me to see so many guys kind of bunched up.   
All right?   Thanks, everybody.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT