U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2013
Tom Lehman
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We have two of those in that group at 3 under par who are with Roger.  
   
 Q.   With Tom Lehman and Mark O'Meara.   Tom, this golf course, I see a lot of holes that tilt sharply from right to left, and you like to draw it.   So do you find yourself really having to change your normal flight patterns to get around this golf course?   
TOM LEHMAN:   Yeah, I tried to hit a few, just with my 3 wood, I tried to cut it and tried to hit it high and let it flow a little bit just to combat that.   
If it gets to the point where I can't keep in the fairway, then it's going too fast.   Usually, I can find a way to get it in there.  
   
 Q.   How about that chip‑in at 18?   Looked like the ball was sitting halfway down in the rough.   Take us through the shot.   
TOM LEHMAN:   Well, just to get it rolling.   To get it rolling, you got to hit it somewhat solid.   The grass was going against it so took an 8 iron just to try to trundle down to the hole.   You got to hit it nice and solid, get on the right line, and luckily, it went in.  
   
 Q.   Went in like a Crenshaw putt.   
TOM LEHMAN:   I missed a whole bunch of putts too.   So it's good to make a chip.  
   
 Q.   Mark, were you taken aback at all when you came here?   This is not a place the Tour came.   We didn't know much about the Omaha Country Club.   Were you a little taken back by the difficulty and the hills on this golf course?   
MARK O'MEARA:   To be honest, I was, Rog.   You think of Nebraska, you think of cornfields.   Practice rounds on Tuesday, I was like blown away.   There's such change of elevation.   Like you said to Tom, sloping out on the fairways to where it's hard to get the ball in the fairway.   It's a good test.   The rough is deep out there.   It's deep around the greens.   
You've got to be very accurate, not only off the tee but with your second shot.   Can't go to the wrong place.  
   
 Q.   You're a guy who's built your career around hitting a round or two.   What do you think is the key to getting around here?   
MARK O'MEARA:   I have to try to cut and drive on a couple of holes.   Fortunately, I hit a good drive on some holes.   I missed some fairways early but not badly, to where I could still get it on the green.   I think I missed three greens.   Obviously, one fired off Mark Calcavecchia's ball, the size of a quarter from 210 yards.  
   
 Q.   You don't see much?   
MARK O'MEARA:   That wasn't very good.   I made a couple of putts.   I missed some putts too.   I think Tom and I both agree you can get around this golf course.  
   
 Q.   Just 18 holes into this.   Just ask you now, one word answer, are you tired?   
TOM LEHMAN:   Yes.   
MARK O'MEARA:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT