OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2013
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Any round without a bogey is a good one but what about one with five birdies on this course?   
MARK O'MEARA:   Pleased with the performance today, to get off to an early start, I've been hitting the ball really well to be honest.   I was out for about four months with an injury last year, and end of last year I played well and I had high expectations to get off to a good start this year.   
Played reasonable in Hawai'i about a week and a half ago, and in the practise round and Pro‑Am, I got here a little early so I could get acclimated a little better and I was happy with the way I was swinging.  
Yeah, today, no bogeys around this golf course is a good day.  
   
 Q.   You've been coming here a long time and a little older than when you first started, but technology is enabling you to hit the ball further.   How differently do you play this golf course now than when you first came here?   
MARK O'MEARA:   Well, I realise that I can't hit the ball like the kids can, but yet I'm still driving it a reasonable distance and around here, it's so important to hit the fairway and I drove the ball pretty well today.   I kept the ball in play most all day long and that enabled me to be a little more aggressive and hit more greens.   
Listen, when I can hit the ball like that and give myself opportunities, I look forward to getting back out there tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   So is this a golf course you look at and think, I can compete with the main Tour people here?   
MARK O'MEARA:   Listen, I won here when I was 47, certainly playing with Paul McGinley all four days and winning then; but I realise there's a lot of talented young players.   
I played with Lee Westwood in the challenge match and Lee was swinging great; he's hungry and off to an early start today obviously and there was not much wind out there today so the scores are going to be quite good, and the course is in really good shape.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT