U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2011
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Pretty good golf out there.   
 MARK O'MEARA: Yeah, thanks. There's always a little bit of pressure playing in the final group, and Olin played extremely well today. I felt like I played well. I hit a couple maybe shots that weren't as good as I would have liked, but overall real solid. A birdie on 8 and 9 were big, and then played well on the back side. You know, the birdie on the 15th hole was a big birdie, too, because some of those holes are playing pretty difficult. And then birdied the last two. But Olin did the same thing, he birdied the last two. There's not much you can do. When you're one shot behind, you shoot 5-under on Saturday you're going to be pleased. You think you'd still be right there leading, and I'm two shots back. But he played great, too, so my hats off to him, and I enjoyed being out there with him. So hopefully tomorrow I can just go out there and play my best that I can shoot out there and give myself a chance.  
  
  Q. Talk about the position you're in entering the final round. Does the mindset change at all or does it not?  
 MARK O'MEARA: No, I think on any USGA golf course you realize that there's certain things you're going to have to do well; you're going to have to drive the ball well, keep the ball in the fairway and you're certainly going to have to make some putts. It comes down to putting well, and I've been putting well, and if I can put the ball in play off the tee and hit some quality iron shots, there's no reason why I shouldn't be able to shoot a good score. But there's still 18 holes to go and a lot of things can happen out there.  
  
  Q. What did you hit into No. 4?   
 MARK O'MEARA: Into No. 4, the par-5, I hit 3-iron. I hit a pretty good putt. I hit it probably just a little too hard and just missed on the left side. But trying to be a little aggressive. The greens are a little bit slower so it's hard sometimes to be committed that you've got to hit your putt hard enough. On the back side it was a little bit better.  
  
  Q. There was a lot of putts going in today.   
 MARK O'MEARA: Yeah, I like the way the USGA sets up the course. They've moved some tees around, some holes were shorter, some holes were longer, a lot more creativity out there. With the rain the last couple days and the humidity they're a little bit softer so they're holding pretty well. I think that's why the scoring is pretty good.   
  
  Q. What did you do at 16 today?  
 MARK O'MEARA: 16, I hit a really good drive off the tee. They had the tee over on the right side, and I had 148 to the hole uphill, hit an 8-iron, kind of pulled it just a little bit left of the hole pin high and left my putt short from about 18 feet.  
  
  Q. What do you think about 16?   
 MARK O'MEARA: I think it's a good hole. It tests you. You've just got to stand up there and hit good quality shots. The green is fairly undulated so you've got to hit a good second shot, distance control, and kind of where you leave your ball on the green.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT