THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2011
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Did you feel like this was coming? 
 MARK O'MEARA: When I started the day, I thought if I played the way I feel like I could play I could shoot around 70 or right around that score was my target score. Par or better was always in the back of my mind, because I played up here about two and a half weeks ago. Played one ball and shot 68. So I said if I hit the ball well and putt well, you know, there is no reason why I can't shoot a decent score. 
 So, yeah, 66 is a lot better than what I anticipated, but pleased to get that score in there.

 Q. How much different is the course now to when you played it a couple weeks ago? 
 MARK O'MEARA: The rough is a little bit thicker, little bit deeper. So fortunately when I did hit it in the rough I had a couple of decent lies, so I was lucky there. And I had good shots on the par threes. I birdied both par threes on the front side, and on the back side I hit pretty good shots on both par threes. 
 To make birdie on 15 and then 16 and cap it off with the putt on 18 certainly moved me up the leaderboard. But I've got to get out there tomorrow and continue to drive the ball on the fairway and make putts. When I do miss the green, try to get it up-and-down.

 Q. It's kind of cliche, but out here it's fairways and greens, isn't it? 
 MARK O'MEARA: I think this golf course requires, yeah, strategic placement. Keep the ball in play, try not to short-side yourself too much around the greens. If you putt well, you've got a chance to shoot a good score.

 Q. Can you be around on Sunday doing that? 
 MARK O'MEARA: I hope so. I'm here, I'm going to try. I'm not going to try to do anything else other than try to keep plugging away one shot at a time and see where it takes me.

 Q. You take the old Ronald Reagan line of you're not going to use your opponent's inexperience against them kind of thing? 
 MARK O'MEARA: No, the best thing I have going for me is I kind of know where I belong. So there is pressure on me, but not quite the pressure it would be if I was 30 years old. I'm 54. I realize where I'm at in my life, and because of that I feel like at times I'm playing better golf.

 Q. What was the key? What was working really well for you today? 
 MARK O'MEARA: I think my attitude was good out there today. I thought that was a big key, and I putted extremely well. I made some good par putt saves and I made some wonderful birdie putts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT