CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
November 5, 2010
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Pretty good day overall. 
 MARK O'MEARA: Yeah. I owe it to my wife. She got me a nice sandwich after nine. No, I'm just kidding, honey. Sorry. 
 You know, like yesterday I hit a lot of greens. I only missed like two greens yesterday and one fairway or something, and I didn't hit that close. And then today I hit some better shots, and birdie, and I had a couple chances early. And then I birdied the fourth hole, the par-5. And then I rattled three off in a row there, four, five and six, so that was nice. 
 Then 9, I hit it on two with a 3-wood about pin high to about 16 feet for eagle and missed it. Then I kind of played pretty smart most of the way around. The only poor shot I really kind of hit was the 6-iron on 17, just not committed enough and hit it to the right and kind of semi-plugged in the right bunker and made bogey, but came back with a good drive on 18 and an 8-iron and made birdie. So I got a bounce-back there.
 I'm pleased with the round because at least it puts me back in the tournament to where if I play good on the weekend, I can have a chance. 

 Q. 4, 5, 6 are tough --
 MARK O'MEARA: Even 4, because you know, you kind of hit -- I had an okay drive I hit a 4-iron down there, still have to hit an 8-iron because you have about 140 yards. I made a good putt there. Today I definitely putted better, which was nice. They went in, you know, the next hole I hit it close and made birdie. Hit it about four or five feet on No. 5 and then six I hit a pretty good drive and hit a 4-iron to about 16 feet and made that for birdie. So I rattled off a couple of nice birdies there and made a good par on eight out of the right bunker. And then I hit it close a couple of times on the back side, the birdies that I made were reasonably, like on 13 I hit a drive just in the right rough, I hit a 7-iron that rolled up there to about five feet and then I hit a 3-wood off the tee going for the green on 16 just in front, pitched it to about five feet. So it was just a solid round, and nice to get back into contention.

 Q. You're the last guy that's one a 72-hole event out here. Two more days to go. How do you think it's going to play out?
 MARK O'MEARA: There's a lot of good names up there. There's always going to be a lot of to and fro'ing. This golf course, just a lot depends on the weather. If the wind comes or the rain comes on Sunday it's going to be a little bit tougher, even with ball-in-hand it's a pretty long golf course, but I think the set up is good. It's fair. It's still a challenge. It's still a good test out there but you're going to have to make putts. That's kind of what it boils down to. Good smart shots and putts. Drive it in the fairway. That way you can be somewhat aggressive with your iron play and just hole some putts.

 Q. A lot of low scores yesterday obviously and you're by far the low score today. Is it that much more difficult today? The weather is obviously cooler?
 MARK O'MEARA: I didn't find it that much different today to be honest with you. The tee was up a little bit on 12 but the par-3 the number eight, the tee was back. So it's kind of to'ing and fro'ing. But this kind of direction the wind I think is favorable to shoot some good scores, kind of the southwest it looks like. So when it come the other direction I think the golf course plays a lot tougher.

 Q. It is different than yesterday; right?
 MARK O'MEARA: A little bit different. For sure. The wind direction is different. So I think the golf course probably will play a little built easier with the direction of the wind today.

 Q. So given that are you surprised with the scores?
 MARK O'MEARA: I am. I am. But you know, sometimes that's kind of the way it is. There's guys that are still playing the back nine that can light it up a little bit. So 5-under is a good score on any golf course, let alone this one. Hopefully -- I shot six today, but hopefully -- you know, I figured close to 10-under would be a good score come Sunday. I really did. You know, but these guys might prove to be wrong. 
 Fred Funk is playing well. A couple of the other guys are playing well. The guys who have been playing well are playing well, so that's not uncommon.

 Q. Mark, do you have a lot more confidence since winning in Baltimore?
 MARK O'MEARA: I think it just took the pressure off a little bit, the expectations and the hype and why haven't you won. I heard all that before. I heard that when I hadn't won a major until I was 41. 
 You kind of build on your own. But I'm still nervous. I'm still trying to play my best, and you know, it's always difficult to win any tournament, but certainly at least getting over the hurdle and winning knowing that you can get it deny is important and the way I won at TPC Potomac, demanding difficult golf course where no one else has shot four rounds in the 60s, I thought was a very nice accomplishment, so we've got two more rounds to go here. If I keep driving it the way I am, there's no reason why I shouldn't play well on the weekend.

 Q. Mark, I understand you played junior golf here. You played a tournament here?
 MARK O'MEARA: Played one little junior golf tournament years allege.

 Q. Did it all come back to you?
 MARK O'MEARA: No. There's a couple of holes I kind of remember. The routing is kind of similar but it was just so long ago, I don't really remember a lot of the course, but I do know one thing, you can't find much prettier cypress trees than on this property. Even more so than on Monterey peninsula. These trees on this proper are spectacular. They really are. No where else in the world than I seen it like this before. So to have this as TPC in our network now and San Francisco and to be able to play here is pretty nice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT