OUTBACK STEAKHOUSE PRO-AM
April 18, 2010
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK O'MEARA: You knew it was going to be a tough day, the way conditions were the way they were. Mother Nature is Mother Nature.   
 It's disappointing to finish second again, but I've just got to keep putting myself in those positions, knocking on the door and sooner or later, it's going to be my day.   
 Certainly my congratulations to Bernhard for winning. But he's won 10 or 11 times. You know, I'm not a bad guy. Come on, you know. It's tough, because a lot of my peers, everybody is pulling for me. I know the media and my friends and my wife and family, that's just as much pressure as anything, everybody wanting it so bad for you, as well as I want it for myself.   
 But you know what, I'm a lucky guy. Obviously second is better than third, but you know, we'll just move onto next week and maybe next week in Savannah could be my week.   
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: We will just go to questions real quick.   
  
  Q. Were you the one guy in the locker room rooting for the weather to clear out and actually play?  
 MARK O'MEARA: A little bit. At this stage in my life, I kind of go with the punches. You know, I just take what kind of comes my way.   
 Like I said to somebody, there's no guarantee that I was going to go out and shoot 65 or 66. I'm disappointed on the one hand, but on the other hand, I know that I've been playing better than I've been playing. So it's a step in the right direction.   
 So you have to look at the positives and just let it be. There's just some things you can't control, and the weather is one of them.   
  
  Q. Are you encouraged by how you played?   
 MARK O'MEARA: Yeah, especially being paired with Nick, certainly Nick being the defending champion here and pricey being my partner next week at the Liberty Mutual Legends of Golf is at Savannah next week, and we felt good about where we are at. I'm not perfectly there, but next week is a best-ball event.   
 So it was good for he and I to be paired up out there together, and hopefully we can use some of the momentum this week and get a victory next week.   
  
  Q. What were the conditions like to play today for your one hole, and when you got called off the course, did you think you wouldn't be going back out?  
 MARK O'MEARA: I thought we would still be going back out. But there was a lot of casual water. For example, I was soaking wet when I hit my drive on 1, and I got it on the back edge and it kicked over the green and I hit that pitch shot. But then Bernhard was maybe 11 or 12 feet, he had to move it three or four feet because it was casual water on the first green, and we saw the guys up in front of us on the second green and they couldn't putt.   
 When you have that kind of casual water out there, the fairways start to get a little bit flooded. It just seems like it's not really moving at the pace that they thought it might move through.   
 You know, I leave it up to these guys, the officials, and them to make the right call. I think Bernhard would be the first guy to say, too, the guy is a great champion and a great competitor, I mean, I've played a lot with him and he wants to go out and win it the right way, too.   
 But still a win is a win, and he came out on top, birdieing the last hole yesterday was pretty important. I don't think he realized that at the time, but now he does.   
  
  Q. Has this ever happened to you before?  
 MARK O'MEARA: No. In all my 30 years, I've won tournaments; I've lost tournaments in play offs; I've won tournaments in playoffs. But this is the first time where, you know, I've finished second a shot back but not being able to finish the tournament.   
  
  Q. You talked yesterday about some bad luck and it's your time; has this reached the ridiculous stage?  
 MARK O'MEARA: I was just asking the Man upstairs; He's testing me a little bit, you know. There's reasons for everything, and maybe this is another little feather in my cap that just says, hey, handle this the right way and you know what, maybe I go on to win three tournaments in the next seven weeks; you never know what it holds.   
 But I've been working hard on my game. Felt like I was starting to play better. Putted better. Certainly like I said, Tiger helped me at Augusta, releasing the toe; it definitely worked out, because all of a sudden my speed was better and I was hitting more solid putts out there. So it was good.   
 Thanks, appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT