U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2009
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Mark O'Meara. 
 MARK O'MEARA: Thanks. It was a nice day. First two days I was in the rough a lot, struggling a lot, and today I drove it in the fairway better, and I hit some iron shots and chipped one in on the 13th, for a par 3. And my short game was there for me the last couple of days, quite a few birdies, a few bogeys, the eagle on 15 was nice. I made a mistake on the 17th, pulling my 5-iron down into Pete's caravan, ravine, whatever you want to call it.
 But 9-under is good. And I know I'm going to be behind the leaders, but if I continue to strike the ball well, you never know what can happen. 

 Q. Seems like there is more of a premium being in the fairways? 
 MARK O'MEARA: Yeah, the rough is thick enough where up can't control your ball, which I think is good, so you have to be weary of what the ball could do. So it makes you think out there. 
 Driving is a premium because if you drive it well you can be more aggressive coming at the flags and low and behold you have to putt well. So, hopefully, I can drive it good and make some putts. 

 Q. What did you hit on the 15th? 
 MARK O'MEARA: I had a drive and 204 to the hole and I hit a 4-iron and it flew at it, landed right on the green and rolled up to 4 and a half feet. 

 Q. The shot on the -- out of the ravine on 17 was good. 
 MARK O'MEARA: It was. I said, listen, you take bogey from there, because a lot of things can happen from there. And, fortunately, I wasn't on the downslope, and I had a chance for par. But I pulled my putt and it didn't break like we thought it would. But I deserved bogey, I didn't hit the shot I wanted to hit. 

 Q. Did you have memories here from '91?
 MARK O'MEARA: No, I think I missed the cut in '91, and the fairways are running faster than in '91. 
 But Pete fools you with the way he designs the angles and so forth. It's a good driving test out there and any USGA event you have to drive the ball well. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT