THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 21, 2016
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great 69 out there, how does it feel?  
MARK O'MEARA: It feels good. I had a couple good breaks.  I holed a third shot from the right rough on the second hole for birdie, which I was looking at making a bogey.  I hit a lot of good shots.  I made a couple of mistakes out there but 3-under par here is a good score.   
 Q.  Did the weather have any effects on the golf course yesterday?  
MARK O'MEARA: I think it softened it a little bit.  We were pretty fortunate.  The wind lied down just a little bit in the middle of our round out there, so it was a little bit more playable.  But Carnoustie is a very demanding golf course.  You have to drive the ball well.  You have to be accurate with your iron shots, and then you've got to putt well.  Today I putted well, and I made a couple mistakes out there, but overall, I'm obviously pleased with where I finished.   
 Q.  How were conditions?  
MARK O'MEARA: A little breezy at the start and then kind of lied down a little bit in the middle of our round, and then came back up.  Maybe the tide changed and it got a lot cooler.  The wind picked up.  The last few holes played pretty tough.   
 Q.  Feeling positive going into round two?  
MARK O'MEARA: Obviously I love links golf.  Last week, playing all four rounds at Troon; my passion for The Open Championship is second to none.   
Certainly coming here this week, the week after, to play the Senior Open Championship here at Carnoustie, I love it.  I think it's the greatest.   
 Q.  Is a round like today, is it all about patience?  
MARK O'MEARA: You're going to get a few bad breaks out there.  You're going to get a few good breaks.  So you have to stay really patient and then just give the best you can on every shot out there.   
 Q.  Looking at the scoring, 3-under par, 4-under par, do you feel like, this isn't a golf course necessarily that you have to put a low number.  
MARK O'MEARA: All depends on the conditions.  Normally the wind is always blowing here a little bit.  Anything under par is always going to be a good score at Carnoustie.  This course can be very tough, very demanding.  Not just off the tee but with your iron play into the greens, and you've got to hole some putts.  Luckily today, I did that.   
 Q.  How much does experience for you play into success here?  
MARK O'MEARA: I think it has a lot to do but still you have to play.  You still have to be committed and hopefully hit good shots out there, because it can get going south pretty quick.  So you've got to hang in there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT