SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Is there a significant difference in the way the greens are playing today compared to yesterday?  
 MARK O'MEARA: No, I think in the morning with the moisture, they held a little bit better and they weren't quite as crusty. But there was a little bit of breeze when we first started off, there's not much breeze now.   
 But it's hard to get the ball sometimes close to the pin because there's a lot of slope and you got to try to keep the ball below the hole. But I played a little bit better today. I'm 6-over and hopefully I'll be playing on the weekend.  
  
  Q. Did you have a different mindset coming into today or was there something that you found on the range?  
 MARK O'MEARA: No, I just tried to drive the ball in the fairway and hit some better iron shots because yesterday I didn't do quite as well.   
 And I got off to a decent start when I birdied 4. I had some putts that didn't go in. My bogeys really were, I mean on the two par-3s, I hit a couple of poor iron shots, and the other bogey was really in the middle of the fairway with an 8-iron. But overall I think even par is a respectable score. It could have been certainly better, but it wasn't.   
  
  Q. For the weekend do you think you'll have a different strategy?  
 MARK O'MEARA: I got to be a little more aggressive, but this course, with the greens, the firmness that they are, if you hit the ball in the fairway and you're hitting good tee shots, then you're definitely more rewarded to be aggressive.   
 It comes down to driving it good and then certainly making the putts. Because the greens have so much slope in them you got to be right with your speed on the putts.  
  
  Q. Do you think in the afternoon it's going to be tougher?  
 MARK O'MEARA: It is. The scoring is not as good in the afternoon as was evident yesterday and it will probably be the same today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT