TOSHIBA CLASSIC
March 8, 2009
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK O'MEARA: Needless to say, I didn't play great, but I played sure enough good enough to win. I haven't been there in a while on the nerves roster, but still, I drove the ball on every fairway and hit a lot of quality shots. I just didn't make the putts. 
 10 and 11, needed to make those two birdies putts. That were pretty short, maybe inside of seven feet. 
 And then bogey on 12 on a 110 yard shot. Should have been able to put that on the green. Missed the putt. It's just frustrating. I'll take some good out of it. I hit the ball so much better and drove the ball extremely well. 
 Hit good quality shots on 18. I hit a good shot there at 16, even though I missed the putt from three feet. 
 It's tough when you haven't been in the mix in a while. But yet, you know, I'll learn from this and hopefully putt better next week and have a chance in Valencia.

 Q. Is what you get from today more encouraging than discouraging? ?
 MARK O'MEARA: Oh, absolutely. I mean, at this stage of my life it's nice to finish second, third, or fourth. For me it's all about winning now. I want to win. Hopefully -- I put maybe a little bit more pressure on myself. Yet Eduardo played good on the back nine. He made a lot of good birdies in a row, 10, 11, and 12. That kind of separated us. 
 I didn't birdie on the par-5 on 15 where I needed to from off the right edge, and then missing a short putt on 16 really kind of let him off the hopper, you know.
 Listen, it is what it is. I shot under par every round, and I'll take a lot of positives out of this week. The fans were great. They were really pulling for me out there being a local guy. I can't thank them enough. We'll just try and do a little better next time.

 Q. Putting is all about confidence, isn't it?
 MARK O'MEARA: Yeah, a little bit. I think it is. I made a pretty good putt on 4, a long one on the par-3. That was kind of a bomb. 
 And I had some good putts -- I thought I hot a good putt on 6 that didn't go in. You know, I had a decent putt on 8 that didn't go in. I had the chance on 10. Like I said, the chance on 11, and then missed about a 6 and a half-footer for par on 12. 
 And then I could have got a little closer to the pins, but the pins were a little tougher today. But they were tougher out there today, as you guys saw. 
 Eduardo played smart. He played good. Hey, he deserved to win. 

 Q. What does the home crowd do for you? 
 MARK O'MEARA: Oh, you know, it's nice. It's nice. I see so many people that I've known for a long time. It's pretty cool that they're out there pulling for me. 

 Q. And turn it around into next week, too?
 MARK O'MEARA: Exactly. You know, two tournaments back to back here in L.A. area, Orange County region, I hope I can play as well, drive it like I did, and make a few more putts next week. 

 Q. Longer course. How does that change the mindset? At all? 
 MARK O'MEARA: No, no. I think this is what it should be set up like. Still, 11-under won after three days, so there wasn't that much wind out there. Firmer conditions are better conditions.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT