SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2007
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 MARK O'MEARA:  A little rusty, I haven't played in a month.  I could have hit the ball better for sure.  But even par is not a bad score.  It was gusty out there, but I thought the PGA of America did a pretty good job setting up the golf course today.   
  
  Q.  Talk about making your debut here.  Was it more exciting, less exciting, was it more --   
 MARK O'MEARA:  It's not my debut, I played a couple Champions Tour events already.   
  
  Q.  I mean in a PGA Senior Championship.   
 MARK O'MEARA:  Yeah, it's always nice to come in to play in a major championship or a tournament of this importance on a golf course such as Kiawah.  But we played here last time in '91 and I have fond memories of that.  The golf course, it really makes you think out there.  It's not going to lay up, it's going to be interesting Sunday afternoon.  I just hope I play a little better tomorrow afternoon to have a chance on Sunday.   
  
  Q.  Is it still the same as 1991?   
 MARK O'MEARA:  I think it's easier, to be honest with you.  The greens don't have as much slope in them.  They flattened them out a little bit.  Around the greens is not quite as difficult as it used to be.  But you can't really take anything for granted on this golf course at Kiawah.  You got to play some good shots.   
  
  Q.  How did those final four holes stack up compared to '91?   
 MARK O'MEARA:  Tough.  The wind was blowing harder today than it was in '91.  But certainly they adjusted for that with the tee position out there.  Which was good.  But still, 165, 170 yards, you're hitting knock down three irons about 15 feet in the air just trying to keep it out of the wind.  And there's not much margin for error on this golf course.  So you have to be very precise and your short game has got to be good.   
  
  Q.  Is the challenge still fun on or about do you feel like you're really working out there?   
 MARK O'MEARA:  No, the challenge is still fun.  I wasn't happen Pete way I played today.  I'm okay with the score I shot, but I should have played better.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT