U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2015
Mark O'Meara
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We have Mark O'Meara, shot a 1 under 69.  Tell us how your round went today.MARK O'MEARA: I played pretty well.  I probably made a little bit of a mistake on the 16th hole.  I drove it just on the edge of the right rough.  I had a questionable lie, 172 to carry the water, but I thought I could.  It really didn't come out and ended up hitting the water, made double bogey there, which kind of hurt. Made a good birdie on 18, birdied 1, birdied 2, and bogeyed the 3rd hole.  Other than that, mostly pars. Obviously not too disappointed with 69, especially the way my foot feels.  So I was almost going to bag it after 9, but I decided to go ahead and hang in there.  I got a little bit of an issue on my right foot that hasn't been a whole lot of fun.  For the way it felt, I was pretty proud of the fact that I hung in there.  We'll have to wait and see.  I don't know if I'm doing the right thing or not by playing.Q. How much was the heat a factor this morning?MARK O'MEARA: Not too bad.  It's a dry heat.  If we were in Houston right now, it would be a problem.  Sacramento, even though it's getting up to 100 or 90, at least, the humidity isn't too high.  Most of the guys can handle it, drink a lot of water. The golf course is very, very nice.  It's amazing the condition it's in.  I think all the players are enjoying being here.Q. Can you imagine what it's going to be like for those people at 3:00, 4:00, 5:00?  You'll have to go through it tomorrow, right?MARK O'MEARA: Listen, I've played in 127 degree heat out in the desert.  I don't think it's something -- plenty of fluids, pace yourself out there, and like I said, you know, if it was 100 or 102 with 90 percent humidity like in Houston right now, that would be a problem.  But the dryness here makes it okay.Q. You mentioned the conditions today.  How do you expect them to change for tomorrow?MARK O'MEARA: We haven't seen much change.  I played nine holes Tuesday, nine holes Wednesday, and the course seemed fairly similar today.  I imagine it might dry out a little bit.  The superintendent is doing a good job.  There's plenty of moisture out there.  It's not like the greens are getting rock hard or the fairways.  I imagine it will probably stay the same.  It might dry up a little bit.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT