AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v YANKEES
October 24, 2009
Andy Pettitte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: First question for Andy. 

 Q. What does this do -- what does this do not just to you but any pitch's psych or excited emotional ready to play a game? 
 ANDY PETTITTE: You know, obviously it's like another rainout, except just the build-up of it. Obviously it's postseason. So the worst part of it is just the wait. This was the longest day ever. And I was just about to start getting in my routine and they come walking in there and tell me it got cancelled. 
 So really more than anything, it's just -- you know, I've been doing it so long. You realize it's a rainout. Get ready to do it tomorrow. But it's just frustrating from the standpoint it's just such a long day, when you're so ready and so anxious to get the game going. So you go home, go out here, go through my routine again and go home and have a dinner, and do my thing tomorrow and just get ready for a start tomorrow. 

 Q. Is there any difference in a pitching one of these games when you know you can put a team away, as opposed to just pitching, say, Game 1 of a postseason series? Do you do anything differently? 
 ANDY PETTITTE: I won't. I really won't. I mean, just other than I guess a little bit more excitement, you know, just because you know what can be the next step if we get one more win. So that makes it maybe a little more exciting. 
 But as far as anything I'm going to do, you know, it's just the same. You go out there, you got a game plan when the game starts, and, you know, you make adjustments as the game goes on, and hopefully you make the right adjustments and you're able to locate like you want to, and put together a good game plan, and hopefully be successful. 

 Q. Andy, since they skipped that start in September, you really haven't had a very regular schedule. Does getting the extra day here in that regard do anything for you one way or another? 
 ANDY PETTITTE: You're exactly right. The first thing in my mind was okay, wow, I haven't pitched on my fifth day probably in about six weeks. So it's been a long time. So as far as that, I've been pitching on my sixth day. I've been pitching -- I've been having a lot of rest, which is very unusual, especially in the postseason. Sometimes you have to come back on short rest. Usually it's just like you'll do whatever and run you out there. So for me the last six weeks or so since they rested my shoulder that one start, I just feel like I've had an awful lot of rest. Obviously I'm getting older and it's probably great for me. But when I was younger, that would really set me back, I felt like. 

 Q. Andy, you know how well CC has been this whole postseason. They could have gone tomorrow with him on regular rest. They decided to go with you. What does that tell you about the confidence Joe has with you? And did you ever think they were going to go to CC for the start? 
 ANDY PETTITTE: No, I mean, I never thought -- someone asked me that yesterday. I don't know, I never thought that they would skip me. Just from the standpoint, you know, I would hope they have a lot of confidence in me, and hope that they think I can get this game and we can win this game with me on the mound. 
 And then if CC doesn't have to throw, you know, you would want him -- who else would you want for a Game 7 if there is a Game 7? So that was never -- I never thought they would not throw me tomorrow. 

 Q. Andy, if you win tomorrow, you would have more postseason-clinching wins than any player in history, passing Dave Stewart, Catfish Hunter and Roger Clemens. If that were to happen, what would that mean to you? 
 ANDY PETTITTE: I mean, again, that stuff is great. And, I mean, like I said before, I just feel so fortunate to have been able to play in this organization and been able to be on as many successful teams as we've put together here. So really, I just feel like I'm a byproduct of a lot of great teams, a lot of great players that have been surrounding me and have been helping me be able to do those things. 
 So just thankful that my body has held together and my elbow has felt better after the surgery and stuff like that. Other than that, I really haven't had a whole lot of other problems. So I'm just very thankful for that. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Andy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT