MLB WORLD SERIES: MARLINS v YANKEES
October 18, 2003
Andy Pettitte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Andy, can you talk a little bit about Florida's speed?  One of your strengths is your pickoff move.  Can you talk about how you think their speed is going to play into your strategy against them? 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:  Yeah, I know they got some guys, the top two guys especially, steal the base when they get on there.  The big key, I think always most teams have speed at the top of their line-up.  You just try to keep them off base, is one way to defend it.  But other than that, just, you know, I'll throw over there, give them some looks.  Try to keep them close over there. But I know if they get on base, whether I'm left-handed or right-handed, I know the scouting report says they're gonna try to run.  
 
Q.  When we talked about Mussina from the last series, he said, "The rotation fell out, he would pitch first, you always pitched second because you're always the Game 2 starter."  Is there something about that that makes you feel comfortable?  Do you prefer that?  Just your feelings on that. 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:  It's just  -- it seems like that's the way it always worked out.  Obviously, I feel comfortable pitching Game 2.  It seems like that's where I've been slotted for most of the playoffs and stuff like that.  So, again, I think it's just the way it ended up, the way that they felt like things would work out best for us.  But it's a playoff start.  Really, no matter where you are, you're just very honored and thrilled to be able to play in a playoff game. 
 
Q.  Mark Redman is going to be making his first postseason start tomorrow.  I was wondering if your experience will give you an edge in tomorrow's match, given you have a lot of postseason experience? 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:  I think he's the guy, Redman is pitching for them, right?  He hasn't started a postseason game yet?  
 
Q.  World Series game. 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:  World Series game, oh, okay.  He's been in postseason.  He's pitched against the Giants and he's pitched against the Cubs, I believe.  So I know that  -- I think he's gonna be ready.  Again, I don't think that anything I've done in the past is gonna give me an edge when I go out there tomorrow.  So just, again, same old story I've just been saying, is try to hopefully go out there and get in the groove I want to get in and locate the ball like I want to, and, again, try to give us a good start.  
 
Q.  After the rotation was set and we found out Roger is going to be pitching Game 4 in Florida, I was wondering if there was any reaction in the clubhouse to the fact that he's going to hit now in what looks to be his final start?
 
ANDY PETTITTE:  No, nothing really has been said or anything like that.  Just they let us know yesterday and he knows he's gonna have one more start and it will be in Florida.  So I know he's looking forward to that, I'm sure, after the start he had the other day.  I know he's very glad that he's gonna be able to go out there again.  
 
Q.  Just wondering how you think the pitching on three days is gonna affect you this time?
 
ANDY PETTITTE:  I'm not real sure.  I haven't done it in a while, and that's just because the rotation has been healthy all year and we've each made our starts.  Actually, we've been pitching on more rest than on less.  So expect it not to be as strong as I have been because of short rest.  Again, hopefully it won't affect me at all.  Hopefully, I can get out there and I'll feel great and give us a good start.  But not foreseeing it causing me problems.  Again, if I make a quality pitch, I think I'm gonna get guys out.  Hopefully, just stay out of the middle of the plate with my stuff and get some guys out.  
 
Q.  You've done very well for the most part in postseason play.  How have you managed to cope with October pressure, what seems like, so easily? 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:  Well, again, I've been able to make so many starts now in the postseason that I just, for the most part, think when you get to the playoffs, when you get in these games and the crowd is so into it and everybody's so into it, the big thing is controlling your emotions and controlling your body and getting relaxed out there.  The more you do it, the more relaxed you are, I believe.  So just very fortunate.  I've had so many opportunities to make so many starts now in the postseason, that really, it's not that overwhelming to me, quite as it was whenever  -- back in '95 and '96 when you're making those starts.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT