MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v DIAMONDBACKS
November 3, 2001
Andy Pettitte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was it one thing with you or was it everything? 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:   I don't really know.  I mean, I didn't feel, obviously, quite as sharp as I was in the first game.  My breaking stuff was a little flat.  But, you know, I can't really put my finger on it.   They were fouling a lot of pitches off and I was not able to put guys away when I needed to, like I was last time. 
 

Q.  If you could have anyone in the world going for your team, starting Game  7 as a pitcher, who would it be? 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:  Well, I'm going to say Roger Clemens, because he's going for us tomorrow.  I said it after I lost Game  2, you know, this would hurt a lot worse.  It's disappointing for me, to have this start.  We were ready to close this thing out tonight.  You know, I've had a situation  -- I've been fortunate to be in that opportunity several times now, and it's disappointing.  I was expecting a lot more out of myself tonight, but like I said, after we lost Game 2, we've got a great pitching staff, but it's easier for me to swallow, knowing we have a great starter going tomorrow and I expect Roger to throw a great game. 
 

Q.  What did you say to Joe when you came out? 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:   We didn't talk.  Not a lot  -- didn't have a whole lot to say after this one so far.  
 

Q.  When the camera panned on you after you came out of the game, you looked stunned; was that your reaction, that they hit you that hard and then overall, they hit everybody that hard? 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:  Well, obviously, I expected a lot more out of myself.  I don't think I've had  -- you know I've been able to keep us in games, especially in the post-season, but what I'm trying to do as a starter is just give us a chance, because I know with our bullpen and our team, we are never going to give up.  It's just frustrating, to be able to have a chance, to get out of that second inning, to get out of that, with Womack up, and I fell behind in the count on him.  So I had to throw balls  -- can't walk him right there.  So I just had to throw balls, basically right down the middle.  So, it was a shock for me.  I don't expect to have a start like that, and haven't in a while in the post-season, I think since '96 of Game 1.  You know, it was disappointing.  And then, just to see that inning go on, it was almost as amazing as the home runs that we hit in Game 3  -- game 4 and game 5 there at home, just to see how everything they hit was a base hit. 
 

Q.  Just them loading the lineup with right handers, did that change your approach? 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:   Not at all.  When I looked at it, you know, to tell you the truth, I felt good about it.  All of a sudden they were adjusting and trying to make adjustments to me.  You know, Jay I knew had not played much at all in the post-season, and I look at numbers and I knew I had very good numbers against the first baseman, Colbrunn.  So I wanted to stick with my game plan and then that's pound the guys and later setting up for the ball away.  My stuff, it just wasn't crisp tonight.  I was wasn't real sharp, left balls over the plate early in the count.  The second inning was just a monster, when Womack got that hit, that was basically the ballgame there.  When you've got Randy has a three-run lead, and Bautista gets the four runs, it takes all of the pressure, everything, off of him.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT