AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES v MARINERS
October 21, 2001
Andy Pettitte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Obviously, you guys get a lot of information from the scouting department before a series like this, but how much do you use from start to start and do you take anything from previous experiences yourself, yours and others in this series to use in the next game? 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:   You know, I'm just going to  -- we went over the hitters before the series started and that's about as far as I'll take that. I was able to face them obviously during the season.  I know where they are going to hurt me.  I know the pitches that obviously some of their hitters handle better than others.  They have got some hitters that just handle the ball all over the zone.  You've just got to try to continue to make quality pitches or try to continue to get ahead of the hitters, and obviously just try to make good pitches. 
 
Q.  How much more gratifying is a start like last Wednesday, or even a start against Oakland where you left trailing 1-0; how much more gratifying is it knowing that it is coming at this time of the year? 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:   Obviously, it's nice.  You know, any time you feel like you went out and gave your team a chance to win, is good.  And it's  -- obviously makes you feel a lot better when it's the post-season, because obviously every game is so crucial and can set you up in a series and put you in a position to win a series.  So it's very gratifying to be able to throw good games in the post-season; it's that much more demoralizing whenever you have a bad start. 
 
Q.  You and Roger have become workout buddies over the past couple seasons, can you tell us about what the workouts are like and how it has helped improve your game?
 
ANDY PETTITTE:   I've worked out with him.  I think I've gotten a lot stronger over the last couple of years, I think, in that sense.  It's increased my velocity and that's really the big key, the way it has really helped me over the last couple of years. 
 
Q.  What were you most impressed with about Game 1 in your performance? 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:   I don't know.  I'd like to feel like when I go out there, I feel like I'm going to have a good start, you know, so obviously, I was glad that I pitched well.  I felt like I was going to pitch well before I even started the game, so I wasn't  -- I don't think I shocked myself that I pitched decent in the game.  I don't know if that's crazy or not, but I guess since I struggled in the regular season two starts a little bit that maybe a lot more people were shocked.   But they have got a good lineup.  If you make bad pitches they are going to hurt you and I was able to pretty much have command of all of my pitches and that's a positive  obviously when you are able to go out and throw all of your pitches for a strike.  That's obviously going to help you out.  That was a big thing for me, just to be able to get anything over at any time. 
 
Q.  Obviously in the post-season you don't have much of a choice, but is it to your advantage, or is it to their advantage when you face a team twice in such a short period of time? 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:   I think it's the hitter's advantage, to tell you the truth, I really do. Just because, you know, kind of see the ball, what your ball is doing and stuff like that.  But, I mean, again, if you are able to make quality pitches and make good pitches you are usually going to get some guys out.  But I would have to say it's maybe a little bit the hitter's advantage, I would say. 
 
Q.  You've been through this a number of times, but either way, tomorrow's game is a huge game, but what is the key to your preparation that you just seem to take these crucial games in stride so well? 
 
ANDY PETTITTE:   Well, again, I've struggled in big games in the post-season in the past and been able to come back and pitch well, and I've had success.  Again, once you've been through everything and kind of been through it, it's a lot easier to take it in stride.  I'm not going to, you know, go one way or the other as far as what I'm going to do, my approach.  I'm going to go out there and I'm going to try as hard as I can.  I'm going to go as hard as I can for as long as I can.  I know that, you know, there's not going to be any give-up or any quit in me.  I know mentally, physically I'm going to be ready and that's all I can do. That's why it's easy for me to take whatever happens.  I'll just give it my best and hopefully we'll have a win tomorrow.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT