AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 17, 1999
Andy Pettitte
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Overall, how do you feel? Was this kind of an emotional struggling type win for you?
It seemed as though you were getting out of jams here and there.

ANDY PETTITTE: Yeah. I feel great. You know, we were able to get the win and,
obviously, that's big for us, to go up 3-1 in a series now. It was a very emotional game.
I felt like I was in trouble every inning, or what seemed like trouble. The fans were
really into it and stuff like that, and I know it's kind of tough to control your emotions
out there. Overall, I felt great about it. I gave up some bounces, the ball hit the wall.
Other than that, I felt like I was getting ground balls. Most of the hits were ground
balls going into the infield.

Q. What is the team's feeling now that you're up 3 to 1?

ANDY PETTITTE: We feel great. It was a huge win for us, especially after last night. It
seemed like they got a little bit of momentum back. To be able to keep them from going 2-2
with us, it was huge. I think we feel real confident about tomorrow. I'm sure El Duque's
going to throw a great game for us. Hopefully we can close this thing out tomorrow.

Q. At some point in the season you turned things around. Can you pinpoint what happened
and why it happened?

ANDY PETTITTE: Again, no, not really. You know, I feel like that -- again, I mean I
don't -- I said it 100 times. I really don't feel like that trade deadline was affecting
me. I felt like mechanically and mentally I was a little beat up and didn't have a lot of
confidence. And me and Mel continued to work hard. I was able to get the location on my
two-seam fastball back. That's a big key for me. I feel that's the main thing, the main
reason I was able to turn my season around.

Q. Could you tell us, the relay play that got Offerman at the plate, was that a real
lift for you at that point in the game?

ANDY PETTITTE: It was big. Obviously they put together a couple of hits right there, I
think. Just to get an out there, you know, especially whenever they have home-field
advantage like that, the crowd gets into it. And, you know, like I said, I want to start
overthrowing, I think I got that pitch up a little bit 'cause I was in a little trouble.
That was a huge out for me, maybe to relax me a little bit.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT