NL DIVISION SERIES: ROCKIES VS BREWERS
October 7, 2018
Bud Black
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I think I know the answer, but you've got Matt Holliday starting, righty against a lefty, a veteran, if you could discuss that a little bit, and also, if you could give your perspective on Wade Miley and what he's going to bring against you guys today.
BUD BLACK: Well, with Matt, I think we need his bat in the lineup, try to generate some offense.  I think you saw that against the Cubs on Tuesday night with Lester.  I think our right-handed bats against a lefty, Matt included, I think will give Miley a little bit more of a dangerous effect.
As far as the second part of your question, with Miley, we're going to see a guy that throws the football down in the strike zone with some movement, nice cutter that he throws quite often.  You're going to see it in on the hands of the righty, down and away to probably CarGo and Tony, but it's an in-and-out attack, mostly down with sink, so we've got to get the ball up.  We've got to get it up over the plate.  If he makes a mistake, we've got to be ready to hit it.
Q. Just a little bit more on Miley, a guy who probably threw harder a few years ago, and this year in a lot of ways kind of changed how he pitches.  What does that say about the ability of a veteran as a career goes to sort of reinvent himself?
BUD BLACK: It says a lot about him, right, the evolution of pitchers who pass the test of time.  There's usually something in there that there's a -- I wouldn't say a drastic change, but you see a guy evolved.
I remember him with a bigger breaking ball, and like you said, more velocity.  Now he's sort of turned into a guy that sort of two-seams the ball, has developed a little cutter/slider.  He varies the shape on it.  But that's part of a guy who has the aptitude and the wherewithal to make changes, and he's done it.
Q. Trevor Story yesterday said that, and I'm paraphrasing, through the whole season, he's kind of tied himself to not get too fast, not chase pitches, et cetera, and he said yesterday, he admitted he got into that habit a little bit.
Did you just allow him to self-correct, or did you guys do anything in the cage with him to try to correct that, or is that just something that's going to be within him?
BUD BLACK: Yes.
Q. Something within him?
BUD BLACK: No.  No.  Yes to both.  I mean, yeah, there was some coaching yesterday.  There were some conversations.  There were some cage work, but a lot of it is -- which is great, that he self-admitted that he got a little anxious in those two games.  So that's the first step.
He and I talked yesterday, Mike Redmond was in the conversation, and I'm sure there were probably a number of people who talked to Trevor, right, about, hey, relax.  Those at-bats were atypical of what you've done this season.  And now Trevor, I think, with the day off yesterday should be -- time will tell.  That's why we play.  But I suspect his at bats will be better.
Q. Could you kind of take me through Gerardo Parra's season this year and how a guy over time can develop into that type of real big threat off the bench?
BUD BLACK: Well, he's a veteran player that has been in a couple different spots in his career, right, a couple different teams, and grew up as a Big League player with a lot of different things thrown at him, starting player, backup player, platoon player, whatever.
I think here the last couple years, he's been an integral part of our team, as a starter, coming off the bench, hitting anywhere in the lineup.  I mean, again, it's part of who you become as a Big Leaguer as you gain service time, and he's done a very good job this year of doing anything we've asked.  Great team player, great teammate, great leadership abilities.  He's been really the last month or so, has been a big part of what we've done, whether when he's started or when he's come off the bench.
He's played great defense, Gold Glove caliber defense at all positions.  He's one of many guys who have been a big part of our success.
Q. Now that the day is finally here, can you talk about how special it is to have at least one home playoff game at Coors Field?
BUD BLACK: Yeah, it's great.  I was telling a few people earlier this morning what a great day for Rockies baseball and for Rockies fans.  It's going to be raucous out there.  It's going to be great.  It's going to be loud.  It's going to be cold, but I'm sure that our people are ready for that.  They are experienced Denver climate people.
I'm excited for everybody here, the organization, the fans, players, for all of baseball, to see Denver on a big stage.  It's good stuff.
Q. With this being an elimination game, do you take the approach of an all-hands-on-deck type of mentality, in other words, is everybody available, even Kyle included?
BUD BLACK: Yes.  Potentially yes.  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT