NL DIVISION SERIES: ROCKIES VS BREWERS
October 5, 2018
Bud Black
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I just asked this of Carlos Gonzalez.  He was the guy that was waiting around for a contract in the offseason, and you guys found a place for him.  This year a lot of ups and downs, but did you feel like somehow, some way he was going to be contributing for you in the postseason here?  
BUD BLACK: Did I?  First of all, pardon my voice.  It's a little dicey.  Yes, all along, I thought, even in Spring Training when Jeff and Carlos's representatives were talking about a reunion of Carlos coming back, and when it did happen, I felt as though -- I strongly felt that this was going to be a good year for Carlos, and I based it on what I saw the last six weeks of '17, where he found -- I think he found his stroke and found his game.   
And then when he got to Spring Training, he was in great shape, even though it was an abbreviated spring for him.  I thought he swung the bat great.  He was moving well, and when the season started, he got off to a pretty good start, which is not CarGo-like, right?  There's been some great stretches in there, which is more CarGo-like, where he's at times hot and then cool off and then get hot again.  But I think he's been a contributor all year, both on the field and off.  He's such a big part of the group inside the clubhouse, what he means to those guys, and still, we're not done.  I think there's still some big swings left in Carlos.   
 Q.  We know Trevor has had a phenomenal season.  As you've mentioned before, All-Star, possibly Gold Glove --  
BUD BLACK: MVP maybe.   
 Q.  My opinion, I may be wrong, it looked like his swing is not quite the last couple games, maybe not quite where you'd like to see it.  Are there some adjustments --  
BUD BLACK: Yeah, I mean, that happens.  I mean, during the course of six months, there's going to be times when you're really swinging the bat well, seeing the ball, recognizing pitches, and other times when you're not.  You know, I think right now, it's probably -- you might be closer to your opinion than when we've seen him really swinging great.   
You know, every game is different, and it can turn at any moment.  But he's had a great second half, I think a solid September.  But yeah, the last few games have been a little bit rough.  And they've been rough for a lot of guys now.  I mean, you go back to -- go back to Monday's game, Tuesday's game and last night, we've been shut down.   
 Q.  Gerardo Parra in the starting lineup today, what were some of the factors that went into that decision, and what are you expecting from him?  
BUD BLACK: Well, he's been swinging the bat very well with good at-bats.  I thought last night, two really solid at-bats.  Got the base hit off of Jeffress, and then the long extended at-bat that resulted in a deep fly to right center that Yelich caught, that was a good at-bat, too.   
A couple good AB's in Chicago in the Wild Card game, some good hits off the bench, the last number of weeks where he hasn't started, he's been really solid as far as his at-bats.  I thought in today's game, it made sense to start him.   
 Q.  Yesterday in here you said that Freeland and Marquez in some order when you get back home --  
BUD BLACK: Yeah, Marquez will pitch on Sunday.   
 Q.  What went into the decision for that order?  
BUD BLACK: Well, it's his -- as they lined up, even though it's regular days' rest, we thought Marquez, then Freeland.  They've pitched that way here the last number of weeks.  Give Kyle an extra day's rest after the short rest.   
 Q.  Tyler has been a lot better here the last few games.  In Game 162, you mentioned how good he was.  What do you think Tyler has done to get better because we've seen it at times when he's healthy, he's a really good pitcher?  
BUD BLACK: Yeah, well, I think with Tyler, it's just -- it really comes down to command of his pitches and hitting his spots.  We saw that last Sunday.  He pitched really well.  He basically hit the glove.  He hit the intended target, and that's pitching.   
I think he got away from that a little bit in August.  I mean, it just happened.  He didn't make a lot of quality pitches through his starts in August, which he did in July.  He pitched great in July.   
And the last few games, I think it's been closer to what we know that Tyler can do, is command the ball, change speeds, keep the changeup down, move the ball in and out.  I mean, that's what he does.  And he did it beautifully last Sunday.   
The start before that, he came up with a little bit of inflammation after the one start, but pitched pretty well in that game, too.   
 Q.  Adam Ottavino, the last couple of times out, against Baez, he said he got caught in between fastball or slider.  Yesterday with all fastball against Moustakas, is this a case of overthinking things a little bit because this guy has incredible stuff?  
BUD BLACK: Yeah, he does have good stuff.  Again, probably a better question for him.  I don't know whether you asked that.  Did you?  About overthinking?  Well, hey, a smart guy, right?  He might overthink some things at times, but I think he'll be the first to tell you that pitch execution is premium.  I mean, that's what has to occur.   
The last couple of times that we've had guys in the situation to put him away, he just has.  I think it's probably more physical than mental.   
 Q.  As you know, I only ask the real serious questions.  Your opinion, Pfister Hotel, haunted or not?  
BUD BLACK: No.  I've got no.  I'm not -- I'm not buying into that legend.  I do like the Pfister, though, but not haunted.  I've got no.  I mean, run a poll.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT