ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2017
Curtis Luck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You just shot the round of the week.  Your thoughts how do you feel?
CURTIS LUCK: Pretty good.  Yesterday was a bit rough, so to come back and obviously have a good one today is I guess good for the confidence for the rest of the week.  So hopefully this form continues, and yeah, I'm ready to get to the weekend and give it a crack.
Q. What was the key to the 65 today?
CURTIS LUCK: I putted really well today.  To be honest, ball-striking still wasn't unreal, but I just holed a lot of good putts today.  It made the difference.  Yesterday I kind of didn't have the speed on the greens.  Today I was spot on.
Q. How are you enjoying the whole experience in Abu Dhabi?
CURTIS LUCK: Oh, it's amazing.  Obviously the facility, the golf course, is unreal.  Where we're staying's great.  Got to go see the Mosque, which was amazing, the other day.  Yeah, it's just awesome.  I think we got the best golf weather in the world.  So yeah, it's hard to complain.
Q. Similar to Australia?
CURTIS LUCK: It's close, but it's about -- I don't know, another probably 15Ks of wind.  So it's a lot windier back home.  But yeah, right now, it's stinking hot.  So it's good to be out of that.
Q. How does it feel to be in contention with such a good field?
CURTIS LUCK: Yeah, just looking at the leaderboard, I'm still going to need a big weekend to catch up.  There's definitely low scores out there.  So I'm expecting to see the leaderboards keep climbing higher and higher with these guys.
Yeah, just got to try to keep up, post more good numbers and see Sunday afternoon I guess.
Q. What do you hope to get out of this week?
CURTIS LUCK: Every bit of experience I'm getting over the next three months is crucial to when I finally get ready to turn pro and play events like the Masters.  Just the overall, being here, the circumstances and getting to play with such great players is awesome.  I think yeah, just the experience.
Q. When do you plan on turning pro?
CURTIS LUCK: I'm looking at turning pro after the Masters.  I'm obviously extremely excited to play the Masters.  But yeah, potentially turning pro after the Masters and then trying to utilise some tournaments in the US, we'll see.
Q. Have you spoken to anyone about Augusta?
CURTIS LUCK: Yeah, had some good conversation with Spieth and Adam Scott.  And yeah, I think the biggest thing that comes in common with what they are saying is probably that the course just transforms overnight between Wednesday and Thursday; it's a completely different golf course.
Yeah, I'm excited to get there and just obviously see the place.  I think that's going to be the biggest thing that I have to get my head around, but yeah, so excited.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT