CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2007
Laura Diaz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURA DIAZ:  3, I hit a bad approach shot into the green.  I had 80 yards to the pin.  The pin was on 18 paces, and I hit it -- I had 16 paces still to putt, and then it just went in, I don't know. 
 THE MODERATOR:  What did you use to hit on? 
 LAURA DIAZ:  A sand wedge.  But I was in the rough and it didn't go anywhere. 
 6, I had 84 yards to the pin, but I don't even know what hole this is right now -- oh, and I made a nine-footer, nine-, ten-footer.  I hit sand wedge in. 
 And then on 7, I had 147 yards to the pin and I hit it with an 8-iron to about six feet.  That was the last of my birdies. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Last of your birdies, but you were still even par for the rest of the round.  You have to be pretty happy about that, especially as it's getting cold.  Are the greens holding a little bit better, though? 
 LAURA DIAZ:  I think they were reacting differently.  I think the greens themselves were still holding pretty well, but on 15, I hit it short of the green and it just went all the way to the back.  You know, I think when it starts raining, sometimes the greens absorb the water and sometimes it just kind of sits on top, so if you're chipping or you're hitting, then they skid instead of grab. 

 Q.  Yesterday you said you were frustrated coming in here.  Today -- you made the one long bomb, but you had a lot of other putts that seemed to come up short.  Was it the greens, the moisture? 
 LAURA DIAZ:  Well, I didn't have as many opportunities today as I did yesterday.  You know, yesterday and the day before I had a lot of 15-footers, inside 15 feet, and today the 15s, those were few and far between, and I was having a lot more longer putts, especially on the back nine. 
 I missed a couple of short putts on the front, but on the back I really didn't give myself too many great opportunities to make birdie. 

 Q.  How tough is it going to be for anybody to catch Lorena the way she's going the last couple days? 
 LAURA DIAZ:  You know, Lorena is a great player, she's having a fantastic year, and I expect nothing less than for her to go out tomorrow and have another great round.  It's going to be a matter of making more birdies. 

 Q.  Can you talk about how the weather, which just sounds like it's going to be worse tomorrow -- 
 LAURA DIAZ:  Really?  I thought it was supposed to be clear tomorrow.  Seriously? 

 Q.  There's a chance for rain.  How do you see yourself?  Are you a mudder or do you play well in the weather? 
 LAURA DIAZ:  Well, I played well today.  I think that rain is a matter of staying patient. 
 Today it wasn't the rain that really soaks your grips or soaks your clubs, it was just a steady rain.  There was no wind.  My feet are wet, but I never grabbed a club and it slipped out of my hand or anything.  It's just a matter of staying patient. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LAURA DIAZ:  I don't think so, no.  For me I would say it makes it play harder.  The rough is full of water, and you hit it in there and you're having a hard time getting it out. 

 Q.  Can you just talk a little bit about Lorena as a person?  It seems like I haven't heard a catty word about her yet.  Everybody just seems to adore her. 
 LAURA DIAZ:  We do.  She's a great person.  She's just an all-around incredible, fabulous girl.  She's sweet as sweet can be.  You know, she doesn't -- she's not selfish at all.  She is happy for you when you play well.  I personally love playing with her.  She's always encouraging me when we're out there, and that's fun.  She's a great spirit to be around. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 LAURA DIAZ:  I don't think so.  I mean, maybe on Sunday we've played together, but I don't know that it was the -- I doubt it was the final pairing, no.  I would say no.  You could probably look that up, but I don't think so. 

 Q.  Can you talk about that pin placement on 18?  It looks like players have a decision whether to go over the water, at the pin or kind of play it safe? 
 LAURA DIAZ:  Well, I don't think you consider going to the right playing safe because the way that green works, it feeds the ball in.  Where I hit my ball, it just stopped because it was wet. 
 I mean, the first day I was going at the pin, which was back right, and I hit slightly left of the pin, and it went all the way down to where the pin was today.  Where the pin was today, the green works the ball in there, so I don't think too many people are having to make a choice. 
 But if you're hitting it further off the tee and you've got a more lofted iron, then you can probably just take it right at it. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Laura.  Good luck tomorrow. 
 LAURA DIAZ:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT