HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2007
Laura Diaz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN:  Laura, first of all, congratulations, 22-hole victory.  Just talk about that marathon, if you would. 
 LAURA DIAZ:  Well, I was 3-up going into my 14th hole and I 3-putted for bogey.  Then I made bogey on 16 and then Charlotte hit a great shot on 16 into the green and 2-putted for birdie.  And I didn't make my putt. 
 So it then became a battle of pars.  And then finally on our last hole, I was able to make a putt.  I don't think I made a birdie all day until that hole.  So it was a long day. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  You seem a little discouraged despite your victory, Talk about looking toward tomorrow.  Is there stuff you need to work on? 
 LAURA DIAZ:  Just my putting, I guess.  I didn't strike the ball poorly.  I just never made anything.  I got it up-and-down when I needed to, and then I 3-putted and then from there, I kind of just lost some momentum. 
 But a couple of years ago here at the Sybase event, I made a big putt on the 18th green on the final day, and so that's what I was kind of pulling on on my last hole of the day today trying to do the same thing at the HSBC to get me into the weekend. 

 Q.  Can you talk about what it's like, the potential of playing 36 holes, what that grind is like, and is there anybody that has an advantage in that setup? 
 LAURA DIAZ:  Well, the advantage would be if your morning round ended quickly, I would say that would be the biggest advantage to the person playing in the afternoon. 
 You know, we all walk 18 holes every week, you know, six days a week.  So I think everyone's in good enough shape to get it around in 36 holes.  I think it just becomes a matter of mental toughness at that point. 
 I definitely think the benefit is if you can shorten your morning 18, make it as short as you can, which at this point in the game is probably a little tougher than it was maybe for some people in the beginning. 

 Q.  The 3-putt on 14, how long was it? 
 LAURA DIAZ:  The initial put was 20 feet, which was a poor approach shot because I only had 60 yards to the pin. 
 But I made a really good first putt.  It just kind of trickled out a little more, and I still only had probably a 4-footer from the back.  I just made a bad putt. 

 Q.  When you lose a 3-up lead on the back, was it difficult to putt it out of your mind, because the match is not over; and was there a shot after that that kind of steadied you and got you back on? 
 LAURA DIAZ:  I wasn't putting it out of my mind.  I was beating myself up pretty bad.  My husband is going into our first extra hole, our 19th hole, the past three holes I beat myself up and then I got it up-and-down on our 18th hole so stay in the match -- and hit a good shot on our 19th hole, and it got caught up on the wind and again I said something about myself, and he just said, "Let's focus on the positive here.  We got it up-and-down on the last hole to be here.  So let's keep using that momentum and try and get it done as quick as you can."  
 I hit some good shots coming down the stretch, still.  I hit a good shot going into, whatever hole that was, 16 the second time.  But it wasn't -- the putt wasn't aggressive enough to be made.  So just -- I just tried to keep hitting it in there as positively as I could. 

 Q.  Could you remember another week where you and Ron were playing LPGA and PGA simultaneously, has that happened before? 
 LAURA DIAZ:  Yeah, earlier in the year, where were we -- we had a rough -- we both had a rough day. 

 Q.  Colonial? 
 LAURA DIAZ:  No, it wasn't Colonial.  It was actually the National Club Pro.  It's not a PGA event, but it was for the PGA Championship.  That was the week of the U.S. Open, I believe.  Yeah, the week of our U.S. Open. 
 My brother is a great player and he's playing great and he just needs to get out there and be able to get comfortable.  He hasn't had the opportunity to play continuous weeks and I hope he makes the cut this week and gets some momentum for next week. 

 Q.  Are you staying at his place while you're here? 
 LAURA DIAZ:  No, Ron (Philo, Jr.) is no longer at Metropolis.  He is a consultant at Sugarbush (Golf Club, PGA Professional). 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  All right, Laura, thanks for coming in and good luck tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT