MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 10, 2005
Laura Diaz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Talk about your round being bumpy.
LAURA DIAZ: Yeah, I got lucky here and there, some shots that could have been really bad ended up okay.  I managed to make par a few times, and then I was able to keep the putter working today and make birdies.
Q.   Okay.  The putter, I had some background information this week that you were very happy with your putting.  Has that been what's kept you away from competing in this type of championship, and is that the difference this week?
LAURA DIAZ: I think putting is definitely the key to golf.  I think what happens is when they're not going in, your confidence goes, and when you see them going in, it brings a smile to your face and just makes everything else that much easier.  So, I'm feeling pretty good about the putter and hope that it continues for the rest of the year.
Q.   What about this championship, how are you finding yourself reacting to     I don't know, is the heat turned up a little bit, both literally and actually, you know what I mean?
LAURA DIAZ: It's actually turned up, actually.  I think, you know, we've got such great at this time on the LPGA Tour, that it comes through in the Majors, despite every week it comes through, too, but I think the Majors brings the talent that much more pronounced.  I think everyone was excited to play a new course to see what it's like.

It's different, because normally McDonald's we go back to the same course year after year, and, you know where it's going to kick, how it's going to bump, and this week we don't know that, so, I think everyone is a little, what's going to happen out there, and that makes it a little more exciting for our fans.
Q.   Now with two times around this course specifically, what are you thinking about for the weekend and how are you going to gear your game?
LAURA DIAZ: I'm going as to really try to focus on the fairways.  I missed a few the last couple of days, and that definitely is hurting me, and just continue to work on my putting and that's it, and my mental game.
Q.   What is it about    the last thing    the mental game, and you, and competing in this type of championship?  You're two rounds down, and you're right in the thick of it?
LAURA DIAZ: I don't know about this type of championship.  I don't know if it's specific to a Major, but, you know, my head hasn't been as good as I would like it the last couple of years.  The beginning of the year it started out, it was really good, and then I think I kind of hit a low spot, and hopefully I'm back on the upside of things, but like I said, I think it comes down to the putter.  If they're going in, your confidence is high.  If they're not, it's a little scary out there.
Q.   Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT