PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 29, 2014
Laura Diaz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Bogey free the first two days.   That's gotta feel pretty good.  
LAURA DIAZ:   You know, I didn't even pay attention to it until somebody texted me last night about it, and then of course, it was on my mind when I had a long bogey putt today‑‑ or par putt today.   But yeah, it's good.  
   
 Q.   What's been the key out there for you the first two days, two great rounds back to back?  
LAURA DIAZ:   I've given myself a lot of opportunities, you know, to‑‑ good looks at the hole.   You know, able to roll the putts in.  
   
 Q.   I know you've obviously been in contention a ton, but it was a four‑year stretch there until Marathon.   Did you learn anything from that?   Was that a different experience being back in the hunt again?  
LAURA DIAZ:   For sure.   I mean you know, you prepare as much as you can prepare, but I think that, you know, I've been away for a long time from that position, and it was definitely a learning and growing experience.   
I think, you know, I learned a lot from that week.   You know, it wasn't the result that I obviously wanted, but I'm staying patient and just trying to stay in the moment and not get ahead of myself at all.  
   
 Q.   I know you talked about the nerves at Marathon.   How have they been this week and how will they be this weekend?  
LAURA DIAZ:   Good.   I think that's one of the things that I learned from there, to embrace those and go with it and accept it.   And actually, you know, really like it.   
Just trying to enjoy what I'm doing, which is what I said yesterday.   You know, I've been really fortunate.   I've got‑‑ my father's taught me my whole life, so I was struggling earlier in the week, and I called him and he was like, do this, do this.   And I think that's something that's allowed me to stay out here for as long as that I have that I've got my dad who's my teacher, my husband who's my teacher as well.   I mean he does the same thing.   
And just the support system that's behind me.   You know, my mom helping my husband manage my son and so I think that's what makes life great being able to multi task.  
   
 Q.   Did the kids get to watch yesterday?  
LAURA DIAZ:   Oh, no.   Lillie‑‑ well, Cooper did, I guess.   He watched a little at home, but just watching real‑time scoring or whatever.   But yeah, he was aware of my score.  
   
 Q.   What's he think about mom being on the leaderboard now?   Is that pretty cool?   He's now at an age to kind of understand it and everything.  
LAURA DIAZ:   Yeah.   You know, he doesn't know, but he thinks it's‑‑ you know, he gets excited when I play well.   My mom I would say is probably my biggest fan.   And she gets very excited.   So I think her energy goes on to him and he gets excited.  
   
 Q.   Is she keeping Cooper this week?  
LAURA DIAZ:   Yeah, they're at our house.   My husband is home.   Kevin is home.   But mom is there to get him from school, do the afternoon activities and stuff like that so yeah, my right‑hand woman.  
   
 Q.   Is two more bogey‑free rounds possible out there?  
LAURA DIAZ:   You know what, I'm going to go out and do the best I can with what I have on every shot that I have and we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   What's been on great about your game this week?  
LAURA DIAZ:   Just been able to make some good solid pars and make my birdie putts.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT