MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2014
Laura Diaz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the round?   
LAURA DIAZ:   A little up and down.   Pretty steady.   It was exciting to make a two on 9.  
Didn't hit it very close so I didn't have tons of great looks at birdie.   I made a lot of good putts that didn't go in.   The last hole was another one of them.   Didn't have a solid read on it really.  
It was a fun day.   I enjoyed myself.   We'll see what tomorrow holds.  
   
 Q.   You talked about like the pressure yesterday.   Tomorrow you'll have even more being in the final group.   What's that going to be like and how much fun are you having?  
LAURA DIAZ:   I don't know that I said I liked the pressure.   There is in pressure.   My gosh, I'm grateful to have the opportunity to play golf for a living.  
I make myself nervous, but I really focused today on just going out and having fun.   I was able to enjoy myself out there.   Let a couple things slide that I think in the past may have irked me.  
But I felt good about today.   Just go out fun tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Do you have an idea what it's going to take tomorrow, a number, to win this thing?  
LAURA DIAZ:   No.   I never think that way.   I had the opportunity to make 18 birdies for the last three days and I didn't, so I'll go out tomorrow and give it my best shot and see what happens at the end of 18 holes.  
   
 Q.   What did No. 9 do to your round?  
LAURA DIAZ:   It meant a two.   Really, it was great.   I mean, I got the right kick on my tee shot.   By the way the crowd reacted, I could tell that it was close.   It's always nice to make eagles and give one for the Wounded Warriors.   
   
 Q.   How much will you watch the scoreboard tomorrow?  
LAURA DIAZ:   I don't watch the scoreboard.   In fact, I said to Pete yesterday, that's my caddie, as we were leaving 17 green, I said, Okay, we have 37 holes to play.   I don't want to see a scoreboard the entire time.   I had seen one on 17 yesterday.  
I'm not a scoreboard watcher.   I can't control what anyone else is doing.   I can only control a few things that I do, so I won't watch it at all.   
   
 Q.   What happened on No.4 there, the penalty stroke?  
LAURA DIAZ:   I was moving a stick and Pete was trying to be helpful and help me move the stick.   When he came in, the two sticks collided and moved the ball.   
   
 Q.   Okay.   Called it on yourself, right?  
LAURA DIAZ:   Oh, yeah.   I mean, my gosh, yeah.   No, yeah.   
   
 Q.   That's something that really could have upset your game.   
LAURA DIAZ:   Yeah, I think so.  
   
 Q.   How did you put it back in check?  
LAURA DIAZ:   I mean, it's an accident.   It could have happened to anybody.   The fact of the matter is he is trying to help me and he's out there trying to help me.   
So there was no reason or need to get upset.   Nothing we could do about it.   I had hit a bad tee shot.   I had put myself in the position.   So it's unfortunate what happened, but you just go with the flow.  
   
 Q.   Was the eagle then the universal way of putting it back in order there, getting the two strokes back?  
LAURA DIAZ:   The way I look at golf is you don't get strokes back.   We start a round and we add strokes to our scorecard on every hole.  
I think that it was nice to have a two instead of a three our four on 9.   I think thatI'm grateful for the opportunity that I had to make a two on 9.  
   
 Q.   Do you like that when they jockey holes like that?  
LAURA DIAZ:   Yes, I do, a lot.   Well, just because I think that, from what we hear they do it a lot on the PGA Tour.   They have a lot of holes that are reachable, a lot of par‑5s that are reachable, and I really think that that makes it more fun for us.  
It puts a little more thinking into the day, what you're going to do instead of what you do every time you get to the hole.  
   
 Q.   Will your son be watching tomorrow, do you think?  
LAURA DIAZ:   I think so.   I've gotten a phone call ever day saying, Go, mommy.   He is getting ready for a banquet, if not already at a banquet right now.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say, did he win?  
LAURA DIAZ:   We'll just have to see.   Mom knows.   I guess at this point I can say, yes, he's getting most valuable player for his age group on his swim team for the first year.   So it's pretty exciting.  
   
 Q.   It's been 12 years since you won a title.   Are you able to transport yourself back?   Maybe like getting on a bike again?   
LAURA DIAZ:   I can't say that I knew how to do it then, and I don't know that I know how to do it now.  
I think that it's one of those things that anything is possible.   You know, I've worked for how many years to go out and shoot the lowest score possible; that's what I'll be doing.  
   
 Q.   There will be ten players within three shots of you.   How chaotic might that be tomorrow with that many people with a chance?  
LAURA DIAZ:   It's not chaotic for me.   I haven't looked at a scoreboard in total for the whole week.   I think it's great for the fans.   I'm grateful for Marathon for having the opportunity to have this event back in Toledo again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT