MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 18, 2014
Laura Diaz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Score‑wise, kind of a pedestrian round through 12 holes, and then you really perked up late, stretched your lead out.   Talk about rallying toward the end there.   
LAURA DIAZ:   Well, I had made some good putts for par early in the round, but I wasn't quite hitting it as well as I did yesterday.   Yesterday there was just opportunity after opportunity within 15 feet over and over.   
Today didn't have that.   I was fortunate enough to get it up and down in the beginning of the round and then had a couple stumbles.  
But it felt good to make some birdies.   Made my first one on I guess 12, 13?   13.   Then we had to wait on 14 to hit, so that kind of, I don't know, madethings better a little bit.  
Yeah, felt good to make some putts coming down the stretch.  
   
 Q.   Did the afternoon groups have it a little bit harder with the breeze picking up, do you think?   
LAURA DIAZ:   I have no idea.   I wasn't out this afternoon.   It was a little breezy, but I think golf is a game you make it what it is.   
For me, it was just a challenge because I haven't been in this position in a very long time.   For sure haven't had cameras on me in a long time.   So I was anxious for them to go away I think in a funny kind of way.  
It was nice because Juli was out and she's one of my good friends.   It was nice have her face out there.   I got to say hi to my kids a couple times.  
I think you just kind of learn from your mistakes.  
   
 Q.   Where the emotions going into the weekend being in the lead, being in the final group?   What's this like?  
LAURA DIAZ:   I don't know.   They're kind of high, I guess.   I'm very fortunate to be in this position, I guess.   The thing is, a golf tournament isn't won after 36 holes or 54 holes.   
In this situation it's 72 holes, so there is a lot of golf to be played and lots of great players to go out and shoot lots of great scores.  
We all have 36 more opportunities to make 36 more birdies.  
   
 Q.   You said you were able to say hi to your kids.   How did you do that?   Was that out there?   
LAURA DIAZ:   Yeah, a lot of the Golf Channel cameras were out and I was waving.   They get in my face and I don't really know what to do.   I say, Hi, kiddos, I love you.   That kind of stuff.  
   
 Q.   You talked about the nerves yesterday.   Will those be worse tomorrow?   How do you deal with those?  
LAURA DIAZ:   I think I embrace them.   I think if I'm not nervous I should probably not be out here anymore.   I think it means it matters to me.   Everyone around me knows it matters.  
I think it's a good thing, so I just kind of say I play better when I'm nervous and go with it.  
   
 Q.   You talked about how you didn't know if you wanted to play this year.   What kind of sparked the fire to get back out here?  
LAURA DIAZ:   Knowing that I could manage being a mom and play.   I think that's something I've struggled with, for, well eight years.   When I only had one I think I got to a point where I was okay.   I knew I was doing okay with it.   
But two you've got twice as much time to try and get everything done.  
I love being a mom.   It's the greatest thing in the world, so I don't want to miss things.   It's hard for me when I have to choose between the two.   
So I made a list.   My family is first, and then golf comes second and work everything out in between.  
   
 Q.   Right.   Is that even difficult because your husband is also in golf and he has travel requirements as well?  
LAURA DIAZ:   Yeah, we've tried to do where both of us aren't away at the same time.   It's not worked out this week.   It's not working out great.   He's recruiting.   
I'm very fortunate I have amazing parents and they take care of our kids.   My mom is with my son this week, and then I have the opportunity to bring my daughter out here and have the LPGA day care help me.  
I have a great support system to make it all work.  
   
 Q.   Do you think your son will be watching tomorrow?  
LAURA DIAZ:   He'll be swimming in the swim finals.   Yeah, he's on swim team.   After he swims he'll be going to his banquet, which he just may get an award at.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   Maybe mom could get an award this weekend and he could, too.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT