SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 29, 2019
Jin Young Ko
Hinako Shibuno
Wei-Ling Hsu
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's your expectations for this week as defending champion?
NELLY KORDA: My expectations this week is just to have fun. It's a different golf course this year. I'm just going to take it day by day and see how it goes. I'm super excited to get this week going and see how it goes.
Q. You seem to feed off your sister, Jessica, in the Solheim Cup very well. Have you ever played against her in the same group in an LPGA tournament before?
NELLY KORDA: Yeah, actually a couple times. My rookie year, I played with her at Kingsmill and then we played together twice in Blue Bay. It was a lot of fun, actually, playing with her. I was just hoping I wasn't going to get on her nerves, but it was a lot of fun playing with her and hopefully we can do it many more times.
Q. You're sophomore, a second-year player on the Tour this year, but you have achieved so much in such a short period of time. How much of your accomplishments will be attributed to working with your sports psychologist? We know you have a sports psychologist; right?
JIN YOUNG KO: I have a coach in Korea, and then I'm learning, for two years, and then I'm learning many things from my mental coach, how to I play (and have) really fun out there. I think she's good, and then she make me better golfer. I will enjoy.
Q. Shibunosan, you are only the second player to win a major golf championship after Hisako "Chako" Higuchi. How does that change your life?
HINAKO SHIBUNO: After winning the major championship, people will recognize me on the street and the media will follow me around. So I'm kind of leading sort of a nervous life.
Q. We know when you were young, you used to play softball left-handed. You were a left-handed hitter, but now you're playing golf and you hit it right-handed. Why?
HINAKO SHIBUNO: I started playing golf and softball at the age of eight, but when I started playing softball, I was hitting left-handed. But my golf teacher said in order to balance my physical movement, I was playing golf and hitting right-handed. That's why I'm a right-handed golfer.
Q. Hand in a, your impressive win at the LPGA Championship this year is reminiscent of Karrie Webb and Yani Tseng in their prime. What do you think is the major factor that you were able to get over the hump and achieve a major win?
HANNAH GREEN: What I did differently, I traveled back to Australia. I felt like I spent a lot of time back home seeing my coaches and just seeing my family and my friends. So I think that definitely made me a lot happier when I was on the golf course, and also in contention. So I just felt like I was a different person out there, and just had a lot of support from the crowd and also my caddie. That's kind of what made it happen.
Q. We know you and Jarryd Felton one of the most coveted couples in all of golf and as golfers you obviously travel a lot. How do you manage a long-term relationship?
HANNAH GREEN: So we've been together for seven years and we've played golf for longer than that, so I guess we don't really know any different. We've always been traveling away from each other. It's definitely difficult, but I think it makes it a lot easier that we are both trying to achieve our dream and both play on the major tours around the world.
Q. What do you think about the expectations on you this week playing here in Taiwan?
WEI-LING HSU: I'm very excited and that people have high expectations of me, and I think it's wonderful, but I'm not going to be too hung up on that. I will just concentrate on my game on the golf course, and the goal is to pick up the trophy this Sunday. So we'll see what happens.
Q. What do you miss most about home?
WEI-LING HSU: I've been away on Tour for a while, and what I miss most about home is everything feels like home: The language, the food, friends, families; so great to come back home. I'm really excited to come home this week and play on my home course, sort of.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT