U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN
December 11, 2020
Hinako Shibuno
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Great round today; what was working well?
 HINAKO SHIBUNO:   Today my tee shots found the rough more often.  However, my second shots were pretty stable and able to par on to the greens.  So my golf today was pretty safe, stable condition.  At the same time, when it comes to the chance for a birdie, my putting was pretty good.
 Q. Does it feel like there's more pressure to win a major, having already won a major?
 HINAKO SHIBUNO:   No pressure whatsoever.  Now I'm going to the U.S. Tour and I'm playing a major in the United States, unlike when I was at the British Open, where I feel like I am starting from scratch.
 Q. You connected so well with the fans at Woburn.  Do you miss fans, and does it feel different out there?
 HINAKO SHIBUNO:   Well, I have been playing with no galleries, no audience this year, and I feel the importance of the presence of the audience very much, especially I feel a little -- I feel strange when I make a birdie and it is totally quiet when I make birdies.
 Q. You had the bogey on 16, I believe, on the back nine, the only bogey you had all day, and then immediately you got a birdie on the next hole.  Talk about steadying your nerves right there and getting things back on track.
 HINAKO SHIBUNO:   The bogeyed on the 16th hole, that was a three-putt, so I wasn't happy.  I really wanted to avoid a bogey there; however, the rest, 17th hole, 18th hole, there are only two holes left, so it's very difficult if you try to make a birdie and make a birdie.  So I tried not to mess up further.  That's all I thought playing back then, and then I was surprised the second shot was pretty good, so I was surprised at myself and able to make a birdie the next hole.
 Q. Would you join the LPGA if you were to win this week?
 HINAKO SHIBUNO:   By all means, yes.  (Laughter.)
 Q. How much did life change for you after you won the British in Japan?  Are you recognized everywhere you go?
 HINAKO SHIBUNO:   Well, I turned from a normal person to a celebrity overnight, and I don't know how to explain it, but I feel like I'm acting a good person.
 Q. Can you go out to dinner and do normal things like you used to, or do you find yourself staying home more?
 HINAKO SHIBUNO:   In Japan, even though I was wearing a mask, people recognized me.  Of course that's the purpose of playing golf professionally.  But you're right, it's more difficult for me to go out to dinner than before.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT