UNIVERSITY OF CENTRAL FLORIDA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 12, 2015
George O'Leary
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 UCF -7
  Stanford  -31 

COACH O'LEARY: It was the first play, really.  He got hit.  It was a good play.  He got hit, helmet hit his hand, and my understanding is he's out.  I don't know what injury it was.  I know he was in a splint, but we've got to get the two young freshmen quarterbacks ready to play.   
I think he went in there and really did a decent job.  But you've got to be able to run the ball and not just throwing action all the time.  We'll know more about the injury status when we get back in town and see what's going on from there.   
 Q.  Can you tell me about the different skillsets these quarterbacks bring to the table?  
COACH O'LEARY: About the same.  The two kids that played are very similar, very similar, both freshmen.  One's a red-shirt freshman, a true freshman, very similar.  I thought they gave us a lot of different looks secondary-wise, coverage-wise.  I thought the kids did a good job of getting the ball at times.  At times they didn't.  At times they made freshmen mistakes.  But overall, give credit to Stanford for clearing things up and putting some pressure on the quarterbacks when they need to do that.   
 Q.  How much did you game plan for what you guys wanted to do tonight?  
COACH O'LEARY: I think a lot, a lot.  But that's not the reason you lose games.  Your defense has got to play well.  I thought they played sporadically in the first half.  In the second half I was very displeased with just what we did from a lack of tackling to a lack of pressure.  Again, I think give credit to Stanford.  I thought they made plays when they had to make them.   
 Q.  How comfortable are you with these quarterbacks taking snaps straight from under center?  
COACH O'LEARY: Excuse me?   
 Q.  How comfortable are you with the quarterbacks taking snaps straight from under center as opposed to shotgun.  
COACH O'LEARY: They were in the shotgun.   
 Q.  Did Stanford do anything that surprised you, coach?  
COACH O'LEARY: Not really.  Changed up some coverages.  That's about it.  Did a nice job mixing some coverages.  Overall, I thought they did a nice job.  They gave up some plays but they came back to make a big play, which is what it's about.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT