TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CENTRAL FLORIDA v BAYLOR
December 29, 2013
George O'Leary
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How much fun is it for you to get involved in the defense again?  
COACH O'LEARY:   I love coaching.   That's why you're in the business.   I enjoy it.   I think sometimes a head coach is a very boring job on the practice field.   I think anytime you can get involved in the coaching aspect of it, helping youngsters get a little better each day, I think that's why you're in the business.   
   
 Q.   The kids have seen you as the head coach that goes from place to place, drops an observation here and there.   They're stunned at how much you know.   You're calling out plays before they happen.   Is it funny for you to show them the knowledge you have?  
COACH O'LEARY:   No, no, the kids have been great as far as responding to what's going on.   They understand I'm going to do whatever is in the best interest of them all the time.   
We got to go out.   The key thing we've got to do well is tackle well in space and get off that field.   You can't be sustaining drives out there.   Same with our offense, they've got to do the same as far as moving the chains.   
Baylor is a great football team offensively, defensively.   They've got players that can make plays.   We're looking forward to the game and anticipating the competition.   
   
 Q.   Is there a reason why you stand in the middle?   Are you able to see more?  
COACH O'LEARY:   I like to be right in the middle of the action, all right?   I've gotten clipped a couple times (laughter).   
   
 Q.   Do you worry about that at all?   
COACH O'LEARY:   I've gotten hit a couple times.   But football's contact.   As long as it's not full speed.   If I see it coming, I can get out of the way.   
   
 Q.   Have they done it on purpose?  
COACH O'LEARY:   I don't think so (laughter).   
I enjoy the way we've been working.   Same thing, man down, man up, life moves on.   You can't be worried about coaches or anything like that, you have to be worried about the kids being ready to play.   
   
 Q.   (Question about coaching on the field.)   
COACH O'LEARY:   I think Minnesota was the last time I coordinated.   
   
 Q.   Do you think Plummer is nervous having you stand two feet behind him?  
COACH O'LEARY:   If I had longer arms, I would be really nervous.   
   
 Q.   Coach, your offense has gotten plenty of attention because your quarterback is having a great year.   Their offense has, as well.   Your defense seems to fly under the radar.   Do you think that unit has taken a chip on its shoulder?  
COACH O'LEARY:   I hope they do have a chip on their shoulder.   But Baylor is a very explosive and good offense.   
The key to any game, you have to tackle well in space.   They put you one‑on‑ones a lot in space.   You have to make a play when you have the opportunity.   
That's probably going to be the key to the game I think as far as both sides, that ability to tackle in space, secure the hidden yardage.   
   
 Q.   Baylor's offense, the tempo they run at, is that something you can simulate in practice or something you just have to be prepared to deal with?  
COACH O'LEARY:   We ran a play every 18 seconds in practice this last two weeks.   It's the quality of the play that you can't simulate as far as you have your show team giving you an example.   
We run plays quickly, but it's not quality.   There's quantity, but there's not quality there that you'd like to see, that I'm sure Baylor is going to have.   
   
 Q.   You've had your fingers all over the defense since you got here.   Has your involvement allowed this to be an easier transition?  
COACH O'LEARY:   You hire coaches that want an opportunity to be coordinators.   We have three staff members that have earned it.   I'll be overseeing everything on the sideline.   We're looking forward to a great game.   
The Fiesta Bowl has been outstanding to us as far as being a host and us being guests.   
When you have an opportunity to make a play, you have to make it whether you're on offense, defense, your special teams.   
   
 Q.   Final few practices here, how are you holding up physically?   Guys healthy?  
COACH O'LEARY:   We're as good as we've been all year.   We have kids out.   As far as everybody that we ended the season with playing is available to play and they will play come January 1st.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT