UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 6, 2010
Roy Roundtree
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Roy, who did you vote for for team MVP? 
 ROY ROUNDTREE: Denard Robinson.

 Q. Was Troy even second choice for you guys? 
 ROY ROUNDTREE: No, Shaw had me laughing because I asked who he voted for, and he said himself. I was like, really? Like you voted for yourself? He's like, yeah, because I know everybody was going to vote for Denard, so I voted for myself so I could have one tally in there. But everybody knew who was going to win it because all the hard work that he put in all season, and it showed each game this year that he changed from freshman year and led this team to a Bowl game. So there's just always more room for improvement. 

 Q. Are you surprised, he's been in the spotlight the entire year, he just seems he has no desire to be in the spotlight. 
 ROY ROUNDTREE: Yeah, Denard is so humble, it's crazy, because he's like that every day. When he first came in he always wanted to learn something, and it's just the year it as progress, and just to see that he's always working to get better. He never just like took it, okay, I'm going up for a Heisman, nothing like that. He just always wanted to make sure the offense got better, just always the defense. He's just always a cheerful guy and he just never looked to be selfish.

 Q. Evaluate the season you had personally. 
 ROY ROUNDTREE: I felt like I played great all year, but lack of times, lack of focus on the football. I got down to myself because I knew I could play better than what I had played these last four games, and you know, it's just -- like I said, I'm only a sophomore, so I know this off-season I know what to really work on because I saw what I can do this year, and next year just come out even better. So I've got a whole off-season to get ready for, and it started today with workouts. 

 Q. Lack of focus, what are you referring to?
 ROY ROUNDTREE: Lack of focus, taking off without the ball in my hand. Drops, I had several drops this last game, and I just really looked at film on that, see what was going on, see what my weakness points were on that I know what I've got to do to get better. I never have lack of confidence. I'm still 100 percent confident in myself to go out there and practice come Friday, just go out there and give it my all.

 Q. Some of those times you were just looking to run before you had the ball secured? 
 ROY ROUNDTREE: Yeah, looking at film that's exactly what it was, didn't have the ball secured, just tried to catch it and go thinking a defender was right up on me but he wasn't. So I just know learn from my mistakes.

 Q. You've got to feel like that's something you can correct. 
 ROY ROUNDTREE: That's easily corrected, but it's just up to me to really like maintain that -- to be confident at every ball thrown my way, confident in catching the ball first before I make any moves.

 Q. How do you get yourself psyched up when you have a six-week layoff between your last game and your next game? 
 ROY ROUNDTREE: We're going to have a lot of workouts, you know, just staying in shape. That's the basic thing, staying in shape, getting stronger in the weight room, and when we do have practice, I'm pretty sure Coach Rod is going to have us ready. 
 You know, this last week felt great, getting our bodies back, so now we're 100 percent. Most of the guys that was injured are healthy now, so that can help us out, too, by the time January 1st comes around. 

 Q. What does it mean to be able to you guys to play an SEC opponent down there in Florida? 
 ROY ROUNDTREE: Oh, it's great. These past two years since I've been here, really watching Bowl games, it really sucked bad because I really couldn't do anything about it because of the season that we had. But to finally go out there and get ready to play Mississippi State come January 1st is going to be great because it's SEC versus Big Ten, and we're just trying to go in there and give it our all. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT