NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 20, 2011
Ronnie Brewer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RONNIE BREWER: That's the mentality we've been taking all year. We lose one, we got to come back twice as hard the next game.   
  
  Q. Do you expect anything different from them down there? Or is it more of the same, whoever plays better?   
 RONNIE BREWER: Yeah, they're going to come out with just as much intensity as they did in Game 2. Especially at home with the crowd behind them. We expect them to play their best every time they step on the floor.   
  
  Q. As a professional athlete, do you like sometimes winning on the road more than at home because you're taking something away from somebody?   
 RONNIE BREWER: Well, at this stage right now, we take a win at home or away, no matter where it's at. I think it's a little extra special when you go on the road and you beat them at their place.   
  
  Q. This question may have been asked: Can you discuss how you guys have not lost back-to-back games in three months?   
 RONNIE BREWER: Yes, basically we felt -- we come in the next day, we watch film and we look at what we did bad to lose the game. We come back with the mentality we're not going to win two and never three games in a row. And for us to be a great team, that's what you have to do. You have to make that adjustment and come back and perform better than you did the night before.   
  
  Q. You just said "three in a row." Two in a row, that's an extraordinary achievement, if you think about it.   
 RONNIE BREWER: Yes, but I think we have the characters on this team that we compete. And we don't want to have a letdown. I think Thibs works hard to make sure we don't have letdowns. I feel we go out there and play harder -- not that we don't go out there and play hard before, but when we lose the night before, we play extremely hard the next time.   
  
  Q. You've played with Kyle for a long time. He's in a little bit of a slump for him right now. Do you see him long enough to see as cold as he might be one game to the next, he can get super hot also?   
 RONNIE BREWER: That's what shooters do. They have hot streaks and they have cold streaks. I know Kyle works on his game every day. If you were looking at the shots he was taking, there was a lot of in and outs, shots he usually knocks down. I'm not really worried about him with his confidence and making shots. He's going to put to work where every time he shoots the ball the next game, he's going to feel like it's going to go in.   
  
  Q. You guys took away the lane from LeBron that first game.   
 RONNIE BREWER: Uh-huh.   
  
  Q. And that second game they took away the lane from Derrick. How big is that, and how do you go about closing the lanes up?   
 RONNIE BREWER: We have to play better team defense, show a lot of help. Guys have to pull over. We have to play without fouling. We put those guys on the free-throw line double or triple amount that LeBron did the game before. D-Wade got to the free-throw line as well. So we have to play without fouling and give guys multiple looks. If we can do that, I think we get a win.   
  
  Q. The fact that you talked about responding to losses, the fact that you've made a habit of doing that well all season, does that help you then in the playoffs? Is that second nature to take it a level up?   
 RONNIE BREWER: I guess it's second nature, because I don't think any team plays to lose. But it's a little pride thing that you don't want to lose two games in a row. We want to come back there and bounce back and get back on the right page, because things can go bad quick. You don't want to get into a habit that one game leads to two to three losses. So you usually try to turn it around as quickly as possible.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT