AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v ATHLETICS
October 6, 2003
Ken Macha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Do you have any doubts that Zito is healthy and ready to go?
 
KEN MACHA: All I can go by is when he threw on the side over there in Boston, and he said he felt great.  He caught an early flight and got here long before we did, so he should be good to go. 
 
Q.   What do you think the secret of hitting Pedro is and what will you tell your team before the game?
 
KEN MACHA: I'm probably not going to say a whole lot.  We've had a decent approach against them.  We've got his pitch count up a bunch the two games we've played them.  These guys have faced them already, and we've got some runs off them.  What I say before the game, you know, we played 166 games, there's not much we can say.  Go get 'em and relax and play. 
 
Q.   Do you have any update on Hudson's oblique strain yet or is it too early to tell?
 
KEN MACHA: He went to get an MRI today and I saw him in the locker room, talked to him, and they're going to have the doctor look at him when he comes back, when the doctor gets here. 
 
Q.   How do you get these guys back on track?  How does that happen in a short series when the guys are struggling at the plate?
 
KEN MACHA: That's a good question.  In these two particular cases, they were trying to hard.  I would like to see them back off a little bit and do what they can do.  I had a little bit of an overview over all these four games here.  They've been tremendous ballgames, decided in the last inning, three of them.  One game we didn't play very well, and one game they didn't play very well.  We need to go out there and just play a good solid ballgame, relax, play.  It's probably going to be another great game tonight.  I wouldn't really consider them struggling.  To me, when I hear people saying they're struggling or this or that or whatever, all of these have been great ballgames, let's go play another great ballgame tonight and leave everything on the field and just relax and let it fly. 
 
Q.   How has the mood been in the clubhouse today?  Was there any apprehension about losing the last two?
 
KEN MACHA: I think there is more apprehension in the articles in the paper.  These guys are ready to play.  They have confidence with Barry going out there.  Some of the guys viewed the games in Boston, as we played well enough to win, particularly yesterday.  What a turnaround once Hudson went out of there to have our bullpen come in there and pitch as well as they did.  It was disappointing not to close it out.  We battled the whole time and the previous day we had a couple of chances to score.  But, like I said before, the emotion level, Eric sliding in and running into the catcher and his knee hurt, and the emotions take over rather than the focus of what you should be doing.  I want emotions to be under control and just go play the game. 
 
Q.   Did you read in the paper today that Tim Hudson story?  Did it catch you by surprise?  Did you talk to Tim, and was there anything to it?
 
KEN MACHA: I was made aware of the article and I spoke with Tim.  To me, it's a nonissue.  He explained to me what happened, and nothing happened. 
 
Q.   Talk about Barry Zito and the fact that he's not used to pitching on three days' rest.  How did that influence you?
 
KEN MACHA: We'll see how he's doing.  I try to always see how the game dictates with Barry.  I just look at it, everybody is probably available today.  Ted Lilly, checking out of the hotel yesterday and Ted Lilly came up to me and said, if you need an inning, you've got one out of me tomorrow.  Everybody is ready to kick in.  We'll see if we can score some runs off of Pedro and turn it over to the bullpen. 
 
Q.   Going back to the question on Tim Hudson, is there any worry what might have happened in the bar had to do with the strained oblique muscle?
 
KEN MACHA: Nothing happened in the bar. 
 
Q.   Is Ramon okay?
 
KEN MACHA: I haven't talked to him.  He is in the lineup.  Yesterday he went out to take BP.  Yesterday he said his back was starting to get stiff and he went out to take BP, he said he couldn't go.  I talked to him after the game and he said he was feeling pretty good.  I haven't talked to him.  I just put his name in the lineup.  If the case be and Melhuse gets back there, he did an admirable job yesterday.  And you've got to go with what you got. 
 
Q.   The thing that apparently didn't happen in the bar, is that you taking the two players' words for it or is the club looking into it?
 
KEN MACHA: Here again, I think it's a nonissue.  My focus is on the game today.  As it was explained to me, it's absolutely  -- he's sitting there and he's amazed at what this thing has been blown out to.  It's a nonissue.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT