AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: TIGERS v ATHLETICS
October 11, 2006
Ken Macha
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KEN MACHA:  Well, I guess some rather disturbing news coming out of New York about one of our former players Cory Lidle, who pitched very well for us when he was out here.  I guess as spokesman for the organization, I'd like to offer our condolences to the family.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk a little bit about what you most can remember about Cory as both a pitcher and as a person?   
 KEN MACHA:  Well, I can remember the August he had for us.  He had -- his ERA was like 0.05.  He pitched a one-hitter against the Rangers when they had a very potent lineup, as if they don't right now.   
 I believe Pudge got the only hit; I'm not sure.  That would be something to look at.  I've got a pretty good memory; that might be.   
 I've got a little bit of a humor story.  He was pretty much a -- he was going to do things his way, so Rick was the pitching coach here, Peterson, and we went to Baltimore.  We were playing the Orioles, and the order was not to throw John Gibbons any change-ups.   
 So Gibbons came up, there were two men on base, and he threw him a change-up and he hit it over the fence for a three-run homer.  So naturally Rick Peterson wasn't very happy.  I went over there and he was kind of chewing him out a little bit.   
 I was keeping my chart over there where these balls were hit, so I had the spot marked right there.  I could see the seat where it went in in Baltimore.   
 Next at-bat Gibbons comes up and there's two men on again.  He threw him another change-up and he hit another homer.  I swear to God it went in the same seat.   
 But Cory, you know, I'm not sure if that was the year we won the 20 in a row, but that August he had was something else.  I think it was a 0.05 ERA.  It was terrific.   
  
  Q.  Could you just go over your lineup for tonight, if there's any changes?   
 KEN MACHA:  The only changes is Chavie is hitting fifth and Payton will be hitting sixth, from last night.   
  
  Q.  Had Cory ever discussed his interest in aviation at all with you all?   
 KEN MACHA:  You know what, I believe he might have started the lessons when he was here.  You know, I'm not sure of that.  I couldn't tell you 100 percent.  I can't answer that.  I don't know when he started getting the lessons.   
  
  Q.  Any sense about how hard this is hitting some of the guys in the clubhouse who played with him?   
 KEN MACHA:  I couldn't answer that one, either.  I just found out about it minutes ago.  I've got a lot of duties here with all the -- talking to all the television and radio people.   
  
  Q.  As you say, we're all just digesting this, but do you anticipate addressing the team at all about this?   
 KEN MACHA:  I think we're going to have a moment of silence for him tonight, so I'm sure everybody -- I imagine our chapel guy will be around.   
  
  Q.  Do you think it could impact the way the game is played?  I mean, Cory is a guy that almost everyone involved in this game and the other game either would have faced at some time or knew personally.   
 KEN MACHA:  I'm sure people are going to have their feelings about it, just maybe put the game in perspective, you know.  I know myself personally, I just -- this thing could end at any second, and sometimes that's the way life does end.   
 So personally it's tragic.  Tough to describe.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT