SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2009
LaSondra Barrett
Van Chancellor
Allison Hightower
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We're joined by LSU, have a brief statement on the sophomore guard Latear Eason was taken to Baptist Spring Hill Hospital for x-rays following a collision at the 5:33 mark. In the first half, she stated she had severe neck pain, but no loss of body movement. We are awaiting the results of the x-rays at this time. 
We're joined by LSU head coach Van Chancellor, Allison Hightower, and LaSondra Barrett. Coach? 
 COACH CHANCELLOR: I thought tonight it was a crazy win for us. This was a difficult match-up for us. They're long, they're lean, they do a lot of things and they already beat us twice. And we lose Eason, and our kids jumped in there, we found a way to win. 
 I can't say enough for Hightower, I don't think there is any kid that has done for her team than Allison Hightower. 
 Any questions? I'm spent, staying up till 11:00 is hard on an old man. 

 Q. There were nightmares --
 COACH CHANCELLOR: Yeah, nightmares of the game in Baton Rouge when she made it, and I told 'em not to back up off of her. When she got to the free-throw line, I felt good about her. 
 She has been a 75% free-throw shooter, she is a freshman, but I thought if she made the first one, she would make the second, and we went up five. I thought that Hightower and I could squeeze it out then. 

 Q. You talked on the teleconference earlier this week about Allison and her stepping up. It really looked like she put the team on her back and carried you guys to the next round tonight. Talk about what she did. 
 COACH CHANCELLOR: When your coach calls every play at the end of the game for you, you ought to carry it on your back. No, I'm kidin' you. She got the ball, we screamed for her, they just didn't have an answer for her. 
 She played unbelievably well tonight. I thought in the first half she came in here and wanted it so bad, she tried too hard. She got in foul trouble and that was a blessing in disguise. 
 We held on for a while and that allowed us to rest her, and she was 10 for 17, three rebounds. She is the real thing. If we were advertising Coca-Cola, Allison Hightower was Coca-Cola. 

 Q. Allison, a comment on your victory? 
 ALLISON HIGHTOWER: We got the victory, we have to play well against Vandy tomorrow night and get ready for them. 
 COACH CHANCELLOR: That's about as much as she has said all year, quiet girl. 

 Q. LaSondra, what are you going to do for the semifinals? 
 LaSONDRA BARRETT: Prepare and rest and do what we need to win, do what the coaches tell us. 
 COACH CHANCELLOR: Is that about it tonight? 

 Q. I'm going to ask you about Mississippi State. Do you think they're a tournament team? 
 COACH CHANCELLOR: There is no doubt in my mind they're an NCAA tournament team. I tell you how to successfully diet, if it tastes good, spit it out. 
 And let me tell you about the NCAA, throw all the resumes out, and say who do I not want to play in the NCAA playoffs, I'm telling you right now the Mississippi State Lady Bull Dogs, I've had enough, I don't want to play them for another year. 
 Yes, they're one of the 33 best teams out there. And I don't do this -- I didn't do this when I was on TV, I don't spout for the SEC unless I believe in it, I'm not going to tell you something just to say it. I think Mississippi State won a game last night, played a team that I hope is hanging tough, but I think we're pretty hot right now. That's the problem -- oh, forget it, I'm just glad we won. Thank you very much. Let's go, women. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT