NASCAR XFINITY SERIES: POWERSHARES QQQ 300
February 17, 2018
David Elenz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We're joined by today's race‑winning crew chief, David Elenz. This was the closest margin of victory in NASCAR national series history, 0.000. Just your thoughts on that? 
DAVID ELENZ: I don't even know what to think about the day. To beat your teammate and have it be that close, that's incredible. I couldn't tell who won. It's neat to win here. It's neat to have the closest finish ever. It's just a lot of fun. 

Q. I was listening to your radio. Were you guys a little bit confused at first? Were you thinking there were only three overtimes? 
DAVID ELENZ: I was wishing there was only three, yeah. No, you forget in those moments, and we were so close to the start‑finish line. I was going with the over thinking we were good. But yeah, we were a little bit confused and excited, so yeah, I'm glad we learned the rule correctly and came out with the win. 

Q. When you think you've won and then you're still racing, what are the feelings of, oh, we're going to win versus, oh, just no way can you win twice? 
DAVID ELENZ: It was, oh, we're going to run out of fuel. That was‑‑ I mean, we were very close on fuel, and that was‑‑ it went from excitement to just being concerned about fuel and trying to figure out how we're going to get the box full to take off. 

Q. Do you like unlimited attempts‑‑ 
DAVID ELENZ: When I have enough fuel, yes. I mean, I thought it was great. They had a bunch of restarts, and I mean, it made for an exciting finish. I think it would have been disappointing if we finished under caution. The way the racing had been all day and the show that all the leaders put on all day, it would have been disappointing to finish under yellow, so I think unlimited is a good thing. 

Q. What does it mean for you guys to win in Xfinity's 100th race in NASCAR? 
DAVID ELENZ: Yeah, I mean, that's pretty special. They've done a great job with the sport and promoting it. It's very special to be the 100th win with them. Just kind of have your name with it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT