BUICK OPEN
July 28, 2005
Billy McKay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Inaudible?
BILLY McKAY:  125, 128 to the pin, looked good the whole way and spun a little left and positioned to go in the hole.

I couldn't believe it at first, I was swinging, that ball, it gets closer and closer and all of the sudden disappeared.  It was great.
Q.  Tiger's score    inaudible?
BILLY McKAY:  I wanted to make that last one to beat him by one.
Q.  Can you talk about the crowd, what that meant and how you played?
BILLY McKAY:  It was so much fun.  I really appreciate all of the support they gave me out there.  I got that one bogey and they kept on yelling and I was able to battle off two birdies in a row.  Whenever I got down, they just keep on cheering.
Q.  Were you nervous at all?
BILLY McKAY:  At first I wasn't that nervous and then they said my name and the crowd started clapping and I got really nervous.
Q.  Inaudible?
BILLY McKAY:  I thought it was going to be a little short but they have got kind of    it was a good shot.
Q.  You and your family and friends    is that pretty cool?
BILLY McKAY:  He doesn't go to my high school; the opposing high school.  Yeah, we're really good friends.  We play out here all the time together.  His name is Dave Suska.  (Phonetic).
Q.  What do you usually shoot?
BILLY McKAY:  We're around even, usually, 71, 72, 73.
Q.  Are you going back to the Leadbetter Academy?
BILLY McKAY:  I don't know.  I haven't made my decision yet.
Q.  What are your thoughts now?
BILLY McKAY:  You know, I've still got to get out there and work hard tomorrow and keep on grinding.  I don't know what the cut is going to be or anything, but I just wanted to get out there and play my game, not get caught up in yesterday's round or anything.
Q.  Inaudible?
BILLY McKAY:  Put a good swing on it on 18 tee and just came over it.  I had no choice but to chip out and then the next shot, it was an okay shot, got on to the green, but, oh, well.
Q.  Are you going to go practice or go home?
BILLY McKAY:  I still haven't thought about that yet.
Q.  What was the experience like now, is it up to what you thought it might be, what the crowd to be like?
BILLY McKAY:  Yeah, I thought I could shoot like a 71 or maybe around there.  I didn't expect anything like that.
Q.  Did you speak with any other players?
BILLY McKAY:  During the round?
Q.  After the round.
BILLY McKAY:  A couple of players came up to me and said good luck today.  Everyone's been really nice.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT