NBA FINALS: HEAT v MAVERICKS
June 14, 2006
Josh Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Just talk about how mentally tough this team is to get over the hump of losing a did he have devastating loss like that? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  I mean, it was hard on us, but we know we had the opportunity to close out that game.  We just have to be more focused in those last six minutes.  I think we'll be all right. 

 Q.  I'm curious about you mentioned those last six minutes of the game and Dirk very descriptively talked about remembering missing that free throw.  What was it like for you guys, you guys are used to seeing him being very automatic when it comes to that one, seeing him miss that second one, was it surprising? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  Yeah, it was a surprising thing but nobody is perfect in this league.  You're going to miss free throws and you're going to miss shots.  I think that's going to motivate him for next game.  I'm looking for big things out of him. 

 Q.  You had a big third quarter, but in the fourth quarter you didn't score.  Did they do anything different in the way they were defending you, especially James Posey? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  Not really.  I just didn't get no touches, you know what I'm saying.  Our other guys were feeling shots and making shots.  For the most part it's not a big deal when I don't touch the ball in the fourth quarter, but it will be all right. 

 Q.  How much of a difference is it for you being defended by Posey compared to Walker, and is Walker a disadvantage because he's not used to playing a lot of three until this year? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  Both of those guys are great defenders, man.  For the most part, like I said, I didn't really touch the ball in the fourth quarter regardless of who was on me.  Like I said, it wasn't a big difference. 

 Q.  What was your night like last night?  Dirk was saying he waited three hours for room service and does a game like that kind of fire you up? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  What was my night like last night?  I went out with my family.  That was about it.  Came back and went to sleep, thought about the game.  Just getting ready for the next one. 

 Q.  Does that kind of game fire you up extra, the way it went down? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  As far as us letting the game slip away like that, yeah.  We were supposed to win that game.  We've been in situations like that before where we've closed out games.  Get ready for Game 4. 

 Q.  What did you think of Dwyane Wade down the stretch, and the way he got up for the rebound and on that lob play, does it make you suspicious of his limp? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  He's been saying he's been hurt all series.  Like I said earlier in the series, nobody has legs, but at certain times, you're going to have your legs.  He put his team on his back and won the game for them. 

 Q.  Where your team got out rebounded last night by 15, you only had five rebounds, and you're usually a very good rebounder.  Is there a concern on your part and what are you going to do tomorrow night to make sure that you win that battle? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  Well, just try to be more assertive on the rebounding side.  Try to box out more guys.  I mean, just try to get my hands on more loose balls if anything.  That's the first thing in the playoffs, losing the rebound battle.  We still had the opportunity to win, so it didn't hurt us that much.  But once we win the rebound battle, we pretty much win games. 

 Q.  This is the first time you scored 20 points or more this season and your team doesn't win the game.  Any other things that you can do to help your team besides scoring, now that you see even though you score 20 or more, your team didn't win? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  I'm just glad it's out of the way.  I'm glad we finally lost a game so we can stop talking about it. 
 It's not been a big deal to me.  I've been doing other things to help my team win all year.  Score 20, make ten rebounds, it doesn't matter.  We're going to try to win the game. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT