NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 29, 2006
Josh Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   JOSH HOWARD:  Yeah, I mean, like I say, I'm just going to keep going out there taking shots, taking good shots not rushing anything.  If I get 20 points, that's great.  If I get 10 points that's even better. 
 Q.  (Inaudible) seriously, when you're out there, gotta get 40? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  The only time I think about it is the media says something about it.  That's cool.  It's a nice accomplishment. 
 Q.  When you look at the scoreboard, Josh, should you be looking at your personal point totals instead of the totals?  If you get to 20 you win? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  I never look at that.  It's more than points in this team, you know. 
 Like I said, I'll do whatever I can do to help my team. 
 Q.  Does that translate -- does that translate, Josh, also to the (inaudible) offensive end that makes you more active like you were last night on the defensive end? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  Actually, I tried to feed off my defense.  I'm more (inaudible) defense I try to be more aggressive on offensive end. 
 Q.  Starts with defense? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  For me, yeah.  (Inaudible) no problem getting out there trying to guard anybody. 
 Q.  Josh, this team showed a lot of toughness last night, and I think for people who don't follow you guys, it may have been a surprise given the past.  Has this been here all year for you guys? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  I'll say it's been here since Avery has been our coach.  Not taking anything away from him, he's a great coach.  He wanted us to play all night every game, but when Avery came he wanted us to play hard and not back down from anybody. 
 Q.  You guys kept your turnovers low.  I don't think you had them in the last 16, 17 minutes last night.  How important was that for you guys? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  It's real important.  Anytime you can get extra possessions without turning over the ball and letting it go into the other team's possession it's great. 
 Q.  Were you surprised to see Marion on you? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  There's no more surprises. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT