NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 26, 2006
Josh Howard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Josh, what was the situation today?  How soon or how late did you know that you were going to play and/or even start, considering the ankle? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  Well, as far as that, I kind of waited until I got to the game.  Did my pregame rituals, seeing how it went.  It was all right.  It was sore but I was able to keep playing.  And came out and decided to play. 
 Q.  Josh, how did the ankle affect you during the game? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  I mean not much.  Like I said, I had some pain cutting in and out, but for the most part I fought through it. 
 Q.  Josh, Avery talked about the intensity over the last three minutes of Game 1.  Seemed like tonight you had the intensity back and were much more focused? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  We knew we didn't want to go to Phoenix down 0-2, a difficult situation.  And they have a great home court team and we have to be ready to step up and take the challenge. 
 Q.  Josh, how healthy are you, 80%, 60%, how do you feel? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  I mean numbers are so hard to say, because everybody has their own view of numbers.  But me personally, I think I'm 95. 
 Q.  You came out really aggressive, was that just to make sure you could move and cut and do what you wanted to do? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  No, I did all that in my pregame ritual.  Once I got out on the court I knew it was game time and I wanted to start off the game like I did in Game 1. 
 Q.  You talked about the pace and it was a little more palatable for you guys? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  We just got into our game plan.  Did great job.  Diop came in, played a great game for us.  We'll need him to do it night in, night out. 
 Q.  Did you actually talk to Avery about starting, did you have a conversation with him? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  No, usually when I come back from injuries that's my normal role.  I only came off the bench one time coming back from injury and that was against Phoenix. 
 So it wasn't no question I knew I was going to start. 
 Q.  Josh, the Mavericks are 22-0 when you scored 20.  Why didn't you just take a million shots and make sure you get 20? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  No, that's not me.  You know -- I've heard that all year.  I just take the shots that are given to me.  If I get up to 20, we usually win. 
 Q.  Does that stat, though, make you -- they bring it up to you all the time, what do you think when you see that stat? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  It's a blessing that I can do the things I do.  Helping my team win is what I always want to do.  That's my number one priority and I'm going to go out there and do it. 
 Q.  How did it feel playing your first game without braces? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  It's nice.  A lot of people still haven't noticed it yet, but I've got some compliments. 
 Q.  Defense clamped down and contained Steve Nash particularly in the second half, that's part of the plan? 
 JOSH HOWARD:  I think the plan was to play defense on everybody.  Steve, Tim, I mean Diaw, whoever we could stop we was going to do it.  And I guess tonight it was Steve's night even though he was out there real aggressive I think he had 12 or 8 assists and we contained him and that's what we wanted to do. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT