NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 14, 2020
Luka Doncic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you believe how fast this has gone from Europe to here?
LUKA DONCIC: No, not really. It's all gone so fast. A lot of things happened in the last, I would say, five years since I was a kid in Real Madrid now to the All-Stars. It's been going really fast.
Q. Can you talk about the new wave of NBA players, with you, Zion coming in? How do you see him, and how do you see yourself fitting in?
LUKA DONCIC: You can see he's a beast since he's been like -- what's he played, like 10 games? He's averaging like 25. He's a different beast. I don't think we've seen a player like him, and he's going to be an amazing player.
Q. Your expectations for this All-Star weekend?
LUKA DONCIC: Just have fun, enjoy. Take in every moment I can and just enjoy.
Q. I have a question about the EuroLeague: Have you heard about Deni Avdija, a top draft pick? Can you give any advice?
LUKA DONCIC: Yeah, I heard of him. My advice? Just keep working hard. I don't know. That's my advice. Keep working hard. Enjoy playing basketball.
Q. They compare him to you.
LUKA DONCIC: That's nice.
Q. The state of the NBA coming from games in Europe to here. What's the big difference?
LUKA DONCIC: I think the rules are different. I think there's a lot more team basketball in Europe. It's tougher to score for sure because of the rules, and the court is smaller. It's different rules, so it's different basketball.
Q. Between the first half of the season and the second half, what's the plan?
LUKA DONCIC: Make the playoffs.
Q. What do you miss more from European basketball?
LUKA DONCIC: Real Madrid.
Q. Talk about Rui Hachimura.
LUKA DONCIC: He's going to be a great player. He's shown he can do a lot of things out there. I think he's going to be an amazing player.
Q. A lot of players start the game at a young age. I know that you were playing very young professionally. What do you say to those young players in reference to how to achieve their goals on the basketball court?
LUKA DONCIC: Just work hard, have fun with it. Find what you love. If you love playing basketball -- that was for me. I just loved being at practice. I loved being out there just playing basketball. That's my advice.
Q. On being an All-Star:
LUKA DONCIC: It's something special. Just to be here in the All-Star Game is something special. I always dreamed about it as a kid. Now I'm here, and it still feels unreal. Maybe it's a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. I will enjoy it.
Q. Anything in particular you're looking forward to?
LUKA DONCIC: No, just have fun. Enjoy it.
Q. Luka, after one-half season, do you realize you bring to the NBA something special, something different than the usual international players, even from American players? I mean, your approach to the game.
LUKA DONCIC: There are a lot of international players that are really good. That's what this All-Star shows, that there are a lot of international players. So I think the world can see that we can play basketball too.
Q. Yeah, but what makes you different from the other people?
LUKA DONCIC: You have to ask others about that. I don't know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT