NBA DRAFT
June 21, 2018
Luka Doncic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LUKA DONCIC: It feels amazing just to be an NBA player.  It feels amazing.  I'm just happy to attend the draft, and I'm very happy to be a part of the Dallas family.
Q. The last year or so having won multiple championships, MVP awards and now being a high lottery pick in the draft, what has this last year been like for you?
LUKA DONCIC: Honestly, it's like a dream.  It's like a dream.  I've been dreaming about being a EuroLeague champion, being a European team champion, being drafted.  All this year has been like a dream.
Q. Tell me your thoughts on the possibility of playing with Dennis Smith, Jr., and what do you know about the Mavericks as far as Dirk Nowitzki?
LUKA DONCIC: Yeah, I saw a lot of Dennis.  He's an amazing player.  He's an amazing point guard.  And of course Dirk Nowitzki, he is example for everybody.  He's achieved so much.  He's a legend.  He's a leader.  So I'm really glad that I can be there.
Q. Did you have a chance to come and work out with the Mavericks any?
LUKA DONCIC: No, I was playing finals in Spain, so I didn't work out for anybody.
Q. Were you surprised about the trade?
LUKA DONCIC: No, I've been talking to Dallas a lot.  They really wanted me, and they were very, very nice.  They were very nice to me, and I think we had a very good relationship.
Q. What are you most excited about in playing in the NBA?
LUKA DONCIC: You know, just playing, again, all these superstars like LeBron, Stephen, KD, Harden, playing against these superstars.  I think that's the most exciting thing that I can say.
Q. Talk about your success over in Europe, EuroLeague MVP and how that high level of success will translate to the NBA game?
LUKA DONCIC: I think it will happen.  I've been professional since I was 15.  I played against EuroLeague stars, against ex-NBA players.  I had four or five players on my team that played in the NBA.  They've been talking about the NBA to me a lot through this year.  So I think I'm prepared.
Q. A lot of people have compared your career arc to Drazen Petrovic.  What are your thoughts on that?
LUKA DONCIC: Drazen was an amazing, amazing player.  I've seen a lot of videos of him.  If I would be like Drazen, it would be amazing.  But I need to work more.  I need to work more.  I need to work harder, and I need to put a lot of work if I want to be like Drazen.
Q. Have you followed Yugoslavia basketball growing up?  Obviously you were born past that era, but do you consider yourself like a historian in Yugoslavian basketball?
LUKA DONCIC: In Yugoslavia we had some amazing players, and we still have.  There's a lot of players in NBA, too, like (Nikola) Jokic, (Milos) Teodosic, have a lot of Yugoslavia players, and I think I can be part of that, yeah.
Q. Were you disappointed you didn't end up getting picked by a Slovenian national team coach (Phoenix's Igor Kokoskov) or playing under Peja Stojakovic or Vlade Divac in Sacramento?
LUKA DONCIC: I'm going to text him later and say I'm mad at him.  No, I'm kidding.  It's amazing for me to be third pick, and as I said, it was a dream come true.
Q. You said a couple days ago that it was a goal for you to play for the next window for Slovenia.  Are you still planning on playing with the national team in 10 days?
LUKA DONCIC: I don't know.  I will talk to my team.  If they let me or they don't, we'll discuss that and come to the conclusion.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT