STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 30, 2019
Cameron Scarlett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Notre Dame - 45, Stanford - 24   
 Q.  We asked Coach about the start of the game on offense for you guys and it seems like a lot was working, and then after the punt block it got a lot tougher for you guys. What changed from your point of view?  
CAMERON SCARLETT: We kind of got a little bit stagnant there throughout the middle of the game. We had a couple tough first and second downs that put us behind the sticks, and then put us into some long third and longs and had some unfortunate calls. But obviously can't complain about those. But, yeah, we kind of just got stagnant, kind of shot ourselves in the foot getting third and long, but we were all right and finished strong.   
 Q.  The last walk, all those sorts of things, final game, take us through the day from your perspective.  
CAMERON SCARLETT: It's been a great day. It's been one that I've been thinking about for a long time. I was thinking, like, when is the last time I'm going to get the opportunity to play with my brothers and in this stadium and it's such a special place and such a special day. To have my family out here to watch it, it's been emotional and I just couldn't be more thankful to finish five years healthy and finish strong.   
 Q.  If there was one thing that you want to pass on to the guys who are staying, what would that message be or something that they could take from you that you thought you gave here?  
CAMERON SCARLETT: Yeah, something I felt like I brought was every day I was bringing I my hard hat. Every game I was bringing my hard hat. Didn't matter what linemen were playing, weren't playing, I came in with the mindset I was going to give it my all every game. And that's something that was instilled in me from players before. Stanford football's really just a bunch of grimy guys who like to get after it and play good football. So if that's something I could pass down, it would be that.   
 Q.  What are your takeaways from this season as a whole, do you think?  
CAMERON SCARLETT: We're a real special group when we're clicking and when we're not, we're susceptible to losing to anybody. A lot of ups and downs. We showed some positives in the run game and in the pass game, as a complete offense, but just weren't able to show it consistently enough. So it's tough to go out with a losing season, but I'm still thankful for such a great opportunity and such a great five years.   
 Q.  When you tune in next season as an alumn watching these guys, what are the reasons you can think of right now that you're going to like what you're seeing on the field next season?  
CAMERON SCARLETT: Oh, yeah, I was just talking to Drew about it out there. Like, next year the team's going to be so deep. We weren't really able to showcase everything that we had being that we had so many injuries and it's nothing that we can complain about. But we were really a dangerous team coming into that first game and it wasn't in God's plan for us all to stay healthy. But next year I can tell that they're going to be a dominant unit up front, the offensive line, once everybody gets back healthy. And the run game's going to be nasty with those two young running backs growing and turning into something special. And then with the pass game, Davis Mills is obviously a special talent and I think he's going to show it off next year.   
 Q.  Not sure if it was your final, final carry, but could you take us through the touchdown?  
CAMERON SCARLETT: I think it was. I think I ended it like that. Yeah, it was scripted to be a pass, pass play, and since we've showed those jumps on the goal lines so times, they had two safeties outside of the box, so we killed it to the run. I saw the opening backside, and I knew my carries were coming down to a close, so I wanted to make sure I finished in the end zone one more time. Me and Symmie had a bet going all season who was going to score the most touchdowns and we were tied at six, so then I had to one up.   
 Q.  That was the winner?  
CAMERON SCARLETT: That was the one winner right there. Put it away with seven right there. So it was good to end that way.   
 Q.  You also close your career with 8th most rushing touchdowns in Stanford history. What is your legacy in the program?  
CAMERON SCARLETT: Yeah, my legacy is hopefully still to come. I hope I haven't even showed really my best yet. The season definitely was a great one but felt like I was limited in a couple ways and I hope to keep continuing to show my skill set and build my legacy more so. But hopefully just moving on, everybody remembers me as a good guy and a good teammate, somebody who cares for his teammates and would do anything for them, really put the team first and work hard.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT