STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 5, 2019
Cameron Scarlett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Washington - 13, Stanford - 23   
 Q.  How important was it to make that play?  
CAMERON SCARLETT: Yeah, I mean, being a running back is much more than just running the ball and we know that here. One thing coach ream little preaches on and harps on all week is pass protection and that's what straits the good backs from the great backs, so that's something I've been focusing on all off-season and trying not to give up any sacks. So I lovemaking plays like that and seeing us score touchdowns, makes many feel good and gives us the points on the scoreboard, so I'll take it.   
 Q.  A lot of chaos -- the offensive line -- what's the mindset?  
CAMERON SCARLETT: I don't really think about it too much. One thing that we've always focused on here is just that next-play mentality, next-man-up mentality.   
So if somebody goes down we know that somebody else is going to come up and at least give us their best effort and best work out there. My mentality stays the same. I'm trying to carry the ball as hard as I can and run for as many yards as I can every time I step out there and make sure I'm hitting my reads and yeah, it's just next-man-up mentality here.   
 Q.  Between 90 and 100 yards in three games this season -- did you feel like it was coming?  
CAMERON SCARLETT: Yeah, I knew today was going to be the day. I've been sick and tired of rushing for 90 yards, the 92, 97; I see that. One thing I wanted to get over a hundred for sure and wanted to do whatever I could to make sure the offense could move the ball, and I felt like I did that, picking up some big first downs in crucial situations, and I feel like that's something this offense can rely on and will continue to build on.   
 Q.  Update on Davis?  
CAMERON SCARLETT: Davis is great. Another thing, I knew he was going to come in and ball out just like he did last week. He's a very confident guy and one of the best arms I've seen, so he's in there making plays, making the right calls and ready to spin that ball out. I love to see it.   
 Q.  What was the best --  
CAMERON SCARLETT: He didn't really talk to the running backs in particular. I had a quick little word with him because I looked up to him a lot coming through my recruitment. His message to us was just there's going to be adversity. Nobody in the country thinks we're going to win this game but none of that matters and we know what it takes to win. He gave us some good juice coming in tonight.   
 Q.  The first drive --  
CAMERON SCARLETT: It felt good, that first drive sums up a lot throughout the game. If we can start moving the ball and picking up first downs and don't stay stagnant, we'll usually have a good day. My confidence was building throughout the game but I had a lot of confidence coming in that we were going to be able to move the ball on them.   
 Q.  How satisfying is it to do this, all week being as confident with everything that's gone on?  
CAMERON SCARLETT: Oh, it's very satisfying, but by no means are we satisfied. It felt good to get the win. We'll celebrate it for the night. We have so many guys going down and getting hurt, so just going to pray for those guys and hope that they get better. But it feels good. We need that had and we're going to build on it and start stacking wins.   
 Q.  When you're running like that, Davis goes out -- all eyes are on you. Is that the stage you want?  
CAMERON SCARLETT: I relish that. Like I said I like to think of myself as a hard-nose runner, workhorse type guy. You give me the ball I'm going to make something happen, even if it's not there, we ended up running the same play probably like ten times in a row at the end of the game.   
But I knew that I had all my brothers watching me, had all my brothers holding me accountable and I had to go get some yards and that's what I did.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT