CHAMP CAR WORLD SERIES: BELGIUM
August 24, 2007
Sebastien Bourdais
Robert Doornbos
Simon Pagenaud
Will Power
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  We have driver of the #14 car Minardi USA car.  Unfortunately, Robert, you were unable to continue from the qualifying session after a spectacular blow up there in practice.  (Laughter) 
 ROBERT DOORNBOS:  Well, I'm surprised how many people came out actually.  Thank you for coming and listening to my story, what happened.  It's very unfortunate obviously.  It's been a tough day for the team anyhow.  But, you know, highlight was that we worked on the car very hard between the sessions, and in the practice before qualifying the car was obviously very competitive. 
 Then I went out just to do the final check before qualifying and the engine blew in the pit lane.  A lot of smoke.  Obviously not the way you want to continue your championship.  And I'm sure for my competitors, Power will be smiling because it's not good.  If I do what I'm here to do and drive as fast as I can, and if the car holds in one piece, hopefully I can go for the pole position tomorrow. 
 ROBERT DOORNBOS:  Obviously it's my luck again.  It's been like the first time in ten years something like this happened.  The whole engine inside is destroyed.  Yeah, so it's not a good thing.  So hopefully we have some more luck tomorrow and all the fans come out. 

 Q.  Have you driven at Zolder before? 
 ROBERT DOORNBOS:  No.  Not really.  Just from the session here at practice.  These cars are a bit faster and a lot more fun to drive.  Yeah, I think they did an amazing job with the circuit.  It's very smooth, and that's something we have to get used to.  The circuits are very bumpy and we find new things for the puddles that seemed to work. 

 Q.  Was it a fresh engine in the car? 
 ROBERT DOORNBOS:  We were supposed to do two weekends with it. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Robert, for coming out. 
 With the third quickest time, Simon Pagenaud, driver of the #15 Aussie Vinyards car for Team Australia.  How have you adapted to the track here? 
 SIMON PAGENAUD:  Well, basically we had a good session this morning just trying to get used to the track.  I knew the track because in 2005 I ran here, so I had some knowledge of the track.  This morning was just very good to be back on this track.  Very, very nice.  I think they resurfaced the track and it's just very grippy, which is exactly what I like, so it's just very enjoyable to drive. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Second quickest today was driver of the #1 McDonald's car.  Sebastien, going into the last section it looked like you had the chance to get the pole position.  What happened there in the last part of your lap? 
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Well, actually, the last part of the last lap was pretty good.  It was the first part.  Where I had a small mistake, it's sort of a shame, but in the meantime we didn't use any Red tires.  There was a pretty good gap between the two sets of ties, the blacks and the reds. 
 You know, I think we did well today.  I didn't know the track and some of these guys did, so I think it's looking pretty good in had many ways.  As we said, we need to win every race there is left in the championship to be strong and to finish on top and that should do it.  We're going to keep working hard and hopefully it's going to pay off. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Will Power, earned a championship point as well a guaranteed front row starting spot for Sunday's race.  Will after some bad luck here in the last couple race every point matters for you.  What does it mean to get this point and hopefully another one tomorrow? 
 WILL POWER:  Yeah, it's really good to get the point, but also the best thing is just starting in the front row so you can concentrate a lot on the race tomorrow.  Yeah, I mean, the first round on these tires I didn't really get a lap at all.  Yeah, I it one lap and I felt the balance was slightly off on the reds, to be honest.  But, no, we start in the front row and I'm very glad for that.  Haven't had one of those since Long Beach. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions? 

 Q.  What are you're thoughts the Circuit at Zolder? 
 WILL POWER:  This is a really nice track.  I was pleasantly surprised.  It's not bumpy, it's got lots of grip.  In these cars I find it really fun to drive.  So, yeah, I think that full credit to the owners and staff at the track.  They have done a really good job. 

 Q.  What are your thoughts on Dan Clarke being suspended? 
 SEBASTIEN BOURDAIS:  Yeah, it's been warm a few times so I think it's something that was coming. 
 WILL POWER:  From what I've heard it was a pretty bad mistake to take out four cars on the first lap in the Europe cost a lot of people track time, so yeah.  I guess that's the penalty that fits.  (Laughter) 

 Q.  How will the racing be on Sunday? 
 SIMON PAGENAUD:  Well, I think it's obviously a pretty fast course.  There's quite a few passing opportunities one corner to another.  It's probably going to be a bit of a challenge, but it sure is nice to drive out there. 
 WILL POWER:  Yeah, I think that someone has to make a mistake.  It's just not like Elkhart Lake where there is a long straight between turn three and turn five.  And even there it's tough to get a tow.  I think Champ Car people always seem to find a way around, or someone makes a mistake.  There's always action. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT