SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2019
Braden Thornberry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good round. Nice finish. Initial thoughts on how the day went for you.  
BRADEN THORNBERRY: Yeah, actually played really solid. I think that could have gotten a couple more putts. Had a lot of 15- to 20-footers that looked pretty good and just tail off at the end.   
Had a little bit of a shaky start I think just shaking off a little nerves in first tournament in month or so. Once I knocked that off and started to play really solid, I was pleased with the day. Wish a couple more putts would've gone.   
 Q.  Was that your family out there watching you? Who was watching you?  
BRADEN THORNBERRY: Yeah, family, Coach Malloy from Ole Miss, and a couple people. I'm sure the crowd tomorrow will be even bigger playing in the afternoon.   
 Q.  Feel like you struck it okay? I think 8 was the only one on the back you really scrambled for at all.  
 A. Yeah, I kind of was struggling early on the first nine, and then got it going. Then on my second nine, the front side, I was pretty much hitting it it felt like 15, 20 feet the whole side; just wasn't able to get the putts to drop.   
 They were all good speed and five feet out they had a chance, so that's really all you can ask for.   
 Q.  What's this opportunity mean to you to play here in Mississippi in front of family and all that?  
BRADEN THORNBERRY: Yeah, getting to play in Memphis the St. Jude a couple times I kind of had a taste of what this was going to be like with all the Ole Miss support and family being able to make it down. It's just been really cool, and can't thank Mr. Jent enough for giving me the opportunity, and especially the golf course that I'm pretty familiar with, and just trying to take it all in.   
 Q.  I mean, 2-under 70 first round, what's the mindset going into tomorrow?  
BRADEN THORNBERRY: Yeah, I mean, I think if I do -- basically just clean up what I did early -- and I think that was mostly just a little nerves here and there -- but just keep playing solid. Get a few more putts to drop. That could turn into 5- or 6-under instead of just a couple.   
Birdieing the last hole always makes you feel a little bit better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT