U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2018
Braden Thornberry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So in a sense there's a sense of relief here that stroke play is over with.  
BRADEN THORNBERRY: Yeah, for sure.  I was playing really well.  I was 3-under probably through six or seven holes, maybe six holes, and was feeling really good.   
Kind of just made a dumb bogey on 15.  I was playing some solid golf.   
Then kind of got a couple weird lies on 18 and made double there, but I was still fine going into the front.   
And then just kind of hit a couple loose shots that cost me and I was kind of leaking oil a little bit, but I was able to right the ship a little bit and play some solid golf coming in.   
Kind of three-putted here.  That wasn't any good, but the last six, seven holes were pretty solid.   
 Q.  You told me you felt some pressure coming down the stretch.  Why is that?  
BRADEN THORNBERRY: That's a good question.  I don't really know.  Like you asked with the pro tournaments and stuff, with those cuts I've shot 4- or 5-under to make those on the number.  Even like the Western Am last week.  Shot 5-under there to make the cut on the number.   
So it's just a different feel I think because you know if you don't make it you don't have a chance to win this tournament and that's what you're here to do.   
I think it's just that feeling.  Luckily we should be in and ready to go tomorrow.   
 Q.  Having the high ranking and the World Amateur Golf ranking, does that put any pressure on you to play in these kind of events?  
BRADEN THORNBERRY: No, but I probably put a lot more pressure on myself than I would ever feel like from reporters or media or anything like that.   
No, I think if I came in here ranked 100 or ranked 1 I think would be the same type of feeling.   
 Q.  So when you get into match play, do you think you'll be totally calm and ready to play?  
BRADEN THORNBERRY: Yeah, for sure.  Since this is over, get into match play, go win five or six matches, whatever you got to do.  That's little plan from here.   
My golf game is good.  I was hitting a lot of good shots, making putts, and so I'm not worried about that at all.   
Just see who we get tomorrow and go after it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT