TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
September 20, 2007
David Branshaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How do you like this place, David? 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  It's nice.  It's in nice shape.  We were fortunate this morning with some nice greens being the first group up.  Unwalked on greens in the first nine holes is pretty nice. 

 Q.  How about that finish?  You get two birdies and a big par save? 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  Yeah.  Starting out I was hitting the ball pretty solid the whole front nine.  Making the turn, I hit some loose shots, and I made a bogey on the 5th hole.  So then starting on 6, hit a good shot in on 6, 7, 8, and then just kind of peeled one off the right on 9 and kind of screwed it up.  But I made a good putt there to finish.  It was nice. 

 Q.  What was the length on the par?  18 feet? 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  About 18 feet. 

 Q.  You said you wanted a confidence boost.  Does this qualify? 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  It helps a little bit.  I'd say the first -- I had a middle stretch of five holes in there I didn't hit it too good.  But for the most part, yeah.  It helps out a little bit.  Go work it out on the range and get a little better. 

 Q.  Does being home help? 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  It's nice.  It's nice being home. 

 Q.  Is there a comfort level on this course, too, having finished tied for fourth last year? 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  After today, it feels good.  I feel confident playing.  What I look at when I'm looking off the tees into the greens, it just looks comfortable. 

 Q.  Can you tell us how it feels compared to some of the other rounds you played where you know you haven't played well?  It's a philosophical question. 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  I had a lot better birdie looks today.  And the rounds I'm not shooting good, you know, I've got a lot of those 18 footers for pars and 35, 40 footers for birdies. 
 But I had some closer birdie chances today.  So that made me feel good. 

 Q.  How long were the birdies on 11, 12 and 16? 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  Not very.  Maybe 10 feet.  Yeah, 10 feet, 3 feet, 3 feet like that. 

 Q.  You got through the two par threes. 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  In the back nine, yeah.  The par 3s are playing pretty good today. 

 Q.  What about the fact you have a good score, and the score was changed a little bit to make it a little more difficult. 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  Yeah, they backed the tees on some of these holes.  The drive I whipped over on the bunker on 9 wouldn't have been in there had we played from where we played last year.  But the holes --  you know, couple of shots.  Couple of shots later, I would say. 

 Q.  And you almost kind of have to be where you're at in a tournament like this, don't you?  With the winning score probably going to be around 16, 17. 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  With conditions the way they are now, yeah.  It will get up around 20 if they stay like this. 

 Q.  But the way you've been playing, is there any part of you that stepped up to that first tee and went, All right, I know this place? 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  Little bit.  But it was kind of cold when we were teeing off.  Didn't feel that comfortable.  It was 50-something, 55 or so when we teed off, so... 

 Q.  Did you have a shot of the day? 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  I had a good shot on the 16th hole, par 3.  I had a really good shot there. 

 Q.  (No microphone). 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  16 was an 8-iron, 11 was a 4 or 5-iron, I forget. 

 Q.  (No microphone). 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  No, No, it was 203, maybe 206 yards.  Yeah.  Yeah, because it was cold. 

 Q.  How much are you hoping this is a sign of things to come? 
 DAVID BRANSHAW:  I'm hoping.  I'll take four 6 unders.  I'm sorry, four 4 unders.  I'll take it.  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT