MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 12, 2005
Miguel Tejada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you just talk about the pitch that you hit and what you saw and then the second question, can you talk about how strange it is for you to come out of a game you're so used to playing all nine? 

MIGUEL TEJADA: Well, first of all when I go to the plate, first John Smoltz, you know it's not easy, there's not too much to think.  I just say in my mind, starting in the All-Star Game, I'm going to enjoy it and I think that's why I hit the ball out of the park. 

Q.  When you saw your lineup and did you almost, even though you were going to face All-Star pitching, did you almost expect to be able to score some runs with all of those great hitters? 

MIGUEL TEJADA:  Yeah, you know, when I see the lineup, you know, I just feel real happy hitting fifth, I don't know how hitting behind me and in front of Vladimir Guerrero, you expect to score some runs and I'm so happy to be in the middle of those guys.  You know, that's why we all scored a lot of runs. 

Q.  You did a good deed by having Ortiz sub for you in the Home Run Derby and you could not defend your Home Run Derby and good things came around and you won the MVP.  What do you think about the whole experience of the two days? 

MIGUEL TEJADA:  Well, you know, I'm never going to forget these two days, because you know, yesterday, even in the home run contest, I'm going to enjoy every moment.  David put a great show, all of the guys did a great show.  I get a chance to play with my kids and this time I don't have to hit it.  Today I had a chance to have a great game and get the MVP.  You know, I think that David Ortiz, being in the home run in the Dominican the last three years, that's why I think he's the perfect guy to represent our country.  

Q.  Last year you won the Home Run Derby, this year you won the MVP, are you getting used to all of this success?

MIGUEL TEJADA:  I've got to take what God gives me.  I'm real happy with what I've got right now.  I'm going to keep working hard and let's see if I keep up my game, the way that I play.  I'm really happy and I want to say thank you God for the opportunity.  What can I do?  I've got to keep playing hard and if the guys continue to give me all that I've been getting, I've got to take it. 

Q.  Can you talk about the double play in the first inning and how that got Buehrle out of a jam and helped set a tone for you guys defensively?

MIGUEL TEJADA:  Well, you know, in the first inning, I was just ready from the first pitch on, when you play behind Buehrle, you've got to be ready because he just gets in the game quick.  After I get the double play, you know, I was so happy and I was so relaxed just because I already do something for my team. 

Q.  Who are those guys that are up there with you, your kids? 

MIGUEL TEJADA:  This is my son, this is my daughter and my wife and I've got all of my brothers and sisters and my father is over there.  Everybody's here.  I think today I've got to do something for all of my family, I think that's why I just had a great game.  When I take the field, I just think about my family and I think about all of the people in Baltimore.  I just make everybody around me proud of me.

Q.  What's their names?

MIGUEL TEJADA:  That's Miguel Tejada, Jr., Alexa and my wife Alejandra. 

Q.  How many people came with you? 

MIGUEL TEJADA:  About 22.

Q.  Does it make a difference, with the Orioles obviously in a post-season chase and you may have given them home-field advantage in the World Series does that mean anything?

MIGUEL TEJADA:  Well, it means a lot, because, you know, right now, we're doing pretty good in the race.  You never know.  You never know when you get to the World Series, you know, to get there, you've got to just take the time.  You know, now we've got a chance because even if we are not the winner, American League can have the home-field advantage.  When you have the home-field advantage, it's more better. 

Q.  (In Spanish.) 

MIGUEL TEJADA:  She just asked me if I should get MVP or not.  I'm just happy, I'm really happy that they gave all the honor and I think when they give one of these honor like today, tomorrow I will just, I just think about tomorrow.  I just want to work harder and harder every day and everything that I do, when I get something like that, I think my family is more proud of what I do and this makes me more proud and work more hard because my family is really happy. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT