BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2019
Max Richardson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Boston College - 45, North Carolina State - 24
Q. I just glanced up early, and I saw what was like five punts, two stops at the goal line and the pick in the first nine drives, and I was wondering, like, one, how much of that is just tone setting? And, two, for you guys coming out, two weeks to think about what happened two weeks ago, how much of this was a pride game for you?
MAX RICHARDSON: We definitely believe, coming off of two losses, this is a game where we have a little extra chip on our shoulder. We're a little bit pissed off. Getting goal line stops is a huge momentum changer for any team. So it was a great way to start the game.
Coach Sheridan put together a great scheme this week. When it came down to the goal line, there were guys in position to make plays. That helped our team today.
Q. Max, you mentioned that Coach Sheridan had a good scheme today. Talk about some of the things you guys did during the bye week to kind of shore up some of the issues you were having and to also talk about how you were able to turn things around and play what is arguably your best game of the season today.
MAX RICHARDSON: I think the bye week was great because we utilized the time to rest and recover, but we also went back to the basics defensively, fundamentals and stuff like that. But also the coaches had an opportunity. They had five -- or seven to ten extra days to scheme the other opponent. If they call up the right plays and we do our job at a high level with the technique they teach us, you know, it's really a beautiful thing. It's like a machine.
Football is a very simple game. Coaches tend to over complicate it, and even players do sometimes, but if you do your job to the best of your ability, Coach Sheridan's a brilliant guy who will put us in a position to make those plays.
Q. Max, I understand spring practice is a lot different, but what's it like to stop guys like A.J. and David when they're on the other side of the ball?
MAX RICHARDSON: It's the greatest and worst practices in America (Laughter). Because, obviously, A.J. and David are big guys, strong guys. They run hard. They run with their pads out. So it's great to compete against that every day because it makes me better. Also, I have no embarrassment saying that I get my bell rung a couple times too when I'm making contact with those guys, so it prepares me for a long season, and I think overall it helps me to be more durable.
Q. Do you appreciate another defense having to face them after what they did today?
MAX RICHARDSON: Absolutely. They're great backs. They run hard. I love them to death.
Q. I can look up and see the numbers, and at one point, I want to say, third quarter, early fourth quarter, it was 328 rushing yards to 2. I was wondering if you realized that at any point in the middle of the game?
MAX RICHARDSON: We went in at halftime, and part of the halftime adjustments was they had not been able to run the ball on us, so we knew we were doing well stopping the run, but during the game, you don't see the huge margins of statistics that you see after. But we felt like we did an all right job stopping the run, so yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT