NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 20, 2010
J.J. Redick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   J.J. REDICK: I've always looked at it as a game-by-game thing with the rotation. I'm not going with any expectations. 

 Q. The time you did get pretty happy with what you did, until the end? 
 J.J. REDICK: Oh, yeah. 

 Q. I don't mean to criticize you. 
 J.J. REDICK: I don't care. 

 Q. Throughout the game, how do you feel you played? 
 J.J. REDICK: Played well. Played with a lot of energy. That's something we didn't have a lot of in Game 1. So I thought that was good. 

 Q. Stan said he thinks the ball has moved better when you're on the floor with the point guard, Vince and you, the ball movement, it's been better. Is that something you want to do, get in and keep the ball moving? 
 J.J. REDICK: Yeah, I mean, I want to play with energy. Obviously I'm going to space the floor a little bit more. You know, Matt is more of a cutter. So there's a difference when I'm out there with Vince. And then there's a difference when I am the two and I'm not playing with Vince. Either way I'm just trying to make some plays and be aggressive. 

 Q. They're obviously trying to go at you in the post, Tony Allen, and post you up there. You've kind of held your own. Is that something you know they're going to challenge you defensively? 
 J.J. REDICK: Yeah. They're going to try to challenge me. That's every game. Anybody we play. That's everybody. So just deal with it. 

 Q. What's your mindset like? What's it been like the last two days? Stan said guys were really locked in today. 
 J.J. REDICK: Today was good. Today was really good, in terms of just energy and focus, and we talked about some things we need to do better. We did those things today. We had a good focus on that. 
 So, you know, I think yesterday was a tough day. I wasn't into life until about 2 P.M. took about 12 to 14 hours to get myself going. But, you know, once you get over that initial disappointment and you realize this is still a series, then you kind of look forward. You look forward to Saturday. 

 Q. I know it's two totally different things. You guys won up there twice in the regular season. You won up there last spring in Game 7 when nobody said you can do it. Does that sit in the back of your mind, that you've won there? 
 J.J. REDICK: Well, according to Stan's statistics, over the last, I don't know, five, seven years, something like that, there's been like three teams that have won a playoff series that didn't win on the road. So you're going to have to win on the road. 
 Boston, they got two on the road. So I think coming into this series, we thought we would have to get at least one. But now it looks like we definitely have to get two. 

 Q. The scores have been so close, but are they making fewer mistakes than you are? Are they slightly more composed than you guys or less emotional? What is the difference? Stan was using the words "they have a little more offensive discipline," more consistent. 
 J.J. REDICK: No, I think if you look at the two games, they were two completely different games. The things we did well in Game 2 sometimes got us into trouble. I don't know. I just think when you're a player in this environment, in this situation, sometimes you want it so bad. Not to say their guys don't want it bad, but things happen. You try to make plays that aren't there sometimes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT