NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2006
J.J. Redick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about going to Orlando. 
 J.J. REDICK:  Obviously really excited.  This is one of the teams that I circled as a destination that I would really be happy about. 
 I'm really looking forward to playing with some great young players down there. 

 Q.  It seemed as if you knew that you were going to be picked by Orlando there.  When did you know; did you suspect they were going to pick you? 
 J.J. REDICK:  I had a good idea for a few days now, nothing for sure.  And I found out that it was pretty definite on the way over here. 

 Q.  Obviously very impressive Orlando Magic team.  What are you going to bring to Orlando, and, of course, how is the back? 
 J.J. REDICK:  Well, first of all, I think I'm going to bring shooting.  I think that's one of the needs that they expressed to me. 
 And I'm also going to bring some intangibles, just my competitive spirit, my desire to win, all that good stuff. 
 And as far as the back is concerned, I've been pain-free now for two weeks.  I've gotten very good reports back from my doctors, and if you want, I can bend down and touch my toes for you guys.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  After all that's been going on the past few weeks; how much of a relief is it to still go this high? 
 J.J. REDICK:  Oh, I mean, it's a huge relief.  To be honest with you, I kind of had a revelation today before I knew for sure that I was going to Orlando that no matter where I went, you know, it's still a dream come true and not to get caught up in where I was going. 
 The past few weeks have definitely been a tough time for me.  Some of it I brought on myself, some of it was unfortunate.  I'm sure you guys can figure out which one was which.  I'm just glad to be through this process and start moving on to the next part of my career. 

 Q.  You went through a very good college career, very good school.  Did it bother you that all of the J.J. Redick stories were either about that incident or health issues, when you do all of this good work and it just seems to come down to this at this point, was it frustrating? 
 J.J. REDICK:  You know, to be honest with you, the past couple weeks haven't been frustrating because I felt like I brought that upon myself.  A lot of people have written about the DWI and I'm sure fans for a while will make references to that, so I brought that upon myself. 
 But I felt like even before those incidents happened and my back was hurt, I was getting a lot of negative publicity and most people felt like I wasn't going to be a good pro.  I'm going to use that just like I used all of the criticism I received in my life, just as fuel to add to the fire. 

 Q.  Now that Grant Hill has been playing for the Orlando Magic the past few years, has he told you anything about playing in the NBA? 
 J.J. REDICK:  Me and Grant have had several conversations, but to be honest with you, I haven't talked to him since April when I was choosing an agent and I was considering his agent.  I definitely think that's going to be a guy that I lean on early in my career.  That's a great resource that we already have, especially since we already have a relationship. 

 Q.  It's a young team you're going to Jameer Nelson, Darko; talk about this youth movement, it certainly sounds like a great future? 
 J.J. REDICK:  Yeah, that's one of the reasons I wanted to go to Orlando was because they had Jameer Nelson and Dwight Howard and Darko.  I feel like as those guys improve and become bonafide superstars in this league, that will only help my game and my improvement. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT