ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 7, 2020
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. ZVEREV/R. Nadal
 6-4, 7-5
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. I realize it's difficult to come and speak with us so quickly after the match, but is there anything that you can point to that made the difference out there this afternoon?  Were you surprised with the level of play that Sascha showed against you?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, I think he's playing great.  He won two straight tournaments and played well here again.  He's in the final serving huge.
 And I did things well.  I think I returned better than the other days, but was impossible at the beginning.  I think I understood that I had to go back too late, because I was not able to, he was serving bombs and hitting the right spots all the time.
 So I decided to go, like, eight meters behind the baseline later on in the match and I think worked better for me.
 But, yeah, you know, he's playing well.  He's hitting well.  He's hitting good forehands that normally is the way he missed a little bit more.  And with the backhand always he's always great, no?
 I think I hit well with my forehand, was quite well this afternoon.  I missed more with the backhand, something that I need to improve.  I need to find a better feeling with the backhand on this surface, because when I hit the ball sometimes I feel that I can miss it.  And that's, to compete at this highest level, sometimes is a little bit tougher.
 By the way, I have been competitive, I have been there until the end against a player who is playing great in a surface that he's winning a lot.  So have been a positive tournament for me.  Of course not happy about the loss, but that's part of the game.  I played against a great player, and I accept the defeat he was played.  He played a little bit better than me.
 Q. Regarding the ATP Finals, how will you go about this tournament now?  Will you travel home at first or go to London directly?  How upbeat are you about your level of play in general?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   No, I said before have been not a bad tournament.  I spent hours on court.  Of course I wanted to win the tournament, but it's always difficult.
 But I had the right attitude during the whole event, I think, fighting in every match.  That give me the chance to play four matches that I think that will be helpful for London.  I need to adjust a couple of things, but I am doing well on all the important things, no?
 So let's see.  I have one week and a little bit more to keep working, and I hope be ready for it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT