U.S. OPEN
August 24, 2018
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Rafa.   
 Q.  Talk about the level of confidence you have.  
RAFAEL NADAL: Have been I think a very positive season.  In general terms, is true that of the first three months of the season have been very, very tough for me in terms of the injury that I had in Australia.  Yeah, but after that I think I lost two matches and I had to retire from Australia, no?  Been a great season.   
During Wimbledon, fantastic clay court season, then a very positive start in Toronto of the hard court season playing good event there.  That's important for the feelings, for the confidence.  That's give me a chance to rest the week after in Cincinnati, and I am here just trying to improve every day the level of practices I think I'm doing.  Just remain, yeah, two more days of practice before Monday I start.  I hope to be ready for it.   
 Q.  The week of Cincinnati was all rest, no preparation?  
RAFAEL NADAL: No, was preparation.  I was resting of competing, not resting of working.   
 Q.  How was the preparation?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Preparation was very well, I think.  Is about every day.  The last couple of days is the moment to understand that you really realize if you are better, you are worse.  When you start to put the full mind on what you're doing...   
I think today was a great practice.  Tomorrow and day after tomorrow another chance to practice well.  Then a start with David on Monday.  Just trying to go practice by practice, trying to do the right things to be ready.   
 Q.  What does last year's US Open title mean to you?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Have been a very important title.  Last year have been a very special year after a couple of years.  2015 was not a positive year in terms of level of tennis.  2016 I was playing good tennis, but I got injured.  Have the chance to get back in 2017.  Of course, win on clay, but then win on hard again is something that, yeah, means a lot to me, especially here in New York.   
Being honest, I always had a great connection with the crowd here.  The crowd bring me to another level of energy.  That's something that I enjoy.   
 Q.  Do you try to remember that as you come back or wipe it out of your mind because it's a new year?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I really don't like much to compare, no?  When you played well in a couple of places, is good to be back.  For example, when I am back in Monte-Carlo or Roland Garros, I know that I play well a lot of times there, so is a little bit more confident overall to know that you can do it again.   
So here is a little bit the same, no?  I played here very well for sort of lot of times.  When you are back here, you know that you are familiar with the court, you are familiar with the event.  You know the conditions.  Normally, you are a little bit more confident that you can play well.   
Then win or lose, it's just part of the business.  It's about being competitive.   
 Q.  When you haven't had success, is that in your mind at all, that you're not playing your best?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Sorry?   
 Q.  When you get to a Grand Slam tournament, do you think you're going to find your best game, even when you haven't played well in the weeks leading into it?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Of course, is important what happened before the Grand Slam.  If you are playing well before, is easier to play well in the Grand Slam, no?  No doubt of that.   
At the same time is true that especially a few players are able to increase the level of concentration, the level of tennis, level of intensity in some places.  If you have to do it, this is one of the place.   
 Q.  Your countryman Tommy Robredo, is in his final round of qualifying.  Are you impressed that he's still trying so hard?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I'm not impressed, no.  He likes the sport.  Is all about happiness.  When you are happy doing what you're doing, why you have to stop.   
He had injuries.  He went through some tough moments in terms of physical issues.  Things are tough.  If he's happy doing what he's doing, why he is not able to keep trying?  He's doing well.  I am very happy for him, to see that he's playing better and better again.   
I always want the best for the persons who really follow the things that really make them happy, really do it with the right attitude, with the right passion.  I think Tommy is doing that way.   
I wish him all the best.   
 Q.  Will you name players you wish to play in the Roland Garros final.  
RAFAEL NADAL: Of course, Manolo would be one of them.  Another one maybe -- I don't know.  Orantes maybe.  That's a long time ago.  International, maybe Borg, Lendl.  I don't know.  Maybe Rod Laver.   
 Q.  Back to the Open last year, talk about what it was like to play against Kevin Anderson.  
RAFAEL NADAL: He's a player that I know him very well because we played together when we were under 12, under-14.  We are the same age, so we know each other very well.   
Kevin is a great player.  He's a player that he's always improving, always improving.  He plays so aggressive.  He has a huge serve.  Yeah, he's one of these players that are dangerous for everybody.  He's one of the best players of the world today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT