ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 5, 2020
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  R. NADAL/J. Thompson
 6-1, 7-6
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. I wondered if you could discuss the match tonight with Jordan.  Were you satisfied with your level of performance, and is there anything that you would have liked to have improved upon?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, I think I played a good first set.  A lot of good shots, good winners, serving well.
 And then in the second, was not able to find a way to have the break.  He started to serve very well, I think, and I was missing a couple of -- I missed a couple of returns that I could do it better, I should do it better.
 But I think he increases a lot the level in the second set.  So he played well, so I give credit to him.  He started to change directions very well with the serve, hitting the right spots.  Then he's super fast from the baseline, no, returning some very difficult balls.
 Positive thing, I think I only faced one breakpoint with my serve during the whole match but was a set point, and a tough one.  So that's a positive thing, no, with my serve.  And in return I think I did it very well in the first and I could do it better in the second.
 I found a way.  In the tiebreak I saved a couple of breakpoints.  Second point of the tiebreak had huge importance, too.
 So, yeah, quarterfinals, that's the most important thing for me.  I'm happy.
 Q. You play Pablo Carreno next.  I wonder, how do you describe his evolution and the way he's playing right now?  He had a very strong, a lot of good results since the restart, US Open and Roland Garros.  What do you think he's improved in the most?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   He's always improving.  He did semifinals I think in the US Open in 2017 already, and this year playing the semifinals again in New York and quarterfinals in Roland Garros.  So, yeah, he's playing great.
 Is normal that in quarterfinals I face a very tough opponent like him.  We are in a Masters 1000, the best players are here.  So I can't expect another thing, no?  So I need to be ready to play my best against an opponent that I know he's playing well and with confidence.  I hope to be ready to play my game and really read well, because that's what I'm gonna need.
 Q. Is there any area of your game you want to improve going into the quarterfinal that you think you're going to have to improve, as well?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   Everything.  I want to improve everything always (smiling).
 But that's the work of every day, no?  Try to fix the things that I think I can do it better, and hold the things that I am doing well, no?
 So I think I am not doing a lot of things bad.  I just didn't play in indoors for a year almost, and is part of the process of course.  I need to keep going.  I think these kind of matches helps.  Yesterday's match, today's, tomorrow another opportunity.
 Yeah, these matches are important test for me to keep improving, so I really believe and hope that it's gonna help me to improve.
 I think I'm playing well.  Just I think I need to win more matches on this surface.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT