ROLAND GARROS
October 2, 2020
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/S. Travaglia
6-1, 6-4, 6-0
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. The player you're playing in the next round is very excited to face you.  He was even talking about how he named a cat after you.  You're not going to treat him any differently, but what does it mean to you that you've made such an impact on the next generation?
RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, that means that I have been on the TV for such a long time, that's the main thing.  The same like when I was a kid, I was watching Sampras, Agassi, Carlos Moya, et cetera, et cetera, no?
Another negative thing that mean is that I am 34 (laughter).  That's another point that is not beautiful.  But, yeah, happy to hear that.  I know he's playing great.  He's a very young kid with a lot of power.  I think he has an amazing future - hopefully not yet.
Q. Here at Roland Garros this year Feliciano Lopez made his 74th consecutive Grand Slam appearance.  How incredible is it to have made every Grand Slam for 18 1/2 years now?
RAFAEL NADAL:   That's something amazing, no?  Is a combination of a lot of things.  Yeah, it's really unbelievable that he never got injured.  That's little bit of lucky.
But, yeah, it shows that he has passion for the sport because he was able to maintain a good level of tennis for such a very, very long time, and without injuries.  Is an important one.
Q. Roland Garros is very different this year both off the court and on the court.  You keep winning.  I would like to know for this year at Roland Garros which challenges are different for you and which challenges are still the same?
RAFAEL NADAL:   All the challenge is always the same.  Come here with the same goal, same passion and motivation.  Another thing is, of course, the conditions that we are facing are completely different than in a normal Roland Garros.  Yeah, that's true.  Of course, the ideal situation is another one.
But here we are.  Just in some way we have to try our best in every single moment, no?  For ourselves, first thing, because we are lucky enough that we can play tennis under this very tough worldwide circumstances.  In another way because there is a lot of people suffering in the world.  At least when we are fighting and we are creating a good show for the people who are at home is a good entertainment, no?
That's it.  I am here to try my best.  Today was a very positive match for me and I hope to be able to keep going.
Q. What are your thoughts on playing Sebastian Korda?  He was saying he idolized you so much that he even named his cat Rafa.
RAFAEL NADAL:   Happy to hear that.  But, yes, at the same time is the fourth round of a Grand Slam.  He's playing great, he's young, he has energy.  He has a lot of ingredients to become a big star of this sport, no?
Let's see.  Going to be a tough one.  I need to be ready for a good battle.  I hope to be.  I think I am playing better every single day.  Hopefully I am able to keep going.
Q. How much do you know about his dad Petr who won a Grand Slam in 1988?  Do you follow the history of tennis and what Petr did?
RAFAEL NADAL:   Yeah, I saw him play on the TV a lot of times.  Even if I was young, I was playing tennis since I am three years old.  I was following tennis on TV, of course.
Of course, I know his father.  I know how good he was.
Q. Five games today, five games the other day.  Whoever you play, you beat them easily.  Is it a little bit like Borg?  Borg was dominating all his opponents.  We say the tennis is much more deep, much more depth in the men's tennis.  How can you explain this?
RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, that's the real thing, no?  Different eras.  I understand the comparation, but I don't feel like this.  I just go on court every single day knowing I can lose.  If I am playing well, I can win.
Today I played against an opponent that he was playing I think very well, playing a very good tournament in Rome, and already here winning two good matches against Pablo Andujar and against Nishikori.  I went on court with the highest respect, just with the goal to play my best.
I think, as I say before, I maked a step forward in a lot of ways.  I think he played a great second set, was close.  I was able to find a way, yeah.
Happy for that.  I don't feel that I am that dominant.  The result says, but the game is another story.  Every single match is a challenge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT