NITTO ATP FINALS
November 13, 2017
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. GOFFIN/R. Nadal
7-6, 6-7, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You were clearly playing through a lot of pain.  The main question is, will you be able to play on for this week or not?
RAFAEL NADAL: No, I am off.  My season is finished.  Yeah, I had the commitment with the event, with the city, with myself.  I tried hard.  I did the thing that I had to do to try to be ready to play.
But I am really not ready to play, no?  I really fighted a lot during the match, but knowing that probably was a big chance to be the last match of the season.  That what's going to be.
Well, is not a decision at all.  Is about the pain.  I cannot hold with enough power to keep playing.  I tried, but seriously was miracle to be very close in the score during the match.
It really don't make sense.
Q. You've had a lot of knee trouble in the past.  Is this a problem you are confident you will recover from, that you'll be okay with some rest?
RAFAEL NADAL: I know what I have to do.  I know all the things that happened in the past when I had these things, and I know the treatment that I had to do.  I know the periods of time that I need to work.  Then if the treatment works or not, we will see.
The good thing is nothing new.  Everybody of my team, we have the right experience on this thing.  We hope to manage it well, to have the right rest, the right work, and try to be ready for the beginning of the next season.
Q. Do you think maybe you made things worse by playing here?  Are you not worried at all about having aggravated the injury?
RAFAEL NADAL: My commitment was try, no?  Was the last event of the season.  Another thing will be if that was in the middle of the season or was another kind of event.
But, yeah, is an (indiscernible) event I missed too many times in my career.  But that's how it work, my career, at the same time.  I can't complain.  I feel very lucky about all the things that are happening to me.
But in the other hand, is true that I am probably the top player that had more injuries and more troubles in the careers of everyone, no?  Is always about this challenge.  But I am used to this and I know what I have to do.  I think I am ready to do it.
Q. Can you describe how you feel about having to quit now.
RAFAEL NADAL: I know during the match.  Is not a decision I take five minutes ago.  Is a decision that I take during the match.  Even winning, even losing, I going to pull out because I was not enjoying on court at all.  Was not fun to play like this.  I really believed that I don't deserve after this great season to spend two more days on court with this terrible feelings, no?  That's all.
I am, of course, disappointed.  But I am not going to cry.  I had a great season.  I really appreciate all the things that happened to me during the whole season.  Thanks life for this unforgettable one.
I going to work hard to try to give me more chances the next season to keep being at the top and fighting for the most important things.
Thank you, and Merry Christmas, everyone (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT