SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 14, 2017
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/M. Cilic
7-5, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How satisfying is it to get through a match like that?  Can you take us through that?
RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, good, no?  Very happy.  Of course I played I think a very high level of tennis.  Was a great match again.  I don't know what he said, if he already talked or what he gonna say later, I don't know, but in my opinion, he played well, too.  Was a great, good quality of tennis this afternoon.
I am very satisfied with everything, no?  Is true that I had that mistakes with my serve in the second.  That's the only thing.  For the rest, I am happy.
Q. So compared with the former two matches against Jared and Fabio, yesterday's Grigor and today's Marin seemed to be tough opponents for you.  How do you compare the transitions between matches?
RAFAEL NADAL: I think they are tough opponents for everybody.  Not for me, no?  They are very good players so is tough.  If I was not playing at the level I am playing, probably I will not win against the level that they played.  So very happy for that.
Having two fantastic weeks, winning in Beijing and now being in the final here in Shanghai again, winning matches against very tough opponents, that's great news, no?  Very happy for everything.  Remain one more match, and I hope to be ready for it.
Q. The ITF has recently introduced some changes to the Davis Cup, not in the World Group but in the zonal competition.  You have always been a proponent of changes to the Davis Cup format, because you think the current format is not good for you players.  Have you had any chance of looking what the proposal is and what do you think?
RAFAEL NADAL: No, sorry.  I don't know exactly what's -- I heard a little bit, but I don't know the information to talk about it, no?
All the changes, if the changes are in the right direction, gonna help.  Of course better later than never, no?  Yeah, is true.  I was speaking about that already 10 years ago, because was very easy to predict what happened the last couple of years with the Davis Cup.  So I am happy they are able to find a solution to help the players to play more often.
Q. What about the opponents you could face in the final?
RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, we'll see now.  We will see what's going on now in that semifinals.  Any opponent in the final will be very, very tough.
They are playing well, playing on a surface that probably both of them likes the kind of surface here.  So gonna be a tough one, no?
I need to play at my highest level.  I hope to be ready to play that high level.  I am playing well for already a while, so that helps.  Hope to be ready for the match tomorrow.
Q. You hit your knee pretty hard with the racquet at some point through the match.  Any pain or anything like that?
RAFAEL NADAL: Is true.  Sometimes I get frustrated too.  That's all, no?
But that's it.  Nothing to talk about that, no.
Q. Matches like today, what do they do for your confidence?  Is it better to have a tough match in a tournament or is it better to just go through easily?
RAFAEL NADAL: The better thing is go through.  The way doesn't matter (smiling).  Important thing is play well, and you don't gonna go very far winning very easy.  That's not happens.
We are at the highest level of our sport, so nobody wins easy.  And if you want to compete in the most important events of the year and try to go for the victories, for sure you gonna have tough matches, and today was one of them.
Q. After such a successful season and after you get your win in Beijing, someone say that unbeatable Rafa is coming back.  How do you think of it?
RAFAEL NADAL: Not at all.  Just playing well and having a good year and winning a lot of matches during the whole year.
So that mean that I have been playing very solid and at very good level during almost every tournament that I have been competing.
So I enjoy that situation.  And now is the last part of the season, remain just a few tournaments, and enjoying that end of the year that have been very emotional for me.
Q. You have met Roger for 37 times.  You are very familiar with him.  Will you try to change something or make something different in the next time?
RAFAEL NADAL: I have my game.  I probably don't gonna go serve and volley (smiling).
I gonna do my thing.  I know what I have to do.  I know is very difficult, and especially in this kind of surface.  But the most important thing for me is play at my highest level.  If that happens, I hope to have my chances.  If that don't happen, the chances will be much less.  But I am playing well, and I am focused on try to make that happen.
Q. What's your plan of next year?
RAFAEL NADAL: My plan?
Q. Yes, for tennis.
RAFAEL NADAL: My tennis plan.  Is difficult to think, no?  But I gonna start in Brisbane and gonna play in Australia and then we'll see.
My only plan is try to keep playing tennis, be healthy, and keep competing at the highest level possible.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT