ROLAND GARROS
October 4, 2020
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  R. NADAL/S. Korda
 6-1, 6-1, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. I have a question for you.  For you as a seeded player you're expected to be in the second week of a Grand Slam.  Coming into the second week is there less pressure?  Do you feel less pressure, a little bit less pressure because you're a seeded player and you're into week two?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   I don't know (laughing).  Hello, by the way.
 No, I will not say yes because at the end of the day I am coming here with a clear goal.  My goal is just to be every day at my hundred percent and give me a chance to produce the best result possible.
 So I am in quarterfinals, very happy for that.  No, I cannot say that the quarterfinals I feel less pressure now because I am in quarterfinals.  I feel probably exactly the same.
 No, I'm just focused on what I am doing and trying to play better every single day, and that's it.  I will not say it that way.
 Q. Could you just talk about the first game, because it was very long and he did quite well, Sebastian, to match with you, it was a very close game.  Did you feel like he was trying to impress you because you are his hero?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   No, I think he started the match playing well.  Of course it was tough for him because after he played I think two very good games, he was 2-0 in the score.
 So, yeah, for me it was important at the beginning too because when you play against a player with big talent, young players, when they start well and they are in front of the score, you encourage them.  So for me it was important the beginning and I fighted for that couple of games in the beginning, no?
 Of course later I continued well.  Just the beginning of the third was a little bit of trouble, but I was able to find to save that game with 2-0, serving against the wind.  After that everything went the right way, no?
 He has a lot of positive things.  Of course he's young and he made mistakes.  Normal when you are young you make more mistakes in some moments that you should not be doing that mistakes if you want to win a fourth-round match here to be in the quarterfinals.
 But he has a lot of difficult things and he's doing it very natural.  So I really predict that he going to have a very good future.
 Q. I was going to ask you what your thoughts were of playing Sebastian and the background that he's got.  What impressed you the most with the way he played?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, he's able to take the ball early, especially with an amazing backhand.  But I think the forehand is good too, no?  Just he needs to adjust a little bit the mistakes sometimes with the forehand.
 But he's able to take the ball early, he take the right position on court.  From inside the court he's able to dominate the point, no?
 So, yeah, I really believe that he's quite tall so he can keep improving a little bit the serve, that I'm sure he will.
 Yeah, I think the most difficult things he had and now he's just a normal evolution that you need to go through, and I think he will go through that process quick.
 Q. So far you have not really been tested in this tournament.  What things do you need to improve and how satisfied are you with your level that you showed in the first week of Roland Garros?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, I'm in quarterfinals without losing a set and having very positive scores.  So I can't complain at all.  So happy for that.
 What I have to improve, I don't know.  I am doing a lot of things well, I think.  Then let's see if next opponent will be tough, even if it's Zverev or Sinner, it will be a tough battle.  So we'll see what's going on, no?
 But I am quite happy about the way that I am playing and the practices I am feeling every time a little bit better and better.  Today the conditions out there have been so difficult to play a fantastic match, have been impossible because the wind was very high.  But in general terms I am, yeah, very happy.
 Q. Can you sympathize with us a little because you keep winning so it's often tough for us to ask you new questions.  But I know you say you will always give us your best answers.  So at the very start of the match you lost the ball briefly for a second from Sebastian's return, you spun around like a ballroom dancer, you found it again, and made a great return.  So my questions are:  Have you ever lost something that is important to you and did you find it?  And do you often move like a dancer on the court, do you like dancing off the court?  If so, what is your favorite dance?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, yeah, with some tequilas I am dancing, yes.  Without tequilas is more difficult (laughing).
 But, yeah, with these conditions out there, with that wind, it's unpredictable what the ball can do.  So we need to be ready and just you need to be quick enough mentally and physically to have the right answer when the ball is moving every single way, no?
 So just to be focused and to understand that a day like today you're going to have mistakes.
 Q. And have you ever lost anything that you have then found?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   Sorry?
 Q. Have you ever lost anything that you have found?  It might even be a phone.
 RAFAEL NADAL:   I lost a lot of things; my phones, wallets, yeah.
 Q. Any words about possible opponents, please?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   Yeah, both players are young and very high-quality players.  Of course if it's Zverev, he have been in that position in the past, he's coming with confidence playing that final in the US Open.  So I played against him couple of times.  Going to be a tough match.  Of course it's a big challenge.
 And if it's Jannik, he's young, he's improving every single week.  So he's playing better and better and better.  It will be a big challenge.  It will be the first time playing against him on the tour.  I practice with him a couple of times, he has an amazing potential, he move the hand very quick and he's able to produce amazing shots.
 So, yeah, I need to play my best against any opponent.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT