ROLAND GARROS
September 28, 2020
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  R. NADAL/E. Gerasimov
 6-4, 6-4, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. It's certainly a different Roland Garros, as you mentioned on court with Marion.  Do you feel in a way that this tournament is important for the people around the world and even for yourself because the players have a chance to fight against the virus and to give the world something to be inspired by?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   I will not say it's important, because in the world today there is things much more important than a tennis tournament, no?  Honestly that's my personal feeling.
 That's our job, and the only thing we can say is thanks to the ATP Tour, to Roland Garros, to the US Open, to everyone who make big efforts to come back to the tennis tour.
 Because situation worldwide is unpredictable, so difficult.  Economically the tournaments are suffering a lot, so it's bit risky to organize an event during these difficult moments.
 So the only thing that I can guarantee is I gonna be here, try my best every single day fighting, and trying to give to the people my best every single day, because in some way sport helps the people, no?
 Q. I wanted to ask whether having had a match now today makes you feel a little bit more comfortable or a little bit differently about this tournament than the way you were speaking before play began and all the differences and challenges that you have to deal with this time in Paris.
 RAFAEL NADAL:   No, I was not complaining.  I was just saying the real situation.  No, my personal opinion didn't change, no?  The conditions are the same today than five days ago or four days ago.
 Is a different Roland Garros.  Of course we play in the same place.  But the conditions are completely different than any other Roland Garros that we played.
 But the only thing that, as I say the first day too, the only thing I can do is just stay positive, do my job, try my best every single day.  That's what I did since I arrived here.  Practiced with the right attitude, being positive, and that's what I did today in the match.
 There is things I can improve, yes, but it's a positive start and tomorrow I have another day to practice, and after tomorrow again on court.
 So happy for that.  Even if the conditions of course is a real thing, the conditions are not the ideal ones, I will fight for my goals every single moment.
 Q. In Rome against Diego Schwartzman, you did not serve particularly well.  Today you served at 63% and won 82% of the points of first serve.  How satisfied are you with the shots today?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   Is a process that I have to keep working.  Six months without playing a single tennis match is not easy.  I said in Rome when I played the first two matches well, I said, Okay, don't believe things are going to be like this.  I know how difficult are the comebacks.
 I had to stop playing tennis for more than two months, so situation is difficult.  Is normal some up-and-downs.  That day I was not able to win that match, and sometimes that's the key.  These kind of days that are challenging you and these kind of days that you don't play your best, the opponent is playing well.
 I had my chance in the end of the second set but I was not able to confirm the break back I had a couple of times.  Then if I win that match, nobody can tell you that I will not be here with the title of Rome.
 Sport is very changing, change very quick, you know, the dynamics change quick.  That day Diego was better than me.  I was not enough solid, and the serve was not good at all.
 I am trying to serve with high percentage.  That's the first step that I have to do.  When I know that I can have a big percentage of first serves, then is the moment to increase the speed and increase the aggressiveness on the serve, no?
 Step by step.  Today was the first step.  Tomorrow, another day for practice.  That's the only thing that I try to look at this tournament, no?
 Try to be happy about every single improve and try to give me a chance to be better every day.
 Q. Just your thoughts on what facet of your game you thought was the most impressive for you today.
 RAFAEL NADAL:   The best thing that I did?
 Q. Yes.
 RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, I don't know, I played quite a solid match when I was serving, no?  I was playing some good points.  I did some good forehands, winners down the line, that's a key shot for me.
 And then I had to play a little bit longer.  I played sometimes too short.  But in general terms, that's a normal first match of Roland Garros, no?  Coming with the situation that I am coming.
 No, I am happy, honestly.  I did the things that I had to do.  I didn't expect much more.  I didn't expect less, too, no?
 I am quite happy about how the match evolved.  He served well.  Was not easy to make breaks, but in some way I did things well and happy for the victory.
 Q. I want to ask you about the popularity of tennis when you and Roger are gone.  We have a new champion in Dominic Thiem at US Open.  His final was watched by one million less than any of your finals.  What do they have to do, the next generation, to match the popularity that you and Roger and Serena have as well on the women's side?
 RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, it needs time.  That's all.  Probably titles and matches like Dominic played in the final helps to become more popular, and that's it.
 You know, you don't create very popular stars in today.  You need to achieve things.  You know, I'm sure that the first finals that I played or Roger played was not the same than today if we play final, no?
 That's a process, and in some ways is normal, no?  We have been on the tour for I don't know how many years, and we have been there a lot of times.
 You know, maybe of course maybe Roger and I, we created something special about our rivalry, and that goes all over the tennis world.  I think they have to do their way, and tennis will be healthy.  We have a good future.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT