CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2016
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. DIMITROV/R. Nadal   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You didn't find a way to your best tennis today.  How do you analyze this match?  Grigor played a great match, but on your side how did you feel?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I feel bad.  I feel that I played a bad match in a lot of aspects.  Yeah, is obvious that Grigor played much better than me, so he deserved to win.  And on my side, you know, I cannot have two breaks and lose 6-2 the first set.  When this happens, something is going very bad, no?  If you have two breaks, you should have a big possibility to win the set.  Having two breaks, I lost 6-2.   
Start in the second set again with a break, and it was a disaster.  Losing five serves in a row is something that you cannot win a match like this.  That's it.  I fighted until the last ball, but going all the time against the score and all the time against the bad feelings, psychologically bad feelings, because I was losing and suffering later with my serve all the time.   
So when that happens, what you have to do is go to the next tournament because you don't deserve to win like this.   
 Q.  Did it start yesterday in the second set?  Is it different sensations?  
RAFAEL NADAL: No, it's different feelings.  Today I lost a lot of serves, but was not because of my serve.  I feel I lost a lot of serves, and from the baseline I was missing balls that I should not miss.  That's what happened.   
When you miss a couple of ones, then you start to feel a little bit the nerves.  Losing the first serve, okay.  Having the break back again, and again having the break back, and losing again the serve, psychologically that's tough.   
I was ready.  In the next game I had again a breakpoint.  But the real thing is that stays in your mind and that make you lose the confidence.   
 Q.  In the first set you lost four games straight after the fifth game.  
RAFAEL NADAL: Happened that I lost two games with the serve of Grigor.  That's normal thing.  And I keep losing my serve.  That's it.   
 Q.  It's a tough loss, but what can you take away from your Beijing trip?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I was playing good, no?  I was playing well.  I practiced well.  I don't have bad feelings on the ball.  Today during the match I started not bad.  At the end of the match I feel again better.  But in the middle of the match, for too much time I lost the confidence with my forehand and I missed more than what I need.  That's it.   
From Beijing, 90 points.  That's something that is not a big thing, but is something that maybe can help for the World Tour Finals.  But that's it.   
Is always a pleasure playing here in Beijing.  I had good tournaments here.  Always great memories.  Was another year.  I am sad that I was not keep playing again here tomorrow in the singles.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT