AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2020
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/F. Delbonis
6-3, 7-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Were you surprised to find yourself in a tiebreak for the second set? What were you thinking at that point?
RAFAEL NADAL: Well, I don't know. My numbers... I was not able to check the statistics, but when you are not able to convert no one breakpoint after I don't know how many chance, of course you are in trouble.
But happy that I was able to serve all the first serves in the tiebreak and play I think a good tiebreak, no? Yeah, I need to won that second set. In the third, again, I played much better.
Q. Nick Kyrgios mimicked your service action on court tonight. Are you comfortable with that?
RAFAEL NADAL: I really don't care. I am here to play tennis. Honestly, I don't care at all. If was funny, good. That's it.
Q. How can you do better in the situations when you have an opponent who is making it so hard for you?
RAFAEL NADAL: Well, I think I can do lot of things better. But is not because of Delbonis, no? I can do things better because of myself. I need to play better. Especially I need to convert the breakpoints.
But that's just something that happened today. We don't need to put a lot of attention on this, no? Just was something that, yeah, was hopefully history of just one day. The rest of the things, yes.
I have been practicing every day a little bit better. Of course, on the match situation, is a little bit different. I am confident that I going to play better because every day in the third set I have been able to show a good level of tennis. I need to do it before the next time.
Q. You seemed to enjoy yourself tonight. Do you prefer playing night matches or day matches? What difference does it make?
RAFAEL NADAL: Depends on the weather conditions. If is too warm during the day, maybe is better to play the night. But something that I am not able to choose.
I normally try to don't put myself in a position that I prefer one thing or another thing. I just accept how the schedule is going, try to be ready for it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT