INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 12, 2016
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. NADAL/N. Kyrgios   
6-7, 6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I think you're playing wonderful tennis.  I want to ask you if you think you are now at the best of your potential or if we can expect strongest Nadal in Paris.  
RAFAEL NADAL: I'm playing well, I feel like I am playing at the right level.  Today was important victory for me, of course, against a very difficult opponent.  And coming back after a tough first set that I had a lot of opportunities, I believe, after the first six games I think I had more chances than him, but I had couple of mistakes with that chances.  And then in the tiebreak I had one double fault and then he played great.   
But I happy the way I played, and I don't know.  I really don't think about Paris now.   
 Q.  Did you see anything from the match of Novak now against Bellucci?  6-0 in the first set.  Not for Novak but for Bellucci.  
RAFAEL NADAL: No, I didn't see not one point.  The real thing.   
 Q.  When Nick had treatment for his injury, do you think that affected his level at all?  Were you pleased with the way you stayed focused through that?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know.  You have to ask him.  I cannot tell something that I don't know.  That's the real thing (smiling).   
 Q.  Were you a bit angry with yourself when you lost the first set having the chance, especially the return on the set point?  Were you worried or not?  
RAFAEL NADAL: When you lose a set, I think everybody is worried.  If somebody comes here and says I was not worried after losing the first set probably is lying, because when you lose a set, you can lose another one.  If you lose the second or the third, you're out.   
And especially playing against a player like Nick, that he has a huge serve, very aggressive player, great shots.  So it's difficult to play under pressure after losing the first, no?   
But I think I managed it well, no?  I played very solid during the whole match, serving well, and I think playing with not many mistakes and having some winners, too.   
 Q.  How much is it important to get again the fourth position in the ranking for you in order to avoid a match like in the quarterfinals with the No. 1?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I prefer to be 6 than 7 and it's obvious I prefer be 4 than 5th, but today I'm 5th.  That's all.  I'm working well.  I think I'm in a good position on the raise now.  That's important for me.   
Let's keep going.  And I know if I am able to play the way that I am playing the last four weeks during the rest of the season, I hope and I believe that I can finish in a high position than what I am today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT