BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2016
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/G. Muller
6-2, 2-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How tough was it to play out there tonight with the wind and the cold and the tricky opponent?
RAFAEL NADAL: Yes, very tough conditions out there.  Very happy for the victory after last three matches that I lost have been in three sets or five sets.  So I needed a victory like this.  Very happy for that.
Very happy about the attitude during the whole match.  Have been very tough to play with that conditions and against a player who serve very well and who goes to the net.  It's obvious these conditions help the player who normally plays less from the baseline, no?
So just was a great victory for me.  I'm very happy for that.
Q. Looking at your numbers, you had only two double faults, 75% of first serves.  So the numbers were pretty good.  What do you think that you could have improved during the game that wasn't that good for you?
RAFAEL NADAL: I need to play better for next match.  I play against tough opponent, Verdasco.  He beat me in Australia this year.  Happy of the match tonight because with that conditions make only two double faults.  Was difficult for me to go for the shots.  Was so tough to have the feeling of the ball because the ball was moving too much around.
So tonight was a very important victory for me, a good one.  Very happy for that.
Q. Were you afraid to hit the points that were key with the wind?  Were you afraid to hit like the key points because of the windy conditions?
RAFAEL NADAL: I think I play with the right determination the important points tonight, and that's something that gave me confidence and something that I need to do.
Especially the last two games of the match were very important, obviously.  I was able to play more aggressive with more determination.  That's something that stays in my mind and is very positive.
Q. As you're a lefty playing tennis, how much more trouble does it give you to play another lefty when you look back on what happened in Australia against Verdasco, the tough match you had today, as well?
RAFAEL NADAL: No, is not a question of lefty or righty, no?  I played against tough player with tough conditions.  In Australia played against a player who played a great match like Verdasco and you can lose.  And I lost.  That's it.
Tonight was tough.  I finally won, and that's something that helped me.
Q. Obviously there was a lot of coverage in Europe about the comments made by the French sports minister, Bachelot.  What she said about you, just wanted to give you a chance to respond to that.
RAFAEL NADAL: Well, the first thing that I can say is thanks very much everybody from the world of sport, and for sure everybody who did the comments supporting me, because have been really tough for me, you know.
I have been working so much since I have five years old, all my career, to have the success that I had, and always with the right way, always practicing with passion, with intensity, with love for the game.
There is a couple of times I heard comments like this, and that's what -- this gonna be the last one, because I gonna sue her.  I am tired about these things.  I let it go a few times in the past.  Not more, you know.
I know how tough I worked to be here.  To listen, to heard those comments from a person that should be serious, because was minister of a big country and a great country like France.
So I gonna sue her, and I gonna sue everyone who gonna comment something similar in the future, because I am tired of that.
Q. But why do you think there have been so many of these comments in the past?  I'm curious.  You said it was not the first time.
RAFAEL NADAL: Was not so many.  Was a few times.  But every time was tough.  Was not so many.  Not a lot.
Q. I'm curious, why do you think it's been you who has been attacked this way so often?
RAFAEL NADAL: I don't care.  I really don't care because I know how I arrived to where I am.  The people who knows me knows very well how I arrived where I am.
So, you know what?  The past I didn't want to go for just this, to sue the people who said these things, because I didn't thought that they were serious.
But a minister of France should be serious.  This time is the time to go against her.  We gonna sue her, and since the day after day I tell you that everyone who has another comment in this way gonna happen the same, because that's too much for me.
Q. Can you talk about your next match against Fernando and why he's able to play you so tough?  You look at the scores and you guys have very close matches quite often.
RAFAEL NADAL: He's a great player with an amazing potential, no?  We know each other very well, and I know the way to have success against him is play very well.  That's what I gonna try.
Q. What impact do you think the Australian Open match will have on this next match?  Are there things from that match that you want to change?
RAFAEL NADAL: We can wait.  After tomorrow and I can tell you.  The real thing is every match is different.  Every condition is different.  I am here to try my best again.  Today was important victory for me.
He already won two matches.  He's playing well.  We will see if after tomorrow.  We can play good match and the best player to play who will play better gonna win.  That's the real thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT