WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2015
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/T. Bellucci
  6‑4, 6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   How would you describe how you're feeling on court and your level of confidence right now? 
RAFAEL NADAL:   I think I played okay, played well.   Played solid.   Very good with my backhand today. 
With my forehand, always okay.   But I think I can do it better.   I can play more winners down the line than what I did today. 
But was a positive victory, without any doubt. 

Q.   And the level of confidence you're feeling?
RAFAEL NADAL:   Second round, that's all (smiling).   I am a little bit more confident now than I was few months ago.   Just day by day for me.   Obviously victories helps. 
Last two months, let's say, I am playing much more solid almost every tournament. 

Q.   Were you checking the stats of the match?   If yes, what do you usually look at?
RAFAEL NADAL:   I was trying to understand something, but I didn't (laughter). 

Q.   You look at stats right after the match?
RAFAEL NADAL:   If they give me the statistics, I take a look.   But normally no. 

Q.   What about your serve, Rafa?   A new motion.   Were you happy with your serve today?
RAFAEL NADAL:   I have to serve better than what I did today.   I lost my serve twice? 

Q.   Twice. 
RAFAEL NADAL:   Twice during the match.   Is not a lot.   But he did some more chances. 
I need to serve a little bit better.   But I hope to make that happen. 

Q.   You play Dustin Brown next.   He said he played the match of his life against you last year.   What do you expect from him?   What is it like playing a guy like him, who is a grass court specialist?
RAFAEL NADAL:   It is difficult to think about how the match going to be.   He's not a usual player.   Anything can happen. 
He beat me last year on Halle.   It is little bit different, the surface and everything. 
Is a dangerous match.   He's a tough player.   He won today against good opponent like is Lu.   Probably he will come with good confidence.   I going to try to be ready for it.

Q.   How is the grass feeling this year?   It's hotter.   Does it feel different to last year?
RAFAEL NADAL:   No.   But is always that when the sunshine is there, the courts are a little bit more dry.   Is easier to move, no?   Let's say is less dangerous for slippery and all these kind of things that can fall down the players. 
For the injuries, is much better play with these conditions than when the weather is cloudy and there is more humidity out there.   The grass is more slippery than what is today.   Happy for that. 

Q.   Brown is said to be the fastest player between points.   You like to take your time.   Does that make a difference when you play against a player who is quick between points?
RAFAEL NADAL:   I have my time.   If he is quick, I don't need to be as quick as he is.   I have my seconds.   I do what I can do. 

Q.   In terms of the conditions outside, how did you find them, the heat?   It's going to get hotter throughout the week. 
RAFAEL NADAL:   No, for me the conditions were great.   It's difficult to think about a better day to play tennis here in Wimbledon. 

Q.   The women get a break between the second and third if they wish to.   If the temperatures were to hit 35, 36 degrees later on this week, would you like to see the men getting a heat break as well?   Is that something you would be in favor of?
RAFAEL NADAL:   Doesn't matter the heat that going to be here.   Not a big comparation with Rio de Janeiro or Australia some days.   Will be not a problem. 

Q.   You change the style of your clothes quite a few times during the year.   You've been playing for a long time.   What do you do with the old outfits when you move on to the next outfit?
RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, I save minimum one or two of every one for my memories.   The rest of the things, you know, when you finish one outfit, you cannot believe that I don't have a lot of T‑shirts.   A lot of presents, a lot of gifts for charities, different foundations, people asking for these kind of things. 
When I am at home, every week I have request for this kind of thing.   I need a lot of T‑shirts to give.

Q.   After the disappointment of Roland Garros, you've responded well by winning Stuttgart.   Did it come as a surprise the way you played?   Are you playing well now?   Did you expect that? 
RAFAEL NADAL:   In Roland Garros I was playing well.   I played against a player that was in better form than me, was better than me the day.   That's it. 
I was working a lot the first six months of the season to try to be better than what I did the first three months and a half, more or less, of the season.   It was very bad.   Is something that I made that happen. 
Playing quarterfinals in Roland Garros, losing against Novak, is true that I was there for 1 hour 30 competing well.   Then I was not competing well at the end of the match in third set.   But I was there fighting before that. 
Good tournament in Monte‑Carlo.   Good tournament in Madrid.   Bad tournament in Barcelona.   Good tournament in Rome, I lost a match that I should win.   Good tournament in Stuttgart.   Queen's, I lost one I could win, should win.   That's part of the moment.   But nothing to say about the defeat in Queen's. 
As I told you, last two months have been more regular for me, more consistent, more solid in general.   That's something that I am pleased with. 
First three months and a half of the season, I was playing bad.   During the season, I lost more matches than usual that I should win. 

Q.   How does it feel to be a No.10 seed at Wimbledon this year?   You'll get tougher games in the early stages.   You played a player in the top 50 today.   Does it feel tougher being a lower‑ranked player than when you're one of the top seeds?
RAFAEL NADAL:   I am No.10 because I deserve to be No.10.   That's what happens with one‑year ranking.   When you are injured for six months and you come back and you are not able to play great, No.10 is a great number, you know, with six months of points in the computer for me and without saying that that six months that I am playing, more than a half I was playing terrible, and the rest was not fantastic.   Was better. 
Be No.10 is a fantastic news.   That's the real thing, no?   So I am where I deserve to be.   I going to work hard to be higher. 

Q.   Do you have a favorite outfit from all the years?   Maybe the longer ones or something that you like?
RAFAEL NADAL:   I liked a few ones.   No one in particular.   When I was playing with the sleeveless and long shorts, I liked it at that moment, and I saw myself with that today and I don't like. 
With the years, things change, no? 
Roland Garros, this one was a good one.   I liked a lot.   Some blacks in night sessions of US Open. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT