AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2020
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You've been No. 1 in three decades. We all want to know what is your secret?  
RAFAEL NADAL: No secret at all (smiling).   
Well, I can't say I have been lucky with injuries, because I have not. But, well, there is no secret, no? There is only about passion, about love for the game, and about be able to stay positive in the tough moments.   
Is true that I went through some tough situations during all my career. But I was able to always, with probably the positive attitude and with the right people around, that they were a key, I was able to find a way to keep going, no?   
Yeah, something that difficult to imagine for me because for my style of game, as a lot of people said, my career should be little bit shorter. But here we are. Happy for that. Even for me is a big surprise to be where I am at my age.   
So happy for everything. Just enjoying the situation.   
 Q.  How do you feel physically after the ATP Cup, going into the Australian Open?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Hopefully good. I don't know. I am practicing I think more or less okay. Just remain for me two more days of practice. Let's try to keep going with the right intensity and with the right feelings. Hopefully I will be ready for Tuesday.   
 Q.  How do you rate Nick Kyrgios' chances? What improvements have you seen in his game over the last 12 months?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know. I am not focused on one particular player in terms of his personal improvements, no? Everybody knows who is Kyrgios. Everybody knows how big is his talent, how good he is when he wants to play at his best, when he's able to play at his best.   
His chances are always there. He is one of these players that have chances in every tournament that he plays.   
 Q.  The air quality has been a big talking point. Do you have concerns going into this tournament? How do you feel the tournament has handled the situation so far?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I don't have concerns because I am just one more player. When the issue have been there couple of days ago with the qualifier, when I heard the players having issues, asking questions, me like a player, the only thing I can do is go to the tournament director office, ask what's going on, because I have been practicing that days, too.   
I really received, for me - that's not mean for everyone should be the same - but for me I received an answer that convince me. They told me that they have the right specialists here analyzing and monitorizing every four minutes the air. There is parameters, that with some parameters we don't play, and with even the right -- is over 200, we don't play, under 200 we normally play. What I receive on the answer is on the 'Olympic rule' is until 300 you can keep competing.   
So when I receive an answer like this, when I receive an answer that the most important committee in the world of sport, like the Olympic Committee, allowed the people to compete until 300, and we are going until 200.   
I really cannot believe that the most important committee in the world wants bad health for the competitors. So that answer convince me. I am here to play. Hopefully the situation don't come back to the negative numbers.   
My opinion is the tournament, the only thing they can do is have the right people here, the right people who can analyze everything what's going on. The only thing that, in my opinion, the tournament can do is listen the specialists, listen the doctors, and then make the decision base on what the doctor says.   
If the doctor says is not problem, why we don't going to play? If the doctor says a problem, of course there is an issue to not play.   
 Q.  You talked about the physicality of the sport. There is someone in Belgium who is a big fan of you, Kim Clijsters, who at 36 years of age is going to make a comeback after seven years of not playing.  
RAFAEL NADAL: For singles?   
 Q.  Yes. Do you think it's possible for her to be competitive and be a major contender for big titles as she was before?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I can't give you a real answer. I would love. I love Kim in terms of her character. She's one of the nicest girls on tour. I always admired her a lot. I wish her all the very best.   
If it's possible or not? If she wants to be back is because she feels herself strong. Let's see. Hopefully yes.   
 Q.  Do you get to choose the color of your tennis outfit and design?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Yes, I am lucky and I can choose the colors (smiling).   
Is true sometimes, not always, I choose the color of the outfit or my outfits one year and a half in advance. When the moment to play with that outfit arrives, I already forgot what I choosed. Yeah, I am lucky that I can make my decisions there.   
 Q.  What would be your typical breakfast before a tennis match?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Typical breakfast? I don't know, some toast.   
 Q.  Is that what you would have before the finals?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Normally yes. I don't change anything even is a final or not, no? I normally eat some probably bread toast in the morning, maybe some yogurt. Before the match, I take a piece of fish and some white rice normally. That's my normal meals before the match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT