MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
March 27, 2015
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/N. Almagro
  6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How were the conditions today on court?   Were they like Indian Wells?
RAFAEL NADAL:   It was fine.   The real thing is the wind was really high.   Very difficult to find a positive feeling on court. 
But in general I think I played a solid match.   I played well.   I had a good movement.   I think I moved myself quick for moments, and when I had to put the balls in and play with no mistakes ‑ that was the idea today with that very tough conditions ‑ I did, I think.
For some moments I went for the points.   I worked well with my forehand.   I had some good winners.
Yeah.   I'm happy the way that I played.   Sure, second round against I don't know yet, but Almagro was not an easy opponent for the first round.   I am happy for that.

Q.   How does the ankle feel?
RAFAEL NADAL:   I am well, no?   I had just a little bit, how do you say, small (from translation) torn in the beginning, so it was going to be tough.
The day after I had pain, but after two days I improved 50% and stays the same.   It's not limiting my movements.

Q.   With the weather outside right now, there are like 50‑miles‑an‑hour winds.   Were you happy you were able to get the match in and get out of here before the storm?
RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, I played with a lot of wind, too.   I don't know if that much.   Probably not that much, but was enough. 
Yeah, sure is important to finish the match before the storm arrived, but I think we play with not easy conditions.   But that can happen here in Miami.   It's nothing new.

Q.   You won almost all of the big points, like the break points off of your serve and his serve.   Were you aware of that and happy with that?
RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, yes, I think I did the things well when I had to do.   I played with no mistakes in the important points.
You know, last week I had a lot of opportunities in that match in quarterfinals.   It's true that I didn't have a lot of mistakes; he played well.
But I lost the opportunities to convert, and it's important to change the dynamic of these things quick.   Doing it in this match is important for me.

Q.   The conditions here are so different than the conditions in Indian Wells.   What do you prefer?
RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, doesn't matter, no?   I think is true that play with less humidity is easier for the body. 
Is true during my career I had more success in Indian Wells than here.   I think I won three times, played another final, and couple of semifinals.
Is true that Indian Wells has been a tournament that worked better historically for my game.   I think the bounces are higher. 
But here I played four finals, another quarterfinals.   I cannot say a tournament that I don't like.   I like play here.   I like the conditions.   Is true that there is some days that can be very humid and hard for the body, but in general they are the conditions I like to play tennis.
Sea level, hot, no?   No problem to play tennis.   I like.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
RAFAEL NADAL:   The court in Miami I think is the same than since 10 years, since I came here.   I don't see difference with the court, no? 
The ball is heavier here than in Indian Wells for the humidity, so the ball flies is little bit slower through the air.   That's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT