ROLAND GARROS
May 23, 2014
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   (In French.)   How do you feel now that you're in Paris?   Mentally and physically how do you feel today here?  
    RAFAEL NADAL:   During the clay court season I get a little bit better week by week.   Last week in Rome, how you said, it was tough physically.   I played a lot of time, but in the end sometimes you need these things, no?   
    And I think I played a little bit better during the whole tournament, and especially after the first two rounds, quarterfinals, semifinals, final.   I think I got a positive step for me, and happy the way that I finished in Madrid and Rome.   
    Not that happy about what I did in Monte‑Carlo and Barcelona, but that's the sport.   
    We are here in Roland Garros, and just happy to be back in a place that give me so much.   It's a very special place for me, and just enjoying the first few days here.   Hopefully the weather will be better.  
   
 Q.   Rafa, is the clay any different this year here at Roland Garros?  
    RAFAEL NADAL:   I only practiced one day.   I only practiced yesterday, and the center court was a little bit different.   I think they make the court new, so it's like the clay get a little bit more fixed.   It was moving a little bit too much around and some small stone that makes the movement a little bit more difficult.  
    But probably they will be ready for the tournament now.   Remain a few days, and probably they can fix it.   They are specialists, no?   
   
 Q.   When you come back to Paris to this stadium, are the sensations, feelings, memories, always coming back to you, or is it now more of a routine?  
    RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, never going to be a routine to play here, no?   Is always a big emotion have the chance to play here in Roland Garros.   For me, as I said before, this place is the most important place in my career.   
    Just always very emotional when I have the chance to be back here and always going to be a great news when I will be in Paris to play Roland Garros.   Very excited.  
   
 Q.   Earlier in the clay season you said that you were maybe struggling a little bit with your confidence.   So after now all of the leadup tournaments, where do you think your confidence is as you start here?  
    RAFAEL NADAL:   I don't know.   Rome, Monte‑Carlo, Madrid, Barcelona is past now.   We are here in Roland Garros, and the only thing that matters now is have a good practice when I will be able to finish with the press.   I will practice today, will practice tomorrow, good practice on Sunday, and try to be ready for the competition, no?   
    The dynamic is positive, is true, so that's always important for the confidence.   I felt that in Rome I was able to play with not that nerves, that anxiety that I played in the first two tournaments and some moments in Madrid, too.   
    So that's always a positive thing, but now is very important tournament for me.   At the end is another tournament, no?   And just happy to be here in Roland Garros.   Happy to fight for the challenge to play well again here.   
    And I gonna try.   That's it.   That's the only thing that I can say.   I gonna try.   
   
 Q.   If you're winning against Ginepri in the first round and Dominic Thiem is doing the same against Mathieu, could be a possible matchup with Dominic Thiem, one of the rising stars on the tour.   What do you think about Dominic Thiem?  
    RAFAEL NADAL:   Well, he's doing great, no?   He's playing very high level for this year.   I didn't have the chance to see him play a lot, but I heard very positive things about him.   Everybody says that he's a future top, top player.   And I will see.   I play against Ginepri first.   
   
 Q.   There is the Championships League final tomorrow.   Where are you going to watch the game?  
    RAFAEL NADAL:   Here, Paris.   I don't know yet.   (Laughter.)  
 Q.   At your hotel?   
    RAFAEL NADAL:   I don't know yet.   I need to find the right place to see it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT