SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 22, 2014
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/L. Hewitt
  6‑1, 6‑3

Q.   You took very good care of your serve.   You've had trouble with it in the past, but seemed like tonight I think you only got deuce once and your ball had a lot of action on it   it seemed. 
RAFAEL NADAL:   I think I played a solid match with not many mistakes.   It's true that I am having the feeling of the back better for two weeks already, so I start to feel a little bit more comfortable with the serve because I am able to practice a little bit the serve and to do the normal movement again.
So that's important thing for me.   And from the baseline, I think in Indian Wells I didn't play the right way.   I think I played with too many mistakes.   Some good points; some bad points.   I tried to play with all the time the logical shot.
So playing against his backhand, and when I had the chance change to the down the line with the forehand, no?   I think the good thing is I didn't have a lot of mistakes.
I think Lleyton played much better in the second set.   He played more aggressive.   I was solid with my serve.   Some good rallies. 
Very happy the way that I played at the end of the first set.   Start to feeling the ball very well with the forehand, changing directions.
In general, I have to be very happy the way that I start, I think.

Q.   You said yesterday you were expecting long rallies.   Were you determined not to go into long rallies tonight?
RAFAEL NADAL:   No, when I had to play the long rallies, I did.   I tried to play, as I said before, the logical way.   Lleyton is a player that can be very solid.
It's true that he's a player that sometimes plays better when he plays against players who play against him flat and long and he can play with the power of the opponent.
So I tried to play a little bit long, a little bit high, open the court against his backhand, and then change against his forehand.   I think worked. 
Happy, as I said before.   I think I did what I had to do today.

Q.   The sport can be very cruel.   He's a former champion.   At some point in the first set did you feel a little bit of pity for him because how completely you were crushing him?
RAFAEL NADAL:   No. I cannot feel that way.   I think I am here to try my best.   I know how dangerous is Lleyton.   I respect him so much and admire him so much.
At the end, he's a great example for me.   He's still playing, has hard injuries during his career, and he keep playing with passion and love for the game.   That's a great example for me, and I think for the kids, too. 
So all the respect for him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT