BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 30, 2013
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/M. Granollers
  7‑5, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Tonight it was a tight match.   More difficult than your two previous meetings against Marcel.   What's the explanation?   The surface?   Because you haven't played for a while?  
RAFAEL NADAL:   Easy when your opponent serve well and you didn't play your best, so matches are very close, especially on a surface like this one.   
So I didn't play well tonight.   Something that can happen after two weeks without playing and after a long time without playing on indoors, this kind of surface.   
But he did a lot of things well.   He played short points.   He went to the net a lot of times.   I have to improve a lot for tomorrow.   That's the other thing.   I hope to be ready to do it.  
But the rhythm of my legs tonight was poor.   I'm slower than usual, and a lot of mistakes, easy mistakes, you know.   A lot of positive or favorable positions on court with my forehand in more or less important points, and I had mistakes that I should not have.   
So that's all there is.  
   
 Q.   Could you perhaps just explain why, how difficult it is to adjust again to indoors rather than outdoors?   What specific things do you have to work on indoors?  
RAFAEL NADAL:   I never like it a lot, playing in indoor, but that doesn't mean that I cannot play well.   
Positive thing of today is I won (smiling).   Seems an obvious thing, but at the end of the day, tomorrow I'm going to play again.   I have the chance to play better tomorrow, because if not I'm not going to play after tomorrow.   (Smiling).   
But, no, I really can say that I can make a jump for tomorrow, can play a step better for tomorrow.   Yep, I gonna try to have a good practice, warm up tomorrow before the match.  
You know, sometimes there are small things.   I didn't practice bad during the previous days here, so I was a little bit nervous for the match, first match on indoors after a long time; opponent that I know that gonna be not easy because I don't gonna have the chance to hit a lot of balls in a similar positions, because he will try to, you know, break the rhythm.   
I went to the match knowing that not gonna be a comfortable match, and first point I hit a great return and then first forehand that I touch in a good position I make a big mistake.  
So after that, I say, Well, probably is not the best feeling to start a match.   After that, few, you know, stupid mistakes with my forehand that gives you no positive feelings and no confidence.  
   
 Q.   In these conditions to play Janowicz tomorrow, is that the best news?  
RAFAEL NADAL:   Is not the best news to play against nobody here.   
   
 Q.   His style of play?   
RAFAEL NADAL:   All the players are very tough.   We are in Masters 1000, round of 16, at the end; best players are here.   
So is all opponents are negative news.   All opponents are good here.   No easy opponents in a surface like this one, tough tournament like this one.   
But hopefully for my opponents I don't gonna be good news, too.   (Smiling).   
   
 Q.   What do you think about his game?  
RAFAEL NADAL:   He's one of the players that should be in the top in the next years.   His serve is unbelievable.   He plays well from the baseline.   His movements are very good for big‑‑ you know, talking about his tall.   He's very tall.   
I know he has a lot of positive things that to play well and to be candidate of win the best tournaments of the world.  
So tomorrow will be a tough match.   I had a very tough one against him in Montreal this year, first set, very tough, and I gonna try to play aggressive, play with more intensive than what I did today.   
It's true that the match gonna bring me to the intensity, because if not I don't gonna have chances.   During the whole season I was ready to make it well in these kind of matches.  
Tomorrow is another opportunity to continue doing the things well.   I gonna try.   
   
 Q.   You won a lot of matches this season so you have a lot of confidence.   Do you feel even with this confidence it's still hard for you to be sure of yourself indoors, or it's getting easier because you know you have won so many matches?  
RAFAEL NADAL:   Is always the same.   If I am able to find the right feelings, seriously, I am not scared about playing indoors.   It is a surface that I can play well.  
But it's true that probably arrive to this positive feelings is a bit more difficult than in other circumstances.   That's the only thing.  
But what gives me confidence is first few days of practice here was positive ones.   I practiced well with Stanislas and then with Fernando.   I really hope to be ready to be ready to play better tomorrow, and I gonna try.   That's all.   That's all the things that I can say.  
I happy about the victory today.   At the end, as I say before, first match in indoor against not an easy opponent, so is good victory, positive one for me.  
The victory is in days that you are not playing well have much more value than the victories on days that you played well.  
Because when you are playing well, you win.   It's a normal thing.   But when you are not playing that well, all the victories are much more important, because at the end of the season that victories gives you the opportunities to change the dynamic and play better.  
Is very important win matches when you are not playing well.   I am probably one of these players that I won more matches in my career without playing well, and that's why I had the chance to be probably to where I am today.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT