COUPE ROGERS
August 9, 2013
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/M. Matosevic
  6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Are you happy with how you played today?  
RAFAEL NADAL:   I'm happy.   Win 6‑2, 6‑4 in quarterfinals of a Masters 1000 against a tough opponent, sure, is normal that I happy, no?   
   
 Q.   About the way you played, with your game?   
RAFAEL NADAL:   I think I played well.   I played a positive match.   Well, I was answer before, win 6‑2, 6‑4 against tough opponent is impossible play bad.   
I happy the way I played.   Start the hard court season like this with semifinals is a great start.   
   
 Q.   You'll be facing Djokovic tomorrow.   Do you feel that he has the edge because you are playing on hard?  
RAFAEL NADAL:   Yes, well, the conditions here are probably more favorable for him.   Yes, we are playing on hard, but especially the conditions here.   Is one of the fastest courts on hardcourt tournaments outdoors.   Maybe that makes little bit more favorite than usual him.   
But is something I accept.   Is not a problem for me.   I happy the way that I am doing the things this week.   I gonna fight for the match of tomorrow.   I am excited to play against a very tough opponent, one of the best, the best today.   I need to play my best tomorrow if I want to have any chance.   
   
 Q.   It's going to be your first match on hard court against Djokovic since the final in Australia last year.   Are you expecting a tough match like that?  
RAFAEL NADAL:   I don't know.   You never know.   You never know when you are playing a match.   Every tennis match is completely different.   The conditions here are completely different than Australian Open.   
First thing, we play best‑of‑three, not best‑of‑five.   Second thing, the court here is much faster than in Australia.   That makes the match completely different.   
But, anyway, always is special play against Novak.   He's playing well.   He did the fantastic match this afternoon.   So he should be playing with big confidence and tomorrow will be a big test for me.   
   
 Q.   What is the key to beating Novak on any surface?  
RAFAEL NADAL:   I don't know.   But my key is play my best tennis.   Is the only way to win against a player like him:   play my best, wait that his inspiration is not in the top tomorrow, no?   
But everything comes little bit together.   You play your best, for opponent is tougher to play his best.   You play a little bit worst, for opponent is easier to play his best.  
Everything is a little bit up and down as usual, no?   But the only way to beat against Novak in any surface, but especially here, is play aggressive and with very high intensity and very, very good feelings.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT