DAVIS CUP FINALS
November 19, 2019
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Spain 1, Russia - 1   
NADAL/Khachanov 6-3, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: English first, please.   
 Q.  You had an injury and then you had to play the ATP finals, you made a slow start, and you only went to the semifinals. How fresh are you feeling right now? Do you feel the fact that you did not reach the semifinals will help you in the Davis Cup so you can maybe play up to finals this week?  
RAFAEL NADAL: We will see. I can't predict the future. Normally is better to win matches and to advance in rounds honestly than be out of the tournament. For the confidence, even if you are a bit more tired, than the confidence is higher so you have better chances. We will see what is going on later.   
A good start today against a tough opponent. The preparation had been not ideal because I only had two days of practice before the tournament start in such very different conditions than London. Went against a player that he already played a match yesterday. So I had a good victory.   
 Q.  Rafa, you obviously have a lot of experience in high-pressure situations. How did you compare the pressure of the occasion given it's a best of three in Davis Cup?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Well, honestly, the format makes things very difficult because every mistake put you in a position that you don't want to be.   
And losing that first match, we were under pressure with the rest of the groups. So let's see.   
I enjoy it. The atmosphere have been amazing. We know that the tie is close and we know now we have a huge match to play, a key match for the future of our team in this competition.   
 Q.  Rafa, it is the first day for you, for the press, for everybody in this tournament, the first two days. I would like to know, in your opinion, the pros and the cons that you could see at the beginning of this event. It is very difficult so quickly, but your first impression. What is good and what maybe is not too much and can be improved? Very difficult.  
RAFAEL NADAL: It is very difficult. And, honestly, it is difficult to answer today. Let me wait until the tournament is over to have a clear and better opinion than what I have today.   
Obviously, what I can say today is what I said just a few minutes ago. The format makes the things very close and you can see, for example, France against Japan today suffering a lot. You have mistake in one singles match and in the doubles anything can happen.   
So things are beautiful that way, too. But at the same time, for the best teams, it makes the things so dangerous.   
The only negative thing in my personal opinion is we are just starting the last match and it is quarter to 1:00, and that makes big trouble for us, for the players and the same time for the people who are coming to the stadium, too, because tomorrow is a workday. So that makes the thing difficult. For me, that's the only negative thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT