AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2012
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/L. Lacko
  6‑2, 6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How was today's match and how do you feel with your knee?   
RAFAEL NADAL:   Good.   The knee is fine.   That's important thing.   The match was a really complete match, a really solid one.   Very happy about my game.   
Being in fourth round without losing a set, it's fantastic news.   
   
 Q.   Do you like birds?   You had to wait for the birds to leave.   
RAFAEL NADAL:   Yeah, I like.   Not to wait during the match, but it was a good fun because they were trying to take ‑ I don't know how to say in English.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel it's been fairly comfortable so far for you?   Has it been quite easy for you so far?  
RAFAEL NADAL:   Today, the match?   
   
 Q.   So far through the tournament.   
RAFAEL NADAL:   Everything was easy it seems today?   
   
 Q.   Do you feel as though your progress through the draw has been quite easy?  
RAFAEL NADAL:   No.   I am playing well.   If you are playing well, things can be a little bit less difficult.   If you are playing bad, every match will be very, very difficult, no?   
I did well.   I played both matches, three matches at very good level.   Today was one of the best, solid, without mistakes, comfortable with the serve, having good return.   
So nothing is easy.   Everything is difficult.   Every match you have your problems.   First set was 6‑2, but was a really fighted set.   That's my feeling.   Was tough one.   
But I played solid all the match, so that's why the result.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about John Isner's progress.   
RAFAEL NADAL:   He's this kind of player that must be in the top, in my opinion, because there is no one reason why he is not in the top 13 of the world, top 14 of the world, my opinion.   
Fantastic serve.   More than fantastic serve.   The movement to be like this is very good, and he has fantastic forehand.   
I don't know why last year, especially the first part of the year, he didn't play very well, because he has everything to be there.   I know he's one of the opponents that you don't want to meet against.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT