SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 12, 2011
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/G. Garcia-Lopez
  6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It was a good revenge from last year in Bangkok, I suppose?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, was tough lose last year in Bangkok. Less painful because I came after winning the US Open, but probably was the more unbelievable lose in my career against him last year because I never had as many chances as I had in that match, and I lost. 
 Was a little bit in my mind today in the breakpoints, that's the true. And for the rest, sure, I am happy to be in the second round. I have the comfortable victory with two sets. I didn't play my best match, but is unbelievable the conditions how can change from Tokyo to here. The ball is completely different. Something must change because is too dangerous for the shoulders. For us is a big change. 
 Tournaments straight must be the same ball. That's my feeling. And here the ball are completely different than Tokyo. 
 But I am very happy to be in the second round. Tomorrow will have a difficult match. Hopefully if I will be able to win tomorrow, I will be able to more adapt. 

 Q. Can you tell us a bit more about the differences between the balls, how it affects the way you have to adjust. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, first thing is the ball changed unbelievable during day or during night. I practiced every day during day, and during night conditions are so different, no? 
 If we compare the Tokyo ball with this one, Tokyo was much bigger, slower. This ball is very fast, goes small, and doesn't stay on the racquet. The ball fly a lot and is tough. But I have to play well with this ball. 
 The problem is not the ball. The problem is the difference between two balls. I don't know how to say, but if you compare another sport, is difficult, but maybe golf you cannot change the ball in every tournament. If you give the players a different ball in every tournament, they going to be upset. 
 That's what's happening here sometimes. That's something that, in my opinion, can change. In my opinion, not difficult to change. Especially this time the change was really radical. 

 Q. Andy was saying the same thing yesterday. Have you two been having a chat? What do you want to see done? He wants the balls standardized. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: For me is not necessary a standard ball. But during a season when you have straight tournaments, for example, you start the clay court season, you have the same ball for the clay court season; you have the American hard court season, have the same ball. Indian Wells and Miami, that happens, there is the same ball in both tournaments, so that's positive. 
 But here, for example, you play in Bangkok one ball, Tokyo another ball, here another ball. That's something that can change. Is not put a standard ball for all the year. We can have different balls on tour. But you cannot change the ball every week. That's too much, in my opinion. Is dangerous for the injuries. 

 Q. Same was the case on the clay, wasn't it? They changed going into Roland Garros, Madrid and Rome changed to get in line with Roland Garros. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: For me, I understand. That is not very important change because you have one week to prepare Roland Garros. That's the true. In the previous tournaments before Roland Garros, I think was Nice and World Cup in Dusseldorf was the same ball, so that's positive. 
 But what cannot happen is have one ball in Rome, one ball in Madrid, one ball in Barcelona. That don't work, doesn't work, because are straight weeks. 
 You have a week to adapt to the ball, in my opinion is not a problem. But the problem is, for example, when you arrive to the final, for example let's say the ball is different between Madrid and Rome, you arrive to the final in Madrid, in one day you have to play with completely different ball in Rome. 

 Q. You know why it is, though? Because of the commercial deals that each tournament can make for itself. So do you think this is a problem that is an indication of everything that you're talking about?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I am very happy to win less money and be more health.

 Q. As we just heard, Andy has similar feelings about this as you've just been explaining. What about the other players? Is there a strong feeling?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I talked with Gilles Simon this afternoon and he believe exactly the same. Yeah, a lot of players believe that. 
 We don't need to make a big history of that. Just try to change and that's it. 

 Q. Can I ask you about something in your book. When you talked about Novak Djokovic, you said three or four years ago when you were asked: There's you and there's Federer, who will be the next player who might challenge you? You said straightaway Djokovic. What was it that you saw in Djokovic then that made you think he would be the player to challenge you and Roger?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, later was Andy Murray. I say that four years ago because is when Djokovic started to play really well. And for me, the level what he shows to everybody in Australia 2007, was really, really high. So I thought that in 2007 he will be the No. 1. No, 2008 I thought that. But after that I think I had a fantastic season. 
 But, you know, he is able to do very difficult things very easy, so... He can play inside the court. The most difficult thing on tennis is play inside the court and change the direction of the ball. He was able to do it really well and very easy. 

 Q. Is your book selling well? Do you know?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I hope so. I don't know. I think so (smiling). 

 Q. You just said thank you in Chinese. I would like to know how many times you have practiced Chinese? Would you like to know a little bit more Chinese? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I believe is too difficult (smiling). 
 I like to know a few words from a different languages. I tried my best last week in Tokyo. Now I am enjoying to know a few words of every language, and that's it. But I have enough work studying English than study with the Chinese now. 

 Q. Can I ask you about something other than tennis. Did you manage to get to see Spain's win over Scotland in the European Championship? If so, did you remind Andy Murray of the result?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, I didn't. I just talked with him five minutes ago, but I did not remember that. 
 For us, wasn't a big victory (laughter). I am joking. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT