AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 10, 2011
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. TSONGA/R. Nadal
  6-7, 6-4, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What are your thoughts on that?
 RAFAEL NADAL: My thoughts was I didn't play bad at the beginning, no? He was serving really well. Second set I had my chances, in my opinion. 
 Probably after losing second set mentally I lost my concentration. First game mentally a little bit tired. A lot of matches in a row. 
 And after that, you know, with the break in the third it was a mountain for me to come back into the match. Probably I wasn't there like usual, but certainly I think I need a little bit of break.

 Q. You missed an easy volley at the net on game point. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Not an easy volley. It was a dropshot. It wasn't a volley.
 Terrible mistake for that moment after he played a good return. He played well. He played well. And I didn't play every point if was the last like I do usual, and for that reason the third set was tough.

 Q. Is that because you're tired mentally and physically, as well? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: A little bit of everything, no? I had a tough Roland Garros. I had tough clay court season. American season was two finals, too. So I played all the matches possible this last four or five months, so is fantastic my result last five months, very happy for everything.
 Yeah, I came here. I tried in all the moments. So I tried in doubles, I tried in singles, I tried to practice hard. Hopefully it was good preparation for me. 
 Sorry for the tournament because I had my chance to be in the semifinals, but it wasn't possible today.

 Q. How long will you rest? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know yet. I just lost five minutes ago. I don't know.

 Q. Do you think you'll go back home for a few days?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I'm sure. 

 Q. You must be looking forward to that. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: That's important for me, yeah? Always be there with the family around, the friends and everything, having people close to me. 
 So I need few days to be with them and hopefully come back full to Wimbledon probably next Wednesday or Thursday; Wednesday, I think.

 Q. Is it concerning at all or is it also good that you got a couple of extra days off?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Negative thing is I lost; positive thing is I have few days off and can stop a little bit mentally. I can be a little bit more relaxed, because every day -- I play every day with pressure. Wake up every day with that pressure that you have to play is not easy, and that's what happened for me last four months every day.

 Q. Will you touch a tennis racquet when you go home? 
RAFAEL NADAL: Do some physical performance. I don't think so. I don't have grass courts there. Have maybe some serves, yes. But rest of the things, nothing.

 Q. What is the one thing, Rafa, you will look forward to doing most when you go home? What will be the best thing about being at home for a few days?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Be with the friends, be with the family, play some golf, relax, go fishing maybe. That's relaxing, too. You know, have a little bit of distraction mentally, think of other things, not tennis.

 Q. Do you find it hard to switch off, to not think about tennis?
 RAFAEL NADAL: You know, it's tough when -- is impossible when you have Wimbledon next week, that's for sure, but try to do different things to be ready for Wimbledon, that's true. 

 Q. Are you confident you can recharge your batteries? Are you confident that you can recharge your batteries before Wimbledon?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yes. I am very confident. I didn't know if I will play well, but I gonna be there with high motivation and hopefully in perfect performance physically.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT