BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 20, 2011
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/R. Nadal
  4-6, 6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What happened after the sixth game of the second set when you lost six games in a row?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Nothing. I think I was playing my best match here. The first set I think I played really good, having the control of most of the points, and I felt well.
 After that, at the end of the first set, I started to serve really bad; and second set still in the beginning, even if I won the games, because he had more mistakes than usual with the second serve return, I play less aggressive. That's true. But is because my serve didn't work that well, no? 
 So I was thinking too much about the serve more than the game in that moment, so I stop a little bit the legs in that situation. The moment I had the 40-15 with 3-2, 3-All, after I had the break back, but I lost another time my serve. 
 So the serve was the difference today in my opinion. It's true I play with less intense after the first set, but I think everything is because of the serve.
 So just congratulate him. I think he did better than possible to start one season. He's playing well. He's in the right place at the right moment. So all the best for him for the rest of the season.

 Q. You know what it's like when you get into a run of form and you feel so confident about everything in your game. Is that what you sense a little bit from Novak at the moment? Whatever the situation, he feels really good about it?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I can't have his feelings. Everybody has different feelings.

 Q. You know what it's like when you feel as though you're so strong. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Maybe, yeah. But seriously, for moments today -- I never like to say that, no, but for moments I felt I had the control of the match. 
 So was one of these days then he start and he play winners from all the places, and I can't stop him. I think it wasn't one of his days. I think when I was playing really good, when I was playing well in the first set, he was defending more than me and I was more inside the court. I think I was playing better than him in the beginning.
 After that, it's true, he didn't have mistakes. He was more regular in his game without mistakes, even better than me. Always the better player win, and he was better player than me today in general. 
 But the more positive thing is I played against a player who is playing better on the tour right now. When I played well, I didn't feel worse than him today.

 Q. Can you pinpoint why your serve went bad on you today? Can you tell us why you think your serve went bad on you? It seemed pretty good the first set, and then it just... 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah.

 Q. Anything you can point a finger to?
 RAFAEL NADAL: If I had the solution, if I know the problem and the solution, I will change during the match. 
 So I think I lost a little bit the coordination. I have to analyze a little bit more why that happened, no? 
 So it's too early, and I have to watch the video about what was totally wrong in my serve today, and work to improve. So is no more secret than work and learn about mistakes. 
 Always is better learn when you are winning than when you lose. That's much better. (Smiling.) But for me, at the same time, is a very positive tournament, very positive result, very important points for me.

 Q. As you said, when you've had a month out of the game and you're not quite sure how strong you're going to be. To get a full week of tennis, even though you've lost the final, has to be somewhat encouraging for you. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I said yesterday and before yesterday, be in semifinals was a positive result for me. Be in the finals I think is fantastic result.
 Right now I am not very happy, because, I say before, it wasn't one of these matches, and I -- well if we started the match and I see Nole playing much better from me at the beginning, so I accept, I go home.
 I played a good tournament in the time. My feeling is not one of these days, so I felt I really can win today. I am a little bit sad for that, but that's the game. Sometimes I won and I felt that I wasn't ready to win. That's the game. 
 I said for me it was a really positive thing even if I - really positive week or two weeks - even if I lost today. I said it is important 600 points for the confidence, one final for the confidence, and the biggest and the most important thing is I finish the week much better than when I started, no? 
 So that's always a very good feeling, and that's a lot of confidence for the next tournaments start right now. When I play this tournament, probably the four months more important of the season for me, and to start with a final after one month outside of competition - and even if I am in competition, play a final in tournament like this, is very positive - so I am very happy for that. 
 I have to keep working about a few aspects of the game. I think I had a few ones very positive for; moments, and other ones, like my serve and I think the intensity of the match for a few moments, that's the worst thing.
 But I think the tactic of the match when I was playing well in the beginning was really good. The forehand was much better than the previous days. The backhand I think worked well during all the tournament. 
 Slice, too. I went to the net. A lot of positive thing; a few negative thing. And with these few things, I was not able to win today. So I improve that.

 Q. In the second set, the long game that ended the set, you had a breakpoint. If you had gotten that, could that have turned it around? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, always is "if I," and that's doesn't exist. So you make or you don't make, and I didn't make. (Smiling.)
That's the true, and I think is difficult to analyze, if -- maybe if I won that game I gonna lose the next one with my serve, so that's the true, no? Because that part of the game, my serve, was very far from Indian Wells (Laughter.)

 Q. During the trophy ceremony, Novak said that for him you were the best player ever. What were your feelings at the time? Is that something he said to you privately? Was that a surprise to you? How do you feel about that?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, we have a very good relationship. I happy about what he said, and thank you to Novak. But that's not true, so... (Laughter.) He still beat. Accept that when that's not the true. 
 But anyway, thanks a lot to him for his words, but... 

 Q. Could you talk a little bit about Novak's play? He's had this great run, maybe since Davis Cup, Australia, here. What has he done to pick it up? What's the difference?
 RAFAEL NADAL: One player cannot change in two months, because I played against him in London, and right now, four months later, seems like totally different. No, that's not the true, no? I think he always was a fantastic player. 
 Probably I think he didn't play his best, even being No. 3 of the world, that's very difficult. But I think he didn't play consistently for moments, because his serve last year and the year before I think wasn't that good than what it was three years ago. 
 So he had a little bit problems with the serve, in my opinion, a few years ago. But right now he change it another time. He is serving well, and he started the season winning. So is because he was ready to win, for sure, and he was the player who was playing better. 
 But, you know, after winning a Grand Slam, and if the player who wins a Grand Slam is very good, like him, is very easy to continuing playing well. I know how confident -- how my confidence is after winning important tournament, and is much easier win next one. 
 Right now he's playing on his favorite surface, I think, because hard court, outdoor I think is when he play better. It's his favorite surface. So he is in confidence, he's playing well, he's very good player. So we will see when he lose the first time. I don't know if gonna happen in Miami or happen in Monte-Carlo or not gonna happen. (Laughter.)
 But I think is everything about confidence and nothing -- is not big change, no. 

 Q. What was going through your mind second set and third set? He won six straight games, and you said earlier you felt like you were playing well and wasn't a big difference. But when he wins six straight games, can you talk about how you're feeling and your frustration?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, you know, I explained. I talked for a long -- I don't know if I am ready to talk more in English. (Laughter.)
 No, seriously, I say before I think I was too worried about my serve to play my best level from the baseline for moments, and that's what happens. My serve didn't work. He had the chance all the time to attack me with the second serve. 
 I think I served 25% of the serves. I can't play with this percentage. Nobody can play with this percentage. Well, maybe if somebody can do it, that's mine, because always in the statistics, I am the player who win more points with the second serve. 
 But playing against Novak Djokovic, is impossible with match play and with the second serve all the time. So that's what happened, and that's why I lost six games in a row and what's going on in my mind. Please put one first serve inside, so that's what I was thinking. 
 And after that I start to think about the 6-0 in the third, so I was focused on trying to win a game. 

 Q. For the No. 1 spot, who is the bigger threat, Federer or Djokovic?
 RAFAEL NADAL: And me? I am out? (Laughter.)

 Q. I said threat. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: We will see. Well, Nole start with big advantage right now, 3,000, almost 4,000 points, so that's a lot. That's a lot for serious player like him. That's a lot for complete player like him, because he can play really good on all the surfaces. He has a big advantage. 
 Now, when I am talking about the No. 1, I'm talking about finish day No. 1, not being No. 1 during the season. Because that's important, but at the same time -- well, for me it's not that, the most important thing. 
 If you finish the No. 1 of the year, No. 1 of the world at the end of the season, that's the most important thing. Well, he's right now in the best position. We will see what's going on. 
 You know, I started the tournament 17th of the race; I gonna finish this tournament No. 6 of the race. That's a big improve for me, very positive. I am closer to the top positions, and Federer played a good semifinals, a good result, too. He's there. He's like Nole. He can play really good on all the surfaces: Miami, Monte-Carlo, Barcelona, Rome, Madrid, Roland Garros. 
 After Roland Garros, I will tell you who is the biggest favorite to be No. 1, because is after two months of competition. Only thing I can tell you is Djokovic is in the best position. We will see what's going on in the clay season. After this, first six months of the season, we start to see what are the chances of everybody.
 But that's what's sure, is you think I have not one chance. (Laughing.) 

 Q. Del Potro said the other day he thought Novak had the best return of serve at the moment. Del Potro the other day said he thought Novak has the best service return in the men's game at the moment. Would you agree with that?
 RAFAEL NADAL: He's a very good returner. Difficult to say who is the better one, because we have to talk in general. We have to put all the surfaces together, not only hard court. 
 So for me, David Ferrer is fantastic returner. Federer for sure, too. Andy Murray, too. Nalbandian is unbelievable. Djokovic is there; he's in this group. But say who is better than other one, for me is impossible. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT