SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2010
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/D. Nalbandian
  6-7, 6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. You had to play some of your very best tennis today to beat David. Were you surprised how well he played?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, no, I am not surprised, no? I know how well he serve and how well he can play. Well, I know for sure, because, you know, the first two meetings against him how was, 62, 6-1, 6-4, 6-0 for him. 
 So when you go another time on court against one player with this talent, you are always a little bit scared. I started the match playing pretty well, really good. And, yeah, he has the break back, and in the tiebreak I have 5-4 and I did amazing double fault by two meters.
 After that, you know, was there that the match was close. But I think having a long first set for everything was better for me than for him, no? 
 If I win -- because if I win the set, for him gonna be difficult still believing on the victory. And if I lose the set, is because probably he is more tired than me. I felt that. 
 He had important chance in the beginning of the second. I served with the 15-40, well, good game, and after that I played well. I felt he was a little bit more tired than me. He started to have more mistakes, and was a little bit easier for me to play. 

 Q. What makes him so good? He's beaten Roger eight times. Is it the backhand? Just the whole package?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Everything, I think. He's very complete player. 
 Anyway, look, I'm very happy to see him back after important surgery. He's a close friend of mine. He is talent, no? He can play very easy. He can make very difficult things very easy. 
 So, you know, when he's playing at his best level he makes you feel like you are nothing in the middle of the court, no? 
 So I think it's strange that one player like David don't have a Grand Slam victory, because he has everything to win. 

 Q. With Murray and Djokovic out, you have a big chance to gain ranking points on them. Do you think about that at all in this tournament? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I think about me, no? That's like a league, and every tournament is like another match. We will see what's happening end of the season, no? 
 For me, every match is important. I try to do my best in every tournament, in every moment when I am on court. Well, for me, doesn't affect a lot if Murray or Djokovic is outside if I lose today.

 Q. But the best players are expected to maintain such a great level all the time, and when they don't reach that level, people are surprised. How difficult is it to keep that level for the whole time? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, you know for a long time about tennis, and probably we are in a moment of the tennis, the last few years, that the top players are unusual. They never lose in the first rounds, no? 
 That's very difficult to do it all the time, and these players, the top players, we are doing without losing in the first round for a long time. Seems when one time happen that like everyone is surprised, but you don't know how tough is be mentally ready all the time and playing enough well all the time.
 Because every match decides for a few moments, and if you are not 100% and you have a little bit bad, not the best luck on the draw, you can go out very soon.

 Q. I know you never like to look ahead, but you realize the tournament would love to see you against Roger in the final; the fans would love to see it. Do you care who you see in the final as long as you're there?
 RAFAEL NADAL: If I am in the final, I don't care. (laughter.)
 For me, important thing is try to be in the final. But, you know, I am in fourth round for me, no, so it's far away from that moment. Step by step, and sure it's important win for me today and I very happy for that. 
 I very happy how I am doing in this American hardcourt season. Every match right now I want to be really important for me, and every victory give me confidence.

 Q. You'll play David Ferrer, another friend, I'm sure. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Sure.

 Q. Tough out, right? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Sure. He's a very good player from the baseline. Unbelievable. Very fast. He can play very good with his forehand, no? He's very tough. Gonna be very tough match tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT