SONY ERICSSON OPEN
April 2, 2010
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. RODDICK/R. Nadal
  4-6, 6-3, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What do you think made the difference out there in today's match?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, I think I started the match playing pretty well in the beginning. Later I had the match, well, under control in the first set with my serve.   
 Later in the second set Andy was serving well. No, I didn't have a lot of chances on the return. He play very aggressive game and started to play more aggressive in the game where he did me the break. It was a change, and it was surprise foe me.   
 After that, in the third, you know, he put more pressure on my serve, attacking more. He was serving very regular, pretty well the third, second. Just congratulate him. He's playing really well. Yeah.   
  
  Q. Did you expect him to play serve and volley so much on his second serve?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, he can do it well, no? Well, yeah, I didn't return very well today, but he did well. He played well.  
  
  Q. Now when you look back, what would you do? Would you do something different?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: You can always do. You can always do different things, no? But you never know. It's very early to say what I had to do it.   
 Yes, just keep working like this, keep improving. You know, two semifinals in a row, first two Masters 1000 of the season for me is positive. Positive American hardcourt season, first part. So, yeah, happy for that.  
 I am playing well. I had very good matches in these two tournaments. That's the positive things. Worst thing I lost two semifinals in three sets. That's it.   
 Just if you are there, you gonna have your day. You're gonna win one day. I am happy how I am doing.  
  
  Q. Did you feel the match turned a little bit in the second set when he got the break after the defensive lob and then offensive lob? Did you feel the momentum switch there?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: You know, the match change. He attacked -- he has put more pression with his forehand on my serve.   
 I wasn't ready to play better in that moment, and that's makes the difference.  
  
  Q. Did you feel your forehand was a little bit off as the match went on?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I was playing well with the forehand. I had few mistakes in the last games, but, you know, when you are break down in the third and against Roddick, you feel pressure. That's it, no?   
 No, I am feeling great.  
  
  Q. Are you happy to be getting back on the clay?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, no. I am feeling really well playing in all the surfaces, and I hope the clay help me a little bit more.  
 But, I don't -- I am happy for everything. I started the season well. I am playing well. You know, clay gonna have probably if I am playing well more chances.  
  
  Q. Yeah, but you've talked about how the clay is better for your body I meant more.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: That's much better, sure.  
  
  Q. Is it harder or easier to go and play against a guy who you know is always gonna put you under pressure and is a very good competitor? Does that make you mentally sharper, or is there a fear factor?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, no, when you play against the best was world players like Andy. Anything can happen. I won against him few times. In Indian Wells, two semifinals. No, I was ready to win, no?   
 Yeah, I know him. He's a very good player, very good competitor. If you go down a little bit like I did today in the second and in the third, he beat me, no?   
 So just congratulate him and wish him the best of the luck for the final.  
  
  Q. Did he play any differently than the matches before? Did you notice anything different, or was he the same Andy?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, I didn't feel.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you're getting closer and closer to winning a tournament again?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: 7-6 in the third last week in semifinals; 6-4 in the third right now this week, or 6-3. Doha I have the chance. Too match points. I am there.   
  
  Q. Have you been working on anything specifically during this hardcourt season that you want to improve in your game?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I try to play more aggressive with my forehand, going to the net more times, and trying to play with rhythm all the time. Trying to go more inside than usual, and I did well.   
 I had a lot of very good matches. Today wasn't the best, and last week's semifinals was the worst. But for the rest, I can feel this is very positive.  
  
  Q. Is Andy one of the better thinkers that you play against, Rafa? Obviously you dominated the first set with the forehand. He seemed to be more aggressive with his forehand and return of serve. Is he a good thinker out there?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, yeah, sure. But at the same time he was more aggressive in the second set because I played a little bit shorter and I serve a little bit worse.  
 Always is like this. I think if I played more aggressive he didn't have his chance to go, to play like he did in the second set, more aggressive in that moments, no?   
  
  Q. You're very well-known for your fighting ability. People admire and love that about you. Then you have this break and some issues and problems. Are you completely back in terms of how your spirit feels going out to play the matches, the hunger to win matches? Are you completely back now?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Completely sure. I'm very happy how I am doing. You know, today was a lose, but my motivation is full.   
 I worked a lot to be where I am, and I am feeling -- I told you before the tournament, and I will tell you another time right now -- I am ready to do everything, no? I think I am ready to play my best, and I did for moments.  
 That's the way. Just gonna try my best in Monte-Carlo now.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT