SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 26, 2010
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/T. Dent
  6-4, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. Obviously a good start. Nice tidy win. Your serve wasn't broken. Is that how you drew it up, how planned?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yes, was good start for me. Play against Dent is always a difficult match because you don't have rhythm.   
 You know, I have my chances on the return, small ones, only few ones, and I did. I converted, and I have three breaks against his unbelievable serve he has.   
 So I happy for that with my victory. 6-4, 6-3 is comfortable win against a difficult opponent.  
  
  Q. Djokovic lost. Is it advantageous to you when a player like Djokovic is out of the draw?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: I am in second round, no, or third. I only have the chance to play Djokovic in semifinals, no? Sorry for him. He's a lose for tournament. He's one of the biggest, you know, biggest stars of the tournaments, and it's important lose.   
 And for me, you know, doesn't matter, no, because I am in the other side. So remains a lot of matches.  
  
  Q. The other night, on Tuesday, you were practicing around 8:00 in the evening. I saw you hit purposely a lot of balls went like way out. Was there anything in particular you were training on, or...   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Way out?   
  
  Q. (In Spanish.) You actually broke two strings twice. Was there anything in particular? You were hitting really hard.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: All I know it was the first day for me to practice here.   
  
  Q. Getting your range?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I have to adapt a few days, no? If you watch the match -- the practice of yesterday of me, I practiced very well.   
 But when you arrive a different place, always the first day it's not easy.  
  
  Q. The other day you said you were having problems with your tooth. How is it? Have you seen any dentist since?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, it's better. It's better. It's not perfect, but it's much better.  
  
  Q. Are you gonna get it pulled after the tournament?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: (Through translation.)   
 I will have to do it, I think, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT