BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2010
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/R. Schuettler
  6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It looked like conditions were pretty difficult out there. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, difficult ones today. It was, well, in the beginning -- well, today when I went to practice in the morning was perfect conditions, no? I feel really well practicing.
 And when I went on court, the weather completely changed, so it was difficult to adapt. But, you know, I start the match playing well. 
 Later, when I playing in favor of the wind, it was very difficult for me with the backhand, because I feel it if I only touch the ball, the ball was out, went too much.
 But it was a good start with the conditions for me. Very happy.

 Q. Physically how's your condition, because it looks like you're moving around well again? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah. Thank you. I'm fine.

 Q. How close are you to being where you want to be?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know. No, I'm happy to be here. Happy how I am today, and I am ready to try everything.

 Q. No worries? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Always worries, but everybody has. (laughter.)

 Q. But the knees feel fine?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah. 

 Q. Good. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Thank you. 

 Q. So tonight could you try a lot of things on court, or were you just going out and saying, I'm going to play my normal game and see if I get the results... 
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, tonight is no chance to try different things, no, because the conditions was very difficult. And only thing is try to win the match, play acceptable, and I did. 
 I think I feel really well with the forehand. That's very important to my game, and maybe I can play better with the better conditions with the backhand.
 I wasn't serve bad if we know how tough was serving today. So, yeah, I am practicing really well, so that's very important.

 Q. Last night was incredible. Four of the greatest male players of all time on court raising a lot of money for an important cause. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah.

 Q. And then it got a little difficult or got a lot of back and forth with especially Andre and Pete. Could you tell us what your thoughts were when there was all that back and forth between them?
 RAFAEL NADAL: During the match, no, because I didn't understand nothing. (laughter.) No, that's the true. They speak very fast for me. 
 So, yeah, for me it was a good event. In my opinion, we did important thing, and we hope -- I hope everybody help to Haiti, because we don't have to forget they still need help and help all the time.

 Q. So was this a time when you were glad your English could not pick up all of the... 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I was very happy I didn't understand nothing. (laughter.)

 Q. I know you didn't understand a lot, but could you feel the tension between Sampras and Agassi?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, not on court. And outside, no, for sure. For sure, none.

 Q. But definitely in the locker room?
 RAFAEL NADAL: The locker room? 

 Q. The locker room, yes. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: No. 

 Q. No? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: No. We was together before the match, four, all four, talking there. 

 Q. What was that like? It must have been pretty special to have the four of you talking. Can you share a little bit what that was like to have the four of you talking in the locker room?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, for me, you know, I tried to -- I didn't know. Was the first time for me to met with Sampras. I only watch him play one time in Stuttgart a long time ago when I have 12 years old, so maybe '99 or something like this. So it was special for me I meet with him. And for sure the same time was a pleasure. With Andre, I met him before. And with Roger for sure, no?
 So, yeah, it was a nice experience, and for sure I was very happy to be part of the event.

 Q. Do you think you and Roger maybe get along a little better than Pete and Andre do? Do you think you get on a little better than Pete and Andre do, maybe? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: (Through translation.) I don't know, no? We have good relationship with Roger, and Andre and Pete, I didn't say. I didn't see nothing strange, no, you know. In the court there is a joke, so... 

 Q. Can you compare how you feel and how you're playing right now as opposed to a year ago when you came here and won? Is your condition close to the same?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah. Yeah. I am not feeling -- yeah, I'm feeling okay.

 Q. Is your tennis at the same place?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Every year is completely different. I always say the same when somebody is trying to compare every year. I never like to comparison between years, because the situation always is different. 
 But I am playing well. I am playing enough well to try to have a good result here, and that's what I gonna try, no? 
 If not, I gonna keep working because I'm in the right way. I started the season playing really well, so I was very happy how I started. Later I have the problem with the knee. 
 But for me, seriously, the last four months of the last year was tough for me, because I didn't see the way how to play well because I had problem and was difficult to get the rhythm. 
 But now, no. Now, no. I started playing the season really well and feeling on the top level another time in my game. You know, when you get a little bit injury, seems like you have to start another time. But I think I am well. That's important.

 Q. Are you using Indian Wells and Miami for more preparation for the upcoming clay court season, or are you giving it the same amount of value throughout the whole... 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Every tournament for me is really important. When I go to tournament, I only think in that tournament. I never think about the next. I love Indian Wells. I love Miami. I love the clay season.
 But every tournament is really important. I'm focused on this one right now.

 Q. After last night when you came off court and you were told what Sampras and Agassi were saying to each other, what did you think of it all?
 RAFAEL NADAL: You know, it was -- you know, at the same time is not be easy be all the time with the speaker. Seems like you have to say something all the time, and finally I don't have any problem because for me difficult to say a lot of things in English.
 But, you know, for the rest is not easy have to talk another time, I have to be nice all the time. They, I think they try to be -- to have fun there. I think they did. 
 You know, you understand what they said. I didn't understand. I don't feel -- I didn't feel any tension. That's what can I say, no? 

 Q. By the way, your English is great, okay? So you're doing great. Talk about the draw ahead. Do you look at the draw and the road ahead in this tournament for yourself?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I play against Mario now, no? I play against Mario, and we will see what's happen next match, no? Every tournament I go day by day. 
 Sure, I know the draw, but for me, the point is Mario right now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT