AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2010
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/P. Kohlschreiber
  6-4, 6-2, 2-6, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How have you pulled up after that long match?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, the most important thing is I won, so I happy for that. I am less happy about my game, what I was practicing.   
 But, yeah, you know, everybody have not very good days. I think I played much better the fourth set than the rest of the sets. The second sets, few moments I played well, too. But the first set and the third, I played bad.   
 Yeah, I need to play a little bit more aggressive for next matches.   
  
  Q. Anything in particular you think you need to work on?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Just play a little bit more aggressive, play a little bit longer with the forehand and backhand, and that's it, yeah. Play more aggressive and longer; everything is easier like that.   
  
  Q. He seemed to attack your serve, especially your second serve. Are you worried about that?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: No. I was serving 145, 150 lot of times. So is not bad second serve. A lot of players, when play against the top players, play more aggressive than usual. So is nothing to do about that, no?   
 The balls, if they are with confidence, the ball goes in, like few moments today for Phillipp, is difficult to stop. Is difficult at the same time do this thing all the match.   
  
  Q. How was your confidence tonight?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: I think I started slow. I started little bit slower than usual. Later I save lot of breakpoints in the first set. First set I didn't feel playing really well. But after that I played much better the second. And in the third I started terrible, no?   
 I had big chance with Love-40 to break back. If I did, yeah, that was very important game in the third, no? And in the fourth, he played well, and I think I played much better.   
  
  Q. Does that match help you going into the rest of the tournament, that you improved?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: I hope so. You never know, no? You never know. I hope so.   
 I am ready to play well, but I have to wait.   
  
  Q. What about your next opponent, Karlovic? How do you approach that match?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Always a really difficult opponent, no, because the match is decides in a few points. So the thing is very be concentrate with my serve all the time and try to convert the small opportunities that I can have on the return. That's it.   
  
  Q. Did the heat affect you at all? Do you prefer playing earlier?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Doesn't matter for me. I happy with everything.   
  
  Q. Do you spend time tomorrow analyzing this match or do you immediately look at the next one? What do you take from it as you move on?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, analyze this match today. Tomorrow is practice and try to practice well to get good confidence for the next match, no? I talk with my coach already in the locker room. Maybe we will talk a little bit more later. But that's it. Tomorrow is another day.   
  
  Q. What level do you think you need to get to feel confident? Do you need to beat a top-10 player again?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Top-10 player again? What do you say?   
  
  Q. What do you need to accomplish to get your confidence? What kind of level of player do you have to beat before you are fully confident again?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I am confident. The season is long anyway. If I lost here next round, I gonna have a chances to play well during all the season. So Australian Open is very important tournament, but is not the end of the world.   
 You have a lot of time to get your full confidence, to play well. So I am there all the weeks fighting, try my best. When you are there all the time, finally you do.   
  
  Q. You played some amazing shots tonight. The volley after the pickup, some running passing shots. Do you surprise yourself sometimes with your shots?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, yes, no? Few ones, no? The forehands, surely I surprise. But I like this shot, running with the passing shot with my forehand. But, yes, the point that give me the second set, outside the net, yes, was one of the best forehands in my life probably.   
  
  Q. Who chose your orange shirt?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Myself and Nike.  
  
  Q. Do people like it? Have you had good feedback about it?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: You can ask the people.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT