AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2010
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Does it make you wonder that you're the defending champion yet you're not considered the favorite?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: What the question?   
  
  Q. You're the defending champion.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I understand.   
  
  Q. You're not considered a favorite, Federer is. Does that disturb you or worry you?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: For sure not, no. For sure, I'm not the favorite. For sure on hard court there is a lot of very good players. I think being No. 2 of the world, probably I am not the maximum favorite, but I am one of these ones.   
 So, sure, first of all, doesn't matter. Is like every year when I arrive to Roland Garros, everybody talk I am the favorite, no? Finally important thing is who plays better on the court.   
 I know you have to write who is the favorite and you like to talk about that, but only thing is who plays better on court. And we will see what happens next two weeks.   
  
  Q. On this court surface, is it any different for you? Do you like this surface?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Is nothing new for me. The surface is the same, like all the years. It's hard court, normal hard court. So I had good results here. I have very good results, I had bad results.   
 If I play well, I gonna have good chances to have a good result.   
  
  Q. Does it feel special to be back, having had such a fantastic tournament last year?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, sure. Anyway, if I won last year, being here in Australia is probably the easiest Grand Slam of the year. The organization, the people always was very nice with the players and with me for sure.   
 I feel very good here all the time, no? I spended one week before the tournament here. Was perfect.   
  
  Q. So how is your condition? Are you ready to win again?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know, no? I am ready to practice tomorrow and to try to play a good first round. We will see what's happen.   
  
  Q. You've had your fair share of injuries in the last 12 months. The previous year Roger was coming into this season from a similar perspective. Is there something you can take out of that confidence-wise to know you can come back from injuries so dramatically?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I didn't have bad results last five months, no? I didn't win. I didn't have perfect results. But I played. I was there all the tournaments.   
 Sure, is true, playing against the top players I didn't have a very good results. But I was playing not very well but not bad. So just a little bit more.   
 I started the season really well, playing really well there in Abu Dhabi and Doha. That the way. I try to play like this. If I play like I played there, I'm not worried.   
  
  Q. Correct me if I'm wrong, but you had one day break after the Davis Cup final, then you were back on the practice court.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I had one day, one day. We finished at 7th, at 9th I was practicing.  
  
  Q. Over Christmas, did you practice Christmas Day?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know. Christmas Day. 24th yes. 25th, no, party.   
  
  Q. So it was really hard work all through the off-season?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah. Last year I was injured. I had more time to practice. This year I finished 7th and I had only two weeks and a half. I did all in my hands practicing physically, and on court very hard. I think was a very good work.   
  
  Q. Are you able to practice as hard now as you ever did with your knee problem?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: With what?   
  
  Q. The way the knees are now, are you able to practice 100% just like you used to?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah. You can watch me to practice (smiling). You can come.   
  
  Q. After the ATP Tour Finals, you mentioned you need a little bit of time to recharge the batteries and find some confidence. Do you think you've done that since?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: The confidence? The only way to have confidence is winning matches, winning important matches, no? So I did there in Abu Dhabi and I did there in Doha. So I think I am in the really right way.   
 But, you know, that's needs a little bit more time. But, you know, the life change in nothing, in a few things, and I am ready to change. I am ready to try to play my best tennis, I think.   
 I don't know here, but I think I am playing well. I think I am playing much better than what I did last four months.   
  
  Q. Is it the hardest to win now a Grand Slam because of the strength and depth on the men's tour, do you think?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Easier now than how many years ago?   
  
  Q. Five years ago. Three years ago.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know. I don't know. I'll let you know after three years (laughter). I don't know. Sure, my feeling is always was very good players. That's true right now. Is young players, new generation. But always happen the same when new generation came, no? First two years of the new generation, always seems like going to change the world.   
 Happen the same when started with Hewitt, Nalbandian, Ferrero, Federer, Roddick, Coria. Happen the same at this time. So right now is a new generation. We will see what's happen. But for sure is interesting and are very good players.   
  
  Q. You and Roger have won I think 14 of the last 16 Grand Slams. Who do you think is the real threat here?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: We will see what's happen. I don't know. A lot of players can win right now, I think. I don't want to say everybody. But, yeah, like 12 players, 13 players have a good chance, gonna have a good chance.   
  
  Q. What do you make of your draw? How hard do you think the draw is? Maybe you could play Andy Murray in the quarterfinals if you both play well.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: We will see, no? I play first round against Luczak. I never talk about quarterfinals before. Remains four matches for quarterfinals. We will see what's happen before.   
 So I am here to play my best every day. Always just with humble and trying your best in every match you gonna have the chance to play this match.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT