BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 23, 2009
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. SODERLING/R. Nadal
  6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Straight sets today, but a close match. Do you think the loss was more to how you played or how he played? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, I think I didn't play really bad. I played okay. But in the important moments, I didn't have this necessary calm, no? So I had few mistakes. I play shorter in the important moments. That reason he beat me, no? 
 He is a big player in this surface, so is difficult. If you are not completely calm and playing very well in that moment, it's really difficult to win, and today I didn't play in this way in that moments. 

 Q. What do you feel you're lacking at the moment? It's more confidence or technical problems? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, I think, you know, I said 100 times, but is the true, no? The second half of the year was difficult for me, and probably I lost little bit this necessary out of confidence and this necessary calm in that moments. 
 But I am working really hard to come back at my best level. I think I'm not far away from my best level. But I need little bit more confidence and more calm in that moments, no? 
 So I don't know, this year is going to be extremely hard to finish really well. But I gonna work very hard to start next year very good. I believe in myself, that I can come back playing really well next year. 

 Q. What do you think of Soderling's chances on this surface during this tournament? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Everyone has his chances here, no? The best eight players of the world, so anything can happen. Everybody has chances. 

 Q. You're speaking as if you were not thinking anymore of No. 1. Is it true? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: If you think. I think the chances I have are not here, not to be No. 1. If you want to still talk about me be No. 1, I can, but I think is not the right moment (smiling). My level right now I think is not to be No. 1, no? 
 My level is to be still fighting and practicing hard to be ready as soon as possible to compete another time with equal conditions with everybody, no? Going on the court, with the full confidence in myself against everybody, that's what I'm working, no? 
 I think I am working really well, practicing to improve different things on my game, like every year I did. Is normal, the sport is like this. Sometimes you have some best moments; sometimes you have little bit worse moments. This probably is one of these moments for me right now. Just accept and work to improve the situation. 

 Q. How did the court feel today? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, it's okay. The court is okay, no? Not big bounce. But the court is not really fast. It's normal. It's okay. 

 Q. You said you lacked a bit of calm. Physically are you a hundred percent back after the injury problems?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, I'm very well. I am very well. Thank you. 

 Q. By the sounds of it, you'd be quite happy to see the end of this year, 2009, and get started for 2010. Is that the way you're feeling? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, no. Probably I not happy to finish this year, no? I am not tired. I had a long time outside of competition. So, no, for me the season, this year, the first year, the season, I am not feeling tired and I don't want to finish the season. But the season finish this week. For us, the Davis Cup final next week. That's what is. 
 I know to be ready next year, I gonna have one month, and these two matches - maybe more (smiling). I have this one week of year, one week of Davis Cup, and after, one month of practice in Mallorca. That's what I have to recover my hundred percent level to start next year with good level and chances to win in every place that I play, no? 

 Q. What went wrong today for you? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I said. It was the first answer question. You didn't hear? 

 Q. No. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Okay, I repeat. 
 I think I didn't play really bad. But in the important moments, I didn't have this calm, this necessary calm, to win these matches against the best players of the world, no? And this confidence, that moment, that's what was wrong today. 

 Q. Besides those reasons, do you think Soderling is now a player that doesn't fit so well to your game, because you lost the last two matches against him? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Maybe. You never know, no? I think this is not my feeling, but you never know. Can be. I think if I am playing well, I gonna have good chances to beat him in the future. 

 Q. I know it wasn't a particularly happy experience, the match today. What do you think of the conditions in the stadium, the support of the British crowd? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Very well, no? I think the atmosphere was unbelievable. Is doing a good work, the tournament is. All the time the full court, so that's very nice for the tennis, that's very nice for the players, very nice for everything, no? The conditions are good. Only the weather conditions can improve. Doesn't affect on the game (smiling). 
 But the tournament is really nice, and I happy to live this experience here in London. And, sure, the crowd was really nice with me all the time. 

 Q. Did you think about the match you played at Roland Garros at all today? Did that make you want to beat him any more?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No. I said 100 times, I don't believe on revenges, nothing of this. Every match is a different match. I went on court, try my best what I did all my life. I didn't thought, no one second, on the Roland Garros match. Is completely different conditions. The moment is completely different, too. So doesn't affect nothing, the Roland Garros match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT