SHANGHAI ATP MASTERS 1000
October 16, 2009
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/I. Ljubicic
  3-6, 6-3, Ret.

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Tonight was a good test of character for you? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, yeah, it was tough, no? It was a very difficult match. I started the first two games playing unbelievable, playing really well. First game I was unlucky because I don't convert the break. I play two very good forehand down-the-line winners.
 I had a very good passing shot, but he played good volley, drop volley, very difficult. Well, after that, you know, when you play against one player like Ljubicic with big serve, he start serving so-so, but after the break was very difficult to return, no? 
 He was serving very hard and putting a lot of first serves inside. Yeah, it was difficult match. I was lucky after the first set with Love-40, but I play well the two points, so that was very important. And down a breakpoint I go into the net. I had volley, cross-volley winner, so that's the point of the match.
 Later, sure, I sorry for him, never nice win like this. I know how tough it is, have to retire during a match. I just wish him fast recovery.

 Q. Were you worried after the first set? Were you worried that you could lose? You could be going home?
 RAFAEL NADAL: If I no worried, probably I am crazy, no? Having 1-1 and Love-40.

 Q. Tomorrow semifinal you will versus your good friend Feliciano, and Feliciano is also good at maybe big serve and also good at the volley. How will you face him?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Always the same, no? These kind of matches are very difficult always, because you don't have a lot of rhythm. When you are serving, you are all the time under pressure, no? Because they serve well like Ljubicic did today or like Feliciano is doing. I saw him, he play with more aces on the tournament, so he gonna serve well. 
 So, sure, all the points going to be very important. I have to be very concentrated with my serve all the time, and later we will see what's happened. I try to play aggressive when I have the chances on the return and hope, wait a little bit when he has to play a little bit more with second serves, no?

 Q. Tonight and yesterday you played some amazing shots from impossible situations. Do you sometimes surprise yourself when you play these shots and you think, gee, that was -- and you're quite surprised? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yes, no? But that's part of my game, so sure, sometimes I surprise myself with some balls. But I know from experience when I am ready, when I am playing well, when I am good physically, I save a lot of balls, difficult balls, and I can have this extra, no, with the passing shots, and that's very important on my game, no? It's very important be healthy to play these shots, but sure, be healthy and playing well. If not, is impossible.

 Q. Do you think you have a lot of energy saved as you were off the court for several months this season?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I played a lot of matches. That's true, no? I wasn't playing for a few times, but anyway, I don't know how many matches I have to this year, but I think I am one of the most, one of the player with one of the most matches, no? 
 That's because I play -- I was playing unbelievable the first five months of the season and playing a lot of matches, not because I played a lot of tournaments. It's because I arrive all the time, so I don't know if I have a lot of energy. 
 I hope, yes, because right now I am with a lot of illusion, a lot of motivation for this end of the season, and I'm working hard every day. And every win, every victory is really important. Makes me feel very happy, no? Because I had a hard time, difficult time at home, and when you are here and when you see I am in semifinals is very good. I'm very happy for that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT