U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2009
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/G. Monfils
  6-7, 6-3, 6-1, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It was a very difficult opening set. He really was challenging you in that opening set. Suddenly you just seemed to take control of the match. Can you explain the transition, what happened to you in the match tonight?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, first two sets was really tough, really hard physically and I think the tennis was very good level.
 I was playing really well the first set, too, no? I lost my serve in the 2-1, 3-1 I think was, 2-1, 3-1, but with unbelievable points, very long points. I thought I finish the points a few times, but the ball was coming back. 
 No, no, I think I came back well in the 5-4 playing very good game to break back. And in the tiebreak he didn't had any mistake with his serve. He play all first serves, so he beat me the first set, was tough. 
 But I still there, and physically it was tough for both. But I think for him a little bit more.

 Q. He said he tired. He said he got very tired toward the end. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, yeah. I feel it. I feel it after the first set and few games of the second, yeah, was a little bit -- he was a little bit more tired than me. So I feel that, and, well, that's gives me confidence. But anyway, I gonna fight.

 Q. Talk about the next match coming up. If you can, comment on the next match. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, well, against González, he's doing really well, no? He played at unbelievable all match today against Tsonga. Very good tennis, unbelievable forehands, so I know him very well. He knows me very well. I have to play aggressive. 
 If he gets the control of the point with his forehand, it's almost impossible beat him. So I have to play inside, play aggressive, and makes him feel not comfortable in every shot.

 Q. Is tonight's match the kind of match that you can derive a lot of confidence from, having been down a set and then being able to come back and outlast a player physically, as you did?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, I -- yeah, sure, is important match for the confidence. Very important, because I in quarterfinals, so that's very good new and very good result for me, no? Is very good comeback, be here in quarterfinals. 
 Right now, the rest of the tournament I know gonna be very difficult. I have to enjoy it. I must enjoy that, and I must to play very aggressive and the best tactically if I gonna have chances to continuing win any match.

 Q. The ninth game of the first set, you sort of took over when you broke him back. It was kind of like a matter of luck when he won the tiebreaker. Did you feel your confidence coming back after you broke him back in the first set?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, believe me, I feeled well all the time. I was losing in the first set, and I was playing really well, yeah. He was playing well, too. 
 So I was saying to me, I just must continuing like this. So if I play all the match like this, gonna be tough for him beat me. But that can happen and shake his hand and congratulate him.

 Q. What did you think when the man came out of the stands and came up to you?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, for me it wasn't the problem. The guy was really nice (laughter.)
Q. Did he say anything?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yes. He was a great fan. He said, I love you, and he kiss me. (laughter.)

 Q. Was he speaking Spanish?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, in English, but I understand that. (laughter.)

 Q. Gaël said that you seemed to be exactly as you were before the injury. You were strong physically. He felt no difference between you now and before. How do you feel now?
 RAFAEL NADAL: The knees are perfect. That's very important for me. Very important for me, no? Gives me lot of confidence. 
 The other day you guys asked me a little bit for the problem what I had on court, and I said I don't want to talk about injuries. And it's true. And it's normal. It's fair, I think, no? 
 I'm playing a tournament. I have another match after one day. It's normal don't want to talk about injuries, no, because you have next opponent. I still the same, no? 
 After the tournament, if I have something, I gonna say. 

 Q. What was your reaction to Andy Murray getting upset today, the No. 2 seed?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, it's important lose for the tournament. He was playing really well. Nothing, no? Sorry for him, because I know for him, sure. Was tough lose after winning in Montreal, having the semifinals in Cincinnati, so was a big expectation around him in this tournament.
 But Cilic played really well, no? These things happen. Happen to me at Roland Garros, so today was him. The tennis is, the level is very close. The matches decide in a few points. It's very difficult what the top players right now are doing. They are in the top, in the last rounds in almost every tournament, so that's not normal if you see the history. Not always was like this, so it's normal have loses, no? 

 Q. How do you like your draw now that Murray is not around?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, no, no, my draw is the same, no? I play quarterfinals against very tough opponent like González, and I'm not thinking more than this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT