U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2009
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/N. Almagro
  7-5, 6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What did the doctor say about your injury? Are you worried for the next matches?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, I don't want to talk about injuries. Sorry. No, no, I am a little bit tired to talk about injuries. I am here to try my best every day. 
 I won the match in three sets, so happy for that. I'm going to try my best next round. That's all.

 Q. How motivated are you by the fact this is the only Grand Slam tournament you've never won? Was that a factor in deciding to come back for this tournament?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No more motivation than before, no, because is a Grand Slam, no? Is a very big tournament. 
 So, yeah, the true is, well, is the only one who remains for me of the slams. Yeah, sure if any day I win here is important -- going to be very important title for me, no? 
 But you know how tough is everything. Important thing is try my best every year when I come here and wait, feel good. 

 Q. Was it a factor at all in deciding to come back?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Factor of what? 

 Q. That you've never won. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I am playing here. I always played here. I always gonna play here. No one wants to miss another Grand Slam. 

 Q. You said you didn't want to talk about injuries. Was that your knee or the abdominal situation?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I said I don't want to talk about injuries (laughter). 

 Q. Can you at least talk about how you felt after you got the treatment for the rest of the match?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I won 6-4, so you can see I didn't serve very fast. But I think I played better from the baseline than before. 

 Q. So outside of the serve, where did you feel your level was today? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Up and down a little bit, yeah. Almagro played really aggressive. I played a little bit short. I have to play more aggressive for next round, for sure. I gonna do.

 Q. Nicolas was playing very tough, especially in the first set. You had problems closing it down. How do you feel about that?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I didn't serve very well, no? So he had more chances to attack me on the return. 
 But, anyway, he was playing very hard, very aggressive. Was difficult for me have the control of the point, no? 
 But I have to play more aggressive for the next match, sure. For today was enough, so happy for that. I am sure I can do it better. 

 Q. If you play Monfils, can you talk about that matchup, what you have to do. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, I know him and he knows me. I beat him a few times. He beat me one time, I think. 
 Always tough opponent, no? Very, very fast player with a good serve. Very athletic player. So going to be very difficult match, anyway. 
 Acasuso, Monfils, they are playing well, going to be difficult. 

 Q. Near the end he hit a shot that went into the net and he threw his shirt over his head and got a laugh. What was your reaction to that? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: For what? 

 Q. When he hit the ball into the net. He put his shirt over his head then smiled at the crowd. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, well, he was losing two sets. Yeah, was a limit moment for him, no? Yeah, I think was good, no? He had a good tactic on court today. 

 Q. We are used to see you much more cheerful, especially after a win. Today you answer as if you're not happy. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, but I know -- I came here and I know everybody want to talk about the injury. I really don't want to talk about that. That's the thing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT