INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 1, 2009
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/F. Verdasco
  6-3, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Last night's match was a very physical match. Coming back again to play today, how tough is that to play another match so soon after last night?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Difficult conditions, no? Last match last night the court was slow; the ball was heavy. Today was completely different conditions. The ball is flying so much.   
 Yeah, I like the conditions of today. But after the change of last night, it's a big change, no? Last night I played really well, and today I didn't play my best. I had some mistakes, especially in the second set. The beginning, I had a lot of mistakes.   
 The first set was okay. I did well. But the second, I had a little bit lucky he had important mistakes in some important points.   
  
  Q. The second set your errors came from concentration or a bit tired, or what do you think was the reason?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, No. I had some mistakes. That's the tennis.   
  
  Q. You do play some remarkable tennis when you're breakpoints down. You seem to reserve some of your best play for when you're in the biggest trouble.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, I didn't preserve nothing, no? Yeah, I did well when I had breakpoints against.   
  
  Q. Does it concentrate the mind, do you think?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Maybe. Maybe. I think that the big difference is I played more aggressive in that moments. So that's what I have to try to do during all the match for tomorrow: play more aggressive.   
 Today I played two or three meters behind the baseline, so I have to play more inside if I want to play a little bit better, no? That's the thing. The only thing and the most important thing for me right now.   
  
  Q. It depends you play Fernando?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, he has a big topspin and big shots, but in the end, it's an attitude. It's okay return four meters behind, because he had very good kick and topspin was very high.   
 But after return, I have to go inside and I have to play a long return, and the next ball I have to play inside, from the baseline, or one meter behind, not another time three meters. That was the mistake of today.   
 Normally I return three meter, but after I go inside, and today I didn't.   
  
  Q. It's more difficult to play against a left-hander?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: No. No, that's not excuse, no? Only excuse is I had to do anyway. If it's lefty, righty, doesn't matter.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT