BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 22, 2009
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/A. Murray
  6-1, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How difficult was it? Maybe it wasn't difficult at all. I don't know. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, well, always it's tough, no? The conditions today was really difficult. But, you know, I think I have good strategy and I played a really good match with those conditions, no? 
 Probably Andy didn't play his best because of the conditions, but I think I played a really complete match, moving very well. I never stop the legs during all the match, and I think that was the key all today, no? 

 Q. Did you get the sense that he let the conditions dictate to him and you did not let the conditions dictate to you? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, maybe. I don't know if I was a little bit more prepared than him today to play with these conditions. Maybe I think I accept a little bit better than him that conditions today. 
 Maybe I was a little bit with more positive attitude than him during the match, and last two days, that's decisive, no? I think I moved and I played a little bit more in the middle the court, more aggressive, moving a little bit more than him. 
 And I change with something like this, backhand sometimes trying to put low balls, because with this wind it's really tough to play, to play -- to have winners. 
 So I think I played very good today.

 Q. Were these the toughest conditions you've played in, or has there been somewhere that's been worse?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, I played at Wimbledon 2006 or 2007, I don't know, because -- 2007, I think. Yeah, 2007. Quarterfinals against Berdych. Unbelievable wind. Amazing. 

 Q. Centre Court? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Centre Court, yeah, amazing. In Benidorm two weeks ago, amazing, too. We practiced one day and -- well, worse than today. Yeah, I had some matches with the wind, no? 

 Q. You said you felt you had good strategy today to deal with the conditions, what was the strategy to deal with the conditions?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I explain a little bit more later, no? The good strategy I think because I was playing inside the court. I go to the net sometimes, and, well, I never stop the legs. So that's the strategy, no? Try to move all the time. 
 When there is a lot of wind, I think the important thing is you don't to have find the shots close to the line. I think that the thing is you have to put balls inside, trying to play hard with good rhythm, but in the middle. Not in the middle, but to the sides, not close to the lines, no? 

 Q. Do you feel that the Nalbandian match helped you find a new momentum? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah. No. (Laughter.)
No, no, I don't think so, no.

 Q. You don't feel mentally stronger after that match? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, I was playing okay. Yeah, I won first round playing very well against Berrer, and second round against who?

 Q. Tursunov. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Tursunov. Well, no. 
 But later against Nalbandian I played, well, bad. But, well, when you save five match points, it's like you start another tournament, no? 
 But I was practicing really well during all the week. I think some of the moments this week I practiced better than what I played, which is strange on me. 
 But, yeah, I think that's happening this week, no? 

 Q. I know you've answered this before, but why would you think winning the Grand Slam would be almost impossible, given that you've won Roland Garros four times and Wimbledon, the Australian on hard courts. You've won this twice. Is it because the year is so long, or are you just being modest that you think it's impossible for anybody? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I gonna answer another time the same, no? I think when you start the tournament, you start from the first round. When I go to the tournament, I play first round and I don't know if I gonna win. 
 You never know what's going on in two months, in five months, in seven months. So it's very difficult to play during all the year at the same level, your best level. 
 Anyway, if I am playing at my best level, if Murray has a good day, he has a good chance to beat me or Federer or Djokovic or a lot of players. 
 So every tournament is really tough. And you are thinking a Grand Slam. Maybe it's tougher, too. Playing five sets maybe help a little bit the top players to have the better results because you have, well, more time. 
 But anyway, it's almost impossible. That's my feeling. I would love to have the Grand Slam. My feeling, is yeah, almost impossible.

 Q. You've been playing so well here, Davis Cup, Australia, wins over the top players. What are the one or two elements in your game that are really helping you play so well and have so many victories this season? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, I don't know, no? I think I -- yeah, I played very well last year. I had a great result last year on this surface, too. 
 Yeah, in Australia the conditions is okay. It's good for me, good conditions. And here too, no? I think it's hot. The bounce of the ball is a little bit high, so that's help me. No? 
 I had a very good result for the last five years here or -- yeah, four or five years here.

 Q. Anything in your game that you think you're really improving? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I think I have more options to do. I can do more things than before. I can change the rhythm with one slice backhand like today. 
 I am serving okay. In some moments against Nalbandian in the match points, I served very well. 
 Yeah, when I am playing good, I can play more inside than before, no? I think that before, to win every match, I had to run much more than right now, no? Right now I have more times the control of the point than before. 

 Q. Because Andy had beaten you twice before, was it even more satisfying to get this win so it didn't become -- you know how players sometimes build up momentum. Was that satisfying for you, as well, this win?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, it's important. Andy was the only big top player like I didn't won this year, so yeah. It was important -- it's important win for me, no? 
 But anyway, the most important thing for me is win the title, any way, the opponent in the final, no? 

 Q. You seem to play every point as if it were an adventure, like something new and fun. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't think so. (Laughter.)
 No, no, no. I think I'm a serious player.

 Q. I didn't mean you're not serious. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, I think my game is serious, like one time I go to the net. I think I play really similar points.
 I try to have the control of the point with the forehand. That's the normal point on me. Serve, I have the control of the point on the forehand. Not one time go to the net, and another time, dropshot. 
 It's not like an adventure. That's my feeling. I don't know what you're saying.

 Q. You seem to be playing very well right now. Are there any areas of your game that you need improvement, or are there any special areas that you're looking at to improve right now?
 RAFAEL NADAL: You're asking every day to improve, and I would love to continuing to improve all my life. I'm trying to improve always. 
 But, you know, improve, if you watch me yesterday, what I improve from yesterday to today, I didn't improve nothing. That's the true. 
 Every day, asked the same question, and I answer the same question. Sure, I would love to continue improve the serve, the volley, the winner, play more inside the court and more aggressive. But that's a process. I think I improve it for the last few years, but I have to continuing improve. 

 Q. You mentioned on the court this is one of your favorite places to come on the tour. Why is that so?
 RAFAEL NADAL: It's a really calm tournament. It's, I think, nice place. I like to play golf. (Laughter.)
 Yeah, I think everything is easy, you know. The hotel are close to the club. Everything is easy here, so I like that. 

 Q. How much time do you give yourself to enjoy a win like this? Is it just a night, or do you think about it? Or it's just straight back to work for Miami next week?
 RAFAEL NADAL: To enjoy, no, I gonna fly tonight to Miami. Yeah, no, no. 
 Well, sure, I'm very happy to win here. I'm really happy. It's important victory for me. 
 But yeah, I said in one interview on court, no? The good thing of tennis is when lose you have another chance next week. The bad thing is when you win, next Tuesday you are like this another time. 
 So most of the times you don't have enough time to enjoy the victories, yeah.

 Q. On your clay court schedule, did you consider maybe not playing four tournaments going into Roland Garros and not playing Barcelona or something like that? Maybe not playing Monte-Carlo? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: No. Monte-Carlo, I'm gonna play, yeah. It's one of my favorite tournaments, sure. 
 Yeah, and Barcelona, I am inside. I'm on the list. I think I gonna play. Yeah, I think I gonna play Barcelona, because it's one 500. Can be the only 500 I gonna play on clay. 
 Yeah, I think I have to play. But always depends of your feelings in the moments, no? But normal I gonna play Monte-Carlo, Rome, Barcelona, and later we will see.

 Q. Are your fingers blistered?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No. But if I don't put the tape, after one hour, yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT