BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2009
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Would you mind talking about your decision to play doubles in this tournament, and how often do you play doubles?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Not much. I like to play doubles, but normally it's tough to combine doubles and singles. But here, you know, it's two weeks tournament and you have more days off during the tournament, and, well, especially for to practice a little bit. 
 And at the same time, I don't know, I play with a good friend. I enjoy playing with a good friend of mine. The season is very long, and if you have more matches it's easier and going to be very good.

 Q. As a follow-up, your next round it's the Bryans, but there's a chance you might play Roger in doubles. Can you kind of talk about the process of meeting Roger in doubles rather than singles, and have you ever played against him in doubles?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, I played against him. I played against him in doubles, too.

 Q. How did that go?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, we won. Moya and me won two times. We played here with Robredo a long time ago. We played against him in Rome, 2007, I think, too, 2007.
 Anyway, going to be tough, very tough.

 Q. Now that you're No. 1 in the world, a lot of companies are going to be interested in sponsoring you. Is that very important for you? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: What? Can you repeat? 

 Q. Now that you're No. 1 in the world, I can imagine a lot of people want to sponsor you and promote their brand. Is that very important for you, sponsors?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Sure, important, no? We don't have the sponsors we can't have one tournament like this. For me, just can say thank you very much all the sponsors are interested in me. Always is important for me.

 Q. I looked on your website, I think you have seven or eight sponsors right now. Do you think that's enough, or do you want to become a big global name, like David Beckham or Tiger Woods?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, I am a tennis player. For me, it's very, very important. But at the same time, I want to have time, enough time for to practice and to continuing to improve my tennis. 
 I have as much as seven sponsors, but when you have too much you have too many days of work, so...

 Q. So what you have right now is enough?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, you never know. (laughter.) You never know. 

 Q. Is there any aspect of your game that you're still working on? I mean, you're No. 1. You've won so many tournaments. Is there any aspect you're working on?
 RAFAEL NADAL: In all. I always work on all aspects. Sure, I'm trying to play a little bit more aggressive, but all the time I try the same. Always is the same, no? Play more aggressive, serve a little bit better, be more complete player. If you can slice, you have another option. If you can go to the net, it's another option to do. 
 In the end, when you have more options to do, you have (Translated from Spanish.)
THE MODERATOR: You have more options, more resources. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: More resources. It's tough, no, when you have tough matches. That's really important. 

 Q. One year ago you told us here that you are a fair No. 2 behind Roger. Roger was No. 1, and you considered that as fair in the rankings. Then you have won in Wimbledon, now in Australia, and Federer told us yesterday or the other the day before that he felt that the momentum changed when you beat him so clearly at the French Open. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know, no? I think it's not only one match. But at the same time, my feeling didn't change too much, being No. 2 or No. 1. My goal is still the same. No. 1 was an important goal at that moment, and I did. My goal was finish the year with No. 1. I did, so now my goal gonna be improve my tennis. 
 Sure, if I can continue to be No. 1 it will be very nice. But my goal is be better player for all the tournaments, no?

 Q. How important was that French Open final when you beat him so easy?
 RAFAEL NADAL: For me, doesn't matter, easy or tough. When you are talking about one final of Grand Slam, important thing is have the trophy at home. It's nice to have the trophy rather than have the plate. 
 I know that, and win 9-6 in the fifth and win 6-3, 6-2, is the same, no?

 Q. You had a very busy weekend in Davis Cup, and a long flight here. How are you coping with jet lag? Have you been waking up early?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Today, no. First day not. First two days. I return Tuesday night, and I waked up too early, 4:15. 

 Q. What did you do? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: My coach did the same, Francis. You know, it was funny because we are in a bungalow and we have a Jacuzzi outside. We go outside. I go with the towel and I saw him inside. (laughter.) Later play golf when the sun is coming.

 Q. It's been 40 years since Rod Laver won the Grand Slam, and I just wanted to get your thoughts about how difficult it is to win the Grand Slam. And was there someone in the past you thought could or should have won the Grand Slam? And then finally, what do you think about your chances of some day completing the Grand Slam? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Complete the Grand Slam, four in a row? 

 Q. Yeah, four in a row. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Always is very difficult. Everything is very difficult. What Rod Laver did was amazing. But at the same time was a little bit easier in that moment than right now, because in that moment I think they only have two different surfaces. Now we have three. Australia and US Open are not exactly the same. But anyway, we have three right now.
 My chances is (holding fingers apart) really small. (Laughter.) For that reason I didn't think of that. For sure I only think about Indian Wells. That's important, important goal for me.

 Q. But is it fair for you to entertain completing a Grand Slam goal for yourself, because you have won on all three surfaces and you're only 22. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: US Open is a big goal right now. I would love to have that, the fourth. But I know how tough is everything, and I'm happy with my results. 
 Sure, I gonna be continuing working, but win every tournament, it's very tough. And if you are talking about the Grand Slam more. So just continue more with how I'm gonna play well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT