AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2009
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/T. Haas
  6-4, 6-2, 6-2

 Q. Can you play any better than that? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, always you can improve, no? Perfect matches doesn't exist. But today, especially after a few games, after the first three, four games, I started to play well. In the beginning, I was playing too short little bit. And Tommy has the control of the points on the court. But that change after the beginning of the match. 
 For that reason, I have the victory, no? I play more inside the court with the forehand. Improving a little bit more with the backhand, too. Very happy to be in fourth round for another year. 

 Q. Do you think you're playing better at this stage this year than the same stage last year? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I never compared year by year, no? I don't like the comparisons. Last year, I played the semifinals here. Was a very good result for the start of the season. Right now, I am in fourth round. For sure the toughest matches still to come. 
 Against González, this match going to be a very tough match. He's coming with big confidence after two big wins against Hewitt the first round, and right now against Gasquet with unbelievable comeback, two sets down. He's coming with confidence. Going to be a very tough opponent. 

 Q. Do you think you owe him a victory here after he beat you easily two years ago?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, he beat me very easy two years ago here. So it wasn't play one of my best matches. He played well. 
 Well, he's tough. He's very good player. He can beat me, for sure, another time. Hopefully not. But I gonna try my best for try to change the situation from two years, for try to play the same level like last year in Olympics. 

 Q. How much of a factor do you think it is that he had so long on court tonight, whereas you've been very quick with the matches you had?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Hopefully affect a lot (smiling). But I think that's not gonna happen, no? He didn't play with the sun, with the hot. That's gonna be important factor. 
 And, well, for sure he going to be a little bit more tired. But he's very strong, no? He's very strong player physically. The same time he going to be with more confidence than ever, no, because he beat against big player like Richard, and he had a very good comeback. So that's very important for the confidence. 

 Q. Does that come into your strategy, to run him around early?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Doesn't matter. I never think about that, no? I only think about try to play my game, try to play aggressive with my forehand, and try to be very concentrate with the serve, no? 

 Q. How did you find the conditions out there tonight?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Very good, no? No wind. That's always easier for play. Very good atmosphere. So, very happy for everything, no? The crowd support was always there supporting me. So that's very nice when you come on court and feel the support of the crowd. So can say thanks very much to all the Australian people, no? 

 Q. After your results last year, after becoming world No. 1, how motivated are you to show what you're capable of at this tournament?
 RAFAEL NADAL: The same motivation like every year. Every year when I came here, I came with my best motivation, try my best all the time. This year I gonna try the same, so... One number don't change motivation, no? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT