AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 1, 2009
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/R. Federer
  7-5, 3-6, 7-6, 3-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Number six Grand Slam. How special is that one for you?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, very special, no, for me. Is a dream win here, one Grand Slam on hard court. I worked very hard the last -- well, all my life for improve the tennis outside courts, well, outside of clay.  
 Very happy, no? Very happy for the title. Today was really lot of emotions on court. I was there with the best player I ever saw, like is Roger.   
 My uncle always told me Rod Laver was the best because he win two times the Grand Slam, the whole Grand Slam, the four in a row, and for like six or seven years he didn't play. So for that reason he can be.   
 Everything was very special. Sorry was tough moment for Rog today. I know how tough must be there in important situation from him. But, you know, no, he's a great champion. He's the best. And he's, for sure, very important person for our sport, no?   
 So sorry for him, but at the same time congratulate him for everything.   
  
  Q. How much trouble were you in in the third set when you had the treatment? How did you feel then?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: I end the match against Verdasco with the leg - right leg - the quadriceps and hamstring very tight. In the third set started to pushing, no? No cramping, but was scarey, no?   
 Well, I just ask for the trainer. Thank you very much to Paul, the trainer. Well, I didn't want to take the three minutes because I thought if the match is longer, I gonna take the three minutes later. I just want to make sure have the time for later if I need. Just put some cream, try to relax a little bit. That's it.  
  
  Q. Did it go away completely?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, no. Was there, no? But, well, that doesn't affect.   
  
  Q. Is there an explanation for the second serve where you seemed to have a little trouble?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Trouble? For what reason?   
  
  Q. It's softer maybe than usual.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Softer?   
  
  Q. Some double-faults.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Double-faults? How many?   
  
  Q. Four.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Four in four hours and a half I think is not bad.   
 No, no. Well, I understand your point. Well, maybe I have to try to put the ball little bit to the side more than the speed, no? Because if Roger touch the ball with the forehand, the return with the second serve, he gonna kill me, no?   
 So I just tried to put the ball on the backhand so I have a little bit more control with less speed. But, anyway, I didn't have the control of that, for sure.  
  
  Q. How does this compare to the first Roland Garros and Wimbledon?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, is different, no? Maybe, well, is the first Grand Slam on hard, so that makes very special. But at the same time, I didn't have time yet for enjoy the title because I am too tired, no? I went to the locker room and I was dizzy.   
 So was very happy, but the same time tough, no?   
  
  Q. Everybody is talking about the record of Pete Sampras, Roger coming near to it. You have now won Grand Slams on all kinds of surfaces and you're 22 years old. How far can you go, compared to these guys and records?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, I have six right now, no? Happy with my six. Well, for sure I gonna continuing my best try every day for improve my tennis and for try to continuing win matches and titles.   
 But I know is very difficult, everything, no? Every title, I know how tough is win every one. I don't know if I gonna win more, but for sure I gonna continuing try. But, you know, when I won my first one I didn't know if I gonna be win more.   
 You never know when that stop. So you have to be always with precaution and you have to be humble for continuing work like all my life, no?   
  
  Q. What do you think made the difference at the end of the match? Was it more a physical battle or a mental battle?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know, no. I think he had more mistakes than me in the fifth. I was more solid than Roger on the fifth. For that reason I won the match, no?   
 In the game when I had the first break, he has one mistake with the important -- important mistake with the backhand on the breakpoint. That was very important for me.   
  
  Q. You saved 13 breakpoints. I mentioned it to Federer. He said, I wish I was a lefty. Do you think it's an advantage to be a lefty? Also, have you ever wished to be right-handed in some situations?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, I happy with myself, no (smiling)? Is okay.   
  
  Q. The first part?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: The first part? Well, depends against who you play. I think for play against Roger is a little bit easier if you are lefty, no, because if you are righty, is very tough to play against his forehand all the time. Well, against his backhand is very tough, too. But, well, al menos you have the forehand, no?   
  
  Q. After the victory of Wimbledon last year and after the victory of the hard court now, I guess you proved yourself as a true king from this moment. How do you think about that?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Can you repeat the last thing only?   
  
  Q. You proved yourself as a true king.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Oh, no, no. Well, the true, no. I don't know. I just win for sure an important title for my careera. But I no better five hours before than now, no? That's the true, no?   
 When you win an important match, but you have to know before the match who you are and after the match you have to know who you are, too. You are the same, no?   
  
  Q. What did Rod Laver say to you out on the court?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, he told me the first four sets was amazing rhythm. He just congratulated me. And, well, he told me was very good fight, especially after the semifinals. Was very tough confrontation. And, well, he congratulated me.   
 He said, well, 15,000 people here and nobody left after 10 minutes in the final. I asked him how many people was on court when he played here.   
  
  Q. Have you ever spoken to him before?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, I think one or two times.   
  
  Q. Were you worried the toll of the game on Friday would have on you today, or did you believe you were fit?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yes, little bit, no. Little bit tired. I was little bit worried about the physical performance because I practiced and was tough to keep the concentration, no?   
 But I spoke with the coach, before all the match, with Toni. He told me, Anyway, you go there and fight all the time and believe on the victory all the time. I think that's what I did in the end. Was good.   
  
  Q. You played Roger so many times. What did he do well against you today and what did he do not as well?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, I think he played inside, especially in some moments with the backhand, trying to put the ball -- well, go inside the court with the backhand. So that's was tough for me, no?   
 Well, the worse thing, the fifth set, maybe he had more mistakes than usual.  
  
  Q. Did you worry at all about the new clothes? Did you worry about being able to win with the new clothes?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I was completely worried about that (smiling). I thought I lost the power with the new (laughter). C'mon.   
  
  Q. Do you plan to offer him a revenge at the PlayStation?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Not yet. I have to practice more.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT