AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2009
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/R. Karanusic
  6-2, 6-3, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You've only dropped 11 games in two matches. How do you assess your form to this stage? You must be happy.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yes, I am happy, no? Sure, I played before first round, second round. But, anyway, was a good result today. The other guy play very, I think, irregular. Sometimes play well, sometimes he had some mistakes. So was tough match for get the rhythm.   
 But the result is good. I think I won without problems, no?   
  
  Q. Last year you led the tour with wins on hard courts. Does that give you confidence in thinking you can win a Grand Slam on a hard court, as you've done on grass and clay?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, I gonna try, no? For sure I think when you think you win in Toronto, you win in Olympics, I have Montréal, I have Madrid, I have Indian Wells in this kind of surface. When you have these tournaments playing against the best players of the world, because in these tournaments are the best players of the world. Why you can't win a Grand Slam in hard court, no?   
 I always try. Trying to improve always in this surface. Hopefully in this year have a chance for win here or for win in the US Open.   
  
  Q. Do you think here or the US Open favors your game, one or the other, better?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: The thing is play good. If I am playing good, I think I gonna have my chances for have a good result in both.   
  
  Q. One thing you've changed is your forehand here. It seems to be a lot flatter. Is that something you've really focused on?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, not true. I didn't know nothing about that (laughter). First new.   
  
  Q. Does anything set Melbourne apart for you, make it seem different to you?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Is very good city, no? I think is a calm city, big city, but at the same time calm. Problems with my English, no? Calm? No. I think you understand more than my secretary (laughter).   
 No, I really enjoy the city. Is clean, very clean city. So that's good, no? One of the favorite cities for me I think.   
  
  Q. You would have wanted to have played both in Shanghai and in the Davis Cup final last year. But do you think perhaps having missed those two events you are better prepared, it's given you a bit of time perhaps?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know. I don't know really. I had time in December for practice - more than in other years. But other years the result were very good, too, no? I hope continues with the same results.   
 I don't know if gonna be good. I think for some aspects can be good. For some other ones, is a little bit worse. Can be good because you didn't play, you have more time for practice, you have more time for recover mentally from the long season like last year. But at the same time I was more time than the rest outside of competition. So this is a little bit tougher get the rhythm another time.   
 Anyway, watching the positive thing, I hope if is not here can help me for the season.   
  
  Q. Could you tell us in more than one word how Mauritius was?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: It was well. I was there -- well, we were there for one week. Yes, was very nice place. I don't know. The people was very nice with me there. I had some activities. I enjoyed a lot. Hope to come back.   
  
  Q. Tommy Haas in the next round. It's going to be a hard match for you.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yes, going to be the first big opponent I think. Right now, well, gonna be a very good test for see how I am. I going to have to play very well if I want have chances to win, no? I think he won today very easy. So when one player win easy, is good news. Seems he's playing well. I have to play well if I want to win.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about Albert Costa coming in as the new Davis Cup captain, what you think he brings to the job, good things or bad things.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, always is good to have a player being a captain. Especially Albert, I think he has a very good relationship with all the players. I was playing the same time with him. I know him, I think. He always was a team player. Right now for me is the best captain we can have, no?   
  
  Q. Do you think he has a lot of pressure? Obviously, Emilio has done quite well with the team.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, Emilio won, and the lost the first three years. So doesn't matter, no? The thing is be there, win or lose is another thing. Doesn't depend only the captain. The captain is more. But I think the captain is more important for have a good atmosphere on the team. I don't know. The important thing for me in the captain is have a captain --  
 THE INTERPRETER: That he makes a good atmosphere on the team so that people want to go and play Davis Cup.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: That's more important thing because in the end is not like a football team, then you play, no?   
  
  Q. There's a lot of interest in your new outfits. Some of your fans on the websites don't seem to like them too much, your clothes. Do you like the change of image?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: What happened? The fans didn't like?   
  
  Q. Some of them don't.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Sorry (laughter). I don't know.   
 No, I am feeling okay. I am feeling well. For sure, when you have a change, some people like, other people don't like. For sure with the sleeveless, not everybody like the sleeveless. Right now gonna be the same, no?   
 But, anyway, is a change. But I feel good like this. Important thing in the end is not the clothes; is the ball and racquet and play well.   
  
  Q. Tommy Haas is coming back from an injury. How much do you know about his history, his story, his shoulder problems, all that kind of stuff? Did you follow that? Are you aware of it?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, I know him for a long time, no? I played a lot of matches. A lot. I don't know if a lot. But I played some matches against him.   
 He had important injuries in his career. That's tough for a big player like him. He had very good result. He had for two years outside the court. He came back and he start another time playing well. Right now he had -- well, last year he had another time some problems, but is coming back.   
 Look, he's in third round another time. So he's a very good player. Always for everybody is tough, dangerous. When he came back, always he's there, no?   
  
  Q. Is there something special you have to fear about his game?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, I think he's a very complete player. He can play slice, good backhand, good forehand. He can go to the volley. He have a good serve. No, he can do everything. If I want to win, I have to put more rhythm and intensity than him.   
  
  Q. You have many fans in Australia. You see Rafa on the T-shirts. Does that help you make you more relaxed when you go on the court, thinking that a lot of them are on your side?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Not more relaxed, no. That's always nice have the crowd with you. Just can say thank you very much everybody, no?   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT