XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 17, 2008
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. NADAL/F. González
6-3, 7-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Now that it's over and you've added the Olympic gold medal to a year that seems to be getting better and better for you, can you talk a little bit about how the Olympics, playing here, the travel, playing the entire week, how that may or may not affect what's ahead now in the next couple of weeks going to New York? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, right now I think is not the moment for thinking New York, no? Now is the moment for enjoy this moment because I am having unbelievable year. So is more than -- nowhere in my best dreams I can imagine something like what I did this year, so I want to enjoy these moments, no? 
 I know how difficult is win these things, and especially here, because you only have one chance every four years. And win here for me is, well, unbelievable, no? Just can say thank you very much all my team for supporting me all the time. Thank you very much all the athletes in the village, because I spend a fantastic time there. 
 I was two weeks here. I arrived very tired after flying directly from Cincinnati to here. And the reason probably what I won -- the reason for I won this title is because I have a fantastic time here enjoying a lot in the village. Thank you very much all the Spanish athletes for coming every day to supporting me. So that's was amazing experience for me, no? 

 Q. The second set tiebreaker, it seemed to change the match. You raised your level up. Was that the key for you? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, for sure, when you win the tiebreak, especially when you are two sets up, everything is a little bit easier later, no? Especially because he lost a chance in the second with two set points. I played a very good tiebreak. That was decisive in the match. 
 And finally in the third set, I have a little bit more chances for have another break, but I didn't. So finally I won with one break. 
 But I think I played almost perfect match, no? 

 Q. I think to be No. 1 in the world, to win Paris, to win Wimbledon, to win the Olympic Games are different feelings? Are they all the same feeling? Can you express something different for each of these four different incredible results you had? Can you try?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, everything is different feeling. But, you know, win here is more than -- the feeling is a little bit more special, no, because I know in the tennis, the Grand Slams are a little bit more important than here. But here you only have one chance every four years, no? 
 Probably for the tennis player are a little bit more the slams. But for sportsmen, the Olympic Games are more important than everything. 
 I don't know what different feelings I can express. The thing is, win here, I feel like I win for all the country. That's more special, no? I win for a lot of people, not only for me. 

 Q. Tomorrow you're going to wake up with a gold medal by your side and also being ranked No. 1 in the world. What makes you so good right now? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know. I did very well the last few years, too, no? I always try to improve my tennis, try to be better player than before, every month, every month, every year. 
 So finally, probably this year I improve, no? I am having good confidence for play in Wimbledon. I'm having confidence for play on this surface, too, hard. On clay, I had the same results the last few years. I am playing an unbelievable season, no doubt. And I know how difficult is win these things. I have to be very happy for everything, no? 

 Q. You've got a Wimbledon, you've got a golden medal, and tomorrow you're going to be the new No. 1 of the world. How do you plan to celebrate this? When you look back at everything you've done in this year, how do you feel? How would you describe the season and feeling of being the new No. 1 in the world?
 RAFAEL NADAL: The feeling, well, for sure I am very happy for be No. 1. But the feeling doesn't change too much because the last years I did very well, too. I was very happy being the No. 2. So finally I'm No. 1. For sure is a satisfaction, but at the same time I know -- I don't know. I don't have time to celebrate. I play New York in one week. So I want to enjoy that these two days probably, but later I have to be focused on New York. 
 So probably after New York, after Davis Cup, after Davis Cup I'm going to have a good time for celebrate, no (smiling)? 

 Q. Some players said you're the most popular sportsman in the village, signing autographs every minute. How do you feel about it? How do you like it?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know, no? I was there. I feel the same like every other athlete. And I think they feel the same like me, no? They feels like me. 
 I did some photos. I did some autographs. But always was a pleasure, no, because I did with another sport man. That's always a very good feeling, have a photo with another sport man like me, no? 

 Q. To be a successful athlete there are four factors. Number one, talent. Number two, coach. Number three, opportunity. Number four, hard work. So to become as successful as you are, what percentage would you allocate to each of the factors? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know, no (smiling)? Some things probably is coming because the things are coming. But for the rest of the things is important, have a good work, no, have a good peoples around you for give you a good work. I think I had a very good people around me, and I think I have in the present, too, no? 
 So for that reason I think I am here right now. The percentage I think is impossible to calculate. 

 Q. Do you think it's possible to be a different pressure being No. 1 instead of No. 2, as you're trying to hold on to something instead of going after something? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Different pression? No, I don't think so. I say for me, doesn't change too much two weeks ago and right now. The pression is the same because I will be No. 1 tomorrow, but at the same time I want to continuing win the same titles like when I was No. 2. I want to continuing be in the top positions like I was when I was No. 2. Probably I'm going to be No. 2 another time in a few months. 
 You never know, no? I think the pression doesn't change. 

 Q. Do you think you can improve your game? If yes, what can you improve? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Always you can improve, no? If Federer can improve, me for sure. For sure I can improve the slice; I can improve the serve a hundred percent. I can and I must improve my serve, no? I have to improve a little bit more the volley, too. And the rest of the things, for sure I have to continuing improve. 
 I'm happy, but always you can play a little bit more inside the court, you can play a little bit more long, you can play a little bit more close to the lines. Everything can improve always, no? Important is be with good humble for continuing try improve, no? 

 Q. You got huge crowd support today and all of your matches here in Beijing. How big was it for you to have the crowd behind you?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Always is very important have the crowd behind you, no? Here the crowd was very nice with me all the time. The Chinese public, too. Especially to the athletes who comes from the village for supporting me, the Spanish athletes. That's always a pleasure. I just can say thank you to the Chinese fans and especially the athletes, too, no?

 Q. Do you think the No. 1 player of the world takes some responsibility to contribute to developing the game in the underdeveloped part of the world, for instance, Bangladesh? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, if Bangladesh want to do something with me. 

 Q. I'm not saying only Bangladesh. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, you know my English is not perfect, so is difficult to express something like this for me, no? 
 I say, if I can help with something to Bangladesh, the people just have to tell me and it's gonna be a pleasure for me always. 

 Q. When you switched on your telephone, who did you speak to first? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I only spoke with my uncle and coach, no? 

 Q. There was some concern this summer about how condensed your schedule was because of the Olympics. Is it worth it now? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Not only for the Olympics. 

 Q. Spain has had an incredible summer with the Euro, the Tour de France. Can you say how proud you are of your country. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: We must be very happy, no? We win a lot of important titles in the last month - the last few years, too. We have very good sportsmen in Formula One, in Moto, tennis, football, cycling, too. In everything. In golf we have a good talents, too, good golf players. With a lot more things we are in the top positions of the world, no? 
 So Spain is a big country, but not the same like another ones, and we are in the top positions, so we have to be very happy for these things, no? We know how tough is be in the top positions on everything, and in sports, too. So we have a good -- I forgot one very important: basketball. 

 Q. What would you say was your favorite moment of the Beijing Olympics? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Favorite moment? Every day was different, no? So every day was a special moments. I lived special moments in the village. I don't know. I was knowing a lot of people here in the village, and always was a pleasure know new people, no? Sometimes you see some athletes, all athletes of the world, but especially Spain on TV, and finally you know. So that's always a pleasure. 
 I enjoy a lot - more than a normal tournament. Is totally different experience. I love that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT