U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2008
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  R. NADAL/V. Troicki  
6-4, 6-3, 6-0  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. Just real quick, what's the last book you read and the kind of car you drive?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: (Through translation.)   
 The Firm. It's one film. And the car, I have sponsor with Kia, so I drive very good Kia.   
  
  Q. What do you know about Sam Querrey? You played him two years ago in Cincinnati.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, a lot of things change in these two years, no? He wasn't play a lot in that moment, so right now he's a very good player with big potential and big serves having very about results. Going to be a very tough match, no?   
 I know I have to play very well if I want to win.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the passing shot that got you to the break in the second set? Do you really feel the momentum shifted at that point to your side?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah. The first or the second? In the 3-2 or 4-3?   
  
  Q. The second set the passing shot.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yes, but there was two. One with backhand and one forehand. The first one I think was most important because he give me the break back, so it was very important for my confidence.  
 Because in that moment he was serving well and was difficult, no? But after this, I started playing better, and he had some mistakes and finally I won, no?   
  
  Q. Are you more comfortable here on this court now than you have been before?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Never know, no? Happy about how I play today. I play a consistent match, so happy for the victory and especially happy for be in third round another year, no?   
  
  Q. What did change with you receiving his serve? I mean, you broke him. He was serving well initially. I think you broke him six of his last eight?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, you know, the tennis is like this. The match is long, and you start, you are fresh, but when the match is coming you start to be a little bit more tired, no?   
 But anyway, he's a very good player and he has a very good serve. Well, if he can serve all the time like the beginning he's very dangerous, no?   
  
  Q. Switching from night matches to day matches back and forth, is that any problem? Is there a change in your game or change in the background, looking at the opponent?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: No. Doesn't matter, no?   
 Well, for me is a little bit -- I prefer a little bit more play during the day for the -- because if you win, later you have one afternoon and one day off, and when you play during the night you can finish very late.   
 But doesn't matter, no?   
  
  Q. What are you going to do in New York on a Saturday night? Going to catch the Blake/Fish match, enjoy yourself in Manhattan?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Nothing special. I'm playing the tournament, so I just going to go for dinner and later come back to the room. I watch some movie or watch a little bit to of tennis.  
  
  Q. Any predictions for the Blake/Fish match tonight?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: No predictions. It's tennis. It is very difficult to say something.   
  
  Q. How far are you from your best level, especially in terms of intensity?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, you know, I am start playing better. No, today I play better than the last days. Anyway, he has -- he had a lot of mistakes last night. I started playing well and today I serve well, no? I served very well.   
 The true, I was practicing much better yesterday and before yesterday than the beginning days, no? So that's give my more confidence.   
 You know, I am in fourth round right now, and I hope continuing improve my tennis for the fourth round, no? I think I am ready for try to play a good match on fourth round. I know I have to play a good match if I want to win.   
  
  Q. You've had the fans really cheering you this year on your very excellent year. What's it going to be like to be playing against an underdog who's a hometown favorite? Does that actually help you when they're not cheering for you, or do you even notice?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: The crowd is always very nice with me when I play against one American. But doesn't matter, no?   
 I think the crowd was always very respectus of me, and going to be the same for the next match. I understand perfectly the crowd support Sam. He's from United States, and for that reason the crowd going to be with him, no? But I think going to be with him, not against me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT