XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 15, 2008
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  R. NADAL/N. Djokovic  
6-4, 1-6, 6-4  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Having won Roland Garros and Wimbledon, how does getting to the Olympic final and getting a medal rank?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, for me is a dream have be in this final, no? When I arrived here, I didn't expect for sure be in this final. I arrived very tired, with a lot of matches in my shoulders, without play my best tennis, no?   
 But when the week is coming, I felt better and better, no? So today was very important day, having won. If I lose the final, I gonna have one medal for me and for my country. That's always more special. Very happy for have this experience in my life, no?   
  
  Q. How does it compare to Wimbledon and Roland Garros?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, for us, you know, the Grand Slams is a little bit more than Olympics, no? The tennis is like this.   
 But for me, after Grand Slams, I said in the past this year a lot of times, so after the four Grand Slams for me, the Olympics is the more important thing, no?   
  
  Q. You seem to be in a position now where you have a lot of matches, but things turn out okay for you. What is it like being on this kind of a roll? Are you at the point where you expect to win pretty much all your matches?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I didn't expect to win every match, no? When I go on court, I only expect try my best and later we will see what's happen. I know I can lose every match. The level in tennis is always very close and the match a lot of times is deciding in a few points.   
 So anything can happen.   
  
  Q. Becoming the No. 1 player in the world, did you have a formal plan set out to do that? When did the process start of becoming No. 1?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: For sure not, no. I only try my best every time, in every practice, in every match. You are No. 1 or you are not No. 1, no? You don't have a plan for be No. 1 because is impossible something like this.   
  
  Q. Can you look ahead to the final and playing González?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I know going to be a very tough match, no? He's playing well. He was beating unbelievable match today against James. He beat against Mathieu yesterday. So they are very tough opponents. He's playing very well, serving very well, unbelievable forehand, playing aggressive with the backhand, too, sometimes. I know I have to play very well if I want to win on Sunday, no? I gonna try.   
  
  Q. You played Novak a few times and he's beaten you before. Did you think the quality of his play tonight was as good as he'd ever played against you?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: We had a lot of good matches, no? We played an unbelievable match this year in Hamburg. We played a very good match in Queen's, too. Last week in the second set was a good quality of tennis, too.   
 He's very good, no? He's a very good player. He's having an unbelievable season. Just I can congratulate him because he's doing very well, no?   
  
  Q. Just now on the court, did you hear the Chinese fans cheering for you? Did you understand, Nadal, go, go, go? Now that you have been staying in Beijing for quite some time, are you used to Beijing? Did you have any Chinese food? What is your favorite one? Can you say something in Chinese?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: The last thing is too much. No, is my second time here in Beijing. I was a lot of times here in China, too. In Shanghai, playing the Masters Cup. So the Chinese fans are always very nice with me, no? I just can say thank you very much to the Chinese fans, Chinese crowd supporting me a lot.   
 Yes, I understand, Go, go, go (smiling).   
  
  Q. What is your feeling about the Olympics and how does it compare with the other tournaments you play?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: You love having comparation (sic) with the Grand Slam. Is different tournament. I said before, for the tennis, that the slams are a little bit more important. But after a slam, Olympics are the most important thing in my opinion. But, you know, everyone have different goals. Not for every player is the same important the things, no?   
 So be in this final for me is very important. Have a medal, well, is a very important thing after my season because I'm having unbelievable season. So continuing have a good tournament here, having a medal is unbelievable feeling for me, no?   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT