XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 14, 2008
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  R. NADAL/J. Melzer  
6-0, 6-4  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Talk about your quarterfinal match.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yes, I am playing well, no? Very happy for be in the semifinals. Very happy because I played today very well, no?   
 So that's very important victory for me. Continuing being in the semifinals in another tournament is very good news, no? Still playing maybe my best level.   
  
  Q. How surprised are you by Roger's defeat?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: For sure is a surprise, no? No. 1 of the world lost. But the tennis always is very close, no? The level is very close. The match is decide in a few points a lot of times.   
 Well, sometimes happens something like this. Sorry for him. But, you know, that's the tennis. Everybody lose, no? Disappointing for everybody. I am playing my best careera, my best season in my life. I play 15 tournaments, and I lost in eight. So more than 50% of the times I lost in a tournament. So the tennis is like this.   
  
  Q. You've been comfortable on clay and grass over two or three years. Are you now as comfortable on hard courts in terms of your footwork and general comfort?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know, no? I am happy because I am playing very well. So that's very important for me.   
 But I had very good results in the past on the hard court, too, no? So that's nothing new for me to play good in this surface. But I am playing good. And when I am playing good, I can play good in all surfaces, no?   
  
  Q. In the semifinals you will play Novak Djokovic. What do you expect in that match?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: I expect a very, very tough match, no? I play against the No. 3 player of the world. This year he is the best player on this surface. He had the better results in this surface. So I have to play my best tennis, no? I lost against him one week and a half ago. I know how difficult is play against him.   
 But if I play my best tennis, I beat him sometimes. So I hope play my best tennis and have chances for win.   
  
  Q. Your headband and your wristband. Are you familiar with the Color Orange campaign? It's a protest group. Just wondering, is there any particular choice for that color?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Is the colors of Spain. That's the reason. I don't know nothing. I respect everybody. I never was involved in politic things.   
 I think the bandana and the wristbands is yellow. But when I am sweat, is turn orange. That's not my intention. Nothing of this.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT