WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
July 29, 2008
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Do you think much this week about possibly gaining the top spot in the rankings?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I think about try play good tournament here in Cincinnati for the first time, no? I did quarterfinals one time, so I probably is my worst result in Masters Series tournament, no? 
 Here is the tournament where I always play worst if we think about all the Masters Series. So my goal is improve this result in this Masters Series. 
 I don't know, no? I don't think about the No. 1 because I am the No. 2. If any day I'm No. 1 I going to think about the number 1. 
 Sure, it is a goal, yes. For me, if I am No. 1 any day will be very nice, but right now just my goal is continuing play like I did before, no? 

 Q. Why is Cincinnati difficult for you? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know, no? Probably the last two years, especially because I arrived -- last year I arrived a little bit late from Montreal. I have, well, I have a tired during the match. 
 The year before I played quarterfinals wasn't very bad. The year when I won in Montreal, 2005, I lost unbelievable match against Berdych, no, with match points against, with three match points for me, no? 

 Q. You always talk about how Roger is the No. 1 player and all that kind of stuff. Do you feel the way you've been playing since Hamburg you are the No. 1 player in the world, the best player out there?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I feel I am playing well, no? I am very happy because I played very good tournaments in the last months, no? 
 So very happy about how I am playing. But no sense to feel No. 1 if you are the No. 2, no? 

 Q. What do you think a No. 1 ranking means? What does it mean to be ranked No. 1 or 2?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know, no? I really don't know, no? For sure be No. 1 for your careera is important goal, no, especially when I have 5 Grand Slams already and I have 12 Masters Series, 30 tournaments. So a lot of good results in all the tournaments and I didn't have the No. 1, not yet, no? 
 So if I No. 1 it going to be important title if it's something like this, no? 

 Q. So what's been the biggest area of improvement in your game? Where have you improved most over last year? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know, no? I think I improve a little bit more my game. I am serving a little bit better, but nothing special, no? I think I always try to improve my game. Not just last year from this year. I always improved. 
 Right now I am one year older so I have one more year experience and one more year on tour. Probably that's give me a little bit more confidence, or with the time I can continuing improve, no? But improve the serve, the slice for sure. For the rest, not much.

 Q. Now that you're on the player board, how close have you been following the case between Hamburg and the ATP? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I really don't know what's happening. In my opinion, the important thing, or most important thing, is arrive to settlement with ATP and Hamburg. If ATP arrive settlement with Hamburg, no one -- going to be disaster for no one. 
 That's, I think, the most important thing. Because if Hamburg win going to be disaster for ATP, and if ATP win going to be disaster for Hamburg. 
 So I think Hamburg was important tournament in the past. ATP try to change the status of Hamburg. I think right now ATP has to give something special to Hamburg, no. That's my opinion. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT