WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2008
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. NADAL/R. Federer
6-4, 6-4, 6-7, 6-7, 9-7

 THE MODERATOR: Well, questions for our champion, Rafael Nadal. 

 Q. Two match points missed. Was it becoming a nightmare? Were you really worried about it? Did you think you could still fight till the end?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I didn't miss. He has a very good serve, and another one I have a good serve, good forehand. Because if I hit the forehand to his forehand and he give me a passing shot, impossible to say sorry for myself, no? 
 So I put the ball to the backhand. He had some mistakes during the match in his passing shot with the backhand, but this time he put amazing passing shot. 
 So later when I lost the fourth set I was sitting down, and just say, Well, I am playing well, I am doing well, I am with very good positive attitude, so gonna continue like this and wait, wait what's happening. 
 I feeled (sic) confident with myself, so for that reason I was confident on the match still, no, in the fifth. 
 So just very happy because I played with very positive attitude all the time, fighting a lot. So win here is unbelievable for me. 

 Q. We all know what your emotions were when you lost last year. What are your emotions now on having won this championship? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Impossible to describe, no? I don't know. Just very happy. Is unbelievable for me have a title here in Wimbledon. Is probably -- well, is a dream. I always, when I was a kid, I dream for play here, but for win is amazing, no? 
 For any Spanish player win here is unbelievable. For every player, no, but for the Spanish especially, because we don't have a lot of titles here, and have one is unbelievable. 

 Q. Losing the fourth set tiebreak the way you did, with two match points, could have been very depressing for other players. How did you emotionally deal with that fourth set so you could come out in the fifth and play your best tennis?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, is the final of Wimbledon, so I have to continuing fighting all the time with positive attitude. I am playing well, so why I have to go down, no? I won two sets 6-4, 6-4. 
 I lost two tiebreaks. A little bit unlucky. I played terrible two points with the 5-2 on serve. I accept that. And just first of all accept I played terrible in the 5-2, and later he did very well. 
 So just tried continuing focusing on myself, playing well. If he has a break and beat me the final, so just congratulate him and go at home, no? That's it. 

 Q. Are you tired just a little bit?
 RAFAEL NADAL: A little bit tired, sure. Was a tough day, long day, tough match. At the same time, when you are playing one very important match like today, when you finish, you feel more tired than usual, no? 

 Q. Was that the greatest match you ever played in?
 RAFAEL NADAL: For me the more emotional, yes. I don't know if it's the best. Probably. Probably the best, yes. 

 Q. Is this a bigger achievement than winning the French Open, as you said, due to the history of players from Spain not doing so well here?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, when I won for the first time the French Open was unbelievable, too, no? I don't want to compare the Grand Slams, but Wimbledon is special for everybody, no? Tradition, everything. 
 So for me is more surprise win here than the French. That's it. 

 Q. Many Spanish in the past said that grass is for cows. You have never said that. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I never say that, no. I love play on this surface I said always. When I lost against Muller in 2005 I say the same: I love play on this surface. Sometimes if serves very well is a little bit bored, but normally right now we can play. 
 And if you see the matches are very nice matches, no? Because you have options to do. You can play very aggressive. Sometimes -- well, you can't play very defensive, but can you go to the net. Is interesting game, no? 
 I think you have to understand well the surface if you have to have good results here. 

 Q. What did you say to each other at the end? Could you share with us?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I just say, Good tournament. Sorry. Because I know how tough is lose a final like this. This is tougher than last year, and last year I was very disappointing in the end. 
 So he is a great champion, no? His attitude always is positive when he lose, when he win. Always accept the victories and the losses with the same humble for him. 
 Well, he's not a close friend of me because we are from different countries, and the English. But I always have a lot of respect for him. I admire him a lot. And we have a very good relationship, no? 
 At the same time I am very happy for me, but sorry for him, no, because he deserve his title, too, no? 

 Q. In the fifth set, how close did you feel to actually losing it? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I was close because I have a breakpoint against, no? But I played a very good forehand, and after a good smash. 
 I was close to lose, but every game when I was returning I was close to win, too. 

 Q. How did you handle the rain delays? Roger is more experienced than you. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I got a lot of experience last year (smiling). 

 Q. What did you do in the longer rain delay? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Nothing. What can I do, no? Just be in the locker room, changing a little bit the clothes. That's it. I can't have a shower because I have all the tapes. We don't know when we have to come back to the court. Wait. Try to warm up and be about positive attitude with calm. Listen some music. That's it. 

 Q. How concerned or worried were you that you weren't going to be allowed to finish because it was so dark?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I feel it. In the last game, I didn't see nothing. The true, I wasn't see nothing, no? Was unbelievable. I thought we have to stop. Well, if I lost the last game we have to stop, that's for sure. 
 But at the same time when I was preparing for serve in the - how was the final score? 9-7? 10-8? 

 Q. Yes.
 RAFAEL NADAL: So with 8-7, when I was ready for serve, I said, No, I can't believe. I can't see nothing, no? 

 Q. You're the first person to climb into the Royal Box. How well do you know the Prince? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I meet with His Highness sometimes. So, well, always was a pleasure for me, and just can say thank you very much, His Highness, for be here watching my final. So always is a special feeling, no? 

 Q. What did he say to you? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: They congratulate me, and I was speaking a little bit more with His Highness in the locker room after. 

 Q. You've beaten Roger now on clay, on his grass. That only leaves hard court, doesn't it? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I won against him on hard court final of Dubai. 

 Q. This year. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: This year not. Well, I don't know, no? Right now just focus on the next tournament, Toronto, or Stuttgart. I fly to Stuttgart tomorrow, so I have to decide. 
 But just focus on this. If I meet Roger on hard gonna be very good news, because we only can meet in the finals, no? 

 Q. Can you just try and express your feelings as the match went on and on and became tighter and more dramatic, what were some of the things that were going through your head?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know. Just focus in every point. Is impossible to think too much, because if you think too much you not gonna play well. 
 I just focus next point, have point by point, no? I don't want to think about the title, nothing, because later is tough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT