WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2008
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. NADAL/M. Youzhny
6-3, 6-3, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Rafael Nadal. 

 Q. How is your knee?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I think fine. 

 Q. Have you had it checked out?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, nothing very important. That's sure. 

 Q. You weren't too concerned then, even when you had to have the restrapping? You weren't too bothered? You felt okay, felt fine?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I felt a little bit. I felt a little bit pain. I was a little bit scared because I felt something. I felt, well, crack something a little behind. But I think it's fine, no? 

 Q. Was there ever a moment you thought you would have to pull out?
 RAFAEL NADAL: This is a lot. No, no. I never thought about that, no. 

 Q. How much have you had to battle through pain in your career, and how important is that quality in you?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I think I am fine. I don't have a lot of pains. Like every professional sportsman have pain because our body's always at a hundred percent. We go to the limit, no? 
 But I think no more than the rest. 

 Q. Can we say that today the match was easier than expected for you?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Sure. 6-3, 6-3, 6-1 against one difficult opponent like Youzhny for me is very good result. I did very good match, so happy for the victory. Especially very happy because I am playing well and I'm in quarterfinals. 

 Q. Have you ever had the problem with your knee before? Have you had the same trouble with your knee before?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Was not the knee. 

 Q. It was below the knee?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Was behind the knee. 

 Q. Have you had that before?
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, no, no. Was a bad movement. 

 Q. Could you talk us through the challenges you would face with your next opponent, Gasquet or Murray. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, both are very good players, young players. The same age like me. Andy one less probably, yes. Young players. Good players. Both gonna be very tough opponents. I know that. I have to play my best tennis if I want to be in the semifinals. 

 Q. Do you think today was your most complete performance so far at Wimbledon?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Today? I played well. I played very well. 

 Q. If it is Andy Murray in the next game, do you think the Wimbledon crowd will be a difficult thing to overcome?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Wimbledon crowd always are very respectus (sic) with everybody. And with me, when I go on court, I feel the people are with me always, so that's very nice. I just can say thank you very much for the England people and the London people. I felt the same last week in Queen's. Well, I am very happy about the crowd here always. 
 I know if I play against Andy Murray, probably the crowd gonna be with him. But I think with me gonna be nice, too, no? 

 Q. Before the tournament started you said your idea of a dream would be for Spain to win the football and for you to win Wimbledon. How do you feel halfway now?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I think for right now we have the first thing, and the second gonna be difficult. 

 Q. Did you celebrate last night?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, for sure I celebrate. But, you know, I play today. I can't go out and celebrate. But at home, yes.

 Q. You won 21 points at the net out of 24. What does it mean for you?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Unbelievable volley (smiling). 
 That's mean I was playing very good from the baseline, because when I arrive to the net, I arrive in always very good position. That's what that mean for me.

 Q. How did you celebrate the football result?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Jumping.

 Q. Champagne or jumping did you say?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Jumping. Champagne will reserve for finish the tournament. 

 Q. Where did you watch it and who was with you?
 RAFAEL NADAL: We watch it here at home with my team and the team of Feliciano López. There like 10 persons, 11, 12. I don't know. 

 Q. Have you sent any messages of congratulations to any of the players?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, I send to Casillas, sure. 

 Q. Did you find it quite draining, watching the game last night? Was it hard emotionally? Did it take a lot of energy out of you?
 RAFAEL NADAL: If I say that and today I won 6-3, 6-3, 6-1 I going to be very stupid, no? 

 Q. If Andy Murray doesn't win Wimbledon, do you think the crowd here would like you to win it more than anybody else now?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Ask the crowd. I am not nobody for say what the crowd wants. I just can say when I go on court I feel the crowd support me a lot. 

 Q. Federer said before that he had a quiet week. Can we say the same for you, you had a quiet week?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Never quiet. Never is quiet, no? Always is difficult. Every match. Sometimes you win with easy result, but in every match you have some difficult moments. 
 So I don't want to say and I don't like to say is a quiet week. Is important week because I am in quarterfinals, so is a very good result being in quarterfinals here for the third time in a row here in one difficult tournament like Wimbledon and playing like this. But quiet, never. 

 Q. Do you think your knee will require any more treatment?
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know. Right now I am feeling better. Tomorrow we will see how I wake up. But hopefully going to be fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT