THE ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 11, 2008
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. NADAL/J. Bjorkman
6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Rafael. 

 Q. Nice to be on the grass again?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah. Happy for be here another year. Always is a pleasure play on grass. Well, for sure the first day, the sensation is a little bit strange. But, anyway, the most important thing is I have one match already play. For be the first day, was good for me. Important thing, I gonna have another match tomorrow. 
 The most important thing for me, anyway, for sure this tournament is very important. If I can have a very good result here, is going to be very important for me. But if I play some matches, that's the most important thing, for prepare good Wimbledon, no? 

 Q. How much practice time did you have on the grass between arriving in Paris and actually playing your match? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: In Monday I play around 1 hour 15. Yesterday I played 2 hours practice before the doubles and, I don't know, 1 hour something for doubles. 

 Q. Can you tell us what you did on Sunday night after the French Open?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Sunday night I have a dinner with the family, with all the people around me, close to me. Later we go to take something. 

 Q. Champagne?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Champagne we take in the dinner, yes. Not too much (smiling). 

 Q. Can you talk about the mental adjustment of playing on clay one day and practicing the next day on grass, how it is in the head to do that? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Mentally it's tough, for sure. The movements are so different. And the feeling when you're touching the ball, too. 
 When you are playing, you are having memories how you have to play on this surface, no, from the last years. So when you are having more time on court, you remember more things, no? Important thing is have a lot of time on court. 

 Q. What is the best memory you have of playing on grass?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Best memory? Well, for sure I think I have at the same time the best, at the same time the worst. So the final last year in Wimbledon, no? 
 I played an unbelievable match, but at the same time I lost a good chance for win my favorite tournament, no? 

 Q. After the way in which you beat Federer in the final at the French, Bjorn Borg, who's record you're threatening at Roland Garros, said he made you a favorite for Wimbledon on the grass. How do you respond to that from a player of such class?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Thanks to Bjorn for his words. You know, from outside, for example, if you ask me right now Davydenko is one of the favorites for Wimbledon. Yes, why not? So probably the journalist asked him, Nadal can win Wimbledon? Yes, for sure. 

 Q. I don't think he made the comment lightly. I think he meant it. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I think important thing is arrive there playing well. Going to be very important the first matches. If you can win the first two, three matches, later is a little bit easier. Especially if there is sun, it will be easier because the court is a little bit more tougher, a little bit more easy for me to play. 
 I know the grass is a difficult surface for me, but probably I play my best tennis in this surface, too. 

 Q. Having conquered the clay, how special would it be for you to add the Wimbledon title? How special would it be to emulate the achievement of Borg? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: For me is important to play good in every surface. Grass is another surface. Wimbledon is a very important tournament. But for me is improving every surface. I am still young. I have to continuing improve. I have four Grand Slams already, and I want to have more, if it's possible, one in different surface, no? 

 Q. Were you able to have any kind of quiet time on the train coming over from Paris?
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, was the best moment probably after the victory of French Open. 

 Q. Did you sleep? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, I didn't sleep, no. I sleep good on Sunday night. I go to take something, but I didn't arrive till very late. So, you know, is tough after very important victory. You do like three hours press, anti-doping. Later you go to have the dinner. Another time the press is there. So finally you win and you wake up the next day, and when you wake up you go directly to have the photos. 
 So the first time when you are with calm enjoying the victory is the train. So was an important moment for me. 

 Q. Some people are scared to go under the tunnel. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Why? 

 Q. Because they don't like the feeling of the water above. They're in the train. Does it worry you at all?
 RAFAEL NADAL: When I am going there, I didn't think about if the water... 

 Q. Any thoughts on your next opponent? I heard you practiced with him a couple years ago. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: I practiced with him? I don't remember. 
 Anyway, how old are he? 

 Q. 18. 
 RAFAEL NADAL: 18. Still very, very young. He won a tournament in Delray Beach this year, beating against very good players. Probably one of the next stars, the next top 10s. 
 The true, I didn't know very well how he's playing. I'm sure tomorrow going to be a tough match, very tough. 

 Q. When you beat somebody like Jonas, who has a good record on grass, is that a quick confirmation that reminds you how good you can play on grass? 
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, I don't know, no, because is very early. For have the confirmation, you need more practice here. You have to be more comfortable on court because the true, I go out of court and, for sure, if I win 6-2, 6-2, I believe I played a good match, no? But the feelings are strange. I need more days for know if I am playing well or not that well, no, because you have to remember how you win the points here, no? It's completely different. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT