MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO PRESENTED BY ROLEX
April 25, 2008
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  R. NADAL/D. Ferrer  
6-1, 7-5  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How did you feel that was today?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, I think I start playing the match very well. Yeah, I have chances in every game in the first set, no? I think I start playing very long, having the control of the point with the forehand, so going inside the court when I have the chance. So I think I play a very good first set, no?   
 Maybe later I stop a little bit. But David start playing very well the second set, very aggressive. Every time when he touch the forehand, whew, was a winner, no? So I can't do much more, no?   
 Important thing, I was there all the time, focused, believing in the victory, and believing in the second set, too, no? So, anyway, I was two breaks down. That's the most important thing in the second.   
 Finally for sure in the end of the second set I have lucky because with 5-4, 40-Love, so if you don't have lucky, you never going to win the set. But I was there all the time.   
  
  Q. Do you need sometimes for a tough match at this time of year just to feel like you're in the clay court season?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, for sure, today was a very important win for me, no, against No. 5 of the world - in his surface, too. So I think was a very important win for me because I lost the last two times against him. So is important, no?   
  
  Q. You were three set points down at 5-4. At 40-15, he made a really good dropshot that you got to. Can you talk about that game a little bit.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: When you are 40-Love down with 5-4, you think the set is in the past, no? But just try to be there and be concentrate every point, and you never know what's going on, no?   
 I was there believing I can come back. But the true, it was very, very difficult, no? Just sometimes happen. And today was one of these days, no?   
  
  Q. Are the conditions here much slower than Roland Garros?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Slower?   
  
  Q. Slower or faster?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, I don't think.   
  
  Q. Same?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: The ball is different. But for the rest I think is not much difference, I think.   
  
  Q. Could you talk about playing Nikolay tomorrow?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, well, probably one of the best players who are in best performance in the last months, no? Winning in Miami, winning in Davis Cup. And right now last week playing in the final of Estoril. So he's coming with big confidence. I know the last time I lost against him in Miami, was playing really bad. I play a really bad match, no? He played well. He beat me easy.   
 But I hope tomorrow gonna be different match, no? Yeah, I have to play my best if I want to win because he's very good. And just play my best, I'm gonna have chances.   
  
  Q. Is the key to annoy you on clay to be aggressive like Ferrer was the second set?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Well, if I know the key, I don't gonna say the key. But the true, I don't have any key, no? I don't know the key. When I go to the court, I know I can lose against a lot of players, no? If the other player are player at his hundred percent, especially the No. 5 of the world, for sure he has chances for beat me.  
  
  Q. Do you feel in better form not than this time last year?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: It's difficult to compare, no? Last year I arrive with less points than this year, but winning a title in Indian Wells. So is similar. I think is similar.   
  
  Q. The play, do you feel just as comfortable at last year?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: I don't know. Last year I arrive to semifinals winning probably easy, too, no? I won against -- I don't know exactly. But I won against Vliegen I think easy. I think I won against Kohlschreiber without many problems. I didn't remember the third round against who? But I think I won all the match without many problems, no?   
 I think probably similar. But this year I think I have a tougher draw.   
  
  Q. Can you describe your feeling on your first training session on clay. Just after the Davis Cup in Germany, where was it and what was your feeling to be on clay?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: I said yesterday, no, is a strange feeling because is a long time without playing on clay. Well, you know, first two days you have more mistakes because the bounce of the ball sometimes are not hundred percent perfect like when you are playing on hard, so you have to adapt. First days are a little bit strange.   
  
  Q. But you were happy?  
 RAFAEL NADAL: Happy? I happy when I'm playing tennis in any surface, no? I have very good results in all surfaces. When I am playing well, I am happy in every surface because I can play very well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT