MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO PRESENTED BY ROLEX
April 24, 2008
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  R. NADAL/J. Ferrero  
6-4, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How did you feel that was for you?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I think good, no? I think was a good match. Never is easy play against Juan Carlos. He's a big player, especially here on clay.   
 So is a very good win for me.   
  
  Q. Did you feel like it was a step up from yesterday for you?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: I really don't know, no? I think I played a good match. Yesterday I played good match, too.   
 So if I win 6-4, 6-1 against Juan Carlos, I can't think I am not playing well, no?   
  
  Q. When you haven't played on clay for a while, does it always feel automatic for you? Does it feel very natural to play on it again?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: No. For sure, no. For sure, a little bit easier for me than one player when he never play on clay when he was young, no?   
 But I think for me is tough, too, because I only play four tournaments in the year on clay, or five maximum. So is not easy.   
  
  Q. When you came back from hard courts, can you talk about the feeling the first time you stepped back on clay after such a long time? Was it a big pleasure for you to feel the ball, to be sliding again?   
 RAFAEL NADAL: No, no. Really, no. I feel normal, like always. For me is a pleasure play on hard court, too, no? When I am playing on clay, in the beginning I feel strange. So later if we speak in three weeks, probably I feel more comfortable, no?   
 But right now, you know, the first tournament is always tough. You don't know how you are playing. And for sure for me is a very good start, win the first two matches against Mario yesterday and today against Juan Carlos in this way, in two sets, no? Is a very good start for me and that gives me confidence.   
  
  Q. Do you think people perhaps don't realize that it is tough for you? They just go, 'Rafa, it's clay, he'll be fine.' They don't realize you have to adjust, as well.   
 RAFAEL NADAL: For sure I have to adjust, no? In the last years, I have more than three days for adapt to clay, no? This year I play Davis Cup, so probably is very tough for me, no? And I think I can be happy with myself because I start the tournament playing well and is not easy because I finish the Davis Cup on Sunday. I need one, two days off because I play one month in Miami and Indian Wells. And I only have two days in Mallorca, and after three days here, so is not much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT