AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2008
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Can you remember the last time you had to save six set points in the first set of a match? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No.  Match points, yes.  Two weeks ago.  You said points, too.  Against Moya, maybe four.  Similar. 

 Q.  Did you just feel that you started very slowly today? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah.  I know normally I start very hard.  And today, well, I really don't know.  I start the match without very good tactic, I think, no? 
 I don't know exactly in English, but I start the match watching the rival, not worried about me, trying to do my game, trying to play aggressive with my forehand.  So that's what I have to do, no, not watch in the other side what's going on, no? 
 I thought he start -- he will start a little bit more slowly.  Well, with the ball not very high to his forehand, he will miss a little bit.  But really he don't miss.  He play forehand return winners, so... 
 Thank you David Ferrer, because he give me this tactic.  He say me that before the match (laughter). 

 Q.  Is the overriding emotion more relief to get through?  Are you happy to have got through, given the start? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Sure, is important win for me, no?  Is important.  In every tournament, you have to overcome difficult moments.  I have one in the first day.  Today another time.  Is important, no, because you feel the pressure. 
 Is important play in difficult moments and is important have alternatives when the things are not doing very well. 

 Q.  What's going through your head when you're down 5-2 in a set? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Nothing, no?  I just try to play my game, no?  I know I was not doing the things how I would like to do because I didn't play aggressive, I didn't have the control of the point. 
 And I know in some moment of the match I have to change.  I have to try to start play my forehand, try to have the control of the point with my forehand, move Gilles.  When I had that, when you do these things, the match change a lot, no? 

 Q.  What do you do on your day off?  Reading your blog, you used to play PlayStation with Ferrer. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, disappointing here we are in different hotels, so is not possible, no?  Yes, practice in the morning a little bit here, and in the afternoon rest.  Less than yesterday because I rest too much yesterday in the afternoon. 
 I don't know what's happening here in Australia, but I really -- I really don't know, but in the afternoon if I am in the room, I sleep two hours.  I never sleep nothing but here.  I don't know. 

 Q.  Australian siesta. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Australian siesta (laughter).  In Mallorca is typical.  Here I never do. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT