TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 11, 2007
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  You had kind of a slow start today.  Can you talk about how you got into the match and what you were thinking at the beginning? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, a little bit in the beginning a little bit nervous.  Every match is very difficult because you play only against the best.  So I start the match with, well, little bit doubts, no?  But later I play a little bit more aggressive. 
 Very important was do the break in the beginning of the second.  I finish much better than I start, no? 

 Q.  You did a really good job this time, but at the same time I noticed that your opponent also did a good job and won the first set.  Could you make some comments on those young players, about the same age as you, coming up this year like Novak and Richard? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, the tennis, I don't know how much years, but every year the new players come, no?  Right now the tour in very good positions, very young players is coming, no?  Djokovic, me, Gasquet, Berdych, Monfils, Del Potro, Murray, a lot of players, very young players the same age like me or one less, no? 
 So is nice for the tennis, too, and is nice for me because I played against these players when I was in juniors, I have 14 years old. 

 Q.  I noticed that your knees are still taped up.  Could you give us an idea how you're doing physically and how you felt out there? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Everything perfect.  So no comments about the knees, because I can't comment nothing because is perfect. 

 Q.  For quite a good stretch it seemed like you and Roger had a considerable distance on the next tier at the top of men's tennis.  We've seen Novak come up a lot this year.  Also Nalbandian played extraordinary the last few weeks.  Do you think there's an arrival where there's more of a crowd of players at the top? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Sure, no, for the last two years Roger and me we have -- well, Roger have one difference, me another difference, and after another players close, no? 
 But right now Djokovic, he's having a very good season.  He's playing unbelievable level.  So he has his chances for be No. 1, No. 2.  I think we know, we accept. 
 Murray is coming very well, too.  Was tough year for him because he has an important injury.  But if not, in my opinion, Murray be here right now, no? 
 So, yeah, the next year is going to be more players fighting for be No. 1, No. 2. 

 Q.  What is your comment on the terra cotta warrior statue?  How do you like it?  Will you take it home with you? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yes, I don't know where I can put the terra cotta (laughter).  I didn't think about the place because is big, no? 
 Well, is different.  I don't know.  Maybe at the entrance to the house.  But outside, not inside (smiling).  No more ideas from my mind. 

 Q.  In today's match, which aspect do you think you outplayed Richard Gasquet? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know, no?  The match was close.  He start playing better than me.  We didn't start very well, in my opinion.  Richard and me, we didn't start very well, having mistakes. 
 But later he improve.  I improve, too, later.  I play more aggressive.  I made important rhythm on the legs, in the movement.  I improve a lot that when the match is coming.  For that reason, I can finish the match playing more aggressive than the beginning. 
 Going more times to the net, that's important point for me.  For example, in the last game, I have very important point, the last one, going to the net, no?  In the 4-3, serve and volley sometimes.  Is important for me try to play like this. 

 Q.  Just a little bit about Novak, since you kind of had a big year like that once in your career.  How hard is it going to be for him to keep up that momentum in the second year after having such fantastic results?  How hard do you think it will be, from your experiences, when you had that similar situation? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Every player is different, no?  Well, he's very good.  In my opinion, well, he going to feel the pression a little bit.  Little bit more than this year, but that doesn't matter for him, no, because he has advantage, an advantage compared with me at the second year. 
 He serve much better so he has a lot of free points.  So that always is a big help for pull out the pression, no?  I think next year he gonna be -- he gonna do the same results or better.  My opinion.  Because he's young and he's improving. 

 Q.  As you just said, you're playing some serve and volley this year.  Obviously you pushed Roger very hard in the Wimbledon final.  How confident are you that you can close the gap or do you feel you're closing the gap on Roger at the top? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, this year was the year when I am closer to him.  But the closer thing is 995 points.  That's not very close.  That's a lot of points (smiling). 
 That's it, no.  Wimbledon final was important match.  Very important. 

 Q.  Novak said you guys hang out with each other after he defeated Roger Federer in Montréal.  What about now in Shanghai?  You are now in the same group.  You are now opponents.  After the match or before the match, do you have plans to hang out with Novak in Shanghai? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  That's not true.  That's not true.  In Montréal, was a coincidence we were in the same restaurant.  I invite him a drink for congratulate him.  But that's enough, no?  I didn't go out with him, no? 
 Well, I don't have better relation with Novak than with Roger.  I can celebrate nothing for the win of Novak.  He's another player.  He's a nice guy.  Well, but, I didn't go out never with him yet.  That's the true.  I don't know in the future. 

 Q.  It's your third time to come to Shanghai for the Tennis Masters Cup.  What is your impression about the fans here in China? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Is different.  Nice experience.  Is fourth time for me in China.  So the fans here in China, they show a lot of emotions always.  So wait in the hotel every time.  Doesn't matter the hour, no?  If you come back at 2:00 in the morning, the fans are there every time (laughter).  So that's very nice experience for us. 
 Well, the Chinese people I think is learning in the tennis tour the last years.  So going to be a very important market for us in the future, having important tournaments, no, here.  Well, is always special be here.  The crowd is different, too. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT