WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 15, 2007
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Did you hurt yourself during the match? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah.  Yeah, but I have some cramping here.  I wasn't grasp the racquet very well.  I didn't feel nothing when I touching the racquet.  I wasn't feel very well when I go to the court.  On the way, I feel dizzy all time.  It was tough day. 

 Q.  So even before the match started you felt something was wrong? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, nothing.  When I go to the court, I don't know, strange feelings. 

 Q.  When did to get really bad during the match, the way you felt? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Oh, I start very bad. 

 Q.  Started very bad? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah.  I started very bad feeling totally dizzy all time.  The mind wasn't there in no moment.  Well, Monaco was playing well.  I can't play more than three ball on every point.  I wasn't feel well.  My feelings is I wasn't have power in the legs.  Well, I don't know, strange feeling today. 

 Q.  That's odd, because I thought maybe the first round bye might help you coming from Montreal. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  It's important to have some off days always, but sometimes that's happen, no?  It's the first time in the season for me and here humidity is a lot.  It's tough. 
 So I don't know, I really don't know what's happening.  But the true is I wasn't feel well during the match and during the day. 

 Q.  Why did you retire when you did?  Did you think you would be able to finish? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah.  Well, because I can't continue, no?  It was stupid continue playing because I feel I can't do nothing.  I can't move and I feel going worse, the dizzy is going worse.  It's stupid continuing suffering on court for nothing, no? 

 Q.  Was the dizziness worse or the arm? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  It was a little bit everything, no? 

 Q.  Was your arm in pain or was it just tight? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Cramping. 

 Q.  It seemed to really affect you on your forehand, your arm.  Was it worse on that side or no? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Everything affect everything.  I can't move.  Through the match I never run more than three balls.  It's difficult play like this, no? 

 Q.  It's just the bad luck, so to speak, sort of continues here for you in Cincinnati.  How frustrating is it for you to play this tournament? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Not much, no?  I was coming here with big illusion, but these things can happen in any tournament.  This is a heat tournament, hot tournament, and anyway it can happen, that. 
 The important thing for me is I was here today in very important tournament, but just disappointed for that.  But it's nothing wrong with this tournament, no?  The surface is okay for me and I know when I am her I can come here and win the tournament. 

 Q.  Will you head to New York to prepare for the Open or what are your plans now? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know yet.  I have to think. 

 Q.  Did you feel some pain during the warm up this morning? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No.  I feel great.  Playing well.  Nothing bad.  Strange.  When I go to the court definitely I feel pain, but... 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT