U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2007
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  You didn't seem to be thinking about your knee when you were playing today.  Was it a concern?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, I start with some doubts in the beginning.  Yesterday I have pain.  When I go to practice I stop practice for the knee.  Yesterday I didn't take any anti-inflammatories yesterday because I can't every day.  But today morning I put some anti-inflammatories.  Yesterday I work hard.   
 I think it's typical after the match.  It was the first match when I really push hard.  I play hard and, well, the next day it's tough.  But today when I go to practice I feel better, not 100%, but better.   
 When I go on court I start with a little bit pain, but after go out, no?  The knee was a little bit more warm.  Easier.   
  
  Q.  Most people say that when they start, they get into the match and they forget about the pain.  Particularly when you've won a tight first set, was it completely out of your mind at that point?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Sure.  When I am in the tiebreak I don't think about the pain for the moment, I just think about the match.   
  
  Q.  And it didn't hurt you at all during the rest of the match?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, when I arrive sometimes a little bit with force to any ball, some ball, depends of the ball, I feel a little bit.  But I'm very happy today about my knee.   
  
  Q.  How is it limiting you?  Is it limiting you on the court?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, it's not easy, yeah.  A little bit, yeah.  A little bit, sure, no?  Especially when I have to run.  I have to run for to go to my forehand a little bit.  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Does the injury make it hard to know how well you're playing?  Are you thinking more about the injury?  Is it difficult to tell your level of play?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I play good today.  Today and second round I play so much better.  I'm happy about my game from today and two days ago.   
 I am playing well.  Sure, it's not easy play like this, and this -- well, it's more difficult play good if you have some problem, like me, no?   
 So I'm very happy about that, because when I go on court I'm playing at a very good level and if I don't feel the pain.  I can play so much better because I don't think about the knee, no?   
 So for example, yesterday I go practice and I don't put one ball inside the court because my mind is there.  It's on the knee not on the ball, no?  But today I feel better.  It's very important thing.  Just think about the ball, don't think about the pain because if not it's impossible.   
  
  Q.  Are you confident you can go up every round?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I have a very tough match right now against Ferrer.  I know going to be a very tough match.  He's playing very well.  I hope be good for after tomorrow.  Try my best for win.   
  
  Q.  How important was it for you to get through this in straight sets, especially with the way you cruised through sets two and three today?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Always, not for me right now, but always important for me win in straight sets, no?  So, yeah, sure, for my knees it's better because I can be a little bit more relaxed for the next match.  So that's good.   
  
  Q.  Do you know which has helped your knee improve more, the rest or the laser treatment?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, I am doing the laser, yes, but I do a lot of things.   
  
  Q.  Oh, lots of things.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I know if the laser or -- I think everything help me.  But I'm doing -- well, I speak every day about that, no?  So I don't want continue speaking about what I am doing.   
 But I am doing a lot of things to try to improve my knee, and not only the laser.  The laser maybe, okay, can help me, but help me a lot of things.   
  
  Q.  Will you have to take off much time after this tournament, do you think?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't hope.  I hope be -- I have two weeks off anyway after this tournament.  I don't play a tournament.  I don't play tournaments and I going to be in Bangkok after two weeks, so I have -- for example, I think one week for being rest and having a little reparation and after start to practice for Bangkok.   
  
  Q.  What's your record like against Ferrer?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.   
  
  Q.  Do you have memories --   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  What's that?   
  
  Q.  4-1.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  4-1.   
  
  Q.  What memories do you have of playing in the past?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I played with him the semifinals this year in Barcelona.  I play him important matches in semifinals of Rome and semifinals of Miami.  Quarterfinals of Roland Garros.  I lost to him in Stuttgart quarterfinals in, I don't know, 2004 maybe.   
 Always a tough match because he's very, very fast player.  He's playing always with very good rhythm.  Very tough player.  Very difficult.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT