WIMBLEDON
July 8, 2007
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please, for Rafael Nadal. 

 Q.  What would you say made the difference in this match? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Some points.  Just have big chances in the fifth, 15-40.  Especially, well, I wasn't feel I play worse than him from the baseline, no?  Maybe if we have to find any difference, maybe the difference is the serve.  He serve better than me, and that's important in every surface, but in this surface more, no? 

 Q.  Federer says yesterday in the conference you are in the driver's seat when it comes to clay, and not on grass. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, I play great tournament, no?  I play very good level, playing against one of the best of the history in this surface, having two chances for a win I'm playing at a similar level. 
 I can say nothing bad about my tournament.  Well, today was a little bit disappointing because I have good chances.  But happy, tomorrow I will be happy about my tournament and about my game. 

 Q.  Being broken for 4-2 seemed to maybe just push your game down a bit.  What were you feeling at that time? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, was tough for me, no, because I have two 15-40s in the fifth.  One was big chance for have the break.  I wasn't lose the serve till the second game of the match.  I know if I have the break in the fifth I have very good chances for have the title, no? 
 Well, he save some points with the serve.  And later when he has to win, he has to break me, he play very good.  So, well, just congratulate him.  Good win for him. 

 Q.  What about the knee, and the injury? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, was not the best moment, no, because I was playing fine in the fourth for a while and I have to call to the trainer.  But doesn't matter, no?  Just right now is better, so doesn't matter.  Don't worry about the knee.  Thank you, but was fine. 

 Q.  On one of the breakpoints in the fifth set, you had a backhand volley to the open court but you didn't hit it that hard.  Was that the key shot? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  On my breakpoints?  No, sure not.  I remember all the breakpoints if you want. 

 Q.  What was your best opportunity? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  My best opportunity was in the 30-40 of the first breakpoint, the first game when I have the breakpoint.  I have good return. 
 He come back.  I touch very good close backhand, and, well, he return very good the ball and I miss the forehand for go to the other side, the winner forehand.  That's best chance. 

 Q.  Federer has won so many Grand Slams now that some people are saying he could become the greatest player of all time.  How much would you agree with that? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, the best player of the history have 14.  He has 11.  So he's very close.  He's still playing unbelievable. 
 Anyway, if he going to win 14 or 16 or 13, my opinion, the tennis level is the best of the history. 

 Q.  Do you feel now that your rivalry with Roger has moved beyond questions of about preferred surface, and now there's only a few points separating you on any surface anywhere in the world? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I said yesterday and this season, no, I am playing better.  I am playing better than last year.  I am better player than last year, sure. 
 Maybe, well, compared with Roger right now is not possible yet because he has 11 Grand Slams, me three.  But, well, I am young.  I am improving every season and try continuing improving every day, practice with illusion. 
 Well, today was tough for me, but at the same time, well, is good watch me playing one final like this against the best of the world on grass, playing at similar level. 
 So, yeah, happy about my game and happy about my season right now.  I have to continue. 

 Q.  Today you looked very angry.  Were you angry or just intense concentration? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  On the match? 

 Q.  Yeah.  No smile, no light, nothing. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  You watch me smile in the last matches when I am on court?  And you watched me the other matches of the week? 

 Q.  Yes.  Is the same. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  The same?  So is nothing different.  Just concentrate. 

 Q.  You seemed to be playing a lot closer to the baseline in this match.  Was that conscious?  Was this a change of strategy to try to get to the net faster? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I tried to play as aggressive as possible.  That's my strategy.  Just try to play good. 
 I was touching very good the ball yesterday in the practicing, afternoon, today morning.  During the match I was playing fine, touching very good the ball.  Just try to play hard with the forehand and with all shots. 

 Q.  You must be very tired as well.  What is your preparation now for the hard court season? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Clay right now. 

 Q.  You have America coming up. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I come back to Stuttgart right now next week.  Important tournament.  I have now the best preparation is have some days off, recover the power. 
 After Stuttgart I going to have some more days off, one week and a half for prepare Montréal, Cincinnati and US Open. 

 Q.  Right after the handshake at the net, the way you were sitting in your chair, you seemed very, very disappointed.  Were there things going through your mind?  Were you just exhausted?  Did you feel the match got away from you? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Nothing special, no?  I have good chances for winning very important tournament for me.  And normal.  I lose one hour before.  I am a good loser.  I accept the loss very well.  And, well, the lose don't affect me more than some hours.  After that I forgot and I am hundred percent fine. 
 But, well, first moment, especially losing in fifth set, it's not easy, no? 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT