ROGERS MASTERS
August 11, 2007
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Did you expect him to come out so hard right off the bat?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Can you repeat, please?   
  
  Q.  Did you expect Djokovic to come out so hard from the first set?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  From the baseline?   
  
  Q.  Did you expect him to be so aggressive?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, I tell you yesterday, no?  He was playing a very good tournament, very good season.  He beat Roddick.  Roddick was winning the last tournament last week, so he's coming in with good confidence.  And he beat Roddick.  He beat Nalbandian.  So he's coming with big confidence.  He played very, very good match.  Very complete match, and he's unbelievable today.   
  
  Q.  How was your knee today?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  My?   
  
  Q.  Your knee?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, no problem.   
  
  Q.  How did you feel about the way you played today?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, I wasn't play bad, no?  I play good tennis, but maybe I have to improve a little bit more.  No, I am not disappointed about my game.  But I think it's the first week on hard court.  Anyway, I played good week, semifinals is a good start of the American season in hard.  But I know I have to improve a little bit more for the next weeks.   
 No, I hope, well, in the week I am coming better every day, and I hope that's continuing to Cincinnati and New York.  Well, anyway, Djokovic he's a great player, and I would love to play against him another time next week.  Because I hope I have -- I know I have to improve a little bit more, and he's a nice match for play.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel you were moving as well as you would like to?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  What?   
  
  Q.  Did you feel you were moving as well as you would like to?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I need move a little bit better, no?  Well, before coming here I have one week off, I have to stop one week for the knee.  The next week I just, I tell you before, I just play with my uncle very, very slow.  And I need a little bit more rhythm in the movements, no.   
 But I am getting slowly but, I think every day is coming a little bit better.  And I have maybe a few days right now for practice for Cincinnati.  And Cincinnati I hope play a few more matches, and that's going to help me a lot me.   
  
  Q.  I want to ask you a question:  I saw you with the Real Madrid team for the last game of the season they won.  Your father used to play for Barcelona.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  My father?   
  
  Q.  No?  That's what I had read somewhere?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, not my father.  Was uncle.   
  
  Q.  Your uncle played for Barcelona.  So, how come you're a Real Madrid fan?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, well, my uncle was in Barcelona maybe eight, nine years.  While my uncle was in Barcelona, I support him.  I support Barcelona.  But before Barcelona, my uncle was playing in Mallorca and I am fan to Mallorca and Real Madrid.  Before my uncle goes to Barcelona, I'm a fan of Real Madrid.  So when my uncle finished with Barcelona, I come back to Real Madrid.   
  
  Q.  You had some very tough match in the last round, how do you feel physically tonight?  You feel fatigue or?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I am fine.  The truth is I need a little bit more speed in the movements for have better return the ball, especially when I am running to the forehand.  But that's always I can improve always, playing and playing more matches and more practice.   
 So, that's it.  I know that.  But the important thing for me is I am feeling better hit the ball.  So I feel better hit the ball every day with the forehand.  If you compare the match against Mathieu and yesterday, I improve, and today I improve a little bit more so that's always important.   
  
  Q.  You talked to the referee a couple of times.  Do you think it's useful to talk to the referee after he's made his call?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Can you repeat, please?   
  
  Q.  You talked to the referee after he make his call.  Do you think it's useful to do that?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't think so (smiling).  It doesn't matter, but I have to say.  Because if the ball is going like this up over the net, and he's saying, Net, first serve.  So I have to say because the shit machine is not working never (laughing).  Always using the machine the machine every area it's having lot of mistakes, so ATP has to check that.   
  
  Q.  So you got a time warning, but Djokovic takes a long time to serve, too.  Do you think he should have gotten some?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, not today, no.   
  
  Q.  You didn't?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, not today.   
  
  Q.  I was wondering if your new doubles partner, Lleyton Hewitt, has he taught you any Aussie expressions?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Not yet, no.  I just played with him this week.  But anyway, it was a nice experience.  Disappointing we have to retire in the second round.  We played very tough matches, and I had some with the elbow.  I have some trouble the elbow, and he has some problem with the nail on the foot, and we have to retire.   
 But it was a nice experience to play one match with him.  I hope in the future we can play a little bit more, but no.   
  
  Q.  Are you playing doubles in Cincinnati?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Maybe.  Maybe, I think.  I think, yes.  We'll discuss it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT