THE ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 15, 2007
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RAFAEL NADAL:  I need say some things.  I going to speak in Spanish, but he's going to translate because I'm not prepared very good to say that. 
 (Speaking in Spanish.) 
 THE MODERATOR:  One of the press agencies published some quotes from me regarding the Davis Cup, and I didn't really say what they quoted me as saying, like that it's an antiquated event, that you lose money playing it. 
 I said that it's a very, very special competition for me.  I experience feelings playing Davis Cup that you do not experience elsewhere, that money cannot buy.  Every time that I did not have any physical injury, I always played for my country and with a lot of -- 
 RAFAEL NADAL: --  passion (smiling). 
 (Speaking in Spanish.) 
 THE MODERATOR:  We need to look at the way it is played because it's a very important event, and we need to make sure that the top players are playing in Davis Cup. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I say, too, I don't know the solution, but we need find. 

 Q.  Would you like to see it played all in one week? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I say I don't know the solution.  I really don't know the solution.  I think a lot of times about what's the way.  I don't know very well what. 

 Q.  Do you know already if you will play next year? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I always play. 

 Q.  From first round? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I always from first round.  This year I was in Geneva, in Switzerland.  I was practicing all week.  I watching every match.  I have a health problem. 
 THE MODERATOR:  I had health problems.  I was sick. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  For the next confrontation, the United States, I would love play there, but I have some pain in the foot.  I have important injury two years ago.  Sometimes for me the surface change, especially hard, is difficult and very aggressive for me, for my foot, no? 

 Q.  A thought on tonight's match.  How difficult was it for you?  Why did you find it so difficult this evening? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, tough.  I didn't really play very well, no?  Yes, I just try my best, with the best tactic.  I have little bit of chance, one breakpoint in the second set.  2-1, 2-2, he give me ace outside.  After I had some more breakpoints.  He serve very well.  One second serve 123 miles outside advantage in the breakpoint.  That's unbelievable. 
 But anyway, I don't play very well today, no?  I am happy with my tournament.  Always is difficult adapt the change in just one day.  I play the quarterfinal.  That's not bad tournament for me on grass.  That's important for my preparation for Wimbledon, too, no?  Have three matches is so much better than if I don't come here.  Very happy with my tournament. 
 But a lot of changes, very fast changes, difficult to assimilate. 

 Q.  Will you go home for a couple days or stay in London and practice? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I go home.  I go home.  I need come back to home.  Is a lot of time in the last two months.  I was maybe two days at home.  I need disconnect, play some golf, watch a little bit end of the football league, have some fun with the friends.  I need put the racquet two days very far from me. 
 I would love win today and play the semifinals or final here, come back to home for few days, too, no?  But, anyway, I was trying my best today.  It was not possible.  Just the positive thing is I going to have a little bit time at home.  The negative thing is I can't play the semifinals tomorrow. 

 Q.  Do you think three matches is enough?  Same as last year. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, never is enough.  Best preparation is have the same like when you are normally going to the US Open.  You have three, four tournaments before the US Open, or when you are going to clay, you have some weeks, too, for prepare. 
 All is very close on the calendar and is difficult sometimes.  Adapt on grass in one week is always difficult.  I just try my best.  But especially if you play good on clay, especially if you play good in Roland Garros, is very difficult have a good preparation for Wimbledon, no? 
 But last year I have doubt.  I have three matches.  I go to Wimbledon on Tuesday.  I have one week preparation there.  I going to have the same schedule for this year, just try to practice there with my best illusion and we will see. 

 Q.  Will you make any changes in preparation for Wimbledon?  Anything you will do differently? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Differently than last year? 

 Q.  Yes. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, not much.  Just have the same home, same house, one minute away from Wimbledon by walking.  No, just go there to Wimbledon and practice there, practice with some people there, with the other players, have the more hours as possible on grass. 

 Q.  Madrid play Mallorca on Sunday. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Sunday. 

 Q.  Is that difficult for you being a Madrid fan? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, I am fan from Mallorca and Real Madrid both.  For this time, Real Madrid is playing for the league, and Mallorca is having a very good season this year.  Very happy because he save the category, he continue being the first seria, first league.  That's very good news for us.  On Sunday for Mallorca is a match which you don't play very often.  He don't play for the UEFA, don't play to go for the second week. 
 THE MODERATOR:  It's not like a big match.  There's nothing at stake.  It's not like you're going up. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  It's one more match for Mallorca.  For Real Madrid, it's very important. 

 Q.  Will you be sad to see Beckham leave? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Beckham is for me very good professional, no?  A lot of admiration for him.  Unbelievable, no, one guy.  He has a lot of things outside of football, outside of the sport.  He is doing commercials, always the people following him if he's going to anyplace.  When he go on court in matches, he run every ball, every match, fighting every match.  I love that. 
 Going to be big lose for us.  But he want to change.  That's good for him, too, no?  Important thing for my opinion about David Beckham is he always fighting a lot every match.  But always when you look David, one guy or something go to him and ask something, he always smiling.  That's very nice - and difficult (smiling). 

 Q.  Do you know if Beckham or the other Madrid players support you in your tennis? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know, no?  I have little bit relation with some players of Real Madrid. 

 Q.  Which players? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Raul Casillas.  It's nice for me when I am playing in Madrid and they are coming to watch my matches, no?  That's always very nice. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT