INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 10, 2007
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  You weren't very dizzy tonight. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, not today.  It was good for me.  I arrive here and I feel so much better today.  Very happy with my game on court.  I play very, very good all time. 
 I have a lot of opportunities, a lot of breakpoints, but Youzhny play very good in the breakpoints.  And then I was very, very great game for me.  I'm very happy for that. 

 Q.  Did you see the doctor again this morning, Rafa? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah.  I was in the hospital this morning, but nothing important.  Just I was a little bit dizzy yesterday.  Little bit of pain here (indicating side) but just a little bit check out vision.  That's it. 
 It was not bad, so I arrive here.  I have some relax in the room and I come back here with good feelings and I practice good and I arrive to the court very good. 

 Q.  What did the doctor actually say was wrong with you that caused you to feel the dizziness and the pain in your stomach? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I really -- well, I really don't know, no?  I have very normal check out and nothing important. 
 Please, stop the phone. 
 No, it was nothing important.  Just a little bit inflammation here, but nothing important.  Very, very small, so it was very good news for me. 

 Q.  How surprised you were about the defeat of Roger Federer, and how does it change for you the perspective of this tournament? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  The perspective is -- this is always the same question, but the same answer always, too:  Nothing change for me because I am on the other side of the draw, you know. 
 So any player now for arrive to the final, now I am quarterfinals?  Two very hard matches arriving to the finals, so right now I just think about next match against Djokovic, because he's a very good player and going to be a tough match. 
 If I arrive to the final I can't think about Federer, but before, no.  I know every match is very difficult. 
 But for sure it was a surprise for me the loss of Federer.  I wasn't see the match.  I was in the room watching a film, and after I put Internet and I saw. 
 So, well, Volandri, I always say is a very good player on clay.  Obviously it's a surprise he beat Federer.  But, well, some days it's difficult for everyone.  Everyone have bad days, no? 
 And Volandri, I expect he plays very, very good, no?  If he plays very good on clay it's very dangerous place. 

 Q.  Normally when Federer is around you say that he's the favorite.  Now you accept that something has changed, that you are the favorite? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, one of the favorites, for sure. 

 Q.  Thanks. 

 Q.  Match con Djokovic? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, No. 3 in the race.  Winning Miami, winning Estoril, winning Adelaide, playing in the final in Indian Wells.  Very, very difficult match.  He's coming with confidence. 
 Young player, always easier the first year when you -- (in Spanish.)  When it's the first year that you arrive on the tour, that you have success.  Always easier than the next year.  I know for experience the first year was a little bit easier than the other ones because you play with no pression. 
 Everything is new and good.  If you play quarterfinals it's good; if you play semifinals it's good tournament, too.  So that's important because you can play with more calm every match. 
 But he's a very good player and going to be one of the best players in the world for a long time, because he's very young and have a very, very good potential. 

 Q.  Did you think that Djokovic can play as well on clay as he does on hard court? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  He lost to David Ferrer in Monte-Carlo.  David Ferrer is one of best players on clay in the world, and he won in Estoril and he's in quarterfinals here, so... 
 I'm sorry, and last year he play qualifies in Roland Garros, too. 

 Q.  You said inflammation is nothing, but did you need a treatment for it, or not even a treatment? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Treatment? 

 Q.  Drugs.  Not drugs, but treatment? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No.  I just have some antiinflammatories. 

 Q.  Tomorrow are you planning to see the doctor again?  You have to see him, or not? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I have practice at 12:15.  I have practice at 12:15, and I think -- I hope -- it'll be perfect for tomorrow.  But for sure before the practice I go to the doctor and check, but I think it's better. 

 Q.  Will this affect your doubles at all?  Are you still playing? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I hope not.  I'm very happy to be in qualifies of doubles.  I'm enjoying playing the doubles tournament, and I have a very, very nice match tomorrow with the Bryans. 
 I never play against him, so it'll be an interesting match.  Good motivation for me.  I'm going to try my best. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT