INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 9, 2007
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel the match went today?  Are you happy with your form?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, not happy and not disappointed.  Normal.  Nothing special.  Normal match for me.  It was -- I start playing slow, not hitting very hard the ball.  But I was a little bit dizzy in the beginning.   
 It was difficult for me the first eight games.  After I feel a little bit better, but it's fine.  Important thing is the victory, and I (In Spanish)  I wasn't suffer too much.   
 Just one moment 3-2, 15-40 but the rest was okay.   
  
  Q.  Any special reason why you felt dizzy?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I'm going to check with the doctor.  I don't know.  I really don't know.  I don't have nothing, so I was a little bit dizzy before the match.  I go to the doctor and the doctor said it was nothing, but I'm going to come back.   
  
  Q.  What do you think about the next round against Youzhny?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, he's one of the most difficult players for me.  I lost against him this year in Dubai, so, well, going to be a tough match.  I am focus on me, you know, just try and play my best tennis today and tomorrow.  And if I play my best tennis I'm going to have a chance for win.   
 If I don't play the best tennis, for sure I'm going to be a very, very difficult match.  So that's it.  That's it.  Just trying to play my best tennis, and after we will see how it's playing.   
  
  Q.  Why is Youzhny difficult for you?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, the truth is I played with him in the US Open; I have a chance for a win.  Very good chances.  And in Dubai, well, he beat me.  He play better than me.  He was playing very good in Dubai.  But I don't know.  I really don't know.  He's a very good player.  That's true.   
 But every match is difficult against Youzhny.  I lost the last two times, but I have win against him before so it's not just one guy.  It's not like Blake.  I never beat him.   
  
  Q.  Why do you choose to play doubles in tournaments like here?  Do you think it helps you a lot for the singles?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yes.  Today I don't play doubles and tomorrow I don't play doubles.  I play on Friday.  It is important.  Last year I can't play too much doubles because I come back after the injury.  But when I can, I love to play doubles.   
 It's very important, because you improve the return, the rate of return, you improve the volley a lot, and you improve your movement at the net.  So it's important.   
 I am very young.  I just turned twenty.  So if I want if continue to be a better player, I need improve every week, every...   
  
  Q.  I know this is clay, but which of the three other Grand Slams do you think you have the best chance to win?  The three other Grand Slams, aside from Paris, which do you think you have the best chance to win?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  The true is my mind, not Wimbledon; the other two.  The true is I have final in Wimbledon and not the finals in the other two.   
 But, well, I think I can play very good in hard court.  I can play very good in other places.  The thing is play good.  If I am playing my best tennis and at my best level I have chances in every tournament.   
 But I think in Australia and the US Open I feel more comfortable and I have very good tournaments.  Very good three Masters Series maybe, three or four?  Yeah, Madrid, Montreal, and Indian Wells.  And hard I have some tournaments to, like Dubai.  So it's a good place for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT