AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2007
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Fernando was in awesome form out there.  What was it like on the other side of the court?  Could you do much against him? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, he's playing very good level, that's for sure.  Maybe was not a good match for me.  I don't know if I can say I am playing bad, but for sure I can't play at hundred percent, no? 
 I have problems in my leg, so I cannot run.  I can't run a lot.  Was difficult play one match like this, quarterfinals of one Grand Slam, with pain, without the best conditions, no? 

 Q.  When did you hurt your leg? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  After the match.  After the last match of Murray. 

 Q.  Is that what the treatment was for? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah. 

 Q.  What exactly is it? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I don't know.  I really don't know why.  I was thinking before the -- before the match, I was practicing a little bit in the hotel because I was very tired.  Today I going to warm up.  I don't feel very bad.  I just feel very tired.  The leg hurt. 
 When I am on court, I am trying to run.  Hundred percent run, well, I can't.  I can't start.  Was difficult and disappointing for me, no?  I don't know if is a good opportunity because Fernando is very tough match.  But for sure when you are in quarterfinals of a Grand Slam and you can't play with your best feelings, your best conditions, is difficult, no? 

 Q.  Did you expect to win? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, before the match, yes.  When I am on the match, no. 

 Q.  Did you do something in the match against Murray?  When did you feel the pain in that match? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I don't feel the pain in the match of Murray, no?  I feel later.  I feel after.  Well, I don't know.  I was thinking was just tired.  Normal.  I was playing very tough match, I just feel tired.  Maybe is not just tired, because is not normal.  Walking right now I have lot of pain.  Maybe is a little bit more than tired. 

 Q.  What part of your leg is the pain in? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, it's not just the one place.  I have pain here, in my famous ass (smiling).  After I feel a little bit here, too (pointing to the inside and outside of the thigh).  That maybe it's just tired, no?  But down this way and in the ass is very, very painful, no? 

 Q.  What do you do now?  Do you leave Australia as soon as you can?  Where do you play next? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, I going to leave on Friday maybe because tomorrow I don't have plane.  Well, I want to play the Davis Cup after one week.  I hope be hundred percent for Davis Cup.  Is one of my goals always, play for your country is always special for me. 
 But I need go to the doctor and watch what I can I do right now, no? 

 Q.  Will you have a scan? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, not yet.  I just have doping right now.  Nothing else. 

 Q.  How much better a player is Fernando now?  Does he seem more patient? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, he improves his game a lot, no?  He's playing with more calm all the time.  Well, now he's doing a lot of slice, open the backhand.  Sometimes is difficult. 
 Well, today I can't say so much, no, because I am not, I don't know.  (Speaking in Spanish). 
 INTERPRETER:  He really didn't have the chance to see how he plays because he was never at a hundred percent today. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  But for sure he has very good results.  He improves a lot his game. 

 Q.  Do you think he's got the game to beat Roger or Andy in the final? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  You never know.  Roger is always very difficult.  Is another level always.  But you never know.  When you are in one final of Grand Slam, you can win for sure because you are with big confidence.  Anything can do. 
 But we will see the semifinals against Tommy Haas, no? 

 Q.  You will have a scan in Spain? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, for sure, because I have the Davis Cup after one week.  I need know if I going to be in the team or not -  for me and for the rest. 

 Q.  How much more disappointing is it when you have to leave a tournament after losing not being a hundred percent fit than when you lose in a tough match just normally? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, disappointing, no, because I was playing fine.  I was playing good.  I was winning very important match two days ago against Murray.  I was with good confidence for try to play this quarterfinals and try to go to the final, no?  But, well, that's it.  I was trying my best all the time.  I was fighting a lot for being in this quarterfinals. 
 But these things happening sometimes.  Well, it's not a problem.  If I am playing bad, something, well, you can go to the home and say disappointing.  But today I just say, well, I can't do more.  I try my best.  Well, that's it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT