AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2007
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.   
  
  Q.  Could you tell us where you got hit with those two balls, how badly it hurt.  When Kohlschreiber hit you at the net with those two balls, where did it hit and badly did it hurt?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  The first one there in the finger.  The other one I touch with the racquet.  The first one I understand hundred percent fine.  You are in the net, you want to win the point.  But the second one is a little bit struggling because he has all court for him, no?   
 But it's fine.   
  
  Q.  Where did the second one hit you?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, no.  In the racquet.   
  
  Q.  On the racquet?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yes.  For very good luck on the racquet.  For nothing put me in one eye, something, in the face.   
  
  Q.  It was a good fight.  Did you like it?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, I am happy with this match, no?  Was very important for me.  Is very good test because I finish the match very good physically.  The first set I play very good tennis, too.   
 Kohlschreiber play a good match.  Was playing great tennis.  I just play bad maybe the final of third set, no?  I serve bad.  I play without confidence with my serve and with my forehand and backhand.  I miss a lot.   
 But it's fine, no?  After I come back very well with very good attitude.  I am very happy for that, no?  I feel faster on court than the other days, no?  Today I feel the faster day when I start this season, no?  I am happy.  Maybe I improve my tennis here.  I feel better here than Shanghai right now.  I have good confidence next round.   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised by the way he played?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I know every match is tough.  You could see, Roddick was losing two sets to love against Tsonga.  Safin two sets to one.  When you are at the hotel and you saw the TV, when you go on court, you think, I going to have a difficult match, too.   
  
  Q.  Does it give you confidence that you don't play your best and you still win?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, that's very important, no?  Is very important win when you're not playing the best because that's a good point.  That give me very good confidence.   
 But I am happy with my game today.  I feel better.  Maybe is the first match in the year when I feel better, I feel good in some moments, no?  So that's very important.  I am trying every day to get my hundred percent.  But I am fine.  I improving every day, so that's very important for me.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel like you need to improve in your service games?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  He was returning the ball very well.  He was returning very well.  But I won the first set with one break.  I play bad this break, no?  I miss some balls.  But after he play good.  In the third set, he has very good points when I was serving.  Sometimes is not easy, no?   
 But, well, I need continuing improve my serve always.  And sometimes the problem is not just in the serve.  You have one player in front.  You have to compete against him.  He can return very well.  Sometimes you need more luck than the other.   
  
  Q.  Do you expect a more difficult task in the next round?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, every match is very difficult, no?  You never know what's happening the next round.  He is a very good player.  He play very aggressive all the time.  He play very fast.  We will see.  Going to have a difficult match.  I need play my best for win, no?  But I feel better every day and I will try.   
  
  Q.  What do you know about him?  Never played him?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I think I never play against him.  He's a good player.  I saw him lot of time on the tournaments.  I know he has very good backhand.  He play very good all the time, touching the ball very hard.   
  
  Q.  Fans were very loud.  Did the Spanish fans help you or did the German fans bother you at all?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Everything is fine, no?  The atmosphere was fine.  Always here I play good matches here against Hewitt against one Australian.  The people here is very nice, respectful with the game.  Was nice.  The German, the Spanish, so everything fine.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT