US OPEN
September 6, 2006
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






THE MODERATOR: First question, please. Q. Why was it such a struggle to find a rhythm out there today? You've been able to play with a good rhythm throughout this tournament. Why the struggle today? RAFAEL NADAL: I am not agree. But you think that, okay. Not really. Maybe I play my best match in New York here today. My best tennis. Youzhny was playing the unbelievable tennis, especially in the beginning. I have Love 40 in the third set, and in the most important moment I have 5 4, 0 40, one time in the third. I was playing very, very good. For me, I was playing good, no? Not out of rhythm, no? Not out of the rhythm. I am happy with my tennis, but I have I was not playing with my best calm in the important moments in the points. I never say that, no, but, sure, today, I don't have the best of luck. Because if when you have Love 40 and 6 5 and 5 4 in the tiebreak, you touch the net and the ball go out for the baseline, so that's not the best of luck, no?But that's it, no? I say congratulate to Mikhail. He was playing very, very good. I thought I was playing great, too. But after, I was not playing with the best calm in that moments. Q. At the changeover in the fourth set, when you were behind love 5, you looked very, very sad. You sat for a long time. Do you remember what you were thinking, what was going through your mind at that changeover? RAFAEL NADAL: I have a big chance, no? I was have a big chance for be in the semifinals here in the third set because Mikhail, I saw him, he was tired, too, no? And if I win the third, I was playing better than him in the third, no? I have every game in the return, I have 15 30, Love 15, and I win my games easy, no?So I was playing better than him in that moments. And you know I lost a very important I lost an important opportunity for be in the semifinals. And you never know after, no?Sure, was not the best moment, no? Q. Andy Murray said earlier today after losing to Davydenko 6 Love in the fourth set, he said that he was very proud of his accomplishment in so much as he's a young man, he's 19 years old, you're 20, but that he was able to come here and exceed anything he did in the past. Like yourself, he said, I played my best tennis, what more could I do. Is that the way you feel? Are you proud of yourself and what you were able to do in the big picture in this tournament? RAFAEL NADAL: Well, maybe is not the same situation, no? Is a different situations of the career. So Andy is playing good the last tournaments, is playing good in Toronto, was playing good in Cincinnati, play the final the tournament before Toronto. So for him is a good tournament, no? He played no, he played the fourth round here, no?But, sure, the expectations, he's a young guy. His first year in the top positions. So the expectations is not the same for him than for me, no? Sure, I am happy with my game because maybe I play not bad game today. But, sure, I cannot say I am very happy with my tournament. I lost in quarterfinals. I am the No. 2 in the world. So I lost with the last eight. If I am the No. 2, I play the final, no?That's joke, but...It's okay. I know was important chance for me. So I am happy. I improve my tennis here in New York. Is the first year I play better here. But, sure, I am disappointed, no? I need improve, no? My goal now is improve. I was playing not the best moment in the year the last three tournaments. I want improve my tennis. I know today I play good tennis, but I want to improve. My special goal is next year in Australia, no? So I want to improve. I have four months, and I gonna try my best. I gonna try improve every day, work hard every day. Q. What do you need to improve most? RAFAEL NADAL: You always can improve, no? If you have a little bit. It wasn't serve bad, but if you have better service, all change. I need play more aggressive with the return. I am try today. But is not easy. Is not one day. I want to play aggressive today, so is that not true, no? I am trying, but I need improve that. I need improve a little bit more my volley. I always improve, but I need improve more.Q. Considering you're No. 2 and this was a very, very big win, are you at all surprised he had the kind of staying power he had, he never seemed to look shaky at all toward the end? RAFAEL NADAL: You know, with the 5 0 is...If you are 5 4, so we will see, no? But with the 5 0, is different, no? You have a lot of games. Q. Obviously, now, the end of the Grand Slam season. You've had in many ways a remarkable year. How do you look at your year this year in Grand Slams? Are you happy?RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, I can't say I am not happy with my year, no? I play final in French Open, I play final in Wimbledon, I am in quarters here. I cannot say I am not happy with my year. But I need be ambitious, no? I want to play good in every tournament, and I want to play the final in every tournament. I know that's impossible, but I gonna try, no? I need improve for try that, no? Q. Why do you think you didn't win today? Was it the service or what? RAFAEL NADAL: Because I lose. Q. Why do you think you lost it today? The surface?RAFAEL NADAL: Why the surface, no? Is good surface for me. He play very good tennis, and I was playing good, but I was... (Speaking Spanish). THE MODERATOR: He didn't make the most of his chances. He didn't take his opportunities. RAFAEL NADAL: That's it. Not gonna find the surfaces. That's it. The tennis is easy (smiling).Q. In the fourth set, were you still thinking about those lost opportunities you had in the third set?RAFAEL NADAL: He was beginning very fast, very hard in the fourth. I am trying to fight, but I wasn't I don't know, no? The balls is going out all the time. I was not my best in the fourth, no? I know a lost a big opportunity. And after that, Mikhail is playing unbelievable, no, all balls inside, all winners. So, you know, no, if you don't have get the opportunities, the chances, is tough. So that's it. Q. Did you have anything wrong with your ankle? RAFAEL NADAL: It's okay. Is stupid now say anything about that, no? No, it's okay. I never I don't want to speak never when I lose. If I win, I say anything about my ankle. But if I lose, that's as I lose, I lose. No ankle, no pain, nothing. I lose (smiling).Q. It's true, it's normal? RAFAEL NADAL: I lose. He play better than me.Q. Did you feel the crowds were behind you trying to lift you? RAFAEL NADAL: Well, not the best day, no? "Misha, Misha." I listen that more than "Rafa, Rafa" (laughing). No, it's okay. The public is support me a lot in the last days. Today was not the best day, but that's okay. Sometimes good, sometimes with me, sometimes with him. But not influence in the match. Q. For people from the outside, they say the biggest surprise of your year is you made the finals at Wimbledon. Was that a surprise to you looking back, or is it something you...RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, was surprise, no? For me was surprise, too. But I wasn't play bad in Wimbledon three years ago when I beat Ancic in the first round. I lost in the third round against Srichaphan. I play semifinals there when I was Junior, when I was 16. I play against the 18 years old guy. So I know if I am playing good, I can play good in fast surfaces, no? FastScripts by ASAP Sports...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT