US OPEN
August 31, 2006
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. Q. When you lost the second set, was there a feeling of a big upset?RAFAEL NADAL: No, first of all, is the second match. I lost the set, no? I lost one set. I was the match under control maybe in the 6 4, 3 1. But now I play a little bit more defensive, so that's not good, no? Only I can play more easy. So after that I change. I play a little bit more aggressive all the time, and the match was different, no?  Q. You were never worried?RAFAEL NADAL: When I am to the locker room and before the match, I am worried. But the other one, too. The other one maybe is worried about the lose, no, or win? You never know what's happening. Q. Is it sometimes helpful to have a difficult match early in a tournament? RAFAEL NADAL: Can you repeat, please?  Q. Sure. Is it a good thing to have a difficult match early in a tournament? RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, I understand. You never know, no? Sometimes you have a tough match in the second day or the first day, and after you play very good tournament. Sometimes you have a tough match in the second or first day and you lost the next one. I prefer to have a tough one, because you feel the pressure sensations, the difficult moments. So that's important for the next matches, no? So I prefer have a tough one, no? If I am playing good (smiling).  Q. In the third set at 5 4 you were on the verge of being broken. The linesperson calls out, he challenges, you replay the point. It seemed a pivotal part of the match. From your perspective, how did you see that changing the course of the match, that play? RAFAEL NADAL: That ball?  Q. At 5 4, yeah. RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, but the match is continuing playing this point, no? Is not winner for him; he change. He put the ball still in play, so you know, no? So after I miss the first serve and he play the point with second serve. No, no, the match was he was playing a very good game. A lot of winners with the forehand. I defend good, no? Important I stay with calm. In that moment I was with calm, with good mentality, and I can win that game. That game was very important, decisive.  Q. Not only has your record improved, but it seems that you've become quite a trendsetter among young tennis players. How do you feel about so many people paying so much attention to your style? RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, so that's nice, no? That's nice for me, no?I always have I always stop for sign autographs, for say hello to the people. And if I lose and if I win, I always stop for long time for sign autographs, no?  Q. You said yesterday you have a special goal of doing well at this tournament. What result would be a success for you? Will it be RAFAEL NADAL: I say that, too. I say I want to play good. I want to play good, but not any result. I say if I am playing good and I lost third round, gonna be good. If I lost in fourth round, I am playing good. Good. Sure, I want to play the more matches that's possible, no? So sure, I would love play the final here. But if I will play the final, maybe you need play your best. FastScripts by ASAP Sports... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT