ROGERS MASTERS
August 8, 2006
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Your feelings about getting out there and playing a competitive match for the first time since Wimbledon, were you comfortable, did you feel anxious about it?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  So maybe I play a normal match, simple match, nothing special for sure.  You know, after one month is difficult take the rhythm, get the rhythm.  I say that before when I was here two days ago.  Is very difficult the first round after one month.  The most important thing is win, and I win, so I am very happy for that.  Is very important beginning with victory after one month.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel comfortable after a little while?  Did it take some time before you felt okay?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I wasn't feel bad.  I feel not good, but not very bad, especially a little bit worse in the beginning.  But after I play normal match.  I was serving unbelievable in the practicing, in the practices, and today I serve bad.  Is strange, no, because I was serving good.   
 But I going to play doubles now, I don't know, in two hours.  That's going to be important for improve a little bit and for practice a little bit more my serve.  And tomorrow morning I have a warmup.  So we going to see.  I improve a little bit with my serve and a little bit rhythm.  I need one more match maybe, so is important, no?  Those are the two things, the most important things.   
  
  Q.  It was quite a long match.  Was that a help for you, to have a long match?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, when I saw the draw, I say, no, is not easy match.  But if I win, going to be important because I going to run, I going to put a lot of balls in because Massu is not similar player than me, no, but is a clay court player, too, not serve and volley, play attack every time.  Is important for the rhythm.  Is important.   
  
  Q.  A lot of people are hoping you'll meet Roger Federer in the finals.  How do you feel with the comparisons to Roger?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  We are in second round.  I never speak about the final before the Saturday night.  We going to see tomorrow.  I have a difficult match against Lee.  I know from experience every match is tough, so we will see.   
  
  Q.  Is that the important thing, not to look too far ahead?  You start thinking about Federer, you could lose the next round, not be prepared?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I always do the same, no?  I just look for the next match because I know every match is difficult, every match has a difficult moment.  Is important be prepared for every match.   
 I am thinking about the next round always.   
  
  Q.  This year you've won a title in Dubai on hard, you've won the French Open again, and you reached the final at Wimbledon on grass.  You've proved you can play on all services.  Do you feel that has taken your game to a new level now?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Is important for the confidence can play in all surface, no?  I know if I am playing good, if I am playing my best level, I can play good in all surfaces.  So that's important for my game, yeah.   
  
  Q.  What did you do during the break?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  What I was doing?  Fishing.  I can't play too much golf because I have a problem in my hand.  I go -- I was in EuroDisney with my family, 25 persons, cousins, small cousins.  I come to Amsterdam for one day for one thing of Nike.  After I prepare for Toronto, no?   
  
  Q.  When did you restart training?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  First week off doing activities in Mallorca.  Second week practicing.  Not complete week.  Yeah, maybe complete week.  And the third one I go to Amsterdam Wednesday night and I come back from EuroDisney the Saturday night.  I practice the week complete, I practice three days until Wednesday, after three days off, and after every day.   
  
  Q.  The only Grand Slam you didn't perform as well as you could have was the US Open.  I want to know, the way you feel this summer, if this year's schedule will prepare you for a better performance at the US Open?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Is one of my goals of this year, no, playing better in the US Open.  For me, if I lost second round, if I lost third round, is okay, but play good, no?  Every year was playing bad there.  This year maybe I going to change because I am preparing mentally, so I going to try my best.   
 I try my best in every tournament, no?  But in this tournament, I want to play good.  But now I am Toronto.  Toronto, Cincinnati is important, no?   
  
  Q.  Will you get a chance to get out and do anything this week in Toronto, see the city?  What are you hoping to do?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I go out two days ago maybe with Carlos, with Moya.  I was two hours walking near from hotel.  So it's okay.  Good atmosphere in the city.  A lot of people in the middle.  A little bit show in the square.  It's nice, no?   
  
  Q.  Did you get recognized?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Some.  Some ones, yes.   
  
  Q.  Looking back at the Wimbledon final, you did very well.  Now you have had time to think about it, would you have done anything different?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Always you can do something more, no?  You never know.  Always is tough say if I win this game, if I win the other one.   
 I lost.  When you lost, when any player lose because the other one play better, be better prepared for the victory.  Maybe Federer was believing more with the victory than me in Wimbledon, and I believing more than him in French.  So for that reason I winning French and he winning in Wimbledon, no?   
  
  Q.  Do you think if you started better, you might have won?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  You never know, no?  Because I start bad, but in the second set I have the break 5-4 with break, that game is even important in the match.  After that I play very good third set.  And in the fourth I have my chance because I have 2-1, Love-30.  So the match in that moment is not hundred percent for him, no?  Is close because I don't see so much difference of level in that moment, no?  After I miss some balls.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT