WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2006
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  That was a very tough match.  What happened out there?  How would you describe it? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, was very tough, no?  He play a very good match, very complete match, no?  When I had chances in 15-30, 0-30, so every time he had a very good point, very good serves and volleys.  So I had my chance in the first set in the 3-0 in the tiebreak, and 4-1 I had one double-fault.  So that's bad, no? 
 But after I play good all match, no?  I was playing very well.  I play with very good attitude all time because was very tough, no?  So I am very happy for the victory. 

 Q.  You've come back from two sets down before, but to come back on grass, what does this mean to you? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Was tough, no, because he's serving unbelievable.  He was serving unbelievable.  So I was think I can't do more mistakes, no?  So I am trying put the match under pression for him, have a chance I'm put my best attitude.  So I have -- I arrive to the tiebreak, and I play very good tiebreak, no, after. 

 Q.  What I mean is to come back like this on a surface that has been least favorable for you, and to come back and win on grass, what kind of a step forward is this for you? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know, but was very important and I am very happy, no? 

 Q.  What are your thoughts on playing Andre Agassi in the next round? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, is exciting match, no?  Is nice match for me.  So is a nice match for everybody, no?  So I gonna enjoy and prepare good the match, no?  Is tough. 

 Q.  What is the biggest challenge to you in his style of play, and playing him on grass? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Biggest challenge?  No, I know he won here.  He has a very good level here.  But I am in third round, too, no?  I am playing good.  This match is gonna be positive maybe.  So we gonna see, no?  I know I need play my best tennis for win, but I gonna try that, no? 

 Q.  Many years later, after your tennis career, you can be a great linesman.  You show 'out' many times.  It was a example of pressure to Kendrick and this match?  Many times outside, he shot 'out'.  The ball was out.  It was an example of pressure of the match? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, I don't know what's happening, I know, with the lines.  I don't know what's happening in the last months, last tournaments with the referees, no?  Is strange because every time put me a lot of pression with the time.  Today, he put me a warning for time when I am putting the ball for serve.  After, he say me, You can't say wait a second for serve.  That's unbelievable, no?  Because if the -- if Kendrick is serving when I am not prepared, I am prepared.  Not I am doing the towel, no.  When I am in the match here and watching down (standing up), he can serve.  I watch him, when he serving, I said, Wait, one minute, one second.  The referee say me, You can't do that.  That's a new rule, maybe. 
 I don't know, is just for me, no?  I don't know.  After Rome, when Federer say you have coaching and when Ljubicic say the time on Roland Garros, I don't know if is for that reason, no?  But maybe the referees need looks more, no, because is not my fault sometimes.  So that's not nice for me. 

 Q.  The crowd were siding with Kendrick today.  We could hear them cheering.  When you scored, they would moan.  When Agassi comes out, he's such a hero here, will back him as well.  Does it bother you when the crowd are against you, if you like? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I understand perfect, no, so is his last Wimbledon.  I hope I gonna have more (smiling).  So is normal, no?  But I know that and is better if you know, no? 

 Q.  Andy Roddick yesterday told us that Andre Agassi changed the way of playing tennis a bit, that he was the first guy who really swung at the return.  In what way did he influence your game specifically? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Who, Andre? 

 Q.  Andre Agassi, yes. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I saw him lot of times always.  I saw him lot of times when I was kid in the TV, but I never have idol, no.  I only watch me. 

 Q.  After you fell behind two sets, were you nervous at all or worried? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Worried? 

 Q.  Concerned? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Ah, yeah, sure, sure.  You are losing 7-6, 6-3, and he is playing very good.  I am playing well, but I am losing.  Is not for to stay very happy, no? 

 Q.  How frustrating is it to come from Paris where you can master Roger Federer, then come to grass where you can lose two sets to somebody rated 276? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  But that's different sport, no?  That's another surface.  That's different. 
 So, yeah, every match is very difficult.  And if you find any player when he is serving very well, gonna be very tough match, no?  Today, was that.  So I am very happy for this victory.  Sometimes is more important win some matches here than (speaking Spanish) winning here. 
 THE INTERPRETER:  More value. 

 Q.  Coming back from two sets down on grass, how much will today's match help you for the rest of the tournament? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I feel if I gonna lose in the next round, not helping me a lot, no? 
 But, sure, is important have a lot of hours on grass, no, for my improve.  So I always say I put me a goal, no, a special goal is in the next two, three, four years have a chance for play a very good tournament here.  I don't know if this year I gonna play this tournament, but my goal is in the three, four years have the -- will be prepared, no, for this tournament. 
 So if I play more matches here, if I play more hours on this surface, I play more matches, tough matches against big servers, so that's important for my improve, no? 

 Q.  Your belief mentally is to know you can do that on grass, is that good? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  That's very important, no?  Is very important believe you can play good, no? 

 Q.  I noticed after, when you were two sets down, you started to serve and volley.  Do you feel that's something that you need to practice more?  Is that a way forward on grass, to serve and volley for you? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  The serve and volley? 

 Q.  Yes. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Hewitt was winning without serve and volley.  Federer is not always come to the red.  Nalbandian is playing very good and not go to the red - net, sorry. 

 Q.  Today you won some good points going to net. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Huh? 

 Q.  Today you went to the net. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah.  I am playing well in the net, no?  I improve my volley, so that's important because sometimes I can go to the net, no? 
 But I am young, no, I need improve.  So is difficult have a serve and volley.  But you never know, no, if I improve a lot the serve. 

 Q.  You take three balls, sometimes four. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, just three.  Always. 

 Q.  Just three when you serve.  What's the reason?  Is it just routine?  How do you make the choice? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, because sometimes the ball, one ball is like this, one ball is like this. 

 Q.  And you choose which one? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  First serve, the smallest. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT