ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2019
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. NADAL/Y. Maden   
6-1, 6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Congratulations on advancing to the third round.  Can you talk a little bit about the match today?  You had things well in hand the first two sets.  The third set wasn't as easy as the first two.  Something in your game?  Something in your opponent's game?  
RAFAEL NADAL: No, I think it was, yeah, a good match for the first two sets.  Not unbelievable, but, you know, 6-1, 6-2, with positive feelings.   
Then in the third, being honest, I think I lost a little bit concentration and intensity.  And then all the match became difficult.  That's all.  No, no, I had opportunities with 1-All I think I had Love-30, then I had the break in 3-2.  He break me back.  Then I break again, 40-15.  A game that I made two double faults for 5-3.  So he break me back.   
That's just about concentration, my feeling, because the feeling on the match had been positive.  Positive thing is every time that I had the mistake, then I had the break again, and that's the good news.   
 Q.  Today it's Wednesday, Kids' Day, and when we ask the kids, most of them you are their favorite player.  Can you explain why?  What do you think that the kids like so much about you?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I always had good connection with the kids, no?  Being honest.  I love the kids, in general.  I love to spend time with them.   
I don't know.  Being honest, I think I am natural, no, no, no, passionate, that's all, no?   
But is good to have all around kids.  It's great news, because they are the future of this sport.  Not only like tennis players.  Like fans, too.  Is good to have all this young men and women around.   
 Q.  Of all the surfaces in tennis, would you say that clay is perhaps the one that you've got to have fun most when playing on?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I had fun in all the surfaces.  Normally is funnest when you win (smiling).  It's true in clay I win more than in the rest of the surfaces, but I enjoy playing in all the surfaces.  I have been very competitive in every surface.  Sometimes people think that I am clay-court player because I achieved all the things that I achieved on clay, but on hard I achieved a lot, too (smiling).  And grass.  Indoors less (smiling).   
 Q.  Are you satisfied with the level of your game, or do you think there is something to improve?  
RAFAEL NADAL: There is always things to improve.  No, that's part of the day of work.  But for the moment have been enough to be in the third round.  Two good matches.  Three sets.  Now I have a very tough opponent in front, a player who plays very well against top players, too.  He's a top player.  He had some injuries.   
But is a very tough third round to play against David.  So is the moment to making a step forward.  Good thing is I have good feelings, and I hope to be ready to play at the level that I need.   
 Q.  When people look at the scoreboard today, some people say it's a comfortable win.  When you are on the court and you are playing well, does it feel to you like things are easy and natural and coming easily to you?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I don't like the word "easy," because when you win always look easier.  When you play well, things looks easier.  When you are playing bad, things looks very difficult.   
Easy is never, but I can say have been a comfortable victory.  I have been in control most all the time.  And that's the only thing that really matters.   
 Q.  Speaking of David Goffin, can you elaborate a little bit and tell me what challenges he brings to you?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Oh, he's a very complex player.  He has all the shots.  He's a player who have an amazing career, and we practiced a lot of times.  We know each other well.   
He's an opponent that you need to play very well to have success against him.  He is quick.  He has very good angles.  Gonna be, being honest, a big challenge to be in the third round.  Here we are.  I gonna try my best to be ready for it.   
 Q.  You played David three times on clay.  What was the match the most difficult you remember against him?  
RAFAEL NADAL: I remember Madrid.  And the other two?  Monte-Carlo?  Two times in Madrid?  No.   
 Q.  Barcelona?  Monte-Carlo?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Well, being honest, I don't remember very well the Barcelona and Monte-Carlo ones.  The Madrid one, I remember the match because have been a good match, because we play night session.  I remember some couple of games in the second set that have been great shots in a row, so have been a very, yeah, very good match in general terms.   
Good level of tennis.   
 Q.  (Question off microphone.)  
RAFAEL NADAL: Ah, I remember now.  The referee made a mistake, no?   
But being honest, I don't think much about what happened in the past.  Is long time away.  The real thing is I know the kind of player that David is, and I know how well I have to play if I want to have chances to have success against him.  So that's it.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  I thought you were going to be a bit upset because of the third or your double faults in the third set.  How long can you be upset when you play badly?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Well, until the next shot or the next game, because after all, that's the sport.  If you lose time being upset, then you lose more points.   
So the points you lose through playing badly are lost.  So you shouldn't lose any more from being upset.  Nothing else.   
Well, okay, I made a few mistakes.  What do you want me to say?  I won 6-1, 6-2, 6-4.  Well, I can't tell you it cannot happen.  It happened today.  It doesn't happen that much.  Well, the reality is that when I was able to break again, I was able to win.   
Well, it's also part of playing in five sets, because they are longer games and longer matches, and it's more difficult to keep focused.   
But he played well.  He did a few good things.  He changed strategy, and he became more aggressive.  This obviously complicated the situation a little bit.   
But in general, okay, I made mistakes, but I was able to correct that rather quickly.   
 Q.  How do you feel physically?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Well...   
 Q.  No problem?  
RAFAEL NADAL: No, nothing alarming or worrying.  Nothing that would prevent me from playing.   
 Q.  The shoes you're wearing are a bit special.  Can you tell us a little bit about them?  Did you take part in designing them?  What did you do with what you were wearing throughout your career?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Well, we have a museum in Playa Mujeres.  My logo is on many things, shoes.  And honestly, every week we give gifts for foundations or trusts or charities, or people who have helped me through the tournament.  I make them gifts or my family, one of my cousins has the same-sized shoes as I have.  Well, as usual, I take part in the decision.  If I don't want to wear something, I don't wear it.   
But on this particular topic, Nike had the idea of doing something to celebrate my 11 victories here, which is why I have different shoes.   
The most important thing, anyway, was the fact that I should feel good in these shoes.  I'm feeling very much at ease with these shoes, and I'm playing with them.   
 Q.  The days are not so sunny.  Yesterday was raining somewhat.  Today it was a bit drier.  When you're going to play Goffin, what weather would be better for your game in front of Goffin?  
RAFAEL NADAL: Sun.  I like good conditions, but people who don't understand this game think that I play better when I can play slowly.  It's the contrary, I like playing when the ball is fast.   
But if you ask me what I prefer, is pleasant temperature and sun.  The same as usual.   
 Q.  Looking at your matches in general, one can see that you're much more to the back than other players.  Is that to help your serve, or is it something else?  
RAFAEL NADAL: To be honest, the way in which I play on clay is nothing new.  I have played like that all my life.   
The fact that I'm more at the back means that I can maybe hit quality balls, or it gives you a few free balls and it enables you to take initiatives or neutralize balls that are rather high, so it gives you an advantage probably when I'm returning.  But you know you're on a given surface, it's not mathematical.  Sometimes it's better to be more to the front; other times it's better to be back.   
Well, so long as I have discipline in my game, it's okay.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT