INTERNAZIONALI D'ITALIA
May 13, 2006
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Does it mean something to you that Federer had a tougher match than you and took longer time to win his matches?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  No, not really.  What matters is that I am in the finals.  This is what is important.  I am happy to be looking forward to playing against him tomorrow.   
  Q.  Have you ever played better than you are right now?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I don't know, no.  But I am playing very well, very good.  I don't know if sometimes I play better, I don't know.   
 But maybe today and in this tournament I am play very good, and I am happy with my level.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  You are much more -- I don't know how to say that.  People like you very much here in Rome, much more than Federer.  We've noticed that during the matches there are a lot of children who support you very much.  Does it disturb you, or is it something positive?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  No, it doesn't bother me at all.  I like it very much.  I mean, it's great.  I remember last year's final, and it was amazing.  I was losing in the fifth set and it was only thanks to the public that I could recover.   
 So I only have words to thank them, and that's why I sign all autographs I can and I try to spend as much time as I can with them to say thanks.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Will you feel an extra pression tomorrow because you have this record which you could beat?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  No.  What I think about is just my final.  This is one of the biggest tournaments in the world, and to be in the final and to win the tournament is my goal.  If I can beat the record, fine, it's an extra happiness.  But if I don't, I mean, the tournament is more important.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Are you surprised that you are in such a great shape at the moment?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  Yes, I am.  I'm very happy, of course.  I couldn't have imagined it.  I went through some very difficult times, so I am very happy.  I am very pleased.  I am much happier than last year at this time.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  People think that you are favorite tomorrow because you won many times against him.  What do you think?  Do you think that, too?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  No, not at all.  I think the No. 1 is always the favorite.  He's a huge player, an excellent player.  So the fact that I've won sometimes with him only give me more confidence for tomorrow.  I know that I have to play hundred percent if I want to beat him, and this is what I am going to try to do.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  You're obviously playing very well on red clay.  Do you think there is something you can improve on your game?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  There is always something you can improve, obviously, on all sectors of the game.  I can serve better.  I am serving well, but I could serve better.  My forehand could be harder still.  My backhand could be -- I could hit harder as well.  I think I could come more into the courts.  My volleys could be better.   
 I mean, there's always something you can do better.  I don't like to make -- to compare with the last years, but I think that I don't know if I play better now, but I know that I know more things than before.   
 BENITO PEREZ-BARBADILLO:  Also he said he is improving his play at the net.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Will you live the final in the same way tomorrow, or will it be somehow easier because you already be in the finals last year?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  Yes, of course the experience helps, but it's something very special and it's good tension, it's positive.  I like it as well.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Do you think it's easier to play nonfavorite against Coria or favorite against Federer?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  In fact, I think I was favorite last year and not this year.  This is my opinion.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Last year we had a very special final, reach an emotion.  It was a very, very long final.  Are you ready to play five hours tomorrow as well?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  Well, if I want to win, maybe I will have to.  I am ready for that.  But I think with Federer is different because he doesn't play in the same way, so I think is not gonna last that long.  But maybe is gonna last longer, so better not say anything.   
 BENITO PEREZ-BARBADILLO:  He also actually said, because it was a funny quote for you, the final here last year was five hours, but if you tell me I'm going to win, it can last 20 hours if it wants - just as long as I win.   
 Then he also said I think it's going to be shorter because the points against Federer are shorter than against Coria.  But maybe we'll have a 24-hour final, I don't know.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Do you think that tomorrow Federer will play more aggressive and will come to the net more often?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  Well, I don't know.  I'm not in his mind.  I think he will play his game, first of all.   
  Q.  Will you adopt the same game plan as in Monte-Carlo, or will you play a little bit different?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Me?   
  Q.  Yes.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I always say if the game are good, I don't gonna change, no (smiling).   
 But I always try play my game, no.  Play my game, and if I play good my game, I can lose perfect because he playing well.  I can lose, sure.   
 But I, for play good, I need play my game.  If I am trying to do some things difference, I don't gonna play good, no.  Because every player for play good need to play his game, no?   
 You understand, because I don't know if I am (laughter)...   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Why do you say you're not the favorite, to convince us or yourself?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  I said just because I believe it and I'm not gonna say anything more.  It's just that I think the No. 1 is always the favorite.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  And who is No. 1 on the clay court for you?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  Last year it was me.  For the moment it's going fine for me, but we'll see at the end of season.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT