INTERNAZIONALI D'ITALIA
May 9, 2006
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Do you think it was a tough first match before the final?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  No, we just in second round.  I cannot think about a final for the moment.  It was a very tough match, as I expected.  He beat me in Miami.   
 First set was easier than I thought, but then things got more difficult for me because he knows me very well and he knows how to play me.   
 So I'm very satisfied that I could win in the end.  I'm very pleased with this result.  It was very important for me, but I have a very tough round next round, so I'm focusing on each match.   
  Q.  What does he do that you don't like so much when you play against him?  Is it the forehand?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I don't know, no.  Maybe because when you practice every day with one people, you know exactly.  And he is one of the best players in the world on clay, no, when he is playing well.  You remember, no, two years ago he won here.   
 So when he play well, is one of the best players in the world on clay - well, in all surfaces, no, but in clay, too.  And especially that he knows me very well.   
 You know, play against one player before, he play five Masters, so is a very good player [sic].  I am not seeded -- no, I, yes.  He is not seeded, and I am No. 2.  For the first round, is one of the worst first rounds, no, I think.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  You are very close friends.  Will you talk about this match?  Do you talk about matches?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  Yes, of course we do.  We are just friends afterwards.  It depends on the player.   
 Everybody wants to win, that's normal.  On the court, we want to win, but outside, we are friends and we forget the matches as soon as they are by.  It depends.  I forget them very quickly.  We are just friends.  No problem.   
 We don't have any problems, because he is a great person and we know each other very well and we get along very well.   
  Q.  Did you play against him in Mallorca before coming on the tour?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, yeah, I play with him when I was 14 years old, no.  Or 13, I don't know.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Talking about your next opponent, which is the one you fear most?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  Well, the one who is going to win because obviously he is the one who is playing better.  Everybody is playing fine.  Volandri should be favorite, but you never know in tennis.   
 So we'll see.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  What sort of news is it for you to see then Gaudio, Coria and Ferrero lost today?  Is it good news or bad news?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  I think about myself first.  Of course if they are friends of mine, I like them to win.  But, I mean, I think about myself.  That's the most important.   
  Q.  How do you feel physically now?  Are you tired because of all the matches you played recently?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Tired, no.  No.  Normal, no?   
  Q.  (Question translated after exchange.)   
RAFAEL NADAL:  (Answer given in Italian.)   
 BENITO PEREZ-BARBADILLO:  At the beginning, he said when he loses, he tends to forget very quickly.  He is happier when he wins than more sad when he loses.   
 THE TRANSLATOR:  But the beginning?  That was not the beginning.   
 BENITO PEREZ-BARBADILLO:  That was the beginning.   
 THE TRANSLATOR:  No, I thought you said something else before?  Doesn't matter.   
 He said he was tougher with Moya in Miami because that match was a special match, and he was a little bit nervous and he was quite sad afterwards.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Speaking in Italian and in Spanish.)   
 THE TRANSLATOR:  Okay, correction.   
 BENITO PEREZ-BARBADILLO:  Well, he said basically that he was nervous not because of the match against Moya, because he wanted to defend a lot of points.  He wanted to play Miami to have good feelings.   
 In the end, in Monte-Carlo that was fine.   
  Q. (Through translation).  You did a fabulous passing shot.  It's not really human.  How do you explain that?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  Well, that happens.  I mean, I'm surprised, as you, that it's in the courts.  Well, that's it.  It just happened.   
 I think that the last backhand was very well, too.  I was surprised as well.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  So you always moving and you always doing something on court.  Are you the same off the court?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  Yes, I was worse than that in the past, but my team forced me to slow down.  They don't let me do so many things now.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Continuing his answer in Italian and in Spanish.)   
 THE TRANSLATOR:  Does anyone want to translate that?   
 BENITO PEREZ-BARBADILLO:  We're not able to (laughing).   
 THE TRANSLATOR:  Can you say it in English?  I can say something.  I can say a little of what he said.  I can summarize, if that's enough for you.  I'll do what I can, my best.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  When I lost the second set, I saw the "phantom" of Miami (laughter).  He ask me that (pointing to a journalist).   
 And I answer, yes, I saw that, no (laughter)?   
 But I have a little bit good luck in the first game in the third set in the 15-30 (speaking in Spanish)...   
 In 15-30, I play with the second serve and he play with the forehand.  Touch bad the ball, and go out.  That point is very important, no.   
 And after, in the 4-2, I have 15-40, and he miss take the forehand in the return, so after I have an ace in the 30-40.  So important ace, no, my first ace in the game and in important moment, no?   
  Q.  Very good.  Thank you.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  You're welcome (smiling).   
  Q.  Are there some things in your game from today that you need to improve to win this tournament and maybe go all the way in Paris next month?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Maybe in the first set I was playing very, very good, yeah?  I think.  I don't know.  Outside of the court, what do you look?  You look.   
  Q.  In the game you played today.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, yeah, but I say in the first set maybe I am -- I was playing very well.  After, I little bit shorter, I go little bit...   
 BENITO PEREZ-BARBADILLO:  Back.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  A little bit back too far, too far.  And Moya have the chance for go inside the court all the time, no.  But is not easy because he is playing very aggressive with all shots, especially with his forehand.  So is not easy.   
 But I need to improve little bit with my serve.  Maybe I am playing good - maybe.  I don't know.   
  Q.  (Through translation.)  Volandri came to Miami to practice - Mallorca to practice - but you couldn't do that because you was injured.  How come?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation.)  Well, in fact I didn't know he was coming.  I met him, it was one day.  It was with Carlos.  So I knew that he was there and they were practicing together.  But, in fact, I was just focusing on myself and my injury.  I didn't know it.   
 BENITO PEREZ-BARBADILLO:  He went to Carlos Moya's fitness center.  Moya has a fitness center called Pro Fitness.  He went there, and that's when he saw Volandri.  He didn't know.   
  Q.  What do you think about Roger Federer practicing against left-handed players?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know, no.  I don't know.  I can say nothing, no.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT