NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 24, 2006
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  It looked like you were in really good control after the first set.  What happened? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, no, maybe I can't -- I lost my second -- the second game with my serve with 30-Love and he play very, very good after.  He play very good.  For sure I didn't play my 100%, but he play very good, too. 
 I just want to say congratulations to Carlos because he play very good. 
 Q.  The shots that you normally hit for winners today in the second and third set, they were not going in.  Did you become a little too conservative?  Did you take less risks after that? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, no, no.  Maybe the winners is going out, not going in. 
 But, no, I don't play that defensive maybe.  He play very tough, and I play -- I don't play bad, but in every important point, in my 40-Love, the first game in the third, I can't win, no.  He play good, he play with confidence, and I don't play good the important moments.  When I need my winner, the winner go out, or go in, always.  And he play very tough. 
 Q.  What is it like for you to play him?  I know that you always admired him and everything growing up.  What is it like to face him?  Is it different from anybody else? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  For me is another match.  Nothing special, no.  Just, he is my best friend in the tour.  I know him very, very good.  He know me very good.  Is not a special match, but is my best friend. 
 Q.  You've played him three other times.  Has he ever beaten you with a topspin lob?  You broke him in the first game of the third set with a backhand topspin lob. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I don't know.  Maybe in the first game he made the lob, but I don't know that if he want do the lob, no (speaking in Spanish). 
 BENITO PEREZ-BARBADILLO:  He doesn't know if he really meant the lob, or if he hit it wrong. 
 Q.  How disappointing is it?  I mean, obviously, you've played great here the last two years.  Fabulous matches against Federer.  There were a lot of expectations.  Can you just talk about your feeling going out so early? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Sure.  I am not very happy, no.  I lost in first round.  So that's the tennis, no.  Sometimes win, sometimes loss.  So I try my hundred percent.  My physical condition is not my best now, I think, especially after my (speaking in Spanish)... 
 BENITO PEREZ-BARBADILLO:  When he turned his ankle in Indian Wells. 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I have some problems when I play large points, when I go with strength to one side.  But that's not a special excuse, no. 
 But he played better.  That's all.  For sure I am a little bit disappointed, but, you know, in three weeks I gonna play in Monte-Carlo so I gonna prepare with my six senses for the clay season, no. 
 BENITO PEREZ-BARBADILLO:  Why six? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  (Speaking in Spanish). 
 BENITO PEREZ-BARBADILLO:  You have five senses, gonna add one more. 
 Q.  How busy will your clay court season be?  How many leadups before the French Open? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yes, I gonna play Monte-Carlo, Barcelona, Rome and Hamburg. 
 Q.  Was he taking you off your pace today?  Was he controlling the pace? 
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know, but I lost 6-1, 6-1, so the score say all, no (smiling). 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT