PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 17, 2006
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  What turned it around there late in the first set and through the second set?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I think the match beginning very close, first game, very tough, large points.  I can made the break for 5-2.  In the 5-2, beginning, unbelievable windy - windy against me, so I have problems.  I play bad one game with my serve, and he play good.   
 His game after made the 5-5 against wind him, no?  So after I win my game with the wind in my favor, so that's normal.  After he has 30-Love for go to a tiebreak.  I play two good points, one good passing shot, he miss one ball with his forehand, and I won the first set, no?   
 The second set, I begin very tough.  He has some misses, and I escape in the score.   
 ATP:  "I ran away with the match."   
  Q.  Was Rafael accurate with all his first serves in the second set?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I think I miss.  That's impossible.   
  Q.  The stats say you were perfect in the second set.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah?  A hundred percent?   
  Q.  That's what the statistics said.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Oh, yes?  So is bad news because I am serving very slow.  Is not a good statistic.   
  Q.  Do you think he mentally let down in the second set?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Maybe when I made the first break, he go a little bit down, no?  I continuing hundred percent and I can run away in the score (smiling).   
  Q.  How are you running with your ankle?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, it's okay.  I don't see the ankle because yesterday I have like this (indicating a large size, swelling).   
 ATP:  Sprain.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I have, but not too big.   
  Q.  So today you woke up in the morning, and you could move it?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I sleep with the foot like this (indicating elevated), ice all the time.  So I am doing my best, me and my physio to play for every match, no?   
  Q.  When you were running tonight, how did the ankle feel?  Could you run with no pain?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Maybe I run good.  Maybe I run good.  But in some movements, I have a little bit pain.  But I am very happy I can run.   
  Q.  Have you ever been timed in a hundred-meter dash?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I don't know.  Do you think very fast (smiling)?   
  Q.  Yes.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Or very slow?   
  Q.  What about playing against James Blake?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I going to have a very difficult match.  He's playing very tough, unbelievable forehand.  I watch him today.  So I will need to play my best for try the match -- for try win this match.  I have (indiscernible) motivation.  I lost against him the US Open last year.  My worst tournament maybe in the year.  So I want to play good tomorrow.  I want to try play a nice match.   
 For me, if I am playing the final here -- a good result, for me playing the semifinal, but is a good chance to stay in the final, maybe.   
  Q.  Did you feel at the US Open you did not play your best tennis or did he play so well?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  He in the US Open?  Maybe he play well in the US Open, no?  For sure I wasn't playing well, but not against him.  Against him, I play my best match in the US Open.  But I was playing I think the worst moment in the last year, the US Open.   
  Q.  Why did that happen?  You were playing good tennis in the summer coming into the US Open.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, I was playing in Montreal.  Maybe I made a mistake because after Cincinnati, maybe it's better if I don't going to play in Cincinnati.  I think is better.   
  Q.  Because you played too much?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I play too much, and after I want to go at home.  If I play Cincinnati, maybe --   
 ATP:  I should have stayed in the United States and not gone back home.   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  In that moment, that's my decision, so I know for the future.   
  Q.  Is it important for you to get revenge in matches against big players when you've lost one?  Does it motivate you?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I don't want the revenge.  I want to play good every match.  One time I lose, I lose.  He play better.  I don't want the revenge, no?  I want to play good.  I know if I am playing good, I have chance always.  And if I am playing good, he play unbelievable, good play.  The tennis is that.   
  Q.  You use topspin more than other players.  When you were coming up as a junior, were you trying to put on more topspin?  Did you have an idol like Bjorn Borg?   
 RAFAEL NADAL:  I never have any idol.  I am trying improve in my game, but I don't have never any idol, no.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT