ROGERS MASTERS
August 9, 2005
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you give us an update on your hand or finger? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I am okay.  I only have little bit cramps in the beginning of the third.  But after, I feel good.  I stop the cramps. 

Q.  Have you had problems like that before?

RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, sometimes I have this problem, but is not important problem.  Normally he come for two games or little bit time, and after go out. 

Q.  Was that a tougher match than you would have liked today?  Would you have liked an easier match?

RAFAEL NADAL:  No, no.  I know Moya is a very good player.  I know is very difficult match.  In the court, I think we play good, Moya and me play good, play very good match.  I think I have lot of chances, a lot of breakpoints in the second set, in the third too, and I can't do the break.  That's the thing because I go to the third.  He only has one breakpoint and I have 15 and I only do two (smiling).  Is a little bit little. 

Q.  You've known Moya for a long time.  Can you talk about how playing against him in practice helped you? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  Yes, we practice always together in Mallorca, no?  We have very good relation.  Is my best friend in the tour.  I don't know.  I know him -- I was know him five years before.  We practice a lot of time.  We know all about the game (laughter). 

Q.  He actually said you helped him more than he helped you during those years when you were hitting together.  Is he just being kind or is that true? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't think so.  I don't know.  He help me a lot because when I was not professional, I can practice with a very good player, with a top 10 player, and that's very important for improving in my level.  And, I don't know, is possible I help him with the motivation because I am young and he watch me, and that's important for him, too. 

Q.  Second set tiebreaker. 

RAFAEL NADAL:  Unbelievable (smiling).  Best tiebreak of my career. 

Q.  You committed the first double-fault. 

RAFAEL NADAL:  In the match. 

Q.  And two unforced errors.  What happened? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know yet.  No, I think I have a lot of chances in the set.  And after when I arrive in the tiebreak, I think is not possible.  Is very important the first point because he miss the first serve and I play -- I don't play aggressive in the second serve.  He go to the net and I have one passing shot out.  The second set I have the double-fault.  Third point he play good point, so 3-0.  After with 3-0 is not easy because he was serving unbelievable, no?  And with 5-0, is finish. 

Q.  What was the difficulty converting the breakpoints, 13 of the 15 you did not convert?  Was that because he played very well on those points or was it something you didn't do? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know, because in the statistics this year, before this tournament, I am the best player in the breakpoints convert.  Today I think he play -- he serve unbelievable in the breakpoints.  He have some aces, a lot of good first serves, and I think for me I don't play -- (switching to Spanish). 

RAFAEL NADAL:  And that's the most important thing, I think.  If I play a little bit more aggressive, the opponent have more pression.  But I don't play aggressive, and for that I only win two breakpoints of 15. 

Q.  Do you feel a lot of pressure being the top seed in this tournament?

RAFAEL NADAL:  No.  I feel the same pression like the other players.  I want to win matches, and the other players for sure, they want to win, too, no?  So I feel the normal pression.  I feel my pression because I want to win every match every time when I go to the court.  I want to win the match.  I want to play good.  But I think I feel normal pression.  The more pression in the year is in Roland Garros, I think.  But after that, I feel the normal pression, not special. 

Q.  Are you pleased with your game today? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, I am happy.  I think for the first match, the first match is never easy.  I think today we play a very good level, the two, he and me, no?  So I am happy.  And it's important win the first match with three sets, with important moments, with tough match.  That's important for the confidence.  And finally win the match, that's important, too, no? 

Q.  When you play against Carlos, are you still aware that it's him or do you block that out when you're playing him? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, of course, I know that.  I don't say a lot of -- (switching to Spanish.)  


Q.  You're only 19 years old.  Do you feel you can still get much better? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  Of course, I think, I hope.  I am too young.  I want improve a lot of things in my game.  For stay in the same place, I always say the most important thing is the illusion, the humble, and to improve every day.  So I need improve a lot of things in my game and I am working about that. 

Q.  What did you think when you first saw that Carlos would be your first match in this tournament?  How did you react? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, it's okay.  We know that in the plane.  We travel together, the same flight.  Is okay.  Is not easy.  I prefer another player because he's a very good player.  He's a very good friend.  But the draw, you know, every time is different, is difficult, and it's okay.  We know that. 

Q.  You said you already played against Mello.  What kind of player is he, your next opponent? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  Very tough match.  I think Mello is a very good player.  I was play with him in Brazil, in semifinal in Brazil.  Was a very tough match.  I won 6-4 in the third.  But I was losing 4-2 in the third, and ball for 5-2 down.  So I know is a difficult match and I need play my best for try the  victor. 

Q.  Carlos said it might not be easy but he feels you have the talent to win this tournament.  How would you react to something like that? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know, every tournament is very difficult.  And if is in hard, is one Masters Series.  So the best 50 players stay here, and now is very difficult win the tournament.  But is very difficult for all players, I think.  Roddick sometimes have a little bit more chance or Hewitt.  But Hewitt retired today.  But I know is very difficult.  I only want to play my best.  I feel good on court.  If I win the next match, I am in the third round.  When one player stay in the third round, is only two matches or three matches if one player stay playing good, he have chance always, no? 

Q.  You seem to have more fun out on the tennis court than most people do.  Is that mostly your personality as a young, energetic 19-year-old or because you have all the wins this year? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  I think is my personality.  I think is my personality, no?  I like the competition a lot.  I enjoy the game.  And I like the difficult moments.  I like the pression.  I feel good when I stay in court, if I don't play very bad, I am happy for play this tournament.  Is nice tournament.  I am in very good position now, No. 2.  I am happy for that because I never think that six months before, one year before, when I come here, I am beginning for one injury.  When one player stay injury for three months, and you know you are watching your ranking going down, after that is always more important for every player, no? 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT