TELECOM MASTERS ITALIA
May 7, 2005
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English, please.


Q.  Today you really were tired, yes?

RAFAEL NADAL:  A little bit, yes.  I feel little bit tired mentally and physical, huh. But I fight every ball, and this is the difference for won the match, no, I think.


Q.  When you made that backhand crosscourt to take yourself to matchpoint, you didn't seem tired.  I thought you were going to jump over the grandstand.  It was a great backhand crosscourt.

RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I don't remember very well, but (smiling)... That is in the moment, I don't feel nothing.  I only feel happy for the point.  I do when I can, I don't know.


Q.  What made the difference between you and Ferrer today?

RAFAEL NADAL:  No difference, I think.  I think he play better tennis the first two sets.  He play better.  He miss two balls, two double-faults in the 1-1, 3-Love, two forehands outside, and I can come back to the match, no? But he's playing very, very well.  The third set I feel better.  I play better and better in the third set.  I am happy because I finish the match with my best level in the match, no?


Q.  If it is Agassi, you've never played him.  How do you look at playing Agassi?

RAFAEL NADAL:  I want to play against Agassi, no?  Is one of the best players in the history.  I know if won Agassi, is very difficult match.  But I want play against him because I never play and he is one of the best players I know.  And I want to play against him before he retire, no?


Q.  Do you have a blister on your hand?

RAFAEL NADAL:  I have only (showing his hand)...


Q.  Doesn't bother you?

RAFAEL NADAL:  No, no, it's okay.  It's okay.


Q.  What do you mean by being "mentally tired"?

RAFAEL NADAL:  Yes, only a little.  But I improve with the match, no?Normal, no?  I won a lot of matches.  I play too much.  Is not easy match for me.  He play very good and is a difficult match, no? I cannot play very well every and every day, no.  I don't play my best tennis today in the first two sets, but the important is I come back in the third.  I improve my tennis, no?


Q.  Ferrer saved two matchpoints.  Did you think you were in trouble then?

RAFAEL NADAL:  Of course.  5-5 in the third set, I have problems.  But he have problems, too, no (smiling)?


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT