ROGERS MASTERS
August 10, 2005
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  It was hard to believe that you nearly lost to him last time.  What was so different this time?  Was it because it was a different surface?  Were you very different?  
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Is different situation of the year, no?  In Brazil, I was playing good, but I don't have this confidence, no?  And he play in his country.  He was play very good match.  I don't play the same.  I play a lot of better today, so much better today.  And, I don't know, I remember this match, lot of public support him.  I think today is all different.  I think I improve in my game, no?  
 
Q.  You're improving confidence and also getting better on the faster surfaces? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I think I don't play bad in fast.  In indoor, I don't have a good results.  But in hard court, I was play good in Australia, fourth round; in Miami, final.  That's a very good result, no?  If I am playing well, I can play good in this surface.  
 
Q.  How often have you played under lights?  Do you mind playing under lights? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I play lot of times in night.  No, yesterday is a little bit difficult in the doubles.  I don't see very well.  But I think yesterday because I am a little bit tired.  Today I feel better.  Is different situation.  Yesterday I play very tough match single.  Today the single is different.  The light is very good.  
 
Q.  A lot of players have talked about adjusting to the fast court and the balls.  Did you find it more comfortable today than the last round? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, I think is a little bit fast, the court.  Is a little bit fast than Miami and Indian Wells.  US Open, too, I think is a little fast this one.  But we can play on this court, no?  I feel good.  I am playing good.  I was practicing very well the first days here.  I play a very tough match yesterday, a good match.  That's important for my confidence.  Today, I play with a lot of confidence.  All the time a lot of concentrating, no?  
 
Q.  When you played Carlos yesterday, you said your personality didn't really come out.  Did it come out tonight? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yes, I think is normal.  
 
Q.  You seem like you are more relaxed. 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I win a little bit 6-1, 6-2.  
 
Q.  Andy Roddick said it was important to play with the same balls in each tournament leading up to a Grand Slam.  I think possibly Andre Agassi agrees, although he didn't say so.  Greg Rusedski said a players union should be formed. 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, because in the US Open I think we play with Wilson.  But in all Masters Series, I think ATP have contract with sponsor is Penn, so we play all Masters Series with the same, Penn ATP.  So we know that.  Before the Grand Slam, before the US Open, I think we have New Haven.  New Haven I think is the same balls maybe, is Wilson.  In the Masters Series, we always play with Penn.  I think is better play with the same ball, but that's what it is.  
 
Q.  But it doesn't always happen.  Last week they played with a different ball from this week. 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, but that's the life.  We play all year with different balls.  I play in Bastad with one ball.  I go to Stuttgart next week with different balls.  We know that.  We need to play with that.  
 
Q.  How do you control them, because you use so much spin?
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah.  Some balls is a little (changing to Spanish) -- 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I think the Penn is good ball for the topspin players.  
 
Q.  You're playing Grosjean next week.  How do you feel about it? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, I know is very difficult match.  He's a very good player.  He play very good in this surface, no?  This surface a little bit fast, and that's better for him.  And he play a very, very good match for win, no?  But I going to try.  Is very important match.  If I get the victory, I stay in quarterfinal.  Quarterfinal in Masters Series in hard is very good tournament for me, no?  I hope play my best tomorrow, no?  I know is very difficult match.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT