WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2005
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  English questions first for Rafael, who will be assisted, if necessary.  
 
 
Q.  What did you learn from today? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  What happen?  
 
Q.  What did you learn? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, today I think he play very good match.  I have my chance in first set, in the first game, Love-40.  In the second set, I have -- I do the break, but he have chance at 15-40, I think.  After, in the third set, I think I have a very, very good chance for do the break, no?  I can't.  I have a little bit bad luck in the third.  After, he play very good, no?  He play better than me today.  That's happen.  
 
Q.  Was this what you feared would happen because your game is so clay court based?
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I think I am playing good on grass, no?  I feel I have good feelings.  But, you know, I speak every day, if you find any player when he serve good all match is difficult.  Muller today served very good level all time, no?  And that's that easy.  
 
Q.  Muller said afterwards he thinks because of the way you play, although you fight hard, because you don't serve and volley, you may never win Wimbledon. 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I think I need improve some things, but I am improving myself.  I think when I improve a lot of myself, I can won a lot of matches here, no, because I am fast.  I need improve my volley.  I need to improve my volley, I need to improve my serve, I need improve my confidence with the game on grass, no?  And for that I need play lot of matches.  
 
Q.  You looked more comfortable on the Centre Court than Court 1.  Did you feel a difference?  Any difference with the noise from outside with the Henman game?  Did it detract you at all?
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't think so, no.  Centre Court is two days before.  Now is the Court No. 1.  I think is the same, no?  I can won on Centre Court, I can lost on Centre Court.  I can won in the Court 31.  
 
Q.  What would you like to improve most when you come back for next year? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I need improve something.  I say every day, I need improve my serve and I need improve my confidence in grass because sometimes I have a little bit nervous when I serve because I know if I don't win the game, I can lose the set.  
 
 
Q.  Does that mean you think it will take two more years before you're comfortable on grass or so? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I hope.  I hope.  I will try (smiling).  
 
Q.  Do you have any plans as to what to do now or haven't you thought about it now? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  Now I am a little bit tired.  I play a lot of matches last month.  I don't have day offs because I play every, every day.  I think I need disconnect.  "Disconnect" is good?  I need disconnect a little bit for recharge the batteries, no?  
 
Q.  Your English has improved very much. 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I study every night two hours (smiling).  
 
Q.  You're having lessons or you learn from the circuit?
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yes, every day.  Every day after the match, I have 20 minutes or 30 minutes.  That's my principal lesson.  
 
Q.  What is your summer program?  Will we see you playing hard courts in the United States? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  My summer program is I don't know.  My summer program is stay in Mallorca now one week.  Eight I going to play in Bastad.  Week off, Stuttgart.  Umag, Montreal, Cincinnati, week off.  US Open.  China.  Davis Cup, if the captains request my presence, my presence of the team (smiling).  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT