WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2005
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Good afternoon.  Questions for Rafael Nadal.  English questions first, for which Rafael will be assisted by an interpreter.  
 
 
Q.  Are you fully satisfied with your first match in Wimbledon since two years? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I have a very good feelings today, no?  I play I think a good match.  I serve very good today, and that's important for my game, no?  After I think I am happy with my forehand because in grass sometimes I don't play very well with the forehand.  I'm very happy for my match today, no?  
 
Q.  Was the match as you thought it would be against Spadea? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I won 6-4, 6-3, 6-0.  I think is a good match, and is a little bit easy.  
 
 
Q.  Will you wish to have golden shoes from Nike also like Sharapova and Federer? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I have my ones (smiling).  I have my white ones, and it's okay.  
 
Q.  Justine Henin, the winner of Roland Garros, is out.  You're not superstitious, are you? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I watch the match before, before my match, Henin.  So Daniilidou play good match.  Every tournament is different, every match is different.  
 
Q.  But she's also very strong on clay court.  You see it's difficult on grass. 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  For everything is different the change, no?  But I think I practice very, very good the last days, and I have confidence for the tournament, no?  
 
Q.  How much practice did you have on grass before this tournament after the last tournament? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yes, I have practice in Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday (smiling).  
 
Q.  Just in Wimbledon? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Two hours half, three hours every day.  
 
Q.  Last time you were here you looked very different.  You've made a lot of muscle.  You're much bigger and stronger. 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I think the last time I play with this one, and now I play with (indicating shorter sleeves).  
 
Q.  Do you have a special regime to make yourself stronger?
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  Two years before I have 16, 17, and now I have 19, no?  Evolution (smiling).  Evolution with age.  
 
Q.  No special... 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Nothing special, no.  
 
Q.  Do you actually have any belief that you can win this tournament this year?  I've heard you think that you can in the future.  What would you consider this to be a good tournament for you? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I won the first round, and I know -- I think I cannot win this year, no?  But I am happy with the match of today because I watch in the match, I can play good in grass, no?  And that's important, not only for today, for the next years.  If I improve some things in my game, I think any year I can play good here, no, good result.  
 
Q.  Why can't you win here after winning the French Open? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Because I think here, there is a lot of players better, no?  I think Federer is better here.  Hewitt is better.  Roddick is better.  Henman is better.  But not only these four.  Every match is difficult here because if you find any player when he serve very good, is complicated, no?  
 
Q.  Do you feel you've adapted your game to grass now? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I am trying.  I think I am playing good on grass, but I know every match is different.  I am playing good.  But after tomorrow, I don't know.  
 
Q.  A friend of yours, Andy Murray, has made a big impact here winning his first round match.  Can you tell us a bit about how you know him and your background with Andy, what you think of him as a player? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, I have a good relation with him.  I know Andy at four years, five years before with Juniors competitions.  And that's important, no?  He's young.  He won today I think the first match in one Grand Slam, and that's important.  That's good for the England people, no?  
 
Q.  When you played him as a junior?
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I never play against him.  I only play against him in doubles.  
 
Q.  What do you think of him as a player? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, he's playing good, no?  I watch Andy normally in the Internet when he won some futures, when he play good in Queen's.  I think he's playing good.  He need improve some things, but he's young and he try for sure.  
 
Q.  Do you think he could follow you into the Top 10? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Every player can do that, no?  Every player can improve.  And if he improve, for sure he can do in the Top 10, no?  
 
Q.  You're responsible for him going to Barcelona.  You inspired him to leave Scotland, didn't you? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I am in Mallorca.  I think Barcelona is a good site, good place for practice.  In Barcelona we have a lot of players and a lot of tournaments, ATP tournaments, futures, satellites.  And that's very important because you can play every week, no?  
 
Q.  Two years ago you beat Mario Ancic.  He is the last one to beat Federer on grass.  Last year he went to the semifinals.  I think this year you can do something. 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  If I won two years before to this year I am in the final, no?  No, I remember that match.  I think I play a very, very good match against him.  There is my first match after my injury, the elbow, and that's important because in this match I can see I can play good in grass, no?  
 
Q.  I think you can do it if you really want this year.  You have the determination. 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I only think about every day, about the match of doubles tomorrow, and to improve, improve my game for play in a year good here.  
 
Q.  Good luck. 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Thank you very much.  I need, I think.   
 
Q.  You were talking about the fact that Spain is a good place to go because of many tournaments.  Is that something you would maybe suggest to more English players to do? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I don't know.  If any player can want to play good and he have a good illusion for the tennis, he can practice in Great Britain, in Barcelona, or anyplace, no?  Because now, you know, in a lot of sites have a good place and a good coach.  But the most important thing is the illusion for the game and one other important thing is have a partners for practice good, no?  
 
Q.  We know about your footballing family.  Is there any sporting advice that your uncle has given you when you're going in to compete? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I only think the most important thing is enjoy the game and (indiscernible).  
 
Q.  In the past there have been some French champions, Spanish, who had no interest in Wimbledon, didn't come, whatever.  You seem to have a very different attitude about Wimbledon.  You have great respect for it.  You think you can win here eventually.  Why is that? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I always say Wimbledon is special for me, no, because in Wimbledon only one Spanish player won, no, Manolo Santana.  It's important, I want to improve on grass.  I like play on grass, no?  Is nice.  I want to do an important tournament here.  
 
Q.  Justine Henin said it was difficult for her to focus on Wimbledon after her victory in Paris because there's only two weeks.  Did you feel the same? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, that's normal, no?  Is only two weeks, and for adapt is not easy.  I think I going play -- I going to play in Halle is important for me because I have the contact with the grass two days, three days, and that's important for the thing about change the game, no?  And when I arrive here, is not all new for me, no?  That's good.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT