TMS MONTE CARLO
April 14, 2005
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  It was too easy tonight?

RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, it was a cool match.  I started off very well.  Generally, he wins, and this time I was able to get ahead of him.  I think when I hit the ball and it bounced high, it was a bother for him.  Also I played well from both sides and I made him run a lot.


Q.  How does it feel to play Gaudio, the French Open Champion?

RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, I lost to him in Buenos Aires after a very strange match.  I hope I'm going to play well and I'm going to win.  I'm going into that match with a lot of pleasure, and I would be very happy if I were able to win.


Q.  What do you think about Volandri, who beat Puerta today?  Do you believe he can become one of the top players in the world?

RAFAEL NADAL:  Yes, he plays very well.  In fact, they both had cramps.  It was an important match for both of them because they both wanted to get into the next round of this tournament. I think this year he had ups and downs, but Volandri is a very dangerous player and he can become one of the best in the world.


Q.  Volandri against Ferrero, what do you think about that match?

RAFAEL NADAL:  Well, we'll have to see how he is physically, because I saw him pretty tired at the end of his match.  It was a very complicated match.  He had to run down many balls. I think he was recently in a quarterfinal of a Masters Series, so it will be with pleasure that I will play against him in the semifinals.


Q.  You and Volandri were playing without a lot of help from your serve.  You didn't get many free points with your serve.  Of course you are serving better than Volandri.

RAFAEL NADAL:  Poor Volandri, you make it sound like he has no serve.  You have to give him a bit of confidence. No, seriously, it's more difficult to play without a good serve because then afterwards you have to run a lot, but you get used to it.  I'm working hard to improve my serve; otherwise, you have to play on the backhand. But I'm working hard, and I try to improve.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT