NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 30, 2005
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Please go ahead with your questions. 
 

Q.  How do you adjust so quickly to all different players?  Because this tournament, you play very good, but you play very different styles.  Johansson is a totally different player.  You seem to be adjusting so easily - it looks easy - to all different players.
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation).  I feel very comfortable with my game.  I have been playing several games lately, and I was preparing for this kind of tournament tonight.  I feel comfortable with the passing shots. I used high balls and balls with a lot of topspin. 
 

Q.  You bring out so much energy here in Key Biscayne at the NASDAQ; last year also.  Is this a special tournament for you?
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I think I play always with the same energy, no. 
 

Q.  Here you have played extremely successful like last year and this year.  You like this hard court better than traditional red clay, like most Spanish player?
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, I like the clay court, but I am playing good in the hard court now, outdoor hard court.  I was play good in Australia.  I won three matches.  Last year I was the final in Auckland.  I can play good in these courts.  I like the same these courts like clay.  I think I play a little bit better now in clay, but I play good in this court.  I like. 
 

Q.  What kind of preparation did you have for this tournament?
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  (Through translation).  He didn't have any preparation because he got sick.  He has been sick for a while.  He has been going to different games and also had a fever, so he didn't have any time to prepare for this game. 
 

Q.  Of course besides the French Open, what other tournaments will you play in Europe?  For example, are you going to Hamburg and Rome?
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, I go to play Valencia next week, Monte-Carlo, Barcelona, stop.  Rome, Hamburg, stop.  French Open.  If - if - I don't have injury (smiling). 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the time you played Ferrer.
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT