AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2005
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  P>
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English first.  
 
 
Q.  Did you just run out of gas there in the fourth and fifth set?  Is that what happened? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I don't think so.  In the fifth set, yes, I have problems with cramps.  In the fifth set is decided for him.  But in the fourth set, I have a big chances.  I have three times 15-30, and in the 5-5 I have the 15 -- yeah, in the 4-4 I have the 15-30.  But I have one approach, the slice approach, and he touch one lob very, very good, and I can do nothing, no?  Today I don't play bad in the good moments, but he play very, very good in the best moments, and he win for that.  
 
Q.  Did you have leg cramps?
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, in the fifth set.  Yes, I have cramps, yes.  
 
Q.  How hard is Lleyton to play when you go into a fifth set? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, especially difficult when he's in the fifth set.  Today I have big chances in the fourth set, and right after I am tired, no?  Not for him play better.  For sure he play good the fifth set, but if he stay -- when I stay -- (Rafael switches to Spanish.)  
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  But I think it's a little bit psychologic.  When I stay too near to won the match, I can't won.  He played very good the tiebreak.  In the fifth set, he begin very good, and I can do nothing.  
 
Q.  Would you call it a two-point match, the two mini breaks you lost in the tiebreaker?  That was the difference? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, no.  I don't know.  In the tiebreak, it's not for two balls, no?  He play well.  I have my chance in one point when he return, when he serve the second serve, and I mistake the ball, no?  When I do that, the chance is a little bit down.  
 
Q.  Do you think the experience was the difference maybe? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, for sure.  He have more years in that, no?  He play a lot of matches in these characteristics.  And me, I play a little bit, no?  But I am happy because I play good match, no?  I play good match, and I have a lot of chance for a win.  I am happy because he is No. 3 in the world, and I play the same him today, no?  I am happy for that.  If I play in this level, I can do important things this year.  
 
Q.  You and Lleyton play a similar sort of game.  Do you find it frustrating playing someone like Lleyton? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, no.  For me, no, we don't play the same, no?  (Rafael switches to Spanish.)  
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  But the difference I think he serve very, very better.  
 
Q.  What is your ambition for the French Open this year? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, is not especially the French Open.  My mission for the French Open is play the French Open (smiling).  But, no, all ambition is stay in the ranking, the Top 20, no?  Top 15 for me is my objective.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT