AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2005
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  You worked very hard to even up in the fourth set.  How were you feeling physically to start the fifth set?  How were you feeling in yourself at the start of the fifth set?
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, when we in the fourth set -- the fifth set, I feeling very well.  My physic is very well.  But when I change in the fourth game, I don't feel very good.  I won this game, but my feelings is not very well because I am little bit tired.  But it's okay.  He won the next three games, 4-3.  He was play good these three games.  And after he don't play nothing in the 4-3.  Four mistakes in the 4-3.  In the 5-3 I play a good game, and I can win the match, no.  
 
Q.  How did you enjoy the whole centre court experience? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yes, the last year I play against Hewitt in third round.  I play very, very, very good match.  And now today is surprise for me to play in the Rod Laver, no.  But it's okay, I like a lot this court.  I hope play in this court in two rounds more against Hewitt.  
 
Q.  You would love to get another chance to play him after last year? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I hope.  I have a tough match, hard match against Reynolds.  I don't know him.  He's playing well.  He won against Pavel and Almagro.  For sure is a difficult match.  I always hope play very good this match, won this match.  But if I won this match, for me is very good tournament.  And after, after if I won this match, I have a nice match against Lleyton.  Last year I play good with him.  I lost 7-6, 7-6, 6-3, but I have a chance.  And now I only think about the next match.  
 
Q.  Do you know anything about Reynolds? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know nothing.  I never -- I never watch.  I don't know where is him.  What is his ranking, you know?  
 
Q.  238. 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Have you always worn the long trousers on court or is that just a new thing? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, no.  Only this year.  
 
Q.  Is it comfortable? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yeah, it's okay.  The shorts is very fine?  Very thin.  
 
Q.  The court, the speed, the pace of the court is to your liking? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Yes, I like.  Is not too fast, not too slowly, too.  But the ball, when I touch the -- good bounce.  I like.  Yes, last year I play good here, and this year I am in the same round, in third round.  Is my best result in the Grand Slam.  I hope improving in this one.  
 
Q.  Do you ever have a five-set match with no aces? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  Me, nothing ace?  Yes, for sure.  This year I am serving little bit better, but all my life, I have all matches with nothing ace.  
 
Q.  Are you worried a little sometimes that you use so much energy on the court that it's going to affect you for your next matches because you use up so much energy? 
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I don't think so because all life I am the same, no.  I think is my game, this one.  I don't think.  
 
Q.  No problem?
 
RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I don't think I have problems.  If I lost, I think I lost for the game, not for the energy.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT