TMS MONTE CARLO
April 16, 2003
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  It gets better and better? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  I played, indeed, a very good match.  In the beginning it was a bit average.  I think I felt too much respect or was a bit afraid of him.  But after, during the match, I started to play better and better.  I believe he didn't have a great day today, but I played very well. 

Q.  Did you seriously think that this was a match you could win beforehand? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't know.  I was very happy about that match.  I was very eager to play, and I thought maybe he was scared a little bit because he was playing against a younger player, something might happen.  But to tell the truth, I was not very confident that I was going to win.  Finally, I played very well. 

Q.  What has pleased you most today about the way you played? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  In fact, what pleases me the most is having won that match.  This is a very important victory to me, beating a Top 10 player, who won the French Open on top of it last year.  So this is the most important thing.  And also I'm happy that I played well. 

Q.  You played two sets, but it was quite a long match, almost two hours.  How do you feel now physically?  Are you ready to play tomorrow, do you think? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  Physically I feel good.  I already had a good tournament now.  I'm just hoping to play a good match tomorrow at least.  Physically, I feel very good. 

Q.  Do you think you are almost living in a dream? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  No, it was not like a dream.  I was just playing, playing well.  It was not a dream, but I couldn't imagine this would happen before this tournament. 

Q.  How exciting would it be for you to get into the Top 100 now? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  I'm already in the Top 100.

Q.  I thought it was 109, is it? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  With the points of this tournament...

Q.  How exciting is it to be in the Top 100? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  No, in the beginning of the year, before this year, I didn't think it would happen so fast.  But the thing is, you have to continue to try and keep on working.  Things are not stopping here.  You have to keep on working and play better and better. 

Q.  Did Carlos Moya give you some advice before this game? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  No (smiling).  No, it wouldn't have been a nice thing.  I mean, he didn't tell me anything. 

Q.  What did Albert tell you after that match? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  He just congratulated me and wished me good luck for the rest of the tournament. 

Q.  How far do you think you can realistically go now?  You've beaten Costa, you've overcome that. 

RAFAEL NADAL:  I don't think I'm going very far in this tournament.  I stay realistic.  Today I played a great match.  I really hope that I can do more of it, but it's going to be very difficult.  As I said, I'll keep on fighting until the end.  I'll try to play well.  But it doesn't only depend on me, if I win or lose, it also depends on the others. 

Q.  The fact that there were very few people left at the end of the match, did it help your concentration? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  No, I prefer when there's a big crowd. 

Q.  Did you speak with anyone yet, family, friends? 

RAFAEL NADAL:  I didn't speak with anyone yet. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT