BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2019
Rafael Nadal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. NADAL/F. Krajinovic
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Looks like your good form is continuing.  Talk a little bit about how you felt out there.
RAFAEL NADAL: Good.  Probably played a little bit worse today than yesterday.  Maybe because of the conditions, windier out there today.
But in general terms have been a positive victory again.  Happy the way I played.
Q. What was going through your mind when you're watching so many seeds go down yesterday?
RAFAEL NADAL: That's tennis.  Is nothing new, and it's something that really happened a lot in the past.  Is true that for the last ten years didn't happen very often, but is normal.
The difference between players are not -- is not huge, you know.  It's small gaps.  Anything can happen this sport, and especially in these kind of events that top 50 players are playing.
Q. Is it true that the other day you had the time wrong for your match?  You thought it was going to be later than it was?
RAFAEL NADAL: No.  Is, you know, that was a story that is not true.
You know, I was wrong when I said I thought it was at 8:00.  It was at 6:00.  I know that.  But was 5:50 they called me, so I thought they were going to call me at 6:00, not 5:50.
I said to Gerry, immediately I said, I thought it was at 6:00.  That's why he was waiting five minutes for me.  No, no, that's all.
Q. No trouble with the timing today?
RAFAEL NADAL: No.  No, no.
Q. You don't play 11:00 matches very often.  Any changes to your routine?
RAFAEL NADAL: Yeah, of course, I have to wake up at 6:30 in the morning.  That's the only change.  That's all.
Q. What does it say about the game right now that Karlovic is 40, Venus is 38, Roger is 37, that players are able to play a little bit longer and still be competitive at this time?
RAFAEL NADAL: Honestly, I gonna be a big and long answer to really develop what I think.
I don't think is the right moment to talk.  But is obviously that when this kind of stuff happens, is two reasons.  First thing, of course, you are passionate about what you are doing.  Second thing, you are able to work on the prevention of injuries.  Treat your body the right way.
Third thing, of course, you're still competitive to win important things.  That's the main thing, too.
Q. Could you see yourself still playing at 37, 38, 39?
RAFAEL NADAL: Probably not, today.  But when I was 26 or 25, I was not able at that point to see me playing at the age of almost 33.  So you never know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT