ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 28, 2020
Sornnarin Tippoch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








South Africa - 195/3, Thailand - 82
Q. Sornnarin, how is the team feeling after that game?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: Very disappointing about that performance. Yeah, we didn't bowl well. We didn't field well. We didn't bat well. Our whole overall performance wasn't good in that game.
Q. You mentioned sort of consistency in line and bowling. That just wasn't there today. How do you look to address that now with one game left to go? And going into the future, how will you look to bowl more consistently?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: So we were a bit flustered when Lizelle came at us. We never had a chance to find our lines and lengths, but going forward, we've got to find a way to correct that and also improve on that if we want to really play here and prove that we can play some good cricket.
Q. Shabnim Ismail was bowling really quickly today. Is that the fastest bowler your team has faced, and how was it facing that speed of bowling?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: We faced this kind of bowling while we practice in India, so we didn't feel intimidated by the pace or anything. It's probably just atmosphere and also the experience coming to a World Cup. So it's different in practice, and it's different in a real life situation.
Q. A lot went wrong today. We'll start with the fielding. I've noticed a lot of the time the fielders have trouble catching it or getting to it. Is this just because at this level the batters are hitting the ball harder so you have a bit less time to run in and get the ball?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: We've got to accept, if we're going to play at this level, the teams are going to come at us hard, and we've got to step up our game in that respect and improve our fielding and be a bit more brave, be a bit more tidy in the field and when we bowl as well.
Q. Today we saw South Africa employ a 7-2 off side field, and they bowled really disciplined lines to match that. You guys didn't do anything similar. Is that perhaps because you're a bit worried about the bowlers slipping up, or is it just not part of your tactics?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: So a part of our tactics are bowling according to stumps, stump to stump. That's the field we employ. But we did not hit those lengths or those lines. Yeah, it just wasn't working for us today.
Q. Lizelle Lee was hitting a lot in two big areas, over extra cover and towards midwicket, and it kept going past fielders and through the field. Why weren't you moving the field a bit more, or was it just that she was too good at placing it?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: We tried to back up bowlers with the field, with setting the field, but the bowlers didn't really bowl to their field. So, yeah, in that respect, it just didn't go our way.
Q. You are going now to the Sydney Showground. It's played certainly low and slow the first game, and now you've got an opponent who's not a stranger to you. What sort of chances do you give yourself of being able to finish, I guess, the group stage on a real high?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: The past two games, we've obviously got a lot of experience from those games moving forward, so both bad and good ones. So we know that's the last game of this World Cup, so we want to really put on a good performance. Yeah, looking forward to that.
Q. And conditions at Sydney Showground, do you think they'll suit you more than perhaps the other pitches have?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: So, yeah, the pitch will probably play the same for both teams. So it's just a matter of consistency on our part to do well in all aspects of the game.
Q. Just a couple of, I guess, tactical questions. We saw Chanida Sutthiruang held back when she can swing really effectively. Why are you not giving her the new ball?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: That's a part of the coaching staff and what was evaluated of the situation and the nature of this tournament. So we wanted to bring her into the middle always to have her affect the game a bit more.
Q. And just on that, I guess, the plans, do you feel that they're perhaps a bit too rigid? You're under the pump with two batsmen going well. You need to maybe change things a bit, and I've noticed that you very much stick to the plans in those situations.
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: It's a learning experience for us. In a cricket game we're always trying to take wickets and back up bowlers. So from that experience, we want our bowlers to learn as well, and maybe it's learning the hard way. So, yeah, maybe they take something out of it.
Q. And just finally, you're talking about learning and moving forward. This is probably the most that Thailand's been under the pump for quite a long time. You've really dominated at associate level. So what lessons are you going to take from being really under pressure and really struggling and applying that moving forward?
SORNNARIN TIPPOCH: Well, obviously, that put things into perspective of where we stand and where we have to be. So it's all about walking back and working on our skills and tactics and our whole game in general to be able to compete at this level.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT