PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2010
Scott Hebert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Three trips in a row to the PGA Championship, four now. And it's an amazing test and could you just speak about these days for you?  
 SCOTT HEBERT: These are great. I always seem like I'm disappointed about how I play, but these are such different conditions than what we normally play, so much on the edge, you miss a little bit and you just pay terrible. But I'm happy to be here, it's fun. One of these times I would like to play a little bit and get a little bit more comfortable, rather than squeezing all the way around, so.  
  
  Q. Are you getting a little bit more adapted to the PGA Championship experience based on your times here?  
 SCOTT HEBERT: Oh, I think definitely. I was a lot more worked up at Southern Hills when I first played, but it's a little disappointing how I played, but these are fun to be in. And I wish every club pro could experience it, because it's just a treat.   
 The guys are great. I played with Bo Van Pelt and we talked nice all the way around just like Mark and I would talk going around. So it's lots of fun.   
 It was nice catching up with Vaughn, I hadn't seen Vaughn in a number of years. And disappointed, but what the heck, I didn't embarrass myself too bad, I guess.  
  
  Q. When you face a major championship venue it's more than just keeping the ball in the fairway and the long distances, you got to really be good around the greens and is that what's holding a lot of our guys back, do you think?  
 SCOTT HEBERT: Well, you know, I think all of our guys are a little at a disadvantage because it's such an overwhelming experience when you get here. Everyone's probably played 18 holes before they can just kind of relax and play their game. And just the venue, we just don't play things as hard as this. And green speeds are faster, you know, you can ask anyone any member/guest, whatever you got, these are going to be faster than anything that we see.  
  
  Q. You had the Pete Dye experience all through you're career, you've been a lot of places, this is a little different Pete Dye experience, a little more tweaked too.   
 SCOTT HEBERT: Yeah, when that wind blew I really had some troubles. Not that everyone else doesn't, but it's just, it's a wonderful course and it's awful hard.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT