AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 29, 2006
Nick Lindahl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  What were your expectations when you were given the wildcard?  What did you hope to do? 

NICK LINDAHL:  First was to win this tournament, definitely.  Final, it's not bad, but I would have loved to win this one.  This is my last year of Juniors as well, and this is gonna be my last junior tournament.  But, yeah, I can only hold my head up high.

Q.  Do you think you'll be able to look back and be happy with the week? 

NICK LINDAHL:  Yeah, definitely.  I was pretty sick this whole week, really.  I didn't play my best tennis.  I played really good yesterday, and today second set I was playing a lot better than the first set, yeah. 

Q.  What's been wrong?  What's ailing you? 

NICK LINDAHL:  Uhm, well, in my second-round match I had to get taken off in a wheelchair.  I was just -- never felt that way in my life.  Was just so tired.  And then was feeling so weak, was shaking.  My whole body was just shaking for no reason.  I was just sleeping.  That's about all I was doing for a few days. 

Q.  Just 5-2 up in the second set today.  The other guy looked like he was spent.  Did you think you had him? 

NICK LINDAHL:  Yeah, I thought I had him then.  He played two good service games.  My service game, for me to serve it out in the second set, he started with two return winners which was a bit unexpected, I thought.  Then he played a solid game.  I was a bit unlucky to lose that game.  I thought I had him.  If I had won that set, I thought I was mentally on top of him. 

Q.  He was dragging his feet.  You were up 5-2.  He could barely walk at that time. 

NICK LINDAHL:  Yeah, the game to lose when he lost 5-2, he sort of just like tanked it really, the last two points.  I don't know what went wrong.  But then 5-3, he found some hidden powers or something, I don't know.

Q.  When you looked up, did you notice who was watching you?  Kenny Rosewall, Mark Woodforde, JA.  There was a whole crew of legends hanging around having a look. 

NICK LINDAHL:  I didn't really see.  I was a bit more interested in the speed gun.  It was first time I had it this week.  Was trying to get the serve over 200 sometimes.

Q.  When do you start on the men's circuit?

NICK LINDAHL:  Last year really, just midway through last year.

Q.  How's that been going?

NICK LINDAHL:  Pretty good.  Qualifying -- I lost in three qualifying ones, the only ones I've played.  I managed to get my ranking to 650.  I was happy with that.  I wanted to get it to 500 to finish the year, but 650 was still respectable for me.

Q.  You've just recently moved to Melbourne from your home, is that right?

NICK LINDAHL:  Yes.

Q.  You're working with Jason.  Is he actually your coach or do you have a specific coach?

NICK LINDAHL:  I haven't really got a specific coach yet.  Just I don't think the whole Tennis Australia revamp is done until February 1st, so then I'll find out what happens then.

Q.  Will you have a coach then, do you think?

NICK LINDAHL:  Not entirely sure. 

Q.  How has it been so far with Jason? 

NICK LINDAHL:  Jason's a really good guy.  He's always helped motivating, then always gave good advice.  Always giving me like phone numbers for other people to hit with and stuff.  So he's been really good. 

Q.  You settling into Melbourne okay? 

NICK LINDAHL:  Yeah.  Used to live in Melbourne until I was six years old.  I think left 'cause of the weather and my dad's work.  But I like it again now. 

Q.  Who's here from your family? 

NICK LINDAHL:  My dad and my mum and my brother came out this week, which was really good.  Haven't seen them for a while.  But I'm living now with my grandparents.

Q.  What are your goals for this year?

NICK LINDAHL:  This year I want to break the top 300 in the men's.  Basically be direct acceptance for men's quallies next year.  The wildcard playoff this year for the men, I want to win that one. 

Q.  When you lost the first 12 points of the match, did your nerves get shaken there? 

NICK LINDAHL:  I was a bit shocked really.  I should have won the first point.  Missed a bad forehand bottom of the net.  I think I did four after that.  I wasn't feeling nervous.  I think I was just maybe overexcited or too happy or something.  I don't know.  I was just really confused (laughter). 

Q.  Did you get some acupuncture or something off your grandfather?

NICK LINDAHL:  Yeah, I've been pretty sore the last few days.  Grandpa is a good acupuncturist.  That helps a lot. 

Q.  What's his background? 

NICK LINDAHL:  He's Indonesian.  He's got a clinic in Carlton. 

Q.  Have you thought at all about Davis Cup at this early stage of your career? 

NICK LINDAHL:  Uhm, no, haven't really thought about that.  There's still so many good players in front.  I don't think I'd be playing my standards up for that yet.

Q.  Have you been given a tap on the shoulder that you might be an orange boy?

NICK LINDAHL:  Yeah, just recently after my match they asked if I wanted to join them in Switzerland.  Still a bit of a shock still because I wasn't really expecting that.  I haven't really made up my mind yet, but I think I'll be going. 

Q.  I mean, the disappointment of losing and then to get tapped on the shoulder and asked to go to Switzerland is mixed emotions, I suppose?

NICK LINDAHL:  Very mixed.  Feel like I don't really know yet what's going on. 

Q.  What will determine your decision to go? 

NICK LINDAHL:  Uhm, basically looking at my schedule of tournaments.  But I don't think that should be a problem.  I think I'll be going. 

Q.  And who asked you? 

NICK LINDAHL:  Fitzy. 

Q.  What did he say? 

NICK LINDAHL:  He said, "You've been invited to come to join them in Switzerland."  I was just, "Oh."  Bit of a shock (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT