SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 23, 2016
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's the contact story?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yeah, so he comes in this morning, and he goes, I lost one of my contacts.  It's my last pair.  But in America apparently you can't just get it over-the-counter.  So he has a prescription from South Africa, but they didn't accept it, so he had to go to the doctor, get the contacts, and it's quite a big deal, especially on the greens.
Q. So he never got one?
LEE-ANNE PACE: He got it, yeah.
Q. No depth perception, don't know the yardage?  Yeah, great.
LEE-ANNE PACE: It was quite funny.
Q. Well, again, conditions, pin positions?  What was so difficult?
LEE-ANNE PACE: The pins are definitely tougher, especially on the front nine, a lot of longer irons with tightly tucked pins so you had to play to the middle of the green.  Lots of up-and-downs on the front nine, and then I think I birdied 9, hit it on the green, so that got me going, and I made some birdies on the back and made some putts.
Q. Did you see the scores at all and just think, I don't need to go super low, or plod along and I'll stay up there?
LEE-ANNE PACE: I was aware of them, but we set our goal in the beginning of the day, which was quite high now considering.
Q. What was it?
LEE-ANNE PACE: It's a funny story, I've had 69 for five out of the last six rounds, so we just went with that, and funny enough --
Q. Five out of the last six?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yeah, so funny enough, it happened again today, so it seems to be our lucky number.  It pops up everywhere for us, so that was it.
Q. Tomorrow obviously you're within shooting distance, but what do you expect here?  I know you played here last year.
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yeah, well, obviously the conditions are going to be the same tomorrow probably, a little cooler, I think.  I'll wear pants.  But just the same thing.  On a course like this you have to play on the right side.  You have to stay below the hole, and yeah, keep it in the fairway and on the greens.
Q. How have you done in this tournament the last couple of years?
LEE-ANNE PACE: I can't remember.  I only played last year, but I remember playing decently.
Q. You made the cut.  I just looked it up.
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yeah, I couldn't remember.
Q. What got you going today?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Just a lot of par saves in the beginning of the round, a lot of sand saves, and then just kept me level par, and then made some putts.
Q. Did I see that you went to Tulsa?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yes.
Q. And Murray State?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Murray State, correct, one year.
Q. Was that traveling around to every college in America?
LEE-ANNE PACE: No, it was one year at Murray State, and then I went to Tulsa because it was a top-ranked university in the country, so I made that move.
Q. You've been playing well recently, a couple top 15s in there.  What's been going on, working for you?  What's going to take you --
LEE-ANNE PACE: Honestly I think it's all the off-season training because I took like three months off and I really went hard at it in the gym and I worked on my swing and just a lot of training, like I said last summer.  I really think it's working, and I spoke to my mental guy last week, gave me some good tips.
Q. What's his name?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Eugene Oppelette.  Good luck with that.  We're just working on important things, staying patient.  In the past I wasn't patient enough, and now it's shining through, but also the ball-striking has been really good.  Been working harder than usual, and it's paying off.
Q. You were working on strength training, like actually getting stronger?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yeah, yeah, so I took three months off and just trained six times a week in the gym.
Q. Six times?
LEE-ANNE PACE: My self-defense is in the golf swing and the positions that I can hold coming out of the rough.  Small things make a massive difference.
Q. Are you driving longer?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Definitely.  I can see on the stats it's different.
Q. By how much?
LEE-ANNE PACE: I think like 15 yards, which is quite a bit.
Q. Do you keep that up now that you've started playing again?
LEE-ANNE PACE: It's a little bit difficult.  I try and do a little bit of running, but it's hard to -- I don't really want to be overly stiff, so try and do it three times a week, but not getting there right now obviously when we're on the road.  We've got an off week coming up and then I'll do another -- yeah, I've been really happy with it.  I don't know why I didn't try it before.
Q. Where is home for you now?
LEE-ANNE PACE: It's in Paul, South Africa.
Q. So what's going to be your strategy going into tomorrow?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Same thing, fairways and greens, and hope to make a few putts.
Q. Another 69?
LEE-ANNE PACE: I hope so.  Isn't it funny.
Q. Five of the last six were 69?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yeah.
Q. And how did you finish last week?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Except the first round of this week, so five out of the last six rounds.  I think I finished 14th or 15th.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT