ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2016
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's always good to start with a really nice low round in a major.  What was really working for you out there?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: Everything.  I had a really good time.  I had a new caddie Johan from South Africa and we've been friends for 15 years.  Just really clicking out there.  He started last week.  But, yeah, put the ball in the right place and made a few putts.   
 Q.  I heard you had been back in South Africa and won a Cup Series right after Singapore and came back here.  Has the game been feeling like this was coming?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: Definitely.  I played really well in the beginning of the year.  Those tournaments I played in South Africa definitely helped me play better for the year, even though it was eight weeks in a row.  But the week was great, but, yeah, just building on that.   
 Q.  The change in caddie, why and why is it a good fit?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: He happened to be free at the time when I needed a caddie, and we've been friends for a long time.  I've known him since he was a little boy.  He's not a little boy anymore.  But he was a great player himself, and he's really, really helping me to place the ball.   
 Q.  Perfect conditions off this morning out there?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yeah, definitely.  The greens are so smooth.  If you hit some good putts, they're definitely going to go in, and the course is fantastic.   
 Q.  On nine there, did you have to play it under the tree?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yeah, it wasn't a great lie, but, again, we went for the safer option, short.  It was a pretty easy chip from there.  But, yeah, the rough is a little bit thick, so you need to hit the fairways.   
 Q.  Was the rough a little sticky in the morning, particularly hard on your first putt in?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: I'm not sure.  The only rough I hit I think was on the last hole.  But, yeah, it does get sticky in the morning when it's wet.   
 Q.  This is an event you've had a lot of success in the past.  What seemed to be different for you out there today?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: I love this course.  I've always felt like I can play really good out here, and this time I spoke to my coach about it yesterday, I'm more ready for this major than ever before, and I think it's because I've played a little bit more golf in the beginning of the season and did a lot of off-season training.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT