HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 3, 2016
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A few minutes ago, you said, well, my round was pretty boring out there.  I don't think you could describe a round of 68 being dull.  
LEE-ANNE PACE: It was great, I played really good golf today, made some good decisions with my caddie, so overall really, really happy.   
 Q.  These are difficult, blustery conditions.  Does that suit your game?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: Well, actually, when I practiced in the off-season -- it did help me a little with the wind, but yeah, just good decision making, pin-high all the time and made a few putts.   
 Q.  There are a couple of holes out there, 12 and 18, where you have a chance of getting home in two and potentially setting yourself up for eagle.  I suppose you have to make the most of those opportunities.  
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yeah, definitely, I had a nice eagle opportunity on 7 but unfortunately 18 I didn't get to the green in two.  But I do have some good opportunities on the par 5s and if you play the par 4s smart, you're in with a chance.   
 Q.  Are we seeing a leaner and fitter Lee-Anne Pace in 2016?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: I hope so.   
 Q.  And the plan going into tomorrow?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: Just the same, fairways and greens, but the same game plan all the time.  I do feel a lot stronger.  I spent a lot of the off-season doing some gym training, so feeling really good.   
I actually gained ten meters on the drive, which is quite a lot and at least five on my irons, so it just makes the golf course a lot easier.  So I'm quite happy that I did that.   
 Q.  Are you a big weight lifter?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: No, no, no, no.  We did do quite a few squats, but not too heavy.  Nothing out of control.  And more sets, I don't know how you call it, but you'll go like twenty, ten, five.  I look longer off and took three months off this year.  I was just a bit mentally drained last year and really wanted to come out with a bang and so far it's working.   
 Q.  When you were mentally drained, did you think, oh, my God, can I face going back?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: No, not at all.   
 Q.  Hard to keep yourself away for three months, was it?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: Not really.  It was quite easy actually.  I spent a lot of time with my family.  And I started seeing a psychologist in South Africa, sports psychology.  He does work with quite a lot of the Olympians going to Rio this year.  That's something new.  He does mental training not only with sports people.   
 Q.  What does he bring you to your golf world?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: A lot of patience, but also I think just being so tired at the end of last year, I ran out of patience and a couple of things that I changed.  The golf swing is exactly the same.  I'm just a lot more at ease on the golf course and a lot stronger, so that makes a difference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT