MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 16, 2015
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You played well here last year.   What about this course suits you well? 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I don't know.   I just really like it.   Like I say, (indiscernible) some shots off the tee, and into the green my irons are very straight at the moment.   I hit a lot of greens today. 
So if you have a lot of opportunities you can definitely (indiscernible.)

Q.   Do you feel like there are lower scores out there and you'll be able to take advantage of it later in the week?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, I mean, I hit it pretty close today.   I think probably could have done a bit better, but at the end of day 4‑under is perfect.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   No, I was in the rough once and it wasn't as long as last week.   Obviously it was quite a challenge, that chip outside.   Good advantage forward.
Yeah, the fairways are running a bit longer than I expected so it's playing a bit shorter. 

Q.   Last putt there you disappointed you weren't able to take it one shot lower?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   No, not really.   I had a good putt.   I chose the line and hit it exactly where I wanted to.   It just to happened fall right. 
Not really, no.

Q.   Lee‑Anne, as you said, this golf course suits you in terms of shaping shots.   Is there something to be said when you come back to golf courses where you've performed well in the past that you have the confidence level going in?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, I said to my caddie that I love this week because I played well here.   I have really good memories from last year, so happy to be back here. 
It's always nice to come back to a place where you play well.

Q.   The fan support, does this get you guys energized when you see so many fans showing up? 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Exactly, especially this week.   They love the golf here.   It's nice when the people come out and support.   The American fans are definitely really good at that.   They support everybody, so it's always nice people out there.

Q.   Have you been feeling everything coming together?   Was this just a result of what you've been working on lately?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Definitely have been playing really well the last few weeks.   Just haven't quite got it there.   Today was better.   We got all the clubs right basically and made some putts.
But, yeah, I've been working really hard on it.   Normally around this time my game starts improving quite a bit, so looking forward to the rest of the year.

Q.   So are you typically a slow starter?   Middle of the summer you feel like the game starts to heat up? 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Typically I am.   If you look at my results over the last couple years, I definitely start warming up from the U.S. Open onward. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT