OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 10, 2014
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   5‑under is great start?  
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, very solid.   Not missing a lot of shots.   Hitting a lot of greens and putting very well.   I think the greens are fantastic.   They are very fast and running out, so really good condition, the course.  
   
 Q.   You must feel the confidence now and the way your game is?  
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, South Africa and China was really nice and I'm still on a high from that.   So obviously I'm carrying that over into this round.   Hurt my back a little bit but fully recovered and playing good again.  
   
 Q.   This is your last tournament of the season?  
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What would it mean to finish on a high this year?  
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Obviously you want to win every tournament you tee it up on, but like I said, I'm playing well.   Still got the same old theory, one shot at a time, seems to work fine.   But yeah, it would be great to finish winning this tournament.  
   
 Q.   What do you think sparked the run, the good run you've had?   What's been the key to that?   
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I always seem to play well at the end of the year for some reason.   I think maybe just become more comfortable and I think I'm more comfortable in situations where I'm in contention.   So becomes easier through the years.  
   
 Q.   And this is a course you like, as well?   
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, I love this course.   I finished second here last time, so I have really good memories about it.   I think I haven't played here for three years, but like I said, the course is in fantastic condition.   The staff did really well.  
   
 Q.   Is that extra motivation that you've had a runner‑up spot?  
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, definitely, because I've had some good experiences here and I'm playing well‑‑ hitting the ball in the right places.   Especially on a course like this with fast greens, that makes a bit of a difference.   Striking my irons really well.   Missed a couple drives here and there, maybe just go to the range for some drivers, but yeah, just consistent.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT