BLUE BAY LPGA
October 27, 2014
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How did you sleep last night? 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Absolutely fine.   I was quite tired.   I woke up from the thunder outside, so I thought, well, that's not a very good sign. 

Q.   When you woke up this morning, just getting to the course, game plan? 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I woke up and I heard the weather outside.   So I had a fairly good idea it's going to be delayed.   So I took my time, got coffee.   I knew it was going to be delayed and took my time and went for a lengthy breakfast.   I had a lot of coffee, tiring this morning, but all in all felt pretty confident.   I knew I was hitting it well.   I knew I could do it down the stretch.   I've done it before.

Q.   How much of a difference was it winning last week?   How confident were you with your game in general? 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Exactly, I look back at last week and how I actually played better towards the end.   So I thought, you know, just do the same thing and I hit some really nice iron shots coming in on the last few holes.   To close out with a birdie is obviously a bonus.   I saw Caroline making a move, but I said to myself, you're far ahead, come on, super fives, short par 4. 

Q.   How nice was it to have that lead going into 18?   You were walking up with a huge smile on your face.   That had to be very, very nice?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   When I hit the shot quite close, I thought, all right, it's good now.   I was pretty relaxed.   I was like, yeah, you can enjoy this.   Jessica came over and was like, enjoy this walk.   I was like, I will.

Q.   Your first LPGA win, you won a ton on the LET.   What does this mean to you?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I can't actually believe it.   I'm still so in the moment of one shot at a time that I think it's going to hit me.   It's like literally‑‑ now I can relax.   It's amazing.   Obviously one of my life goals, not only on the golf course, but to do something like that very special. 
Especially the people back home put it on, the SuperSport people put it back on so people back home could watch.   So my whole family got up at 2:30 and saw it, that was nice. 

Q.   What about in terms of the bigger picture, South African golf, second LPGA win, what does that mean to you?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I think it's pretty big for South African golf.   We are definitely on the up and with all of those tournaments we have now, the smaller tournaments, hopefully this will help increase the prize money, increase the interest.   Yeah, the interest just in women's golf in general in South Africa, and I think that already is a step in the right direction. 
So hopefully we get some good ones coming out on Tour soon.   We've already got quite a few good players, and I hope that we can get a few more in South Africa on the LPGA. 

Q.   So plans for next week, are you heading home?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, I'm going home.   Hopefully getting out tonight but it's looking like tomorrow but hopefully tonight. 

Q.   Taking a couple weeks off? 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, CME, and then Dubai.   I'm playing the last one on the LET, also. 

Q.   So you get to enjoy it a little bit?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, I haven't been home since May, so I'm really looking forward to just going in any place and sleeping in my bed, my own coffee mug (laughing). 

Q.   When is the last time you were home? 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   May.   I was supposed to leave only for one tournament, the LET in Turkey, and then got in Kingsmill, and re‑ranked and I just got into everything.   I literally had one week's clothes with me.   I had to get people to send more.   I had one week's outfit with me, and two pairs of golf shoes.   Everybody had to just send it over to me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT