BLUE BAY LPGA
October 25, 2014
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, the delay was a little bit of a bummer, but clearly didn't affect you at all.   Anything you did in the delay?   Ate, sat, stay patient obviously. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah.   I ate twice, I think, and then I just spoke to my mom, who happened to be awake at 3 am in the morning for some reason.

Q.   What was she doing?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   She couldn't sleep.   She followed me last week and her leg was a bit hurt, so she couldn't fall asleep.

Q.   Oh.   What happened to her leg?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Just from walking.   So she was awake.

Q.   Got it.   Did she give you a pep talk?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   She did, actually, yeah.   I wasn't feeling great this morning, just didn't sleep very well.   And she did, she was just like, come on, it's important. 

Q.   Get it together?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Pretty much, yeah.   Stop moaning.

Q.   Love it.   That's what moms are for.   Once it was reduced to 54 holes, did your mindset change at all?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   No, I mean it's the same for everybody.   Obviously three rounds, a little bit more pressing today obviously to get to the top, but same thing.

Q.   Course conditions, everyone said it was just insane?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Fantastic.

Q.   Absolutely insanely dry?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah.   Very dry.   There were a couple of spots, but not on the fairways.   I think the conditions in general is fantastic.   The greens are really true if you get the right reads.

Q.   So take me through last week.   Obviously a huge win for you.   Coming here I know you got here like late and it was a whirlwind.   Just take me through last week and what that meant for in your career right now. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah.   I've never won the South African Open, so that was pretty huge.   A lot of my friends and my mom and sister came up.

Q.   Oh, that's awesome. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Who I haven't seen for five months.   So it was really nice to see them and just to spend some time.

Q.   Were they there all week?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, they were there since Tuesday, so it was nice to see them.   Also a lot of my friends came from Durban just to support.   So Sunday was pretty hectic coming from behind and making a couple of putts coming in was great.

Q.   Awesome.   How far is your home from where‑‑
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   It's a two‑hour flight, so it's a completely different direction.

Q.   Oh, so that's far.   So flew. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah.   It was pretty special.   Close to home.   It's a bit different than any other win.   So it really means a lot to me.

Q.   Tell me about playing well.   You've had two wins in Sonja.   What is it about here?   I like saw the name and I was like, same place.   It's crazy. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah. 

Q.   Coincidence?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Maybe I just like the type of grass.   I can read the greens fairly easy. 

Q.   So you think the grass, it's in the grass?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah.   I read them fairly easily.   I think what you see is what you get out there.   I don't know what it is.   I seem to play well every time.

Q.   Awesome.   And you got in late in the week.   Do you think that helped just coming from the win and coming here and just continue your good play?   Did you have time to relax at all?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   No.   Really tired Tuesday during the afternoon pro am.   I couldn't even remember the course.   On Thursday when I teed off, I could not remember, but a couple of things stood out like if you hit it in the small areas you're bound to have about a 15‑footer anyway for birdie.   So just hit it on the right side.   There's a lot of slopes in these greens, so if you miss it on the right side, you're always going to have a decent try.

Q.   Shot on number 12 had to be a highlight, the chip?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Oh, yeah.

Q.   What was the thought process to that?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I had another one like that on 7 maybe.

Q.   Chipped in?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   No.   I didn't chip.   I should have chipped, but I didn't feel it at that time, so I putted and it scooted past.   One of those sort of slopey ones, and I thought, you know, you're such a good chipper, just take the slope completely out because to get that close with the putter is too tricky.   So just a perfect.

Q.   Were you on the fringe or were you on the green?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I was on the fringe.

Q.   Okay.   So you were on the fringe and you just chipped in for the slope?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Just bottom of the slope, good line and went in.   Pretty nice.   I said to my caddie, that's one for the bank.   You know, shots you keep.

Q.   Yeah.   No joke.   And that kind of puts you like in the lead and the mix of things.   Do you think that was a turning point in the round at all?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah.   I played pretty decent.   I made quite a few putts already by that stage and then the putter just started rolling nicely towards the end.

Q.   How long were 14 and 15 do you think?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I don't remember.   15 is a par‑5?   Is that the par‑5?   16, 17?   Is 15‑‑ did we birdie 15? 

Q.   You birdied 14 and 15.   I think. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Oh, 15 was downhill, sort of ball outside left about four meters, I think.   And then the par‑5 was only about a meter and a half. 

Q.   Okay.   And I think you're ranked 70 now in CME points.   Has that been on your mind at all trying to get into that final?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah.   No, definitely.   We came in with that goal this week just to play and definitely get through it and getting to this week.

Q.   Rack some points up and get in for good?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Hopefully I can pull that through, amongst other things.

Q.   All right.   Cool.   Awesome.   Well, nice playing.   Thank you.   I'll see you tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT