MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2014
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tied for the lead.   What do you think your chance is going into tomorrow?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I'm not going to think about that.   I think I play a very similar type of game every time I go out there:   try to hit the fairways and try to hit the green and make the putt, and so far it's been working. 
Hopefully coming down the stretch it's going to be enough.

Q.   Having won eight times in Europe, what kind of breakthrough would this be for you in the States?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Obviously Europe is quite a bit different from America.   I think the courses are a little more strict.   The pins are a bit more difficult. 
So just for my own golf it'll mean quite a lot to be able to come out here and play well.   It already has made my week.   So was tired in the beginning of the week and now this happened, so I'm very excited. 

Q.   To be in contention and have a chance, just steady and even going?   What do you think? 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, I'm going to do the same thing.   Like I say, fairways ‑ which wasn't great today.   Hopefully tomorrow a little bit more fairways so I can get the good impact on the iron shots into the greens.
Just playing the safe side of pin every time and having a (indiscernible) putt. 

Q.   For you having a 68 here, you feel like that's not necessarily a good round for you; is that right? 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   No, I'm not saying that.   I did miss a lot of putts sort of in the beginning of the round.   But, no, 68 is always a good round.   Never going to laugh that.   I'm happy with that, so... 

Q.   There will be somewhere around nine or ten players within three strokes of the lead.   How chaotic might that be tomorrow? 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, the whole LPGA is chasing.   No, I think if you can just remain within yourself and play for your strong points, the way I'm playing my putts normally, I think if you keep doing that hopefully have a good day. 
End of the day coming down the stretch, I hope I'm one shot ahead, maybe too two.   If not, I'll take it as it is.

Q.   What went into your decision to play mostly full time on the LPGA this year?   Going back to Q‑School? 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, went back to Q‑School.   I was a bit disappointed obviously missing out on the full card because I had a really good season last year in Europe. 
Just very happy to be in America and playing here.   Obviously it makes a big difference in the way that I'm feeling that I'm playing well.   Getting progressively better every week, so just loving to be out here and playing on the LPGA.

Q.   So pretty far into your career, I guess by age‑wise; considered a veteran.   Still new on the LPGA full time.   What would it mean to just get a really good finish here, let alone a win for you?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I'm trying not to think about it, but I guess you have to ask those questions.   It would be awesome.   It will set me up obviously for next year and hopefully some good events at the end of the year.
All in all, I would like to have a good finish.   Am I going to go for the win?   Yes, of course I'm going to push for that.   At the end of the day you never can tell who will win.   There are a lot the factors involved in that.
I'll just try and do my best.

Q.   When was the last time you found yourself in the final group?   An event in Europe or... 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Europe, yes, last year.

Q.   You remember the event?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Three events.   I won three event last year.

Q.   So you were in the hunt. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Probably October. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT