MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 18, 2014
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You were up, down, and then up there at the finish.   Talk about that a little bit of a rollercoaster.   At the turn you were minus 8 and then you gave some back and then you got it here.   Great finish. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I felt like I played really well.   I've been hitting the ball really well.   Unfortunately on one of those holes, I can't even remember now which one it was, guess it got my confidence a little bit on the putting.   Missed a shortish one for birdie after that.
Yeah, just missed it long.   So I was a little bit down after that, but then finished strong so happy about that.

Q.   Obviously have to wait to see what Laura does today, but talk about your position, how good you feel going into the weekend. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, I'm very happy about the position.   I would like to be in contention on the weekend.   That's when the fun starts, right?   So hopefully I can keep hitting the ball like I am and make a couple of putts on the weekend, and you never know. 

Q.   You been playing the game for a while.   Just talk about what that does, the last shot of the day like that, to close out psychologically heading into the next day?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, after that rollercoaster, like you said, it makes a big difference finishing birdie‑birdie.   Makes you feel a lot better going into tomorrow. 
I think back nine is definitely a little bit easier, more scorable, so very happy about this finish. 

Q.   Outside of a hole‑in‑one, only an eagle there, I mean, can't get much better. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   No, especially the finish.   I would've loved it to go in.   Actually I nearly holed the one on 17 also.   That was another tap‑in.   Wedges are looking good.   Also yesterday really close, yeah.

Q.   Was that the trend today, your approaches were the best shots you had?   What was the strong part of your game? 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I think my driver is very straight.   I hit a lot of fairways.   That's been going on for quite sometime now.   Last five weeks I've been progressively getting better and better.
My iron play is really good this week, but obviously got this very nice, lovely green grass after the British Open.   It makes a big difference.   Yeah, the greens are more receptive in the morning. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT