MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 17, 2014
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   One of the best rounds of the afternoon.   You got to be happy.   
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, really happy.   I played very consistently.   Actually been playing quite well for the last several weeks, so, yeah, been good.  
   
 Q.   Why were you able to take advantage this afternoon?   Obviously not many low scores this afternoon.   
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Not sure why now.   I think the greens are quite receptive.   I just hit it on the good side of the hole and pretty close to afternoon.   Just been striking my irons really well and shaping it into the holes.  
   
 Q.   Where can you take advantage tomorrow to continue chipping away?  
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Morning is always a little bit easier.   I think the greens will be a little bit more receptive.   Just play one shot at a time and try and get it in the hole and move on.  
   
 Q.   What happened with the birdies on 6 and 7?  
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   6 and 7 was the par‑5s?   Hit it pretty close, about two meters, inside right putt.  
And the previous hole‑‑ I can't even remember 6, to be honest.  
   
 Q.   Three.   
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Par‑3, uphill.   Oh, yes.   I made a little bit of a slider.   Probably about 25 foot.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   You struggled early with a bogey and six birdies after that.   How did you regroup after the first bogey?  
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   You know you're going to make some bogeys sometimes.   Just, like I said, try to hit every shot at a time.   My driver has been really straight; my irons have been progressively better each week.   A good score was on its way.  
   
 Q.   What's the key out here?   
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Just staying patient.   Every week it's the staying patient and trying to get into contention and hopefully play well on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   What will be your plan tomorrow?   
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Same thing:   fairways, greens, and get the ball in the hole.  
   
 Q.   Were there any challenging holes or parts of the course where you really said, I've got to tinker with things a bit to move forward?  
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I haven't really thought about it that way.   To be honest, I'm a bit tired coming from the British.   I haven't really been giving a lot of thought to anything.   Just listen to my caddie and hit it where he tells me to hit it.   
It's gone great today.   Hopefully I can keep doing that.  
   
 Q.   When with you get into town?  
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Monday night.  
   
 Q.   When you go through traveling through, what, six or seven time zones coming here, how do you mentally and physically regroup for another tournament?  
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Physically I took Tuesday off.   Went to the movies.  
   
 Q.   What did you see?   
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I saw Planet of the Apes.   Really good.   I enjoyed it.   Serious movie, but the other option was How to Train Your Dragon, so I went for that one.  
No, I had to take Tuesday off.   I pretty tired obviously.   Even Wednesday I was a bit zoned out.   Luckily today I was rested.   My caddie has been here a couple times, so he basically directed me where to go.  
   
 Q.   How long does to take to get over the jet lag?  
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   They say it's about an hour a day.   Six hours, so almostcaught up.   By Saturday on the I'll be caught up just in time to go back.  
   
 Q.   Felt like your game was on the verge of some really good golf?   
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, I'm very happy the way I've been playing, like I said, for the last few weeks.   Even the US Open.   Starting from there I started striking the ball really well.  
Last week I saw a friend of mine who I worked with a little bit coaching‑wise, and just getting better and better every week.   It's nice to be out on the LPGA for a change and see what I can do here.   Hopefully I can carry that through to the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT