OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 17, 2011
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So Lee‑Anne, second place.   Reaction. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I'm pretty happy.   I've reached my goal.   Actually I'm one off my goal, but I still would have lost.   But at the end of the day I played really well.   I think today I kept my composure well.
I guess I could have had things a little bit different.   I hit a bad club on I think it was number 12 over the green which cost me a shot, and I think that's where things changed around.   But I'm pretty happy I played well.

Q.   At one stage you were winning.   Just very briefly, did you think you could go in there and win?   Obviously you did?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah.   I wouldn't call it winning.   That was early in the day still with 10 holes to play, but yeah, I thought I had a pretty good chance, but realistically thinking, I think I had to shoot like 8‑under today, which at that stage I could have done, but I didn't.

Q.   And your putter today, how was that working?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   It was okay.   I only was one sort of short on one, but in the beginning it was really good, really hot and I got it going.   At the end just making birdie on 17 was very nice.

Q.   And the word about the winner?   Impressed with her this week?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yes, of course.   A good week for Cobra‑PUMA.   First and second, but awesome player.   I mean the way she played today, she just completely out played all of us.

Q.   Congratulations on your second place. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Thank you. 

Q.   I was out there for a little bit, 10 through 12 and you had a birdie chance on one of those and I think you missed the putt. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   On 11.

Q.   Yeah.   Seemed like the putter kind of did go a little cold.   Like you had birdies, but it wasn't ‑‑ what can you say about the putting?   A little bit more struggle on the Back 9 or what happened on the Back 9 that you weren't seeing it?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I think I lost a little bit of focus on 10 after I pulled that drive left, made a pretty good par.   Hit it good on the next hole and then really it hit something, jumped right and I missed the putt.   I'm not sure if it would have gone in or not. 
And then missed the next one coming back, but you know, I've been hitting those short ones for a while.   It's just the first time.   So a little bit of pressure there, but then I kept making them again towards the end, which made the difference between second and third or fourth. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT