OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 16, 2011
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   So Lee‑Anne, congratulations on your round.   Reaction, please. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah.   Played really well today, obviously.   No bogeys, which was a goal at the beginning of the day.   And also very close to my goal that I set in the beginning of the week.
THE MODERATOR:   And what was that goal at the beginning of the week.
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I thought 3‑under every day would be a pretty good score at the end of the week, so I'm one off that.   Pity about the last putt.   I really wanted that one, but didn't make it.   So tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR:   Yeah.   Just came up a little short.   Why was that, a little bit, didn't want to go past the hole.
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   No, I thought it would be quicker actually because it's down grain, downhill, so I really thought it would be quicker, but it wasn't.   It's on line, so it was still a good putt.
THE MODERATOR:   You're currently one off the lead.   Pretty confident this is going to be the win that you've been waiting for all season.
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I'm not really thinking about that.   Like I said, I'm just going to go out and try and get my goal for tomorrow and hopefully that's going to be enough.
THE MODERATOR:   Have you ever played against Lexi Thompson.
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, I played with her in Australia I think in the beginning of the year, very good player, obviously, very long off the tee, but yeah, hopefully I'll play with her.
THE MODERATOR:   Any particular preparations you'll do for tomorrow?   Are you going to relax tonight, no practice.
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   No.   I'll probably practice a little bit now afterwards, but just doing the same thing, hang out with my friends and coming back fresh tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR:   Good luck to you.   Cheers. 

Q.   What was it about today that came together?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yesterday I played a little bit left of the pin all day, and I just sorted that out.   Actually I asked my coach from Denmark and he's like, move your ball back, because the driver was fine, so he's like if the driver is okay, then the ball position is probably too far forward on my irons, and I moved it back and today I was just hitting it much better.

Q.   So just making fairways and ‑‑
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Actually I missed a lot of fairways today.   I think I only made about five fairways, but I hit a lot of greens, 16 greens, and the putting was rolling good.

Q.   And how important was the 20‑footer on the first hole?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Obviously every putt is of the same importance, but to make that one was pretty important because after that I didn't make any bogeys.   But I rolled it well on the putting green this morning, and I thought to myself on that putt, I was like, okay, you can make this.   You rolled it well, and then it went in, so it was good.   Putted well after that.

Q.   You kind of snuck in under the radar almost. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Right.   Wasn't quite there.

Q.   You were up on the leaderboard on the third day.   You've got the momentum with you heading into the fourth and final?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, very good feeling.   Like I said earlier, just trying to reach that 3‑under every day, so looking for four tomorrow.   Obviously if I beat it great, and if I come close, also good.

Q.   When you go up against someone like Thompson, like you said, big hitter, young kid, is it like any other competitor or the idea of going head to head with her, how does that make you feel?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I've played with her before and done quite well against her.   So she is a big hitter.   We play completely different, but I'm very confident in my putting and my short game, so looking forward to that.

Q.   What's the mindset, then, heading into the fourth day, because from today's play you're the only thing moving in a stagnant pool.   So that must be a good feeling. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Well, nice word. 

Q.   They could be viewed as a few sitting ducks out there.   Let's put it like that. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   What is the actual question?   How do I feel about moving? 

Q.   Well, like you know, you must be very positive. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, very positive.   But like I said, I wasn't chasing the top so much as chasing my own goal, and therefore that would get me to the top.   And I'm just doing the same tomorrow, trying not to look at the leaderboard too much, obviously, knowing that you can make a lot of birdies on the Back 9, the front nine is quite important in getting a couple of birdies and not just chasing on the back.

Q.   Looking at the way your season has turned out, no wins, obviously, but you've been playing some good golf the last couple of tournaments. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Everyone has said that all year.

Q.   But isn't it true that you've had three chances to win in your final hole or something, and you missed the putts or something. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I did.

Q.   I hate to bring that up, but what would it mean to close out this one with a win?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Basically it would be really good for me.   I've been looking for the win all year.   Didn't get it.   Spain was my best chance probably, also Switzerland, but Switzerland was quite a longer putt and a difficult putt. 
But yeah, to do that, I guess just brought me back down to earth and I have to start all over and try and win when I can.

Q.   Last year obviously there was all the hype around you and Laura and the money list. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, I saw Caroline shot 4‑under or something today. 

Q.   Yeah, yeah.   She's got the upper hand on that sort of thing.   But obviously last year perhaps you didn't enjoy your time on the course because of that pressure surrounding you.   How much nicer is it to attack the course without that burden so you can just sort of focus on the holes?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, exactly.   The focus is off me because I'm not winning the money list, so that did make it quite a lot harder, I guess.   At the time you don't want to admit it to yourself, but there was quite a lot of pressure when you're playing, and I think the same probably with Mel and Caroline this week. 
But this week I didn't even bring my coach out or anything.   I just wanted to play.   I was playing good.   So yeah, it's good.   I mean I can go and just play well, underdog, I guess, a little bit, in a little way. 

Q.   What would it mean to you to win this one?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   It would be amazing.   It's a win I've been looking for.   It's a big one also and I've played quite well in the big events, except the British and Evian this year.   So be absolutely amazing to finish and win.

Q.   Do you think this would be the biggest win of your career?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah, probably, if you look at the field, there's really good players and players from America and stuff, yeah, so it'll definitely be the best one to win.

Q.   75 grand is a nice Christmas present as well, isn't it?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   It would be.   Actually I want to buy one of those paddle boards.   So then I wouldn't have to worry. 

Q.   There you go.   You're in Dubai as well.   And you talked about Spain and Switzerland and the third chance (inaudible). 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   I finished third somewhere, I think, maybe twice. 

Q.   I had heard at least I thought you had three chances to win this year on the tour.   You mentioned Spain and Switzerland.   Was there a third?   Was there one you came quite close?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Right.   I think I was close in the beginning of the last day and just didn't really ‑‑

Q.   So two really technically two?
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Two, that I ‑‑

Q.   Switzerland and Spain. 
LEE‑ANNE PACE:   Yeah.   I was really close.

Q.   Good luck to you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT