ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
July 28, 2018
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Third round of 72, hard-fought conditions today.  Tell me a little about your round?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yeah, it was super hard out there, especially the holes coming in.  This is the sort of golf where you had to really play against the wind to keep it on the green.  It's howling left-to-right, and drive, also tough.
Yeah, very happy with my round.  I feel like that's an under-par round today.  So, yeah, we'll see what happens tomorrow.
Q. I guess when you started the day when they said, are you going to shoot 1-over par and you're going to move up the leaderboard, you probably wouldn't have believed it, right?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Well, when the wind gets up, it gets up, like it did today. Tomorrow is supposed to be worse.  As long as you hang in there and stay patient like we did today, we made two birdies I think and took a couple of chances here and there.  The rest of the time, we played to the middle of the green.
Q. Is there any conditions that you'd like to have or do you just take it as it comes?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Take it as it comes.  Today was tough.  I think I'm going to sleep well tonight.  It's probably the worst wind I've actually ever played in, especially down there at the ocean.
Q. Worst wind you've ever played in, anywhere in South Africa?
LEE-ANNE PACE: It would definitely be the strongest wind I've played, yeah.  I'm hitting a 3-wood in for 170 metres, you know, so that's hectic.
Q. Taking that into next week, the RICOH Women's British Open, do you think, does that stand you in good stead for Royal Lytham?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yeah, that course is a bit of a beast, isn't it, especially also like the incoming holes, the holes coming back to the clubhouse, really tough.
So yeah, I'm not sure if it's going to be this windy.  I looked at the weather, a little bit rainy, sort of maybe two, three clubs, but yeah, I'm excited to play.  It's been my first British Open, ever, that I've played there.  So it will be my anniversary of my British Open.
Q. And just last question, any key holes out there that you see sort of deciding the championship?  I've heard a lot about the 13th hole being a tough par 4 into wind, and par 5s downwind.
LEE-ANNE PACE: I cannot now even tell you what the hole is.  I can't remember.  I literally just took one hole one shot at a time.  It was just tough.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT