MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
June 10, 2017
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Lee-Anne Pace, you set the pace today.  I was waiting for that one.  66 today; 6-under.  Take us through your round.  You must be fairly pleased.  
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yeah, I putted really nicely today.  The last few days I played well as well.  Yesterday I had a bad finish.   
But just striking it very solidly and the putts dropped today, so that was good.   
 Q.  It's kind of windy here on the 18th hole, but talking to one of the scorecard carriers, they said it wasn't really that windy out on the course.  Or is it?  What are the conditions like out there?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: The front nine wasn't; the back nine it started picking up, and the last few holes there was a fair bit of wind, maybe a club.   
But there are tricky pins coming in, 16, 17, 18; especially 17 it's tough to get close.  Tricky putt down there.   
 Q.  For you this season it's kind of been up and down.  I think back in March at the Bank of Hope you had a minus 12 overall.  Do you think this is kind of turning your season around, especially the way you played today?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: Yeah, look, I went home for about six weeks in the middle of the season, which is unheard of, I guess.  I had some things to do at home, so I took some time off.  My season really only started when I came back at Founders.   
But I'm feeling a lot better about my golf.  I'm practicing properly and getting out there, so I am looking forward to the next few weeks.   
 Q.  So minus 10 after the three rounds.  You think that's going to stay as the leader in the clubhouse?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: No, no, no.  I mean, a lot of the par-5s are quite reachable and easy, so there are quite a lot of low scores out there.   
You know, maybe the wind picks up and I move up a bit.   
 Q.  Speaking of the Par-5s, No. 9 I guess you had a look for eagle.  I wasn't there.  Did it just lip out?  Just miss it?  
LEE-ANNE PACE: No, I left it terribly short actually.  Yeah, I had a bit of trouble on that hole, but I was happy to birdie it today.   
I had a really nice look on 12 and I just (indiscernible) the hole, so two nice eagle looks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT