SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CTBC
April 24, 2016
Lee-Anne Pace
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Lee-Anne, the thing that stuck out with me is you were smiling the whole time.  Through all the drama, you were just enjoying the whole experience, huh?
LEE-ANNE PACE: I was?  I don't think after five holes I was thinking about smiling, but after I made a few birdies, yeah.  It was definitely tough out there, but Haru played amazing golf, and she was very steady, so congratulations to her.
Q. You just kept on coming, kept on coming to the point where you were on the verge of doing something here.
LEE-ANNE PACE: I was close, yeah, towards the end there.  I think maybe if I made that putt on the par-3, I could have had a better chance.  But I'm very happy with my result.
Q. What was going through your head after the first five bogeys?
LEE-ANNE PACE: What are you doing?  No, you know, my caddie came to me again, and he said to me, everyone is going down, be patient.  I know we made some mistakes, but come on, let's get it back to even par, and that was our goal, and we got it back to 2-over, so nearly reached the goal and got a good result in the end.
Q. What were the conditions like for you out there?
LEE-ANNE PACE: Personally, insane.  No, look, it was freezing.  It was very, very gusty.  A lot of the shots you stood over and it was just really, really difficult to commit to the lines, everything.  It was a very tough day out there.
Q. Here's the question:  Did the contacts hold up?
LEE-ANNE PACE: I hope so.  We did make a few putts coming in.  I love working with him.  He's just such a positive guy to have on the bag.  In the past maybe that 5-over would have been turned into something else, but with him -- it's just great.
Q. I don't know of anybody that comes to mind that went through what you guys went through to get a pair of contact lenses.
LEE-ANNE PACE: I know, right?  I woke up and he said to me, I need to go to the doctor.  I need to get contacts.  I was like, okay, it's like two hours before we tee off, but go ahead, fine.
Q. Now you guys will get a chance to get a refill, right, a real refill?
LEE-ANNE PACE: I think a friend of his is coming back from South Africa, so he'll get another six months' worth, lucky for me.
Q. Any adjustments to the game that you had to make after the first five?
LEE-ANNE PACE: I think I just didn't trust it on the first five holes.  I didn't realize the putting was going to be that difficult.  The ball was moving a little bit, so it was difficult to just try and make a good stroke on it.  I missed a couple of short ones quickly, three-putted No. 2, missed a short one on 3, so that set me back a little bit.  But after we started making the putts and getting a few back on the back nine, everything was fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT