NBA FINALS: LAKERS VS. HEAT
October 5, 2020
Meyers Leonard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about not having Goran, not having Bam, and how you guys really approach that next-man-up mentally, especially in your situation?
MEYERS LEONARD:   So not having Goran and Bam for us is obviously very difficult.  You know, those are guys that we've counted on, guys who are proven. One thing we always talk about is the next man up.  The ability to have guys stay ready day in and day out is a testament to the culture, testament to each player who's stayed ready.
In the playoffs it's like all bets are off.  It's winning time.  You know, doesn't make it any easier, but when you stay ready and remain positive on the bench during timeouts, in the film sessions, everything matters.  All of the little things matter. That's how you win games, the littlest things in a huddle or listening to Bam and Goran in those huddles.  That’s the biggest thing, our togetherness. Our locker room is incredibly strong and we all believe in each other.  We each have a chip on our shoulder for a different reason.
I know for me personally I'm blessed to be a part of this group and this organization.  I'll do whatever the hell it takes to win.  That's me personally.
Q. Meyers, I know that you’re kind of a spark plug, especially animated on the bench yesterday.  Does your mentality and preparation or any of that change when your role on the court grows in size?
MEYERS LEONARD:   That's a great question.  I would say that I have to be a little bit more aware of, honestly, my energy level. For example, during the Milwaukie and Boston series I had a pretty good idea that I wasn't going to be in the game.  So being up and loud constantly, it's something I always do, but there was another level to it.
Coming into the Lakers series I knew they had a big frontline.  Obviously when Bam went down I knew that I was going to have probably an opportunity to play, so I just have to pick my moments.  But that's who I am regardless.  I want the best for my team, my teammates, and it keeps me engaged as well.
I'm always in film, I’m always into the scout.  The truth is the playoffs is possession basketball and executions.  If I can catch one pick and roll before it happens or get one of our young guys rotated quicker, that leads to a stop and let's say an easy transition bucket that changes the game and wins us the game, those things matter.
So my communication has all been a big part of who I am as a player both on and off the floor.  So ultimately, yes, I do have to be a little bit more cognizant now of how much I'm expending when I need to be getting some rest. But regardless I'm always going to use my voice and help however I can.
Q. What jumps out to you from what you see with Jimmy's day-to-day behind the scenes?
MEYERS LEONARD:   For starters, Jimmy is a great leader and a great person.  Obviously, I spent seven years in Portland and you wonder -- when you hear things around the league you wonder, is it true, is it not.  What is Jimmy Butler really like?  I for one never judge anybody until I know them personally.
He's the ultimate competitor.  He's who you want to play with.  Every single day he is so focused and so dialed in, not only for himself, but helping others and his teammates.  His routine when it comes to body work, recovery, diet, sleep, you name it, it's off the charts.
He simply wants to win.  That's all that matters to him.  Whatever it takes to win he's going to do.  When it comes to challenging teammates or having a high level of expectation, I see no problem with that because first of all, we're getting paid millions of dollars to play basketball and we’re playing a game we love.
So when you're talking about a guy who's a superstar, a max player, one of the best players in the league, I think it's okay this he holds his team accountable.  He's putting in the work, and so I see no issue with it. To answer your question, his focus and level of detail and effort every single day is off the charts.  When it comes to everything.  Again, you name it.  Film, whatever.  The guy is locked in; all he wants to do is win. That's what I love about him.
Q. Staying on Jimmy, you’ve seen this with Damian Lillard, when they're on fire, what it's like to watch and play with a person like that, like last night?
MEYERS LEONARD:   Yeah, it's incredible.  Obviously Jimmy's performance last night, historic to say the least.  I think there was only like three, 40-point triple doubles in Finals history.
Just the level of impact that Jimmy Butler has on the game is incredible.  I watched him go in the Milwaukie series from scoring 40 to scoring, I don’t know, maybe 15 and not caring because we won the next game.
His level of detail when it comes to preparation and understanding how to execute a game plan is off the charts.  If they're going to guard me now, I'm finding young guys on the weak side or finding Bam at the rim, whatever it is. His ability to be in the gap and then close out and stop the drive and then grab a rebound, take off in transition, like everything just -- his level impact is truly incredible. So last night in particular, he just wasn't wanting to lose.  That's all there is to it.  He's the ultimate competitor.  He will do anything to win.  You saw last night, 40, 11, and 12.  That's incredible.
I don't know how many minutes he played, but it was something absurd, and he wasn't tired because his conditioning is off the charts.  Obviously at certain points he was gassed. But just to play with a guy who has such a high level of impact is -- on both end of the floor -- is really fun to watch and fun to play with as well.
I experienced that obviously throughout the beginning of the season.  I started every game, and just breaking down film and watching everything he really does and how he gets his teammates involved, the little things -- the average player wouldn’t even see, some people would see it.  That's what I'm always impressed with, his just willingness to do whatever it takes. That's what is special about Jimmy.
And then lastly, when he gets it going like that and just takes the game and just like squeezes the life out of it, I don't know.  There is just something about it.  Get the ball to Jimmy and let's watch him go to work.  Then he gets a stop, another stop, then a rebound, now he's out in transition.  Boom, now he makes the right play instead of thinking, oh, let me try to get 50.  No, I'm trying to make the right play.
That is what I'm always so impressed with him, just the competitiveness and the team mindset.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT