U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2016
Gavin Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're in contention, might end up being medalist.  Was that an expectation you had coming into the week?
GAVIN HALL: That was my goal coming in, especially for these two days of stroke play, it's always nice to have a little mini-tournament, and that's how I usually play this U.S. Amateur.  I play two tournaments, and it's nice to play well, especially this morning in tough conditions.  Yeah, that was the goal.
Q. It changes a little bit now going into tomorrow.  How does your mindset change going into match play, and do you like playing match play?
GAVIN HALL: I love match play.  It's a completely different aspect of golf.  You have to be aggressive on each hole, one hole at a time, against another player.  But no, I'm really looking forward to it.  This is my fourth one, so I feel like I've got good experience and great experience in the NCAA, too.
Q. Talk about the club you're playing; did you know the history of this place?  Have you learned anything looking at the walls inside the clubhouse?
GAVIN HALL: I remember when I was younger watching Padraig and Sergio come down the stretch on this course, but I hear it a lot back home because there's a lot of prestigious courses where I'm from and they always say that Oakland Hills is very similar.  I'm familiar with Donald Ross courses.  I love the way they play, and to have a USGA setup like this is awesome.
Q. Tell us about playing through all the various weather conditions today.  I think you saw a little bit of everything out there.
GAVIN HALL: Yeah, yeah, it felt like I was in Scotland for a few holes and then maybe like a fall day, it kind of got a little cold.  Everyone has got to play through this stuff.  I felt like I wasn't making any mistakes the first, I would say, maybe 14 holes.  But I'm proud of the way I hung in there at the end.  It's definitely difficult.  The wind is up.  The par-3s are tough, and if you're missing greens, it's not easy to get the ball up-and-down.
Q. Are you going to miss playing the North Course at all?
GAVIN HALL: I love the South Course, just because of how demanding it is off the tee.  It reminds me a lot of Oak Hill East, and I'm fortunate enough to play that course a lot back home.  I feel like I have really good preparation.  This week before, I decided just to play -- lucky there's three Donald Ross courses right in my backyard at home, so that's what I've been trying to play in preparing for this tournament.  I was on a really nice program working out and practicing, and I feel like my game is there.
Q. What are those three courses?
GAVIN HALL: CCR, Country Club of Rochester, which is CCR; and then Oak Hill, which has two Donald Ross; and then Monroe, which is another one, too.
Q. I think you had an eagle on No. 2?
GAVIN HALL: Yes.
Q. Tell us about that if you don't mind.
GAVIN HALL: Yeah, I hit a good drive.  It was downwind today, so it played a lot easier.  Went driver, 8-iron, and then fortunate enough to make like a 25-footer.
Q. Coming through with a 1-under on the course that's dubbed the monster, that's got to be a good feeling?
GAVIN HALL: Yeah, two rounds under par is good in any sort of circumstances in a USGA event.  I feel like I'm able to hone my game right now, like I said, but match play is completely different, and you see that all the time.  It's just a switch that you've got to flip.  That's why it's two different tournaments here.
Q. Do you feel like Porter Cup, final round, you played well, it's just the other guy played better; western, missing by a shot, do you feel like maybe that was better for you mentally coming into here than maybe if you had made match play and won the Porter Cup because it kind of maybe kept that fire or that hunger there?
GAVIN HALL: Yeah, I mean, regardless, even if I did win those tournaments or play well at the western, you know, I want to play well each week.  Seeing what Beau Hossler did last season and to win five or six times with the Jones Cup, that's something I want to get after.  That's a goal of mine, to win a lot next year.  I think all of our teammates are capable of doing that.  We're fortunate to see that type of season.  You don't see that often.  I'm pretty lucky.  So that's what we're trying to do is trying to win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT