U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2016
Gavin Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Texas is leading the team portion of the U.S. Amateur, 13-under combined for your teammates.  Talk about that.
GAVIN HALL: I didn't even know that.  I knew Scottie played well and then Doug posted, I think, 1-under this morning.
Q. Taylor shot 4.
GAVIN HALL: Taylor shot 4, too.  That's good playing.  Those guys push.  I mean, we all push each other, so it's pretty fun to be playing at amateur tournaments and also have four Texas guys in the same event.  I didn't know that.  That's pretty cool.
Q. How often do you guys see each other at events like this when you're out playing together in the summer?
GAVIN HALL: You know, we're mostly doing our own things, unless we have host families and we stay at each other's houses.  But whenever we see each other, we're always giving little zingers here and there.  We just know each other well, and we really grew up after that finals I felt like, not having Beau there, it was just us four, and I think we really grew even in that one day.  We learned a lot from it.  We're a heck of a lot better.
Q. Especially Taylor?
GAVIN HALL: Yeah, no question.  I mean, he's had -- you just see it in his eyes.  I feel like he's really determined to have a good couple years in college and then Doug and Scottie, too, the way Scottie played the last round in that match, too, against Aaron.
Q. Tell me about your round today; you were bogey-free today, a clean round?
GAVIN HALL: Yeah, any time you can be bogey-free in a USGA event, it's pretty good.  I'm happy with the way I played.  This course is really gettable, especially with the conditions out there.  They were a little difficult on the back.  I felt like I was able to control my ball for the most part.  But tomorrow is going to be a new challenge.  A lot of guys are going low.  Hopefully the rain holds off, and it's dramatically different on the other course.  It's just you've got to be on every single hole.
Q. Is there a little strategy at play knowing you have the North today and then heading to the monster tomorrow, trying to get your low number in?
GAVIN HALL: Yeah, it's hard to make up ground on the South Course.  Maybe it's a good thing to start off on this course, maybe not.  But you need to play well, especially on this one.  I think with it being soft out there, it is gettable, but at the same time it's a lot more demanding than the North Course is.
Q. Do you like playing the easier course in 36-hole qualifiers like this?  Do you like playing the easier course first, or would you rather have that second?
GAVIN HALL: I don't know, I haven't figured kind of this tournament yet.  It's so hard.  There's so many guys.  There's so many different variables going on.  The only thing you can control is just how you're playing.  Hopefully you get a good pairing, good weather, and this tournament is unlike any other.
Q. What was clicking for you today?  Was there anything in particular?  Were you feeling good going into the round?
GAVIN HALL: I've been feeling good ever since that Porter Cup.  I felt like I played really well there.  Western Am I was one off the cut.  I've been working really hard this summer.  And then after that season we had, I felt like I was hungry to compete this summer.  We all are.  I mean, you can see it with our scores.  I feel pretty strong.  I've been working hard.  It's good to see the results paying off.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT