TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2010
Gavin Hall
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. So I'm sure you'll remember this for a long time. How was it?  
 GAVIN HALL: Yeah. Yeah, it was a good day. It was all right. Just a struggle from the first hole as you guys could see.   
 But you know, that's going to happen in golf. It was just unfortunate, one of my bad days of golf happened at a PGA TOUR event.   
 But I still have a lot of confidence. I've been having strong finishes the last three or four weeks, and I think today I can definitely improve on it and post a good number tomorrow.  
  
  Q. How good do you feel about the finish you came in? You birdied 18, came in 1-under the last four. Does it feel good after what happened on 13 and 14?  
 GAVIN HALL: Yeah. Middle part of the round was just rough. I wasn't in rhythm today.   
 It was a good learning experience, I think, because I've never had a big crowd like that around the ropes and everything. It was just a different feeling, so I was out of rhythm most of the whole day. But I definitely learned a lot from today, and if I can improve a little more here and there, I think I'll play well tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What did you learn?  
 GAVIN HALL: I learned, you know, keep your emotions in control. That's the thing. Tim and Cameron they didn't get too high, they didn't get too low. I think their demeanor on the golf course, you can learn so much from TOUR players out here, just to stay in sync and keep playing along.  
  
  Q. The first hole you drive whatever it is, are you thinking, all right, here we go?  
 GAVIN HALL: Yeah. Yeah. I was looking to hit the green, get off to a good start.   
 My putting's been great all season, and I knew if I gave myself chances, good looks today, I'd roll some in, but ball striking just wasn't there. So I'll go work on it tonight and come out tomorrow prepared.  
 I feel like I'm rolling it well enough to post some under par.  
  
  Q. I think you played really well. (Indiscernible).   
 GAVIN HALL: Yeah. Yeah. You could tell on the first hole and 13th hole. It just wasn't there. It was one of those off days, and like I said, it's just unfortunate it happened today. But it's going to happen. You can't control that. Great players don't play well every day.  
  
  Q. Did you have fun?  
 GAVIN HALL: Yeah. Definitely. How can't you when everyone's out there watching, rooting you on? That's what kept me going today was the support from the fans. I'm just glad everyone came out today. And it was a little unfortunate I couldn't post a good number, but that's why I got tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Did the other guys give you any advice or talk to you?  
 GAVIN HALL: Oh, yeah. I've met Cameron before, and Tim is a lefty, which is nice. Yeah, he's a solid player. He played a great round today. And we talked here and there, but mostly we stuck to our own game.  
  
  Q. Could you hear the people in the crowd, Gavin, saying "way to go, Gavin?" There was a lot of good encouragement.   
 GAVIN HALL: Yeah. Yeah. There was a ton of encouragement. I enjoyed that. I liked that. I teed off. It keeps me motivated, a little more confidence. It's a good edge to have because a lot of the TOUR players right now Thursday and Friday they don't get that. I think it's nice that I have a big crowd like that, local support to help me play some good golf.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 GAVIN HALL: Oh, I think half the crowd, mostly my family. It was nice I could get them some tickets and whatever they needed. The player support was awesome.   
  
  Q. Was it frustrating? You talk about being able to put up a good number still. Most of your mistakes were from good spots, short putted 9, middle of the fairway 12, middle of the fairway 13. Is that kind of what you're thinking where you could put up a good number tomorrow?  
 GAVIN HALL: Yeah. Yeah. I was definitely there. I mean even not playing my best, if I could have scrambled around, didn't make any big numbers, could have been right around par, which I would have liked to have, but it's just one of those things that happen.   
  
  Q. Tim was saying maybe you had a little adrenaline going there, went over the green on 1.   
 GAVIN HALL: Yeah. I'll try to control that a little more. That's what I learned the most. Keep playing in big tournaments, and control my emotions. And the adrenaline, calming myself a little bit is key.   
 I think I did it out here today, but the rough is just so thick where the ball jumps out of it and it's hard to control distances. So that's why I got tomorrow. I learned a lot today.  
  
  Q. Is making the cut still the goal tomorrow even as far back as you are right now?  
 GAVIN HALL: Oh, yeah. Definitely. I've already had a 62 this year, so I think there's one out there.  
  
  Q. With the scoring conditions, how good they are, does that help your confidence thinking you can go out and shoot low tomorrow?  
 GAVIN HALL: Yeah. Yeah. I played well the first three days. I felt good. Just a different day, I was out of sync, out of rhythm. But we had a totally different golf course the first three days. It was firm and fast, and to get the rain, which I don't mind. I'm used to playing in windy conditions like this.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT