TCS NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2014
Dikembe Mutombo
Jontai Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We're going to get started with Dikembe Mutombo, the finisher of the first ever NBA relay marathon.   Dikembe Mutombo, global ambassador of the NBA, NBA superstar, humanitarian.   What else?   
Great to have Dikembe here, an incredible first ever relay for the New York City Marathon, TCS New York City Marathon.   24 NBA personalities, legends, WNBA players, executives, led by NBA Commissioner Adam Silver, all running with a partner who is a young runner from the NYRR Youth Running programs.   This is all about promoting the need for kids to be active, stay fit, tied in with the NBA FIT program with NBA All‑Star, which is happening this February in both Brooklyn and New York in Madison Square Garden and Barclays Center, and a chance to showcase the need for adults and kids to come together to lead healthy lives.   
Dikembe, what was it like crossing that New York City Marathon finish line?   
DIKEMBE MUTOMBO:   To me, it was like a dream come true.   I never thought ever in my life that I would ever have a chance to take in part of the New York Marathon.   It's like a historic event.   
I'm glad that I was asked by the NBA and the Commissioner to come out to take part in this wonderful event.  
THE MODERATOR:   What was it like to be running with a young running partner?   Did he push you?   
DIKEMBE MUTOMBO:   I thought I was going to push him, but he end up pushing me (laughing).  
THE MODERATOR:   Who crossed the line first?   
DIKEMBE MUTOMBO:   I think he was like a second ahead.   But I'm really pleased that both of us was able to finish.   
THE MODERATOR:   Dikembe, do you think this is the beginning of you running your own marathon?   
DIKEMBE MUTOMBO:   Yes.   As a matter of fact, I got a chance to talk to a few colleagues that‑‑ it's such a great event.   I think this won't be my last.   I would like to take part next year, maybe go much longer than I did today.   
THE MODERATOR:   We'll hold you to that.   
   
 Q.   What was your time today, and were you satisfied with it?   
DIKEMBE MUTOMBO:   I don't know my time.   I need to ask my colleague outside.   But I was very happy with the pace that I run with.   Many people told me that I was going to walk after retiring five years ago, but I'm glad I pushed myself.   
It's great.   After running on a basketball court for so long and so many years, but it's good to be outside there running.   
THE MODERATOR:   If our race app is correct here, I think the exact NBA relay finish time was 4:48:09, achieving their goal of under five hours.   They don't want to talk about that, but that was the goal.   
Excellent.   You brought it home, Dikembe.   
DIKEMBE MUTOMBO:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   Certainly, you're one of the more prominent people out there.   What did the fans say to you?   What was your reaction to what they were saying to you the whole time?   
DIKEMBE MUTOMBO:   After being on the court and having fans, you never thought about going outside, and everybody going "NBA!   Mutombo!   NBA!"   It was great.   We understand that we want to continue to grow our game, and we want our fans to know that we are part of anything taking place in society.   We want to contribute.   We want to make a difference.   We want to reach our youth because we know that tomorrow the game belongs to them.   We're not going to be playing this game forever.   
So we need to have someone to pass the baton.   This gentleman was there with me.   I'm glad that he was able to run with me.   Maybe one day he might grow up and play in the NBA.   What do you think about that?   
JONTAI WILLIAMS:   That's great.   
THE MODERATOR:   We're being joined by Jontai Williams, who was the partner of Dikembe crossing the finish line.   Can you tell us how it felt today, Jontai?   
JONTAI WILLIAMS:   Going up and down the hill was great.   He pushed me, and I pushed him, and we got to the finish line.   
THE MODERATOR:   Jontai, if you could talk real quickly how much running has meant to you, how much you love running, and what it meant to be part of this event.   
JONTAI WILLIAMS:   I started running ever since I was 7 years old.   I was very energetic, so my mom was like, "You know what, you're going to do track."   So I started to be an NYRR ambassador when I was about 9, 10, and ever since I've been going to places, saying speeches, encouraging youth runners to keep running.   Then I achieved more in the classroom and athletics because of running.   
THE MODERATOR:   Where are you in school?   
JONTAI WILLIAMS:   I currently attend Cardinal Hayes High School.   
THE MODERATOR:   How old are you?   
JONTAI WILLIAMS:   I'm 15.  
   
 Q.   For both of you, how special is it to be the anchor leg to the relay, be the ones to cross the finish line together?   
DIKEMBE MUTOMBO:   To me, it was very special, and I think it mean a lot for both of us and for the NBA.   For all the youth up there, it's not just good to sit home watching television and playing video games.   Sometimes it's good for you to go out there, exercise, and keep your body fit, which is becoming a great part of our NBA campaign right now.   
We believe that our young people are facing so many diseases, especially the obesity and diabetes, which is taking a lot away from our children.   We believe that about them and being part of such NBA FIT, it will keep them away from everything, like diabetes especially.   
JONTAI WILLIAMS:   It's great for me, actually, to run the anchor leg and cross the finish line with a legendary NBA player like Dikembe Mutombo.   It's also to have fun and to show others that, if he can do it, I can do it, then you can do it.  
   
 Q.   You've been in the league for a very long time.   You saw a lot of great athletes in the NBA.   Is there anyone in your mind who you think would be a great marathon runner that's currently playing NBA or former?   
DIKEMBE MUTOMBO:   I think marathon would be great for so many of my partners who were playing in the league with me, including our commissioner, who took part in this.   To show that we are part of a great league, we have so many great talents, not just on the basketball court, but outside as well.   
I believe that so many guys today who are playing in the league can finish this marathon easily, because the way we train every summer to get ourself ready for the season is bigger than the marathon.   I would not name just one person.   I know the number is much higher.   
THE MODERATOR:   Dikembe, I just have to ask you, most people run in running shoes.   You seem to be running in high tops.   How did it feel?   
DIKEMBE MUTOMBO:   (Laughing) It didn't feel different at all.   I've been running all of my life with the high‑top shoes.   So I really don't know that much what it's like running with the low‑cut shoes.   So when I put these shoes on, it's a great brand; it's the Dikembe Mutombo brand.   So I was happy to run in them.  
   
 Q.   Did anyone wag their finger at you?   
DIKEMBE MUTOMBO:   Yes, you can get it easily.   Thank you guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT