TICKETCITY CACTUS BOWL: WASHINGTON v OKLAHOMA STATE
December 31, 2014
David Glidden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   If you do get your chance, it's been a long time since you received a punt.   Is that going to be a nerve‑wracking experience with all the timing, the spotlight you get?
DAVID GLIDDEN:   Not to me.   I mean, honestly, it's something I've done for a long time.   Did it for a while here even. 
To me, it's just going back there, getting possession back for the offense, but mainly trying to make a play.   You want to do whatever you can to help your team out. 

Q.   Beginning of the year the storyline was so many young guys on this team, don't know what to expect.   How much has this group grown?
DAVID GLIDDEN:   A whole lot.   You have to give a lot of credit to those young guys.   Man, they really rallied around everybody.   Older guys have taken them under their wings.   Great thing to see. 
The practices we've had these past few weeks.   If you go back and turn on the film, two‑a‑days, camp in August, you'll see a night‑and‑day difference. 

Q.   Playing a high‑quality opponent in the bowl game, you're playing a Washington team with All‑Americans, does that make it sweeter?
DAVID GLIDDEN:   Oh, yeah.   It's a competition.   You got to love the challenge.   It helps, all the young guys, going into spring ball.   You get all these extra practices in.   It's more work, guys going out there and getting better every day. 
It all ties in together once you add in the OU game, practice after that, then playing a quality opponent in Washington. 

Q.   Having Mason playing like he is so young, what does that say about his talent?   What does it say about the direction of where this program can go?
DAVID GLIDDEN:   It's definitely positive.   I mean, Mason has done a great job of coming in here, having confidence in himself, but also the guys around him.   Give the guys a lot of credit.   They've all had confidence in him, too, believe in him, rally around him. 
It's all been really good these past few weeks, everybody coming together, getting in a rhythm.   Everybody's just really enjoying themselves and going to work every day. 

Q.   What has been the best example of his leadership? 
DAVID GLIDDEN:   There's really a few.   But probably every day in practice, it really shows up in games, but the confidence he has in the huddle whenever everybody is in there.   You kind of expect a young guy that started his first couple games so late in the year to maybe be a little bit nervous, riled in there, whatever the case may be. 
It's the exact opposite in there.   He's firm in his play calls in there, keeping everybody calm, telling everybody, We're going to make the next play.   It's impressive, if you asked me. 

Q.   Are you impressed with your coach doing the selfie thing?
DAVID GLIDDEN:   I am impressed.   I think the selfie day we had back home got him excited.   I think he might have enjoyed that quite a bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT