NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 7, 2012
Travis Zajac
Dainius Zubrus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Did it even enter your mind last night?   
DAINIUS ZUBRUS:   A little bit, same thing after‑‑ (inaudible).   We are in the hole right now but just take it one game at a time.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
DAINIUS ZUBRUS:   Pretty confident at winning games.   I don't think we are looking‑‑ (inaudible).   Already in the playoffs and behind‑‑ (inaudible) don't want to get ahead of ourselves.   Put all of our efforts to win one game.   
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   I think throughout this finals, we have played well, shown that we can play with them.   So we have confidence in that and just kind of look back object some of our other series in Florida, we were down Games 6 and 7, had to win that.   Been down in Philly the first game, Rangers first game.   
So you know, throughout the playoffs, we have not let the pressure get to us too much, so I think the confidence is definitely there.   
   
 Q.   You said last night you wanted‑‑ the first three games last night‑‑  
DAINIUS ZUBRUS:   We'll probably have a meeting tomorrow.   But I think that's that way without people telling us really.   The first few games‑‑ I think that's still going into overtime, if it happens, and the games are very close.   I think we worked really hard but we never‑‑ I don't think the bounces went our way.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).  
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   I don't think as a team we have thought about that.   We are pretty confident coming back here and playing at home, I think we have played well here all playoffs‑‑ besides Games 1 and 2, like you said, we didn't get some bounces.   We are comfortable playing at home and I think we've played some really good hockey.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).  
DAINIUS ZUBRUS:   I think he's a very experienced player, even though he played‑‑ his experience, he knows the sport and that way‑‑ we can feed off each other, whether it's a forecheck or backcheck.   A lot of times I might end up on the left side where he plays right now, and just sort of fill in for each other without any panic.   So he was good.   I thought he played really good.   I thought he never missed a beat when he got in the lineup.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   Well, it's hard not to get frustrated, down 0‑3, that's just human nature.   But we have done a pretty good job of keeping an even keel all the playoffs, sticking with our system, our structure.   I think that's what's made us successful.   We just knew that if we stuck with it, you know, at some time, we would get our chance and hopefully some momentum would shift our way.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT