NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
May 29, 2012
Travis Zajac
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Travis Zajac. 
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   Having surgery, I knew I'd be missing training camp the early part of the season.   Coming back, it didn't work out.   Kind of had a little bit of a setback.   That was another rollercoaster ride there. 
After that it was just talking with the doctors and coming up with a plan.   We said we'll see where it goes, not push anything, make sure we get it right this time. 
Kind of was shooting to come back before the end of the playoffs, trying to get myself into shape, be able to give myself a chance to play in the playoffs. 

Q.   Players talk about not watching games from the press box.   Did you learn anything during that period?
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   The game looks a lot easier from up there.   That's for sure (laughter). 
No, you watch, you see things.   But as soon as you get on the ice, that all changes.   There's a lot less time when you get back in the games.   Just watching the team, watching the guys, I knew we definitely had a special group this year. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   For teams to be successful in playoffs, you have to have everybody contribute.   They've been the key to our success.   They're a line that can change momentum.   They get the puck in, they're a forechecking line.   They create things every time we are on the ice and you couldn't ask for anything more. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   I don't know.   I think they know the rule.   They're going out there.   They're protecting pucks.   They're trying to play physical.   They've been doing a great job of that all series for us, all playoffs. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   I think because we have some skilled forwards.   You know, we want to get the puck in their hands as much as possible.   I think for us being on the forecheck is the key.   Our D have been doing a great job of keeping pucks alive for us, getting the pucks up as quick as possible in transition. 
So for us, it's made our job easy.   We've had more time in the offensive zone, been able to create a little bit more. 

Q.   How long did it take to adjust to that?
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   I wasn't here all season.   But watching the guys, you know, they were great.   I think as the season went on, they started to build their confidence and play better.   By the end of the season, we went on a six‑game winning streak in the playoffs, which is huge at that time of year. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   Yeah, obviously don't know much about them besides watching video the last few days here.   They look like they got some skill up front, they got big forwards.   They got D men that can jump in and play.   They have Doughty who is a skilled D man who can make plays.   They have a great goalie back there who has played well for them in the playoffs.   It's going to be a difficult test for us. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   This is definitely not normal.   Around here, for sure. 
You know, you just try and enjoy it, take it all in.   In the back of your mind, you know what is important, and that's getting ready for Game1. 

Q.   Has it hit you at this point?
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   It's pretty wild.   Obviously a dream come true.   Growing up you want to play in the Stanley Cup finals, have that chance.   Sometimes you got to pinch yourself. 
But for us, you know, we got some work left to do and we want to be successful. 

Q.   You see a team that has done so well, especially on the road, how challenging are they?
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   They're a great team.   Obviously for them to be here, they deserve it.   They've beat a lot of good teams along the way. 
So for us it's going to be important to get a good start, make sure maybe we can surprise them. 

Q.   How much has Kovy changed as a player since he came in till now?
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   He's always been successful wherever he's played.   Coming in, he wanted to work on different parts of his game, you know what, all ends of the rink.   He's a responsible player.   He back checks hard.   He's great in the D zone.   He recognizes when he has to chip pucks in and when he can make a play.   He's still going to go out there and make a great play and be a dynamic player. 
Right now he's responsible at both ends of the ice.   He's basically a complete player for us. 

Q.   Do you get a sense what this means for him?
TRAVIS ZAJAC:   Yeah, I mean, for us he's been a huge part of why we've been successful.   I know it means a lot to him.   He wants to compete hard.   He wants to win.   We knew that.   When we first got him, we saw that, the type of teammate he was, the type of leader he was.   It's just peaking at the right time and putting everything together.   Right now we have that chance. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT