NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BRUINS v PENGUINS
May 31, 2013
Matt Bartkowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MATT BARTKOWSKI:     We had that week off or so, so I don't know, I personally don't like the time off and always want to play, so I'm sure the other guys feel the same.   So we're excited to get going. 

Q.   Any pressurethis week? 
    MATT BARTKOWSKI:   Not too bad.   Kind of handled all that earlier in the week and told him when I could see him and stuff like that, so it's not too bad.

Q.   Did the trip down kind of make it sink in that you are about to get started here?   Seems like it's been a football week for you guys. 
    MATT BARTKOWSKI:   Yeah, we focused in practice all week.   I mean, we knew the time line.   But getting here now, it's like you said, I mean, we are getting down to the wire, so start to really focus on the game.

Q.   How excited are you about this opportunity?
    MATT BARTKOWSKI:   Oh, it will be awesome.   You can't beat playing in your hometown in the playoffs.

Q.   Does it make it more special or is it just another game?   How are you approaching it? 
    MATT BARTKOWSKI:   Yeah, it makes it more special in the sense that friends and family can be here, but not really getting too worked up over it in that sense.   Just going to treat it as another playoff game. 

Q.   Have you thought about‑‑ Coach has some decisions to make.   Have you thought about it at all, the lineup, as the week's progressed? 
    MATT BARTKOWSKI:   Not really.   I mean, it's out of my hands as far as those decisions.   I can just‑‑ all I can do is play and just put my best foot forward.

Q.   As a guy who has played with him for a while, what do you make of this sort of Krug mania?   The Penguins are talking about how they don't know what to do about Krug. 
    MATT BARTKOWSKI:   I don't know, he's got the hot stick right now.   He's playing strong.   He's playing hard.   You know, a lot of people didn't expect that he would be as solid as he is.   I knew he would be.   He's that type of player.   He's pretty hard‑nosed, especially for a small guy, he's really solid. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT