MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP IN COLOGNE
September 12, 2008
Jean-Francois Lucquin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Another day in paradise. Another good day, isn't it?   
 JEAN-FRANCOIS LUCQUIN: Yeah, it was a very good day and I'm very happy with my game, and just played with Robert and the atmosphere was so fun. It was cool. I was speaking with Robert all the time about The Ryder Cup and everything, it was pretty cool. You know, not too nervous, just try to hit shot after shot like every day.   
 But to be honest, I'm a little bit tired tonight. Since last week, it's very hard for me. It's new, but you know, I'm going to rest tonight and I'm going to give it the max, for sure.  
  
  Q. How difficult is it to keep the adrenaline going day off day?  
 JEAN-FRANCOIS LUCQUIN: Yeah, it's very difficult because you don't want to watch the leaderboard. You don't want to watch TV all the time. You know, I know how my family is in front of the TV, but I have to be professional and I have to be focused on the game. That is very hard sometimes, you know, just to stay focused on the shot. But you know, I'm going to try to do the same. I'm not going to change anything, and we'll see at the end.   
  
  Q. How much difference does it make to have a TV crew running around you, as opposed to when you're not and you're at the back of the field?  
 JEAN-FRANCOIS LUCQUIN: Yeah, I'm happy, because my mum can see me on the screen. It's great, it's a good feeling.   
  
  Q. I got the impression you enjoyed the camaraderie with the crowd.   
 JEAN-FRANCOIS LUCQUIN: Yeah, for me this week since last week, it's almost like a dream, so, you know, I want to take it all in and I want to have a good time on the course. I have nothing to lose, nothing to prove to anybody, so I'm going to try to do my best. I'm second right now, and it's not finished yet, with 36 holes to go, anything can happen, so we will see.  
  
  Q. Without giving away too many secrets, or you can if you like, what did Robert Karlsson say about Ryder Cup?  
 JEAN-FRANCOIS LUCQUIN: I can't tell you -- (laughter). No, just how did you feel and told me he was playing good, and he is playing good. Just asked a few questions, when are you going to go there. No, nothing secret, just questions about his golf. He's a very good guy. It's an honour to play with him, he's a great player, top 20 in the world, so it's a good example to take.   
  
  Q. And you can ask some more questions tomorrow.   
 JEAN-FRANCOIS LUCQUIN: Yeah, yeah, tomorrow I'm going to have maybe a question about -- well, I don't know, we will see.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT