BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2010
Kevin Borseth
Courtney Boylan
Jenny Ryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We're joined by the University of Michigan. Coach, please begin by making an opening statement. We'll take questions from the student athletes. 
 COACH BORSETH: We're excited to be moving on to the Big Ten tournament. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.

 Q. Jenny, can you talk about the game today and your role especially starting off so well?
 JENNY RYAN: I think that, you know, the game was -- I mean, it was a tale of two halves, but it was the first time all season that we've actually put a good half and went into the locker room with a significant lead. We're used to balling from behind. In the beginning I happened to be in the right place at the right time. I trusted that everyone else started hitting their shots eventually. It was a complete team effort. 
 You knew Northwestern wasn't going to roll over and die on us. They came back, had their run. We went through a lot. Were able to stick it out and pull it out in the end. 

 Q. Courtney, because of what happened the regular season you knew it wasn't the same old Northwestern. How much, if at all, do you think about being swept by them as a motivator for this game? 
 COURTNEY BOYLAN: I think that was a big motivator for us. Not just Northwestern, but being swept by anybody in the Big Ten during the regular season is a big motivating factor. And they -- definitely at the start of the season I want to say that they were towards the top of the Big Ten. You knew they were definitely a good -- they're obviously a good team contender. We wanted to come out and definitely prove ourselves against them and not let them sweep us the three games this year. 

 Q. Jenny, how much did the early offensive rebounds help you guys get going building momentum? 
 JENNY RYAN: Anytime you get offensive rebound it gives you both an extra possession and takes away a little bit of the other team's momentum and we get extra shots that maybe we wouldn't have been able to get and just was part of the big first half run that we had.

 Q. Talking about being swept, now you have to play Michigan State. What's your recollection of those two games?
 COURTNEY BOYLAN: You know, I don't know, to be honest. Right now we're happy to be playing them moving on. We have another shot at them. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach.

 Q. Can you talk about the great start in the first half and then what happened in the second half?
 COACH BORSETH: You know, we haven't really put together a first half in a long time, and today we did obviously. I thought that really helped us. We had three straight turnovers. I think that really set off that bad run in the second half. You know what, it just gets to you. I think it gets to anybody, get too big of a lead the other team makes some shots and all of a sudden the collar starts to tighten. 
 I don't think they were any different than any other team would handle it. Courtney's charge stopped that bleeding and we got back into it. It was a long stretch, agonizing for anybody. At least it was for me.

 Q. Were you pleased with the balance on your offense tonight? I think it was five players in double figures just being able to spread it around couldn't focus --
 COACH BORSETH: That's the goal. We've got a no -- we've got an offense that relies on all five people being able to score. They kept telling me they're face guarding Carmen, they're face guarding Carmen. Well, let them face guard Carmen. There's four other guards that have to be able to produce. They did. Jenny had a couple of put-backs, KP had a couple, Roni had a couple, Courtney had a couple. 
 So balance is key. We don't have any All-Conference players. We've got to rely on the teamwork to do that. I thought the kids did a good job tonight.

 Q. Kevin, looked like Amy Jaeschke was having a lot of trouble with the physical play, with Courtney Phillips' physical play. Did you do anything different this time against her?
 COACH BORSETH: Against Amy Jaeschke? She's a good player. She's so efficient down around that basket and they use her the way anybody would want to use her. They give her the ball quite a bit. 
 We tried not to help as much this time around. I know last time we helped quite a bit off of her. They pitched it out, hit a bunch of 3s. We tried to let KP do more so, handle herself this time. 
 And I think both those big kids guarding each other get frustrated, because they have big bodies leading on them all game long. I didn't really look at Jaeschke's stats, 6 for 14. Obviously we did a pretty good job on her. She's still at 17.

 Q. Can you comment on Jenny's play? I think she had a hand in your first 15 points?
 COACH BORSETH: Yeah, you know what, she had two down the stretch in that stretch where we weren't making baskets. She had two wide-open shots that she missed. Down the road Jenny's going to make those shots. We had some shots in that stretch, the three turnovers when we didn't score, you asked me that question, those were killers. We came back, had two open shots. Jenny had two of them. 
 She's one of those kids that really doesn't have any fear at all. I think you watched her play in the state tournament game when she was a junior and kid comes out on fire and she plays with a lot of confidence, and obviously we feed off of that. She played 40 minutes. I don't think we even took her out of the game.

 Q. Free throws down the stretch at Northwestern killed you guys. Today obviously was a completely different story. Talk about that?
 COACH BORSETH: Courtney was 7 for 7. That had a lot to do with it. I think we did a lot of substituting to favor that because we knew they were going to follow us. We only had four fouls at one stretch. Joe was telling them to foul. And I figured, oh, boy, here we go. If we're not careful, they'll knock it out of our hands. 
 We got Courtney in at the right time, of her and Day switching. Although Day shoots good free throws, Courtney does a good job at it. But free throws are key, especially when you've got leads in the game. If you make them, you can maintain your lead. If you don't, you let the other team back in. 
 But today we made them. 

 Q. Kevin, you've got Michigan State, how do you approach that and what do you remember about the two games against them?
 COACH BORSETH: How can you forget. They're really good. They're one of those teams that plays really well at the end of the year, and I think they demonstrated that the last two years. So they're probably playing their best basketball right now and they're certainly a handful for anybody. And they're really a handful for us. But right now we just want to get through that Northwestern game and we're glad to be able to move on. 
 So have to go back, watch a little videotape, but we're going to have to play really well.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT