PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE VS CLEMSON
December 28, 2016
Jay Guillermo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's the mentality of the Clemson offense.  Are you unstoppable?
JAY GUILLERMO: Well, I mean, I think first and foremost, our mentality is we want to run the football.  And no one's unstoppable.  So we're not going to come in and say no one can stop us; we're unstoppable.  No, no one's unstoppable.
But if I feel like if we come in, we're able to run the football and be able to have those two dimensions -- because obviously the wide receivers we got and the quarterback we got, we can throw the football.
But if we can add that extra piece of being able to run and really give that balance, I feel like we're a pretty hard football team to stop.
Q. You're a throwing football -- is the running complementary given the fact that you go to six receivers, 29, 30 catches apiece?
JAY GUILLERMO: And it all comes down to what people want to give us, too.  If people want to stop the run, like a lot of people have this year, then obviously we're going to throw the football.
We're not going to bang our held up against the wall and expect a different result.  So it just depends on how teams play us.  And that's our offensive coaches and GAs and player development guys and just our staff does such an awesome job at game planning every week, week in, week out.  And being able to adjust whatever we need to do to be successful.  And I think that's one thing that has made us so consistent these past few years.
Q. You are one of the vocal leaders on this team.  When you saw what Jadar said yesterday, did you go up to him and say come on --
JAY GUILLERMO: I didn't even know what he said until I was over in the other room when they asked me about it.  That's Jadar for you.  He likes to talk a little bit.  But, yeah, you always have to respect your opponent.
I mean, you can't go back and take back what he said.
Q. Does that matter.  Would you be motivated if they said Clemson's center, he's not a very good --
JAY GUILLERMO: Yeah.  No, it matters.  Don't get me wrong.  It definitely matters.  But once again you can't go back and take what you said so you've got to roll with it.
But that's Jadar, once again.  Love him to death, but I mean but, like I was saying, you gotta respect your opponent.  You've always got to respect your opponent especially whenever you get up here where the air's thin, top of the mountain, and every guy you play at every position at this point is the best guy you've played.
So I mean so coming for me and I know from the rest of the team, we have nothing but respect for Ohio State.
Q. Speaking of the best guys you played, their front seven, can you talk about them and the challenge you guys have?
JAY GUILLERMO: Yeah, they're really, really good up front.  Guys that are really explosive off the ball.  It just always seems like they're just getting upfield and breaking through that line of scrimmage and getting in the backfield so fast, just really being able to cut that off.  But they're blue-collar kind of guys, play until the echo of the whistle, just guys that don't give up.
They're always going, running after the ball, chasing the ball.  And I mean they use their tools, they utilize their tools very well.  They're not the biggest guys in the world but they play like they are.
I mean, they've got one of the best run defenses in the country.  For one thing that should tell you something that they do what they do very well and they play very well.  I mean, they're just all around just fantastic football players.
And once again, like I was saying, whenever you get up to the top of the mountain that's how it is.  Because you don't get to this point in college football without having a really good front seven, without having a really good offensive line, without having a good back end or without having good linebackers.
So they're a really good challenge.  And just excited to be able to play a defensive line at this caliber at such a big spotlight.  It's always really fun.  If you can't get your juices flowing for this one then something is wrong with you.
Q. The way they use their linebackers seems they're very disruptive and all over the place.  Whether they disguise things and drop back in coverage, sometimes they're (indiscernible).  Can you talk about that challenge and talk about where those guys are at?
JAY GUILLERMO: Once again, the thing is that our coaches do a really good job of game planning and giving us a good plan to win.  We just have to go execute.
I think that will be pretty important just being able to go and execute and really just doing what we can control.  Controlling what we can control and just playing clean football, not having any turnovers.
And I think that will kind of go well with our plan to win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT