U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2016
Dylan Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Three birdies in the first four holes.  What got you off to that hot start?
DYLAN KIM: I put it really close the first few holes, so I was hitting my irons really, really well, and I'm putting well from that mid-range area, from 10 to 15 feet, so it was really nice to get some birdies in early.
Q. When you say close, how close for the first three?
DYLAN KIM: They were about, I'd say, right about 10, 15 feet, right in that area.
Q. The last time I talked to you, you had just had surgery and you were watching TV, just kind of chilling.  How hard was it to be out of the game for so long?
DYLAN KIM: It was hard.  I was really bored.  Rehab, it did keep me busy once I could walk again, but I'd say the hardest period was the first six weeks after surgery because I couldn't walk and I couldn't put any weight on that leg, so that was tough because it was hard -- just getting in and out of bed was hard, but I'm glad to be here.
Q. When did you actually swing a golf club again for the first time, or maybe you putted first?
DYLAN KIM: I first started putting in January because I could walk obviously right around then.  I still didn't like to bend over and pick up the ball out of the hall.
Q. So did you have a retriever for that?
DYLAN KIM: I didn't.  I did the hard work myself, and I did it myself.  But I first swung a golf club in April, middle of April.
Q. Was it ugly?  Did it come back naturally?
DYLAN KIM: You know, I was chipping up until then, so it wasn't that ugly.  I wanted all my teammates and friends to come out to watch me take the first swing because I thought it would be funny in case I like chunked it or something.  But it wasn't like that spectacular.
Q. So you had an audience, that's fun.
DYLAN KIM: Yeah.
Q. Did anyone take a photograph?
DYLAN KIM: No, no.  Sadly no.  But I was lucky that it came back pretty well.
Q. When did you actually play 18 holes for the first time?
DYLAN KIM: I feel like I played 18 holes for the first time maybe beginning the summer, so like June or July, but this is -- I've actually only walked 18 holes and played.  This might be like my fifth or sixth time.
Q. So you were in a cart?
DYLAN KIM: Yeah, I was in a cart the whole summer.  The qualifier for this was only the second 18 holes that I walked, and so this one -- like we were interested to see if I could make it through all the hills.
Q. Yeah, it's pretty hilly out here.
DYLAN KIM: Yeah.
Q. Do you feel any pain or anything?
DYLAN KIM: I do sometimes, so I have to take Motrin.  Yeah, I'm definitely taking Motrin, and I'm trying not to hit too many balls on the range.
Q. How important is it to get done -- with all these matches this week, how important is it to get done so early today?
DYLAN KIM: I mean, it's a big relief because you get to rest more, especially for me with my hip because I don't want to fatigue it too much.  It's so nice to get done early and just be able to practice and get off the course because it's a long week.  It's going to be a really long week, and there's a lot of golf, so it's nice to get some rest.
Q. Were you nervous at all coming back?
DYLAN KIM: No, I wasn't.  Well, I guess in tournaments I wasn't, but I was a little bit nervous to hit the first shot and stuff because I wasn't sure if I would come back and maybe my swing would be different or I couldn't maybe hit it as far.  And when I first came back like for the first couple weeks, I wasn't hitting it as far and that worried me a little bit.  But I went through all my rehab, and I'm trying to work out a lot and get it all back.
Q. So is it back now?
DYLAN KIM: Uh-huh, it is, yeah.
Q. Do you feel like you can get -- I know you were having problems getting into the right positions before the surgery.  Do you feel like now you can get where you need to go?
DYLAN KIM: Absolutely, yeah.  I even went and saw my coach probably June, so just to get everything tuned up after surgery, and she said it actually looked better, so that was nice to hear.
Q. Who's your coach again?
DYLAN KIM: Annie Mallory.  She's out of Florida.
Q. What club?
DYLAN KIM: Well, there's a change of employment right now, so I'm not entirely sure.  Orlando area.  That's the most that I personally know.  I don't really know right now.
Q. How long has she been your instructor?
DYLAN KIM: Since I was about 15, so it's really nice to have her for a while.
Q. Can you spell it for me?
DYLAN KIM: A-n-n-i-e M-a-l-l-o-r-y.
Q. So you're going back to Baylor for sure?
DYLAN KIM: I am.  I'm returning.  It's my junior year.  Well, red shirt sophomore, I guess.
Q. So you have three more years?
DYLAN KIM: I have three more years, yeah.
Q. How many times have you played in this championship?
DYLAN KIM: This is my third time.
Q. What's the furthest that you've made it?
DYLAN KIM: I made it to the round of 16, and that was two years ago, so 2014.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT