NCAA WOMEN'S GOLF CHAMPIONSHIPS
May 27, 2015
Hayley Davis
Jay Goble
Dylan Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  RICK NIXON:   We are joined by Baylor student‑athletes Hayley Davis and Dylan Kim and Coach Jay Goble.   Jay, go ahead.   
JAY GOBLE:   I just want to say that I'm extremely proud of everything that my team has done this year.   You know, obviously with the way the day ended is not the plan, and that's not what we planned for, but I'm not disappointed in the way that they fought all year long and the way that they fought this week.   Again, to come out here and make a statement the way they did, you know, to beat the defending national champions yesterday in a matchplay event, that was unbelievable.   To come out today and fight for every single shot that they fought for and to show poise throughout the whole day, I couldn't be more proud.   To tell you the truth, my heart is completely full right now for them, and I just want to make that known first.   
   
 Q.   What's your assessment now of the format, having been through a tough match play?   
JAY GOBLE:   No, it's great.   I was the first one to be hesitant about it originally.   I didn't originally believe that it was a format that was broken, but you know, again, going through the last two days, it's really exciting.   It's really fun.   It's an emotional roller coaster out there, but again, I think that to go out there and to fight it out the way you have to do in match play, it shows a lot of guts.   It shows a lot of‑‑ I mean, this was a stamina race out here this week, too.   I think that our strength and conditioning coach came out here with us and kept us all hydrated and ready to go this week and had a really good plan for us, as well.   
You know, we've been here eight days now, so it is a true fight for the national championship, and I think it was great.   
   
 Q.   Hayley, how does this Baylor golf program look and feel differently than it did when you first got to school four years ago?   
HAYLEY DAVIS:   Yeah, well, my freshman year we had three seniors on the team so it kind of went different just straight away from my freshman year to my sophomore year.   We ended up with like three seniors on the team, and then my sophomore year we went to freshmen and sophomores.   We finally got new players in, and just from watching every player that's come through Baylor since I've been there, I'm the remaining senior left, but the people that I've come up with all my four years has just been amazing, like everyone, every day, just worked so hard.   Since my freshman year when I came in at the same time as Jay, just kind of changed the goals of the program, like we need to be competing for a national championship.   That's why I came to Baylor because that's what I wanted for the program.   
I mean, where the program was before I came, I knew it wasn't like the best program, but it had potential, and that's why I came to Baylor because I knew it really could be like this.   So yeah, I'm just really excited how it's going for them, and I think it's only going to get better, too.   
   
 Q.   Hayley, can you talk about the shot at 16?   What were you trying to do there?   Obviously you put it right up there by the hole.   
HAYLEY DAVIS:   I was actually quite ‑‑ I hit my driver and my putts really good today and I struggled with my irons, and I said to Jay, if I want to be anywhere right now, it's probably somewhere where I don't have to worry about my swing.   I don't think about my swing much on the course, but I didn't hit my irons the best today.   That was the weakest part of my game definitely today.   So I said to Jay, you know what, this is the shot I kind of want ‑‑ it's a good yardage, it was like 134 into the wind so I could just hit my 8 iron.   That was the thing, that I had a club and it was a good yardage so I could just hit it.   I didn't have to worry about hitting it soft or grip down on it.   It was tough because the thing was my feet were sinking a little bit, so I was a little bit worried about that, but then, yeah, just the way it went, it was perfect.   Just the way the yardage came out, then it stayed there, hitting off the tee, I thought it was going to be fine, maybe it's not in the water, but I never knew walking up there that it was going to be playable.   That was the thing, when I got up there, just to see that it was playable, I was excited, like I've been given a chance, like I'm going to make the most of it, and it paid off.   
   
 Q.   What was the point in the match when you realized everything is really come down to‑‑ did the emotions change at all at that point?   
HAYLEY DAVIS:   No, not really because I knew that it was going to be tough towards the end.   Mariah is a great player.   I've never played with her before but obviously I know she's a great player, and the whole round I kind of knew that every shot counts.   All these matches, after yesterday's round, you wouldn't even think it would come down to that much, but it does.   I kind of knew like every shot out there.   I think I was 3‑up through 8 or something and I was the same yesterday with Sabrina I was 3‑down, and I knew myself that I had a chance to come back.   So obviously from being in that position yesterday, I knew Mariah, she's going to be like the same thing trying to get it back.   I knew I had to keep going, there's no stopping.   
I wouldn't say my emotions changed out there at all because the main thing I faced was staying in the present, just taking the shot in front of me because that's all I could do.   I kind of knew the team situation, the scoreboards are out there, but it didn't affect me, it doesn't affect my golf, seeing how the team is doing, I am just going to play this shot in front of me, and I think I stuck with that really good the whole way around.   
   
 Q.   If you could have any shot back today, which one would you take?   
HAYLEY DAVIS:   Well, it would have to be the second shot into the playoff hole.   I had a good yardage.   I told my assistant coach I had a good yardage, I could hit a good 9‑iron, that was the club, and it just didn't come off the way I wanted it to.   I struggled with that all day.   I felt comfortable because of the shot on 16 I was in the middle of the of the fairway, now like I can hit this shot.   That was actually the same yardage as that one.   
I would say the shot on the playoff hole.  
   
 Q.   How far was it?   
HAYLEY DAVIS:   134.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the last two days of this tournament and all the emotions that you felt right down to the end, the awards ceremony?   Just put into words what the last few days have felt like for you out here.   
HAYLEY DAVIS:   It's been crazy.   Just from yesterday, it was hard, because I'm not really an emotional person, you ask my teammates, not really at all.   (Inaudible) Yesterday, I watched from the 11th hole, so that was five holes, and that was probably about an hour, and for these five holes it was a complete high knowing that from any minute it could go to a complete low.   I think the craziest just seeing Lauren compete, and the emotions then were high and when we won we talked to our strength coach, and he said you could have two hours of like celebrating this win because it was big for us, and he's like, then we need to focus.   
I think as a team we did that pretty good.   We were super happy for a while.   Lauren just won 24‑4 and then when we got back, we kind of like went, we need focus on tomorrow now.   It's a new day, Stanford is a great team, and we knew it was going to be a tough day, so it was just getting back to like focusing on today and staying calm again and I think we all same as we did yesterday morning.   So yeah, just‑‑  
   
 Q.   What were you thinking during the awards ceremony?   
HAYLEY DAVIS:   That I would love to be back with my‑‑ my putt on the 10th hole.   You know what, it sunk in.   We just came second in the national championship.   If you had asked me that, we had this goal‑‑ this whole semester when Dylan came in, it just changed the team.   Freshman year runner‑up national championship I would say, well, I hope so, but I don't know about that one.   So no, I think it's‑‑ after a little bit when I forget‑‑ not forget but kind of get it together, it's unbelievable what we've done this semester, just every team member, even the ones that‑‑ I'm so happy for this team and proud of everyone, coaches, players.   We've done unbelievable.   
   
 Q.   Hayley, what was your thought process from the playoff hole to (inaudible)?  
HAYLEY DAVIS:   Well, I said to my coach, I think I was in the exact position this morning when I already played it, so it was like I putted it earlier and I actually hit it I think the same distance but past the hole, and the grass was growing the other way so it was into the green so I was like I don't really want to be chipping this one.   I already putted it earlier so I knew the line.   I was just had to get the pace. (Inaudible) I gave myself a chance there.  
   
 Q.   Dylan, can you just talk about this experience, your freshman year, I know you've been excited just to be here, but what was it like today and obviously winning your match, as well?   
DYLAN KIM:   It's been just an amazing experience.   Coming into college, I wasn't sure what to expect, especially coming in mid‑year, and it's everything that I could ask for and more.   It's been just amazing having such great teammates because I know that I have the best teammates, the best coaches in the nation, and I don't say that in exaggeration.   I know that that's the case.   
It's been a great experience.   I've loved having a semester with Hayley, and I'm so excited for the years to come, especially with my‑‑ a junior will be a senior next year, I get to play for her and to have my other fellow freshmen on the team.   I'm really excited for what's to come, and it's been a really exhilarating experience to have.   
   
 Q.   You're obviously close with her.   Talk about that.   
DYLAN KIM:   You know, it hurts, but you‑‑ we're a team full of character.   I know that for sure.   It just wasn't meant to be.   I know she fought her heart out and we love her.   She's the leader of the team, and I think we'll always play for Hayley.   I'm so proud of her.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned outside that Hayley almost single‑handedly elevated this program to this position.   Can you describe in what way she's done that?   
JAY GOBLE:   Well, there has never been a player like Hayley Davis at Baylor.   There's never been consistently for four straight years as great of a player as Hayley is and will continue to be.   She really has‑‑ again, I think consistency is the big key to what she has done to change the program.   You know, she is our leader on the golf course, and she's our leader off the golf course.   It's been amazing to have her on the team the last four years.   I feel extremely lucky and blessed that I came into a team that had Hayley Davis already committed to come play for Baylor.   
But again, you know, she really has helped put us on the map.   She has helped us in recruiting.   She has helped us in the fact that, again, people see that they can come to Baylor and we have a great golf team and they can be successful here.   I mean, there's not much else to say.   It's been fantastic to be here on this journey with her the last four years, and she's going to be around next year to hang out with us a little bit longer to get her degree at Baylor.   I don't want her to ever leave, so I might try to find a way to keep her for a couple more years if I could.   Yeah, she really has meant everything to our program and helped us get here today.   She has helped get us here today for sure.   
   
 Q.   I was hoping you could talk about Hayley's putt on 16 from your perspective, and talk about the show these women put on the last few days for a national audience and what that does for women's college golf.   
JAY GOBLE:   That shot on 16, under the conditions, might have been the best shot I've ever seen.   It really was.   I can't say that I walked up to her and felt‑‑ had warm and fuzzy feelings that she was going to hit it up there four or five feet away, but if anybody can do it, Hayley Davis can do it.   
You know, the thing that makes her such a great golfer is the fact that she believes in herself so much that any shot is possible.   It has gotten her very far, and it's going to continue to get her very far, the self‑belief in her golf game.   
I mean, I tried to watch the playoff from Lauren Whyte last night against Duke, and I watched it until 12:40 last night.   I couldn't get enough of it.   Obviously, like I have an emotional attachment to this crew, but yeah, I think it‑‑ I would guess that it came off really well.   It was a hell of a match today and yesterday, and you know, I kept‑‑ again, I can't think of‑‑ the format really has‑‑ in my mind it's changed my thoughts a lot.   I can imagine that on TV it looked really good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT