ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 10, 1997
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What do you think of the court?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think the court is, for sure, much slower than all the other years.  It's hard court.  I think you're going to see more tennis.
  

Q.  What about the balls, how are they playing?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  The balls, I don't like it very much because they are very, very big, very heavy.  It's difficult to make something with them, except if you are power like the big servers.
  

Q.  Getting into the event is a big honor.  How concentrated were you this year?  I mean, you began the year at 84.

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Something like this.
  

Q.  And so if you hadn't gotten in, would that have upset you after all you accomplished this year?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, how the things went the last weeks, yes, because I was the Top 5 all the year except the last two tournaments, I went to No. 7.  Then I would be very disappointed if I didn't make it at the end.  But when I started the year, for sure if they told me I would be finished like Top 50 or something, I would be  very pleased because I was not in a good moment.
  

Q.  With Becker quitting, as a European, what does that mean to European tennis?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  For me nothing.  The only thing, maybe the court's going to be slower (laughter).
  

Q.  With all that professional players can do on the tour, what is the highlight for you playing professional tennis?  What do you like best about being a tennis professional?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  To play in the French Open, for me.
  

Q.  What's the worst part of playing professional tennis, other than traveling?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think there's one thing worse than traveling:  lose.
  

Q.  (Inaudible)

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I don't know.  If we are the first eight, I don't think one is better than the other, no? Maybe 1 is better than 2 and 3.  All the players are here because they're great players.  Different type of game, doesn't mean one is more difficult than the other.  For sure, if the good servers, they are like serving 220 all the time, you have no chance to play at least. 
  

Q.  Who do you think is the favorite in your group?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I don't know.  I think maybe the one who has been playing much better this year is Bjorkman. He's playing well.  Probably if he keeps his level like this, maybe he will be the one who is favorite here.
  

Q.  He was strong in the last tournaments.

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Yes.
  

Q.  What do you think about your group?  Is it a good group for you, or would you like to be in the other group because the players are better for you?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think if you play in the Masters, the best eight play in the world, you cannot expect a good group.  I think I answer your question.  It's never going to be a good group.
  

Q.  How do you see your chance to win the ATP Championship?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, first of all, I think when you playing one tournament like this, you can't think about winning; you have to think about match by match.  If you pass the matches, then you think the next step.
  

Q.  What do you think about the decision that the ATP made the court a little bit slower?  Is it for you a little bit better as a specialist for clay?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, for sure it's not for a  specialist for clay, because it's still hard court.  If you serve 222 kilometers, even if sand, you still cannot see it.
  

Q.  Your first match, what do you think about that?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think it doesn't matter who you start, it's going to be very difficult for you, no? He's been winning too much matches.  Very concentrate on his tournaments.
  

Q.  Do you think you can win the whole tournament?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I don't know.  I think it's better to start about my first match; not to win the tournament.
  

Q.  We're doing this piece about Boris Becker who is turning 30 in two weeks.  Best and worst memories with Boris, whatever you want to say.  You're free to say anything.

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Boris, congratulations on your 30 years.  I think you look unbelievable.  You don't look like 30.  You look like 22 or 21, so keep in shape.
  

Q.  Was it difficult for you to stay at home and wait for the other results?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  For sure it's more difficult than when you're playing, because you can't do something if you're waiting.  Kafelnikov have to win the tournament. Rios have to play specific players.  But things were going the best way for the other two.  At the end, it was very  different.
  

Q.  How do you feel this week?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I think I'm feeling okay.  I'm very happy because I had a chance to play now with the best players in the world.
  

Q.  Your group is also tough.  It's not very easy.  I want to know what you think about Michael Chang?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Michael Chang I think is one of the biggest fighters on the tour.  I think it's very difficult to beat him.
  

Q.  Yevgeny Kafelnikov, won the French Open like you.

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I think Yevgeny also can play on the surface.  Maybe indoor courts is where he plays maybe his best.  It will be very difficult opponent.
  

Q.  And Jonas Bjorkman is not an easy opponent.  He won Stockholm.

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I think he's in the top form.  I think he's the player who is playing his best tennis at this moment.  I think he's the favorite for the moment in this group.
  

Q.  Are you satisfied to play on this surface?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I'm satisfied to play in Hannover, doesn't matter on which surface.
  

Q.  How can you define your personality on the court and outside the court? 

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Very difficult.  I cannot do it. I don't understand myself, so I cannot do it.
  

Q.  Your ambitions for the future?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I think now I'm going to start the year with another approach, with another mentality.  I think I'm going to work hard, much positive, much easier for me the next year because I'm not injured, and I'm coming from No. 8, not from 83 like I start the year.  I think it will be easier for me.
  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT