US OPEN
September 2, 1997
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Sergi, do you think that with Sampras' loss last night, that everyone still in the
tournament has a different attitude; that everyone thinks they can win this tournament
now?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I don't know. I think I have the same idea before Sampras because
I go match by match and I'm going to go as far as possible. With Sampras, for sure there's
-- he was the favorite, is the best player, no? Now is everyone thinks that he's going to
win. But now without him, there's more chances for everybody.

Q. Who do you think can win this tournament now? Who do you think is the best
possibility?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I think my favorite is Agassi.

Q. Why do you say that? Because of the way he's playing? Because he's been there
before?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I think he's the one who won also Grand Slam, and that I think is
important. He's the only one I think is playing every time better and better. He's very
fresh mentally because he didn't play at all this year. He's raising his level as it used
to be. And also he's the one, I think, he's going play more relaxed in important moments.

Q. Sergi, why can't Rios win this tournament?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I didn't say that he cannot win.

Q. Why would you pick Agassi as a favorite over Rios?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I just said.

Q. Do you think Rios has a good shot at the final?

SERGI BRUGUERA: A good shot in the final?

Q. To reach the final?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I think he has pretty tough matches to win, no? I think he has to play
Pioline or Chang. If it's Chang, I think Chang can play against him. They play a little
bit the same way and maybe he doesn't like very much the game from Chang.

Q. Going on today's match, did you think Rios' game, was it mostly him? Was it you?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I think I was a little bit slower than the other days. I was not
moving very well today. I didn't serve very good. So I have to play all my service games
with a second serve almost. He was serving very good. He make a lot of free points. The
first set was close. Second set he played really well. Third set all the time was like
close to change, I was feeling going to change, going to change, going to change. I shake
hands at the end.

Q. What is best about Rios' game?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I think he receive the ball. I think he's very complete. He returns
very well. He serves well. He moves well. He's good competitor. I think he's very
complete.

Q. If Chang and Agassi meet, if they come together, how do you think that works out?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I think if Agassi's playing his tennis and good mentality, which I
think is going to happen, I think he have a much better game than Chang, much better.

Q. No chance for Rafter tonight?

SERGI BRUGUERA: If he's there, he has always chance. He was winning, I don't know, like
6-Love, 7-Love against Rafter. He play in quarterfinals and Rafter won. Always the same.
Don't matter how many times you beat the other guy. I think he's playing his best tennis,
and more than now he has good chance to win. I mean, if Rafter is playing his best tennis
and Agassi is not in his best shape, like he's beginning his shape, but still, he's like
No. 60 or something like that, because he didn't play very well.

Q. Sergi, don't you think you should be more aggressive during this match? Do you try
to be more aggressive during the match?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I think I should be a little bit more aggressive. But the problem is,
like I said, I was not moving very well, I was arriving always late to the ball. Then it's
difficult, you know, the have good position to attack the ball. You have very probably to
miss the ball, no, if you not in good shot. That's the reason I couldn't attack more,
because I was always arriving late.

Q. You tried more in the third set.

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah. In the third set, I think I started. The ball was coming slower;
I start to feel I was moving better; I have more time. Then I start to play much better. I
was the one who is attacking. But he was serving very big in important moments. He save a
lot of points. When I have almost breakpoints, I didn't make it.

Q. Why you didn't move well? Because of the weather or you were tired?

SERGI BRUGUERA: No, I don't know. I mean maybe I play a lot of tough matches here. My
body is not as used to it. Playing on clay is different. Muscles are more sore, I mean - I
don't know - maybe a little bit cold also. 

Q. Could it also be because he was taking the ball earlier and attacking, playing very
offensive tennis?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Could be. I don't know. Could be.

Q. Sergi, you said that Rios is a very complete player; that he has all the shots. So
what does he need to do to become a Grand Slam champion? Does he need to mature more? Does
he need to be mentally tougher?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I mean, I'm not studying Rios. I don't know. You should say. You
see more tennis than Rios and me.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT