US OPEN
August 27, 1997
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 SERGI BRUGUERA: It was not my fault the first two sets. I think he play unreal tennis.
He was the first set serving 120, second 100 all the time. He was making a lot of winners.
I mean, he was playing unbelievable. Then the third set, I think I play -- I start to
return a little bit better. Maybe he was a little bit tired or he drop his game a little
bit. Then when I was on top, I get confidence, maybe he didn't play like the first two
sets, otherwise he be in Top 5 for sure. 
 
Q. Coming back was surprising for you on hardcourts. Generally you're a claycourter
player, do well on claycourts. Hardcourts you were able to make a comeback. Are you
surprised a little bit?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: I don't mind to be claycourt specialist. I'm doing fine in Key
Biscayne, beating Chang and Sampras. 
 
Q. You were down two sets, you were able to come back. He's had to qualify for every
event. Did you know that? Did you know if you took him five sets, you'd come out on top?
He was tired. He said he was incredibly tired by the third set. He had lost all his
energy. Did you know that he's done all this qualifying throughout the summer, that if you
extended him, perhaps you could take advantage of that?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: The qualify, I don't think it's tougher than the main draws, no? For
sure, I play a thousand more matches than him. I don't think this one is the reason. 
 
Q. Well, he said that he was really tired.
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: That's okay, I mean. But I think to play, he was able to take the ball,
half volley every time from the baseline, he must to be in unbelievable shape to do it all
the time, and serve all the time over 120, 125, 127, every single first serve, and over
100 every second serve. I mean, it's difficult to keep this level all the time. If he will
keep this level all the time, he wouldn't be playing in the qualifiers, for sure. 
 
Q. You've had good success on hardcourts this year. What's the difference for you?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, the difference is, I think, I learn much more how to play on this
court. I improve especially my serve and my attacking game. And now I'm feeling much
better, much comfortable on the court than I used to play before. 
 
Q. Do you have any goals for this particular tournament? Do you see yourself going all
the way deep into the tournament?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, that's the thing everybody trying, no? But it's better to go
match by match. I mean, every match here is difficult, all the people are very focused to
do it very well here. The first round is very tough, like I see today. Each round is
really hard to play. 
 
Q. Looks like you've run into Muster few times here. You've run into Thomas Muster here
a few times.
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, two times. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT