GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 1997
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOE LYNCH: First question for Sergi Bruguera, who was forced to retire in the third set
with cramps in his left leg.

Q. When did you start feeling the cramps in your left leg?

SERGI BRUGUERA: 2-All in the third.

Q. Were you hoping that they'd just go away or did they just get worse as you went on?

SERGI BRUGUERA: No. I don't know suddenly I start to feel cramping everywhere, not just
in my leg but everywhere. Suddenly. It was strange, I never had cramps in a long time and
then -- I don't know why. I mean I was feeling very tired in the second set at the end,
but then after in the third set, I was good. I mean was not feeling hot or tired in legs
or whatever. I mean it was -- I don't know very stressful this week, because I had my
problem with my neck here, and when I wake up Wednesday. And then I had, you know, very
stressful day. I went and see the doctor from the Cincinnati Reds. He take care of me and
he crack, you know, everything, because I have a big problem in the -- very high: C2 and
C3, and help me out for to play, so I could play. Then Thursday again I went to see him
and he crack me again and everything, he put back in. And maybe this cause me a lot of
stress and a lot of tension, because, you know, I was very worry and wake up at 7:30 the
morning Wednesday, and I play in the night and all of the day like this with a lot of
tension. We make a lot of work, and maybe it was this because I was very sore. Maybe
that's why, I don't know.

Q. Did you have the neck problem before?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Long time ago, yeah. In the Hawaii I have to retire because it was the
same. The doctor from over there they told me it was here, up here C2, C3, and they moved
it and they have it put me in place.

Q. How do you feel Albert was playing and how do you feel he'll do tomorrow?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I think we play a good match. I think I was very confident to win the
match, because I was serving really well. I was holding my serve much more easy than him.
And at the beginning of second set I had so many chances. At breakpoint at 1-All, and I
had three breakpoints at 2-All. But I think I was serving really well. And I think he make
a lot of good serve, because he win a lot of service points. Because when he was playing I
was winning a lot of points. I think he was having a lot of trouble with his serve. And
then at 4-3, he played a good game, because he serve two good shots and both times in
deuce he play -- he made good return and then good passing shot. And then I got back deuce
again, and he place a really good forehand. Maybe in the breakpoints I should go for
something more.

Q. How will he do against Pete, what does he have to do against Pete, do you think?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I don't know. Because he needs more time, you know, when he's playing.
I think he's not going to do very well with the serve with Pete, because when the point is
on, he play very well. He's one of the greatest player. But for Pete's serve you have to
be very special returning, you know. If Kafelnikov go two and two today, it's because, you
know, he's playing great tennis, not only serve. And so I think -- always you have chance,
but I think that Pete is going to win.

Q. How much did your deal with the officials, and your talk about the delay and
everything, did that bother your game at all?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I lost the game you know. I was concentrate a lot, because I mean
I was not -- I think I was think was not try, because I mean I didn't lose time at all. I
mean I just went to the net, because -- and I was sad because it was net and he won that
and that point was important. Then I stop like three seconds, and then I went back, you
know, all the way back to pickup the balls, nonstop, and then I went to service straight.
I mean I didn't lose even one second. And then he put me the warning. You know, I'm not
going to go running to pick the balls. I mean I was very fast from the serve, because I
finish the point right at the net. And I went walking, take the push and go straight.
Didn't turn around or didn't lose time at all. I just went straight. So I don't know why
he put me the warning. That's what he was saying, I walk too slow. To teach me how to
work, to play tennis.

Q. Did that bother you afterwards?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I lost the game because I was going to -- I made one easy
mistake, and then I made one double fault. That's for sure bother me, but I came back. I
recover afterwards. I came back. And the problem was another thing.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT