GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 1997
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







SERGI BRUGUERA: I think he start to play very well. I think I was lucky to serve well
today because he was playing very well and I save a lot of breakpoints, especially at
5-All. Then tiebreak was close. I think I start to play much better then. And then second
set I think he was maybe a little bit more tired to play the way he was playing and then I
was controlling the match easy.

Q. Sergi, we were asking before Alberto and Alex about playing friends and playing
countrymen, you guys travel together and all that. How is it for you when you play someone
you know really well, like you are going to play Alberto next?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I mean, it is better to play some other player, that is for sure.
Sometimes you practice a lot with him; always when you are practicing you are making
jokes. Then when suddenly you are playing with him, you cannot joke. You want to win and
you know it is him. But, I think you forget it pretty much the other side, the other
player. I mean, you play maybe a little bit more nervous when you play countryman, but I
think it is about the same, you just focus on winning the match.

Q. Would you rather not or is it okay?

SERGI BRUGUERA: No, I think it is better don't play, you know, with good friends. It is
better to play somebody else.

Q. You have suffered with a lot of injures. How was it coming back?

SERGI BRUGUERA: It was very, very painful, very tough and painful, especially the
second one. And, well, I make a lot of effort during all the season and especially at the
end of the year, the preseason I make a lot of work, a lot of efforts and fight even much
more than before because I mean, you are not normal, you have a handicap, so you have to
fight even more than normal to go back to your shape.

Q. In Paris you played the final against Kuerten. How do you see Kuerten, his style,
his performance at the French Open?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I think he is a great player. To win at the places he won, for sure, it
was not lucky because he has the game to do it. I think he is really confident. I think he
is in good condition, great serve, he serve very well and he has great shots from
baseline. He hits it very hard. 

Q. What is more important, second place at the French Open, is that important to you as
the title?

SERGI BRUGUERA: No, it is much more important the titles. The title is always
important. I think it was for more difficult to arrive for the Finals here. So, for me, it
is more important to win both titles, but I mean, it was more difficult to arrive to the
Finals that year in the condition that I was than the years before when I won, it was easy
to win -- it was not easy, of course, but much easier than the Finals here.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT