U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1996
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Sergi, how much did the silver medal boost your confidence?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, maybe not my confidence, but my peace inside because I was very,
very nervous about my game, that I cannot recover, my injury. Then when I get the silver
medal, for me it was like so much relaxed. I make in my worst year one thing that I'm
going to remember for my life, which is amazing for me. That gives me a lot of peace, and
also I was more happy when I was going to the court to practice. I was like another
spirit, maybe not with my tennis, but mentally approaching the practicing in the matches.

Q. Physically, are you healthy now?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I still have problems with my foot because it's very dangerous
for your body, these courts. It's difficult to recover.

Q. Looks very easy today.

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, but the other days I lost very easy also sometimes.

Q. Do you think he'd go down that quickly? Did you think the match would be that fast,
be able to take him out that fast?

SERGI BRUGUERA: You never go to the court thinking it's going to be quickly. You always
think it's going to be difficult, then try to play your tactic, play your tennis. You
don't expect anything if it's going to be easy, three, five sets. You don't know. With
Stich, hardcourt, you always play a tough match.

Q. Could you talk about the adjustments for a claycourt player on the hardcourts, the
difference in the surface?

SERGI BRUGUERA: If I would what?

Q. Difficult surface for you, hardcourts?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Hardcourts, very difficult, yes.

Q. What is the difference?

SERGI BRUGUERA: The difference is almost everything. The bounces, you cannot slide, you
have less time for movement, you can go much faster when you go to the net, the serve is
much more dangerous.

Q. Can you explain what happened to you last year, this last year? Was it just the
injuries? What happened? Why this is just a bad year for you than now?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Injuries and almost all the year without playing. I mean, it's
difficult for everything, especially with the foot, you cannot move. You lose confidence.
Normally you start completely healthy. When you have a little pain, you start to lose
matches. Normally you hit here, you hit it here (indicating). It's like a wheel, every
time is getting worse. When you're really healthy, then you can win matches. I think it's
very important, the confidence in yourself, you win matches. You can practice a lot, but
if you have not continued with the matches, it's very difficult. You cannot have the
practice. Match play is very difficult.

Q. Does winning a match like this against a hardcourt player help your confidence a
lot?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I think any match is good for your confidence. If you beat a
great player on another surface, it's much more.

Q. The fact this they tried to put Mantilla out of the seed, did that give you some
more motivation to prove that the Spanish deserve respect?

SERGI BRUGUERA: No. If you don't have motivation to play in the Open, they don't have
to try to do something better to you to be motivated. Grand slam is enough to be
motivated. You cannot be more motivated than anything than for Grand Slams. 

Q. Are you prepared well for going through the next week, the second week, your best
result in an Open this year?

SERGI BRUGUERA: After I have to think about my match with Muster.

Q. How do you feel about the way you played generally? How do you feel about it?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I feel very good. I was playing very deep, big top spin. He cannot come
in very easy. He was trying to attack from very far from the baseline. That's where he
made more mistakes than usual. He was trying to attack from very far. It was impossible.
You have to wait for the right shot. I was not giving easy balls to attack.

Q. Sergi are you playing in Bournemouth after here?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yes.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT