U.S. OPEN
August 26, 1996
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Just about your match today, your impressions on how feel as you look forward with
the tournament?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I think I played a great match today. I played well all the time. Now I
play Stich, which is a difficult match for me. I feel confident with the way I'm playing.

Q. What are your impressions of all the controversy surrounding the seedings and the
draw and those types of things? I know a lot of players have been upset about that.

SERGI BRUGUERA: I'm agree with what Thomas Muster says.

Q. What are your personal thoughts on that? It seems like it's something a lot of
players are still dwelling on and still thinking about.

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah. I mean, all the thoughts that -- all the things they said
yesterday, the impressions that every player have, embarrassing what they did with the
draw. It's very ugly what they did to the players.

Q. Do you think it's slanted here in America for American players to show favoritism to
them in the draw and with the seedings? 

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, of course. For sure they get the advantage. If you're not seeded
and they put you seeded or if you're seeded you have to play Sampras earlier, they put you
in another player that you don't meet any good player until quarterfinals, semifinals,
that's an advantage. I think so.

Q. Is it that way in the other Grand Slam events for other players in other countries
where it's their home tournament? Is this kind of an understood thing or a little worse in
this tournament?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Just at Wimbledon, they don't have any player to get an advantage. I
think also a lot of people are complaining about this. They think it's not fair. I mean,
when they did it here, they did it also even much worse because with what they did with
the first draw. I mean, it's just one step more. Everybody was very angry. I think now all
the players are in the same thing, same thoughts. We're going to try to stop this and to
-- you're fighting all year to make a good draw in the Grand Slam, which is your best.
Maybe I don't know who is No. 14, maybe he cannot win the US Open, but maybe he can reach
quarterfinals if he get good draw. For him, quarterfinals is a big goal. If somebody, the
president from the USTA, they take it out and put it like playing first match Sampras, I
think it's completely unfair.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT