PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 14, 1996
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. What were you thinking when you went down 3-1?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: I was thinking that he was playing very, very well. I just trying to
keep in there and trying if I can change something or he was going down a little bit. I
think I start to hit a little bit more harder. He went down a little bit one game. I start
to play much better, take my chances and then I played really well in the match. 
 
Q. (Inaudible) to go up 5-3?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: What? 
 
Q. When he double-faulted to allow you to go up 5-3 in the second set, from there you
seemed to be pretty much in control?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Two breakpoints, second serve, even if he put the ball, I couldn't let
him. I don't think it was the key of the match. 
 
Q. So far this year with the Grand Slams, you don't see a lot of the big names winning.
As you look toward the Open, is that kind of hard, lesser known players winning the big
tournaments?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Difficult for the same player to win. For sure it's going to be always
different players. Real difficult to win, for Sampras, maybe to win eight times in a row.
Somebody's going to beat him, no? Some days he's going to lose. It's difficult to be in
your best shape. At the same time, even if you are, you can lose to somebody, no? Normally
Sampras would win, but it's difficult to win when every time closer and closer, anything
could happen. Is more difficult place to be. Maybe because everybody is more focused with
a mental advantage, more important. 
 
Q. So is it good for the game to have the different people winning?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: I don't know what is good for the game. Depends what side you look at.
I mean, the people who like to see Sampras winning, good that he can win. People that
would like to see other players. Nobody wants the same thing. It's difficult to say. If I
would see all the time the same final when I was seeing Becker, Edberg in the final. 
 
Q. (Inaudible) What kind of extra focus does it take to win a Grand Slam?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Best of five sets, you have to play better all the time. Maybe you have
one hour and a half, one hour and ten minutes of unbelievable tennis, you still cannot
win. You have to win another set. That is what happened, a lot of things, in the Grand
Slams, then you have more time to change or to adjust your game. Maybe you are losing 6-2,
6-2. In a normal match you would have lost already. Then you see a lot of matches 6-2,
6-2, then you finally get your game, he cools down, and you win. You have more time to
recover, then you have to play more time in the match. That's why I think it's more
difficult to win also. Five sets gets more difficult. 
 
Q. Do you think you gained a lot from the Olympics in your game?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Yes. I get a lot of confidence. For me the Olympics, like I said
yesterday, was important, not for to get confidence for the next tournament. For me it was
very important. That's the only thing that matters for me. 
 
Q. With Sampras and Agassi dominating the Open, what is it going to take for some of
the international players to knock them off this time around?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: The same on clay, it's difficult. The Americans play well. They're not
used to play that. The Europeans, there's no hardcourt in Europe. Indoor, okay. You play
all your life on hardcourt, you're used to it. Here it's difficult. For example, for me
it's difficult. The Americans are maybe more used to it. The most important thing is they
practicing all their life here, adjust to the hardcourt, your body. It's hard for your
body also the hardcourt. I mean, they have much better chances to win it, for like the
Europeans when they play on clay. Much easier for the European players to win French Open
and American players to win US Open. 
 
Q. How do the people back home react to you getting the silver medal?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Very well. Everybody was very exciting, very happy. It's a hardcourt,
really fast court. Everybody was very happy. Also tennis is very important for Spain.
Everybody is looking out, very excited about the medal. 
 
Q. Did you go back home?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: No, I play Cincinnati. 
 
Q. So you never went back home after you won the silver?
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: No. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT