PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 12, 1996
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sergi, 48 minutes, expect it to be that easy?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I didn't expect my matches going to be easy, even no matter who
you play. But I think I play -- actually, match I play really well all the time, and makes
me -- makes it much easier, because I returning every time and giving me a lot of
confidence.

Q. How hard was that winning the that silver medal, was that momentous for you?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, it's really important just for the fact that I get a silver
medal, no matter what I'm doing afterwards. I mean, it's just important. I'm not thinking
about that, even now it's going to give me confidence for this or that. I'm just thinking
about the silver medal for what it is, and no one get can get it.

Q. Sergi, where are you? At what stage are you as far as your come back goes? A couple
of years ago top five ranking, I believe as high as four, and at the moment three -- I'm
sorry, at the moment somewhere in the 70s. I know you had the injuries and that kind of
thing, can you talk a little bit about where you are now in your bid to make a big climb
all the way back?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I'm trying to don't talk to much and to work more. And it's the
only thing now -- get happy is the only thing for me is important now. And I'm just trying
to work all the time. And I think -- I feel hungry of victories, and I want to be top
again. And that's -- that's the most important thing. I know if I have this, and I -- I
have the -- I the hunger for to keep working and keep trying to win, I mean, the other
thing is going to come for sure. So, you know, the only thing, if you don't want to work
or you are not like -- you think you're done and everything, then it's -- and it's so much
impossible to go up again. But, I mean, I -- I want to work, and that will be the only
thing important me.

Q. So you're not discouraged at this stage?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I'm discouraged, of course. I have all the year I pass very, very
hard moment, very tough. I get too serious; very, very big injuries, and they continue in
the short time. And the last one I think I start too early and I get problems again. And I
feel a little bit problems with my feet now. And for me, it's very important, my legs. I
mean, I'm playing from baseline, running a lot, and it's more important for me and that
for one big, big server now. And it's difficult. You know, I lost the confidence a little
bit. I mean, you lost a little bit your game. You start up games. It's difficult to come
back. I think with the victories and winning matches, you come back. And, of course,
working hard.

Q. Turned it around out there 3-3, and then (inaudible.) Something to turn around, you
didn't find your rhythm?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I mean, I start to catch much better this serve in 4-3, and I then have
like (inaudible). And I think that's an easy way. And finally I get the right, and I get a
lot of confidence. And then I start to return all the time very good, and the match was
more easy for me then.

Q. How is your game on the hard court now? Is it where you want it to be?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I mean -- it's difficult because I -- I think when you play --
when you are young and until I was 18 years old, I never play even one time in hard court.
So your game is all the other strokes, mentally everything is just to the clay court game,
so it's difficult when you're rolling and to change. But, you know, I'm trying to play a
lot on this court, and I think that three or four years I play much more in hard court
than indoors, and I play much more. Then I think I'm improving a lot. But still I have to
be my best shape, my best confidence to play well in this surface. In clay, even if I'm
not a hundred percent or whatever, I have more weapons and more arms to play there and to
still winning. Here I have to be in my best shape.

Q. You mentioned your legs. Was your injury a problem?

SERGI BRUGUERA: The ligament in my foot.

Q. And you had problems last year?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah. (Audible).

Q. Sergi, over the years, playing all over the world, is there a difference in terms of
the press, the media? Is the media different from one country to another; one stranger
than the other?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I don't know. Maybe the question is almost the same. But I cannot read
-- or accomplish what they saying. So I don't know. It depends -- it depends with the
people from the country. You never know. Sometimes it's always helping when you're talking
very good about his players, and everything is always better than -- and that's good for
-- (Inaudible.) If you win, you're the best, if you lose, you're the worst.

Q. With your overwhelming performance today, are you feeling pretty good about your
chances in this tournament the way you kind of got started today?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, it depends. If I will keep playing like this, yes, I would like
to play like this all the rest of my tournament. But I think -- I just think the match
doesn't matter. I have to be a long way to go to get my confidence and my form. And also
it's more difficult for me to get it in hard court. It would be much easier if this part
of the year we would be playing (inaudible) -- I know I could play more matches, and
that's what I need. But I'm trying to learn also playing this court, and I'm going to play
also very well on this court, if possible.

Q. You like playing here?

SERGI BRUGUERA: New Haven.

Q. New Haven.

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, I play very good the other year. I remember we play --
(Inaudible.) The people here treat me very well, very good attention and relaxing.

Q. Anything else for Sergi?

Okay, thank you.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT