XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
August 3, 1996
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Sergi, have you ever seen Andre play better than he played today?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I think when he's on, he's the best player in the world on this surface, particularly.  He played too good for me today.


Q.  If you had started better perhaps and applied some pressure at the beginning the match do you think it could have been a different story?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I don't know, but for sure it would more even the score.  He cannot play with that confidence and try for winners all the time, that's for sure.  But that's the way it was and now it's like this.  I cannot change it now.


Q.  Was there any point of the match you felt you could get back into it?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  The beginning of the second set I had 40-Love, first game I lost it and then I had like 2-1 and 15-40 to come back, at the beginning of the second set maybe if I make my game point, maybe, I was up and I play with more confidence.


Q.  Do you have confidence for going through the rest of the season, because of your performance here?  How important has this showing been for you?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, this is very important for me, just for the meaning for the medal.  I'm not worried about if it's going to give me confidence for the next tournaments or whatever.  I just think that I get the medal is the only important thing for me, and the only thing that matters now.


Q.  Was that the best you've seen Andre play?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Yes, against me, yes.


Q.  How does winning a medal compare with the Gland Slam experiences, the French Open?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think the French Open is always what you're dreaming of all your life.  The Olympics now is a huge thing for us, but for historic, not when you are -- I think when you have to dream, you dream something, is when you are a little boy and then you are working and you're dreaming for winning French Open.  Maybe the tennis player that is coming now, maybe they're going to give more importance for the Olympics.  But I like very much the Olympic Games, for me it's very important.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT