XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
August 1, 1996
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you describe the feeling you had when you were lying on the ground after you won the match?  You seemed to be very happy.

SERGI BRUGUERA:  For me it was an unbelievable feeling because it's a very important moment in my career, but a very difficult moment.  And it was very, very important for me.  The medal and also this time, even more.


Q.  Because of the --

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Because of my injuries and this year was -- I passed through very tough moments.


Q.  Can you elaborate a bit more what you mean?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I didn't win too many matches, I was injured.  I wasn't playing well.  And everything was not going very good.


Q.  Do you think it's sort of ironic that you and Arantxa are in the finals here and you couldn't do it in Barcelona, but you both have a chance to win the gold?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Yes, because normally we should have more possibilities to make it in Barcelona.  But sometimes it happens like this.  In Barcelona I was injured also and Arantxa, she -- she played a close match and very well.  But we are still fighting, and now we are here, we are very, very excited at the Olympic Games here.


Q.  Sergi, assuming it's Agassi in the finals, how do you expect that match to go?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, that will be an easier question to answer after the match.  I don't know how it's going to go.  I play Andre a lot of times.  When he's on, he's the best player in the world, and especially on these courts.  From what I see he's playing very well and very concentrated for the Olympics.  And he will be -- it will be a very, very difficult match for me.


Q.  Sergi, you mentioned your injuries, are you feeling better now?  Have you been feeling good this whole tournament and still are?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, at the beginning I was not feeling too well for the moment, because it's difficult on the hard court, instead of clay, for your feet.  But after playing matches you forget and concentrate on the matches.  And sometimes when you are very concentrated you forget the injury.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT