U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1995
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Tell us what happened. Was it because you were not playing well or was he playing
better than you expected.

SERGI BRUGUERA: No, I think I am not playing well since few time I am playing my worst
tennis last couple of months. I think here, for me, it is very difficult if you are -- if
I am not playing well and feeling very well. It is difficult that I win any match.

Q. How much did McEnroe help you?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, he is not God. He cannot make me a God.

Q. Is he going to continue to help you or --

SERGI BRUGUERA: Let us see. We will talk.

Q. Was he watching your match here?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yes.

Q. What did he try -- what did he change in your game to adapt to the court? You return
closer from the line. 

SERGI BRUGUERA: I think in one week it is not many things you can adjust to the game. I
think after one week, you have enough to play well on hard court. It doesn't mean -- I
already was playing well because I have been playing for seven years on this Tour.

Q. You play better indoor?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, I like much more better. Much more better indoor.

Q. Why do you play better indoor?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Because it is much faster. You have to think so much, and it is not
windy and you always -- very well, the ball, so I don't know, I like it much more. Here it
is difficult between here and indoor, and here, I don't know what to do.

Q. Do you like indoor better than clay?

SERGI BRUGUERA: No!

Q. Sergi, are you already thinking about next year in some respects about getting
yourself back in good shape and have a real good preseason; is that already in your mind?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, since I get injured, and I was always like going like this. I
have pain in my knee, and then was going out; coming back and was losing matches and I
have to make like play Stuttgart; then go to Montreal; then go to Cincinnati, so it was
very hard for my mind and for my physical -- it takes my physical -- so many flights make
my physical condition so bad. Since I get injured I didn't make it too well after the
French. I saw -- I went very good shape; I just want to past the year as fast as possible
and think about next year.

Q. Are you hoping to go to the the Australian and start off with a Slam this year?

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, I think I am going to go to Australia.

Q. You said that John could not work miracles, but what was it like working with
McEnroe?

SERGI BRUGUERA: It was excellent. I had a very great time. He showed me and teach me a
lot of things that I know that he told me, but it is difficult for me to do it because for
one week it is difficult to make the changes. You need time to adjust your game to do the
things he say, but I think he is a great experience for me. I think I learned a lot and he
is going to help me for sure for the future on this surface.

Q. What were one or two things that he suggested?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I don't know, many things about my serve, I am serving much better, I
don't know, to be more aggressive, you have to be more aggressive on these courts; think
much faster -- maybe think what is going to happen next, because on clay you have time to
recover. Here - no.

Q. Don't you think it is kind of tough though because you are coming into a big
tournament; you want to focus on the matches to have somebody telling you a week before to
change things in your game, a week before Grand Slam; that is pretty quick to digest?

SERGI BRUGUERA: I know. He doesn't try to change my game. He just try to teach me
things that -- I didn't play bad because I tried to change my game. I played bad because I
have been playing very bad since last two months. I think, at least, I was with more --
more happiness to go to the court because he was there. Before I was going, oh, I don't
want to practice. With him, I had great week this week. I think I learned a lot and I was
much happy about going on court and to play.

Q. Is he an expensive coach?

SERGI BRUGUERA: No, because he doesn't need the money. He just do it because he likes
to do it and I am so happy that he said whatever he likes is not enough, but I think it
not expensive at all. He do it very well. He was always teaching me a lot and on the court
and he was always ready and I think I have very great time with him.

Q. Are you going to continue this relationship with him?

SERGI BRUGUERA: If he wants to help me, whenever he wants, for sure.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT