VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 27, 1995
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You needed a match like that to get back into  the game?  

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I need any kind of match; as  much as I play better for me because I didn't play -- I  played like six matches all the year, so what I need is  play a lot of matches.  It doesn't matter which match.  


Q.  This match, Sergi, was tougher than you were  expecting or not?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: No, because you always play;  it's going to be tough in difficult match.  I never  play against him, so I don't know how to expect because  I never play him.  I think he is a very good player.  He have a lot of power.  He can move the ball very  well, and it is difficult to make winners to him  because he cover, very well, the court and have pretty  good serve.  


Q.  Did you notice the improvement between this  match and the match you played yesterday?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I think as much as  playing, I am going to feel better, for sure, if I am  winning much more, so I think -- but every match is  different, but I think I feel a little better today.  


Q.  Because yesterday after a tough first set you  had to relax a little bit during the second set and you  lost the second set, but today you could play all the  way with the same power and the same efficiency?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yes.  Yes, because the other  day was my first match, practically, since I got  injured and I need this kind of feeling, you know, when  you are playing, the feelings of the competition and  the tight matches, and that is what happened.  When I  didn't felt until that day and then after I need a  little bit of break, that was the second set and then  the third again.  Now, today, I have much more  confidence on what is going to happen on the court.  


Q.  The key of this match was the very, very long  game at the second set.  

SERGI BRUGUERA:  The 3-All.  


Q.  Yeah.  How long did it take the 20 minutes?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: I don't know, it was very  close game and with his serve I have volley and -- two  or three breakpoints more; then I have lucky and spring  broke; then I broke and I think -- and also 4-3, I have  15-40 down, so it was not sure all the time.  It was  very close.  


Q.  You don't feel too tired after --  

SERGI BRUGUERA: No, today, I feel very well.  


Q.  And tomorrow against Gaudenzi with the  Italian public?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well -- what happened?  Gaudenzi is not playing that poorly.  He is  not going to win one point because of the public.    


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT