VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 26, 1995
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  I think that you played the longest set of  the tournament and the shortest set.  The first one was  the longest set of the tournament and the second one  was the shortest.  What was the difference between the first and  the second set?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I think probably my  first match since the injury, in Barcelona, I was not  ready, and for me, it was very tough.  No, the  competition is very different and everything is tough  to go again, with controlling everything, and it was  very.  When I finished the set I feel like I was very  tired and I have to give a breath, you know, and that  is why I lost.  Maybe if I make the break in the first  game I would try, but I lost.  Then I get break; then I  was going down, so then I was preparing for the third  set.  


Q.  You felt much better for the third set?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, I was not tired; not  completely tired from that.  But the rhythm of the match was very tough.  And then I am not used to it  yet, so -- but I think it was good to make set like  this or matches like this, I need as much as possible.  


Q.  Overall, you consider it as a good match?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I think it was good  match for me for -- to get in shape and to try to play  like before.  


Q.  What happened in the third set because you  argued for five minutes with the chair umpire for a  drop shot which was -- I don't know if it was out or  not out, but --  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, it was one drop shot  that I was running to the ball.  It was very close and  then I don't know if it was going in or not.  Then they  call out.  Then I stop running and then the ball was  very close.  I thought it was out, but the umpire said  it was good and it is because of this I said, okay,  because he was not changing his mind.  I said, okay,  about two words, he said that no, no, that it was point  for Javier.  Then I was so angry because it is two  words because I stop running because he -- the lineman  called it out.  Nobody stops to maybe it out or maybe  it is good because if it is good, you cannot arrive;  you are arriving until they call out.  I was running;  then they call out and I stop and he said, no, that he said that I stopped much before that he called out,  that is why --  


Q.  It was an important point?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, very important because  I was disconcentrated, then he get breakpoint to come  back.  


Q.  How do you feel after this match?  Do you feel your legs are okay; you are not  too tired.  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, when I came here I was  not very good and then I make a tendinitis very bad  because I was like block (sic) my knee and thanks to  the physical therapist from here, from the tournament,  I was much better.  I didn't play for five days.  It  was raining and I didn't play.  So it was first day I  was playing.  


Q.  But during the match your knee was okay?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, my knee was okay during  the match.  But still, I have to gain a lot of muscle  because there is a big difference still with this.  Sometimes when I finish I feel like sore or a little  bit painful, but during the match it was okay.  Sometimes I feel it, but it is painful at the moment,  but then it is goes away.  It doesn't stay, the pain,  because I think it is the circuitry.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT