COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 7, 1994
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Sergi, has the '94 success surprised you?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think I was not -- I  know it was very difficult year for me when I started  the season because I have to defend a lot of things,  the Grand Slam, for sure, and maybe I was a little bit  surprised to win the title again because it was very  difficult.  I was very proud.  I think it was maybe I  was happy; a little bit surprised how well I did in the  indoor tournaments and hard court also and even grass,  and that makes me confident for the next year to play  on these surfaces.   
 

Q.  To me, you give the impression of having  matured a lot in a lot of ways.  Like as a boy to a man  but it shows in your game as well.  Is there a  connection, you think, that you have started seeing  different things in life and it helps you in your game  as well?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I don't know.  I think  the people learn during the years and I think that  maybe is the experience that everybody is talking that  always when you get the experience, it is very  important.  I think maybe it is true, when you see a  lot of things and you make a lot of mistakes and  finally you realize why you are losing these matches or  what you are making wrong, and you see it and then you  can change it.  And I think it takes awhile.  Maybe  they see -- they say what you are doing wrong, "this,  this, this," but if you don't see, it is very difficult  to change it.  Maybe with the time I change it and  well, I am listening to my father and I think he knows  a lot in everything and I think finally I am seeing  more what he is saying and I am trying to change it and  I think it is a biggest step for me.  Maybe that is the  maturing that you say.   
 

Q.  Your father still plays a big role in your  tennis career?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  And as a father?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Yeah.   
 

Q.  Can you specify his task these days?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think he is doing  maybe everything, like first he is father; then coach  and also as a friend.  He knows me very well.  We have  very good relation, and sometimes when I make the  change like young boy to more man, it was hard time and  we have difficult time like everybody, you know, father  and son, they are very close and -- but I think we talk  a lot about these problems.  I think, for me, he is  very important for me because I have 100% confidence in  what he is saying to me in every sense and I know that  he wants the best for me.  He is always thinking and  listening; talking with -- trying to learn everything  for to teach me and be better in everything and I think  he is very important in my career, my father.   
 

Q.  Last week Richard Krajicek said to me that  you have surprised him a lot this year and the one  thing he found most is that you are so -- you were  always quick, but you have become so fast on every  surface, it is unbelievable.  Did you do anything specific.  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, that you have to talk  with my physical preparer.  I have been with him since  I was, I think, maybe 14, 15, like this.  I think he is  really good.  He is very good and I am working a lot in  gym.  That is, I think, for me always I thought was  very important physical condition and that is why maybe  I work hard in that part and maybe that is why that I  have the condition and I am very fast and also everyone  has something with the muscles or everything that if  you work more -- sometimes you have one characteristic;  somebody is very powerful and is very powerful  naturally, and I think I am fast naturally, but also I  work on it.   
 

Q.  Isn't it slowly creeping into your head "why  can't I be the No. 1?"  I mean, you showed your skills  on all surfaces this year, you can beat everybody on  almost any court now.  Isn't it slowly creeping into  your head?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think now I realized  that I can play really well on all the surface.  I play  -- indoor is the most difficult court.  I play semis  in Milan; that I lost in three sets, very close, to  Korda and semis in Stuttgart, fastest court, semis  there, three sets, very close that I could win and then  I played quarters in Stockholm; semis in Bercy and  semis in the IBM/ATP and big tournaments winning good  players, when sometimes maybe you play good tournament  you think, well, it was my way, but when you are more  consistent and playing that way and always very close  matches, that maybe it is experience at that moment  makes the difference and I think with the years maybe I  can -- I am going to try to play at the same level on  clay or indoors.   
 

Q.  I mean, dreaming about No. 1, now you have  it; you can do it, you know it now.  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think I still have  to improve a little bit on the other surface.  I was --  well, I am 3, I was 3 almost all the last part of the  year and if I would beat Andre in the semis in Bercy, I  would be No. 2, so No. 1 is next just one step. But I  think Pete was very good this year and I think nobody  can take the No. 1 in the future.  Maybe I think I can  do it when you are No. 3, it is just two players ahead  of you, so why not?   
 

Q.  During this year you became all-around, even  expert for fast courts.  How did this develop?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, it is because I try to  play a lot of tournaments in the past in indoors and  hard court and well, I think it is the only way maybe  to improve for us when you play in Spain because there  is no indoor courts for practice and I think the only  way is, you know, go to the tournaments and practice  hard and when you play on clay, you normally win a lot  of matches and then suddenly with people that you  should win easy; then you are having trouble or you  lose; then it is tough for the players, but you don't  have to think about this and try to play to keep  playing and when you are in the tournament practice  hard and watching matches see how good players they do  it and try to learn what is the tactics or tricks  that --   
 

Q.  Did you change anything in your tactics in  your practice sessions?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, yes, I am trying to  adjust my game and trying to do the shots or the things  that are more in these courts because, for example,  maybe topspin that is the most painful shot in clay;  here it is nothing.  They bounce a little medium.  It  is no effect; then you can hit -- topspin is not  that -- you have to change a little bit on this court.   
 

Q.  What are your biggest improvements this year,  your volley or your serve?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  I think -- I didn't improve  like huge difference in nothing, but I think I improve  a little bit everything myself.  I am more consistent  with myself.  My volley, I improve it and I think my  baseline game on these courts, I improve, to receive  the ball because coming very fast; with the clay, you  have very long shots and it is difficult to adjust a  little bit again.   
 

Q.  Do you think it is possible on hard court to  play from the baseline, on faster courts to play from  the baseline as Agassi did in Wimbledon?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  In Wimbledon, I cannot do  it.  Agassi is unbelievable.  I think he is the only  one that can do it, but I think nobody else can do.   
 

Q.  You don't think you have to change your game  completely on fast courts?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  No, but in Wimbledon, yes,  you have to serve and volley for me.   
 

Q.  And you will?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  That is what I did.  Serve  and volley first and second.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT