ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 1994
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Sergi, how is it to against so many people?  

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think if you play  well, it is a good feeling.  


Q.  Sergi, this was nearly your masterpiece in  indoor tennis.  Why at the end does it happen?  

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Sorry?  


Q.  It was nearly your masterpiece in indoor  tennis.  

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think I lost four  times in the semis this year in indoors in big  tournaments, but it was very close, but when you are in  semis in indoors you always play with one of the best  players in the world, with a lot of confidence, and the  other one win a lot of matches to be there, and it  means that he is playing also his best tennis.  So it  is very difficult, every time much tougher when you  pass rounds and rounds and -- well, I think Boris  played a great match today and he served very, very  close moments.  He played really well.  He served well  and that is why he is Boris.  Normally he plays very  well in the close moments.  


Q.  Would you say the first two sets were the  best you played indoor?  

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I don't know because  normally I am used to playing a lot from baseline, and  then when I am feeling that I am playing well, if you  play shorter balls, I don't feel like I am playing a  lot and -- but for the kind of serve and volleys, I  don't know, I think a few times in the past I played  good matches too, but I think playing good match with  Boris is much difficult than playing with another  player well too.  


Q.  What happened at the end of the second set?  You got nearly the match in your hands, what happened?  

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think I know that  was no race all the match and I was serving well and  when I was 15-40 I know it was like matchpoint for me  and then he served very well, both points, and then  when I have breakpoint, second serve, I make very good  return at the feet, so I thought it was maybe finished  and then he put one good half volley and then I was  waiting and I saw he was moving to down the line and  then I hit a good crosscourt and then, you know, he  made like this, quick (moving from one side to the  other), make good volley then two aces and then I --  then I think I lose little bit the faith in me and he  start -- he played two winners return from 5-4 and then  he broke me.  


Q.  Third set was too much for you?  

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, if I would start with  a break then I have breakpoint in the first game, could  be another story, but he play 1-0 and then he played  again good game and then with 2-Love, he was, and  coming from three breakpoints he was with a lot of  confidence and I couldn't take out of my mind the 4-All  and the three breakpoints.  


Q.  Being a clay court player, what do you find  most enjoyable when you play indoors, like what is --  what are you having fun with playing indoors?  

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I don't get tired  (audience laughter)  


Q.  No.  I mean, is it your return?  

SERGI BRUGUERA:  My what?  


Q.  Your return.  

SERGI BRUGUERA:  No.  No.  No.  I am talking  seriously.  "I don't get tired."  That is much fun.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT