ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1994
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Sergi, did you feel you were playing yourself  out there at times?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: If I feel what?   
 

Q.  Did you feel you were playing against someone  who was effectively yourself during that match?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: I don't know, I never played  never before with myself, but I think that he is more  used to playing these courts and I think he hits more  -- little bit more flat than me.  I get more topspin  and here it is less painful.  I think when you playing  much flat and take the ball earlier, it is hurting much  more on these courts.   
 

Q.  Sergi, you came so nicely in the second set,  what happened then?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I think the third set  just was one break.  I think he start serve a little  bit better and I was just one break -- he try for  winners every time and he got it, and also very close  call in the breakpoint, and that was the match in the  third set.  Maybe, also, the first set 4-All, 40-15  advantage he tried to win his return on the line; that  could be 5-4 for me.  Then I was coming back from 3-1  and maybe it could change a little bit.  But still, it  goes like this and nothing to do.   
 

Q.  How do you see this match, do you see it as a  good success, good progress to go three tough sets with  him on this surface or did you see it as disappointing  because you wanted to win it?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: Always you lose, you are  disappointed.  If you play well and the other play  little better than you, then it is less disappointing.  But the important thing was qualifying, I think, for  me, also to win today because it is better to win.  Much important thing is to qualify.  I did it.  I think  I played good match.  He played a little bit better  than me today and he deserve to win.   
 

Q.  What do you think about the match tomorrow?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I think maybe Becker,  he has been playing much better at this season in  indoors, and also everybody knows that when Becker is  on, he is the best player on indoor, probably.  And it  will be tough match like today, but a little bit  different than the players I have been playing because  he is serve and volleying and goes to the net much  more, so it will be a different kind of match.   
 

Q.  Do you think the surface will suit him better  than you or the other way around; like the surface more  than you do?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, since he is in Germany  there is a lot of indoor courts.  And, you know, when  you are growing up, you are adjusting your game to the  court that you have been practicing, so he have the  shots that are much painful in this surface; when I am  used to playing on clay, you know, I know that the  topspin is the painful shot in that, and so I am trying  to have much topspin and higher, and here, he is  playing good tactic in indoors; he is very -- he serve  unbelievable and he -- good run, good volley and plays  very well from baseline; also very hard and heavy  balls.  So I think he is very complete and it is  difficult to find the weakness.   
 

Q.  Sergi, the spectators will go tomorrow for  Becker.  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: I don't know.   
 

Q.  This is half of the question.  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: Maybe I think all the crowd  is going to be for me.  (kiddingly).   
 

Q.  Will that bother you?  Does it bother you?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, it is better to have it  than playing in Germany and playing Boris Becker, you  know, that all the crowd is going to be like, you know,  clapping every point and yelling.  It is -- I like  sometimes when the people is excited about the match  and I am playing, even if it is for the other one.  I  prefer that they yell for the other one and be calm,  you know, don't say nothing.  I like the people enjoy  it.  If they see Becker and they enjoy it, it is good  for me.   
 

Q.  Sergi, how big a deal was it in Spain when  Boris won Wimbledon at the age of 17?  Do you remember  hearing much about that in Spain which is a big clay  court place?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: I don't know.  You should ask  journalists.  They wrote about this.   
 

Q.  What about you, do you remember watching that  match or hearing about it?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I heard it was, you  know, not just in Spain, I think in every part of the  world they talk about Boris, because when somebody at  the age of 17 wins Wimbledon, I think everybody talks  about it.   
 

Q.  Did you see the match?  Do you remember  watching it?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: I remember I saw.  I saw a  little bit, yes.  I think I was playing teams, European  teams.   
 

Q.  Sergi, Andre said that the court, the surface  suits you, I mean, is good for you; it is slow and the  balls are heavy; do you agree with it?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I think the balls  doesn't depend the court.  I think sometimes it is much  rough and it gets bigger, the balls, but if you take  another balls that doesn't have a lot of hair, and then  goes much faster so the ball doesn't just depend how  they do it.  The court, I think, is -- well, I think  that the people are enjoying much more because they see  little bit more points, you can still serve and volley,  but you have to serve well and make good volley, not  just with winners; is much fair for everybody and much  enjoyment for me.  I like to see more when they are  playing much more tennis than not just serve or serve  and volley and it is quick points because you cannot be  able to put it back.   
 

Q.  It is slower than last year?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: I think a little bit slower,  yeah.   
 

Q.  Because of the balls or because of the  surface?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: I think because of the  surface, because the balls are still like the last  year, I think.   
 

Q.  How do you feel about the progress you have  made this year on surfaces other than clay?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I feel so happy about  my game and I feel very excited because I feel I am  much better player; that I like to play indoors.  I  like to play hard court, so it has open me like six  months of the year, and now I can play much relaxed  clay court season because I know I can get points  everywhere in every part of the year, and I think it is  better because, you know, like you are playing another  type of game, so you don't get bored to play the same  way every time, so sometimes I am enjoying very much  when I play indoor, when I am playing well.  You know,  when I -- when you are not feeling very well, it is  difficult to adjust your game because you don't pass so  many balls and you don't have -- when they serve like  30 aces, it is not fun.   
 

Q.  Sergi, if you reached the final, will it be  the third best achievement of your life?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA: I don't know.  Monte Carlo was still very, very big event in  my mind.  When I just start -- you know, the goal is  when you are very young and the tournaments I was  watching was always Monte Carlo, French Open and Rome,  Hamburg, all these kind of tournaments and the Grand  Slams and the ATP Tour, but when you are playing and  you see how difficult it is on indoors, then you are  going down, and mentally, but now I am going up again  because I think I can play much better and probably  winning is always much better to than to lose in the  finals, so I think if maybe I win it, it would be the  third one, yeah, but if the final, I prefer to win  Monte Carlo.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT