ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1994
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Sergi, what do you think about all the talk,  all the arguments that was about Alberto this week?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: About what?  


Q.  About Alberto.  

SERGI BRUGUERA: What did they say?  


Q.  About the fact that he is here.  They said so  many things here.  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I think he is one of  the few players that win the World Championship from  the Grand Slam.  I think he take more points than  anybody, and he deserves to be here because he played  much better than all the others.  


Q.  You don't think that there is a problem with  all these best of 14 results on one surface?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: If it was, Alberto, he would  not play the tournaments on indoors that he play  because first round, even I think he will be more up  because he just played clay tournaments, he will be  more up even because he is one of the best players in  the world in clay and I think it is much tougher to  play well on clay.  And also with his size, that  normally it is tough to serve well, and I think he  serve better for him than almost everybody, and I think  he is a huge player to play and I think nobody likes to  play him on clay.  


Q.  What was it like to play him on hard court as  opposed to clay?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: On hard court, you can ask  Chang was losing 6-1, 3-1, 15-40 against Alberto on  hard court, so I don't think it is nice to play either  him on hard court.  


Q.  What about for you, as you have always played  on clay with him?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: I can tell you I prefer to  play everybody else than Alberto on clay.  


Q.  Who do you prefer to play in the semi?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I am in the semis.  For  me, it is a huge result to play semifinals in the ATP  Tour, and to be in semifinal for me is okay no matter  who I play.  I think I am going to try -- you cannot  get good draw if you are in the semifinal in these  events, so it doesn't matter who I am going to play.  It will be a great player.  


Q.  Sergi, who has got the better chances to go  up to the semifinals from the other group?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: I don't know.  I think Becker  has the best chance because he has two wins already and  he is playing great tennis, and Sampras, Ivanisevic  always tough to know.  Goran, if he serves the way he  normally does, it is almost impossible to break him, so  you have to go to the tiebreak, and I don't know, maybe  I bet for maybe Becker and Sampras, but it is  championships only.  


Q.  Where does this sort of fit for you in your  non-clay career in getting to go in this tournament  this far; is this your biggest achievement, you think,  off clay?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: I think Bercy is also tough  tournament to play.  I went two times to the semis, but  here is the best eight, and it is more special, and  maybe it is my best achievement out of clay.  


Q.  You approached the net many times against  Alberto.  Is it a tactical line that you adopted; you  go to the net more than you used to?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, it depends on how I  feel at the moment, and it depends how is the ball.  Normally I used to come a few times, but normally I  didn't make with Chang because he is one of the best  players, and it is tough to go to the net with him.  So, I prefer to stay back and control the point, and I  came also a lot with Chang, but sometimes I came with  very good shots.  So, with him, I have to volley and  here maybe I came with not as good shot and then I have  to make volleys.  I don't know.  It depends on the  match or how you feel to go to the net.  Sometimes you  feel more comfortable or sometimes you don't feel it,  you prefer to stay back.  


Q.  Compared to about three years ago or so in  your training with your father and your sparring  partners when you are working out, what have you  changed in your practice in order to make yourself a  better all-court player?  What kind of things are you  doing now that you weren't doing three years ago in  training?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: There is no difference  because I think the only thing you can do is to  practice on the surface you are going to play.  It is  the only thing; the only way you can improve.  That is  what I did.  I play much more tournaments on hard court  indoor than on clay this year.  I play eight events on  clay and the others I played 24 with this one and all  the others was on hard court or indoor, and last year  it was all the same, I played a lot of indoors and hard  courts and I think it is the only thing that you can  improve playing matches to learn about your losses and  to get the rhythm of the other players in that court;  see what they do to win the points and to receive the  ball, the bounce, the way you have to move so  different; I think the only way is to play on the  surface.  


Q.  When you have your long periods of time off  when you are in Barcelona, do you play on clay or --  

SERGI BRUGUERA: I just play on hardcourt on  the off-season.  We have no hardcourts, but my father  take his academy and then we build eight hard courts.  


Q.  What kind of hard court?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Like similar as U.S. Open.  


Q.  Deco Turf?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah.  Then I practice there  all the month.  


Q.  You don't practice on clay when you are back  in Barcelona?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: No.  If when I am back after  Indian Wells -- after Key Biscayne, I practice on clay  because I have --  


Q.  Three years ago you practiced on clay in  Barcelona?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, even when I start, for  example, Australian, I was practicing on clay until my  father build the hardcourts.  


Q.  Sergi, do you think you can win another Grand  Slam title apart from Roland Garros?  

SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I think I am doing much  better every time and I am 23, so I have so many years  to improve my game on the other surface.  I make round  of 16 in all the other three, in Wimbledon, Australia  and U.S. Open, and in the French Open, until I play  like three, four years and I didn't pass round of 16  and suddenly I won the tournament.  I think, for me,  the best event to win would be Australia because the  bounce is much higher.  The other people get tired and  with my conditioning, maybe I have a better chance, but  it is tough to go there well prepared if you play all  the season because normally the people just play the  clay court season, but I cannot do it and then I get a  little bit tired at the end of the year because also I  want to play a lot of indoors.  When I go back to Spain  I play on hardcourt; then it is so tough to adjust my  game another time to indoor and then I prefer to keep  playing and then maybe next year I will try to prepare  my schedule for to go to Australia because I like the  tournament there.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT