ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1994
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
"A player who can classify for the ATP  finals playing only clay court tournaments is a  phenomenon.  Anyway, the rules are the same for  everybody, and to choose the kind of surface you want  to play on during the year, it's a personal option."   
 
"The difference in me between this and the  last year is that I noticed a very big improvement on  my game on every surface.  This, you can see on my  calendar because I  just played seven tournaments on  clay court and most of the points I got, I got them on  other kind of courts.  Every time I feel more and more  comfortable on clay court and I notice it mostly  because I don't get so forced to the ball.  I think  that if we had in Spain indoor courts, we would also be  the best ones in that aspect."   
 
"This court doesn't seem so fast as it was  last year.  I would say it's faster than Bercy's court  and not as fast as Stockholm's court."   
 
"I have much more possibilities here now  this year than the last year, although, to start with  Chang will be very tough.  But anyway, every player  here would be, although Chang is specially difficult to  play against because he is preparing here for Frankfurt  since last Wednesday because he wants to do it very  well.  This says a lot about him."   
 
"Berasategui's season has been incredible as  it has been the season of many Spanish players; even  the not so important ones to remember; some of them I  am referring to Corretja, Costa, Martinez and... And of  many other young players who prove that we are on the  very top."   
 
"I arrived to this Masters playing very  well, although I'm a little bit tired because instead  of taking a break, I prefer to play indoor to be  prepared to play here.  The last year I left Frankfurt  very satisfied just to be able to participate here, but  I don't think that the experience from the last year  will be a very big advantage for me this year.  My  favorites are Sampras, Becker and Agassi.  Of my group,  Agassi seems to be the stronger one; afterwards, I  would say Chang and then I.  The first march will be  crucial."   
 
"I don't think the new rules are very good  for tennis, and I don't think that they will  incorporate them.  No player wants them because they  are very difficult to accomplish.  The proposal comes  from the USA because there they have a very big problem  with the audience and they think that installing those  rules, the audience would increase.  This happens  because there are many Americans in the circuit who put  pressure to make it so.  I wish they will never get  it."   
 
"I saw myself in No. 3 right when the indoor  Paris tournament started.  And, in fact, I knew that if  Agassi was losing in semis I could even reach the No.  2."   
 
"To avoid the group of servers has been very  good for me because at least I know I can get to play.  In the other hand, it's also true that if you can reach  very good return level, the players who bet everything  on the service have a very big handicap if you have a  very good day on the return.  It depends on the point  of view."   
 
"My first official competition next year  will be Davis Cup in front of Austria. I want to go to  the Australian Open because I need a break.  And  anyway, I don't like to go there without specially  preparing for the event.  I want to play so much.  And  play in 1995 I will go only to Barcelona, Monte Carlo,  Hamburg and Roland Garros as big events."   
 
"If this would be in my hand, I would change  as a rule the extreme fastness of some indoor courts so  that the audience could see a little bit more of  tennis.  I think that the most complete game for the  tennis player and also for the spectator you can see it  on clay because there is where you need to be in better  shape in every aspect if you really want to win.  On  other court, you know, the points finish after one or  two exchanges, and this is very boring."   
 
"Many people think it's very strange that we  have in this Masters a tennis player who got to qualify  only for his -- their success is on clay court.  But  they have to think that there are some tennis players  who specially like those surfaces.  And we could also  complain about the fact that the ATP Finals are always  played on fast court or that there are many tennis  players who don't play on clay except for in a very  special occasions.  But this is how things are and  merits to get here can't negate to anybody because it  was very difficult for everybody.  It was the same  difficulty for everybody."   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT