U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1994
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  It was pretty good match for both sides.  I mean, did you feel any point where the match was decided - the second set tiebreaker; was that it? 
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I don't know.  I think all the time it was very close and I think that Thomas played really great match all the time.  He didn't have one up and down - never.  He was always at the same level and I think he played really well all the time.  
 

Q.  Were you a little bit disappointed that you were not playing on the Center Court? 
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  No, I rather play Grandstand than Center Court.  Center Court is a very bad court to play.  
 

Q.  But that match deserved a larger audience, I think. 
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  I don't know.  I don't know.  
 

Q.  You don't care for that? 
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  No, I just came to play well and I play whatever they said.  
 

Q.  Sergi, you have showed at Wimbledon what kind of athletic ability you had and you showed the same thing here by winning several matches.  Do you feel like you could have gone a little farther here if you just had a little more confidence in yourself? 
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I don't think that I was very good condition mentally and physically when I arrive here -- this is my 7th week or 8 weeks in a row and I was pretty tired, and with Thomas you have to be 100% and sooner or later I think I would play for these seven weeks in a row.  
 

Q.  Did you have the feeling that you had a chance to get to at least the semifinals here? 
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think that if I was in good mentally and physically, I think, well, I play with Thomas that -- I beat him three times and I think I can beat him.  
 
Andre and I play very close match in Toronto.  I was winning first set and I lost 7-6 in the second, so I had good chances to win that match.  Well, I think now I am playing much better, of course, I think I have chances.  
 

Q.  Did the tiebreaker -- once you lost the tiebreaker and you are down two sets to Love, how would you describe your attitude at that point? 
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, he had 3-1, but I think I was a little bit surprised the way he played in the tiebreaker.  I didn't expect that he attack so much and he was playing very hard and attacking very much and that I think it surprised me the first four points, then it was 4-1 down, but he played really well.  
 

Q.  As far as his play throughout the day and the long baseline rallies you had, how would you describe how well Muster played today? 
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think he played really well because he didn't play any short balls.  He was playing always very deep and it was hard for me to attack him and he was receiving the ball very well, even when he was under pressure, and also he served very good.  He was serving very hard and very high percentage from first serve and he was attacking the second ball and was controlling the point.  
 

Q.  Finally, you are both known as clay court specialists, but do you feel pretty comfortable on this surface?  Do you think it is a good surface for people who excel on clay? 
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  I think the problem with the clay court players normally that they don't have a good serve because even if you have a good serve you can play everywhere.  The serve here is like 80% of the game and then you have to return well.  So I think for Thomas or me or whatever player, on this court surface you have to be hard court specialist.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT