U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1994
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. If you compare him playing in Halle and today here -- if you compare him playing you
in Halle and today here, did he do a better job today? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, I think he played much, much better because also I think he
played more relaxed without pressure and playing very well all the time. I think he was
moving much better today than when we played in Halle. Now he is better fit and he played
very good from baseline.  
 
Q. How slow are these courts playing? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: For me it is fast. I think the courts are fast.  
 
Q. Do you agree that the key point of the match was that you saved the breakpoint in
the second set when it was 4-2? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, could be because at that time he was playing unbelievable. He was
playing every time winner. He was serving that I couldn't see the ball, even the ball, and
at that time he was playing so well and I was very, very worried and I don't know how to
do for to change the match. Then I played -- I saved that game, then I played good game at
4-3, then I was another time in the match. Then I started to play much better but I know
he could not play at this level all the match.  
 
Q. Do you expect another tough match against Muster? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, Muster is always tough. It is not going to be easy.  
 
Q. How are you feeling now? It is the first time that you are in the fourth round here,
U.S. Open, are you now a real hard court player, or is it just because you can play what
you want? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: If I what?  
 
Q. Do you feel well now on hard court? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I feel much better than the years before because I now I play
much more on this surface and I learn little bit more how to play every time. I think next
year I am going to be better, next year better, like this.  
 
Q. Do you think it is going to take a special coach for hard court tennis? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: No, because I think you don't need to know very much when you play on
grass or hard court, you just have to serve very well and if you serve like Ivanisevic or
like Goellner, those guys, I think you don't need to learn anything.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT