U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1994
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Are you feeling comfortable out on a hardcourt; everybody makes you out to be just a
claycourt player? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, not everybody, maybe you.  
 
Q. Do you feel like more than just a claycourt player? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I have -- I think I have much more resource than a lot of people
that they say they are hardcourt player. Finals in Dubai, semis in Milan, semis in
Stuttgart, more points than a lot of hardcourt players.  
 
Q. How did you feel the last game, the last set? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Very good.  
 
Q. Very comfortable? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: I was winning easy, and I thought it was -- he was like giving me the
match because it was like 5-6, 5-2, and then Love-40 and then he start to serve very good
seven match points I have, it was like six service points and just one would play, he play
winner and then he start to play very well and I was a little bit worried that I should
win the match all right.  
 
Q. Did it feel comfortable to play here in New York? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Sorry.  
 
Q. Do you feel comfortable to play here in New York? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, it's difficult to feel comfortable here, because everything is
very big and it's hard to concentrate and everything is difficult, but, at least a
tournament like this, you have to do it.  
 
Q. You are facing very well? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Yes.  
 
Q. Did your success in Wimbledon tell you you could play -- you could actually be a
better player on all surfaces than you previously believed? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, I believe that I can play well in hardcourt and clay, but not on
grass, grass I was thinking that I cannot play very well on that, but after the way I
played there and the way I beat and the matches, I played Davis Cup, gives me a lot of
confidence for next year to go and try something.  
 
Q. Do you play the same way on hardcourt as you do on clay or have you had to change
the way you play; tactics -- 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Not really, I play -- I think I play more the same, the same, try to
play the same as I play on clay, but I have maybe to improve a little bit more, to attack
a little bit more, and -- but this -- it's hard for me, because I'm normally attacking
watching the ball and watching where is the other player, put it here, put it there, here,
you don't have time to do that and it's very quick all the time. And I have to find a way
how to do it. But that's why I'm playing a lot of tournament, hardcourt, and practicing.  
 
Q. Are you surprised that you've been able -- that you're through to the third round or
did you always sort of expect that you could play well here? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, I have good results always in hardcourt, except in America.
Normally, America, when I play just two tournaments every year, and -- but I know I can
win a lot of players here because I did it, so, I don't feel so bad to win.  
 
Q. I know you always want to win, but how important is it for you to win a Grand Slam
title in something other than the French. How important is that to you? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Well, it's important like every other player is. Grand Slam is Grand
Slam, it's always important no matter what, but every player has his favorite and mine is
the French. I always look for the French and think about this. Because I grow up playing
on clay and since I was 18, 19 years old, I played my first tournament on hardcourt. And
when I start to play tennis, when I was 12, I didn't know indoor court exist. So how can I
play there if I didn't even know there was courts like this.  
 
Q. I guess what I'm wondering is do you feel you want to prove to yourself that you can
be as successful on other surfaces as you have been on clay? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: No, I went -- I don't want to prove myself nothing, I wanted to it. I
want to try to play well and -- on every surface and every match to be on top because you
can be on top to play on hardcourt and not just on clay. There's a thousand more
tournament on hardcourt than on clay and also much bigger. So if you want to be on top, if
you want to play more relaxed claycourt season, you have to take points everywhere.  
 
Q. Do you feel that you can win here? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: No. Now, no. In the first moment, I don't keep on come here -- like I
go to the French. I think if I play well, I'm going to win everybody. I think also I can
do. But here, if I know there's a lot of players that can beat me, I also know that I can
beat them. But to win a lot of matches you have to be very consistent and even if you're
not playing well, it's hard. On hardcourt I have to play well to win. If I play bad or I
don't feel very good that day, normally, I'm going to lose. On clay it's different. I have
more weapons and when I'm -- I maybe play better, have more weapons to come back or to try
to win the match.  
 
Q. How do you feel that you've played so far here; are you happy with the way you're
playing here? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: I'm not very happy, but I'm just playing normal. I'm okay. Not very
happy, not very bad.  
 
Q. How do you like to relax in your free time and are there any other sports that you
might just go play just for fun? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: You mean in tournament or --  
 
Q. No, your free time when you're not playing? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Oh, I like every kind of sport I like to play and to try everything.
Basketball, soccer, that's the most I can play, but anyway -- I played softball last week
and I like it very much, too. All kinds of sports. I like to go to the beach and take the
sun. That's about it for me.  
 
Q. About you playing on clay and on hardcourt, you don't get bored or what-- when the
press -- one court player, you don't get bothered by those? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: No, because I'm very used to this because it's normal and I have
success on clay and I don't play the same on hardcourt or indoor. That's very obvious, so
I'm not -- it's like this. But I think I'm not very bad on the other courts. I can play
well sometimes, but of course not the same as when I play on clay.  
 
Q. How did you do in softball; could you hit? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Yes, I was MVP -- well, I make three times, three times I make it.  
 
Q. You had three home runs? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: No, home runs, no. I hit and go to one base and the other hits and I go
to another-- how you say?  
 
Q. You scored three times? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Yes, I scored three times, but the fourth they catch me, the other two
behind me miss it and then we change.  
 
Q. Do you steal the bases? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Steal?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Yeah, but I don't know why I -- I cannot do it. I don't know very good
rules and maybe they thought I cheated, but I don't know. They make me come back.  
 
Q. Where did you play softball? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Schenectady.  
 
Q. And you had three hits in four at bats? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Three hits what?  
 
Q. You hit the ball three times? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: No, four times on one base and then the others came back. They catch
one out, two out, and was one out before me, and so three outs. I stay all the time on
that base. Two times I hit like this.  
 
Q. You bunted? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Yes, I missed two and then I went like this and run for the base.  
 
Q. Were there other tennis players playing or just you and -- 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: No, Costa played too, who was it -- it was a lot of players. Spanish, I
think me and Carlos and a lot of girls played and so -- girls and mens tournaments in
Schenectady.  
 
Q. Besides tennis, which sport do you do most often? 
 
 SERGI BRUGUERA: Soccer.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT