VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 21, 1994
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Sergi, how did you feel?  You had difficulty first set; then came back and won very easily.  Is that how you saw it?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think we play unbelievable first set.  We run a lot and was very tough, every point and it was so difficult one point for him and for me because we run so much.  We play very deep and hard and the balls is very slow and very big; difficult to win a point.  Then it was very, very tough, like I said, and then second set, I think he gets a little bit tired and then I start moving him around and then he cannot play with his forehand all the time and then at the end he start to get cramps and then that is it.


Q.  Did you feel any pressure at the beginning to play with the player that is in the hot line now?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Yeah, always it is difficult to play with a young guy.  He is coming up and he is playing his best tennis; winning tournaments and beating the best players in the world.  It is very difficult to play against these guys because nothing to lose.  They play very calm; very happy, and also what they do if they lost, no problem.  If they win, very good.  Then it is much easy to play for the others and it is much difficult to play against these kind of players.


Q.  And yourself, after the first set, how do you feel physically after the first set?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, when I finished the set, I was very tired.  But then suddenly, when I start to play the first game, I am recovered very well and I play with the side that was not sun and I recover very quickly and I was feeling very well.  That is why I start to play very hard and then moving around and I feel very well.


Q.  If he didn't have cramps or whatever or something like that, do you feel yourself ready to play for a long time?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Yes, because he start getting cramps maybe when it was 3-Love in the second, so I win three games.  He was pretty tired also.  He has to run much more than me because he has to play all the time with his forehand.


Q.  Sergi, you said yesterday that you expected to play at Wimbledon this year; where you haven't played, I think, since four years ago.  Why is your thinking different this year about Wimbledon?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, last year I want to go -- I was going. I was thinking to go there, but after I won the French I was very tired; I didn't practice for one week and a half so I think I was not ready to play and I decide to not go.  And last year, and two years ago, I didn't want to play because I was preparing the Olympic games 1992, so, that is why I didn't the last two years, I didn't play and then also I don't like to play Wimbledon, and -- but now I am going to play because it is a Grand Slam and for to try.


Q.  I didn't have a look at the records yet, but did you play Ivanisevic in the past?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Yeah.


Q.  How many times and where?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I play five times.  He beat me the first two in hard court and I beat him the next two on clay and he beat me in the Masters on indoor. 


Q.  Do you feel you are in good shape now as you were a year ago when you went on your way to win the French Open; do you think you can do it again this year?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  I don't know.  I think last year maybe I was playing a little bit better because I changed the racket this year; I am not playing comfortable with the racket.  I don't risk so much like last year.  I have to control more and until I get used to this racket, and also this year is much difficult to play than last year.  Last year was everything going very well and no points to defend in Monte Carlo; no points to defend in not so many places, so you play more relaxed.  But when I reach my best performance was in Dusseldorf, when I was playing there, I start to play the best tennis in my life and then I play three weeks very great.  And also the conditions in Monte Carlo was much better for me because it was much faster.


Q.  The two wins over Ivanisevic on clay, where was that?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Gstaad.


Q.  Both?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  Both.


Q.  Easy win?

SERGI BRUGUERA:  6-1, 7-5, and 6-3, 6-2.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT