VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 20, 1994
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You seemed to have difficulty with your serve today.  What was the problem?
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  I think the balls are very big and very heavy and it is difficult to win points easy and then my serve is not very strong and then the balls on the court is very slow and it doesn't help me, maybe, in my serve. 
 

Q.  The balls are heavier than last year?  Is it because of the weather conditions?
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  No, because it is heavier than last year and very soft; doesn't get effect and doesn't bounce so high so this ball is very, very bad. 
 

Q.  Sergi, last year you won Monte Carlo; then the French Open.  Now you have a lot of points to defend.  Do you feel any pressure over the next month and a half; especially?
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I have a lot of points to defend.  It is a little bit much difficult to play like this than to play if you don't have to defend, but if you want to be up and you want to win something, it is going to happen every year, so I have to get used to it and don't think about it. 
 

Q.  You had shoulder problems in Barcelona last week.  You weren't totally fit.  How are you now?
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Much better.  I still feel a little bit soreness sometimes, but it is much better. 
 

Q.  Sergi, the top four Spanish players are facing each other next two rounds and then it will be like a mini championship.  Have you noticed it and do you guys talk about it among yourselves?
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, we talk because it is funny, we play all four in the same tier, you know, but normally it is just so many Spanish players in the second round and it is normal that you play against one of them.  But not all four in a row.  Barcelona, happened the same, was like -- in the quarterfinals it was all four in the quarterfinals and before it was two more in -- and then in Estoril also the same, so it is pretty normal that we play against each other. 
 

Q.  Sergi, is it possible you might play at Wimbledon this year?
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Yeah, I am going to play Wimbledon. 
 

Q.  Can you just explain the difficult of changing your style from clay court of which you are obviously an expert to playing on grass, the difficulties involved there?
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think on grass, it is completely different.  All the other surfaces, when I play on indoor, I have very good results; on hard court too, but and I can play from baseline and any time I play well, I can beat all the players, almost.  But on grass, it is so different because all bad bounces and it is very fast and slippery and you cannot play from baseline and running.  Maybe you can play from baseline, trying for a winners, but not putting the ball, passing shots and it is -- I have to serve and volley and it is not my game and it is like not tennis on grass, so it is completely different. 
 

Q.  What is your opinion about the success of Spanish players on clay court?
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think it is coming from before last  years also we have a lot of success, but maybe now there is three or four more and maybe it is because we have very good formation when we start.  There is good academics; good coaches; and good trainers, and maybe Spanish persons have good character. 
 

Q.  Did you feel tired in the last two games of the match?
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  No, I was feeling a little bit before when I was -- 6-1 and when it started the second, I was a little bit tired because I slept just five hours and three o'clock in the morning I was awake and then I take half a pill that I never take in normal life for to sleep and then when I wake up, I was all the time sleeping and so tired and then when we start good rhythm, 5-Love, and then I start to feel very tired and a little bit -- I don't know the word -- with nausea and then I take a little bit of sugar and then I feel a little bit better and then at the end, I was very good again. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT