ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 1993
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Sergi, Andrei Medvedev just said it was a  perfect surface to play on even for somebody playing on  the baseline.  Would you agree with that?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I think it is better to play on clay or  hard court from baseline.  I don't think it is very  good to play baseline, because we are both baseliners,  and we lost in two sets, so.   
 

Q.  Edberg thinks something else, about playing.  Edberg plays--  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Serve and volley?   
 

Q.  Yes.  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  I don't think he should think the same like  Medvedev that he can play from baseline.  That is why  he was coming all the time.   
 

Q.  Because of his style or your style?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Maybe a little bit of both, no?  He is  better-- is better for him to play coming to the net to  me; not to play from baseline.   
 

Q.  You weren't here last year, but there was a  lot of talk about the fact that the court was a bit too  fast; that there was too much of advantage of people  serve and volleying.  Do you think it is a fair surface  even though you are a baseliner and it is more  difficult for you?  Do you have a chance to win on this  surface?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  I don't know if it is fair or not.  Only  thing I know it is very fast, this court and it is  difficult to play for the people who are playing from  baseline, but it is like this and you have to play with  the conditions you have.   
 

Q.  Just a general impressions of how Stefan  plays, volleying extremely well especially --  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  He played very, very well on his volley.  He  was coming in all the time.  I played second set very  well, the first set maybe was first time I played here  and indoors it is difficult for me to get used to, but  he was playing very fast, very good and every time the  volley was -- definitely, he put it away every time.  I  don't have a chance for the second shot.   
 

Q.  If there is no more questions in English we  will go to Spanish.   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT