ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1993
Sergi Bruguera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What do you think about your first match  against Edberg?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Considering the three players I could play  against, it doesn't matter one or the other.  Everybody  in my group is it very tough.   
 

Q.  And what about the late start of the match?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, this is something I don't know because  I never played at that time.  It will be very new for  me, and I'm not very sure about how will I react  against this circumstance.   
 

Q.  How do you feel playing the Masters for the  first time?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  I am very happy.  To be here among the eight  best players of the world is like an award after my  successful year.   
 

Q.  Did you play the season on the same surface  any other time?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  I don't know if the surface was exactly the  same, because they all are very close.  I only notice  if it's more or less fast or if the ball rebounds more  or less.  But I can't say very concretely.   
 

Q.  Is it fundamental here to have a good serve?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Yes, it's very much the most important  thing.  The one who has a good serve has a lot of  advantages to win.  I will try to do my best and my  return, and so maybe I can beat the serve of the other  player.  This will probably be the key of my matches.   
 

Q.  What did you think about Courier's clothes?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  It's his problem if he decided to dress  different from the others.  You can ask him.   
 

Q.  Many years ago Gomez said here in the Masters  that this championship should be change its surface  every year to make the possibilities more equal. What  do you think about this?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  What could I say?  I completely agree.  But  these are things that you will say and you will  propose, but you will never get.  In indoor there is  not one single Grand Slam tournament and, furthermore,  this surface is giving many advantages for example to  players like Sampras, Courier or Ivanisevic.  Everything Ivanisevic got in '93, he did it on fast  court.   
 

Q.  Did you think its surprising that a player  like Becker who was a champion here last year and,  furthermore, German, is not here this year?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I don't think it's strange.  If he is  not here it's because he didn't do a good season, and  that's it.  In fact, the last year he got to be here in  the very last moment, and he had a whole year to get  the same and he couldn't get it.   
 

Q. What are your plans after the Masters?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  I will be one week on holiday, and then I  will go to the Grand Slam Cup.   
 

Q.  And the Spanish national championship?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  It has an impossible date for me, and I had  it very clear that I could never play it.   
 

Q.  Why do you think they don't propose it on  other dates for example?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Because it's very hard to find a hole in the  calendar; there are very few weeks overall, if you  follow the circuit.  The players that don't follow the  circuit have for more possibilities and they play the  National Spanish Championship.   
 

Q.  What would you think about if they mark it  before Roland Garros?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Horrible.  It's the worse moment in the whole  year because it's when the circuit has more  concentration of important tournaments.   
 

Q.  How did you feel here during the practice?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  I noticed the strength of the serve of the  other player.  When you are in front of Ivanisevic or  Stich it's incredible, but in this surface you already  know it.  I am very happy to be here; I'm already  satisfied because it is exceptional and it is a very  nice end for my good seen.  Of course I will try to do  my best, but I know that if the others do also they are  bound to win.   
 

Q.  Do you think they will try for it?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  You try for it everywhere.  Here maybe you  have a special motivation and, in fact, you prepare  exclusively for this event, but in general you give the  best of yourself everywhere.   
 

Q.  Who is your favorite here?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Maybe the strongest ones are Stich and  Ivanisevic.  I would also name Sampras and Edberg.  The  last one because he's doing very well in the last  months of the season.   
 

Q.  Could you give a message to the Spanish  football team before its match in front of Denmark.  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  "Hello.  I am Sergi Bruguera, and I send you  from Frankfurt my hello and best of luck to qualify for  the World Series in the United States."   
 

Q.  What possibilities do you think the team has  to get that?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Very many, because they are playing very  well, and they have a very good team.  Denmark will be  a tough rival, and it will depend very much on who  scores first.   
 

Q.  Where did you practice before you came to  Frankfurt?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  In my club, but on cement.  It is clear that  if Spain is good on clay and not on cement, it's  because we're not used to hard courts and because we  don't have this kind of surface.  On Clay court, if you  do a mistake, you have time to recuperate, but on fast  courts you don't.  And when you change the type of  court you have also to change your mentality, your game  your strokes.  Some people can get a better adaptation,  and some others needs more matches for that.  And,  furthermore, on fast court a good serve doesn't give  you any option.   
 

Q.  Do you think that you have any chances  anyway?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, let's see.  It will be very tough.  The  only thing I can try is to do the best I can do, and  let's see what happens.   
 

Q.  We saw you practicing serve volley.  Will you  use that technique?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Well, I guess I will try everything, but it's  very clear that it's not my strongest point.   
 

Q.  What will be the key against Edberg?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  The passing.   
 

Q.  And against Ivanisevic or Sampras?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  The baseline strokes.   
 

Q.  Bernd Schuster said he had the intention to  come to watch the matches, and I think he's your  friend.  Would you like to see them here?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Yes, of course, I would like to see him here.   
 

Q.  Is it true that you are a fan of FC  Barcelona?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Yes, and when I can I see their matches,  although many times I have to see them on TV.  It is  hard when you travel so much to get your people to be  playing home just right when you are there.   
 

Q.  Do you like golf?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Not at all.  It is very slow and very  boring.  I prefer the sports of action.   
 

Q.  Why do you think you're not so popular out of  your country?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Because I rarely go to television shows.  There is where people get well-known.  But I don't like  those shows because I don't feel comfortable.   
 

Q.  Why is your father also your coach?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Because to grow up as a tennis player and as  a man at the same time opens many questions in your  mind, and it's good to have somebody you are very  confident with to talk to.   
 

Q.  Are you ambitious?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Every day more and more.   
 

Q.  If you could not be a tennis player, what  would you like to be?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  Anything in sports world.  I couldn't be  sitting and quiet in an office.   
 

Q.  Which is at this moment your level of game if  we compare it to Roland Garros?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  It's the same.  Only the type of surface;  it's very different.   
 

Q.  Are you in your country as famous as the  football players?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  I think that the most famous sportsman in  Spain is a cyclist called Indurain.  And after the  players of Football Club Barcelona, the soccer  players.  I'm only a tennis player, not a star.   
 

Q.  What do you think of grass?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  There are only two big tournaments on grass  in the circuit, but one of them is very important and  you have to go.   
 

Q.  Will you play Davis Cup in 1994?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  If the cup then calls me, of course I will.   
 

Q.  Which other memories will you have from 1993,  apart from Roland Garros?  
 
SERGI BRUGUERA:  My victory in Monte Carlo gave me a lot of  emotions, and also my first indoor final in Milan.  Also, my performance in Bourdeaux. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT