VIRGINIA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 7, 2017
Josh Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Virginia Tech - 23, Boston College - 10   
 Q.  You don't have CJ tonight, and you're missing Cam.  What's going through your head, and what do you think about the younger guys stepping up on the offense?  
JOSH JACKSON: I wouldn't say too much, it's just next guy up.  Savoy and Kumah obviously had good games, they stepped up, and I had seen them do that in practice all week long, all season long, so got great -- we have good depth at receiver, so I wasn't too worried.   
 Q.  You hit Kumah on 3rd down passes that moved the chains.  Is that something he does regularly in practice?  
JOSH JACKSON: I mean, we haven't done much 3rd down versus defense lately, but he was just the guy, my reads took me to him, and he made some great catches.   
 Q.  How essential was he tonight stepping up with both Cam and CJ out?  
JOSH JACKSON: He was big.  You know, obviously for 3rd downs, everything like that, he's a great blocker also on the perimeter, so I think he had a great game overall.   
 Q.  How important was it to get that quick strike after they miss the field goal?  
JOSH JACKSON: Yeah, that's very big for like momentum and everything like that.  The pick and then we got a good stop and then we go drive it down the field, so that's big time definitely for our offense, and glad that we could do it.   
 Q.  Is it important obviously to kind of strike first, get to score first?  You've done that in some of the other games against maybe lesser opponents, but you kind of started a little slow at times.  Was it important to jump out --  
JOSH JACKSON: Yeah, definitely to get in your groove, get started off pretty well.  Well, not on the first drive, obviously, but after our defense had a great stop and we were able to drive the field, I think that gets your momentum going, gets your confidence up, and I think that helped our offense.   
 Q.  Any disappointment in the second half not being able to punch it in on a couple of red zone trips?  
JOSH JACKSON: Yeah, I got two opportunities and I couldn't get in.  That happens, but I don't think we were too worried about it, we were just going to keep going on to the next play.  At the end of the day, we did win the game, so I feel good about that.   
 Q.  They said there was some shared responsibility in the five sacks tonight.  What was his message to you in the game on some of those sacks?  
JOSH JACKSON: I didn't really talk to him about it.  Maybe one I could have got out of.  7 is a great player.  He had a pretty good grip on me.  It may be the way I evaded wasn't too great, but I'll look at the film and see how I can get better.   
 Q.  You're halfway through your first season.  How do you think you've played so far?  
JOSH JACKSON: Well, thankfully our team is 5-1, 1-1 in conference, and that's all I really focus on.  I don't really care about my stats.  At the end of the day, it's just about winning, so 5-1 going into a bye week is pretty good, so I think I'm doing all right then.   
 Q.  I'm guessing it's probably pretty easy for you to keep an even keel after Clemson, right?  Some people get high for those kinds of games and then -- how did you feel coming into this game?  
JOSH JACKSON: Coming into this game?   
 Q.  Yeah, in terms of shaking that loss off.  
JOSH JACKSON: No, I was ready, just the next week.  What happened happened, and just ready to play better and just be a good quarterback for my team.  I mean, if you focus too much on the last week, it's going to end up beating you.  I thought we moved on well as a team.   
 Q.  Did you get your pregame moment with lefty?  
JOSH JACKSON: I didn't get to.  I didn't get to say hello to him, but I'm sure I'll text him or he'll text me pretty soon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT