NCAA WOMEN'S REGIONALS: AUSTIN
December 9, 2016
Kirsten Bernthal-Booth
Lydia Dimke
Lauren Smith
Marysa Wilkinson
Jaali Winters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll start off with a statement from the head coach.  Coach if you want start off with your thoughts on the match tonight.   
KIRSTEN BERNTHAL BOOTH: It's want incredible match.  You know, we like the five-setters, clearly.  But I feel for Michigan.  You know, what a great team.  What a great season they have had.  Great coaches.  They gave us all that we could handle and we really tried to lock in on Cole and Kieffer-Wright.  I thought we did a pretty good job trying to contain them.  We knew they would get their kills but I thought our team did a nice job following game plan.   
I told them that I just -- I can't say enough about these young women and the thing is, I really like them off the court, too, which was a nice thing as a coach.  They are outstanding student athletes.  They exemplify what we want in college sports of high character young women who take care of things in the classroom.   
Man, they are winners.  Pretty excited, making history for our program and we are excited for another opportunity tomorrow night.   
 Q.  For the players, you've been pretty resilient of late, especially the last sets, you seem to enjoy.  USC was similar.  What did you guys tell each other coming off the course of that and how were you able to overcome the deficit?  
LAUREN SMITH: I would say every game we come out ^  we re-set 0-0 and what we do, how we start off is what really counts.   
We have a lot of trust on this team and the girls were amazing and aggressive.  I would just say the synergy overall is what we really count on.   
MARYSA WILKINSON: Yeah, the passes in the past -- it's a new game.  Like Lauren said, it's 0-0.  We've always been pretty aggressive and that's what we did.   
 Q.  For any of the players, what's your reaction to making history?  
LYDIA DIMKE: I think we're all kind of speechless.  I mean, it has not really set in yet but I think.  It's just so much fun and we've had such a fun journey and get to go play for each other and an amazing coaching staff, we just don't want it to end, every time we step on the court because we like don't want to not have practice next week.   
JAALI WINTERS: We like winning.   
 Q.  A contrast with this time last year, when you lose to USC, your season is over, and felt like you could have gone further.  Just contrast the two feelings.  
LAUREN SMITH: I would say that our goal is to leave it all out on the court, every time we step out there, it's an opportunity, but also we are playing for each other.   
I'm just really proud of how we came out tonight and I think that we have a bright future in front of us.   
 Q.  Why is a team that is so resilient, winning three straight in the tournament -- how have you found that success?  
LYDIA DIMKE: We play so well together.  I feel like I sound like a broken record but we just love each other so much and it's genuine.  It's not fake.   
We just touch each other.  So even in intense situations, we don't have to play more than we need to because no matter who is behind us or who is on the court, we can trust in them and I think we just have such good camaraderie that we just enjoy it, every second of it.   
JAALI WINTERS: Yeah, we are really doing really good in five sets but I'm really tired of going to five sets.  I don't know, something changes, something clicks and everyone just has the right mind-set.   
 Q.  What is it about Marysa's game?  She's the one that gets the least questions, doesn't get enough focus from the opposing defense, been very efficient, dominant in the tournament.  What in your guys's minds do you see from her?  
LAUREN SMITH: Yeah, I would say she's killing it, no pun intended.   
She comes out ready to work hard every day.  I mean, she's always hitting at a high clip, always supporting her teammates and just wonderful to play next to.  We help each other out on and off the court.  So as long as we can keep that going --   
LYDIA DIMKE: I think Marysa is such a gamer.  She's probably one of the most underrated middle -- any time, no matter if it's the first point or the last point or if it's 18-18 against Kansas, I know that I can always look to her to put the ball down.  I mean, she brings it every time.   
JAALI WINTERS: She's a baller.   
MARYSA WILKINSON: I would just like to add -- (laughter) -- teammate.   
 Q.  What was the mood in the locker room after the second set?  
JAALI WINTERS: We were vibing, having a good time in the locker room.  We just needed to have a good mind-set and stay positive and that's what we did.   
 Q.  Two or three sets -- what was the key against her?  
JAALI WINTERS: Yeah, we thought we ex-suited our game plan on all the hitters really well but especially Cole, just talking about her and knowing where she was at all times on the floor, making sure we were getting four hands in front of her all the time.   
MARYSA WILKINSON: Not just about blocking her and stopping her but slowing her down and I thought we did pretty well at that.   
 Q.  The block was big for you tonight -- felt like an advantage for you on paper.  
LAUREN SMITH: Well, we wanted take them out of system, and Cole's an amazing player and just key on her, and as long as we took care of things on our side, I think just happened.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT