NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
May 29, 2015
Kelly Inouye-Perez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Michigan 10 - UCLA 4  
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by UCLA head coach Kelly Inouye-Perez and student-athlete Ally Carda and Mysha Sataraka.   COACH INOUYE-PEREZ: You know, I think the best part about coming to the World Series is every team you play is a quality team. And Michigan is an outstanding team from literally offensively and defensively and just well coached all around.  So we knew it would be a tough game tonight.  And things didn't go our way as we'd like to have them finish.  But the best part about where you're are at in this tournament is now you're in a situation where there's no other options.  Have a great deal of faith in this team.  Great fight.  They play together.  They have each other's backs, and we're not done yet.   THE MODERATOR: Questions.   Q.  Question that's not about tonight's game, but particularly because of where you stand in the field, Kelly (Inouye-Perez), and because Ally being a pitcher, you had the accident or you played Missouri, do you think that pitchers should be wearing masks.  I've been getting a lot of e-mail on that.  And it's split.  COACH INOUYE-PEREZ: I actually answered that question in the press conference earlier.  And this is my stance.  A mask is used when needed.  It's been an injury, prevention, if somebody gets hit, and there's a concussion, then it's mandated for them to be able to continue to play to wear the mask. I said that I would never prevent a player from wearing a mask, but I don't believe it should be mandated.  So that's just my take on it in the sport.  But, like I say, I'm not here to take the stand on what kids shouldn't do.  I just don't believe it should be mandated for all.  Does that answer your question?  With my opinion.  I don't know if I answered your question.   Q.  Coach, speaking of Michigan, they're obviously known for their home runs, but really was impressed when you see them in person, aggressive base running, but smart base running.  Some teams run themselves out of games and I think they ran themselves in the back and forth.  I don't know if you picked up on that and seeing them the limited times you've been able to.  But speak about how important that is for winning a game.  COACH INOUYE-PEREZ: I think what great teams do they take advantage of the little things.  We had some miscues on defense tonight.  And I wouldn't have anticipated, some of the shots that were hit.  But we did, we had some miscues that added to their aggressive base running that allowed them to be more successful. Straight up, that tying run was out at the plate, if we don't cut that ball.  I couldn't tell you why that ball was cut.  But it's kind of part of the experience of getting that under your belt. And then there were a couple of other miscues in general but that's what great teams do.  Michigan was very aggressive, literally both offensively on the bases and it definitely helped them be more successful tonight.   Q.  Talk a little bit about, you've been a part of a team that's come out of the losing bracket and went on to win it.  What do you tell your team from your past experience about looking forward and how they have a lot of softball to play?  COACH INOUYE-PEREZ: I was talking to Ally (Carda) and Mysha (Sataraka) about that.  That's one of the best things about being a Bruin is we have such a wealth of history that says everything is possible. There's a saying that we have in our program that is very true, whatever it takes to win. And when your back's against the wall, it's an amazing thing that can happen, when you get great athletes that are committed to fighting to the last pitch.  So I've been very fortunate to be a part of it.  I've seen it lived it and I believe this team can do it too.   Q.  Could you give us kind of a testimony on the type of player Ally Carda has been in terms of the two-way player, there's a lot of talk about Lauren Haeger and the 70 home runs and 70 wins.  Ally has two big home runs this season for you, 43.  Keilani Ricketts.  Jennie Finch was here today, where she ranks.  I know Ally says she looks at Lisa Fernandez in that role too?  COACH INOUYE-PEREZ: Absolutely.  To be able to have access to the two-way player as you said, offensively and defensively, Ally hasn't been just for the last two years, she's been, for the program, she's been literally a go-to and we were in a place where we hadn't been as successful, and Ally Carda is literally the reason we're here. We're in Oklahoma City because of her ability to impact the field both offensively and defensively, but beyond that her leadership.  She backs it with her work ethic.  At the end of the day, this team buys into being Bruins and working hard because they have a great role model in Ally Carda. The one thing that's been unfortunate for Ally is we haven't truly been able to have a pitching staff that has been able to have her back.  Paige McDuffee has undergone several injuries. And Johanna Grauer, she was on the Junior National Team and was injured. I'm not here to make excuses at the end of the day.  We're here because Ally Carda is the one.  She's impacted us not just offensively, but defensively and her leadership.  And you could ask anybody on the team, this team has her back. The program has her back.  She's left her mark in the history books.  At the end of the day, that's all we can ask for. As Coach Wooden says, the satisfaction of doing the best you possibly can is through competitive excellence.  If you ask anyone on our team, who truly defines competitive excellence, they would take Ally Carda.   THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT