THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2014
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  What's your thoughts about teeing off first on Thursday?  DAVID HOWELL: Yeah, thrilled.  First things first, it's great.  I played in the first group before.  I'm not sure if I hit the first shot in Troon.  However, at the Open there's always a chance you're going to get an early or late one.  As early as that is I don't think you'll find anyone complaining.   Q.  Looks like you're going to be up about 4 a.m.  DAVID HOWELL: Yeah, 4 o'clock, roughly speaking.  And that won't be too far away.  I'll probably have to cut my practice a bit short now, for that reason.  So I can get as much rest as I can.  I'm pleased as it's a good thing.  And it's a thrill, and it's nice to tee off first.  It's nothing major, but nice to get it out of the way.   Q.  It gives you the chance to go out and post a low score?  DAVID HOWELL: Well, one of us at the end of the round is going to be leading.  So we'll be all trying hard to make sure we're leading going into the clubhouse.  You can't argue with that, and you always want an early round to be early.   Q.  You've just played a practice round, what's your thoughts about the course?  DAVID HOWELL: Good.  It's very different than it was in 2006.   Q.  You just played the course?  DAVID HOWELL: It's very fast.  Looking good.  It's very different than it was back in 2006, compared to the moment.  Maybe less green; exactly what you'd expect. It's looking good.  It was very different than it was when we were last year.  It's in great shape.  Exactly what you'd expect.  It's not brutally tough, rough-wise.  And it will be a good Open test.   Q.  Given you are first out, do you change your practice preparation?  DAVID HOWELL: I do, I might play early Wednesday now, to get a feel how it plays at that time of day.  So that might just change things with this early tee.  But luckily I've now got enough warning to work these things out.   Q.  Did you play in 2006?  And how is the course compared to back then?  DAVID HOWELL: It's very different, but it is only Monday morning, of course.  There's a lot of time yet for the course to change.   Q.  The Old Course will always be special after winning the Dunhill last October.  How does Liverpool compare to the courses you like on the rota?  DAVID HOWELL: I played a lot of social golf here over the years, including a few company days, over the last three or four years.  And I've seen a few friendly faces already.  So that's nice.  It's obviously always different coming to a Major championship like this.  So that doesn't give me any advantage over the other guys.  Great course.  I enjoy it.  It's a good test, and it's a great venue.  And that's important, as well.   Q.  What club do you think you'll be using on the first tee Thursday?  DAVID HOWELL: Probably a 3-wood.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT