WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2004
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JAMES CRAMER:  We have David Howell with us this afternoon, currently at 12-under par in the clubhouse.  David, good round today.  Perhaps you can get us started by just a general comment about your play today before we go into questions.
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, I played very nicely, drove the ball very well until the last really.  It was just a really solid round of golf.  I'm delighted really.  I played well the first couple of days and just didn't score as well as I could have, which has been a nice change because in recent months I've played well and haven't scored as well as I could.  I stayed patient and played well today.
Q.  Are you a very good really bad weather player?
DAVID HOWELL:  Well, I've done well this year.  I've done well at the Dunhill Links before in inclement weather I would say, but I wouldn't say I'm delighted to see it raining and cold and windy.  You just get on with it.  I couldn't really say yes or no to that, but I guess it doesn't -- I don't look forward to it, but it doesn't worry me, either.
Q.  You're the sort that would grind it out tomorrow if it was bad as we expect it to be?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, oh, absolutely, yeah.
Q.  Did you ever think or predict what the winning score would be?
DAVID HOWELL:  Not really.  I've only just seen that Ernie is at 14.  Don't know how he's going to finish.  He could get to 16, 17 if he finishes strong.  If he comes back one, then obviously it's going to be a lot tighter.  We don't know what the weather is going to do.  We don't know if we're playing tomorrow or Monday.  So it could be 20, could be 15.  I'll just be going out there, do what I've done the first three days, play as well as I can and see what happens.
Q.  Did doing well in the Ryder Cup boost your confidence?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah.  I mean, playing in a big event and doing well, it doesn't make you a better player overnight.  It doesn't guarantee you're going to play well, but it's more experience in the memory bank for certain situations.  You know, I played pretty well on Saturday and hit some good shots, and I played very poorly on Sunday, so you can make of that what you want really, but there's always going to be times when you haven't hit a good shot, and then you're going to think back to other times when you've hit good shots in certain situations.  It's going to happen as a golfer.
Q.  Are you still putting in those swing changes you told us about?
DAVID HOWELL:  I'm working hard.  It really got away from me for a little bit, and I really ground it out to make the team in the end.  But this week I just seem to be getting the club much more in line, changed not the rhythm of the back swing but the timing of my back swing slightly, which is something I've tried to do before and had very little success at it, and this week for some reason, it's worked a lot better and I found it a lot easier to do.  It's the right stuff for me to be doing.

I'm certainly swinging it as well as I can be in general this week.
JAMES CRAMER:  Should we go over the particulars of your round, your birdies.
DAVID HOWELL:  I had 8-iron into the 2nd, 20-foot left of the hole, which is where we aimed it.  Made a nice putt there obviously.

The par 5, hit a beautiful 3-wood, I was right on the limit of being able to get up, about 250 to the front, made just as good a shot as I could and just missed my eagle putt from 20 feet.

Hit a lovely shot on the next, which is a bonus, just came up short and right.  Good bonus there.

Again, lovely 3-wood to 10, 20-foot, two putts.

Holed a 22-footer up a ridge on 11.

Then I hit a 6-iron three foot on 12. And chipped to three feet on 17.
JAMES CRAMER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT