ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 11, 2014
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   David, 4‑under par after 11.   Tell us just how difficult that Back 9 is playing.  
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah.   It's brutal, actually.   I mean amazing.   13 yesterday, I think, Rory knocked it on the green, and I hit driver, 2‑iron today.   
That's links golf for you.   It's a strong‑‑ it's a decent breeze.   It's not ridiculous, but when it switches, yeah, it just makes such a huge difference.   You're always going to make your score on the Front 9 today.   I managed to do nicely and then turned beautifully 10 and 11, played those just brilliantly.   
A slight lapse in concentration on the par‑5, twelfth, and just hit a terrible lay up, which is purely mental, I think, really because I was swinging the club really well.   And that cost me a shot.  
And then you had to sort of batten down the hatches coming in, and would have been nice to have just holed that putt on the last after a beautiful chip, so that's going to make dinner taste a little bit worse, but 1‑under is still a decent score.  
   
 Q.   Your last victory came on a links course.   What is it about this format that gets you going?  
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah.   I wouldn't say I've done well, you know, particularly over the years on links golf courses.   I've played well at the Dunhill links, it's a bit different in the autumn.   This is an Open championship golf, and I actually haven't done too well in that competition when I've played over the years.  
But this is a great course, and you've just gotta hit the ball well and control your ball flight.   I'm quite comfortable hitting soft shots and just near knocking it in there and low, under the wind, I'm comfortable having a go at that, and I've played quite a few of those so far and I've played them well.   So I'm coming into nice form at a nice time of year.  
   
 Q.   I know you're a little bit disappointed with that finish, but it will feel good in an hour, I promise you.  
DAVID HOWELL:   I hope you're right.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT