DEUTSCHE BANK - SAP OPEN TPC OF EUROPE
May 20, 2004
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  David, well played, a round of 65, one of the three leaders after the first round, and that's two tournaments running you've led after the first round.  What's the battle plan from here on in?
DAVID HOWELL:   Well, I played better than I did the first round, but playing very nicely.
GORDON SIMPSON:  What happened in the first round after the good start?
DAVID HOWELL:  I played reasonably well the next couple of days, nothing much happened.  I got to 9 under the last day, which was still obviously reasonable for six holes, looking to maybe finish Top 5, nothing went right, got me frustrated really and finished with a couple of bogeys, so that was a disappointing week.
GORDON SIMPSON:  And as for today, everything went right?
DAVID HOWELL:   Absolutely.  I had a good week last week.  Saw my coach, didn't work on much, not much was said which was great.

I got off to a great start, just straightforward chip and putt off the green, and then eagled the third, and that set the tone.  I hit a great 6 iron to three feet, very nice.
Q.  The conversation all day here has been about the long putter, Ernie has talked about wanting it banned, what are your feelings?
DAVID HOWELL:   Ban it.  (Laughter.)

No, I think two hands, I don't think you should be able to place the club against your chest or your belly.

I've tried to use the belly putter.  I think I could use it reasonably well.  I putt well anyway.  I don't think it's going to improve my putting, but I don't think it     it just doesn't seem right to me that you should be raising the club against your body and using it as a point of anchor.  I think part of the art of the game is being able to hold your nerve over short putts and I just think that sometimes takes away that slight edge.
Q.  I was going to say, if the pros were allowed to vote on this, how do you think it would go?
DAVID HOWELL:   I think it would be banned.
Q.  What did you do so well today?
DAVID HOWELL:   I drove it very well.  I hit one bad drive and managed to save my par on 7 with a wedge and a putt.  So really, just a really solid round of golf.  I'm not sure how many greens I missed in regulation, not too many really.  Had great iron shots.  All in all, just a great round.
Q.  Some of us feel, maybe harshly that you have not quite trained on as we hoped you might, is that a view you share of yourself or are we being unfair?
DAVID HOWELL:   Well, no, I would like to have done better obviously.  I think, I'm hoping, that the reason I haven't is primarily my injuries.  I got to my highest World Ranking position two years ago and then broke my arm and struggled.  Then I came back last year with a solid year and I worked hard on the swing and to change that.  And I always thought I'd play my best golf in the 30s.  A lot of guys are playing great golf in their early 20s.  So, you know, if I do do that, then I'm going to  be okay.
Q.  What was your best ranking?
DAVID HOWELL:   I think I just got to about 87 or something after the Johnnie Walker, what was that in 2002?  But no, I agree, obviously, after winning Dubai five years ago, you'd like to have another win by now and a bit more.  But if you had asked me ten years ago, would I take this in the first nine years of my career, would I be happy, and after five years, possibly not.
Q.  Is it a huge handicap to be trying to get into the Ryder Cup team when you're not in the majors and not in the World Championships?
DAVID HOWELL:   Well, it obviously it is.    Yes, I think it is.  There's some big money there.  You know, I'm obviously going to try to make the team, but it's not the forefront of my mind anyway.  I just see it as a nice opportunity if I play great over the summer and I work my way onto the team, but I won't worry about the team or not.  If you win one European Tour event, you'd have more than one under your belt if you did make the team everybody, we are striving to play in all of the big events.  Definitely makes things easier if you to get them .  That being said, they don't give you money for nothing for playing in the majors, but you still have to play well.  They don't give you much for doing it.
Q.  Inaudible?
DAVID HOWELL:  Played soccer, Manning Pete Golf Club (ph).  I worked it in for about six months, 2001 maybe, and then we left, we stayed out and I've been working with him for about 18 months now.
GORDON SIMPSON:  David, well done again.  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT