ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2014
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   David, a double bogey at the fourth, 2‑over par at that stage.   Two eagles.   Not often you do that.   Tell us about those eagles.  
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah.   They were a delight, actually.   I made seven‑‑ going back in time here, seven on the 16th last week, and then I very nearly made 7 on the 4th today and holed a good putt for the double.   And I just wanted to get at least one back in the next two holes, and sure enough, the eagle, lovely 3‑wood to the 6, about 20 foot.   Rolled that one in.  
And then obviously got through the Front 9 obviously, get on to the Back 9, which is still not easy, obviously because it's so blowy downwind, but obviously it plays shorter, and yeah, the next par‑5 at 12, is it, 5‑iron just came out perfectly.   Just nice bounce.   Needed a bit of luck.   But it was a nice shot, came to about eight feet, rolled that one in, so happy days.  
   
 Q.   How about the playing conditions and the way the course has been set up today?  
DAVID HOWELL:   Well, they set it up very fairly.   The forward tee on the Front 9, which you need on a couple of the holes, 9, especially.   
But I mean it's a tough course.   You know, you've gotta hit it straight, and the rough is brutal.   If you stray off the straight and narrow, anything can happen.   Exactly what happened on the 4th.   I just tried to hack one out from four yards off the fairway.   I moved it six yards, and that brought me a double bogey.   So that can happen in a heartbeat.  
But it's a great course, very fair and a really good challenge.   It had a good ring to it, Royal Aberdeen, at the Scottish Open venue, and I tell you what, it's proven be to be a great decision.  
   
 Q.   Lasts week you became the second youngest man to clock up 500 events on the European Tour.   Sam Torrance holds the record of 706.   You're only 39.   You're going to have him, aren't you?  
DAVID HOWELL:   I saw him actually, and I said exactly that.   He said, I'm coming back if you do.   He's obviously quite proud of that.   But no, it's been a lovely 19, 20 years.   You never know how long you're going to be out here.   It's just a delight to get out here in the first place, and yeah, never in a million years did I think I'd still be here 20 years later.   Hopefully many more years to come.   It's a nice place to spend your career, good workplace and a lot of fun sometimes.   
   
 Q.   Great.   Well done.  
DAVID HOWELL:   Cheers.   It's nice to be back up here.   This is just a fantastic event, and the Scottish Open.   It's great history, and this is a really good venue, a new venue for us, and I think it's going to go down really well with the guys, and today was a just a good links golfing day, and I was very pleased with my 3‑under.  
   
 Q.   And it is a course that compares with some of the best that we play more regularly?  
DAVID HOWELL:   I think it does, yeah.   It's a bit shorter, but that's probably no bad thing the week before the Open.   Maybe that's why it's not on an Open road.   It's not a particularly big piece of land, but it's a fantastic golf course.   It's very narrow in places, and if you get out of position you can run up a number in no time.   So you want to nudge it around, avoid those disasters, and there is a score to be had, but you've gotta play well for it.  
   
 Q.   Stay warm.   Stay dry.  
DAVID HOWELL:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT