ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 28, 2013
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well done, 63, but the math wasn't so good. 
DAVID HOWELL:   Well, wasn't really keeping‑‑ you try and just stay in the moment and not keep score obviously, but I thought it was 64.   I thought I had the birdie attempt on the last for 63, but I just tapped that one in for par, and thought, that wasn't bad, 64 and my caddie said, 63, pretty sure.   So that was a nice final bonus mentally.

Q.   That must be a lovely feeling, the Old Course, to shoot a score like that, one of the great days?
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, it really was.   And the scoring has been so low this week, Peter Uihlein yesterday with a 69 around Kingsbarns, the weather conditions have allowed some amazing scoring and I missed the boat a little bit yesterday having got off to such a great start at Carnoustie.   Stayed patient, started off with a couple pars today, and finally birdie, birdie, eagle and I was off and running and you fancy your chances at that stage, getting to 5‑ or 6‑under, but obviously 9 is something that doesn't happen all that often. 
As always with St. Andrews, it's normally a little tougher coming in, so I'm really pleased I managed to play the back nine in 3‑under.

Q.   You've given yourself a chance for a really big day tomorrow.   You've been putting yourself into position at the weekend, making cut after cut after cut and now it's the time to kick on and what a great place to do it?
DAVID HOWELL:   Obviously we are in the mix again, and that's all you can keep doing.   Tomorrow might be my day; it might not.   But if I keep putting myself in with a chance to win, I'm sure some silverware would come my way, and it will be a real thrill when it does. 
I've won in fine style at times in my career, and it's been a good few years since that's happened.   So the main thing for me is I'm playing great golf again, I'm enjoying my golf, and of course, I'd love to win.   But getting yourself in the last couple of groups on Sunday is where we all want to be and looks like I'm going to be there this week.   So I should go out there and hopefully enjoy it. 

Q.   What did you do with the eagle? 
DAVID HOWELL:   Rescue to six feet. 

Q.   How far did you hit the rescue club? 
DAVID HOWELL:   240. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT