ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 6, 2013
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What is your verdict after three tortuous days around here?  
DAVID HOWELL:   Well, in great position, 4‑under par, so we are going to have a shot at it with a round to go, which is great news, two years in a row I've been in that situation, and it was a long time before that that I played well here.   For some reason, it's become a course that I'm feeling quite comfortable on.  
   
 Q.   I know we have not spoken on previous days, but they have been good scores, as well, to build up to this position.   
DAVID HOWELL:   Had a poor finish yesterday which was disappointing but obviously as we all know, you can do that in a heartbeat around here at Paris, National, that's what the course is all about, trouble around every corner.   
The course has never been better, and it's as fair as it's ever been.   You've got to hit the ball down the fairway and on the green, and if you do that, the greens are perfect, you can make birdies.   If you don't, you're going to get in all sorts of bother.   By and large, I managed to keep it down the middle.  
   
 Q.   Nobody runs away with anything at this tournament, the leaders, however they finish, will be in touching distance.   
DAVID HOWELL:   And obviously you never know what's going to happen over there, the closing holes.   Obviously people can drop a lot of shots very quickly, so you do always get the feeling that you are never quite out of it, as well; if you are having to play the last four in 2‑under, which is not impossible, but you can make up so much ground.   
It's an exciting venue, and it's brilliant.   It's probably the best venue on our tour for a professional golf tournament.   And with the weather and the crowds, it's going to be a great day.   
   
 Q.   Appropriate it's a Ryder Cup venue for 2018?  
DAVID HOWELL:   I think every group that plays the last few holes, every day we talk about how amazing that's going to be in four or six years' time, whenever it is, and you can just imagine how many people you can get around these last four holes, it could be just absolutely incredible.   The Ryder Cup is a great event and it will be no better than when it's here.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT