ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2013
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVID HOWELL:   In the end I played beautifully today.   It's a classic case of one bad hole.   I felt good out there and the most annoying thing was I thought I hit a beautiful shot to the 13th.   It just came up four or five yards short of where I thought it was going to go and it all went wrong from there.   
Disastrous effort on the greens.   I putted beautifully all week, and then once I missed the first one, you know, two‑and‑a‑half foot lie down the hill, there's an ounce of nerves on that one, and I did make a poor stroke.  
And the pressure piles on, one back, and we're all human and you say, don't 4‑putt, and sure enough, you have done.   So try as I might to keep that final negative thought out I didn't quite manage it.  
I was quite proud the way I came back from that to be honest.   I played the last four holes pretty well.   Burnt the edge twice for birdie and obviously had a good chance there at the last, so a couple of those had dropped, would have felt a bit better.  
   
 Q.   So you got it out of the mind quickly enough to not think, this could have been, this could have been.  
DAVID HOWELL:   You never get it completely out, but it's your job to put it behind you as best you can.   And Steve did a great job, my caddie.   He really got straight on me on the next tee and said, come on.   
I backed off my tee shot, there was an ounce of anger stood over the tee shot on the next and I managed to banish that from my mind and rip one down the middle, and that kind of got me back on it.   
Yeah, your mind, you're 1‑under for the day which is never disastrous, but if feels that way if you want to focus on the fact that I was 5‑under.   It's a great opportunity missed to really have a good effort at the last couple holes to win a tournament.   
But it didn't come from anything other than just trying to hit good shots and sometimes crap happens.   
   
 Q.   And you did start off supremely.   
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, beautiful.   I was very comfortable out there, all the way through, more comfortable than I've been the last couple times I've been up there; France and Australia and that was pleasing and going into the back nine, felt great, played 10 and 11 beautifully.   
Mistroked my tee shot on 12, but I was just feeling great.   13 came as such a shock to the system.   Could have knocked me right off course.   Proud of the way it didn't do that, but gutted the fact that I haven't.   
   
 Q.   Bodes well for the season, doesn't it?   
DAVID HOWELL:   It does.   I've had a nice start to the season now, 12th previous event before Christmas and then we're going to be sixth here.   So it's a good start to the year.     Belief is rising by the week, and feeling good, my game is in good shape.   Obviously would have felt that bit better if we would have not had the one hole but we did.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT