ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2013
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, lovely to feel like you're right in the mix.   This is the first really big tournament of the year.   I've never really played well here, either, a couple of Top‑20s I think maybe, but certainly not been on my list of favourite tournaments from my own performance perspective.
But I live just down the road in the winter in Dubai so I have quite a few friends.   So it would be a little to make a run for the title tomorrow afternoon.   I guess Justin has that in his own hands a little bit, if he has a strong finish today he might put a bit of space between himself and the rest of us.
But I'm in there nicely on 8‑under and if I can have a great day tomorrow, obviously I can post a very good total.

Q.   It's been awhile since you've been in the winner's circle.   Is the feeling still there of how to get it done on a Sunday?
DAVID HOWELL:   I think so.   My last real chance was in Paris last year and we all know, if you know anything about European Tour golf, Paris National, you can have all sorts of trouble on that course under pressure, or any day for that matter, and I handled it pretty well there.   Ended up two or three shy of the winning total, but it wasn't because I wasn't prepared.   Just the way the day panned out, a couple of guys played really well. 
I've played really consistently for the best part of the year, eight, nine months, I've only missed one cut in 21 events now or something, so I'm playing nicely.   I'm playing some of the best golf I ever have really. 
I'm just coming from a low position and it's hard to fight your way back up there but I'm doing it bit by bit.   And obviously a big finish or even a win in one of these tournaments in the Middle East would go a long way to jumping me over a few people and right back to where I want to be. 

Q.   If you look at the round today, you were bogey‑free but coming home, you were not able to make another birdie.   Do you kick yourself slightly for that?
DAVID HOWELL:   Well, I only kick myself on 18, missing the fairway with my lay‑up there, first real poor swing of the day.   Hit some nice shots coming in.   Had a great chance coming in on 14, miss‑read that one, and burnt the edge on 16, 17, and had a good look at birdie on 18.   So a couple better, for sure would have been nice but felt like I played well enough.
FastScripts by ASAP Sports ...







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT