ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2013
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on that? 
DAVID HOWELL:   Well, good score really.   I drove it poorly. 
So to get around there in 3‑under driving it poorly was a miracle, but delightful, shall we say, which is a bit of a surprise because I've been driving it nicely in the warm‑ups and practise. 
So where the errant driving came from, I don't know, but funnily enough, had a chat with my coach last night and said to myself that this course can get on top of you if you don't drive it well, if you let it mentally.   Putted beautifully, iron play was good, so all in all delighted.

Q.   A lot of scrambling going on? 
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, not so much in terms of around the greens to be fair but just not really in position an awful lot of the time.   Not terrible, terrible stuff but this rough's really thick.   You can easily feel like you're hacking up towards the green a few times, which I had to do.   But you know, can't be that bad because I shot 3‑under.

Q.   This is beautiful conditions in many ways and the wind is nothing like as strong as it was previous days?
DAVID HOWELL:   It's a tough course and you haven't got a straight line to hit the fairways and some awkward angles on the tee shots, as well. 
The rough's grown in, and the bunkers‑‑ it's awkward angles is what I'm trying to say basically.   Where you feel like there should be rough‑‑ there isn't, because they have grown the rough in to make it a little bit more difficult for us and that's awkward on the eye and where you feel like you want to be hitting it, and you can't. 
Generally as the week goes on, it can soften a bit and the tees can go forward and the scoring generally gets a bit better, so I'm delighted to have gotten around with a good score on the first day.

Q.   And you have been coming here for quite a few years so I've seen the maturity; we used to have 22‑, 21‑under par. 
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, but it doesn't look like it.   I can remember the first time I came here, I couldn't work out how the guys were doing that, because I certainly wasn't.   I was the other way. 
But yeah, the rough's just really thick.   The best guys in the world, if they hit it really well, they are going to shoot low scores because they are playing from the short grass.   The greens are perfect and they are fairly easy to read, so there's a score to be had there if you can get in position off the tee but as you know, four days with a brisk wind, that's not always easy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT