ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 19, 2012
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you tell me a little bit about your round and how you went? 
DAVID HOWELL:   Golf off to a lovely start really, birdied 10 and 11, and then I think 14 and 15.   Was off and running really nicely which you want to do on your early morning start with perfect greens.   Then I played very nicely after that, but finished with whatever it was, 13 pars or something.   So in some ways, quite a strange round. 
I had one really nice save on the 16th, I holed a long putt for par.   That kept the round going but had a good few birdie chances, as well, coming in and just couldn't quite convert. 
So you know, I think what did I shoot, 68, was probably the worst I could have done today, which is always‑‑ not such a nice feeling but it's always pleasing.   Gives you confidence. 

Q.   And you commented on the greens; a few players have been saying that they are quite tough, quite undulating, but they are set up quite nicely for you? 
DAVID HOWELL:   Well, the greens are great.   They are running pretty fast now.   They are difficult quicker today than they were yesterday.   In the morning, they are near perfect, lovely pace, but they are firm and undulating. 
If you get yourself out of position, you get yourself in all sorts of trouble.   But if you keep the ball in position, you give yourself plenty of looks at birdie.   It's a great golf course and I think all of the pros will be enjoying it this week.

Q.   Have you been out to Perth and played this course before?
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, many years ago.   I was here, I can't remember when it was but the last time the tournament was here, I think I played.   It's a bit different now, a few changes along the way. 
I couldn't remember much about it to be honest with you.   It was a bit of a blank canvas for me this week which is no bad thing.   I think you'll find everyone is loving it.   The changes are fantastic and it's in great condition and turning into a really nice tournament. 

Q.   Race to Dubai, is that the aim this week? 
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, that's predominately why we are here.   Well, I may have came anyway but been working really hard to make the Top 60 and I've played really consistently the last two or three months without any particularly good finishes.   I'm going to have to have at least one good one if I'm going to make it, so hopefully have a crack at it at the weekend. 
I live five miles from the course in Dubai, and I've missed outlast few years, which is a bit frustrating.   So, yeah, all hands on deck to try and make it.

Q.   And I heard that you have in the past commentated for that particular tournament?
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah. 

Q.   So what will it be like to be on the other side of that and actually playing?
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, that's been a nice second job that week, very fortunate to be able to do a bit of TV.   But as much as that's been nice, it's been very frustrating to not be playing.   Ironically, I've never missed the season‑ending tournament, my first 13 years on Tour or something when it was in Spain and then I moved to Dubai and I've never made it since.   So that has been a bit bittersweet.   Yeah, I'm gunning to try and make it, and I'm hoping I can do it. 

Q.   And you're feeling confident heading into the weekend? 
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, I felt for a few weeks now that I'm due another good finish.   It's hard to win out here obviously but in position to do so after two rounds.   And you know two, more rounds to go.   We've got to keep doing the same things. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT