JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 24, 2012
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVID HOWELL:   I'm delighted firing under par.   It's not easy out here.   It's a big, long golf course and it's playing long because it's so wet.   And I haven't done well here for a few years.   And this is the first time I've made the cut in goodness knows how many years.   It's been a barren hunting ground for me for a few years so delighted to make it through to the weekend and in great shape.  
   
 Q.   You're nicely up in the mix and with the weather the way it is, who knows?   
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, my good pal, Mark Foster is leading away.   He was very unlucky not to win here last year and this course is obviously suiting his aye so he's going to be the man to case.   So friendly rivalry, hopefully we can try and hold on and give ourselves a chance with a round to go.   I played nicely‑‑ I played really nicely yesterday.   
Today was a little bit more of a battle I will say.   But what was encouraging was my short game was really sharp, I chipped one in, and I turned what might have been a reasonably tricky day into quite a serene 69 through a good short game.  
   
 Q.   And you were in worst of the elements, hammering down on the back nine?  
DAVID HOWELL:   The last three holes it wasn't looking pretty at all.   You can see the rain rolling in over these hills, which look great when the sun is shining but a bit menacing when it's like this.   I think it might be pretty tough out there this afternoon for the guys.   You know, it could be off and on.   To be fair, they would like it obviously to just be showers.   I'll be in the jacuzzi with the family hoping it's raining.  
   
 Q.   Assuming you're happy with the way the game is going full stop, because there has been more than one occasion where you were nicely in place this year.   
DAVID HOWELL:   I really am.   It's been hard work trying to turn my career around really; let's face facts.   That's eight cuts in a row I've made on The European Tour now.   You don't get points or prizes for making cuts, but it's consistency obviously and I'm starting to do a lot of the things I used to do really well.   I kind of forgot what made me a good golfer for a while, and it's slowly coming back to me.   
Obviously when I played well I was really dangerous because I can hole a few putts on the day, and my short game was always sharp enough to get me around on the poor days, and a combination of both of those two things disappearing, sure enough your confidence disappears with it and it's been a real battle.   But I think I'm slowly winning it, touch wood.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT