ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 8, 2012
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVID HOWELL:   Obviously a tinge of disappoint the not to have played well enough to win today but it's not easy around there.   I got off to a tricky start, and then from then on, I played beautifully, actually, couldn't hole a putt through the front nine. 
Had a few chances and when they didn't go in, I guess I was probably up against it to actually win.   I just stayed focussed.   You can't take anything for granted on this golf course.   You've got to get it on the greens and all the way to the last.   I didn't really know how I was doing until the last so just tried to play every hole as well as I could and see how things panned out.

Q.   So elaborate, you did have chances and opportunities after that start. 
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, I certainly did.   Three was a massive result for me making 6; could have made 8.   Actually freed me up a little bit as well and then I had great chances on the next, what, five holes probably.   I finally birdied the 9th.   Good chances on 10 again, and 12.   And then 13, 14 was a bit of a struggle as well.   And then long‑range lag putts really coming in. 
But the opportunities were there, and the ball just didn't go in today otherwise I would have been that bit closer.

Q.   You said prior to the final round that this was your first victory chance since the final round of The Irish Open last year. 
DAVID HOWELL:   Things have been tough for a few years, but they have been on the up for a good few months now and this was a combination of that really.   I was waiting for a good week to come along and I was playing well enough but wasn't quite happening.   This is a big money event for us and that's going to push me up the rankings a little bit.   I'll have my name a little bit higher to boost my already rise in confidence. 
It's hard when you stick yourself back in the mix when you have not been up there for a while.   You know, Tiger lives in that world, and the likes of Lee and Luke are there all the time; it's that bit easier on a Sunday for them and they have earnt that right. 
That's the plan.   Keep playing, keep making cuts, keep playing better, put myself in position.   And you know, what happened before when I was doing it, eventually tournaments come your way but you can't expect to suddenly snap one up from nowhere. 

Q.   And your appraisal of the man that's won this tournament, it's been a long time waiting for Marcel Siem?
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, eight years, fantastic.   And strangely it's not the sort of course you would expect Marcel to maybe close the deal on, as well, because he's an exuberant player and he's obviously done something brilliant and really well to shoot 4‑under today to win the French Open a great effort.   Marcel is a pretty popular player, so good luck to him.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT