ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 7, 2012
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVID HOWELL:   It was a good round of golf.   The worst shot I hit was the 7‑iron to the last hole which just got over the water by the skin of its teeth.   Pretty nerve‑wracking coming down the stretch.   I played beautifully.   It's been three good rounds so far.

Q.   It's been not only playing conditions being quite difficult but also interruption.   How difficult is it to stay in rhythm and not lose focus?
DAVID HOWELL:   It's never easy.   Today was very strange where we didn't have time to warm up again.   We dashed straight back out and got back into the round so that was a little bit unusual for us to cope with.   But we had only been sat around for ten or 15 minutes, so I guess it's no more than any amateur would do in a normal round of golf on Saturday or Sunday. 
Unfortunately I started off with a par there, and actually got up‑and‑down on 17.   So I didn't feel hindered by that at all.   And you know, a 67 in these conditions on this course is a real treat.

Q.   6‑under par going into the final round, seems like it's not a tournament where you're getting very aggressive but more likely patient and waiting for the others to do some mistakes and for you to have some putts going in probably?
DAVID HOWELL:   Today, as I say, it was probably the way you want to play the golf course.   The way I played, I kept the ball on the whole in the fairway and took my chances when they came along.   But you've got to play steady golf around here.   You can't smash it all over the place and expect to score. 
You've got to be patient and play strategically and not make too many stupid errors and when the birdie chances come, the greens are perfect, so you can hope to hole some putts from 20 or 30 feet as well. 

Q.   How much of an incentive is the spot at The Open this week?
DAVID HOWELL:   Not really anymore‑‑ not for me.   If that came along with a victory or something, then fantastic.   But this is a massive tournament in its own right.   Just out there trying to do as well as we can this week. 

Q.   The last couple of weeks, looks like you've got a bit of consistency, and that's what you've been striving for for quite a while now, isn't it?
DAVID HOWELL:   Well, six cuts in a row now, which we don't measure ourselves on cuts made obviously in professional golf but if you're not there at the weekend, you can't compete.   So, yeah, consistent form is starting to be there for me, which is great.   And that's what we all want to do. 
So the confidence is building by the day and today's round was important for me, and tomorrow's will be of course.   In decent position after 36, you never want to go backwards, and to play such a nice round, I was very pleased for my confidence.

Q.   You say you don't measure yourself on cuts obviously but you need a foundation to build on, don't you, and that gives you that. 
DAVID HOWELL:   You do indeed.   If you look too far ahead and you're not there at the weekend, it is the worst thing, missing cuts in professional golf.   Anyone will tell you that.   We all want to play consistently.   It's not easy to make cuts out here; the standard is so deep.   But I'm doing that of late and that's given me four rounds each week and obviously I'm playing some nice golf.   So, I'm enjoying it, and as I say, the confidence is returning.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT