SALTIRE ENERGY PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 2, 2015
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVID HOWELL: Longest day I've had for a while.   
 Q.  How would you reflect on a third place finish in this event?  
DAVID HOWELL: Well, I'm slightly disappointed obviously.  Had a chance this morning, no doubt.  Although I played well early on, to lose in a playoff was always frustrating and I made a mistake to do that, so that was all the more annoying.   
Came out there, obviously Marc is a tough opponent.  I think neither of us were on top form.  It's been a long week.  Adrenaline had all gone by the time we got to the first tee this afternoon but still plenty to play for and no one likes to lose, do they.   
It was a good battle rather than a high-quality game I would say.   
 Q.  I take it, some solace in the fact it's been so competitive.  
DAVID HOWELL: Yeah, I mean, it's great fun, match play.  You can play weeks on end on the Tour without having that crucial moment where you've got to hit a good shot or hole the putt to win.  Very often you only get those feelings to make the cut at those critical moments.  Of course match play, you get them every day and every hole, they feel like that, as well.   
It's a great buzz.  I've really enjoyed it and I was looking out for a match-play tournament to come back out on the Tour for many years and it's happened until now and it's brilliant that Saltire have come on board.  Lovely to have Paul Lawrie come up with the idea and host the event.  It's been a great week and the players have really enjoyed it.   
 Q.  So this is a success, and looking forward to next year, in a sense?  
DAVID HOWELL: Yeah, definitely.  I think all the players.  Even those that lost in the first round, having breakfast with them Friday morning, everyone wants to see it stay and it is for three years.  I think we can do with more match play.   
You talk about all sorts of things, different formats of golf.  Match play is not a strange format.  It's almost the original format.  It's a great test.  And straight off 18-hole match play, if you lose, you go home, that's the way to do it I believe.   
 Q.  And I take it, a nice boost in World Rankings?  
DAVID HOWELL: Yeah, hopefully should just stick me back in the top hundred again.  If we could get to Whistling Straits, that would be nice.  That was one of my goals at the start of the year.  Touch and go this week but hopefully I've done enough with a third place finish here.  Definitely a week's rest and go out to Whistling Straits nice and early and enjoy the last major of the year.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT