JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 29, 2008
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVID HOWELL: Started with a bogey, funny enough, terrible shot to the 10th, my first hole and walked off with four, and Nick, my caddie said, well, a lot of good rounds start with a bogey. I wasn't in the mood for hearing that. And sure enough, little by little we picked up some nice shots along the way.

 Q. You'll believe him next time?
 DAVID HOWELL: Maybe. I try not to believe him too often. (Laughing).

 Q. That was a remarkable round of golf especially to get those scores, I know conditions are a little more benign than they were on the first day but given what's been said about the greens as well. 
 DAVID HOWELL: Well, the greens were better this morning than obviously they were yesterday afternoon, and slightly firmer, as well, with no overnight rain. But the guys have yet to go out on them this afternoon and they obviously get more beaten up as the day goes on. 
 Yeah, I rolled the ball really well on the greens today, and when the greens are poor, you've really got to do that and it's even more important. 
 So yeah, I holed a couple and I hit some poor shots and I hit some nice ones, as well and to finish with three birdies there, really topped the day off and turned a good day into an excellent one. 

 Q. Wouldn't it be nice to make a wonderful showing; it would full stop but in a week when everybody is talking about Ryder Cup, and sadly you've not been in the picture this time around. 
 DAVID HOWELL: No, I'm not going to be there this year unfortunately it doesn't look that way, unless I shoot two 61s but I don't think even that will do it. 
 No, it's important just for myself to put a strong weekend in. I haven't challenged at the top of the leaderboard for some time. I had a good finish at The Open there, only two or three tournaments ago, but that came from a leap on the last day. So it would be nice to get out there tomorrow and hopefully put another good score opponent the board and hopefully feel ourselves in the mix on Sunday, that would be really pleasing.

 Q. The sad thing is, come Sunday, whoever wins this tournament, unless they are in that Ryder Cup picture is going to be overlooked apart from the player themselves; but it is a prestigious and good tournament to be up there in, isn't it. 
 DAVID HOWELL: Yeah, we've got exciting times. All of the talk is about The Ryder Cup qualification, but yeah, the Johnnie Walker is a fantastic event and big prize fund, and anyone who wins is going to be a deserving champion and they certainly -- as you mentioned they certainly won't be forgetting it. It's always hard to win a tournament on The European Tour, and yeah, it's not to be overshadowed by anything.

 Q. Given what you said about The Open and the finish there, do you feel competitive?
 DAVID HOWELL: Yeah, I'm starting to turn things around. I've been saying that all year, but I'm on a run of sort of four or five made cuts in a row now, and although I didn't play great when I went to America on a very tough golf course, since The London Club, I've had a reasonable run of finishes. 
 So if I can continue that over this weekend and onwards, that might actually be the start of a very long road to back up the rankings. 

 Q. One other Ryder Cup thing; who would your two picks be if it was your decision?
 DAVID HOWELL: Well, I'm talking to you here surrounded by five wooden panel fences, and I'll sit firmly on the fence. I will say Darren Clarke has obviously made a very big play, so I think it's probably going to be him and one other. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT