COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 25, 2008
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVID HOWELL:  I got the most out of it, both days, to be fair.  This course, the rough's not up this week and you can get lucky in the sand as well.  I haven't driven it well for two days.  The rest of my game's been pretty decent. 
 But yeah, there's been a few issues off the tee so delighted to have the 6-under and my course management was very good.  I made the most of every situation I found myself in really and putted very well.  Yeah, delighted to have made the cut and delighted to be in position to challenge at the weekend, obviously, more importantly. 

 Q.  So game is not back to where it was, but on its way? 
 DAVID HOWELL:  Most definitely the first time I've been up there for well over a year, so I've got a nice plan in place of what I'm going to try to work on in my game.  I'm not there by any means with my long game, but who knows, just taking it one step at a time. 
 And I've still got to improve my driving and off the tee.  I know what I'm doing wrong I think and I've got to be able to putt that in place.  That's going to be difficult to do with the pressure of trying to win a tournament every weekend. 
 Got to keep my mind in the right place and go out and take tomorrow as it comes and see how we do.  Yeah, big thrill to be up there again. 

 Q.  You said to me a few weeks ago that this three weeks is look-and-see, so now you're seeing; what are you seeing? 
 DAVID HOWELL:  Seeing progress in many ways with my swing.  Short game is in great shape.  My mind is in good shape.  But I am in the mid-process of trying to change my swing, and for the better, but as anyone would tell you, when you're trying to do that, it's not easy.  I've not stood up there feeling like I'm going to flush it down the middle.  I've got plenty of things going on in my mind and that's never easy. 

 Q.  You said you got lucky, anything specific? 
 DAVID HOWELL:  I hit a terrible shot off 16, marginal par 4 and with a 3-wood and ended up in the rocks, two great big boulders that we were able to move and chipped that on 40 yards for birdie.  They weren't overly heavy.  That was coming off the back of par out of sand as well. 
 I had a bit of luck, I'll be honest with you and I got a free drop on 2 from a sprinkler system in the trees which gave me an easy second shot. 
 Both my playing partners will attest they are surprised to me see one off the lead, but there's more than one way to skin a cat.  If I can drive it better over the weekend, who knows. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT