THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2007
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  What is it you're going to have to work on?   
 DAVID HOWELL:  I've got to work on my swing, just get a feel for driving the ball straight again.  So that's what I'll do next week.  Obviously it's an onward continuing search, but I've done it before, I guess I'll do it again.   
  
  Q.  Was it trying to protect the back?   
 DAVID HOWELL:  No, no.  The body is great.   
  
  Q.  I meant when you were teeing up, were you thinking about that?   
 DAVID HOWELL:  That's just rubbish (laughter).   
  
  Q.  Nice birdie at the last, then?   
 DAVID HOWELL:  Nice way to finish, exactly.  So you hit nice irons, hit nice drivers, that goes to show you if you can get on the fairway you can hit a decent second shot.   
  
  Q.  Will you be playing Germany next?   
 DAVID HOWELL:  No, unfortunately I'm not playing next week.  But then I'll obviously see what happens in the Americas.   
  
  Q.  When will we see you back here?   
 DAVID HOWELL:  I may play Sweden, I'm not sure.   
  
  Q.  Your thoughts on the tournament?   
 DAVID HOWELL:  I'm quite disappointed, obviously.  Whenever you finish 50s in the field is not what you're after whatsoever.  And it's more of the same for me at the Open.   
 I didn't drive the ball well enough, and that just caused me all sorts of problems all week long, right from the word go.  I guess in some ways I did well to make the cut after my horrendous start, 4-over after three holes.  But you've got to play all the holes from first to last.  But I just wasn't good enough this week.   
  
  Q.  In terms of what you have to work on, is it getting on the driving range and driving the ball again?   
 DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, absolutely.  Putting well, and the short game is pretty decent.  It's my long game, which has always been my weakness, if anything.  When I play well it's because that's in good shape, and at the moment it's not.   
  
  Q.  What are you going to do now?   
 DAVID HOWELL:  I have the week off this week, and then I'm off to America.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT