SALTIRE ENERGY PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
August 1, 2015
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What are your reflections on a lovely victory over Chris Wood?
DAVID HOWELL: Yeah, slightly surprised that I ran out a 5 & 4 victory in the end to be honest with you.  I was looking forward a close match.  Obviously delighted it ended the way it did.  I thought it was going to be a close match.  Chris started off really well, 2-up early.  I made a birdie and eagle in the first three holes, or first four holes I should say.  I was up against it at that point but made a lovely birdie on the par 3 and that got me back in the match I felt.  From then on, things went my way almost all the way in.
Q. Eagle two, as well.
DAVID HOWELL: That was obviously a joy, that one.  I was in control of the match at that point but if it goes the other way and he should do that, of course he's right back in it.  But that was a bit of a killer blow for Chris at that point.  I managed to back that up with a beautiful 6-iron to the next hole and at that point Chris was, yeah, having to play aggressive and couldn't quite manage to do anything well.
Q. Presumably that adds to that sense of being in control at that time.  You look at your opponent and you realize you've got on top.
DAVID HOWELL: Yes, I think when he missed the green right on the par 3 following that pitch, I was in good shape.  Looked like I was pretty much going to win that hole.  He ended up in an awkward spot, as well, in fairness to him.  I gained control of the match.  Didn't close out quite as I would have wanted to.  I 3-putted when I had a chance to go 5-up with five to play and Chris made a bit of a hash of that final 14th hole, as did I.  It was good enough to run out victorious anyway.
Q. Feeling good physically as well as mentally after two matches in a day?
DAVID HOWELL: Yeah, we talked about that before deciding to play here this week.  Can a 40-year-old cope with seven rounds to try to win this championship; and this is my sixth week in a row, as well.  I'm feeling good.  My physio has been keeping me in great shape of late and I've been working out.  I might be 40 -- I do feel it but doing well anyway.  I don't think tiredness is going to affect my play tomorrow in any way.  Just looking forward to getting out there to try to get in the final.
Q. That does mean two more matches tomorrow come what may.
DAVID HOWELL: Obviously we all want to be in the final and we all want to win this championship.  It's been a joy to play and everyone has enjoyed the Match Play, first time in many years we've had it on the Tour.  I've enjoyed it and I know all the guys have.  I would like to get to that final and have a chance to win; but should it not happen, play in a playoff, so be it.  World Ranking points and Race to Dubai points to play for.  Looking forward to tomorrow and hopefully can get the job done.
Q. Helps to get matches over nice and early?
DAVID HOWELL: I suppose so.
Q. You've been on a good run?
DAVID HOWELL: I've been playing well this year.  Had chances to win, haven't quite taken them.  Had a little blip where I missed three cuts in a row around the PGA but only by one and not much was wrong.  But yeah, week-in, week-out, I've been consistent, playing well and really enjoying my golf, which has been a joy.
Q. Obviously got the Dunhill Links win, as well.  Coming to a course like this must give you confidence?
DAVID HOWELL: On a links course -- couldn't be more different mind you, that might be the widest course in the world and it might be the narrowest.  We've just played in The Open and The Scottish Open so we are all in the swing of links golf at the moment, as well and it really has been a true links test.  The wind got up again this afternoon and really only this morning did we have any calm conditions.  I'm not sure what the forecast is tomorrow but the course is in great shape and you've got to go out there and hit the shots.  It's a lot of fun playing into these strong winds and it's not easy.  For a match-play test it doesn't really make much difference what the conditions are.  You have to win each hole or try and do that.  It's been a really good match play test.
Q. Details of the chip-in?
DAVID HOWELL: About 58 yards.  I didn't have a yardage.  It was one of those, you have to try to pitch in the right place and hope to get it somewhere close and in she popped, which is a real treat.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT