VOLVO MASTERS
October 28, 2006
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Five consecutive birdies, 5 under par through seven, what's going through your mind at that stage?
DAVID HOWELL:  I was just in a nice little zone there.  My target today was just concentrate on every single shot and not get ahead of myself, the old cliches.  Just got a wonderful run there, hit some nice shots in a row and holed a couple of putts.  A little bit lucky on 7 to be honest with you.  Went in from 30 feet off the slope, that was the fifth one.  Golf is such a gain of momentum.

I almost got another lucky break off the 8th tee, a sand wedge albeit from the heavy rough which I left 40 feet short and classic error, 3 putted and momentum was lot lost.  To get it back what I needed to do was back that up with a birdie or two soon after.  I wasn't quite able to do that on 10 and 11 and every time I hit a bad shot I seemed to miss in the wrong place.
Q.  How disappointed to not capitalise on that start?
DAVID HOWELL:  Well, I'm still in this tournament and I'm still in it for the Order of Merit.  1 under was a good score today.  Still wasn't easy out there.  Being 5 under after seven obviously is disappointing.  You know, it all adds up to 70, and would I have taken that at the start of the day, possibly if it would give me a chance tomorrow.
Q.  Give us an update on the injury.
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, shoulder is feeling good.  I might even hit 10 or 15 shots on the range this evening, maybe, but it has not affected me particularly.  I'm very pleased with it.  Looks like I'm going to get through the week okay.
Q.  How will you approach tomorrow's final round of the season and in the situation you're in?
DAVID HOWELL:  It's exciting.  I'm looking forward to it to be honest with you.  Robert is in exactly the right position to have a go at both winning the tournament and the Order of Merit, so it's going to be exciting.  I need to stay in the same sort of frame of mind as I was today and hopefully I can continue hitting good shots instead of a few bad ones on the back nine that I unfortunately did today.  If my mind can stay in the right place and I can swing like I did on the front nine, I might give myself a chance.
Q.  Will you monitor the progress on the board?
DAVID HOWELL:  I don't think so.  I looked late in the back nine today to sort of tune myself up really and realised I was still in it.  Obviously after making three or four bogeys, that was probably a good time to look and sure enough it did cheer me up a little bit.  I think tomorrow it's just go out there for 18 holes, play as well as we can and see how we do.
Q.  Funny old game, isn't it, a tremendous front nine there, wonderful run of success with five birdies in a row.
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, obviously things were going like a dream at that point.  You're having one of those dream days in a situation, you carry on, shoot 8  or 9 under par on a tough day, on a tough course but it wasn't to be.  This game of golf, funny game it is, you know, I didn't manage to continue hitting good shots and a couple of loose ones came in and I wasn't able to save par when they came in.  Obviously holed my share of putts on the front nine and I couldn't hole a birdie putt when I had a chance on the back either.

All in all it, added up to 70.  Very disappointed to bogey the last with my position off the tee, that was a sad way to finish.  For three days I've pretty much done what I've needed to do and give myself a chance with a round to go and hopefully win the Volvo Masters and the Order of Merit.
Q.  It's poised.  All of the candidates are still very much in the mix?
DAVID HOWELL:  Absolutely.  Obviously it depend how Lee finishes the last couple of holes in terms of this tournament.  And I think he's back to 3 under.  It's looking pretty bunched.  Padraig and Robert are right there, and Paul, I didn't see what he shot today, but doesn't look like he's threatening the lead, which the three of us needs to happen as well.  It's going to be exciting and it's going to take a great round from one of us tomorrow to pull this thing off.  I hope it's me, but it's going to be a lot of fun trying, anyway.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT