VOLVO MASTERS
October 26, 2006
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You teed off not knowing what to expect, ended in style, and apparently you called it, you said you were going to hole a shot?
DAVID HOWELL:  I didn't quite say I was going to hole it.  I said it would be a nice one to hole.  Yeah, lovely way to finish obviously.  Actually, you know, like I said before, anything under par today for me would have been very pleasing, and obviously that's a miraculous shot at the end just to achieve that.  I'm in touch with the leaders, really, and all in all it was a very positive day.
Q.  How did the shoulder stand up on the way around?  Did it affect the way you played very much?
DAVID HOWELL:  I think the lack of practise and sort of the shot I hit into the last, that's the kind of shot that the ailments that I've got with the shoulder causes me to hit.  I just come around a lot of shots.  And so I think it's affecting me, it's always hard to say, but no excuses.

I know what I've got to do, and I didn't do it on the 18th on the second shot.  Obviously need to do a little bit better with my own play, three days to come.  But very pleasing not having hit a ball for ten days.
Q.  You said you were going to keep your foot off the power today but birdied all the par 5s.  How do you explain that?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, I hit the fairways.  The guys who handle my stats always say to me I have to hit it hard off the par 5s and I've got good wedge play, and I did hit some shots in nice and tight.  Took advantage of them which is great and you need it do that right here.  It's so tricky.  You hit a poor shot anywhere and you're facing a bogey, so if you can't take advantage of the par 5s, it's always a bonus.
Q.  So what for you now, rest and treatment?
DAVID HOWELL:  A bit of ice and physio.  No hitting balls and rest up for tomorrow.
Q.  Do you think the shoulder has been affected over what has gone on?  You said it might deteriorate over the week?
DAVID HOWELL:  No, I certainly feel like I'm going on okay tomorrow.  It's a day by day thing.  I'm fairly hopeful I get through the week now.  Still need some rest and it's up to me to give it at some stage but obviously this week's not the time.
Q.  Were you hurt on any particular shot?
DAVID HOWELL:  No.  Not hurt, no.  It's as good as it could have been or expected, really.  Lots of muscles tight and sore around the area, and it's, you know, I probably should be resting.
Q.  How many shots did you hit yesterday and today?
DAVID HOWELL:  Well, I hit one bucket, a few.  I hit hardly any yesterday and today I hit one bucket, just trying to take it steady really.
Q.  Did you throttle back on a lot of the shots?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, I'm not standing up trying to   I don't think I'm losing any power.  Don't get me wrong, I'm not trying to smash it at all which is probably a good thing anyway.
Q.  Birdie on the 1st?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, like watching Clarke at the Ryder Cup, he starts off a beautiful birdie.  It's funny when you least expect it, and you think things might go horribly wrong, it comes out I played the first two holes beautifully except I missed a tidler on the second.  All and all very pleased, just a few rank shots out there that I need to improve on but I feel like I know what I've got to do to do that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT