SALTIRE ENERGY PAUL LAWRIE MATCH PLAY
July 31, 2015
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your thoughts on a resounding victory?
DAVID HOWELL: Yeah, things went nicely today.  But I'm going to play well; I had a putt to go 7-under on the 12th or 13th to close the match out.  So that was going to be pretty tough for anyone to match today.
Didn't manage to hole that, and it's a crazy game, match play.  I of course go and then lose the next and you've got to close it out in the end.  But David made a mistake on the 14th, I guess it was, and I felt pretty secure obviously with 5-up and five to play.
Yeah, delighted to get through and rest the legs for tomorrow.
Q. Satisfying to do it knowing the weather conditions were that much more awkward today?
DAVID HOWELL: Yeah, obviously it's the first time most of us have seen this course and we've had two completely different winds.  It's a fun little track and it's perfect for a match-play tournament.  It gives you many options.  You can be aggressive, play safe, and it's tricky.  And it's in perfect condition.  I think I can put pretty well and these greens are certainly in the right shape for holing a few putts.
Q. Sounds like you like this course and you like the idea of a match-play tournament back on The European Tour?
DAVID HOWELL: Yeah, delighted.  I've been lucky enough to play in the World Match Play a couple of times.  But I always thought a standard European Tour event for the bulk of the membership would go down really well, amongst the players, especially, and so far, so good.  I think the guys -- there was a real buzz about the place from Tucson wards; who are we going to play, how is it going to be, and it's a really nice addition to our calendar.
Q. Do we need innovation in golf?  Do we need new things?
DAVID HOWELL: I don't think we need particularly new things.  Match play is as old as it comes, isn't it.  Possibly the oldest form of golf almost.  Just looking the other guy in the eye and going out and trying to win your game is a lot of fun.  I think the crowd can obviously buy into their player, follow all the way around, get into it and comes to a conclusion in one round of golf.
And it's nice to feel like you actually won something.  Only one winner at the end of this week, but a lot of guys on Tour go many, many years without feeling they have actually won anything.  At least you get the mini version of that, which is winning a match and going on to the next day.  So that's a nice thrill for everyone.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT