WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 29, 2006
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  General comments on your round?
DAVID HOWELL:  Very pleased, 5 under again, in slightly more difficult conditions.  The key for me is driving it well, I've been on and off with the driver, really, so far.  I think I need to drive it a little bit better if I'm going to be able to put any pressure on Tiger at all.  But delighted with two 66s and two more would be fantastic.
Q.  You made a pretty good up and down there on 18 there.
DAVID HOWELL:  I didn't actually, I ended up hitting it in the tent off the tee but got a lucky break and managed to get my second shot up close, but had an awkward chip.  Felt like one sort of got away, but the drive was a poor one, so beggars can't be choosers.
Q.  Heading down the home stretch as far as the Order of Merit, maybe just some comments on that?
DAVID HOWELL:  It's a big weekend for me.  Paul is struggling, he's obviously had some big weeks recently and maybe this was one too many.

But it's up to me to put a strong week in and try and catch him obviously.  If I can win this event outright, trying to get back to No. 1 on the Order of Merit is certainly my goal.
Q.  You guys are pretty good friends, or a lot of you guys are good friends.  Do you guys talk about stuff like that or just in a joking manner?
DAVID HOWELL:  We have a bit of a joke now and again, myself and Paul.  Earlier in the year he was giving me a bit of ribbing in good and it has been mentioned, but in good jest.  Both of us are delighted to be in the position we're in.  One of us is obviously going to fall at the last, shall we say, and hopefully it's Paul.  (Laughing.)
Q.  People are talking about the Ryder Cup hangover or whatever, but you're playing well, Stewart Cink is playing well, Furyk is playing well, Tiger is obviously playing well.  Is it just kind of different strokes for different folks kind of?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, I think, you know, I haven't been on great form for a while, and the Ryder Cup's given me a boost, I guess.  Coming here, I feel like I'm playing at home and the crowds have been fantastic.  Coming to a big event straight after, maybe not ideal for some of the guys, but it gets the juices flowing and get back to what we do best, which is play 72 hole golf.
Q.  So you might go two ways, either up or down after a week like a Ryder Cup?
DAVID HOWELL:  I think so.  It's important to start strong this week.  One of those things, I guess, if you start poorly, it can feel like after the Lord Mayor Show, and if you start strong, you can keep that momentum going.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT