BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
September 2, 2006
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Thank you, David, for coming in as always.  I know it wasn't quite the way you wanted to finish with a bogey, but overall you must be very pleased with your position in the tournament and your defence of the BMW International Open.
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, obviously delighted.  Certainly the best effort I've had at maintaining a trophy to date.  Two shot lead is obviously a great position to be in.  But the job is not by any means done.  I'm going to have to play equally as well tomorrow for sure.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Tell us about the last one, the drive obviously caused the problem.
DAVID HOWELL:  I haven't felt great with the driver all week to be honest with you.  The rest of my game is in pretty good shape.  I've been missing it right when I hit a poor shot, and on the last I finally hit it left and hit a hook and went in the water very disappointing.  I had 64 in my mind really at the start of the day.  Two shot lead, I would have taken starting out I guess.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Give us your details.  You birdied the first?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, it was about a 25 footer after an 8 iron.

2 was 5 iron to six feet.

6, 5 iron on to the back fringe, two putts from about 30 feet.

9, I had to lay up and hit a wedge to four feet.

12, was 7 iron holed from 20 feet.

14, terrible drive out to the right again.  That was actually a very good save for bogey believe it or not.  I hacked it out of the trees, hacked it down the fairway and holed an 8 footer for bogey.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Then came back with three in a row.
DAVID HOWELL:  15, nice bounce back, sand wedge to eight feet.

Then lob wedge to six feet.

Then a crazy putt on 17 across the ridge from about 40 feet.  So I guess I probably deserved to make bogey at the last after holing something like that.
Q.  It's a bit of an obvious one, but apart from your own position, it's good that so many Ryder Cup players are right at the top of the leaderboard?
DAVID HOWELL:  You're right.  (Laughter).
Q.  Would you comment?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, well, obviously, anybody on the Ryder Cup side wants to gain as much confidence as they can for three weeks' time.  And the more guys that play better going into it, obviously the better for us.  I think that was pretty much the story last time around two years ago.  Most of the guys seemed to be on good form.  I wouldn't have included myself in that.  But, you know, certainly confidence is everything going in and this is a good time for us.
Q.  What did you think about one of your main rivals flying to a pop concert in Glasgow this evening, how he's preparing for his final round?
DAVID HOWELL:  That's an interesting way to prepare.  Well, fair play to him I guess, so I hope he has a good time.
Q.  How will you prepare, such a lot of choices tonight?
DAVID HOWELL:  That's a good point.  Hopefully I'll get to bed before Colin does anyway.
Q.  You are maybe on the way to win this tournament a second time, is there a reason why?  Do you like this tournament; do you like the course?
DAVID HOWELL:  Well, I wouldn't go as far to say I'm on the way to winning it; there's a lot of work to be done.  I'm certainly very comfortable here.  I've had many Top 10s over the heres here anyway.  Obviously qualifying for the Ryder Cup two years ago here and then last year I managed to win the tournament, and I always enjoy coming here and I always enjoy coming back.

There are certainly horses for courses.  Some guys do play well at particular venues, and obviously this is one of my favourites.
Q.  Have you ever done anything unusual or daft when you've been in contention with a round to play?
DAVID HOWELL:  Not yet, no.  (Laughing).
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Thank you, David.  Congratulations, good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT