ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 2, 2015
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Pleased with today?  
DAVID HOWELL:   Very much so.   4‑under through six on the back nine here is the stuff of‑‑ dreams are made of those starts.   I was hoping to really sort of box on from there, try and get away from the rest of the pack early on but there's a lot of trouble out here.   
To be honest with you, it was funny, I was 4‑under and I dodged a few bullets.   I wasn't feeling all that great, holed a chip and holed a couple of nice putts.   My game wasn't really there, but my score was looking good there for a while.  
But sure enough the back nine, or my back nine, caught up with me and it's a game of two halves, as they say.   In the end, level par I probably didn't deserve much better than that for the way I hit the ball, but fair is fair I guess.  
   
 Q.   You've been coming here year after year, four Top‑10 finishes.   So you know what this course needs and what it can deliver.   
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, I've enjoyed it recently the last few years.   When I was playing poorly for about a five‑year spell, this course was way too tough.   In recent times I've sort of had the measure of it almost, and I've really enjoyed the challenge to be honest with you the last few years and same again today.   
It's going to be tough, no matter what.   We turned up here, there's hardly any rough compared to previous years and the scoring is if anything, almost higher.   Obviously it's playing short and fast and firm, and you've really got to control the ball well to stay out of water here and not just the water, some of the run‑offs on the greens, 8 and 9 there, they are both tricky greens there even with a wedge in your hands.   Level par wasn't the start I was after, but we'll take it.  
   
 Q.   And apart from the annoyance of a delay, has the 2 1/2 hours made any kind of difference?   Ready for your lunch now; did it change the nature of the course?   
DAVID HOWELL:   Well, I mean, when we teed off first thing this morning, we were probably going to get obviously the coolest part of the day and maybe slightly sort of damper conditions.   
It was a bit overcast and maybe we would have had the best of it, but we didn't get to play much golf.   So we all came in for breakfast and it's just going to be the same for everyone today, hot and with a slight breeze, and it's difficult.   
But I think that's what The French Open deserves.   It's a great course and I think when it plays tough, that's what this course is all about, and it's going to be a fantastic week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT