THE INTERNATIONAL
August 11, 2006
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  We all set?  David Howell, thank you for joining us here.  14 points through the first two rounds.  A lot of golfers still out there, but you have to like your position heading into the weekend.
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah.  I'd like to be a few more points up on the board there.  I was up to 12 on the 18th tee yesterday, so from that point the view I don't feel like I've had a great last 19 holes.

But I played pretty well today.  I had a lovely putt on 10, and then after that I couldn't buy a putt.  And I had a few good chances before then as well.

You know, pour down the greens for me, which is unusual.  But I'll do a little bit of work on it this afternoon, and hopefully I've got a bunch out there for this weekend.
Q.  As far as the conditions, it seemed to be a little windy out there today, although you did have the morning time where you probably had a little smoother greens to putt on.
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah.  At times, you know, no wind to start with for the first probably 11 holes    well nine holes I guess, actually.  The greens were perfect naturally, so it's a bit disappointing not be able to get a few more in.  As you say, the wind is really picking up now.
THE MODERATOR:  We'll take some questions now.
Q.  You said pre tournament that you felt the changes you made were starting to click.  Is this verification of that?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, I'm feeling that way.  I spoke to my coach I think Wednesday; he's back home.  How are things going?  I thought they were going pretty well in practice, but until you actually get out there you're never too sure.

And I'm not really quite comfortable with the green this week.  Yeah, I think, you know, those change are really just settled in nicely now.
Q.  Like the best you've played in the last couple months?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah , definitely.  Since the last round of tournaments in America, The U.S Open is definitely the best golf I've played.  It was a tough five or six weeks.  Nice to play well again.
Q.  What did you do with your coach back home, David, that kind of turned things around for you?
DAVID HOWELL:  Well, we just decided to work on making the game day (indiscernible) I was getting tense in the right arm just during the setup.  And when I just sort of crossed the line, 2/10ths then I would hit bad shots.  Just keeping that nice and relaxed.

I could hit it, and then I couldn't hit it for the first month to change the line of my swing slightly.  It just took time to settle.  To be honest with you, things just clicked on my week off with no pressure, I guess.

And it's just, for me, it was just a waiting game, I guess.  Keep doing the right things and it would settle back into where it should be.
Q.  How would you anticipate winning in the United States compared to a win over in Europe for you?
DAVID HOWELL:  It's the next step in my career actually.  I would say hopefully.  It's obviously very difficult to win here.  I haven't really given myself a chance with (indiscernible) to play yet.  Maybe 64.

So, yeah, that's the next thing for me.  You know, I've been pretty good when I've been in contention the last year or so.  I've managed to win three times.  So, yeah, getting in that position is the next step.

And, yeah, I might have to do that more than once over here obviously.  And if I keep doing it, hopefully that win will come.  I'm quite pleased with how I've played generally this year over here.  I haven't missed a cut yet.  Seem to be up there most times.  As you say, hopefully it's the next step.  Just stay patient and wait for it to come.
Q.  David, have you had any conversations with the captain recently?  And what does Ian expect you to do, be on the team?
DAVID HOWELL:  We have spoken.  As a matter of fact, I had a rather nice text message a few weeks ago.  I came out of the gym.  I guess it's the sort of message you dream of getting when you're a kid.  Congratulations on making the team.  Can you give me a ring with a few names of people you'd like to play with?

So I duly gave him a ring and gave him my thoughts obviously.  And I had a general chat, but obviously we haven't gone as far as any roles on the team or anything.

We'll see how everyone is playing that week.  Obviously hopefully I'd like to be playing well in the Ryder Cup to play a bigger part than I did last year.
Q.  Did you tell him who you'd like to play with?
DAVID HOWELL:  No.
Q.  But you had a couple of names that you
DAVID HOWELL:  To be honest, I'll be happy to play with anyone.  There's two or three people that I've got experience playing with in match play and team golf.  But if that's something that Ian wants to take into account, I'll play with anyone.
Q.  Have you played with Ian?
DAVID HOWELL:  I haven't played with him this year.  Not for a while actually.  It's been quite a while.
Q.  Maybe we can touch on your 3 birdies and one bogey, and then maybe one final question.
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah.  I birdie the 3rd, I believe, which was a driver, a pitching wedge, to four feet.

I hit two nice shots at the Par 5 at 8 but ended up in the divot just left of the green.  Tried to chip with a 5 wood which I messed up completely, and then holed a 25 footer from the fringe.

Then I hit a nice 6 iron about the same distance again on 10 just rolled it in.  It was a difficulty putt.  It actually came in the back door.  That was a nice touch.  I guess I used up all my luck there.
Q.  David, talk a little bit about the putting surfaces here and how you find them.
DAVID HOWELL:  They were perfect this morning.  Obviously, there's quite a bit of (indiscernible) on them.  As we noticed yesterday, luckily we were out first out again.  In the afternoon they do spike up and they're not quite so pretty late in the day.  But they're fantastic greens in general.

It's just the general wear and tear.  They played soft from some of the rain that we've had in this area over the weekend, but basically they're delightful to putt on.
THE MODERATOR:  Last question.
Q.  Were they faster today than yesterday?  In other words, are they getting faster as we go along?
DAVID HOWELL:  I didn't notice that.  But then again, I didn't putt very well.  Maybe they are.  Maybe I'll have a different answer tomorrow.  You might know something I don't.
THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  David Howell, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT