BARCLAYS CLASSIC
June 9, 2006
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  David, under par today, fell back to 4 under par, but 31 on the back nine.
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, I felt like I played reasonably nicely, but I probably had a lapse in concentration, a bit of bad luck on the 5th hole, the par 5, just stopped my momentum.  I was in danger of putting up a bad round and delighted to come back strong and played the back nine as strong as I did.
Q. Talk about confidence and momentum going into the weekend.
DAVID HOWELL:  As you said, momentum, and my confidence is right there.  I'm playing about as well as I ever have.  This is a great place to be.  The last couple of weeks my concentration isn't quite as good as it was at Wentworth when I won, and that's one thing I need to be strong on for the weekend here, so that should take the concentration side of things.  Momentum is everything.  This course can grab you when you least expect it.  This course is torturous around the greens.
Q.  It's a challenge to do that, but it's also a challenge when you start playing really well, when you win, when you move into the Top 10 in the world.  Now you want to keep putting yourself in this situation but you've got to be ready upstairs, too.
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, we can have many weeks on Tour where nothing happens and we pick up a nice check and it's all very nice, but what it's all about is winning tournaments.  What comes with that is a bit of stress and a bit of pressure, a lot of excitement, and at the moment I'm handling those emotions pretty well generally in the last year or so.  This is the first time I guess I've been in the joint lead on the U.S. Tour with two days to go.  I'm playing with Vijay tomorrow, which is great.  It's going to be a big week for me.

I've been coping with these situations pretty well in the recent past, but you never know.  I won't take anything for granted, but I'm feeling good about things and hopefully I can have a great weekend.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT