DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 21, 2014
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on 6‑under through two rounds.  
DAVID HOWELL:   It's nice to be sort of in the hunt, as you say, two rounds, a lot of golf left.   These are big events and to finish high up in the Order of Merit, or The Race to Dubai rankings as they now are, you need to have a big finish in The Final Series.   I haven't done that so far and very pleased to give myself an opportunity of doing that this week.  
   
 Q.   Big event that's nice to play in, because for many a year, you were here for commentary duties or living in Dubai.   You got back to playing last year and didn't do too badly.   
DAVID HOWELL:   A very frustrating four years living just around the corner.   As fun as the media is to be involved with, as you may know, Nick, it's much better for a golfer to be playing, and I'm here two years in a row now so things are nicely back on track.   Yeah, looking forward to a really good finish this weekend and finishing what's been a long year for everyone on a high.  
   
 Q.   I know it's not the same, but did those four years give you an appreciation of what is involved in this tournament, the way the course was developing.   
DAVID HOWELL:   I think so.   It's nice to see the other side of what goes on around us at times, and there's an awful lot going on around that we don't see.   
Yeah, it's been nice to see this place develop.   It's been tough times in Dubai here at times over those years and finally here we are and the clubhouse is finally finished.   The Jumeirah Golf Estates is finally coming of age and this tournament here for the fifth, sixth year in a row and it's getting a bit of a tradition going, as well, so it's nice all around.  
   
 Q.   Getting support as a local?   
DAVID HOWELL:   Yeah, had a few friends out there.   Cheers louder than you'd normally expect for the odd good putt.   That was nice.   Great to have some friends enjoying watching over the weekend.   
It's the world's best players, and the world's best player on a course that suits him, as well.   I'm going to have to play some mighty fine golf to have a chance to win.   A couple of 66s and you never know.   That would get me way under par and might well be good enough.   Have to go out and play my best golf, no mistakes like I did today and putt and control the ball well, and all the same, and you just never know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT