WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2006
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Bad luck.  I can't quite believe I'm having this conversation with you.  I was really expecting to    it looked like you were going to win there at the end, didn't it?
DAVID HOWELL:  17 was obviously a big moment.  I had, whatever, a 12 footer to win, and then I had an eight footer to stay in it.  You always fancy your chance at the last because you've got a little bit extra length.  I played that very well, just caught a bad lie in the rough there which made my pitch very difficult.  Then I hit a nice pitch to 10 and he hit a poor shot in, really, and then he manages to drain a long one.

I played nice on the back nine, didn't play well on the front nine.  That's just the way it goes.
Q.  I walked the whole match.  It was one of these ones where he was scrambling.
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah.
Q.  He never hit a fairway.
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, he drove a terrible front nine, and I just didn't take advantage of that.  He kept making his pars and I was 1 down still that front nine, I think.  That was where I needed to stamp my authority, really, but I didn't play great myself.  Then I played nice on the back nine.

You know, small margins, isn't it?  It's disappointing really because with 2 up, two to play, 1 up, one to play, you fancy your chances.
Q.  You holed a great one on the 13th, too, for a halve?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, 13, I holed a nice putt on 13.  I had a lovely one on 15 and 16, so I had my little run of putts.  It only got me to 1 up, and I guess that wasn't quite enough.  I just ran out of gas on the last two there.
Q.  I presume you take a good week    you take the fact you've had a good week here?
DAVID HOWELL:  I've had a good week, obviously better than I did last year.  But there's no one out there at the moment that you feel you couldn't beat.  All the big guns are gone.  Obviously the other guys are playing really well, but I fancied my chances against anyone that was left in.  Geoff was always going to be a tough match.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT