WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2006
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  David, that was another good one, wasn't it?
DAVID HOWELL:  It was a good win.  I played well the back nine.  Four birdies on the back nine is always good.  You're going to struggle to lose playing like that.  It was a little bit nip and tuck the front nine, but all in all, played well.
Q.  It was close early on, wasn't it, and you just kind of pulled away a little bit?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, well, I gave 9 away to a par, which is always frustrating, but had a good birdie chance on 10, birdied 11, and birdied 13, 14, 15.  It was solid golf.
Q.  You're quite pleased with your year in form, David?  Anything particularly good?
DAVID HOWELL:  No, just starting to play    I'm driving it quite nicely.  It's just all coming together to be honest with you.  Just coming together nicely.  I'm a bit more comfortable on the greens than I was earlier in the year.  That helps, as well.  All in all, for me I'm playing quite nicely.
Q.  You obviously did well in Shanghai and then had a little bit of a slump?
DAVID HOWELL:  For like three weeks, yeah.
Q.  And then you were saying you were working on a lot of stuff.  It's obviously coming?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, my swing, and I've changed my grip a little bit, which obviously takes a little bit of getting used to, and it's better, and I'm just starting to get used to it, I guess.
Q.  Did you start working on that grip
DAVID HOWELL:  Not working on it, I've changed it, and obviously I have to make slight accommodations for it to work properly.  It just is easier now.
Q.  Any key hole today, key shot that you thought changed things your way?
DAVID HOWELL:  I would say 11.  No, I wouldn't say the 8th.  I lost 9, so 11, in the course of the match I had a 12 foot birdie putt and Scott had a five footer that I managed to hole, and he holed, as well, but going 1 down at 11 is never ideal.  Obviously that was a key putt, and then the three birdies in a row.  It was nice to close it out really.
Q.  Have you played him before?
DAVID HOWELL:  Nope.  I've played with him once before in the Open, I think, but never against him.
Q.  Who have you got tomorrow?
DAVID HOWELL:  I've got absolutely no idea.
Q.  It's Mickelson, I think.  I think he's just won.  Obviously we know all about him, but your initial thoughts?
DAVID HOWELL:  I've never played with him actually.  He's a great player, isn't he?  I'm just going to have to go out and shoot a good score.  You can look at it in match play terms or stroke play terms.  You get 5  or 6 under par and anyone is going to struggle to beat you.  It's playing well, isn't it.
Q.  The crowd is going to be with him, isn't it?
DAVID HOWELL:  That's all right.  That's not going to affect me.  It'll make it all the more fun if I win.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT