WGC ALGARVE WORLD CUP
November 19, 2005
Luke Donald
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  We'd like to welcome Team England.  Luke and David, still in great position, and I know you guys didn't quite capitalize on No. 17, just talk about that a little bit.  And maybe Luke, you can talk about how the conditions are a little different from the last two days.

DAVID HOWELL:  Well, 17, yeah, very frustrating.  I'm struggling to calm down from it to be honest with you.  Anybody can 3 putt at any stage, but a pretty good opportunity for eagle, let alone birdie.

So that four ball format, you have to pick up every shot you possibly can, but you can't do everything right, I guess.  So I'm sure I'll calm down after some lunch.  We're still in good shape and looking forward to tomorrow.

Hopefully if we both play well, we're going to have a great chance.

LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, I mean, the conditions, actually I don't know if anyone else was woken up by the rain and storms last night, but we were glad just to be out there and playing.  The fairways were quite wet in places, but still a good chance to post a low score out there.

I think the condition of the course, it was in good shape considering how much rain we got.  It was obviously wet and a little bit colder today which made it a little bit tougher, but it was better than we thought.
Q.  What time were you woken up by the storm?

LUKE DONALD:  I didn't really look, but it was dark.
Q.  Middle of the night?

LUKE DONALD:  About 4:00 AM.  I left the door open, the window open to our hotel room, so woke me up a little bit.
Q.  You left a few strokes out there over the last couple of days, short putts missed, is that something that you try and forget, or is that something that you go and work on?

DAVID HOWELL:  A bit of both, I would say.  You know, Luke missed a couple yesterday but putted nicely today.  As we say, I've got no problems, just missed one short one there.  So nothing untowards in terms of the stroke or anything.  Just came at a bad time there, and it's obviously always harder to forget things toward the end of the round than if it happens on the first or second.

LUKE DONALD:  You take that as a positive.  We missed a few, I missed a few yesterday for sure, and we're still only two shots back.  And two shots in foursomes is nothing.  So we're both very good putters.  I think we'll put great tomorrow.
Q.  What did you hit on that?

DAVID HOWELL:  17?  3 wood, a nice 3 wood in there.  The rest, as they say, is history.
Q.  How far did you have?

DAVID HOWELL:  It was probably 45 foot maybe.  It wasn't a complete debacle.  On our side, equal chance but pretty much straight down the hill and just give it a run and just left myself    leaving it short was always going to leave me a left to righter down the hill which is obviously the trickiest putt you can leave.  That being said, I should have easily knocked it in.
Q.  Just putting that hiccup aside and after your great performance in China, and overall you're playing very well here, is it the sort of case where you don't want the season to end?  Do you want to keep this run going?

DAVID HOWELL:  No, I'm looking forward to a break to be honest with you.  Hopefully it's not just a patch and I'm playing some pretty good golf and I'll have a nice break and I expect to come out playing well next year.  I think you have to take stock when things are going well, as well.  I've had a great year, everything is going well and it will be nice just to put my feet up and take it all in and plan for another good year next year.
Q.  Revenge over Stephen tomorrow?

DAVID HOWELL:  Would be nice, yeah.  (Smiling).  Obviously, it's not just the Welsh boys to beat.  The Swedes are right up there.  I'm not sure who we're going to be playing with, or if we'll be in the last group.

LUKE DONALD:  We should be.

DAVID HOWELL:  I'm sure it will be England versus Wales and a throwback to days of national rivalry, so it should be fun.  We look forward to it.  Obviously I know Stephen and Bradley very well and we'll enjoy trying to take them on.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT