WGC ALGARVE WORLD CUP
November 18, 2005
Luke Donald
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RODDY WILLIAMS:  David, Luke, a great finish there birdieing the last three holes.  Perhaps you can start us off with your thoughts on those closing holes.

DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, we obviously were keen to finish as strong as possible; that goes without saying, I guess.  It had been a struggle all day long really, right from the word go, a typical foursomes day on a dreary bleak, bleak, Portuguese day.  So it was going sort of as badly as you thought it might in foursomes.

You know, we stuck in there and we knew even though we were struggling, we were never far behind.  Obviously it's only Friday, so it was just a case of hanging in there and finish as strong as we could and to get back into the joint lead was a big bonus.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Those three holes clearly turned your fortunes around.  Your thoughts at this stage of the tournament?

LUKE DONALD:  Hopefully that is our bad round out of the way and it didn't really do us any harm.  We still have a share of the lead and the next two days to look forward to.

So it was nice, in a way, to struggle as much as we did those first few holes and still come away still with a share of the lead.
Q.  How good was that 61 out there today?

DAVID HOWELL:  Fantastic obviously.  You've asked a few question this week as to what you think you could score, 59 was always a possibility in the four ball, 61 in foursomes is just fantastic.

Although I mentioned, if two guys play really well, foursomes isn't that difficult.  You can get into the flow and you both play well, it can be in some ways an easy format.  You haven't got so many good shots yourself into row.  Conversely, if you're playing poorly, then it's a real struggle.

So they obviously had a really, really hot day.  And for them to keep going and get to 11 under for one day, well, that's a miraculous round and outdoes our 59 for sure.
Q.  Would you have thought a 61 was possible out there today?

LUKE DONALD:  Well, obviously nothing to take away from their 61 today, they were out first; they probably had nine holes where the wind wasn't quite kicking up as much as what we played in it.

That was fantastic.  I wouldn't have said 61 was on, not in foursomes.  A lot of teams would have been happy with that yesterday in the four ball so, 61 in foursomes is an unbelievable score.
Q.  Details of the last three holes?

DAVID HOWELL:  Luke hit a 3 iron to probably 30 feet on 16, which I managed to roll in.

I hit the drive on 17.  Luke hit his 2 iron through the green.  I pitched to two feet, three feet probably.

Then lovely drive from Luke and a 9 iron to about six feet at the last.
Q.  Yesterday you played very well with the Portuguese team, and today the Argentine team played really well with the Portuguese team and both of you had records; is it easier to play when the other team doesn't play so well and doesn't have the same standard as you have?

LUKE DONALD:  I'd say the opposite.  Usually you like to be in a group where everyone is playing well, you feed off each other usually.  That's how it is with me.

I don't know about you, David.

DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, definitely I'd say that's more coincidence than anything.  But if someone shoots 59 with them again tomorrow, then ask the same question and we'll ask a few different questions of them.  Maybe they are lucky mascots, who knows.  But it's a coincidence.  And they are nice guys, so I'm sure it was a fun group to play in.  (Laughter).
Q.  Whose idea was England's flag on the sleeve?

LUKE DONALD:  It really came about through the EGU, English Golf Union approached both of us and wanted to get a bit more of a team morale, I suppose, try and make it a little bit of a bigger deal.  That's why we've got it on.
Q.  The head covers, as well?

LUKE DONALD:  Yes.
Q.  Anything else?

LUKE DONALD:  Towel.  They even got us some tees but they were too long for me so I don't use them.
Q.  Why the EGU?

DAVID HOWELL:  Well, I think that their director of golf, a gentleman called Peter Matsson, who actually is a Swedish traitor who we've poached to set up, to oversee England's coaching policy.

It's a different setup in Sweden, their union.  It sort of looks after amateurs and pros alike really, a bit different.  But obviously Pete is trying to maybe change things a little bit and encourage England golf to be more one thing rather than the Amateur game and then the professional game.  He's only been there a couple of months, but this is something he used to do in Sweden and he's obviously doing the same now with us.

LUKE DONALD:  Yeah, I think he just wants to    you know, he's interesting to approach the English guys that have gone through the Amateur ranks and have been successful in the professional ranks and he wants to try to figure out what sets them apart from the other guys.  He's been out here all week, had a couple of dinners with him this week.

So I think the EGU are just trying to find ways to I guess get the amateurs in the best possible way to succeed as a professional.

DAVID HOWELL:  And to answer that, I think it would be nice if everyone had the same clothes, anyways.  I think it's good, we're a team.

LUKE DONALD:  Absolutely.

DAVID HOWELL:  Absolutely.  Great.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Good luck over the weekend.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT