HSBC CHAMPIONS TOURNAMENT
November 13, 2005
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  We're very honored to have David Howell, the inaugural winner of the HSBC Champions Tournament.  And to win any time is special, but to win in a tournament with Tiger in the last group must be something you couldn't have dreamed of.
DAVID HOWELL:  Well, maybe something I have dreamed of but probably didn't think was going to come true.  No, obviously this is a big, new event, and we came here looking for a good finish.  And like you say, you end up in the last group with the lead playing with the world's No. 1 player, and you know it's going to be a big day in your career.

Obviously I'm quite pleased with myself, the way I handled myself, and was able to come out on top.  It was a massive learning experience for me today, and hopefully it can really help me in the future, as well.
GORDON SIMPSON:  In career terms, it's pushed you closer to the world Top 10 and over a million Ryder Cup points already, elements that come with winning I suppose.
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, it's wonderful.  I sat down earlier this week my manager and I spoke about my schedule maybe for next year and what emphasis to put on    obviously I want to get in the Ryder Cup, that's the main thing for the upcoming year; but how to go about it, and this is obviously a giant leap on that.  I realize going week by week, we're coming to realize that maybe I am pretty good at this game and I'm able to compete with some of the best players in the world.  You know, it's taken a while to realize that.  My game hasn't always been as good as it is now, but I'm in a great place at the moment.
Q.  Can you talk us that you what's going your mind after the consecutive bogeys on 8 and 9?  And at the end you seemed to say quite a lot to Tiger when you were shaking his hand, what did you say?
DAVID HOWELL:  I'll answer the second part first.  I just said, you know, we're all honored as golfers to have the chance to try and beat him.  He's the world's No. 1, he's become a legend already, and I certainly feel privileged to be playing golf at the same time as he is.  So I guess any time anyone plays against Tiger in the last day like today it's almost like the Fa Cup Final for the underdogs and I was able to come on top, but that was the gist of what I said to him there.

8 and 9, I stood on the 10th tee with a two shot lead, so that takes care of that, really.
Q.  Did you have a key thought to cope with the day and were you still taken a bit back by the hullabaloo?
DAVID HOWELL:  It was a bit more chaotic than I thought I was going to be.  Lots of guys talk about the noise when they play with Tiger and it is pretty bad, in fact; it took me by surprise slightly.

But my key thought was just concentrate on my own game, shot a good score.  I wanted to shoot 65, the target I set for myself.  Obviously I came up short of that, but on last few holes I played quite conservatively when I knew I was in a good position.

So that was the thought that kept me going, just kept trying to put that score on the board and knowing that he would have to beat it.
Q.  You started very well with a couple of birdies and on 8 and 9, you had two bogeys.  When you walked to the 10th hole, your game changed a little.  What was your strategy there?
DAVID HOWELL:  Well, as I mentioned in the question before, I still had a two shot lead on the 10th tee, which is a great position to be in, interesting position to be in with Tiger the person who is two behind.  But obviously the birdie at 10 really settled me down.

A turning point for me was on the 12th.  I didn't hit my tee shot at all well and I got a bit of luck that it bounced on to the green and then holed another good putt.  That was really the turning point I think for the back nine for me, and that just kept Tiger so far back where he had to play really aggressive to try and catch me.
Q.  At what point did you realize that it was in the bag, and just what were your feelings as you holed out?
DAVID HOWELL:  When Tiger missed his putt on 17, I ran the numbers through in my mind and worked out that if he made eagle, I could throw it in the water and make 6 and win, so not until then.  Obviously the way he attacked 16, and I played it safe, made it a lot easier for me obviously.  But really, not until the 17th green, and even then, there's so much water at the last, you can't help but worry about how everything is happening but I was able to do it.  I would say that the 18th tee, back on the fairway I was pretty sure I would win.
Q.  All of the things to happen to Tiger today, what surprised you the most?
DAVID HOWELL:  Sorry?
Q.  Everything Tiger did over the day, which of his shots took you by surprise the most?
DAVID HOWELL:  Well he missed a short putt obviously on 5, maybe, 4 or 5, and that was a big moment really.  Obviously I birdied the hole and so that was a two shot swing.

And then going to 16, you always worry that he's going to do the miraculous shot and make a 2, and I guess there was a slight surprise that something good didn't happen for him on the 16th.  Obviously great advantage to me that it went wrong.

Plus I was slightly concerned that he was going to hit 3 wood onto about 15 feet, which would have made things very difficult.
Q.  After winning the first championship in the new season, how will you spend your prize money?
DAVID HOWELL:  That is a good question.  Unfortunately I've now got    I play a tournament next week and then seven weeks off to think about how to do it.  So if I can get through the winter and save most of it, I'll be a happy man.
Q.  Are you now the player that you always thought you could be or are you exceeding what you hoped for as you turned pro?
DAVID HOWELL:  I'm a better player than I thought I ever would be, and I'm still not satisfied and I think I can be better.
Q.  Two tournaments wins this year, you've raced up the World Rankings, what went right?
DAVID HOWELL:  Well, just lots of hard work, I've got to be honest.  I mentioned in the press conference yesterday or the day before, I'm made big decisions three or four years ago, I basically moved home and joined a new golf club with better practice facilities, changed my coach, employed a physiotherapist, personal trainer.  I've done all I can to be a good golfer, and this is the reward I'm getting.
Q.  You have done a terrific job today, you have such a close lead by the end of yesterday, and you still have 18 holes to play this morning.  When you see Tiger is threatening again, what are you thinking?  What is on your mind?
DAVID HOWELL:  I was nervous all day today, but I'm not so sure it was because of Tiger, strangely.  It was a big tournament and obviously I wanted to win, but golf is a strange game.

Tiger can't affect me.  He can't punch me like in a boxing match; he can't hit the ball at me like in a tennis match.  He can only shoot a score and I can only shoot a score.  So I was more worried with how I cope with myself.

Don't get me wrong, it was a big day because it was Tiger, and it was a big day anyway.  I just treated it    Nick could have been the man that challenged me.  As it happened to be, it was Tiger, so I just wanted to take control of myself and try and shoot a decent score.  I shot 68 and Tiger had to shoot 66 to win and he couldn't manage it.
Q.  Have you tried the local cuisine this week, and if so, what's the most exotic thing you've eaten?
DAVID HOWELL:  I ever tried the local cuisine, and I've ordered very carefully and tried nothing exotic.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Congratulations again, David, and look forward to your defense next week of the World Cup.
DAVID HOWELL:  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT