HSBC CHAMPIONS TOURNAMENT
November 11, 2005
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Just a solid day in the office for you today?
DAVID HOWELL:  Very much so, yeah.  It was just no mistakes out there, I was really pleased to get in without a bogey, and holed a couple of good par saving putts.  Other than that, I wasn't in too much trouble.  I picked up the birdies with some fairly good shots close, didn't hole any long putts.  It was a solid day's golf.
Q.  Is your first visit to China memorable so far?
DAVID HOWELL:  So far, it's fantastic.  We went into Shanghai last night and had a nice meal.  Golf is going well, hotel is great, we could just do with some nice weather and everything will be great.
Q.  You've been in this position many times before going into the weekend.  What are your thoughts going into tomorrow; Tiger, he'll be one or two shots behind chasing you.
DAVID HOWELL:  Obviously there's going to have to be lots more low scoring.  There's nothing to worry about.  I have to go out and shoot another couple of 67s, at least, I'm sure to win this tournament.  That's no easy task at all.  Obviously if I play like I did the first two days, I'm going to have a chance to do that.  The key is to continue playing well.  So that's in my own hands, I guess, but you know, there's some excitement so far.  It's always wonderful to get near the lead after a couple of rounds, and obviously it bodes well to have a good week, but obviously no guarantee of any sort of victory at this stage.
Q.  Can you tell us me how the David Howell of today will cope with having Tiger right behind you, as opposed to the David Howell of about three years ago?
DAVID HOWELL:  I wouldn't say particularly differently.  I've played with Tiger twice, I played with him in Dubai two years ago and thrashed him by a single shot.  (Laughter).

And then I played with him in the Masters last year, or this year and he thrashed me by 12.  (Laughter).  So you can make whatever you want out of that, I guess.

No, with golf, it's just a score, isn't it.  You're not really playing against the opponent.  It's not a tennis match, although you can let the other person intimidate you if you want.  Tiger is obviously the best player, is playing well this week, and if he plays well for him, he's going to be a tough person to beat.  I'll just try and play as well as I can and that see how that matches come Sunday evening.
Q.  I'm sure I've asked you this before, but what was the main thing you learned playing with Tiger at Augusta, about him or about you?
DAVID HOWELL:  That he's very good.  I mean, I was very fortunate this year to play with him in the third round of the Masters, which was a big occasion for me.  I had never been anywhere near the lead of a major after two rounds, and I've witnessed firsthand one of the greatest rounds I'm sure he's ever played or that's been played in a major, so that was very fortunate.  He's got a lot of qualities to match up to and I have to achieve it, too.  I can only do as well as I can.  I'm not kidding myself that I'm anywhere near as good as Tiger, but if I can shoot a decent score and there's no guarantee Tiger can beat that score and that's the beauty of golf.

I can't say that there was any one thing that stood up.  He was used to that situation and coped with playing near the lead in the third round of a major like you would expect him to, and I played like you might expect me to for the first time.  So that's just an experience thing I guess.
Q.  Are you able to turn on the Christmas lights, or are you not the celebrity you are were?
DAVID HOWELL:  Apparently I'm not the celebrity I was last year, and I can't say I'm disappointed.  Not my idea of a fun evening out. (Smiling.)
Q.  Do you feel that there was a turning point in your game this year, or did it all just happen with a natural progression and the success you're now experiencing is what you thought was just around the corner anyway?
DAVID HOWELL:  No, I think what you mentioned, it's just been a natural progression, I've become a better player the last few years and I've worked hard in all departments of my game.  The results have started to show I guess.  What was the turning point, which could have been in a bad way, partly due to injury and coming back so well, you could determine that a turning point.  Obviously I won soon after and I was obviously concerned that it was going to wreck my year and it was going to take a real battle to get back to where I was, but fortunately I've always kicked on.  In a minor way that was a turning point.

That being said, the start of the year, it didn't start overly well.  I had the new experience of playing a lot in America and I wasn't playing particularly well.  And the week at the Masters, certainly, certainly helped me.  I played better, that was a turning point in itself and happened to be the Masters which is obviously then gave me that extra little bit of self belief that I could compete in America.  I knew I could compete in Europe.  I've done both pretty well.

I guess maybe looking back, that was a big week for me.  Had I not played well that week at Masters and gained that experience, maybe the year wouldn't have turned out as well as it has, but now that I think about it, maybe that week after saying it, it wasn't.
Q.  You say you had dinner last night in downtown, what are your impressions of Shanghai downtown?
DAVID HOWELL:  I didn't see much of it.  We got a car straight to a lovely restaurant called Ta, which was very nice.  It was in a nice part of town and it was very pleasant.  I didn't get a look around the markets or anything, so I can't really comment.  But where I was, it was very nice and like most big cities, the night spots are very nice and certainly very nice in Shanghai.
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks again, David, for coming in and keep playing well for the rest of the week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT