DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 29, 2005
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How was that for you?

DAVID HOWELL:  I played nicely today. It's funny how things work out. I played basically nicely and didn't hole anything, then I holed a five iron and it turned into a great day really so I guess it was a lesson in patience there.
Q. What was the distance?

DAVID HOWELL:  I think I had 160 yards. Five-iron, straight into the wind. I was just in the semi rough on the right hand side. I had hit a nice tee shot but just not turned it enough. I had a nice lie and the ball was just above my feet. I had a nice lie, five iron just down the shaft and it was down in all the way, then I heard a couple of people cheering. I couldn't actually see it going in but apparently it just bounced six feet short and trickled in.
Q. Good conditions to play Carnoustie?

DAVID HOWELL:  Yes, it's funny. It can be, but if you get wrong conditions on the other courses then they can be tough as well. St Andrews can be really tough in a strong wind so it as good as you can hope for here at this time of year really. You'll certainly find it tougher on other days. There was a wind out there for sure -- it wasn't overly benign.
Q. How far do you in normally hit the five iron?

DAVID HOWELL:  200 yards. Well probably 190 at this time of the year in Scotland!
Q. Are you playing totally relaxed golf at the moment?

DAVID HOWELL:  Pretty much. I am confident and I am playing nicely and I have learned over the last couple of years that if I play nice I generally contend, so I don't have to worry about contending. If I play nicely for David Howell then I will have a nice week, which is comforting I guess. When things weren't going to plan earlier on today, I still had the feeling that if just keep plugging away then I could have a bit of excitement and fortunately the real strong finish turned it into a great day.
Q. Do you have the feeling that life couldn't get any better for you at the moment?

DAVID HOWELL:  I couldn't ask for any more at the moment -- things are going great. We talked a lot about coming back from the injury and it's strange how things work out. Obviously the injury was a real blow but there's a silver lining to everything and I have come back so much stronger -- it's amazing really.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT