WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 19, 2005
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.    David, that was pretty good, wasn't it?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, I played really well.  I hit a couple of poor shots, which was more concentration more than thinking, but swung the club really well, drove it great, which is always a key for me.  I could have been better really.  I couldn't really have been much worse, so very pleased.
Q.  Especially all that you've been through, how are you feeling with the injury?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yesterday was the first day I didn't feel it at all, so that's great news, pretty much, touch wood, I think I'm over there, so I can concentrate and get back to my golf.  That was obviously pleasing mentally.

Yeah, I shot obviously a very dirty first round last week and followed that with a level par which could have been better, so two nice rounds since, so I'm pleased.
Q.  It's been a bit of a struggle for you to get back to even playing, isn't it?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yeah, absolutely.  It was quite a bad injury.  You always wonder how long it's going to take.  But it was sort of eight weeks, nine weeks in the end, which was what it looked like when I first did it.  It was no worse than we feared, but it was no better, either.
Q.  You were playing so well before it happened.  Do you feel like you're approaching that again?
DAVID HOWELL:  Strangely I'm probably swinging it better.  Looking at how I've played the last few days, I don't think it's going to do me any harm in the long run.  Obviously I've missed a few big tournaments, but I'm certainly rested and ready to go.
Q.  With Tiger and Vijay being up there, does that help you in a way that you know they're not going to come back to you and that you have to go low over the weekend?
DAVID HOWELL:  Well, I guess so, not really.  I wouldn't be really in my mind whatsoever, two days of golf to go.  I obviously want to play as well as I can.  I came back so far today, pleased with it.

You know, as I say, I'm over the injury, so I can start to set some goals now and hope to play well, but one hole at a time.

Obviously the guys are going to keep going I'm sure unless the course gets that much firmer.  But I'm in touch, which is nice.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT