BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2005
David Howell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Your thoughts on the week ahead? You seem to be in great form?
DAVID HOWELL:  Yes, basically the form is good. I have never played fantastically at Wentworth, and even though we have a change of sponsor, there is still the same general feel of the PGA Championship. Hopefully the new sponsor will change my fortunes.
Q. Obviously you can look at the past two weeks in two very different ways?
DAVID HOWELL: Absolutely, I have had a couple of great weeks -- two of the best weeks of my golfing life at the end of the day but I haven't come away with any silverware which is frustrating so there are some mixed feelings but all in all I am staying positive. I had a very different feel after the Irish than I had the week before. The week before I was gutted, I was one in front with one to play and didn't close the deal. Then on Sunday I was behind all day, and while I didn't play great, I still managed to get the job done to a certain degree. I finished strong and just wasn't able to win the play-off. So, very different feelings, and I came away from Sunday a lot more positive than I had done the week before.
Q. Do you think there is a certain amount of luck involved in play-offs, especially sudden-death ones?
DAVID HOWELL:  There is and there isn't. At the end of the day, if I had hit a drive and a three iron to three feet and then tapped it in for a three then I would have won. It's still golf. I don't think it's as brutal as a penalty shoot-out. It's only one hole instead of 72 so it's a short little game but you know what you have to do and at the moment I haven't managed to play one of those holes great yet -- that's three out of three I have lost so that's frustrating because I could easily have four Tour titles and I've got one, so I'll have to make sure that I miss the play-off this week!
Q. Would you take getting into a play-off this week right now?
DAVID HOWELL:  Well, I've got to win one eventually -- I'm not going to lose them all so if luck would have it the other person would play badly even if I don't play well, but I'd take a play-off right now, yes.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT