DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 12, 2008
Anja Monke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BETHAN CUTLER: Like to welcome Anja Monke from Germany, the 2008 French Open champion. And you had a fantastic day yesterday and you started really well today as well, but you just finished with a double-bogey at the ninth hole. So how are you feeling right now?   
 ANJA MONKE: Not bad. To be finishing with a double-bogey is not a great way to finish, because you can't do anything about it afterwards because the round is over. It was an unlucky one, but what can I do?   
 BETHAN CUTLER: What happened exactly?   
 ANJA MONKE: I tried to hit over that fairway bunker in the corner, and I hit it a little bit too far right off my target line.   
 So it went in the bunker, but it sticks like in the bank off the bunker and I really had an awkward stance and the ball would kind of tucked in that ridge. I don't know how could that stay there. Normally they switch it up pretty firm and it bounces back and rolls off to the back off the bunker. That's how the design is I think, and it didn't work out today.   
 So I tried to be a hero and hit it out there towards the green, and it just was a sand wedge, of course. But that didn't work and so I had another try from out of the bunker and then well, I hit it out and then I had like 95 metres left and made a good shot. It was like a two-and-a-half metre putt.  
 BETHAN CUTLER: What was the best part of your game other than that? You had a lot of birdies and you were in contention.   
 ANJA MONKE: Well, I think I was leading pretty a long time this day, but when you make double-bogey it's over. I hit a few good shots but a few bad shots, as well. I wasn't so happy about my game, as well.   
 BETHAN CUTLER: How do you feel about tomorrow and playing in the weekend?   
 ANJA MONKE: Oh, sure, it's fine. Two more days to go and I think there are a lot of birdies out there, which I can make.   
  
  Q. You talk about that bunker shot. What do you think of the course conditions?   
 ANJA MONKE: The course conditions are pretty good. I think it was just an unlucky lie that it pitched in there and didn't have enough to roll back out there. It was one of those unlucky ones, you know. I think that I haven't got anything to do with the shape of the course, and I think the course plays well.   
 The grass on the greens is a little different than I was used to it from like the last two years, but I think the course is in good shape.   
  
  Q. What's the key to playing a low round; is it putting?   
 ANJA MONKE: First to hit it in the fairway and then hit it close to the flag and then you make the putt. That's the only way of making birdies.   
 Make them more often and then you play a bet you are round.   
  
  Q. Now can Annika is playing her last round here. What are your thoughts about Annika?  
 ANJA MONKE: I think for all of us, it's an honour, and for the LET, especially, that Annika plays her last tournament on the LET where she actually started.  
 I think a lot of people will have tears in their eyes on Sunday when Annika walks up the 18th hole. And I think she is the best female golfer we have for the last 10, 15 years, and she has done everything for women's golf in Europe and also all over the world. I think everybody knows her and knows her name and every girl admires her and wants to play well and as well as Annika does.   
  
  Q. Do you think there is anybody that can step into her shoes or it will be a long, long time?  
 ANJA MONKE: I think there are some good players out there. The question is, I mean, because there are more than one really good player at the moment, so they have a little bit more competition in between them. I think that the time of Annika, she was always dominant. I mean, she was No. 1 in the world for, I don't know; you know that statistic better than I do, but more than ten years.   
  
  Q. Do you think that golf will miss that icon like Tiger Woods, that women's golf will miss that factor?   
 ANJA MONKE: No, I don't think so, because there are a lot of good girls playing out there. Just to name, Lorena Ochoa or Paula Creamer who did a great move this year, and then there are a few very good rookies coming on on the LPGA and over here, we have Gladys, who is a really good player.   
 And then a few other girls who are very, very good in my opinion.   
  
  Q. What in your opinion was your dream, what events?   
 ANJA MONKE: Every event I play in, basically. Why not? That's what I come for. So just I mean, you didn't do that --  
  
  Q. People have fantasies when they grow up, maybe winning the British Open; you've won the French Open. Obviously you must be targeting British Open and make it part of a Grand Slam?   
 ANJA MONKE: Well, it's also, what I said, it's a fantasy to win every tournament you play in. But of course it's great to win every tournament. I mean, I don't really care, and it's good if I win a major; if I win a major, it's fine. If I win a tournament on The European Tour, it's great. If I win a tournament on the LPGA, it's perfect. Every win is great.   
  
  Q. Special?   
 ANJA MONKE: Yes.   
 BETHAN CUTLER: Thank you and best of luck for the weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT