AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v YANKEES
October 10, 2001
Roger Clemens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How does your hamstring feel right now?
 
ROGER CLEMENS:   It's pretty numb right now.  We've been icing off and on since I've come out of the game.  
 
Q.  I guess you felt a twinge when you were fielding that ball?
 
ROGER CLEMENS:   Right.  
 
Q.  Past experiences, do you have any way to gauge on what the recovery on this might be?
 
ROGER CLEMENS:   I don't right now but I just know we are going to get after it tomorrow and get back to the same treatment.  I don't know that it had anything to do when I slid into first base the last game of the season in Tampa.  Just a couple quick movements tonight and I felt the tightness in it.  So, really, all in all, I felt once it happened, I knew I was going to have to stay up over the rubber and make some good pitches and keep the game really close.  For the most part, I made every pitch I wanted to make tonight, and I think even the home run was down where I wanted it, maybe six, eight inches off the ground.  I have not been victimized too many times by right field here. I think 2-1, 3-1, we've still got a really solid chance.  Then we go down 5-1, and then Tino hit the homer.  Made things more interesting toward the end.  
 
Q.  Can you describe how the injury affects you when you are pitching? 
 
ROGER CLEMENS:   Well, you know it's there, but I can still feel I can make the pitches, and you just have to alter a little bit when you push off the mound.  Ones you realize it's there, that's half the battle, and so you don't get wild in the zone.  You know, I featured a ball on all four corners pretty much all night.  Jorge and I were working all four corners, in and out, up and down on both sides.  I was able to make the pitches I wanted to make and not give in, not give in there, and just keep the game fairly close.  
 
Q.  Is it the push-off leg?  Leg? 
 
ROGER CLEMENS:   Right, my right leg. 
 
Q.  Were you feeling it in the early innings at all?
 
ROGER CLEMENS:   I don't know that I really felt it early.  But definitely after that play.  I went over to hurry when I planted it, it felt like a zinger, a burn, and then I bobbled it and I was trying to hurry again and I felt the same thing again and I just stopped at that point, instead of just trying to make the play. 
 
Q.  Is what you just said that you feel you would be able to pitch in Game  5 and make adjustments? 
 
ROGER CLEMENS:   I'm going to have to wait until tomorrow to evaluate it.  But, you know, if I don't have a tear or something extremely bad in it and they are going to let me go out there, I'm going to go out there and pitch and try to beat somebody.  I don't really worry about injuries, if they are soreness or swelling at this time of year.  Just do what you can. 
 
Q.  Last year you lost the first game but went on to win the series; can you talk about the confidence you have in your ballclub to come back and do it again?
 
ROGER CLEMENS:   We had some tremendous at-bats, even when the game was close, we had a couple  -- they had a couple breaks and we had a couple breaks go against us.  You're going to have some close games in playoff games.  You know, we're going to come right back out and try to get it done tomorrow.  We've been in the position before, and we'll come out battling again tomorrow, as hard as we can go.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT