U.S. OPEN
September 10, 2017
Axel Geller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Y. WU/A. Geller   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Are you friendly with Schwartzman, seeing you're in the same industry?  
AXEL GELLER: Yeah, we've trained together sometimes.  I actually played some practice sets with him and we have the same fitness coach so, yeah, I know him well.  I'm really happy for him.  I think he deserves it.   
 Q.  How do you feel today's match went?  Were you surprised by how aggressive he played or did you kind of ...  
AXEL GELLER: No.  I know him well.  I think he expected to play that way.  At 4-0 in the first set, I just lost a little bit of focus for about 20 minutes, 25.  I lost the match six games in a row.  I tried to fight back.  I was loose, but I think maybe it was a little bit too late.  So I think he played very well.   
 Q.  You saved six match points in that game.  Did that energize you?  Did it change your mindset at all?  
AXEL GELLER: Yeah, it helped.  I think I wanted to fight back, make him beat me, and that's what he did the last game.  He hit two big serves, one winner, and then the last point I went for it and I missed.   
But I guess I made him win it, at least that's I think one of the few things I did well today.   
 Q.  Was there any other -- when you walked out onto the court after having done the same thing at Wimbledon, was there any flashbacks to that?  Did you feel it was different for you this time?  
 A. I think no.  I was even more relaxed a little bit better in terms of that, but I don't know.  I tried not to be nervous so then I did the same thing as always but a bit more, even more like relaxed and maybe that could have affected me at that moment when I just lost concentration.   
 At one point, I couldn't feel my body when I was serving.  Like I was out of like -- I was not, I guess, mentally there at some point, but again, I was able to play pretty well.  So I'm happy for him.   
 Q.  And you're heading -- you're going straight from here to Palo Alto?  
AXEL GELLER: I have to fly in half an hour.  I need to leave for the airport in half an hour.   
 Q.  Anymore questions in English.  Are we good?  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT