NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 8, 1999
Larry Dierker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did you consider walking Joe in his 12th?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: No. I didn't think -- gosh, I never thought of that. 
 
Q. Do you regret that?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: No. I really wish that he would have hit a home-run instead. What are
you going to do? If you load the bases and you have a guy that might hit somebody, you
still have a guy that would walk up there. You have a guy that would pitch around him. I
want to make a guy hit a real tough pitch. I don't want to have someone throw one down the
middle of Jones. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the 10th, the missed opportunity where they had the bases loaded?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: It wasn't just the 10th. We had a million opportunities. It was, you
know, you can't keep going out there and score nothing inning after inning after inning.
How many innings went by where we only had to score one run? It was pretty weak. 
 
Q. It was a good pitch -- the hit -- who are you talking about? Was a good pitch?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: You probably know better than I do. I can't see where the pitch is. It
could have been a good pitch. It looked like it might have been a good pitch. Obviously,
it didn't turn out that way. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the pitch on the home-run?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: It was a slider. I don't know where it was. It was a slider. I don't
know if it was in the middle of the plate or in. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 LARRY DIERKER: I think with Tony up there, we probably would have put the infielder
back for a double play, but how can you second guess it because, you know. It worked. I
mean, I can't believe that you would walk a man from first to second with first and third
to pitch to Caminiti. I mean, when it works, it's great. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 LARRY DIERKER: If it was back, it might have gone through. There were about three or
four line bats. If I hit a line drive to him here, he would play up the middle. You know,
it was pretty amazing. Well, if the ball would have been right at him, they would have
made a double play on it. It could have been placed even worse, but I mean Weiss made an
unbelievable play. Drive your ball out there and hope it all goes in. I would say even
with a player of his caliber, probably 80 percent of the time you don't get lucky like
that. 
 
Q. How do you get the team up?
 
 LARRY DIERKER: We are going to have a pep rally. That's what we are going to do.
 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT