NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 4, 2001
Ray Bourque
Patrick Roy
Joe Sakic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  I was wondering if you guys maybe were a little too overeager in the first period forcing things.  It seems like there were more outnumbered attacks that you guys have had in a long time?

RAY BOURQUE:  I think you are right on there.  We gave up maybe 6 outmanned situations, two on ones or breakaways and I think we turned the puck over way too much tonight and they did a good job neutralizing to do that, but we've got to do a better job in executing what we want to try to do out there.  There were way too many outmanned situations, especially a team like Jersey will capitalize on those things.


Q.  Patrick, it's the first time a team has lost back-to-back in the series.  How do you keep your guys up going back, believing they can win? 

PATRICK ROY:   I think it is time to regroup and be positive and find solutions.  Like we mentioned in the beginning of the series, we are going there and we will try to bring them back with us.


Q.  Ray, you knew it wasn't going to be easy.  But if you come back and now can pull two games out of the hat, winning your first Cup is going to be even more special, don't you think? 

RAY BOURQUE:   Sounds great to me.  That's the plan.  There's no quit in us.  Obviously we have lost the last two games and that is disappointing, but we are still alive and we have all the intentions of coming back here for Game 7.  That is the plan and we are going to go to New Jersey and we are going to get it done.  We are going to find a way.


Q.  Ray, the turnovers you guys had being a little aggressive in the first period, is that a sign of maybe being a little frustrated against their trap and losing patience?

RAY BOURQUE:   I don't think it's frustration.  I think it is trying to create more offense.  I think the last couple of games have been real easy for Martin Brodeur and we want to try to create more and we are going to have to create more.  But we are going to have to do it in a way where we don't get caught and we don't turn the puck over or we don't get caught deep in their zone where we are giving them outmanned situations.  We are going to have to make some adjustments and we will.


Q.  Ray, following up the last question, the previous question, is it frustrating to you to have been so close up, 2 to 1 with the one goal lead in the last game and now have to dig out? 

RAY BOURQUE:   That's where we are and you know, you don't get frustrated.  You try to find solutions.  And in my case every game is a new life for us and you try to make the adjustments and, you know, we are down 3-2, but it is a long way from being over.  We have every intention on bringing it back to Denver for Game 7.  There's no time to get frustrated in the Finals.  That could only hurt you.  So you try to stay positive and just make the adjustments and go from game to game.


Q.  Joe, you have already showed everyone that you can win in New Jersey.  Talk about the little things that you need to do to go ahead and win in Game 6.

JOE SAKIC:  I think we definitely made too many mistakes tonight.  Guys came out skating, worked hard.  We gave up a couple of pretty good chances.  We have to avoid that, obviously.  The big thing is to get off to a good start.  You definitely want to try to play with the lead against that team and that's what we are going to look to do in Game 6.


Q.  Ray, I was wondering how much gas you have left in the tank.  It has been a fairly punishing series. 

RAY BOURQUE:   I have got plenty.  It's  -- I mean, I've got plenty of juice left.  Believe me.  It hasn't been that punishing.  I have been punished worst against L.A.  and St. Louis and came out of that fine and feeling fine now and we got a couple of days to regroup before our next game.  We will be ready to go.


Q.  Joe, were you surprised to see Holik come out as center of the A Line in Arnott's place;  what effect do you feel it had on the game? 

JOE SAKIC:  Well, am I surprised?  Not really.  Obviously they wanted to put him against our line and we always try and play against the other team's top line.  He just moved up in that position.  The effect, I mean, it was pretty easy  -- once they got 2-goal lead, they like to play their trap and they really bottle you up.  They wouldn't be nearly effective if we had the lead and we could dictate our play.


Q.  Patrick Ray keeps mentioning the word frustration.  How frustrating was it for you?

RAY BOURQUE:   I had not mentioned frustration.  I was asked about frustration.  I didn't mention frustration. 


Q.  Okay.  I just want to know how frustrating it was for you considering they kept coming at you with all these odd-man rushes?

PATRICK ROY:   Like Ray said nobody here is frustrated.  We try to find a solution and make sure we are ready for Game 6.  We obviously know we could play better and in every game we had our chance.  We were right there.  Like Joe said let's have a good start in Jersey and let's try to bring them back to Denver for Game 7.


Q.  Joe not to bring up the word frustration again, but top centers in previous years against this team have had major trouble with Holik.  Are you personally starting to feel that in the last two games, or no?

JOE SAKIC:  No.  I mean, you are getting some chances.  You can't get frustrated out there.  All you can do is go out there and try and create some chances.  Like I mentioned I mean, it is a totally different game if you are playing with the lead.  For us that's what we are going to try to do is get out to a lead and play our style and they won't have to worry so much about checking.


Q.  Joe, in terms of the last two games, they did a good job on you with the other lines not producing offensively.  Is this a time where you miss Peter maybe than any other point that you have been without him?

JOE SAKIC:  Like we said before we'd love to have him and we don't and there is no excuses.  We have to find a way to get the job done.


Q.  Patrick, as much as I am sure you would have liked to have seen the puck go in.  As a veteran goalie can you appreciate the timely save that Marty made at the end of the second period off Eric Messier?

PATRICK ROY:   I don't recall.  Which save are you talking about? 


Q.  Okay, then no use in asking the question.

PATRICK ROY:   You're welcome. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT