NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: AVALANCHE v RED WINGS
May 27, 2002
Joe Sakic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Does Peter ever stop amazing you?  He's been doing this all playoff long after not playing all year.

JOE SAKIC: We're getting used to that.  It was kind of nice to see him play like that.  It's a huge win for us.

Q.  Joe, were you guys looking for a penalty there at the end when Hasek looked like he threw his stick?

JOE SAKIC: I don't know.  I didn't really see it.  At the end of what?

Q.  Regulation.

JOE SAKIC: I didn't notice.  I knew Patrick came out.  I don't know why.

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about Patrick and the saves he made tonight?  He really held down the fort for you guys.

JOE SAKIC: It's something we're used to.  He's always in good position.  I mean, when you come down, there is not a lot of room to see the net.  So, I mean, it's the one thing when you got the best goalie in the game, you're always going to be in the game.

Q.  You have been involved in all these great overtime playoffs.  The home team has never won.  How do you explain that?  Is that a pressure thing?

JOE SAKIC: I don't know.  I really don't know.  It must be just coincidence.  Last game, we had a bad line change and they scored, and it was almost the same thing the other way around today.  They were changing, and we got a good break there.

Q.  How hard is it going to be to lock down Game 6 on Wednesday night?

JOE SAKIC: We know it's going to be extremely difficult.  They're going to be at their best, and we have to step it up as well.  Tonight's game was a lot better than the previous two games for us.  Hopefully we will keep building on that.  I know it's going to be hard.  It's not going to be easy.  We're going to have to be at our best and play well and hard.

Q.  Joe, can you comment on Forsberg in terms of his play and how you guys react to it?  Even with the fans, he's almost on a different level as everyone else.  And since he took the whole year off, can you talk about how astounding it is?

JOE SAKIC: It's really amazing.  But if you saw him when he came back and how hard he worked to get back, this is the best shape he's ever been in.  He's rested, excited and good things are happening for him right now.  It's great for our hockey club.  It takes so much pressure off everybody else.  You can just play.

Q.  Joe, in this playoff series you guys have played in Game 6 and 7.  How much will experience be a factor since the Red Wings have cruised pretty easily through the playoffs?

JOE SAKIC:  They've got a pretty experienced hockey club so I'm sure they've all been in this situation as well.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT