BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 4, 2016
Chad Brown
Javier Castellano
Bob Edwards
Kristine Edwards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, the winner of the Breeders' Cup Juvenile Fillies Turf was New Money Honey.  And we're joined now by the winning connections from right to left, trainer Chad Brown, jockey Javier Castellano, owner Bob Edwards and his wife, Kristine Edwards.  Thank you all for being here.  Congratulations.  Congratulations to you all.  Chad, let's start with you, and maybe you can just give us your impressions of how the race was run.
CHAD BROWN: Well, Javier gave her a beautiful trip.  We talked about it, if she could break clean and be up in the forward group and somehow get clear at some point in a big field, which is a lot to ask, she'd have a good shot because she's training so well.  I've had so much success with Javier, and we have great chemistry together.  He studies the races very well.  And if he's ridden a horse before, he learns a lot from it and applies it to the next race.
This is a situation of a young horse that's getting better and a jockey that really understands her, and just executed a perfect plan once we put him up on the horse.
THE MODERATOR: Javier, you did ride her your first two starts.  Tell us what you learned and what unfolded today?
JAVIER CASTELLANO: I really like the way she did it today.  I'm very satisfied, and I have a lot of confidence with the filly.  And thank you, Mr. and Mrs. Edwards, for the opportunity, and Mr. Brown.  Mr. Brown, he's got something special for me, and I really appreciate him for that, because I had a lot of confidence in putting a lot of successes together, and he gave me something special today to perform the horse with the best part.  And approaching to 14 horses is not easy in the Breeders' Cup, and especially when you have a young horse.  The filly, she's amazing.  She's a great developer.  She's got a good mind.  She saved on the first turn, she cut it off, and she went through the little hole, and then I tipped her up on the side and she gave me a powerful kick and run the last part of the race.
THE MODERATOR: Bob, your impressions and what this experience and what it feels like to win this race?
BOB EDWARDS: It's a great experience.  We're new owners, as you guys know.  We have not won a maiden, as you know.  We've only won Stakes races thanks to great horses, great talent, great Bloodstock agents, and we're pretty excited for her to take her talent down to South Beach.
THE MODERATOR: It's nice when you can only win Stakes races.  Chad, the Miss Grillo, what a race, the key race in here.  Your other filly ran well and came on at the end too.  So just talk about the turf juveniles coming out of New York today?
CHAD BROWN: Yeah, they ran well.  It's been a key prep race for this particular Breeders' Cup Race.  It's the third time we've won the race, and all of them were Miss Grillo winners, New York has a fantastic program.  And I need to give them credit because great training facilities.  I do all my training back home before I ship in for these races, and they always make the turf course available and around weather and whatever I need back home at my home base.  Even if the Breeders' Cups not held there.  So thanks to NYRA, for allowing us the facilities to get this filly here.  It is a strong group.  My other horse came on strongly.
I tell you, it was a really good field.  Again, we've competed in this race virtually every year since they've had it, and I thought this was one of the stronger editions of it on paper.
Q. Chad, third race of her career, a performance like this.  What's it say about her future?
CHAD BROWN: I'll tell you, I think sky's the limit for her.  I think a mile is about as short as she wants to run, and Javier and I spoke about it in the days leading up to the race and all the way to the paddock about how she has a great post and she's training terrific.  But a mile is just a tough short for her, and you're going to have to really work out a good trip.  I think with that said, with all the big races next year being longer than a mile, I think this filly has an unbelievable future, and it's the first horse in this race I've ever cross-entered in the dirt race because she trains well on dirt as well.
So we're going to enjoy this.  She won on the turf.  Thankfully we made the right call.  But it's not even out of the question that we give her a spin on the dirt before a race like the Kentucky Oaks just to be sure.  I think she's that talented.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT