TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 23, 2018
Adrian Frye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So this is the first time you've been playing in Iowa.  What have you heard about the big time atmosphere over there?  
ADRIAN FRYE: From my stories I've heard, everybody says it gets real cold up there.  Sometimes the grass freezes over, and it's like playing on icicles.   
 Q.  Have you ever played in that cold of an environment before?  
ADRIAN FRYE: I've never played in an icy environment.  I've played in real cold weather, and it was raining, so something similar.   
 Q.  Halloween's coming up.  What are you going to go as?  You haven't thought about that yet?  
ADRIAN FRYE: I haven't thought about that yet.  I'll still think about it.   
 Q.  Adrian, what did you think when you found out you received that midseason All-American Second Team recognition last week?  
ADRIAN FRYE: I was really surprised because I didn't even know that I was ranked that high among other DBs in the nation.  I knew that I was tied for first in the interceptions because one of my teammates told me after the game they had counted it as an interception against TCU.  I thought it would be counted as a fumble.   
After that, I was like okay.  I was feeling good because I was tired.  I didn't know I was going to get Second Team All-American status or whatever, so that kind of shocked me.   
 Q.  Who all did you hear from, either phone calls or text messages or social media, about that?  
ADRIAN FRYE: On Twitter, I got a lot of retweets, quotes of everybody thanking me and telling me to keep doing what I'm doing, especially like old teammates and old friends from back home.  And then I got a call from my mom about it because I didn't tell her.  I didn't tell her I found out, so she was a little upset that I didn't come out and tell her immediately.  So she gave me a little fussing about that.  But mostly just getting calls and texts from my friends.   
 Q.  How do the Iowa State receivers look to you on film?  What kind of jumps out at you about them?  
ADRIAN FRYE: They're real big.  They're real big guys.  They're tall like T.J. Vasher and Antoine Wesley, but they've also got size on them too.  The guys are like 6'6", 215, 220, real big, solid guys.  All of them guys can run.  None of them are slow poke guys.  So really just the speed factor and then the size on top of that that stands out on film.   
 Q.  You mentioned T.J. and Antoine.  How often do you go up against those guys in practice?  Do you feel like you've got a handle on this because you go up against those guys?  
ADRIAN FRYE: All spring I was going up against T.J. and Antoine, when he was healthy, so like I was kind of getting a little used to the size factor and having to play through those long-armed guys.  And going into fall camp, it was the same way.  So it's kind of a little bit at home thing since I see them guys every day at practice, but those guys are also a lot heavier than T.J. and Antoine.  So that weight factor will be a little different.   
 Q.  You guys were harping on eliminating giving up those big plays.  Last couple weeks you have.  What have you been working on specifically in practice to limit those?  
ADRIAN FRYE: Well, in the passing game, we preach never let the ball go over our head.  So we try to make that a main focal point as far as the passing game is concerned.  And with the run game, we try to mention in every play call, if it's a gapped out defense, make sure we're gapped out and we do our assignments.  Make sure, if we get a hand on them, if we get a chance to make a tackle, then we wrap them up and get them down.   
 Q.  Against a guy like Montgomery in the secondary, do you have to be more aware of what he's doing than in other games?  
ADRIAN FRYE: Yes, I'd say we have to be more aware because that's a smart running back.  Not many running backs play the way he does.  With him being as smart as he is and also as physical as he is, we have to make sure we know what he's doing and how he's doing it.   
 Q.  Is one of the biggest problems being in the secondary the play action with him.  Since he's always a threat, you guys have to be able to tell what schemes they're in, or how do you usually defend against those types of plays with a back like that?  
ADRIAN FRYE: I'd say that's more hard on the linebackers since those guys mainly have a run fit rather than the secondary.  With us in the back end, we make sure we have good eye discipline, make sure we're keying on what we need to key on because we're in man coverage, unless we're keying on our man because one small mistake in the back end is detrimental.   
 Q.  With two large games kind of looming in the next couple weeks, how easy, difficult, is it for you individually and for you all as a team to kind of stay focused on that week by week and not get caught looking forward?  
ADRIAN FRYE: We try to make sure that we're always on top of our game.  We don't want to get complacent because complacency is a big issue for success.  If we get complacent, it can go downhill real fast.  So we just make sure that we're always on top of our things and make sure we stay focused in the long run because, at the end of the day, every team wants to win the conference championship.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT