ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2020
Amanda Butler
Kobi Thornton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clemson - 68, Miami - 56
THE MODERATOR: Okay. We have to my far left, head coach, Amanda Butler. Coach, when you are ready?
AMANDA BUTLER: First of all, we competed really, really hard because we knew we had to because we have so much respect for Miami. That program and the position they can put you in on both ends of the court. You know, just a really good ball team with some outstanding players.
I think our effort and Kobi's response is 100% about us and who we want to be, but at the same time we knew we were going to have to play our guts out to compete better with them than we had earlier in the year.
Really, really proud of the team effort, no matter how adversity kept presenting itself but super proud of Kobi Thornton playing like a senior with that urgency and confidence and aggressiveness that I felt like only seniors can bring and she led us and we followed.
Q. Coach, Miami came back and took a lead on you in the third quarter and all of the sudden you turned loose a run that put them away to end the third quarter. What did you see that caused y'all to be able to do that?
AMANDA BUTLER: I thought we had a great deal of composure with our guards and that's something we have struggled with a lot this year and our goal all along this year has been the same, we want to be better and better each day and I think you see the accumulation of a lot of improvement of our primary ball be handlers, doing their job, making their teammates feel confident, getting the ball across half court against the press and our team taking advantage of whatever was there.
Q. Coach, two years in a row now you have come in and won at least one game in the tournament and I think that is the first time it's been done at Clemson since 2008-2009. How difficult is it to win games here?
AMANDA BUTLER: This is the best tournament in the country. To be able to come in here and be successful regardless of what day you're playing o what team you're playing against, is a big accomplishment for just about any team in this league. We all have so much respect for one another. For our program and where we are trying to take steps toward it's a huge demonstration of improvement which is really important for team 45 as I already mentioned but also for where our program is headed and I also think it's a big part of our seniors legacy to be able to come in here two years in a row and compete the way they have and bring their best when their best was required.
Q. Kobi, 27 points tonight you shot 75% from the floor. How much fun was this one?
KOBI THORNTON: This win was very fun, you know, coming into this tournament we had 0 on 0 mindset and we were hungry, we were starving, we wanted to win and we'll do whatever it takes to win.
Q. Kobi, leading a majority of the game and up by 15 at one point, what are you telling your teammates to keep them pushing and not let up and let Miami in the game?
KOBI THORNTON: Well, in that moment came in the game I'm just telling them, we worked too hard for this, don't let up, we worked too hard.
THE MODERATOR: We will see you guys tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT