THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2011
Rod Spittle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. That was some round of golf today. 
 ROD SPITTLE: Thank you very much. We had a great group, as I mentioned to Phil yesterday, everybody played pretty well. We all got off to a pretty solid start again today. 
 And all of a sudden -- bear with me -- I birdied No. 9 and made a bunch of birdies on the back nine, hit it close most of the way around. So it's very nice to be obviously in this position halfway through the tournament.

 Q. What do you make you of Walton Heath; first trip here?
 ROD SPITTLE: First trip, absolutely. I was here, this is the second time I've been over here to play. I played a couple of years ago when it was in Scotland. And my son is caddying for me this week. So we just had to come over.
 And as you know, it's just so much different than what we're used to back home. That's what makes it so fun. So we will hopefully have as much fun these next few days as well. So it should be pretty neat.

 Q. I know you've told this story many times, but for those who are not aware, you only turned pro seven years ago. So are you catching up for lost time? It must be a great thrill playing at this sort of level. 
 ROD SPITTLE: It's a thrill beyond words. It really is. And you're exactly right. We turned pro -- I turned pro at 49. And, of course, we were very fortunate to have won the last tournament of the year last year in San Antonio, which gives us the chance to play this year. So, again, this is still kind of new for us, obviously. 
 And one of the reasons that we came over, we have this tournament, and then we play back in Ohio next week obviously for the Senior Open. So it has been -- I've used up all my words as I continue to tell folks. 
 It's just great to -- it's always fun to play well, of course, but to be part of the Champions Tour and to be able to come over like this is really a thrill.

 Q. Must beat the world of insurance. 
 ROD SPITTLE: Beats the world of just about anything else. That's for sure. I always enjoyed my insurance career, but this is a whole lot more fun. There's no doubt about it.

 Q. So what about the weekend, right up there, top of the leaderboard, a lot to play for; how exciting is that? 
 ROD SPITTLE: It's very exciting. And so the challenge, the play challenge, of course, would be to slow down and breathe, try not to fall down, and continue to do the things we've done these last couple of days. 
 But, again, to say I played very well is an understatement, but I've driven it real well. We've kept it out of the long stuff. 
 And, again, hopefully, the other players have told you, if you can drive it in the fairway you have a chance to score. So that will be our game plan for the next two days. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT