SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2016
Rod Spittle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So, first of all, great round.  Nine birdies.  What happened out there?
ROD SPITTLE: I tell you what, it's just one of those things.  I played well yesterday, I think I hit 14 or 15 greens.  So it was a solid start.  I shot a couple under.
This is my third time here.  So we kind of know our way around a little bit.  But, yeah, it would be nice if that happened every day, of course.  But it just so happened, I mean, I had, again, I hit a bunch of greens again and had it in the right places and I'm sure everybody's told you that.  That has a lot to do with it.
I'll have to sleep with my putter tonight because, obviously, after awhile, I just made a whole bunch of putts.  So it was a lot of fun.  That's for sure.
Q. You talk about rolling in a bunch of putts, what are the greens out here like this week compared to the last two times?
ROD SPITTLE: Again, the greens are -- again, hopefully everybody is telling you the same thing -- I mean, the greens are very, very tricky.  Again, I had heard that they had softened them or flattened a few of them, but I didn't find any, first of all.
But again, whether -- you just have to be on the right side of the bumps or humps, then it's just extremely difficult if you're not.  Even when you hit good shots, they can still bounce sideways or the wrong way.
Like I said, I just don't think I was ever in too much trouble.  Again, probably hit the same thing, 14 or 15 greens, just made a whole bunch of putts.  So, it would be real fun to do the same thing the next couple days.
Q. Take it into the weekend, right?  You put yourself in great position.
ROD SPITTLE: Absolutely.  I think that's all you can do.  Again, there's no secret, really, just, I drove it in the fairway all day, I don't think I was ever in trouble, and probably got it up-and-down a couple times, which of course you have to, but I just had it in some fairly flat spots.
The greens are very fair speeds.  If you don't have a hump in your way, that is.  I just had a bunch of good runs at it today and made a couple more than probably I was supposed to.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT