NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SENATORS v DUCKS
May 30, 2007
Teemu Selanne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TEEMU SELANNE:  It's unbelievable.  You know, I told you before, it's not about Chris Pronger, it's not about Scott Niedermayer; it's all about us.  This team is exactly as good as our worst player feels, and that's the toughest part, to raise everybody's level.  And I think this team has done a great job so far.   
  
  Q.  Teemu, they got to beat you four out of five (indiscernible)?   
 TEEMU SELANNE:  I hope not.  The main focus is in our dressing room here.  We want to keep playing better.  We have to raise the level.  We know we're going to go there.  They have a home crowd behind them.  They're going to be better.  We want to be better.  We'll go from there.   
  
  Q.  You said before they even dropped the puck you were going to enjoy the ride in the Stanley Cup Finals.  How do you describe being up 2-0?   
 TEEMU SELANNE:  It's unbelievable feeling, obviously.  And we have done some good job, but, you know, like I said, it's time to enjoy, but still there's a lot of hard work ahead, you know.   
 Nothing is going to come for free.  We have to fight every inch, and so far so good.  But we just have to keep pushing.  Ten minutes enjoy and then move on.   
  
  Q.  Giggy stopped more five-on-threes in the playoffs than five-on-fours.  Can you talk about when he stopped that five-on-three?  It's still collective team stopping it, obviously, but is that an emotional pickup?   
 TEEMU SELANNE:  You know, what I have said before about Giggy, I don't know how much more I can say about this guy.  He's unbelievable.  And the biggest challenge for him the better he plays.  So obviously five-on-three again, I don't like those five-on-threes.  We have to be smarter, but when we - both games you have give on five-on-three power play for them.  And we just can't keep doing that.  We have to be smarter, but when we needed Giggy, he was there.  Great job.   
  
  Q.  Two wins away from your first ever Stanley Cup, what are you thinking right now?   
 TEEMU SELANNE:  I just try to go one day at a time and one game at a time.  Not to just - not think about too much the future.  But obviously we have played pretty solid and we're happy about that.  But let's go one game at a time.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about just the effort of this checking line again?  The job they've been doing, unheralded for too much of the regular season?   
 TEEMU SELANNE:  I don't know what I can say about those guys.  They have been unbelievable the whole year.  And obviously I'm so happy that the people can see how good they are.   
 And I'm so happy that Sammy Pahlsson has been nominated the Selke, because he's outstanding.  You don't know how good the guy is unless you see him on a day-to-day basis.  The same with the line.  They are proud to do their job and offensive they spark out when they need to.  Unbelievable job.   
  
  Q.  Do you think this is one of the best games that this team has played in the post season?   
 TEEMU SELANNE:  I think one of them.  I think we're very good in every area.  The only thing I didn't like was five-on-three.  We don't have to give any chances more than that.  But other than that, it was good, solid 60 minutes.  I think we deserved to win this one.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT