REPUBLIC NATIONAL MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 23, 1999
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ATP:  Questions for Carlos.  
 
Q.  Was the blister on your thumb an important factor in that match?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No, no, it was not problem.  Just that I had to cut the dead skin, you know.  It was moving.  But it didn't hurt, so I don't think it was a problem.  It's just he played better than me, that's it.  
 

Q.  You said you thought that clay could be an important factor in changing the result of the last two matches against Golmard.  Did you find it different, because of the surface here?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Not that much (laughter).  I thought it was going to be a bigger factor.  No, he was playing great, you know.  I think I played a good match, but in the important moment, maybe he play better than me.  By the way, I never saw any player hitting as many lines as he did today.  It was unbelievable.  Here when the ball hits the line, it goes so fast, you know.  But I'm not going to say he's been lucky.  He took many risks, and today he played  -- the balls are going in.  Doesn't matter if it was an clay or hard, it was going to be the same score, I think.  
 

Q.  You're not the only Top 10 player that he seems to play well against.  He's had some good wins against others.  Is there anything particularly difficult that you have to try to find out against him?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think he has improved a lot since last year.  He's a tough player to beat.  You know, he has a good serve.  He hits hard from both sides.  When he's playing well, he's very difficult to beat.  Today, tennis today is very close.  Any player can beat Top 10 player.  But I wouldn't say he's a regular player.  I think he's a very good player.  Maybe soon he's going to be Top 10 or no, but he has the potential.  If he keeps playing like this, he's going to be dangerous in the future.  
 

Q.  You seemed to be pretty in control of the match at 3-3 in the second set.  What happened at 3-3, 4-3?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  He cramped.  That was the problem.  Since then, he didn't miss any ball.  I cramped just once in my life, I could not even walk.  So should cramp more often (laughter).  I don't know.  I don't know what happened there.  Since then, he called the trainer, and he hit every ball, you know.  Every ball was going to the line, winner.  I could not believe it.  It was like a joke.  I thought I was winning.  He was cramping.  He could not miss any ball.  He was running like rabbit, serving like unbelievable.  So that was the key, that he got cramped.  
 

Q.  In spite of that, by the end of the match, were you hoping that he would cramp for good completely? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No.  There was one ball that he almost fell down, you know.  After that, I didn't win any point.  Winners were coming every time, you know.  I could not do anything.  Maybe in that moment I was so pissed off, you know, that I could not put the ball in.  It was too late maybe when I realized that.  Anyway, he was playing unbelievable, hitting winners everywhere.  It happens, you know.  
 

Q.  Was that ball that went over down the clifftop a cry for help or just frustration?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Oh, it was frustration.  I think I send it to Spain, that ball (laughter).  I was feeling desperate, you know.  It seemed to me that I could not do anything.  He was hitting everywhere, running, doing everything well, you know.  Maybe after that ball, I thought maybe I'm going to be more concentrated or focused, but it didn't work.  So all what happened after that ball is I'm going to get a fine for sure.  It was not really well.  
 

Q.  Have you ever had that feeling before against another player than him today? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I don't remember.  I wouldn't say I played a bad match, you know.  Just maybe my level is not enough to beat this guy or -- I don't know, I don't know what's wrong.  I was kind of desperate, I was hitting hard, and the ball was coming back even harder, you know, on the line, aces.  It was like a nightmare, you know.  Maybe he should go to casino tonight (laughter).  He gets the big one, for sure.  
 

Q.  He's very good, but is there anything in your game that is not as good as you would like it to be at the moment? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Maybe my serve.  Last week, it's not working that well, you know.  I had some problems with the finger, as you know.  Today has been the second day that I play without the bandage.  I lost my grip, you know, a little bit.  I had no sensibility (sic) last week.  Suddenly I play as I used to play before, something new for me, which I'm going to have to get used to that again, you know.  Maybe forehand and backhand are working well, but with my serve, I mean, before was not too good, okay, but I could make free points, you know.  Now I cannot make those free points.  Is difficult for me to play like this because I have to fight for every point with my serve and the opponent gets so many free points with his serve.  Maybe that's the stroke that I'm not that happy, you know, with my serve.  I want you to have it clear that he deserve to win, that he's been better than me.  It's not any problem.  Today he played great, that's it.  He has a lot of confidence.  He deserve to beat me today.  There was not any problem.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT