THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 1999
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GREG SHARKO:  Questions in English for Carlos.  
 

Q.  It was a great match today. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Which one, singles or doubles?  
 

Q.  Singles.  It was exciting, put it that way.  Can you talk a little bit about it?  Did that exhaust you?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I think it was exciting, you know, but not too good for me.  I think I played some good tennis, but he played great.  If he's able to play like this every day, he will be Top 10 for sure.  But I was almost, you know, lost, then I came back.  I had my chances; I didn't take them.  It happens in tennis, you know.  He beat me today.  He's been better than me.  It happens.  
 

Q.  Did you feel any pressure at all defending your No.  1 position?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No.  I never thought about defending that I No.  1 here.  I never felt like that.  I played almost every match grandstand court 11 o'clock in the morning.  It was great to be here in States for me, you know, because I didn't have pressure from the people and the press.  I didn't even see any picture of mine, so I didn't feel like No.  1.  I didn't have too much pressure. 
 

Q.  So you get a little taste of being No.  1. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I think it's great.  I can say I've been No.  1 for two weeks.  Who knows if I'm going to be longer there.  But at least I can say I've been No.  1.  So I think not many players can say that. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about the tiebreaker today?  You had some matchpoints.  What happened there?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I had some matchpoints.  I made some stupid mistakes, as I did the whole match.  But I did most of them when I had match point.  I'm just trying to forget about that match, you know.  It's not going to be easy because it hurts.  You know, I played doubles, I won.  I think it's been good for me to play this doubles match. 
 

Q.  Never before in this tournament had four Spaniards made it to the Round of 16.  Who would have guessed that at the end of the day, the only one left would be Clavet. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I hope he is going to be lucky.  It is not easy to get to the quarters.  I don't know how many Americans there are in the last eight.  
 

Q.  Pete and Pete. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Pete and Pete.  We were not used lately to see any American in the quarters, you know.  But Pete has been playing great this week.  The strange thing is that there is only one Spanish in the quarters.  I think we haven't been lucky.  Let's see how many on clay we have in quarters. 
 

Q.  Did it bother you to play on the grandstand?  Pete Sampras complained about it when he was scheduled there. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think he said that he won 11 matches.  What else do you have to do to play on center?  I just want to say two things:  First, which ranking I have to have to play on centre court?  And, second, never mind because we are in the States, so everything can happen here.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT