ATP Tour World Championship
November 29, 1998
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What do you think went wrong in the middle of the third and afterwards? What changed
the match?

CARLOS MOYA: Well, two sets to zero up, maybe I relax a little bit. I thought the match
was not over. It's never over when you play against Alex. But I had a really big
advantage, two sets to zero. Then he broke me, I broke him back. I think all the change in
the match was 5-All, I had two breakpoints, and I didn't take any of them. Then 6-5,
40-Love for me, 6-5 for him, 40-Love for me, I lost that serve, you know. After that, he
start to play better and better. I mean, I was not able to play as well as I played first
set, so I think that was the key of the match.

Q. Did you feel tired physically at that time in the match?

CARLOS MOYA: I was feeling tired?

Q. Yes.

CARLOS MOYA: No. Was not any problem. 

Q. In that game when you were 5-6 down in the third, you say you were 40-Love, hit a
great winner on the first point. Second one, I knew you, like a lot of people, thought it
was out. It would have given you the game.

CARLOS MOYA: I show the mark. It's still there, I think. If we have a look, maybe we
see the ball is out. But, you know, now is nothing to do.

Q. These things happen. It would have given you a tiebreak.

CARLOS MOYA: Yeah, tiebreak you never know what can happen. So for sure, I wouldn't be
down. I would have a chance to play tiebreak. At that moment, I didn't think it was going
to be a really, really important. But I think it was.

Q. How big is your disappointment at this moment?

CARLOS MOYA: I don't know. I don't know what to say. How big? Is really big because I
had it really close, many chances to beat him. I think at the beginning I played better
than him, you know, he was not making any damage to my game. After that, you know, the
chance went, he start to play better. So is really big disappointing.

Q. If there was one fundamental difference between the way your three previous matches
have gone this year, which you've won in straight sets, and this one, what would it have
been?

CARLOS MOYA: I think this match was going the same way as it was as were the last three
matches, 6-3, 6-3, I was playing really well, I was feeling comfortable. I don't know what
happened. Maybe I relax a little bit, he played better. He saw that he has to change to
try to win, because with the game he was doing, I was going to be the winner. Then he
change, you know, just played better today. He was lucky or he played better at the
important moments. You know, it happens.

Q. The sum of your year, is it good? Roland Garros champion, semis in the US Open.

CARLOS MOYA: For sure is good. But now what can I say? It was supposed to be one of the
happiest moments, you know, being in final. And it's really sad, but it happens. I'm
strong, and I'll try to come back next year here and win the title.

Q. Are you as happy for him as he was when you won at Roland Garros?

CARLOS MOYA: Is somebody losing the way I lost and is happy, he's really fake. So show
me anyone who would be happy right now in my situation, you know, I will give him $1
million.

Q. Used to be said probably till about a couple or so years ago that because of the
surface on which this tournament was played, Spanish players and others who were brought
up on clay had no chance of winning it. That's clearly not the case now. Do you think, in
fact, the Spanish players may be leading the rest of the world into evolving the game
anyway, playing a little different?

CARLOS MOYA: Well, I think we have always showed that we are great players, not only on
clay. I always say the same: people still consider me still a clay court player, when I
made the final in Australia, semifinal in US Open, final here, semifinal here last year, I
won a title on hard. I still have to hear the people saying that. It's kind of annoying,
you know.

Q. I didn't make myself clear. Particularly in the match today, in a lot of the matches
you play, you go to the net a lot. It appears to me that you are actually playing the sort
of tennis that a lot of other people have got to play if they also want to win on all
surfaces.

CARLOS MOYA: That's why I was working last year just not to be a clay court player, but
to be an all-kind-of-surface player, you know, try to go to the net, serve well. But I
still have to improve. I think I'm improving, but is still early to feel comfortable in
the net. Sometimes I do, but I still have to work. 

Q. This year this tournament was the end of the race for two players, Sampras and Rios
for No. 1. Do you feel that next year you may be in that race for the No. 1?

CARLOS MOYA: I would love to be there, you know. It's going to be tough. Everybody's
goal is to be No. 1. Many people play good tennis, you know. It's going to be tough. But
now I'm No. 5. Not many points, not such a big difference to No. 1. I hope I'm going to be
there. I hope I play well and try to win titles and try to become No. 1.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT