MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 13, 2007
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How quickly do you have to try and get this out of your mind because you've got a tournament in Melbourne next week? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, to be honest, I don't think I have to forget this week.  I've been feeling great.  I feel that I'm -- I feel good play again, which is the best thing that can happen to me.  If I'm just playing this way, it doesn't matter for me.  I have to give everything as I gave this week, and the victories will come. 
 Maybe I'll lose again against to him next week, but if I play like this, I'll be happy anyway because that means that I'll be losing to a great player, a great champion, and there's not much you can say about it. 
 I'm going to fight 100 percent and I'm going to try to beat him as much as I can.  Now I want to relax a little bit.  These five days have been really hard for me, and now I need a break, a one-day break, and then come back for Melbourne. 

 Q.  After the week you've had saving all those match points in the earlier matches, did you think after you came back from 4-Love down in the second to win the second set that perhaps destiny was on your side? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it could happen.  When you get to one set all, and the way it was, to be honest you have many more chances to win than the other guy because you're coming from behind.  Probably if he wasn't a top five player, maybe it could have affected his mind, but he didn't at all.  He kept playing at a high very level.  I haven't been able at the beginning of the set to keep the score tied. 
 I think it was the key of the match, maybe at the beginning he was breaking my serve, so it's a little bit easier to play when you break up. 
 But again, he's been playing great tennis and I'm proud of the way I've been playing today, I've been playing this week, the wins I had.  As long as I'm playing this way, I have nothing to say. 

 Q.  How did you feeling physically? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  To be honest, I thought I was going to feel much worse than I felt.  Obviously when we have long rallies, we had a few of them, I was feeling like I had no more energy.  But I was recovering very well.  When I was at the top I was playing Blake, I got long rallies again and I was getting tired, same as today. 
 So I don't think the long matches that I had this week affected me at all.  Physically I've been perfect, much better than I expected.  You know, hopefully these two, three days I'm going to recover a little bit and be 100 percent for next Monday or Tuesday. 

 Q.  What do you think you'll have to do different next week to beat him? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, for sure I'll have to serve better than I did today.  I think the serve helped me a lot this week but not today.  Against James you have to serve 100 percent, otherwise he puts so much pressure on you.  He starts running the first shot he makes.  I don't like to play that way.  I like to dominate the point, dictate with my forehand.  I'm playing the second serve, he's very aggressive from the return.  I have to have high percentage of first serves and play a great match and be lucky that he won't be at his best. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT