ATP Tour World Championship
November 28, 1998
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. When did you feel that you actually won the match? Do you feel maybe the first set,
because Tim wasn't consistent with his serve, that you had a chance? When do you think it
turned for you?

CARLOS MOYA: Well, I think I didn't realize yet, because I had already a tough match.
Well, I start playing really well the first set. Maybe at the beginning of the second set,
I relax a little bit. He had the chance to break me. Then the third set he broke me at the
beginning again. I thought if I don't make any break, the match is over. So I took more
risk. I hit harder the ball. Today it work out. I think I played pretty well, maybe one of
the best matches I play on indoor surface. I don't know, I think he has to play pretty
well. We both deserve to win, but there can be only one winner. Today it's been me. You
know, I think I played better in the important moments than him. 

Q. It surprises particularly the British reporters to see how the Spanish players have
learned to cope with the faster surfaces, indoor surfaces, come to the net more. You are
not afraid to come to the net?

CARLOS MOYA: No. Sometimes you have to come, you know. Just play from baseline, they
already used to play with you. They know this. It's good tactic to surprise them, you
know. They are not used to take risk, to hit every ball for winner. When they see you at
the net, they also get really nervous. You also put some pressure on them. They not used
to that. I think this week, today I didn't volley really well, but last days, I did pretty
good volleys. I'm still working on that. I think I can improve much, much more. I'm going
to work on that for the future.

Q. How nervous with you in today's match? How nervous do you think Tim was?

CARLOS MOYA: There's always pressure being in semifinal of World Championship. You
know, maybe I think I handle it a bit better the pressure. He has never played the final
in a major tournament, like Super 9 or Grand Slam. I think that was also an important
factor for me. I played two final in Grand Slam, I won one Super 9. So maybe this little
experience help me a little bit. I cannot say I have a lot of experience as Pete Sampras
has, you know, but I have a little bit more than Tim. Maybe in important moments, I played
better. But I don't think it was nervous. I think the people watch a really pretty match.
I think they enjoyed in the match.

Q. Last year here in the round-robin, you played a tremendous match to beat Sampras. Do
you think your performance today was on a par or better than that?

CARLOS MOYA: I think today I played amazing, you know. I had to take risk any moment,
you know. He was putting so much pressure - I wouldn't say he played a bad match - he was
putting a lot of pressure, not making mistakes in the volley. So I had to hit as hard as I
can to pass him, you know. But also I played a great match last year. You know, I cannot
say which one I played better, but that one was first match of round-robin, this one is
semifinal, so I think is more important this one.

Q. How are your hopes for tomorrow?

CARLOS MOYA: Well, depends who is winning, you know. Maybe I have better chances if
Corretja wins. But I would love to beat the No. 1 in a final. You know, I think I'm strong
enough right now to do it. For sure, it won't be easy to beat any of them, but I'm going
to do my best. I'm working really well and playing really well, really confident. Just
play well and enjoy out there.

Q. Of the matches you've played this year, where would you rank this match?

CARLOS MOYA: Top three maybe.

Q. Top three?

CARLOS MOYA: Yes.

Q. Have you achieved more this year than you thought you might? Obviously you got to
the Australian Open the year before. Has this been a better year than you thought it was
going to be?

CARLOS MOYA: I never expected to win Grand Slam, Super 9, and be final in Master in the
same year - I don't know - semifinal of a Grand Slam, you know, US Open. It's unbelievable
what happened this year for me. It's been great. Next goal will be to be No. 1. The
problem is my concentration, you know. If I could be able to be as concentrate as I've
been these days, I think I could be No. 1. You know, I have to be really focused every
single match. I'm not ready yet. But I hope in the future I'm going to improve that.

Q. You didn't win an indoor match before coming to Hannover, then winning three matches
here, does this mean that you made a main goal of this tournament since a long time?

CARLOS MOYA: Yeah, maybe it was a bit relaxed when I qualified for Hannover. It was
like two months ago. My goal was to play well here. I proved to everyone in the important
moments I'm there, you know. Nobody gave me anything. I had to fight until the death every
single match I won here. You know, I am really proud of that, that I am in final. I beat
three of the Top 8 players, indoor specialist all of them. Maybe I don't know why I didn't
win any match. Important thing is that I won three here, which was the biggest tournament.

Q. Does Orantes winning in 1976 mean anything to you or never thought about it?

CARLOS MOYA: Yeah, I thought I would be the second Spanish who wins The Masters. It
would be great. I have to go stage by stage. Only one match left. Now I just want to enjoy
this victory. Tomorrow I think about my next match. I say I want to win this tournament
when I came here. Nobody believed me. Now is just one step away from me. Maybe they took
it as a joke. But I hope you realize when I talk, I'm not joking at all. I'll try to beat
either Sampras or Corretja tomorrow.

Q. How are you going to spend your holidays? 

CARLOS MOYA: What holidays? What is that (laughter)? This year I have no holidays.

Q. Not at all?

CARLOS MOYA: I have the Spanish Masters next week.

Q. A few days?

CARLOS MOYA: No.

Q. Christmas?

CARLOS MOYA: Yeah, but I'll be practicing. I don't think any single player is going to
make holidays in Christmas, because they have Australia. I'll be in Mallorca, but I'll be
practicing. I want to prepare well the beginning of next season. I have no points to
defend. I think I have chances to be up there, I don't know what number, but the players
which are ahead of me, they have many points to defend. I have no points to defend at all.
I think it's a good chance to try, try hard, and try to become No. 1. But that's why I'm
not making holidays. I'm going to do my best.

Q. You've already played a major final this year against a Spaniard. Let's say it is
against Corretja tomorrow. What are your thoughts about having to come up against a
compatriot, a friend, yet again?

CARLOS MOYA: Well, I will have no friends, for sure. It would be great if he wins
today. But tomorrow I don't care if he's Sampras, Corretja, or my father who is there
(laughter). I'm going to fight until death, you know. In final of a World Championship,
you don't care who's in front of you. Even God can come to play and you'll try to beat
Him.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT