ATP Tour World Championship
November 27, 1998
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Last year it was a very close match. What made a difference? 
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Maybe today I was a bit lucky in important moments. But some part of the
game, I remembered last year's match. It was not easy for me to escape of those thoughts,
you know. But I think today I have been stronger than last year. He was coming back every
time from a break down. But to have been stronger, mentally stronger, finally I could win
that match. 
 
Q. Did you change something in your strategy?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Yeah. I was not down at all, even when he was coming back every time. I
fought until the death, you know. I had to be like a wall, you know, putting back every
ball, because I knew he like to hit for winner. You know, I was there every time. Finally,
I could win that match, which I'm very happy.  
 
Q. You were also in the semis last year. Do you think it's a better performance this
year than last year?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Yeah, this year was such a strong group, you know, two finalists were in
my group. Kucera, which he's such a talented player. I had to win every match. I had to
fight for every ball. You know, nobody gave me anything. I think if I'm in semifinals,
it's because I deserve to be there. Now I have to think my next match, which is going to
be against Henman, I think. I have to be focused, which I'm very proud, I'm very happy to
be in the semifinal. 
 
Q. There was more unforced errors, both of you.
 
 CARLOS MOYA: It was a really difficult match for both. I felt a bit the pressure when I
was serving for the first set, and also in the second set. It's normal to make unforced
errors than you used to make because we have to take many risks, to be more aggressive
than with you used to be. It's enough not to make any mistake. But maybe in the important
moments, I didn't make any, and he made a little bit more. 
 
Q. What do you think of Sampras' performance to be six years in a row No. 1? Does he
inspire you?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Well, I think it's amazing, no, to be up there six years in a row. The way
he's been playing here, he's just unbeatable. I hope if I'm in final, I hope he's not
going -- I hope I'm not going to meet him or he's going to go down a little bit, otherwise
is difficult to play him. I have to care about my next opponent, which is Henman. What I
can say is that he's proved he's the best player ever, Sampras, and he's playing amazing. 
 
Q. Is it something for you to be No. 1 once? Is it a goal, a main goal for you?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Well, as long as he is going to play this level, I think there is no
chance. You know, my hope is that he's getting older and he's not going to be there too
long. Maybe one day I can become No. 1 if I can hold this level and play as I played
today, not at this level, but the way I got to the match. I was very focused. If I can
keep that level, to be mentally like I've been today, I think I have chance to beat. 
 
Q. Do you think that somebody can beat that record once?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Beat what? 
 
Q. The record to be six years in a row No. 1.
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Not right now. Maybe next generation. I don't see anyone who can be six
years in a row right now No. 1. 
 
Q. How do you see your next match, against Henman? 
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Is going to be difficult one. I came back from difficult moments,
difficult situations, so I'm going to give my best, a hundred percent, be really focused.
Is a big one tomorrow. In the big moments, I've been there, so I hope I'm going to be
there. 
 
Q. What do you think of Henman as a player?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Everybody know him. He's playing really aggressive. He doesn't give you
any rhythm. He tries to get to the net very often. I think this is what he's going to try
tomorrow. I'm going to do my best, I'm going to try to serve well, which is going to be
important, and to improve my return, try to play my game, you know. If I play my game, I
think I have chances, but I have to serve well, too. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT