ATP Tour World Championship
November 24, 1998
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You were extremely offensive today, 34 points on net from 41. Is another Spanish
national record?

CARLOS MOYA: Well, is the way you have to play here, otherwise you are lost, you know.
I play too defensive first set. I lost it. I decided to play more offensive at the net.
Today it work out, you know. I've been practicing so much this year to improve my net
game. Today has been paid off. So I'm very happy to be the winner of this match. I hope
it's going to give me a lot of confidence. It's very important to start the tournament
with a victory.

Q. It was your first victory today indoors. Any explanation about your five defeats
before?

CARLOS MOYA: Perhaps I played better in these important moments where I'm very
concentrate. I have always said that my weak point is that I cannot keep the level the
whole year. I came here very fresh. I didn't play many matches lately. I was really
focused to play well this tournament. Today maybe I didn't play perfect, but I won, which
is the most important thing today. What I said before, I think when is a big tournament, I
play better.

Q. I think your last tournament was Bercy. What did you do between Bercy and now? Did
you have some holidays?

CARLOS MOYA: I've been practicing on indoor court, you know, really hard, because I
knew this is a very important tournament, the last of the year, and is important to play
well here. So I was practicing every day, like two hours tennis, one hour fitness. I
played every day soccer last week, so I think I came here really fit. I was always playing
with two guys in Barcelona, two junior players, so I think I've done a really good job
practicing last week. I work really hard. I don't know, that's why I think I win today.

Q. Are you satisfied with the net game that you performed today or you can play even
better, volley and serve?

CARLOS MOYA: I think for me is never enough, you know. I am very happy with my volleys
today, but I think I can get even better. So, I'm going to keep working. I think today I
won because of those volleys. Otherwise from baseline, I was lost. So I'm happy, but I
just want more and more. I'm not going to be happy if I don't win the tournament. So I
hope I'm looking forward to play good tennis the next days and try to win some more
matches.

Q. How would you characterize Karol Kucera and his game today?

CARLOS MOYA: He's a very talented player. When he plays well, I think he's one of the
best players in the world. He makes amazing strokes, you know. But sometimes when he has
an easy ball, he misses. I think when he's a really good player, I've been lucky in
important moments today. We both deserved to win that match, but there's only one winner,
and it's been me. Maybe next time it's going to be Karol. He plays well from the baseline.
He has not such a big serve. He plays well everywhere. So he's a very dangerous player.

Q. Your second year in Hannover. You were here last year. In which way did it help you
today?

CARLOS MOYA: I think it helps, but last year was my first time, was like ten times for
Pete here or nine or whatever. I won that match. So is important. Is not the most
important thing maybe. In the 5-All today, maybe he felt a little bit of pressure, and 6-5
in the second set, last two points were mistakes from him. But I think it's very important
my experience from last year. I don't have much experience, but at least a little bit more
than him. So I think it's been really important today.

Q. You mean, you feel less pressure this year than last year?

CARLOS MOYA: You always have pressure, you know, when you play here. Even if the people
say you are not the favorite, just being here where only the best eight players being
here, you feel a bit of pressure. So many people are watching you, and you want to do it
well. So you feel the pressure. I felt the pressure last year. I felt the pressure French
Open, US Open. So I think I have, for my age, a lot of experience. I can have much more,
but for my age it's not bad.

Q. Kucera is a player who is good on every surface. Would you say the same for you as
well? Is there a difference from clay to indoors; for example, are you good on every
surface?

CARLOS MOYA: Me?

Q. Yes.

CARLOS MOYA: Well, I'm trying to. I know right now my favorite surface right now is
clay court. I proved that I can play really well on hard court. I reached the final in
Australia, semifinal US Open, I won a tournament in Long Island, four finals I played on
hard court outdoor. Now what I have to improve is the indoor, you know, also on grass.
It's going to be a bit difficult to play well on grass for my kind of game. I think I
improve really much. I still young, I have so much to improve. So I'm looking forward to
play well in the future in Wimbledon and Paris Bercy, and Stuttgart, where I didn't do
that well lately. My next goal will be to become a good player indoor and grass court. I
know I can do it.

Q. Is your big lesson this year having learned to fight - I'm thinking particularly of
the couple matches at the US Open, and other five-setters where you really had to come
back - and today a bit as well?

CARLOS MOYA: I'm used to coming back when I'm really down. I think I didn't learn this
year. I've been always a fighter, you know. Maybe doesn't look like, but I'm fighting
almost every match. To reach the final in Australia, I had to come back two sets to one
against Becker, two sets to one against Bjorkman, so I think I've been always a fighter.
Is very important. What I learned from last year is that I can win matches even playing
bad, you know, not playing that well. Maybe last year is when I was playing bad, I was
always losing. Is what I learned from last year, that even playing bad, you can win a
match. You know, that's why I'm fighting every match.

Q. How big are your chances tomorrow against Sampras realistically?

CARLOS MOYA: Well, we are two players, so it is going to be 50 (laughter). I play him
two times. I beat him once. He beat me once. I will have more chances if it was on clay
court, but is indoor, hard court, so I'm going to do my best. I cannot tell you how many
chances I have, but he should be careful.

Q. Do you think you have to improve a little bit standard of your game from the
baseline? Sampras is also really tough from the baseline.

CARLOS MOYA: Yeah, he's been probably the best player ever, even if Roland Garros is
missing for him. But he won like 10 or 11 Grand Slam, five times here. What can I say, you
know? He cannot be best from baseline. I'm going to try to keep him there. For sure he's
going to try to come to the net. But here is different than Paris, you know. Here the
surface is a bit slower; I have more time to think. I can say what I can do is just do my
best, play my best, and try to beat him.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT