ATP Tour World Championship
November 23, 1998
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What are your chances now? How do you see your opponents?

CARLOS MOYA: Well, it's going to be a tough group. When you come here where are the
best eight players in the world, you can't expect to have an easy group, not expect to win
an easy match. Chances are 25 percent to qualify. We are four players, so it's 25 percent.
I'm going to do my best, be a hundred percent and play good tennis.

Q. How do you feel physically now?

CARLOS MOYA: Pretty well. Last two days and a half, I've been practicing indoor on the
surface, faster surface than these ones. I try to practice on my weak points, which are
the serve and the net game, you know, be more aggressive.

Q. What is your opinion about the surface compared with last year?

CARLOS MOYA: Is pretty similar. Maybe last this year is a little bit faster. You can
play good tennis from baseline. The ball, I think you can play really well here.

Q. (Inaudible)? 

CARLOS MOYA: Yeah, sure. It was my first time. Let's say I was the victim in that
group. It gave me confidence that if I did it that time, I can do it again. I have a bit
more experience than I think last year, so it will help, I think.

Q. (Inaudible)?

CARLOS MOYA: It wasn't so good for me this indoor season. Making the semifinal last
year gave me some confidence for this year.

Q. (Inaudible)?

CARLOS MOYA: Where you have the World Championship where the eight players are here,
you cannot expect to have an easy match. It's like that, you have to accept it. You have
to do your best.

Q. Do you like some places in Hannover?

CARLOS MOYA: I was here, but for not too long. I like to be relaxed at the tournament.
That means to go out to a restaurant, not to be all day in the room. So I try to have fun,
relax my mind for the match.

Q. Do you have a favorite place?

CARLOS MOYA: I don't remember the names where I was last year, so I cannot tell you
exactly. I should talk to someone to remember me what the name was where we were last
year.

Q. Are you coming to the Champion's Night? 

CARLOS MOYA: Is a party?

Q. Yes.

CARLOS MOYA: Well, if I'm not in the tournament, so should I be there. If I still in, I
don't know what I going to do.

Q. It's a players' night.

CARLOS MOYA: I don't know if I'll be there or not. I cannot tell you now.

Q. Do you have any charity cause?

CARLOS MOYA: I'm doing something.

Q. Can you tell what?

CARLOS MOYA: I'm for the AIDS.

Q. In Spain?

CARLOS MOYA: Yes.

Q. Every year you have charity problem?

CARLOS MOYA: I don't have any problem. I decide what I want to go. I give my name to
help the people, you know.

Q. (Inaudible)?

CARLOS MOYA: It's going to be difficult, World Championship. I'm going to try my best,
try to qualify for the final. You cannot expect an easy group here. You have to accept it
like this, just play your best.

Q. (Inaudible)?

CARLOS MOYA: He's playing well. He made good end of season, you know. He always
qualifies the last week. I don't know how he makes it every time. He's always here. Once
he's here, he's very dangerous, so we have to be careful with him.

Q. Captain from your national team says players from your team are universal players.

CARLOS MOYA: Well, I don't want to be just a clay court player. That's why I try to
work on my game on every surface. I made final in Australia, semifinal at US Open,
semifinal here last year. So I think I did well in other surfaces, not only on clay.

Q. Many new players after you and your colleagues?

CARLOS MOYA: Young players?

Q. Yes.

CARLOS MOYA: I don't even know some of them. We have very good junior players, and,
after, Spanish children will be up there.

Q. And our new tennis star, Marat Safin?

CARLOS MOYA: He's a good player. It's a pity he's from Russia. If he played for Spain,
we'd have a very good Davis Cup team. I think he's a very talented player and can become
Top 10 easy.

Q. I had to ask everybody on Davis Cup final, who is going to win between Italy and
Sweden and why?

CARLOS MOYA: I think Italy has good chances, they play home, clay. But Sweden, too, has
a strong team. Doesn't matter what surface they play on. Strong mentality for this
tournament, which is Davis Cup.

Q. 3-2, 4-1?

CARLOS MOYA: I don't know.

Q. Kulti, Bjorkman in doubles. I don't know yet in singles. Gustafsson for sure, and
Bjorkman or Johansson, who is better?

CARLOS MOYA: On clay, I think Norman.

Q. This time before you play your match - you arrived in Hannover a couple days ago -
before you play your match, is that the most stressful time?

CARLOS MOYA: No, I enjoy so much when I don't play. Either I go to dinner, go to have a
drink, I play video games.

Q. The waiting to play doesn't bother you?

CARLOS MOYA: No, no doesn't stress me out at all.

Q. I saw you at World Team Cup. You were playing well there. You went on to Paris and
played even better. How do you feel the preparation for this event?

CARLOS MOYA: I didn't play many tournaments, so I was two weeks and a half practicing
indoor, you know, getting ready for this tournament which is very important (inaudible).

Q. How is the court this year? 

CARLOS MOYA: It's a bit faster this year. But the bounce ball high. I like it. You
know, I can play my game from baseline. It's not too fast, so I have time to think and be
ready for the game.

Q. What did you learn from last year's experience?

CARLOS MOYA: That I'm able to play well anywhere. In the final in Australia, won the
French Open, semis in US Open, semis here, so four different surface. That means I'm good
player on any kind of surface, and I can improve so much any of them. I'm still young;
I'll have time to do it.

Q. US Open was a highlight.

CARLOS MOYA: Yeah, because I'm prepared for the big tournaments. It just come at the
right moment, you know. I play my best when I have to play in the right moment. I like to
play well in the French Open, US Open, and I hope I can do it well here.

Q. Anything surprise you about this year?

CARLOS MOYA: After I played the first final in Grand Slam, I realize how difficult it
was to get there. I didn't know if I was going to be able to do it again. I was still
young, 20 years old. I thought if I could do it once, I could do it again. It happened in
the French Open, I played really well. Gave me a lot of experience in that final in
Australia; I know that's why I won the French. US Open, same. I didn't expect to play the
semifinal. I was playing my worst tennis ever, I think, right before the US Open. But in
the right moment, I won that match against Chang, and all the power came again, you know,
all the confidence I lost came back suddenly, and I did it well in the right moments.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT