US OPEN
September 12, 1998
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I'm from the Weather Channel. Did any of the heat have an effect on your game today? 
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Well, I think, first of all, he played a great match, and his serve was
unbelievable. You know, I had to change my game because the way I was playing, he was --
he was leading pretty easy. So I start to get to the net more often, serve and volley. I
not used to that, but I think I did it pretty well. You know, I've been close to force the
fifth set, but I couldn't. But I think his serve was too good today. 
 
Q. Was the Mark Philippoussis you were expecting the guy who played as well as he did
in the first two sets or the one who double-faulted twice in a row to get you back into
the third set and missed those early match points?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: I think is normal to double-fault twice. The way he's serving, the lowest
serve was like 100 miles, even the second serve. So I think is normal that he can make a
few double-faults. I don't think he did many. I don't know, five, six, seven. But the way
he's serving, I mean, nothing to make seven double-faults. And he has such a good
percentage of first serve. You know, first two sets he played really well. If he was in
semifinals, I knew he was playing well, you know. When he's playing that way, is really
tough to beat him. But at the third set, I found a little bit the way to damage his game,
you know, go more often to the net with my serve. The fourth set, he played well again. I
didn't have any chance. But I think he played a great match. I expect him to play that
well. 
 
Q. The way he was playing, can he beat either Pete Sampras or Patrick Rafter, in your
opinion?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Yeah. I mean, he beat Sampras twice, I think. And he can beat Rafter, as
well. But I think is going to be tough, you know, because Sampras have a better serve than
mine, and Rafter have a better volley than mine. I don't think they're going to be long
rallies. When you put pressure on him, he's not playing that well, but anyway, he was
still too good for me today. I'm not saying that I play well or bad, I mean. I didn't feel
comfortable the whole match. But I think he has a chance to beat any of them, but it's
going to be difficult. 
 
Q. Was that the most powerful opponent you've played, just the power of him?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Yeah, I think so. If he could have a little bit more of control, he would
be unbeatable. But, you know, he has to have a weakness. 
 
Q. In the same line of questioning, is it also the toughest serve you've ever had to
face?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Yeah, I think so. Yeah, because he's serving so fast. I don't know what
was his percentage, but in the middle of third set, it was like 70 percent of first serves
in. Serving that way, you know, I was not able to return. You know, you can return one or
two. But from ten serves, he was putting seven. So I had no chance. 
 
Q. Would you say his game is too one dimensional to be a champion of a tournament like
this?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Who? 
 
Q. Philippoussis. Can you describe what he needs to do?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Well, I not his coach. I'm not the right person to say what he has to do.
But, I mean, serving that way, you know, everything is done. But, I mean, he can improve
so many things. But the kind of game he has, you know, he has to be concentrate with his
serve, because he's going to make a break, for sure. Then when he's leading the match, he
has so much confidence. You know, you have to break him first to not let him to be that --
I mean, to make more mistakes. 
 
Q. Mark is a very tall man, 6'4. What's it like standing there when the ball is coming
down at 110, 120 miles an hour at you, or past you, as was happening today?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Well, you just have to guess where the ball is going to go, and pray, you
know, because even if you know is going the ball, I mean, is not easy to put it back. But,
you know, just pisses you off, you know, because you're feeling that you're doing nothing,
"I cannot do anything with his serve." Then my serve, I didn't serve well, you
know. But I was fighting for every game. And then he was serving the three serves and that
was it. 
 
Q. Can you comment on the three foot-fault calls.
 
 CARLOS MOYA: I better not comment anything. I mean, I was fighting like crazy, you
know. And first point, the woman, I'm going to try to say nice way, woman calls
double-fault when the ball was in the middle of the line. Because I don't used to complain
when I think I'm not right, you know. After that ball, three-foot faults the same game
when they didn't call one the whole match. I don't know what to think anymore. But it
pisses me off, you know, that I'm fighting the whole year, we are all the pro players, you
know, and then for one ball, I mean, I not going to say that I could have win that match,
you know, because for one ball you cannot say that. But at least it was Love-15, instead
of 15-Love, which is very important. For that ball, then came the three-foot faults. You
know, what I mean is that not only this match, last matches I also complained, also the
first match. The referee, they should do something else, you know, because the way they
are doing up there, you know, they can leave the court because they don't overrule not
even one ball. We can play without him, just with the linemen, you know. They do what they
say, and that's it. They don't overrule, not even one ball. So is the easiest job that I
ever saw. So, I mean, they could leave from there. I will request, I mean, to prepare the
lineman, because was one serve also, I'm sorry to say that, but the woman was a little bit
old. You know, the ball was like 130 miles. For me was out. How can she see that ball? I
mean, is no way. The way he hits, you have to be so concentrate. My God, that woman cannot
see that ball. I saw it clearly out. But, you know, maybe is my mistake also, because that
speed you cannot see anything. But I will request that, you know, to practice more. I
don't know. I know is a tough job, you know, but to be a little bit better. I'm not the
only one who complain about that. There are more players. 
 
Q. In the first round, Mark Woodforde lost to Goran Ivanisevic, who has a similar game
to Mark Philippoussis, one would say pretty one dimensional. He said for the audience, it
makes it boring. A lot of people think that's what's wrong with men's tennis, that one
dimensional serve, many aces in the match. Do you agree with Mark Woodforde's assessment,
that's the problem with men's tennis right now.
 
 CARLOS MOYA: I don't know if I agree or not. I cannot say anything because these
players would be against me, you know. And I don't want to be against anybody. Is obvious
that the tennis is becoming too fast. Then you want to get the ticket in Wimbledon, and
there's no chance. People sleeping on the street to get a ticket, you know. Then you go to
the court, and you don't see any point, any rally. I don't know. That's what -- it's what
they like, you know. I don't understand. But I have a lot of respect for these players,
because I'm tall enough to serve like them, and I'm not able to do it. So is my mistake,
as well. I could have the chance to do it, you know. I use my forehand to win points. I
use their serve, you know. I mean is normal. And they are not doing anything wrong. I
mean, they have to serve. Are the rules like this. You have one serve or two serves. They
have two. I cannot say anything against that. But I not -- I'm not coming from the crowd,
you know. I don't know what they see. I don't know what they like. I know what I like, but
I don't have their opinion. 
 
Q. Did any of the matches previous to this, the five-setters, the lengths of your
matches, have any effect on you at all today?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: No, not at all. I mean, it affect me, but in the good way, you know. I
mean, I was feeling much -- more power, much more concentrate, confidence, you know,
self-confident. Was for good, you know, to play those five-set matches. I was totally
fresh today. Because the last two matches I had were three sets, so I cannot say it affect
me at all.  
 
Q. In those first two sets, did you feel that you were playing as well as you could,
given that he was just blasting away?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Me, if I was -- 
 
Q. In those first two sets, do you feel you were playing well, it's just you weren't
getting any chances?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: No, but he didn't give me any rhythm. He was hitting so hard. I didn't
find the way to damage his game, you know. But after the second set, I changed my game. I
went to the net, serve and volley, you know. Tried to do something else, because that way
he was going to sweep me. I think I did something. You know, I cannot say that I played a
good match the first two sets. But I was doing all my best. 
 
Q. Were you surprised at how good he was at the net with some of those volleys? You hit
some good returns back, he was getting them back.
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Didn't surprise me at all because I know him, I know he's a very good
player. He's moving well for how tall he is. He's very big, you know, he covers the court
very well. Is not easy to make a passing. But didn't surprise me at all, his volley. 
 
Q. Can you compare the surface in Australia with the surface here? You could build an
argument that this year maybe you're the best player in the world, considering your Grand
Slam results, even with the loss today. Would you react to that?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: First question, the difference is in Australia, the ball bounce higher.
It's a little bit soft. This the only difference, I think. Is hard court, is the same hard
court. That's the only difference. Much hotter than here, and here, the ball doesn't
bounce that high, you know. You have to bend your knees a little bit more. This good
surface. I think I play better here, because it's a bit faster. The centre court is really
quick. I felt it the first days. Now I got used to. But is the main difference. What was
the second question? 
 
Q. You could build an argument that you are the best player in the world, considering
your Grand Slam results, Australia, French Open, semifinals here. How do you feel about
that?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Oh, I feel very proud to be able to play well everywhere besides
Wimbledon. And I have some good results. I get a final in Australia, winner in French,
semifinal here. You know, I think Sampras, if he wins this tournament, he's going to
deserve to be No. 1, because he won two. But, you know, I'm going to tell you that I feel
very proud of myself of these tournaments I've played. You know, don't ask me if I feel
like I'm No. 1 or I'm the best player in the world just for that reason. I think the No. 1
is the best player in the world, and is the one who deserves it, you know. Right now, I
think is Sampras, so he deserves it even he loses or whatever he does. No. 1 is No. 1, and
nobody's going to change that. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT