GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 1998
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  (Inaudible) 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  ...  After that, I got a little bit desperate and the second set at the beginning was for me again, he broke me so I lost which was not very usual.  After that I was a little bit down and I knew I was not going to win that match. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible).
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, he served pretty well and I was not very confident.  I was not taking risk and I just was putting the ball in and I was playing back and forth.  He had a big serve today, but, you know, I played -- somebody play with a big serve but today I could not do anything. 
 

Q.  Any effect, this being your first hard court match?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  It is always tough to start but I hope to win a few matches to get confidence for the U.S. Open and hopefully, I'm going to win a few matches next week to get there with -- in good shape. 
 

Q.  Last year you came into Indianapolis (inaudible) final, so obviously you so you can win. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Last year I came and I play final then I won Long Island but I hope this year's going to be the same.  So I lost that round which was not good but I hope in Indianapolis I hope I am going to be better, at least.  I want to win matches, but what I want is to play good tennis, go on the court and enjoy and that way I can win better. 
 

Q.  What are the keys for you in adjusting and getting that rhythm?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I'm going to have to work now, my fitness and play more aggressive.  I wasn't playing so aggressive so play back and forth and serve better, return better, do everything better.  I don't know how I'm going to start to do it.  Tomorrow I'm going to start to work hard and I'm going to try to do my best. 
 

Q.  Have you played him before?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No, never. 
 

Q.  Did anything surprise you?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Only because I knew how -- how he played.  And he qualified, he won first match, so he was more used to the court than I was, but this is not an excuse, you know.  He played better than me.  I didn't have a good day and I just congratulate him. 
 

Q.  When did you start preparing?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Two days ago. 
 

Q.  You started playing, but what did you do  before?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I was in Spain -- a good time. (laughter).  What I did last year, it work out I don't know why.  I want to start to prepare now. 
 

Q.  Do you feel having played a lot of -- the last time you played (inaudible), was that a big factor in not being aggressive enough, one of the main things you have to get your mind to --
 
CARLOS MOYA:  You have to change your mind and also the movements are different.  The Open and most of them are different and they have a big serve and they play very aggressive.  So I don't know, maybe I have to get used to the hard and get ready for U.S. Open which is in one month. 
 

Q.  You say you started two days ago.  Who helped you get ready to play here and what were you talking about, playing in this particular tournament?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I was just practicing with the guys. 
 

Q.  No one in particular?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Just hitting the ball. 
 

Q.  Just hitting the ball?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  Any big change for you since Paris and the --
 
CARLOS MOYA:  My racket changed.  
 

Q.  But no more pressure from fans or expectations or just viewed differently?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I don't feel that so much. You've been to the court, I'm hugging people so -- not so much, so not so much pressure.  But I kind of say it was a bigger change when I made the final in Australia because there was a big surprise for everybody.  But French Open, month before I won Monte Carlo and I was already seeded there No. 12, so it was surprise for me but not as big in Australia.  My life changed there much more than after French Open. 
 

Q.  Maybe the Open in other countries, sometimes a player comes out and wins a Slam (inaudible) success in the French Open?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, for them it's normal in Spain.  It's good for me because they don't do anything special when I came back.  They feel it's normal, I don't know why.  But I don't think it's so normal. 
 

Q.  Last year was such a breakthrough year for you, is everything going the way you thought you'd be again this year at this point?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  What, again? 
 

Q.  You had such a great year with Australia and all through the year making so many finals.  Has this year been everything you expected it to be?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  This year?  
 

Q.  I mean, coming off last year.
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I played well last year and maybe expected a little better at the beginning of the year but I play much better than last year.  And I didn't expect to win a Grand Slam but just wanted to play well and enjoy, win a few matches. 
 

Q.  You are one of the few top guys who has never been here before this year.  What were your impressions about the tournament site and all that?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think the tournament is good when you are winning matches so I don't have this feeling this year.  But it's quite a good tournament and -- I feel very well here.  They treat you well and they give you car, so it's good. 
 

Q.  Think you'll come back here?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Super 9 event, so be good player, you have to play all of these tournaments, you know, try to do your best. 
 

Q.  Driving the car around, have you been any place interesting?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No.  I've been just at the hotel, came back here.  I hope I'm going to go somewhere today.  I have time.  (laughter). 
 

Q.  There's an amusement park across the street.
 
CARLOS MOYA:  We'll go. 
 

Q.  Are you driving or are you having someone  drive for you?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No, I drive.  I have the driver's license. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT