REPUBLIC NATIONAL MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 26, 1998
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Where does this rank for you in your career as an achievement?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think it's the most important victory I ever had, the most important title.  I just have four, you know.  Very good tournament for me, very important.  I'm pretty happy the way I played, to be a winner here this week.


Q.  Carlos, since the beginning of the clay court season you play well, semifinal in Estoril, Barcelona.  Were you expecting to do well here and win the tournament?

CARLOS MOYA:  Maybe not to win the tournament, but I was expecting to play well, because I was doing well already.  I came here, I knew I was going to play Muster first round; it was going to be a tough match for me.  But I came with a lot of confidence.  After I beat him, I realized I was playing really well and it helped me a  lot that victory, 6-Love, 6-3, to realize that I was able to do well here.


Q.  Did you expect such an easy match today?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I don't think it's been that easy, you know.  I played well the whole match.  But second set I played really well.  Since 3-All in the first, then I won nine games in a row.  It gave me a lot of confidence.  I was every time a break ahead, but he was break me back like three times.  Finally when I had the chance to win, I took it.  I think I played really well the whole match.  Maybe he was tired from yesterday.  He told me he has his elbow, I think, like sore, tired from the match, from all the matches this week.  But I think it's part of the game, you know.  I also won a tough match yesterday.  The fitness condition I think is very important to win a Super 9.


Q.  Yesterday you say you change your physical coach comparing to last year.  What did you change practically in your way of practicing physically?  You do more?  You do different things?

CARLOS MOYA:  I did a lot pre-season, in December. I think that was the key, you know.  Maybe at the beginning, I didn't play that well, but I knew my fitness condition was good already.  I just kept working.  Now I'm not working that much, because I did it.  But I'm just trying to keep my level, you know.  I think one of the keys of my good result this year and last year is that I realize that fitness condition is really important to be on the top.  I think that's why I'm here right now winning this tournament, playing a few finals.  I think it's one of the keys, my fitness condition.


Q.  Do you think the match that you played against Brazil in Davis Cup a few weeks ago gave you the confidence you have now?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, it gave me a lot of confidence.  When I finished that match, I said that that match helped me a lot.  I didn't know what was going to happen in the future.  I think I was right when I said that.  It changed my mind a little, you know.  I showed, proved myself, I can be a winner, you know.  Maybe if I would have lost that match, I wouldn't be here right now.  But you never know.  It's true that it helped me a lot.


Q.  Carlos, last year here Rios won his first title in Super 9.  Now it's your turn.  Does it mean anything for you? 

CARLOS MOYA:  It means a lot to win here.  It's very important for me.  I said before, I'm so happy to win, you know.  When you win any Super 9, and the first one I think everybody feel happy, you know.  I wish I can become No. 1 as he did, you know.  But it's more difficult.  You have to win a few more like this, even a Grand Slam, to get there.  But I'm going to try.  Last year he was -- I don't know what was his ranking.  It was not Top 10 I think when he came here.  So he wouldn't say that he was going to become No. 1 after one year.  I don't know.  You never know.  I'm going to do my best.


Q.  Do you think that winning here means that you're ready to win Roland Garros, too?  You think the level to win here and there is the same?

CARLOS MOYA:  I think I'm in the right way to try that at least.  Here, I cannot say I had an easy go.  I won two French Open champions, plus Krajicek, who I think is a good player here, and Corretja, and today Pioline.  I think all the best clay court players were here, besides Rios, maybe he was the only one who was not here.  But I just want to keep working, to be in good  shape in Roland Garros.  I think if I get there, the way I'm playing here, I have a good chance to do it well there.  I cannot say I win or lose semifinal, whatever.  I just want to play as I played here.


Q.  We hear one of the problems of the best clay court players is they win a lot of matches before the French. They arrive quite tired at the French.  Are you afraid of that?  Do you expect to change your program before the French, play less tournaments?

CARLOS MOYA:  No, no.  In my case, I'm a little bit slow starter, you know.  I need matches to get the rhythm.  I need to win matches, you know, to get confident.  For sure, I'm not going to give up in any match I'm going to play now.  I'm just going to try to win as many matches as I can.  I don't think I'm going to be tired.  I'm used to play almost every week, so nothing is going to change after this victory.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT