REPUBLIC NATIONAL MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 25, 1998
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Carlos, 2-4 in that final set, it was looking that if Richard could hang on, he was through.  You were able to come back strongly and finished it very decisively.  What were your feelings at that time in that situation? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I didn't have so good feelings when I was 4-2 down because, you know, I didn't know how to break him, you know.  He was serving really well, making so many aces, you know.  Even if I was returning well, he was putting the volleys, you know, he was playing really well.  But I didn't give up.  I kept fighting, you know. Finally I could come back after the 4-2.  I held my serve twice.  Last game, I knew if I was going to put the returns in, it was going to be a lot of pressure for him.  That's what I tried to do. 
 

Q.  Do you think he maybe tightened up a little bit when he could see victory so close?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I don't know.  I just did my best, you know.  He was playing well.  I knew if it was  going to be a close match, and third set he was going to be tighter, he was not going to serve as he did first set.  This match has been pretty similar as last year I play him.  He won the first set.  Second was easy for me both times.  Third was 6-4.  This time I was 4-2 down.  Last time I was 4-2 up. I knew when the match was, you know, tighter, it was going to be better for me.  He was not going to serve that well.  That's what I did, tried to play my best tennis, don't let him to put pressure on me, you know. 
 

Q.  Carlos, talking about your tennis, you reached the final in the Australian Open last year.  Do you think you are playing the best quality of your tennis on the red clay in this week?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think I never played better than that on clay.  Everything is working out, you know.  Today I had to change my tactic a little.  On the first serve, I knew if I make mistake first, he was going to get to the net second.  When he gets to the net, he's a very tough player, you know.  So I can say I'm playing my best tennis.  I don't know if I can compare it with Australia, because that was hard court and this is clay.  But on clay, for sure, I never played better than these days. 
 

Q.  Do you actually enjoy the different challenge of  playing a serve-volley player on the clay, that it brings you a different target, a different angle for your shots?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I didn't enjoy that much today (laughter).  I almost lose.  I feel lucky today.  But, you know, it's different.  They say the serve and volley game is not good for clay.  But players like Krajicek, Rafter, they prove that is not true, that their game is right to play here.  You know, I prefer to play baseline players.  But I think I'm able to beat these kind of players on hard, on clay, players such as Krajicek and Rafter.  So I think I can change my game, you know.  It depends on the opponent.  I can play baseline, I can go more to the net.  But I would prefer to play baseline player. 
 

Q.  So does that mean you'd prefer to play Berasategui than Pioline, even though Berasategui has beaten you in the last couple weeks?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I didn't say that.  I can't say Pioline has a similar game as Krajicek. 
 

Q.  But he does come into a net more than Berasategui?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  A bit more.  If he's coming a bit more than Berasategui, I don't care.  What I don't like that match, every point he tries to get to the net.  Pioline is such a good player from the baseline.  But I cannot say  which one I prefer.  True Berasategui beat me twice last two weeks, but here I'm feeling pretty confident with my serve.  After this victory today, I think I have good chances to win.  My opponent will have also good chances to win.  I cannot pick one, you know.  The one who's going to win means has played better today, so is going to be dangerous tomorrow. 
 

Q.  It does seem that each year one Spaniard particularly stands out.  Last year Corretja, semifinal here, Rome, Bruguera before.  Can you feel it's going to be you this year?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I hope so (laughter).  Well, all the Spanish played well here, but not only here, all the clay court tournaments is always good for the Spanish.  Well, I would like to play -- I mean, I'm very happy to play final here.  But I didn't finish yet.  Still one match to go.  I would love to win here because it's one of the my favorite tournaments.  It's really beautiful here.  You know, I'll do my best to try to win. 
 

Q.  Carlos, talking about this year, did you change something about your kind of practice, maybe fitness trainer or coach or what, in comparison with the last year? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yes, I did.  I changed my fitness trainer.  Talking with my coach, we knew what was wrong with my game, or what was not so good, you know.  I did a lot of service practicing, a lot of volleys.  I'm trying to get more to the net.  I'm trying. By now I think I already improve my volley and my serve. There is still a lot of work to do.  Playing my matches, you know, maybe not today, but last matches I tried to go more to the net, to finish the point.  That's one of the biggest changes, you know, my serve, and to play more aggressive. 
 

Q.  What's the name of the new trainer?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Jose Miguel Morales. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT