ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1997
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Carlos, you have set points in the first set. Second set.  What happened at two moments in the match?

CARLOS MOYA:  I think what happened, he played better these important moments.  I didn't play my best.  But also he played the best tennis in just this moment, you know.  I had so many chances to win, at least first set. I didn't take any of them.  So when you play against a good player as he is, you know, you take advantage of the chances you have or you are lost.  This is what happened to me.
  

Q.  What should you have done better in terms of aggressiveness or something like that to make these points?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, maybe not more aggressive. Even one of the points, I go to the net.  I tried to make winners.  I cannot say I was not aggressive.  Just two or three points, these points, I didn't play good maybe.  The other I play good.  I cannot say I was not aggressive at these points.  I play the same the whole  match.  This point, very important; it didn't work.  He played better.  He had more concentrate -- not more concentrate, but maybe he have more experience than me.  Today experience was very important.
  

Q.  I suppose that it's better this loss today; you are happy with your success in the tournament.  What does it tell you for next year?

CARLOS MOYA:  For sure I happy for this week I had.  But also disappointed because nobody likes to lose, even if you are in semifinal of a Master or final, whatever.  You never have enough, you know.  I'm very happy; not today.  I have to realize that I did a very good job this week.  I beat the No. 1 in the world, and probably winner of this tournament.  I don't know.  You never know.  He's playing good now.  I think he has a chance to beat Kafelnikov.  But also disappointed because I had many chances to be in final and I didn't take advantage of them.  On one hand, happy, but other hand not so happy.
  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT