ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 13, 1997
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Was it difficult preparing for one player and then preparing for a different one with about three hours' notice? 
 
CARLOS MOYA: Well, I mean, nothing to do. I have to play anyway. But they told me three hours before, they say that. I think for me it was better to play Muster. At least I can play my game, more my game. I mean, Rusedski doesn't let me play how I want. I wouldn't feel comfortable with his serve. With Muster, he is very good player. The court was very slow. It's good for him. But it's also good for me. I think it was not very difficult. Didn't disturb my concentration or something like this to change the player. 
   

Q. You've played three matches: two great ones and one medium one. How do you assess your form at the moment?
 
CARLOS MOYA: Well, I think I am playing very good. Beating Sampras gave me a lot of confidence. I lost yesterday, but it was against Rafter, very good player, specialist on this kind of court. Today I played very well again. So I think I'm pretty happy with what I did. I came here, I did my best, I was fighting every ball. Now we'll see what's going to happen tomorrow. But I'm pretty happy the way I played these days. 
   

Q. You were saying that you did not think that Thomas played his best, or it wasn't a quality match. Will you talk a bit more about that?
 
CARLOS MOYA: Well, I don't know. I mean, Muster is a very good player, and he did good results indoor last part of the year. So I don't think he's playing bad. I mean, today I played very well. I knew what was going to be good for me, the strategy what was good today worked out. I cannot say he played bad. Maybe he didn't play his best match ever. But Muster is always playing almost the same level. He's not going down. He's always fighting for every ball. Maybe it seemed easy from outside the way I beat him. It was not easy. It was 6-2, 6-3, but it was more what I think. I don't think he played his worst. He didn't play his best either. But I cannot say he played his worst.  
   

Q. Carlos, what are your feelings about tomorrow? You just had the chance to situate what Pete and Patrick are doing? No chance to influence anything.
 
CARLOS MOYA: I cannot do anything tomorrow. I had the chance to do it these days. I think I did it well. But now doesn't depend on me. I did my best. I won two matches. I lost one. Maybe like this I don't qualify, it would be bad luck. Rafter is playing well. Sampras is a great champion. Anything can happen tomorrow. I don't know. I hope I'm going to qualify. If not, bad luck. I did my best. I tried. I was fighting for every ball. You know, sometimes the game is like this.  
   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT