ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 10, 1997
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What are your feelings about the tournament?

CARLOS MOYA:  For me this is a great experience to be here.  Once I got here, I'm going to fight, do my best. I think I need to get a little experience to play here.  I'm going to do my best.  I'm going to fight.
  

Q.  What do you think about being here with the best players?

CARLOS MOYA:  All the players here are good.  I'm going to fight, do my best, try to win a match.
  

Q.  (Inaudible)

CARLOS MOYA:  I think it's not much.  He's a very good player.  He's No. 1 in the world.  As I told you, I'm going to fight.  I'm going to play my best.
  

Q.  What do you think about the group?

CARLOS MOYA:  The group I think is not that easy. Both groups are very tough.  I have big servers in my group, but I'm going to do my best trying to beat them.
  

Q.  (Inaudible)

CARLOS MOYA:  I feel okay.  The surface is pretty good.  It's slow.  I think it's good for me because I have more time to think and I'm able to play my game, not the  other's game.  Here the serve is very important, but not as important as when it's really fast.
  

Q.  (Inaudible)

CARLOS MOYA:  It's pretty slow this year. Practicing these days, I felt really comfortable here.  I can play more game, more than last weeks where it depends on their serve, the matches.  So I'm pretty happy.  Everybody told me it's much slower than last year.  Now all I have to do is play my best, just try my best.
  

Q.  How does it compare to the Grand Slams?

CARLOS MOYA:  It's different.  There's eight players, the best eight of the year.  It's good for me because it's different to be No. 7 in July and No. 7 now. For me, it's a surprise to be here.  I'm going to try to beat them, do my best.
  

Q.  (Inaudible)

CARLOS MOYA:  There's a little bit pressure because I was the whole year in the Top 5, 6, then I struggled. Maybe I was not able to make points and the others were catching me.  But finally I did make it.  Maybe that's why, the pressure, was not my surface.  I hope I'm going to do good here.  It's good, my forehand, so I put my game here on this hard court.  What I  have to improve is my attack game.  I have to go more for the volley, have to improve my serve because I'm serving okay, but for how tall I am, I think I can serve much better.
  

Q.  For you, what is the highlight, the best part of being a professional tennis player?

CARLOS MOYA:  For me?
  

Q.  Yes.

CARLOS MOYA:  The Australian Open, final.  It was my best ever.  I made it to a Grand Slam final.  I hope it's not going to be the last one.  But that one --
  

Q.  What's the worst part, other than traveling?

CARLOS MOYA:  Last year when I lost at Roland Garros.  I got killed 6-1, 6-2, 6-4.  It was my second year as a pro.  The worst of tennis or my career?
  

Q.  The worst of tennis.

CARLOS MOYA:  Travel so often.  Then when I lost (laughter).  The worst is this, the travel and far away from my friends, my family.  Sometimes you can feel alone.
  

Q.  How close are you two?  Do you guys practice together?

CARLOS MOYA:  Sometimes.  All the Spanish, we are very friendly.  We practice together, we go out together, go out to dinner.  Also the Swedish, they do it sometimes.  From the others, I never saw them being together, doing what we do.
  

Q.  Who would be better at football, the Spanish or the Swedish?

CARLOS MOYA:  From the tennis players?
  

Q.  Yes.

CARLOS MOYA:  I don't know.  Irrelevant.  Never saw them playing soccer.  The Spanish, we used to play. Wouldn't be easy for them to beat us.
  

Q.  You could beat Bjorkman, Kulti, all those guys?

CARLOS MOYA:  I think we will do it.
  

Q.  With Becker stopping, what do you think that will do to the game?

CARLOS MOYA:  He's been very important person in tennis.  Even he's been No. 1 maybe two, three years.  He has bigger name than maybe some other players that have been better players than him.  I don't know.  For German people, it will be not so easy to forget him.  But now we have good players coming like Kiefer and Haas.  So for them, it's the biggest change.  I think for the Spanish people, they don't care that much.  He's important for tennis, winning Wimbledon when he was young, good things for tennis.
  

Q.  The Spanish have done so well this year.  Do you  think there are more Spanish players that will step up and get attention?

CARLOS MOYA:  For sure.  Every year is the same. We are going to be more Spanish players coming from behind. Always more players.
  

Q.  You haven't been out for a night?

CARLOS MOYA:  I went out to drink something, 12:00, 12:30.
  

Q.  Would you like to see more of the city?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  But when we have time, we are tired.  We all like to go to the city, but get even more tired.  Just want to relax, rest.
  

Q.  You still love your life as a tennis professional?

CARLOS MOYA:  Sure.  Couldn't complain.  Many people would like to be in my situation.  I know it's very good life what I have, and I cannot complain.
  

Q.  (Inaudible)

CARLOS MOYA:  Not like this.  I like to be close to people.  they are not traveling with me every week, but only important weeks for me.
  

Q.  Special events?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yes.
  

Q.  Everybody's talking about the new generation in tennis.  What do you think about that?

CARLOS MOYA:  I think it's very good for tennis to  mix the new generation with the old players.  I think it's good not to be all the time the same players, but change and new faces coming.
  

Q.  What do you think about your first competition?

CARLOS MOYA:  It's tough here.  It's not easy draw.  But I came here to learn, to try to do my best.  I'm going to try to win as many matches as possible.
  

Q.  So you're not here to win?

CARLOS MOYA:  I came here to learn, try to win as many matches as possible for me.  But I know it's going to be difficult.  I'm going to fight, do my best.
  

Q.  (Inaudible)

CARLOS MOYA:  Joking (laughter).  Indoor, I never play that well.  Here I hope it's going to be different.  I like the surface, is good for me.  (Inaudible).  Tennis, all the players are improving.  It's not easy to keep the highest level.
  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT