MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 9, 2007
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Last year you had a very memorable opening  round match against Carlos, and you survived another difficult one this  year. Are you still encouraged by your  form, being able to get through a match like that?  
 CARLOS MOYA: Well, it's been a pretty hard match. It's not the one I wanted to have today  because I got here last night after a very long trip. I wanted to have a straight set victory. I think he played a great match. I think it's going to give me  confidence. I'm a little bit tired right  now, but for sure tomorrow I'll be fine, and these kind of matches give you a  lot of confidence.  
  
  Q.  What do you think after you've had such a difficult match like that and  then you hear of so many other top players pulling out of the tournament? It happens year after year a week before the  Australian Open, players have always got injuries and they pull out. How do you feel like that after you've worked  so hard out there?  
 CARLOS MOYA: Well, I feel like I'm fit. I've been practising very hard this  winter. You know, I don't want to  retire; I just want to keep winning, and if I have the chance to win, I have to  win. I cannot choose when I'm going to  be playing well or when I want to win matches.  If I have the chance, I'm going to take it. I'm not top ten anymore right now. When you're top ten, maybe you can save  energy for big events. But right now I'm  not in that position; I have to win if I have the chance. I don't think I'm going to get to retirement;  depends how I'm going to do here. But I  have to take it match by match and see how it goes.   
  
  Q.  Do you think some of those top players, their injuries are not possibly  as bad as they seem, and that might have something to do with them pulling out,  they're just saving themselves?  
 CARLOS MOYA: Are you talking about Rafael?   
  
  Q.  Not just Rafael, but every year. Kuznetsova  pulled out, Srichaphan pulled out this morning.  Every year there's always lots of pull-outs.   
 CARLOS MOYA: This happens.  I know I pulled out a couple times here, and I was really hurt when that  happened. You know, I don't know what  the others are doing, but I know Srichaphan was having trouble with his wrist  back in India last week. Also, Rafael, I knew he wasn't feeling that  well. I cannot talk about something that  I don't really know, but these two players, for sure they were injured.  
   
  End  of FastScripts…  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT