ATP MASTER SERIES MADRID
October 16, 2006
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Let's talk about something different, not about the match.  You're meeting colleagues like Alex Corretja and other colleagues.  How are you living in the situation that you are at now, like an intermediate situation? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think I'm the last of that generation, the only one remaining.  I think it has been the best generation of history.  To be the last one, and leaving aside a match like today's, I'm trying to keep up, I'm trying to win matches, and that makes me feel proud. 
 I'll try to extend my career and my stay here in the circuit.  I'm the last one of this generation actually.  The one after me would be Ferrero, but he's five years younger. 
 But I'll keep on continuing for a few more years.  That depends on my body and how I feel.  In my case I'm not really burned out. 

 Q.  In collaboration with Luis, it seems you're going to keep with him.  You started winning at Shanghai.  You started strong? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  It is difficult to keep a high level week after week.  For me it is difficult to keep up.  I need to take advantage of the times I'm there.  Maybe I need to keep constant and be a bit more aware to play at a constant level.  I need to take advantage of my good moments and extend them in time. 

 Q.  But your experience, you have 20 years experience, that's a lot you have learned.  I've read of you in India.  You've traveled? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Yes.  It's actually been a whole life.  All I know is how to do the best thing.  And as long as my body is fit, I'm going to try to take advantage of my time here.  Maybe I've got two years left, maybe a bit more.  But I'll try to give my best and to enjoy it. 

 Q.  As you get closer to the time of withdrawal from tennis, what are your thoughts? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  I don't think it's something immediate.  It's not going to be immediately.  Not in a year, not in a few years.  When the time comes, I guess one knows that it has come.  My level has been great this year.  But if you ask me now, this has been one of the worst matches I've played this year.  Maybe if you ask me before the match, my answer would have been I'm still feeling fit, competitive, and there is people at my age that are close to me in the ranking, but they were not better than me before.  That keeps me enthusiastic and makes me want to stay in the circuit for a long time. 

 Q.  We all know that your life will go on.  We all know that your career has been different.  You've been a model.  You've played parts in films. 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Actually, yes.  My life has been interesting, yes.  If there are things more interesting than that, I cannot tell right here.  I've never liked to spend all my life in tennis 24 hours a day.  I like my mind to travel and focus on different things.  Those are a few things that I do.  I also have a gym which is working and fun.  Outside tennis that's the only thing I've got.  Then I have some experiences I developed. 

 Q.  Carlos, how are you going to prepare for next season?  This is your last tournament, I guess.  What are the goals for the beginning of next year? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think I need to rest a little bit.  That's going to suit me okay.  A week holiday, maybe a few weeks, then maybe I'll start training.  I don't know, what's the date today?  Maybe two or three weeks from now I will take holidays.  I go to Argentina for a few weeks in December.  I've got an exhibition there in Argentina.  I'll stay there two weeks.  I'll come back for Christmas to Spain, and then we'll start again. 

 Q.  Carlos, what is the problem you find in Madrid?  You're not confident here?  You see the end of the season coming closer? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  I think the problem is the altitude.  For a reason I've never felt comfortable here playing so high.  Even when I was five, seven, top in the world, I found it difficult to play here.  I don't feel very comfortable here. 
 The reason, I cannot tell.  Because my serve is quite good.  I should have earned better results.  I don't think it's a matter of the calendar, of it being close to the end of the season, because sometimes I have been closer to the end of the year and I've played well. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT