WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2006
Akiko Morigami
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Quite a crazy game, going up so much in both sets.  What did it feel like? 
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  Well, I'm very, very disappointed because we had a triple match point.  I went for the shots but just made a mistake by like one inch, I would say.  But that's the point I think I done pretty much the right thing to do.  The thing was I made a mistakes. 
 The next point, unfortunately she didn't make a returns, but that always happen sometimes.  Then next point, I run inside-out to hit her forehand, but I didn't expect she was going to hit a lob.  I mean, it was good playing by her. 
 Well, I think we improved a lot since French Open, I would say.  We communicate better.  I know what she's going to do.  She probably knows what I'm going to do. 
 Well, it's very disappointed, but I think the way to look at it, it's very good.  Unfortunately, we lost, I'm very disappointed.  I think it's going to be better. 

 Q.  You plan to play together in the future and progress? 
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  Yeah, hopefully, yes. 

 Q.  You told us yesterday that Wimbledon was going to see good doubles matches from the Japanese.  With your other Japanese teammates not doing so well, how do you feel about that? 
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  Hmm (smiling).  Well, today -- well, I don't know.  It's a good question. 
 I feel like, well, obviously she lost first round, so she was a little bit down after singles obviously.  I lost yesterday.  I tried to think of the positive way in today.  We just basically, both of us, just bring it up today.  Actually, fan was on side with us today.  It was a lot of fun.  I think we showed them pretty good match.  I hope they actually satisfied little bit. 
 But, you know, I wanted to do well with the Japanese teams.  But unfortunately we lost.  But it happens.  You know, win, lose, always.  She competed all the way to the end and I competed all the way to the win.  Sometimes win or lose, it just happens. 
 You know, before she gets here, she felt a little bit like not playing well or she wasn't feeling too well about herself, little bit like that.  But now she feels a little bit confidence back. 
 You know, I told her, Just play your game.  I don't care if you lose or not.  Let's have fun and enjoy it.  So I think we could do that.  It was fun. 
 Any questions to Ms. Nakamura?  And in English (smiling). 
 Thank you. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT