TMS - MADRID
October 18, 2005
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Carlos. 


Q.  "Nadal, Nadal," now Moya is going to win the tournament? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it's difficult.  This is the first step.  We've still got a few steps to go.  I think the match was correct on my side.  First rounds are never easy.  Maybe this was easier than I expected.  I hope to keep playing this way during the next matches. 

Q.  How are you feeling?  You were warming up your shoulder and back before the match. 

CARLOS MOYA:  My shoulder is going to be this way for the rest of this tournament.  If the match is long, it does hurt a little bit.  But for the moment, it doesn't hurt.  It's given me no problems compared to before. 

Q.  I don't know if you were present at the meeting with Emilio Sanchez Vicario yesterday.  You know the subject of players wanting Costa.  Are we going to see you in the Davis Cup? 

CARLOS MOYA:  I have no problems with Emilio myself.  Players have already said this.  But if they could choose, they'd rather have Costa.  But I think both of them could be very good captains.  They are all younger than myself.  Albert is closer to them maybe and knows them better.  On that side, I do understand the players feel closer to Costa, but they have nothing against Emilio.  The only thing is that they've been asked their opinion, and their opinion has been not taken into consideration.  Besides that, we'll see what happens. 

Q.  Albert told us yesterday that that could be his last match.  What about you? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I have not got 10 years ahead, but I still want to play a bit more, maybe two years if my physique and injuries allow me.  I would like to play all I can, following Agassi's path - although this is difficult because he's one of the best players in tennis history. 

Q.  At the beginning of this year you said your goals were based on singles tournaments.  Towards next year, do you have the same goals, for instance, try Davis Cup again? 

CARLOS MOYA:  I haven't thought about it yet.  Let's see how this year ends, then I'll think about it.  This has been a very strange year because of injuries and because of the fact of having won the Davis Cup last year.  Mentally I've focused the year on a different way.  I've had my injuries.  This year my goals were not clear.  Let's see how my year ends, and then I'll prepare my goals towards the next one. 

Q.  Right now you do not deny the fact that you can return, do you? 

CARLOS MOYA:  No. 

Q.  You were not present at the meeting with the president? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yes.  I was in the one with Emilio. 

Q.  Why not in the other one? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Because I was told about Emilio's meeting beforehand, but not about the other one.  The meeting with the president was a day I couldn't attend.  I had things to do.  I have no problems with the president anyway. 

Q.  (In English)  You were No. 1 in the world.  Juan Carlos has been, too.  There's never been a "Nadal-Mania" before like that.  How can you explain that? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Because maybe none of us won 10 tournaments in the same year and none of us won three Masters Series and one Grand Slam when we were 19.  That's why probably. 

Q.  Are you surprised? 

CARLOS MOYA:  About what's happening to him or about what he's won already? 

Q.  What's happening, the popularity. 

CARLOS MOYA:  No, I guess it's normal.  He's doing something that not even Federer has done.  What he's done so far only Borg or McEnroe or Connors or these guys did it before.  I guess it's normal that everybody's talking about him like that. 

Q.  (Translated from Spanish)  You're Nadal's friend.  Has he spoken to you about his injury?  What would you do, or advise him, if you were in a similar situation? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, we each have our own body.  I'm not the person to advise Nadal about his injury and his knee.  He's facing a difficult situation because it's the only tournament being played in Spain.  He also needs to approach No. 1, too.  He has a very compromising situation - not as mine, but very compromising situation.  Different levels. 

Q.  Nadal has already said he'll be at the football stadium tomorrow. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I have been twice, and last time I went there it was not a good experience.  I went when Mallorca won 0-2.  Then with Barcelona, well, it was not a good experience.  I have nothing against it.  It's a pity because of the schedule.  Let's see if my match -- if the time of my match can be changed. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT