ROGERS CUP
July 22, 2008
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  T. HAAS/C. Moya
6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What happened today? 
 CARLOS MOYA: I just lost, so not much. He played very well. You know, I'm not playing my best and these things happen. My first tournament on hard court, so it's a little hard to adapt. But still, he played great tennis. 

 Q. Do you still feel that you're recovering from the injury that forced you to miss Wimbledon this year? 
 CARLOS MOYA: Well, not really. I'm getting better, but last four months I haven't been able to practice more than two days in a row without pain in my leg, so it's hard. 
 Now it's better. Today was better. But the thing is, not being able to practice that well I feel like out of shape, not playing well, not practicing well, not moving well. 
 When you play a guy like Haas you have to be 100% fit to have a chance to win the match. You know, I want to be fit again 100%, play with no pain. 
 Today was okay, but now I need the rhythm of competition and the rhythm of practicing well and play sets in my practice and try to get better. 

 Q. What exactly is it in the leg?
 CARLOS MOYA: I have the tendon insertion. The tendon here, the hamstring. It's inflammated (sic) and also the muscle is not -- is contractor, I think. I don't know how you call it in English.

 Q. Strained?
 CARLOS MOYA: It's been hurting for the last four months. Now looks like it's better. What I need now, as I said, is to practice, be confident with my leg, and move better than I'm doing. 
 Because I feel very heavy on the court and I cannot move well. It's tough to play like this. 

 Q. If you're not feeling 100%, why do you continue to play? Seems like you achieved so much already. 
 CARLOS MOYA: Well, now I start to feel better. I had three weeks off after Paris and then practice again. And after one, two weeks it was hurting again. 
 So, you know, I prefer to play tournaments to keep a little bit of rhythm. And even I know I'm -- I don't have chance to win many matches, but I still have that rhythm. I prefer to be here than at home, because I don't have anybody to practice there. That's even worse. 
 So here at least I can practice well and do all the treatment. You know, that's the reason. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT