TMS MONTE CARLO
April 12, 2005
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Obviously, Carlos, he seems to be causing you trouble.  He's beaten you, I think, the last three times.

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, looks like. But I think he is playing very well.  He's very confident right now.  I think I played a good match.  I had many chances, and I didn't convert them.  So when this happens, you lose. So I am disappointed because I lost, but I think in the three matches we played each other last couple of months this has been the best for me, and still I didn't beat him.  So I don't know what I'm gonna do the next time.


Q.  Starting the season on clay, obviously at this point you are disappointed you lost, but how are you feeling about your tennis?  Is it in place, where you want it to be?

CARLOS MOYA:  Obviously, I would like my tennis to be a little bit on higher level.  This tournament has been very good for me.  I've won many matches here.  Now, losing first round, it's tough.  It was also very tough draw for me.  There are so many players, they are not clay court players and it would be their first tournament, so it's a good tournament to win matches.  But I been unlucky because I had to play him.  I knew that even if I am able to play good match, I still could lose.  That happened today. I'm gonna keep working hard for the next couple of weeks, and for sure I am going to get better next days.


Q.  Did you feel he was more confident after winning on Sunday Casablanca?  Did you sense he was more confident than previously?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it always helps to win a tournament, but I thought that it would be tough for him to adapt to the conditions here, I guess; they are different than Casablanca.  He got here yesterday.  After you win a tournament, you relax a little bit.  Today, he didn't look like he was relaxing at all. I thought, to be honest, that I would have good chance to win this match, and during the first set I had many chances.  I think if that tiebreak -- if I had won that tiebreak, the match would be different.  But I didn't so... He has played better the important moments than I did.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT