NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 25, 2005
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  This was a very compelling match.  What did you think, your impressions?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it's been very exciting; had many chances.  I had a lot of ups and downs.  I really been inconsistent.  But when the important moments came, I think I play my best and I think that's why I won today.  I think he didn't lose, but I won.  I fought for the victory.  You know, I just been lucky and I played better than him in those moments.  But, you know, I think he's been unlucky today.  He had many chances to win, and I been lucky to get through this match.

Q.  Can you talk about that last point.  You were shaking his hand on the ground. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, well, when I won that point, I didn't see him, that he fell down and he was cramping.  So I just celebrate that victory.  And then when I turn to him, I saw him, that he was on the floor, what happened.  Then he told me he was cramping.  He was okay.  It's better that than twisting his ankle, something.  So I went there.  I think it was a tough match to lose for him because he had many chances and he was disappointed for sure.  I ask him how he feels, and he told me he was cramping and was okay. 

Q.  There were three matchpoints; is that right?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I think so.

Q.  Can you talk about those. 

CARLOS MOYA:  I remember two of them - one passing shot backhand down the line and one ace.  The third one, I don't remember how it was.  But, you know, those moments you feel like you going back home.  I hang in there and then I came back and, you know, it didn't get any easy in the third.  I thought that he would get crazy little bit, and I broke his serve and he broke me back.  And once you're into a tiebreak, anything can happen. 

Q.  How well do you know him?  Have you played him a lot?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, we played many times and he beat me once, I beat him the others.  I think he's a very complete player.  If he has a good day, he's able to beat any player in the world.  He has a huge forehand and he's an athlete.  He was just unlucky last year that he missed most part of the season due to injury.  But I think when he plays well, he's one of the Top 20 guys, I would say.

Q.  The other thing is, what does a match like this do for your confidence or does it not really matter, the idea that you overcome matchpoints, a tiebreak?

CARLOS MOYA:  Of course it matters.  I don't know what's gonna happen after here, but for sure I'm going to get to the court with much more confidence, knowing that I beat a guy, he had three matchpoints, he played a great match and I still beat him.  I try to change the rhythm of the match, go to the volley, so many things.  So hopefully it's going to give me a lot of confidence.

Q.  Is this a place that you like to play in, Key Biscayne?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.

Q.  Can you talk about that, the atmosphere, a lot of Spanish-speaking people. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, there are many Latin people here, so we get great support from the crowd.  It's a place I love.  I have great memories.  I played final couple years ago; last year, quarters.  Served for the match against Roddick.  I came here as the No. 1 in '99.  I having great memories and hopefully I'm gonna play at a good level this year. 

Q.  Was it a bit hot out there today?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, it's been very hot, very humid.  I felt like there was no energy left on me.  But when you get to a tiebreak, you do anything to win, and that's what I did today. 

Q.  Can you compare the weather here to other tournaments. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it's complicate here because it's hot, humid, but it's windy.  So conditions are not great for to play here.  But same thing for the opponent, same conditions.  You just do your best and try to survive.

Q.  Do you know who you might meet next? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I'm playing Thomas Johansson.

Q.  Can you talk about him. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, he beat me a couple times, so it looks like he's coming back to the level where he was a couple years ago.  He has a great serve, a great backhand, a good return.  So now I don't want to think on that match, I just want to enjoy the victory today and I'll think about that tomorrow. 

Q.  Do you think that Blake is back to his former form?  As you said, he struggled quite a bit but he seems to be playing much better now. 

CARLOS MOYA:  He's playing very well.  Just matter of time.  He's been injured for a long time last year, and many things happened to him, and still he's young.  He's gonna be able for sure to come back at his best level.  He just needs a victory like he deserve today.  I think once that happen, everything is gonna change for him. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT