AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2005
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  How did it get away?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think I start the match playing pretty well, I had it under control I think.  And 3-1, Love-40, and then 5-4 serving I played horrible game. Then I lost control little bit and I lose the rhythm and made many mistakes with my forehand.  And once he won the first set, he started to play better and I play worse and worse.  Then I didn't have no chance.  He was playing better than me.

Q.  How much of a disappointment is it for you? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, is a big disappointment.  Is first round.  I was playing well before I came here.  I think it's still that he played a great game.  I think he's gonna go higher in the rankings. But if I had won that first set, I think that things would have changed little bit.  But I didn't, so I'm really sad right now to leave the tournament.  But, I mean, things are like this.

Q.  The fact that you played five matches in Chennai, did that have any effect on the way you felt physically? 

CARLOS MOYA:  No, I don't think so.  I had few days to recover now.  Last four, five days were okay.  I had good practice.  I think it has nothing to do with that.  When you win the tournament, you get here more confident and with the rhythm.  It was perfect preparation.  But something was wrong today.  (Inaudible), but it was not my day today. 

Q.  Was it a case of him playing a really good match or you not playing as well? 

CARLOS MOYA:  I think both.  I think I played really bad.  My serve and my forehand didn't help at all and they are my best two weapons.  So didn't help me. And also he played great match.  He was not -- he didn't feel the pressure at all, and last game he played unbelievable.  He hits the ball very hard.  I think today both things happened.

Q.  Did you know much about him before playing him today? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I see him few times.  We practice together, and he was the Davis Cup hitting partner.  I play him in Chennai last week and I beat him 7-6 in the third so I knew what to expect today.  I knew that was going to be difficult. But I thought if I'm able to play my game and to play well, you know, I would have my chances. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT