DAVIS CUP FINALS, USA vs. SPAIN
December 3, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Carlos.  
 
 
Q.  Can you tell us the difference between how it feels right now and how it felt after the match against Mathieu in France?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  It's a big difference.  That match, I didn't play bad, but, I mean, I was really down because was the first point of the tie.  Starting 1-0 down, it's not easy for us.  And now, today, we were counting with this win.  But you have to win on court, not off court.  I think my game is much better than it was two months ago.  We are very close to win, but still far.  We have to go step by step and let's see if Rafa can win this match right now.  
 
Q.  Were you surprised at all the first two games?  He won the first eight points of the match.  What was going through your mind at that point?  Did you think, "I have plenty of time to straighten this out"? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I know, sooner or later it will change.  If he's able to play that level for the whole match, best-of-five sets on clay, that would be unbelievable.  But I knew that his chances is to attack and try to go for the winner and serve very well the whole match.  But there's no way that he can play that way the whole match.  And I also was a little bit nervous at the beginning.  But I knew that that was going to change.  I started to play much more solid than I was doing, and he started to miss his first serves.  That's what we thought that was going to happen.  I'm very happy the way I played, very solid.  I didn't do anything really spectacular, but I played a solid match.  That's what I needed today to beat him.  
 
Q.  (Translated from Spanish)  A couple of days before the match, did you have ever think that you could lose this match? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  (Translated from Spanish)  Well, in tennis you can't take anything for granted, obviously.  Two months ago, it's not that I thought I was going to win, but we were counting on this point.  I was mentally prepared to start the tie 1-0, so I was ready for it.  But I started playing during the first two games, and then I calmed down.  I started getting like building up the pace, and it worked.  
 
Q.  Does it surprise you that the Americans played Mardy Fish when they had Vince Spadea who, A, is comfortable on clay, and has a better ranking at this time? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I don't know how the captain is making the team.  But I think it's obvious that Vince is a better player on clay, more solid player.  But also I have a very good record against him.  He's not a player that really bothers me to play on clay.  Maybe I thought that Mardy has the potential to play really good tennis.  He has a good day, he can beat any player.  Maybe that's what they thought.  But I think maybe on clay, is more solid, Vince than Mardy.  
 
Q.  (Translated from Spanish)  Were you surprised with the atmosphere of the public, people in the stadium?  Did they cheer you, overcoming your expectations or did you have those expectations about them? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  (Translated from Spanish)  Yes, well, actually that's what I expected for the public.  I expected a full stadium.  I expected 26,000 people there, a lot of colors, cheering, a lot of flags.  So I did have very high expectations for the public here.  They have actually lived up to them.  That's partly one of the reasons why it was decided to play here.  
 
Q.  (Translated from Spanish)  It seemed now that you have managed to score this first point, the tie is more open. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  (Translated from Spanish)  What do you mean?  
 
Q.  (Translated from Spanish)  Well, maybe because apparently the US team was supposed to be the favorite team before the tie began. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  (Translated from Spanish)  Well, really?  Where did you read that?  According to whom were they the favorites?  Well, yes, of course we can surprise them.  Spain at least is 50% favorite.  Spain does respect the US team a lot.  We believe that the US team could certainly win, but Spain has the chance and we're going to try to make sure that Spain wins, and maybe we'll come up with the surprise that Spain ends up winning.  
 
Q.  (Translated from Spanish)  My colleagues, the other journalists from the US, when they were interviewing Mardy before, they thought that maybe part of the reasons why Mardy lost was the support from the crowd, the Spanish fans, the pressure coming from there.  What do you think about this?  What do you think is more likely, that Roddick scores a point or that you win the doubles tomorrow? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  (Translated from Spanish)  Firstly, well, it is impressive.  It is even impressive for me, and I had them on my side supporting me.  So I can actually understand what Mardy felt.  But it's, as I said -- for him, it must be a very tough situation to play in that court, on clay, best-of-five sets.  Of course the US team is under a lot of pressure.  If they lose the point either this afternoon or tomorrow, that's going to be a deadly setback for them.  It's going to be terrible for them.  Of course, there's nothing certain.  If we manage to win today or tomorrow, then it seems that we will have the ties much closer to us.  
 
Q.  Can you talk a bit about Nadal, about when you first saw him play, what you think about his personality, his tennis, his future? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it was a long time ago.  
 
Q.  Do you remember how old he was when you saw him?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  He was 12, I think.  We were playing in Stuttgart, indoor tournament.  I knew his uncle, his coach.  He came to me with Nike guys that were there, asked me if he can hit with me.  I said, "Of course."  I heard about him already, but I never saw him playing.  So I hit like 20 minutes, half hour with him.  For his age, I realized that he was pretty good.  But you never know what can happen with a kid, 12 years old.  He can be very good, but then he can be unlucky or be injured or he cannot improve the way he was supposed to.  But I realized he was very good.  And after that, I became really close to him.  Since then, I've been practicing with him very often.  So I know his progression, I know what he's done all this time.  I think he can be a great champion.  He's the kind of guy that likes to play these kind of matches.  So I really trust him, I believe in him.  
 
Q.  (Translated from Spanish)  How do you feel about your match with Roddick on Sunday?  What do you think about the doubles match tomorrow?  You said that this could actually be a deadly setback against the US team, but what do you think?  What do you feel about it? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  (Translated from Spanish)  Well, as for Sunday, it really depends on how we get there, what the score is when we get to that match.  But in any case, it will certainly be a tough match because Andy does adapt to clay quite well.  He can play quite low and he moves really, really well.  As for the second question regarding the doubles match tomorrow, it is actually much more open than people think.  I do trust very much Tommy and Rafa, what they can do tomorrow.  Furthermore, the Bryans do not play that well on clay.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT