TENNIS MASTERS CUP- HOUSTON
November 18, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English for Carlos, please.  
 
 
Q.  Tough match, good match.  You obviously feel you had your chances. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I had.  I am disappointed because it was a really close match and I had my chances.  I made one out of nine breakpoints, so when you do that against Federer, you lose. So there's not much I can say.  But all together, I think it has been a good match.  If I had won one of those points, it probably could have been different.  But as I said, you have to take your chances.  Otherwise, you lose.  
 
Q.  Many players said the same thing as you said against Federer.  What makes him so tough to break, to beat, to dominate? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it's not just against Federer, it's against any top player.  I mean, the difference is two, three, four points during the whole match. So if you lucky and you win a few of those points, you win the match; if not, forget about it. So it's not just Federer.  Maybe with Federer even more.  But you have to take your chances.  If not, you lose.  
 
Q.  When you go on court to play him, do you have the same feeling as another player, or you feel it will be something special, that you will have to do more to beat him?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it's probably a different feeling.  You play against a guy that is dominating tennis in a way that it was a long time ago that somebody did like this. So you may be a little more under pressure.  You try to take more risk because you don't expect him to miss that much.  You know that if you get to have few chances, you have to make them.  So maybe you play with more pressure than against any other guy.  
 
Q.  Does he intimidate other players?  You're old enough, you can go back to the days when Sampras was at his peak.  Does he intimidate opponents in the same way Sampras did? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think maybe not as much as Sampras, Agassi, Becker, Edberg.  But maybe it's because I was much younger than them. Now, I see things different.  He's much younger than me.  Also, that he talks to all the players, he's very nice guy.  I'm not saying that the others are not nice, but they are different - they go, they do their own thing and that's it.  Roger is a guy that you can talk to him and he talks to you, he says "hi" every day.  So that makes him not as intimidating like maybe the other guys.  
 
Q.  Did you feel that Roger was more beatable today than perhaps normal? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Why?  
 
Q.  I mean, he wasn't quite playing at his normal level. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, you mean that he already qualified and he didn't give his best?  
 
Q.  No, I'm not saying that.  I'm saying he didn't perhaps play his best today.  Did you feel that perhaps he had some chances that perhaps he wouldn't normally get? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think I played pretty good match today.  I put a lot of pressure with my serve and with my forehand.  I mean, he played 80, 90 matches this year.  Sometimes he's gonna play better than others. I guess today maybe he missed few more than he usually does, but, still, he's the No. 1.  
 
Q.  I guess now it's straight into Davis Cup preparation.  Will you go back to Spain, and what will be your schedule from now on?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, if I am right, I think I still have chance to qualify here, so if I am done here, I am going to start to think about Davis Cup. But as long as I have chances, I am going to still be thinking about this tournament.  So let's say that if I don't qualify, I'll go back to Spain and start playing on -- practicing on clay court. 
 
Q.  When does the Spanish team get together? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I heard Thursday or Friday.  That's what I heard.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT