TENNIS MASTERS CUP- HOUSTON
November 16, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English, please, for Carlos. 


Q.  Can you talk about the difficulty of his serve.  You didn't get a breakpoint chance.  It was just a tough day?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, he served very well today.  I didn't have any chance to break him.  That was the only thing that I'm not happy about, about my return.   But the rest, I'm pretty happy the way I played today.  I didn't play much for a month and a half.  So given the conditions, I think I played a great match.  He also played very well.  There were a few key points, two or three.  It was a really close match, and I didn't win those points.  So when you play a guy like Lleyton and you don't take your chances, you lose.  But in general, I'm happy the way I played.  Disappointed because I lost, it's going to be harder for me to qualify.  But I think it's been a great match. 

Q.  How wise do you think it is to play this tournament outdoors, given what weather has been like and what it could be like? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, what can I say?  I don't know how is the weather here in November every year.  So-so?  It's like this or...? 

Q.  So I'm told. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Last year we also had a few problems with that.  But it's not their fault, I mean, from the organizers.  They put a lot of money, they made a great effort to have this tournament, and they know they made few mistakes last year and they have improved a lot.   So the weather, is nothing that they can do.  It's bad luck.  I don't think that they are guilty about that, not at all.

Q.  But a Masters is normally always played indoors. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  I don't know for how long it's been indoors.

Q.  If you go back to Hannover, Frankfurt. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, in all the Masters I been and all the Masters I know, it was played indoor.  But I don't know the situation, I don't know the circumstances, and so it's better not to talk about this when I don't know what really happened. 

Q.  Despite your recent shoulder problems, I thought you looked really sharp in your match against Lleyton.  How is your shoulder holding up?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, it's much better now.  I had few problems during the whole season, and at the end was much worse.  So I decided to rest, to recover, and also recover mentally.  The last two or three years have been very tough, very tight schedule, a lot of matches, a lot of travels.  You know, it was time to rest.  And now I listen to my body when it gives me a warning.  I decided to rest, and I practiced very hard this month and a half.  I wanted to be ready for this Masters Cup and also for the Davis Cup.  So now I feel that I'm playing well again, like I did the first half of the year.  But I need to play a few more matches, and not only one good match, but I need to play good matches to believe in myself again and to be the same player I was at the beginning of the year. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT