US OPEN
September 2, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question.  
 
 
Q.  How did you feel in your second set?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, the second set was not very good.  I think the whole match I played just one bad game, and was when he broke me.  But after that I kept concentrated and really focused.  I'm happy the way I play today.  He's not an easy guy.  He serve very big.  And my return were very good today.  
 
Q.  The last set, you got seven or eight match points.  Was it kind of tough?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  A little.  But I was relaxed because I had two breaks up.  So in case that he broke that serve, I still have the chance to close the match on my serve.  So maybe in another situation I would be a little frustrated.  But that was not the occasion.  I just kept playing, keep being very focused.  
 
Q.  Your next opponent is Olivier Rochus, Belgian player.  Do you know him?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I know him very well.  We played two times, one this year and one in the Olympics.  One in Bastad last year.  I beat him both times.  But he dangerous player, he beat two players here.  I have to be careful.  There are going to be a lot of rallies.  I'll try to play my tennis, hit winners.  I have to be careful of him.  
 
Q.  What do you expect from that match?  Will he take you again to four sets, five sets?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, you never know.  You just hope when you get to the court, just to win the match no matter what the score is.  At this stage, the most important thing is to win and is to make points.  I'm playing better and better every day.  After the first day, I was struggling a little bit.  Today, I played a little better.  And for surely, next round I'm going to play even better than today.  
 
Q.  Do you feel comfortable in the US Open?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I like the tournament very much.  Is a Grand Slam.  Is the last of the year.  You know, you just try to put all the energy here because there have been many matches, many tournaments so far this year.  But you have to make the effort to try to play well here.  Is a very important tournament.  I think if I play well here, I could be almost in the Masters Cup, which is my main goal for this year.  So I'm very focused, very concentrate here.  Hopefully I'm going to play the tournament.  
 
Q.  He's a young player, second year on the tour.  How can you evaluate his tennis?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  He has very good serve.  Maybe he could play better from baseline, but he's very dangerous.  He has not experience yet.  But I think he can be very good.  His serve is great.  He volleys okay.  From the baseline, he uses his slice to try to get to the net.  But still he's making few mistakes, more than normal.  But, as you said, this is his second year on the tour, and he still can improve a lot.  
 
Q.  Did he surprise you in a way today?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  It was the first time.  I remember last year I practice with him.  But in one year, so many things can happen.  And I didn't know what to expect from myself after that first match that I started playing really bad.  At the end was okay.  I was practicing very well.  But getting to the match, I didn't know how it was going to be.  I was lucky at the first games.  I broke his serve, I got confidence from that.  But when you play these guys, you don't know much about them, is kind of tough.  So you try to concentrate and to look for his weaknesses, what his weapons is.  I think I did that very well.  So today I had a plain advantage in that sense, because for sure he knows how I play, I didn't know anything about him.  
 
Q.  Can you tell me about your favorite vacation and why it was your favorite vacation?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Last year in Thailand. 
 
Q.  What did you do or like about it?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Do you want to know everything what I did?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I cannot say everything.  No, I'm kidding.  I went with a friend.  We were scuba diving.  We were going with the boat, swimming at the beach, going out little bit.  Was good, good experience. 
 
Q.  Where did you stay, what hotel?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  It was in Phuket.  I don't remember the name, but was good hotel.  
 
Q.  In what way you will play Olivier Rochus?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I will try to play my game.  Is different game than today.  Today I just try to very concentrate on my return.  Against Rochus is not going to be enough.  What I said is that I've decided I can play my game.  There are going to be many rallies.  I'll try to use my forehand to move him and try to go for the winner.  There is no secret.  That's my game, and that's what I'm going to try.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT