OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 16, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Did you plan for a three-hour training session? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Not really.  I knew was going to be tough match, but, I mean, it's been very exciting for me to be out there.  Anybody could have won that match.  And, I mean, I was lucky to win it.  I could win in straight sets, and I didn't make it.  Then he had many chances to win the match.  He didn't make it.  It has been a strange match.  Very windy, tough conditions.  But I'm very happy to be to the second round.  
 
Q.  Did you feel at 3-5 and 4-5 in the third set that it was gone, especially after you'd had that match point in the tiebreak?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No, I never thought that it was done at all.  I had chances in the second, and I didn't make it.  So I thought that maybe this could happen to him, and indeed it happened.  But obviously I didn't break his serve since the third game of the first set, and he was serving for the match.  So, I mean, he hit couple double-faults, and then I played two good points.  Then 5-4, 15-40 for him, two match points.  I mean, I just kept fighting and, you know, finally it paid off. 
 
Q.  Is the best thing in winds like that just to hit the ball as hard as you can or is it better to play safe?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Depends.  I think that when you are against the wind, you have to hit as hard as you can.  When you play with the wind, try to put the ball in.  But the thing is that you're not very confident when you're playing in such windy conditions.  Even if you are against the wind, you cannot hit as hard as you can.  So today what I did is try to survive and try to put as many balls as I could.  But I think he played a very good match.  His serve was very good, forehand, backhand.  You know, I just tried to run a lot and to put as many balls in as I could.  
 
Q.  About the wind, clearly all the players have been talking about how bad it is.  Can you remember ever playing in wind this strong?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  During one year you play many matches with such windy conditions, and it's tough, it's not easy.  And also the court is very fast and he was playing really well, hitting very hard.  So those were the worst conditions for me.  That's why I'm very happy - not the way I played, but the way I won the match.  
 
Q.  You've now got doubles.  Three hours of singles, and the doubles later today.  Do you sometimes regret entering the doubles?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  In any other competition maybe I would regret, but not here.  Here is a special tournament for me.  If it was another tournament, I will save energy for the next matches, but not today.  I think I still have energy left in my body, and I'm going to give it all to try to win the doubles.  
 
Q.  You would have played this doubles match yesterday if Nadal hadn't been playing in Poland. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, but I think he had to do that.  He had to be there.  And he won the tournament, so is great for him.  I knew that probably he will get far in Poland, and we going to play on Monday.  But there's nothing that we can do.  I'm going to do my best to try to win the doubles, as well. 
 
Q.  If you play well in doubles, is there a possibility you might play doubles in Davis Cup with him? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  You never know, but I don't think so.  Not this year.  Not this year.  I think I have to be focused on my singles right now, because I'm playing well.  I'll try to keep all the energy I can for the singles.  The tour is very, very tough, traveling so much.  I'm 27 now, almost 28.  So I have to think of my singles career right now.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT