WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 6, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Carlos.


Q.  Carlos, it was a wonderful match.  Do you think you could have done anything different? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, maybe win it (smiling).   The rest I think I did really well.  The other matches I played here, luck was on my side.  Today maybe if I was a little bit lucky, I could have won the first set and then everything would have changed for sure.  But I had many chances in that set and I didn't take them.  So when the match is that close, you don't take advantage of your chances, you lose.  So that's what happened today. 

Q.  Emotionally, how much did that first-set tiebreaker take out of you? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, a little bit.  As I said, I had many chances and I didn't make any of them.  Was a pity because I was feeling that I was controlling the match pretty well in that point.   But I took risk and didn't make it, but I wouldn't change anything.  I would play the same way as I did.  And after that, he played even better than he was doing in the first set.  There was just one game that I didn't play that well, and he broke my serve.  That was it. 

Q.  It's the best that he's played for quite a long time.  I won't ask you whether you were surprised at that, but how did you react to the fact that his level was so much higher?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it was much higher than the match that I see him the last couple of weeks.  I also played the best match since I am here in the States, and I lost.   So I think the match was good.  Was so many good rallies and good points.  I think he's playing really well.  If he can play this level next couple of weeks, he's gonna have a chance to win the tournaments. 

Q.  And you, are you going to have a chance to win the tournaments, do you feel?

CARLOS MOYA:  I'll try (smiling).  I'll do my best.  I think today I played really well.  And, as I said, in some points, luck was not on my side or I played not that well.  But I happy the way I played.  So I think if I keep playing this level, I also have chance to win - I don't know if tournaments, but to get really far. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT