WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 5, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Carlos Moya, previous champion here.  He will take on the winner of the Agassi-Chela match tonight.  We'll open it up for questions. 


Q.  Not the kind of player to give you a lot of rhythm out there?

CARLOS MOYA:  Not really (smiling).  Yeah, you're right.   But, no, mentally you have to be ready for these kind of guys.  I was at the beginning.  Then the things went a little bit complicated and... But I've been lucky that I won this match - really lucky. 

Q.  Did you have to just grind it out again?  You said yesterday and the day before you had to grind it out.  Another day like that?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  I mean, these matches are not easy.  I played three matches here, and three against big servers.  And there is no rhythm at all.  You know, you just try to take your chances.  And that's what I been doing all these three days.   I mean, I happy the way -- not the way I'm playing, but the way that I am surviving out there in such fast conditions and against these players that are used to play on this court.  You know, all I can say is that I am just surviving and waiting for a match with more rhythm, more rallies.  I don't know what to expect the next days.

Q.  Do you mean you're not so happy with the way you played?

CARLOS MOYA:  I happy that I been winning these matches which mentally are very tough.  You have to be ready for those.  Also, confidence means a lot.  I am very confident these days.  That's why I won, not because of my good tennis. 

Q.  So basically you're looking for a guy who plays like Agassi more? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, little bit.  But now maybe if I have to hit three or four balls in a row, I don't know, maybe I don't know what to do anymore (smiling).  But, you know, I mean, at least I'm gonna play my game, which I am happy playing like this than playing all these big servers, which is very complicated for me.

Q.  But it's a positive, because if it's not your game yet you're still able to...

CARLOS MOYA:  Oh, yeah, yeah.  I have to take the good things from these three wins.  One of them is this one, that playing matches that I don't like to play at all, I won them.  So that's the best thing that happened this week. 

Q.  You seem to have a good attitude knowing that these matches are going to be tough even though the guys are in your class, as opposed to going into a match where you think you should win easily and the other guy gets up.  That's helpful to go in and say, "I'll be here for three sets"?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, the most important thing is that you have to mentally get ready for these matches, knowing that you're not gonna have fun and that you will have few chances the whole match and you have to take them.  So if you are ready for that and you accept that he's gonna make many aces and many points with his serve, and with my serve there's not gonna be rhythm at all, things are much easier even if you lose.  So it was a little bit frustrating today.  But then I could turn the things around.  And, as I said before, I been very lucky that I won this match.  He was 3-1 on breakpoint in the third.  Easy volley he missed.  Then I was able to come back.  But as I said, the most important thing is that mentally I was ready for these matches. 

Q.  There's some talk on the women's tour that there might be a boycott on the Olympic Games because the German federation isn't sending two women who qualified to play.  Could you ever see something like that happening in the men's game to support a player?  Do you think it's a good idea?  Do you have any thoughts on that at all? 

CARLOS MOYA:  The boycott is because there's no points because the WTA will give no ranking points. 

Q.  Well, kind of.  But they were going to boycott and now they're saying they might not get points.  Don't confuse the question (smiling). 

CARLOS MOYA:  Is there a reason that you're asking this question now or...? 

Q.  We're just trying to get a feel for whether the men would rally behind a particular player if there was a similar situation. 

CARLOS MOYA:  But did you hear anything about any particular player? 

Q.  No.  Well, supposedly Raemon Sluiter. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Okay.  So is easier if you ask me straight. 

Q.  Okay. 

CARLOS MOYA:  All right.  Okay.  Well, that's something that we are talking to Schuettler, he's on the board.  And, you know, we're still discussing what's gonna happen in the next days.  For sure there's gonna be a decision.  But I cannot talk about this because there is not any decision taken yet. 

Q.  What would the main concern be, that Sluiter wouldn't play, or that the ATP would say, "Okay, we don't give points"? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, the thing is that the guy that deserve to be there is not gonna be there.  So that's the main point.  Then, as I said, we still talking about that to find a fair solution for everybody. 

Q.  Carlos, you won't know who you're going to play for a couple hours, but can you say a couple words about Agassi or Chela. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, Agassi, maybe he's not playing his best tennis, but once he gets to the quarterfinals, it means that he is playing okay.  So playing in America he is going to be very motivated, for sure, and still a very dangerous player.  Chela, I have a good record against him, but he's a player that has improved a lot the last couple years.  If he beats Agassi, it means that he beat a few good guys here like Gonzalez, Nadal and now Agassi.  So I have a lot of respect for him.  But, as I said before, at least I'm going to play my game. 

Q.  Do you have quite a few people who travel here with you, friends and family?

CARLOS MOYA:  Here? 

Q.  Uh-hmm. 

CARLOS MOYA:  No, I have my coach and my chiropractor.

Q.  That's it?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yes. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT