WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 4, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Carlos picks up his 50th match win of the season for the third time.  He's done it now three years in a row.  He'll take on Wayne Arthurs in the third round.  Carlos has defeated him in their previous meeting.  Questions. 


Q.  How did the four-hour rain delay affect you?  What did you do during that time? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Just waiting.  It surprise me how fast after it stop raining the court was ready, after half an hour maybe.  But, you know, just ate a little bit, read, I was reading a book. 

Q.  Did you come over right away at 11, for an 11 o'clock match?

CARLOS MOYA:  Uh-hmm.

Q.  So you were here, I mean, even though it was raining outside?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I was eating.  And I didn't know what to do.  Reading.  But we are used to these things.  You know, we just try to relax a little bit not to get bored.  There's not much you can do.

Q.  Did you feel like it took you a while to get your game going? 

CARLOS MOYA:  A little bit.  It was a strange match.  The court is really fast.  He's dangerous player.  He serves very well.  My game was not really, really good before this match because I played Parmar first day.  I didn't play very well, but it gave me confidence because I won that match.  So today I didn't know what to expect.  I had a negative record against him and never beat him on hard court.  So to be honest, didn't know what to expect.  I just was focused on my game and try to put as many balls in as I could.  It looks like it work out.  I'm happy the way I played comparing with the first day.

Q.  How important was it for you to break him back at the end of that first game in the third set after he broke you to win the set? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Very important.  Looks like he was starting to play better and better.  And to me, holding my serve was not as easy as it was in the first set.  So, you know, it was a good chance for me to break him.  And I played a good game and a good point in that breakpoint.  Then I could hold my serve easier than in the second set.  So normally here when you break the serve, given the fast conditions, normally the set is for you.  It didn't happen in the second set.  But in the third I knew that I should win it once I broke his serve.  So I just try to concentrate a lot in my serve, and it work. 

Q.  For a top player, do you need two or three matches to really get into a tournament?

CARLOS MOYA:  A little bit, yeah.  First matches are really tricky.  There are many good players that are not seeded or maybe not very popular to the people but that for us, that we know how they play, are very tough.  And this match today is one of that kind.  I respect him a lot.  I know he can play very good tennis.  He beat me I think three times on hard court.  So I know what's -- how tough was gonna be, and I was really focused.   And now there's another kind of player like that, which is Arthurs.  He has a huge serve.  I know is gonna be very difficult to beat him. 

Q.  How difficult is it to maintain confidence knowing he's beaten you three times on hard court and knowing you weren't happy with the way you played on Monday, then with the rain delay, is it tough to maintain confidence like that?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, little bit.  As I said, I didn't know what to expect when I got to the court.  First games were, you know, he was serving aces all the time.  I was holding my serve easy.  And then after five, six games you start to, you know, to getting there and to play some long rallies and to get the rhythm.  Then I have to admit that I played better than I expected. 

Q.  How long does it take you to get ready for a match before a match? 

CARLOS MOYA:  What do you mean? 

Q.  Like, you know, when they say, "Okay, you're gonna play at one o'clock in the afternoon," do you have to focus in on that and have your food like at noon or a half hour before or two hours before?  I mean, how long does it take you to concentrate, "Now I'm going to play a match"? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it depends so much on the schedule.  I mean, today I knew I was gonna play at 11, but that doesn't happen very often that you know exactly what time you gonna play because most of the time you second or third or fourth even.  Depends on how long are the matches before yours.  So let's say today, I had breakfast at 8:15, something like that.  I'm not hungry in the morning but I had to eat.  Then I came here and I practiced at 9:30, 9:30 to 10.  Then you relax a little bit, you listen to music, you read, then I get my ankle taped.  So it depends, as I said, on the schedule. 

Q.  Do you feel like you have more appreciation for your career being that obviously you had that serious back problem and now you've obviously jumped back up to the Top 5? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  Yeah, I think now I know more what to do.  I, you know, am really hungry to win.  I'm more mature.  My mentality is much better now than it was a few years ago, like five, six years ago before I was injured. 

Q.  Do you still have that cologne?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.

Q.  Did someone ask you to sponsor that?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.

Q.  They just came up to you?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, they came up with that idea and then I was involved in that and I liked it, and then I accepted to do it, yeah.  I like to do different things, not only tennis.  You know, I think of course tennis is the most important thing in my life - well, is not the most important thing, but is really a big one.  But I like to do different things to relax and not to think only in tennis. 

Q.  Were you surprised that they asked you? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah (smiling).  Yeah, little bit. 

Q.  Where do they sell this?

CARLOS MOYA:  Where?  In many, many countries.  I don't know exactly where, but...

Q.  Do you use it?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah (smiling). 

Q.  It's just your name? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, is with my name, yeah. 

Q.  What does it smell like?

CARLOS MOYA:  Very good (laughing).  Good smell. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT