WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 2, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Carlos, please.


Q.  How did you feel today?

CARLOS MOYA:  Not very well.  But I won, which is the important thing.  And to be honest, I'm not happy the way I played, but happy that I came back.  It was not an easy match, the way it went.  I'm happy that I won, but not the way I played.


Q.  What was the problem?

CARLOS MOYA:  I don't know.  Sometimes you confident, sometimes you not that confident.  Today I felt that I could not move really well maybe because of the hot or - I don't know - hot conditions or whatever.  But I didn't feel very well.  I mean, I was okay.  But moving, it was tough for me and not concentrate.  But then I've been lucky that I came back when I was break down in the second.  You know, is not one of those days that you win and you happy.  I mean, I could play much better than I did.


Q.  What caused the turnaround?

CARLOS MOYA:  When he broke me in the second set, I was lucky that I broke him right after when he was serving again.  So if I didn't break in that moment, I don't know what would happen.  Probably I would have lost.  But he played a bad game, and then I was in the match again.  And, you know, after that I started to play better.


Q.  What's the transition for you like back to hard courts?

CARLOS MOYA:  It's okay.  I like to play in this kind of courts.  I won here two years ago, and I won couple of tournaments on hard.  I feel I can play good tennis here.  So, you know, is not easy after long time while I've been playing on clay, also on grass.  First tournament, maybe it's hard to get used to it.  But now I practiced a few more days, so there shouldn't be any problem.


Q.  What do you think of the tournament here?  I know you won and then you had kind of a disappointing year last year.

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, usually I played really bad here.  Only one year I played well, and I won the tournament.  But I feel well here.  They treat us very well.  Maybe it's too hot, very hot, but there is nothing that they can do about that.  But is a nice tournament.  Very calm, you know.  Very relaxing.  You have the golf course, and hotel is near the club.  So I think overall is a pretty good tournament.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT