WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English, please.  
 
 
Q.  You had everything under control.  Then, suddenly, about 5-4 in the third set, you looked at the clouds.  It looked like it was going to rain.  Then things kind of went wrong. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No, I don't think so. 
 
Q.  Is that due to the weather?  What happened there?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No, I think he played a good game.  The only point that maybe I didn't play that well was 15-Love.  I played a dropshot, and didn't go in. But the rest of the game, I think he played well.  He returns good.  So is normal that he can break my serve sometimes.  So he didn't do it before, but in that moment he could do it.  But I kept focused and, you know, kept fighting.  And I think mentally, again, was a tough test.  
 
Q.  After this, are you going back to Mallorca to play tennis?  I heard you are going to a tournament in Mallorca.
 
CARLOS MOYA:  If I am going?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  After here?  Yeah, is an exhibition.  
 
Q.  Will you use that as a holiday as well there in Mallorca? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, little bit.  But after that, we have clay court tournaments.  So there is not much time for vacation.  So you cannot relax and forget about tennis.  But, you know, I will take it to have fun and have a good day there.  
 
Q.  Do you feel different on the grass this year? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Than...?  
 
Q.  Do you feel different than the other years on grass?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I think so.  I think I came here more motivated and knowing what to do.  The conditions are very bad, but, still, I am fighting a lot.  And I try to be focused.  I try to be motivated.  You know, I think from difference from baseline, I can play much better than I was doing few years ago here on grass.  So that makes a big difference. 
 
Q.  Is there anything you like about grass? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Play soccer (laughing).  No, but when I am serving, I feel very comfortable 'cause I see that the other guys have trouble to return my serve.  So I can hit a lot of aces and a lot of free points.  So that's good. 
 
Q.  Do you have any thought of winning this tournament?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No (smiling).  
 
Q.  No?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Not really.  I mean, I just won two matches, so I cannot think about winning the tournament at all - not yet. 
 
Q.  So is that less pressure?  You just enjoy it?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, is one of the few tournaments of the year that I have no pressure at all.  And I try to play my game, try to have fun, and try to improve.  I have not many chances to do that in any tournament.  
 
Q.  Are you having fun? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  Well, I'm winning, so... (laughing).  Yeah, I'm having fun.  I'm doing things that I don't used to do on court.  Try to play different, in a different way than I used to do.  So, so far it's working out very well, so I'm happy. 
 
Q.  In which way different? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I'm serving and volley every -- almost every point.  Also, the other guy's coming to the net very often, so I'm working on my passing, working on my serve and volley, on my volley.  So that's much different than playing on clay or hard court.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT