WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  You looked comfortable today, much more comfortable on grass.  Do you feel better on grass now?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Then few years ago, you mean?  
 
Q.  Yeah, over the years. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I think so.  I think that I could do a lot better now than few years ago.  And, you know, I'm very happy the way I played.  I think he's a dangerous player.  And I had chances to finish the match earlier.  But, you know, like this.  I kept fighting.  And mentally was a tough match because of the darkness yesterday.  So we had to play today again.  And then I had matchpoints in the fourth set.  So was, mentally, was a test, and I think I passed it.  But I feel very well.  I served very well today.  From the baseline, I played better than I remember I was playing few years ago. 
 
Q.  Is that as hard as the surface, is just the weather conditions, that you just come to expect here at Wimbledon? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I mean, it has something to do.  Bad weather, sometimes you can get frustrated.  But once you come here, you know that this can happen.  So just try to be there and wait and not to get too frustrated.  
 
Q.  Last night it was getting quite dark.  You almost could see nothing, but they seemed to want you to play more.  Did you make a decision to come off, or they changed their mind?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I was told that you can play until 9:30.  It was 8:40, and it was dark already.  So I thought, "Okay.  Maybe they think that because I am losing now, I want to go home."  I was gonna tell the referee that the light is not very good.  So when I was gonna tell him, he said that they suspend the match.  But I guess that they were waiting for the second set to finish.  And, you know, I didn't see very well, but I guess that he didn't see very well either.  So same conditions for both.  
 
Q.  Can I ask you an Olympics question.  Tennis players have the Davis Cup where they can represent their country.  You have the Grand Slams.  Why does the Olympics then still matter and is so important to you guys?  What makes it important still? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I guess that when you are a kid, I mean, you really want to see the Olympics on the TV.  I remember very well, you know, when I was very young watching all kind of sports on TV.  So I think is a different story than any other event for us. So tennis players are lucky that we have competition almost every week.  But even like this, I am very motivated and looking forward to that.  And I really want to do well there.  I think it would be very important for me, and it would mean a lot to win a medal there.  
 
Q.  Can you imagine what it's like to be a swimmer or a runner and work four years for like -- let's say the French Open came every four years and that was your big event. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, it's tough.  I mean, for them, it must be difficult 'cause getting ready for that for many years and then maybe they get injured or they have a bad day, or so many things can happen.  And, you know, all the work for that you been doing for few years, it was for nothing. But, you know, I can talk as a tennis player.  And we are lucky that we have many important competitions almost every week going on.  
 
Q.  Any feeling on the football? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  (Smiling).  I don't talk about football anymore.  No, I mean, Spain is not there so... no motivation (laughing).  
 
Q.  When you were a youngster, what Olympic sport captivated you?  What did you enjoy watching?  Was there an athlete in one of those sports that you really thought was terrific or...? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I really liked basketball when all the NBA players started to play.  Also the athletes, the 100 meters.  You know, I think those two events were the ones I was watching.  I was watching a lot, but these two events were the ones I really liked.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT