TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 8, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  You haven't played very well here before, have you, and now you're in the final.  What do you make of all that? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I knew that it was a matter of time because I like the tournament, I feel well here, I like the courts, is a clay court tournament.  So there was no reason that I didn't do well the past years.  So I knew that this year or the next one or maybe two years I was gonna play well, so looks like this year.  I came here very confident, and I won the first two matches and I got more confidence even, and now I'm in the final.  So, I mean, it's been a great week so far for me.  I'm in a Masters Series final.  It doesn't happen every day, so I'll try to enjoy tomorrow and try to win my third title as a Masters Series. 
 
Q.  Was yesterday difficult, a match in the morning and a match in the evening?  My other question is, were you surprised that he came to the net so often? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, yeah, it has been a strange week here in Rome.  It rained almost every day, so I was lucky that the matches I had were not very long.  The match where I beat Karlovic gave me so much confidence because mentally it was tough.  I was frustrated on court.  That I could win that match gave me a lot of confidence.  In the night match I played really well.  And about what you said, that he was coming to the net, I guess that I've been playing very solid from the baseline and he needed to take risk.  He tried to go to the net.  But today I think I played very well, very solid and from forehand, backhand.  I've been lucky even.  So he had his chances, and he didn't take them.  So at this level, when you don't take the chances, you lose, as it happened to him.  
 
Q.  How would you compare your form now to 1998 when you won the French Open? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I don't know, was a long time ago but I guess I was playing well at that time (laughing). 
 
Q.  Are you playing as well now? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, probably I am playing very well now, I don't know.  I could not compare exactly how it was six years ago.  But I feel that I am more complete player now and more mature, more experience, so that comes a lot.  So I guess that I'm a little bit better now than I was '98.  But also the other players are improving so, you know...  But I guess that I'm improving every year little bit. 
 
Q.  Do you feel you have so much fan support because of your good looks or because of your game?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I don't know what to answer to that question (smiling).  You should ask them why they... 
 
Q.  If you feel this attention, even. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I guess if I was No. 60 in the world, they would not support me as much as they are doing now.  I think everything helps a little bit.  I also have a good ranking, and I have to get the support from the crowd just for that.  And then if they think I am sympatico or they support me for the way I look, it's very welcome.  As long as I get the support from the crowd, I'm happy with that.  But, first of all, I guess that it's because I'm good player, so I want to think that.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about playing Nalbandian in the final tomorrow.
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think he can adapt his game to any surface, so he's very talented and he has no weaknesses.  So I'll try to play my game, and if it doesn't work, I'll see what I can change.  But I expect a lot of rallies, and he's going to try to find my backhand, I guess, and I'm gonna try to move and try to play as solid I can with my forehand.  So serve is going to be very important because his return is great  - one of the best in the world.  So is gonna be a tough match, and I'll try to move him little bit and try to be patient. 
 
Q.  (Question asked in Italian and not translated.)
 
CARLOS MOYA:  My second half of the last year was not very good, so I guess that right now you have to play well the whole year or win a Grand Slam.  So that's something I didn't do.  But now I'm play very well since the beginning of the year.  Was a pity that I had that injury in Australia and I have to miss Australian Open; otherwise, it would have been an excellent year for me.  Still, I think so far has been great.  The good thing is that I not tired and I'm playing well, I'm happy and confident on court.   So I'll try not to have as many up and downs as I been having the last year.  I've been very, very good this year, and hopefully it's going to keep going this way in next weeks.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT