TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 7, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  (Question asked in Italian and not translated.)
 
CARLOS MOYA:  It gives you more confidence than playing practice.  It's been a great day for me.  This morning I had great trouble to beat Karlovic, but I think that gave me a lot of confidence to go on the court tonight and play well.  I think it was a perfect match.  He maybe was a little bit tired because he had long matches yesterday and today.  But, still, my game was great, and I'm very happy the way I played today.  
 
Q.  What about playing Zabaleta?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  It's gonna be different story, I guess.  I have a good record against him.  Every time I beat him was a very tight match, so is gonna be long battle, a lot of rallies, and different matches than today.  But I hope I keep playing this way, and I'll see what happens.  
 
Q.  Have you had a chance to see Costa play at all, no? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No, I didn't, but I know how he plays, and I know when he's motivated and when he's playing well and when he's with confidence, he's Top 5 player on clay, for sure. 
 
Q.  Is he someone you practice with often?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  We know each other since we're 16, 17.  I see him winning Roland Garros, so that shows how good he can be when he's playing well.  
 
Q.  What do you think about the Argentine-Spanish battle. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it's going to be tight, very difficult for all of us because we know each other, and we know how the Argentinians can play - not only on clay, but everywhere.  They're playing well, and they're fighters.  They're great players, so hopefully we will have a Spanish final.  
 
Q.  Ferrero and Coria are not at their best.  Are you ready for Roland Garros?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Ferrero and Coria..? 
 
Q.  Ferrero and Coria are not at their best.  Are you ready for Roland Garros?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, we know that when they're both playing well, they are the best players right now on clay.  But in one day, you never know what can happen.  I think if I play well, I can beat any of them.   But they are more regular than I am, they are able to play well all the year, and that's something that I cannot do.  So maybe that's the difference.  But they are the best clay court players right now.  
 
Q.  You don't think that you and Costa are playing at their level right now? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  If I think that we're playing at that level?  
 
Q.  At their level, of Ferrero and Canas (sic) when they're at their top. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I told you what the difference  - they are able to keep very high level for many weeks.  So that's something that we are not able to do, so that's the difference.  But in one match, anything can happen.  I mean, there are many players that can beat any of these two guys when they are at their best.  So I have to find the right day and be healthy, be fit, and be lucky.  So if that comes all together, I think we can beat any player.  
 
Q.  The fact that you and Costa have the French Open Championship on your resume, does that give you an advantage in this draw now, going in to tomorrow, psychologically maybe? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, when I won, was few years ago.  Costa won two years ago.  Here, players have no respect for that.  They forget about who are they playing, and they don't know if you won the French Open or you be No. 1, they don't care about that.  So they gonna go to the court very motivated and ready to be 100 percent, so that's for sure.  
 
Q.  Will you go straight to Paris, or before you play in Hamburg?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I play Hamburg then I have a week off, then French Open.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT