TMS MONTE CARLO
April 24, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  At last, you lost a tiebreak. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  And then the match.  
 
Q.  It was the key?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I think if I had won that first set, obviously, it would have been much better for me.  I think I had a lot of chances  - three breakpoints , but also a few Love-30 and a few points that I should have won. But he played a very solid game today, and, you know, he deserved to win.  
 
Q.  We are all a bit surprised to see Schuettler play so well on clay, even if he's No. 6 in the world.  What has been the reason of his progress?  How do you explain that he's becoming suddenly so good in everything? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I am not surprised.  I'm surprised that he didn't play very well at the beginning of the season, because he's a great player.  But to be honest, if you told me at the beginning of the week that I would play Schuettler in semifinal, I think I would accept that.  But he, as I said, he beat many good players this week, and he's playing very solid.  He's running a lot.  Also the way he plays on hard, I think, can adapt pretty well to clay.  So he did very well today.  He did very well the whole week.  So the way he's been playing, he's not surprised that he's in the final.  
 
Q.  He went to the net 28 times.  Were you prepared for this? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, he, I mean, he plays aggressive from the baseline and usually he tries to go to the net.  But the thing is, I think the key today is that  my return was so bad.  I mean, I'm surprised that I'm able to return Roddick's serve on hard court and I'm not able to return his serve here on clay.  So today was a disaster, my return.  I think he took advantage of that.  There's no way that I cannot break his serve at all on clay, and I have only few chances to do that.  So that shows that something is wrong, because he is not a huge server.  He has improved a lot his serve, but still, I mean, I have to be able to return his serve easier than I did today.  It didn't work out at all.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT