TMS MONTE CARLO
April 23, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  That's exactly the same score than yesterday, but not exactly the same game. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I mean, still is a win and as long as I win, I don't care about the score.  But I think I played a very solid game today, and he's a dangerous player.  He was in good form, beating some good players today.  He was dangerous.  I think I won because I played very well.  
 
Q.  What do you make of your next match against Schuettler?  What is your opinion of that? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think he's playing at his level now.  What happened at the beginning of the year was not normal.  He could not forget to play tennis suddenly, so I knew that sooner or later he was gonna start to play well.  Here he beat Guga, he beat Henman.  So he must be playing very well.  I respect him a lot.  Maybe his favorite surface is not clay, but, still, he has the game that he can play well here.  I hope my experience on clay is gonna help me to win that match, but it's gonna be very tough.  
 
Q.  You haven't lost a single tiebreak this year.  What makes you so strong in a tiebreak? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I don't know.  
 
Q.  You don't know? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  (Smiling). 
 
Q.  Is it a mental thing or what?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Probably must be a mental thing, because I won 11 this year.  This happen.  I mean, now I am lucky, I would say, because some of the tiebreaks I won, I should have lost.  But, you know, luck was on my side.  I hope this is not gonna change, but for sure it will because I not gonna win all the tiebreaks that I gonna play in the next year.  So I have to take advantage of that now, because I know that sooner or later that's gonna change.  
 
Q.  Looking to the future, to the semifinal, Davis Cup semifinal versus France, in which city do you prefer to play? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, as long as we play in Spain and on clay, doesn't matter.  So, I mean, we feel very comfortable in any city we have played so far in Spain, so that doesn't change anything.  
 
Q.  Are you looking forward to this tie?  Do you expect big support in Spain for you?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I mean, Davis Cup, for me, the biggest thing right now is would be my goal to win the Davis Cup.  So it's still a long time for that, but we know that it's gonna be very difficult.  France has a very strong team, and it doesn't matter what surface.  We have a lot of respect for them.  But we play home, and we have to take advantage of that.  So, as I said, is still long time, but, you know, is there in my mind.  
 
Q.  If you compare to last year and two years ago this tournament, would you say that you are stronger, healthier? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I mean, if I get to semifinal here, that means that I am playing well because you have to win a few good matches. So I think my level is quite similar than it was last year or two years ago, which is good because I'm getting older, you know (smiling), so it's good to see that I'm still in good shape and able to play good tennis.  
 
Q.  It's your fourth time in the semis.  Is there something you particularly like about this tournament, you feel at ease? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I feel very well here.  Usually I play better on these courts, so...  Also it helps that it is the first tournament of the year for many players on clay, and I already had few weeks of clay, so that also helps a lot.  But I love this tournament, and I have great memories.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT