NASDAQ-100 OPEN
April 1, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  You had a breakpoint right near the end and he made, I guess, a stunning shot.  Were you out of position, or was it just a brilliant shot? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think it was a brilliant shot.  I have to see it on TV, because I want to see where I was, how my volley was.  But I felt it was pretty easy volley.  I just put the ball in and he made the good shot.  But to be honest, I think we should not get the re.  I should have won the game before. 

Q.  Why didn't you? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Sometimes you lose a match, a match like this, and you don't know what to think.  I was controlling the match very well, and probably I got tight and that was it.  That game, it was one of the worst games I ever played, I think.  Double-fault and three easy forehand.  When you have these chances against Roddick and you don't make them, normally you lose.  That's what happened today. 

Q.  Did anything happen with your confidence there?  Did you begin to doubt more than you would normally doubt in that situation? 

CARLOS MOYA:  No, I mean, I just try to hit the ball as I was hitting before, and they didn't go in in that moment.  So, I mean, is very disappointing and frustrating, you know, to be out there for two hours and the most important game of the match, and do what I've done today, I mean, I have no words to describe how I feel. 

Q.  You reached the final here last year.  This tournament has been good for you.  Did you feel you would break through and win here?  Did you feel you were playing well enough to win the tournament, you thought?

CARLOS MOYA:  I was playing well.  I started (inaudible) very bad and I still won that match.  I was feeling that I was playing very well.  Today I was controlling Andy.  You get a win against a player like Andy, that gives you a lot of confidence.  Then I was going to be in a semifinal; anything can happen.  But now I don't have to think about that anymore. 

Q.  You're going home to play Davis Cup.  Is that something you look forward to? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, right now, I don't want to think about tennis that much, you know.  Today was a bad loss, you know, the way it was.  It's very painful.  Maybe tomorrow I'm gonna start to think about Davis Cup.   That's the good thing of tennis, you know  - you lose today but next week there's another tournament.  That's the good thing. 

Q.  It will be at home for you, too. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.

Q.  Which will be nice?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, is gonna be a great chance for us to get to semifinal.  I'm playing in my hometown, so I hope it's gonna be great. 

Q.  When you have two Masters Series back-to-back like Indian Wells and here, is it hard to keep the concentration going over that many matches? 

CARLOS MOYA:  No.  I mean, we should be used to it.  We used to play almost every week.  I don't think that's  -- it's not that tough, you know.  When you winning, you on a roll, you don't feel tired, you don't feel bad.  You're very motivated.  So I don't think that's a problem. 

Q.  I don't know if you were asked this, I just stepped in.  Can you talk about Andy on the court, the theatrics, he's so emotional.  Do you like that kind of match?  Does it affect you at all?

CARLOS MOYA:  No, because I didn't see him a lot at all.  I was focused on my serve, and I didn't see what he was doing.  He's like this; I'm different.  That's it. 

Q.  Who's going to play the other singles for Spain? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Who do you think is gonna play the singles (smiling)? 

Q.  Besides yourself. 

CARLOS MOYA:  You think I'm going to play? 

Q.  I hope so.  Do you think you're going to play?

CARLOS MOYA:  I don't know.  I hope (smiling).  I don't know.  I didn't talk to the captain.  But, you know, I guess Ferrero is going to play.  I don't know how he is feeling now.  But if he's 100 percent, he should play.  I don't know.  I hope I'm gonna play. 

Q.  You mentioned thinking about the semifinal.  Were you thinking about it during play?  Did you catch yourself thinking ahead? 

CARLOS MOYA:  You don't think about semifinal, but you think that you just two points away from winning a very good match.  You know, you're very happy in that moment.  And then after five minutes, I was not that happy, so...  I wasn't thinking in semifinal, but, you know, obviously 5-4, serving for the match 30-15, I'm gonna win 95 percent of those matches. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT