WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 17, 2007
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Did the blister really have an affect on you? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it was hard for me to move and to come back, after I was hitting a forehand to come back.  But the last set I think he was playing really well, and even being 100% it would have been tough for me to beat him. 

 Q.  Has he been playing as well, in your mind, as he has the last couple years? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  He's playing really well.  He's very solid again.  Not hitting many unforced errors.  He's moving you around the court very well and he's serving well.  So I think he's ready to be back in the top 10.  That's what I think. 

 Q.  Did you expect him to be playing so well today? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  Yeah, because he lost last week to Federer.  He beat couple of good guys there and also here. 
 I think Lleyton is a great player and he's playing at a high level.  He deserves to be top 10, so I expected to have a tough match today. 

 Q.  Did you feel any carryover from the match yesterday in the heat? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  A little bit.  Yeah, it was two hours twenty and a very dramatic match.  I'm not twenty years old anymore, so I felt a little bit.  Not only that one, also when I played Nalbandian first round I played over two hours. 
 Against Djokovic it was shorter match but still mentally not easy.  So after three matches like this you have to feel a little bit.  I think all came today, and then playing first match again in the morning it was pretty hot today. 
 Not as hot as yesterday, but as I said, I'm not twenty years old anymore. 

 Q.  When you took the medical time out, how much did you think about just retiring from the match at that point? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, if I'm that the close to the end I'm not thinking about retiring.  I have to explain everything, and I rather lose and still try.  I was close to be back at 4-All, but, you know, it's something that if it's not that bad that -- if I not going to break something, I rather play and you know, lose.  That's it. 

 Q.  Next year the schedule a really tight with the Olympics after Wimbledon and the US Open.  Is it a lot for a player?  You've experienced it before, but is it almost too much with the big tournaments, do you think? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  I think next year's schedule is going to be a nightmare.  I don't want to even think about that.  If you're going to play Olympics it's going to kill your body.  I have to pay attention to that and see carefully how is the schedule going to be, because it's crazy. 

 Q.  Obviously with this and Toronto being back to back do you have to go through a process of deciding which tournament is more important to go to between here and Toronto? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Not only that, but I like to play after Wimbledon the clay court events.  I like to play the Masters Series.  I would love to play the Olympics and I would love to play the US Open. 
 But it looks like it's too much.  For sure I'm not going to play all.  Also it's not sure that I'm going to play Olympic because there are only four Spaniards playing and right now I'm the fifth.  So if I'm able to play Olympics I'll see what I'm going to play, because it's too much more the body. 
 You have to pick the right ones and pay attention to the warning that your body gives you during all these years, and that's not easy. 

 Q.  Where do you think this tournament leaves you going forward now when you've got the Open coming up? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I'm in good spot, good ranking, confident.  You know, when I was done last year I said I wanted to be top 20 and not many people believed me and I'm already there. 
 But now I can go even -- I'd like to go even higher.  That could be top 10.  In the race I going to be very close to top 10 and we're right before the US Open, so it means that I had a good year so far. 
 But I want to do well in the Open.  I lose in the third round last year.  It's a tournament that I really like and I think if I play well I can get far.  So still I have to take at that step by step, match by match.  But, you know, look forward to that. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT