adidas International
January 15, 2004
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Go for Carlos, please. 


Q.  How do you find your confidence building when you string some wins together like this, to go from Chennai through to here? 

CARLOS MOYA:  How did I find it? 

Q.  Yes, how much does it help your game?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it helps.  I mean, is the most important thing, being confident.  You win matches even without  -- I mean, doesn't seem that I'm doing  -- or I'm playing great tennis, but I still winning.  So that's because of the confidence.  Now I'm playing really well.  And, you know, I was lucky in Chennai.  In the second round, I was matchpoint down.  But I won that match.  Since then I played very solid tennis.  Here, since the first day I was playing very well.  And today I think it has been my best match here so far.

Q.  Between the Davis Cup final and your first tournament back, did you have a complete break or did you keep practicing?

CARLOS MOYA:  No, you cannot have a complete break for one month because then to recover is, I mean , it takes a while.  I just had like 10 days off, and after that I start practicing again.  I had like two or three weeks' practice, and then I came here  - I mean to Chennai.

Q.  There was some concern, because Davis Cup is so late and the season starts so early, that the guys would be tired and it would be difficult to get back into it.  You, obviously, haven't felt that?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I didn't have that problem but still....   Maybe not now, but for sure in the next months I'm gonna feel it.  The tour is very tough.  One year is really long.  You know, I had just 10 days break, and then most of the players had maybe two, three weeks at least.  Then a long pre-season, maybe they practice for a month, month and a half at least.  That's something I could not do.  So I have to take care of my body, be careful, and, you know, have a good practice, good fitness, and I see how it goes. 

Q.  Any worry that that tiredness could catch up to you playing best-of-five at a Grand Slam?

CARLOS MOYA:  I don't think for Australia is gonna be a problem.  I'll see for the clay court season.  The clay court matches are longer, you have to run more, hit harder.  Maybe then I feel it.  But, hopefully I'm gonna get to the French Open very fresh, and then I will have a break.

Q.  Your opponent today has been a promising player for a couple of years now.  He keeps falling short.  What do you think he's missing? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Robredo? 

Q.  Yeah. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think he proved that he can be a great player, 'cause three years ago he was No. 30, two years ago No. 30, and last year, 20.  Now he change his coach because he really wants to be in the Top 10.  So I think besides the match today that he didn't play very well, the other matches I see him, I was real impressed.  In two months' time he really improved.  I think he improved his serve a lot, and he's playing more aggressive than he was doing before.  To be in the Top 10 today, you have to have a great weapon.  And he didn't have it yet, but now looks like his serve is much better than before, and his forehand is very good, so... We'll see at the end of the year.  I think he can be better than he was the last year. 

Q.  You said you might take a break after the French Open.  Does that mean you're already thinking about missing Wimbledon?

CARLOS MOYA:  We'll see (smiling).

Q.  What are your expectations about going to the Australian Open?  How do you feel about going to that court?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I have great memories from that tournament, from that court.  Always when I get there, I mean, is great feeling for me.  Everything started there for me in '97 so, you know, I never forget that.  Now, when I get there, you know, hopefully I'm gonna get there with two titles - at least with one.  It gives you a lot of confidence.  So is great to get there having won many matches, as I've done.  Because confidence, as I said, is very important.  You know, for many players, it will be the first tournament or maybe the second and they didn't get the rhythm yet.  Now I can say that I got the rhythm already, I won matches.  So that's something that I didn't do years before.

Q.  Are there any parallels between this year and going back to 1997? 

CARLOS MOYA:  I remember that year I played final in Sydney and then the final in Melbourne.  So I'm getting there with better record than that year.  I think everything is much different now than it was six, seven years ago.  Now, maybe they can see me as one of the contenders, you know.  In '97 nobody thought that I could get to the final.  So the situation is little bit different, but my game is there, and I think I am playing better than I was doing in '97.

Q.  Do you think it's a big disadvantage for Juan Carlos Ferrero, losing in the first round here, going to Melbourne?

CARLOS MOYA:  I think that is not good, but he played exhibition in Hong Kong, I think.  I didn't think he thought that he was gonna lose first round here.  But these things happen.  For sure is not the best way to get to a Grand Slam, just one official match and he lost it.  But he's a great champion.  For sure he's gonna win matches there. 

Q.  Can you talk about your possible quarterfinal opponents, Todd Reid or Wayne Ferreira.

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, to be honest, I don't know Reid very well, but he must be playing excellent because he beat two very good players.  He's playing home, so that's a big advantage.  He's going to be very focused, very motivated.  Ferreira, I know him very well.  He's a great player.  Looks like every year he's playing better and better.  Any of them is gonna be very dangerous.  But I just want to be focused on my game, and if I'm able to play at this level, I think I have chances to win. 

Q.  Do you want to win this tournament rather than just playing a lot of matches to get fit for Melbourne? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, every match I play, the confidence is growing and growing.  That's the most important thing.  I really had, from eight matches, I had two very tough matches and they were in Chennai.  So now I'm not tired at all.  I just have to keep play like this, and I'll see how it's gonna be the next day.  But I'm just thinking about tomorrow  - not about the next week and to be fresh for next week, because I think I'm gonna be fresh anyway.  So I just want to win, win matches, and win the tournament. 

Q.  Have you seen anything of Reid either in practice  or Davis Cup final?

CARLOS MOYA:  Not really, no.  To be honest, I didn't see anything. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT