TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 14, 2003
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Carlos, please, in English.  
 
 
Q.  How do you think you turned the match around?  He started off pretty strong and you came back.  How do you think you were different in your play?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I start to play well also.  At the beginning, I didn't feel I was playing well at all and I thought was gonna happen the same thing as yesterday.  But I been lucky that he change a little bit.  I start to play better and better.  Then after I won the first set, I think he was maybe little bit down.  He already qualified.  You know, he was relax, I guess.  I kept playing some good tennis.  So I think is a good win for me.  I didn't want to leave for here without a win at all.  
 
Q.  Does it give you a little extra confidence going into the Davis Cup? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, of course.  He's a very good player, and he's first of the group, he qualified already.  So is a good win.  Any win here is very good.  For sure, I didn't want to leave losing the three matches here.  Also for lose the match yesterday, I want to change that.  For sure is gonna give me more confidence. 
 
Q.  Both Spaniards, Ferrero and you, didn't do so well here.  I think you played great today, but total result is not that good, both didn't go to the semis.  Do you have any explanation for this?  Is this not a court which you like?  Was it just not a good week for both of you?  Before the tournament, I would expect something different?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I don't know what Ferrero; I know about myself.  I think everything could have changed if I won that first match against Roddick which I had chances in the beginning of the third set.  Then I lost.  Yesterday was a very bad match for me.  I knew that I didn't forget to play tennis in one day.  Today it had to change and is what happened.  I mean, it can happen.  Is a Masters.  Is top 10 guys, top 8 guys here, you can lose matches and win one.  This is what happen to me.  Of course I not happy, but that's something that could happen. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about your experience this week with the tournament being held here for the first time.  What are your impressions of the site?  It's obviously coming back next year, too. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I mean, being in a Masters is great for me.  I try to play my best tennis.  I know the owner, he put a lot of effort there and to try to build the best tournament as he could.  He has one more chance for next year.  He knows there are few things that need to be improved.  But, as I said, it was his first time.  He's trying to do a great job.  So for sure he's gonna listen to what the players think that can be improved.  
 
Q.  Have you offered some suggestions? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Can you share maybe some...
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No (smiling).   I want to be welcome next year if I'm here so... (Smiling).  
 
 
Q.  Carlos, were you surprised at the crowd support for you today? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I know there are many Latin people here.  Also, they're gonna see Schuettler tomorrow and they're not gonna see me any more this year.  Maybe next year they see me again, but not this year.  So it's normal that they support me.  I'm happy about that.  They been very good crowd all these days.  They been supporting me.  Obviously, not the first day 'cause I was playing Roddick.  But, still, I think they were very fair to both of us.  It's normal that he got the support from most part of the crowd. 
 
Q.  Was it difficult to switch from an indoor to outdoor?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Little bit.  But we have to switch so many times, you know, in one year, you know.  We going from outdoor to clay then back to grass, then indoor, hard, grass, clay again.  So we have to get used to this part of the tennis.  I mean, to me, has not been easy 'cause I didn't play my best tennis, but it was the same thing for everybody I guess. 
 
Q.  You go back to grass?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  So is a big change now again, so I'll try to adapt best I can, and I'm looking forward to that final.  I really feel that I  -- that we have chances to win.  You know, I gonna put a lot of effort in that.  
 
Q.  Does the fact that France won on grass down there help your confidence and belief that you can do it, too?  
 
CARLOS MOYA:  It helps.  We know that we don't have the experience they have on grass, the French team.  But if they did it, I don't consider them better than we are.  I think we have a very strong team.  They have a very strong team, also.  But I also thought once you get to the final, anything can happen.  So I believe we have our chances, and we will try to win.  
 
Q.  What are you doing in between now and then?  Are you going straight to Australia?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No, I'm gonna stay a few days here in the States.  On Wednesday I'm gonna leave to Australia.  I'm gonna get ready, I'm gonna do some fitness.  Then one week, we have one week practice there on grass.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT