TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 13, 2003
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  What happened today?  Did you worry about the wind or anything? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it didn't help at all, those conditions.  Still, there is no excuse.  I played a really bad match today.  I didn't feel comfortable at all since the beginning.  Making so many mistakes that I don't used to make.  So since the beginning I said that today was not gonna be my day. 

Q.  You advanced to the semifinals last year in Shanghai.  This year, well, it's two losses.  Can you compare each situation?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, the situation was much better, obviously, last year than this year.  But these things happen in sports, happen in tennis.  You cannot expect to have an easy match in a Masters Cup.  You not 100 percent playing well, you not gonna win.  So that's what happened today.  I felt the first day much better than today.  Today, I cannot give you a reason that why I play like this.  But these things happen. 

Q.  Some people said the conditions weren't good; they were windy, the court slants.  Any problems with those kind of things? 

CARLOS MOYA:  I mean, the conditions were not really, but I been playing in much more difficult conditions than this one and still been able to play a good match.  But when you not confident and all these things happen, maybe can make it even little bit worse.  I think is what happened today.  Everything bothered me today - the wind, the sun, the court, everything.  So, I mean, it was my fault.  That's not an excuse because, as I said, I been playing many times in much more difficult conditions than today. 

Q.  Which conditions do you like, outdoor or indoors?  Which do you prefer? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I mean, both, both conditions I've been able to play good matches.  So is obvious that when you play indoor, there's no wind, there's no sun.  All the bounces are okay.  Here, it's a little bit different.  You have to deal with all the situations.  It's more comfortable for a player to play indoor.  You can hit the ball more clean, you know.  You can feel much better the ball than when you play in such conditions. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT