TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 11, 2003
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English for Carlos, please. 
 
 
Q.  You had a terrific second set, played beautifully at that stage.  Were you thinking at that stage you could carry it on in the same way in the third?  You had chances, again, on his serve in the third. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I been really close.  To be honest, I think I had more chances than he had in that third set.  That stage of the match, I was playing much better than him.  And with his serve, he was struggling little bit.  I was holding my serve easier than he did.  I had even breakpoint.  I had love-30 again.  Then he came back.  He start to play well again, and, you know...  At that point, anything can happen.  I made some easy mistakes with my forehand that I don't used to do.  So that was it.  It was only one serve.  He broke.  It was enough for him to hold his serve, and that was it.  
 
Q.  What, as far as you're concerned, are the main threats that he poses to an opponent? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, he has a huge serve and he moves pretty well for how tall he is.  From baseline, you can play against him.  That's no problem.  But he still can play well.  But his serve makes a difference.  He can mix the game also very well.  He can go to the net.  He can stay from baseline.  He steps in on the return of the second serve, he can stay away.  So he change the  -- he's playing very smart.  
 
Q.  You were trying to change the game as well?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I was trying.  I was trying.  I think I did pretty well.  You know, I tried to play aggressive and I serve pretty well today.  Also my return was good.  But, as I said before, my forehand today, I think if I didn't make those mistakes, these mistakes that I don't used to do, I probably would have won that match. 
 
Q.  These mistakes, what were the reason for them?  Concentration?  Tiredness? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I don't think so.  I mean, he's the No. 1 player in the world and, I mean, he puts a lot of pressure on you.  So is easy, one game, maybe to lose concentration little bit.  And then you lose a serve and that's it.  That's what happened today.  I had to take a lot of risk to try to make him run a lot, and I think I did pretty well.  But one stage of the match, I had not been able to hit my forehand very well.  So, I mean, that was it.  
 
Q.  How is it dealing with his fast serve? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think I did pretty well.  My return was good today.  But, still, he gets a lot of free points with his serve.  So that's the big advantage.  Some games, he didn't have even to hit one ball from the baseline.  His serve was enough.  Also happen to me.  But that makes you play very comfortable when the other guys serve.  
 
Q.  By any chance did you watch his match on TV with Tim Henman 10 days ago? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No, no, no.  Why?  Did I play like Tim Henman (laughter)?  
 
 
Q.  The way you were returning his serve and the way Tim was, it was causing a lot of troubles.  There was a similarity.  I was wondering.  Perhaps Tim watched you play the last time you played him. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Maybe.  But the surface was much difference in Paris than it is here.  Much faster there.  I think his favorite surface is hard court, outdoor.  I would say.  But he can play well also obviously on indoor.  
 
Q.  Did the pro-American crowd and atmosphere affect you at all?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think was a pretty good crowd.  Obviously, they were supporting him.  But I felt that they were supporting me, too, and they were involved in the match.  That's something good.  As long as they are involved, the atmosphere is great and that makes you give even more.  
 
Q.  How are you finding the pace of this court? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think is pretty fair surface for everybody.  You can serve and volley and there are not many serve-volleyers here, maybe Federer.  But he can play very well here.  Also you can play from baseline.  So I think it's good for everybody. 
 
Q.  Do you think it's a little slower than most hard courts? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I don't think so.  Maybe the ball are heavier.  That makes it little bit slower.  But not the court.  The court sometimes can be very fast.  If you play Roddick, even you play on clay, to return his serve is gonna be tough.  I don't think is very slow.  
 
Q.  Can you take some confidence from that match to the two matches you have to play? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I never happy when I lose a match, but at least I know that I played a good match and I had chances to beat the No. 1 player.  So now I have to win both matches to qualify, so, you know, this is my fourth time in a Masters.  Is the first time I lose the first match.  But I played a good match today, so I think if I play like I did today, I have chances.  
 
Q.  Do you prepare any differently in this type of tournament as opposed to other tournaments?  You're playing all the top players.  Do you prepare any differently mentally? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, this is special tournament.  Not only for that, but also because even losing a match, you have a chance to win the tournament so that makes it special.  The last two weeks I been resting for a while because I had some problems with my shoulder.  I took it easy.  Then I had some good practice the last week.  You know, obviously, this is different tournament, special.  Probably the most important of the year, where you want to do really well is this one and the Grand Slams.  Is special feeling being here.  You try not to get nervous and to play very well.  Is the last tournament of the year - well, not the last, then I have Davis Cup.  But almost the last one.  So I have to put a lot of effort here and a lot of concentration, and then I have my holidays and week off.  So now I have to get ready and to be 100 percent.  
 
Q.  There are grass courts here.  Is there any chance that you might use them to practice? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Maybe tomorrow (smiling).  
 
Q.  Seriously, would you use them before going to Australia?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I don't think so.  After I finish here, I'll take few days off and get ready for the grass.  But not here, I don't think here.  
 
Q.  You are left-handed but you play right-handed.  Did you ever play left-handed?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No.  Well, when I was a kid, I broke my right arm, so I tried to play my left.  But I wasn't very good (smiling). 
 
Q.  It's interesting.  Rafael Nadal is the opposite.  He's right-handed, plays left-handed.  I was wondering if that was a Mallorcan trait?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, maybe.  But I don't know any other one doing that.  Maybe we are the only two.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT