TMS - MADRID
October 16, 2003
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in Spanish for Carlos, please.  
 
 
Q.  You had your chance of breaking Feliciano's serve twice during the third set, but your chances went away?  How do you feel? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Fine (smiling).  It's not the best thing that has happened to me, to lose a match like this.  I had chances in the third set I didn't take advantage of.  At this level, if you don't take advantage of things, opportunities, you get what happened today.  
 
Q.  Is it one of those matches that hurts? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Every loss hurts.  But this one especially because of how it went.  I've said it before, I had my chances.  I didn't play well.  My arm was a bit tight.  I don't know if it was because of altitude, because of game, maybe a mixture of all.  I had chances.  A victory would have brought me closer to the Masters.  But still my chances are there.  Okay, yeah, the loss hurts, especially because I'm in Spain.  
 
Q.  What about the doubtful points of the match? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  His style of serving is very impressive.  Besides, there's altitude.  Those points, yeah, they bothered me.  I don't usually think the line judges are wrong, but today I think they judged always against me.  I was a bit desperate.  I was lucky a few balls were on the umpire's side and he saw them, but some of them weren't.  Finally when we played points over, it was me the one who won them.  But at this level, the fact that judges misjudge one point, it's very important, because we're risking a match.  It's very frustrating.  
 
Q.  Do you think line judges should have video to avoid these types of errors?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yes.  Line judges are not professionals.  It's a very high speed.  It's normal they make mistakes.  This is a very important sport.  They should have professionals on it because it can change the direction of a tournament and of everything.  They should try to be as precise as possible, with video or anything.  Clay has the advantage that marks are there, and they can see them.  But this surface does not have that advantage.  I guess it's difficult to change the line judge's decision, but that should be changed.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT