TMS - MADRID
October 15, 2003
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in Spanish for Carlos. 


Q.  Ferrero saved two match points.  You only saved one.  It was a very good day for both of you. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yes, we've won, both of us.  I'm not happy with my play, but because of my victory.   I would have liked to have played better.  I wasn't comfortable at any time.  I took advantage of one of his errors and beat him.  I hope it was only lapses of the first round. 

Q.  Do you think there's much difference between here and Vienna? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yes.  The court is a lot faster.  I don't like to play with this altitude, because it's difficult to control the ball.  Today was proof of it.  Maybe I was nervous because I wanted to play well.  I was lucky to win, honestly. 

Q.  Regarding Novak and points for Paris last year? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, this year the situation is different.  Last year I had to win no matter what happened.  This year I think I still have chances to get on the list.  Last year I had to win; this year I can qualify even if I don't win.  But, anyway, I need to give my best results against any opponents I have. 

Q.  Did you feel the crowd was with you?  When he had the match point, were you looking to the crowd? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I looked for someone to help me and save the match.  Actually, I found Christ (laughter).  Seriously, I think it was a very frustrating moment.  I was not feeling comfortable at all.  I was losing points I don't usually lose.  My forehand was not working.  I saw points were not going my way.  Today nothing worked as it should.  The crowd was there, and that's something that helps, of course.  The fact we're playing in Spain, I think it's not by chance that I finally won.  The stadium was full. 

Q.  Feliciano against Philippoussis, what do you think?

CARLOS MOYA:  He plays really well, and this is one of his favorite surfaces.  He's able to play with this altitude.  He has proven that his level is able to defeat anyone.  I think I can do it well, too.  A victory tomorrow would be very important to me. 

Q.  The end of the match was played at a high level.  You hit aces.  You're very dangerous, too, with your serve. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  The serve is crucial.  It's true that during the two last matches in Vienna, I was not comfortable with my serve.  Serving indoors, with the altitude, it's one of the most important weapons of a tennis player, something that helps you win your games easily, at least start dominating with the forehand.  So tomorrow his first serve and mine will be very important. 

Q.  Did you learn about the result of Feliciano and Alex?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yes.

Q.  What is your opinion of the doubles team?

CARLOS MOYA:  I think they could be a good team, despite not having played for a long time together.  Both of them have a good serve.  It's very difficult to break their serve actually.  They played against one of the best teams in the world, and it's difficult to break their serve.  Grass is different, but I'm sure they'll play well on that, too.  They were unlucky with the result. 

Q.  You were a friend of Fernando Vicente.  Is he really affected by the subject of betting? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, as a person, he's not usually affected by things.  But this is something different.  This has really affected him.  He only played a match.  That subject was not his fault.  Suspicions were raised towards Kafelnikov, not towards him.  He played the match.  Kafelnikov maybe had not a good day.  He won.  I know him quite well.  He wouldn't do that in sports, never, ever. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT