WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 11, 2003
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  Obviously, it's a bit disappointing for you  - being the defending champion, not being able to get anything going here early?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, is a bad loss.  I play very bad today.  You know, lately I lost few first-round matches and I not full of confident.  But I have to keep working for the US Open.  And now is a low point in my year, but, you know, the year is very long and you have up and down.  Now I little bit down, but still have to work really hard to get ready for US Open. 
 
Q.  It seemed like his style of play was unorthodox, two-hand forehand, he didn't really do anything special.  It more or less kept him in play, and it seemed like you killed yourself today, like you said?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I think so.  I mean, he's very tricky.  He has this kind of forehand slice, and he covers the net very well.  At the end, I have chances to break back for 5-all, but today he played better than me.  I mean, is nothing I can say about that.  
 
Q.  It looked as if you were out of gas down 5-1.  You ended on your serve with the game winner.  It seemed like the momentum came, but it was just out of gas late?  You made a nice run at it.
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  But, I mean, I was not confident.  He was playing well, and he knew what to do.  As you said, he didn't do anything special, but it was enough to beat me.So that's it.  And I have no confident right now.  I gonna practice hard to get ready.  
 
Q.  I guess you really lost the match in that third set where you went down 5-1.  You won one out of nine points?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, probably.  Yeah, after 1-all in the third, then he won four straight games very quick.  I mean, when you have no confident, you don't know exactly what to do.  I was trying to put the ball in and, I mean, I couldn't.  So he was smart playing today, and, you know, is nothing I can say.  
 
Q.  Since winning the tournament, I think this is three in a row you've gone out first round.  What's causing the confidence thing, do you think, after coming off a victory like that?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, right now, every week has been different.  I mean, the week right after I won the tournament, I didn't have time to get used to the court, and still I lost a very tight match. Then Montreal was the first hard court tournament.  I didn't feel the ball very well.  But now I got some practice, and there is no excuse.  The match I lost today, I played very poor today.  I mean, I have no excuse today, and I have no reason that I play that bad.  
 
Q.  It seemed late when you made that run, though, the flashes of Carlos Moya were there.  Did you just think it in your head, "If I had a couple more games here left, I could have turned this thing around"? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I had the chances still.  At 5-4, 15-40 I played a good ball, he made unbelievable volley, and then he went for the second serve.  It was his game, then anything could happen. But, still, as I said, I wasn't confident.  I mean, I just try to play and try to put the ball in and... But I could not do even that. So for some time I haven't been able to do anything, so I just try to keep going and, you know, just to put the ball in. 
 
Q.  Is it even more disappointing when you know the crowd today were behind you, chanting your name?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, it's very disappointing.  I mean, being the defending champion and having the support from the crowd, I mean, a country which is not mine, I mean, it's really bad to lose that match. But, I mean, there are 25 tournaments in a year, and sometimes you don't play well; sometimes you do.  So now we start to play  -- not to play that well.  But I wish that I am gonna be ready for The Open.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT