TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 8, 2003
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Did you get a bit unlucky at the end of the tiebreak with those four errors to lose it, maybe you could have reached for a third set? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, the thing is I don't think I lost the match there.  But, you know, I didn't play comfortable at all today.  I don't know what's wrong with me when I play here in Rome because I like the conditions, I like the tournament, I really like everything here.  For whatever reason, I haven't been able to play my best.  This is my eighth year and I just got to the quarters once.  So I think is not normal.  Today, same thing happened as last years.  When I was feeling I was playing really well, suddenly I got to the match and I don't think I played well at all.  I think Kafelnikov had to do something with it but, still, I think I have to be able to play well and  today I didn't.  You know, I don't think I lost the match there, but the whole match I didn't play well.  
 
Q.  Before today Kafelnikov had a worse record than you.  He played nine times here and never got to the quarters.  That's very unusual for two French Open champions to play so badly here. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, it's true.  Until today I was playing really well.  In both matches I played here I felt well.  You know, there wasn't any problem.  But same happened last year.  I was playing perfect, then suddenly I played a bad match against Haas.  And today, same thing.  So I don't know what's wrong with me here.  Hopefully, I'm gonna come back next year and try to play better.  
 
Q.  Kafelnikov seemed to play better than ever during that match.  Since when did you see him play as well?  He was running better than usual. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, that's true.  I think he played very good match.  I didn't see him playing lately, but I think he played the perfect match.  He wasn't missing much from baseline.  I think the conditions were good for him, was heavy condition.  But, still, he managed to play pretty well.  He's a player, I mean, his game doesn't disturb me much, you know.  The last few times I think I beat him, even indoor.  Today, when supposedly I'm playing my best and he's not playing that well, he beat me.  So I think he played a very good match today and he didn't let me play my game.  
 
Q.  So what's next for you now?  Is it Hamburg or...? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, Hamburg, and that's a tournament that I haven't played well either, but just one semifinal.  And the other, I think I have a negative record there, I lost more matches than I won.  So it's time to change it, and hopefully this year I'm gonna play well again there.  But these two tournaments, Rome and Hamburg, I don't understand why I haven't been able to play well.  It must be a reason, but I didn't find it yet.  So hopefully I'm gonna play well there.  
 
Q.  Maybe you want to keep it for Paris?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I don't know (smiling). 
 
Q.  Cincinnati?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, Cincinnati was one of the tournaments that I didn't play well either.  I think the best I did before last year was second round.  So maybe is gonna happen the same thing with Hamburg. 
 
Q.  What is your ranking?  Best is Monte-Carlo, Paris, or what? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I like Monte-Carlo a lot, Barcelona, French Open.  These three I think are the best for me.  Buenos Aires, I didn't lose a match yet there.  But I don't know, is mysterious for me.  
 
Q.  You seemed to be missing a lot of backhands today.  Was there something wrong?  I think we saw you take a fall at the beginning of the first set.  Did you hurt yourself in some way?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think I missed backhands, forehands, serves, so I don't think it was only my backhand.  My forehand today wasn't hurt him at all and, you know, is my best shot and I wasn't able to hurt him.  So I don't think I have to blame it on my backhand.  My forehand didn't help me at all today.  Also, my serve helped me the first four games, first service games.  Then since I lost my first game with my serve, after that I haven't been able to serve well at all.  So I cannot say the only reason was my backhand; it wouldn't be fair.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT