TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2003
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Carlos, please. 
 
 
Q.  Do you think you were too much upset with your serve, because you made too many mistakes in the first part of the match?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  If I was upset with my serve?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think the serve wasn't the key of the match.  I mean, the whole first set I didn't lose a serve, so I wouldn't say that's the key.  I think the key was that game at 5-all.  I had five breakpoints, I think, and I wasn't able even to put the ball in.  So then we got to the tiebreak and few mistakes I made.  Then, you know, he won that set.  And was little bit unlucky in the beginning of the second set.  First game I had breakpoint on his serve, then I have in two service games 40-15, and he broke.  So, I mean, he played very solid today, and I think the conditions didn't help me at all.  Today was one of the heaviest conditions in Monte-Carlo that I ever played.  I needed some speed, some help from the weather maybe, and a little bit sunny would have been perfect for me.  But still I think he played a great match.  He deserved to win today.  
 
Q.  Is this the best he ever played against you? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I think so.  
 
Q.  Yeah?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think so, yeah.  I played him just two times before this one.  One was like four, five years ago.  He was 17 years old.  In Buenos Aires, I mean, the conditions were much better for me.  It was sunny, fast court  - I mean, clay court, but fast.  Today, all the balls were coming back.  I was hitting very hard, and the balls were coming very deep.  So I have to give a lot of credit because he played really well today.  
 
Q.  What is most impressive about his game, do you think? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I mean, he's very quick and he knows where to put the ball.  You know, he has very good hands.  All his balls are going very deep.  I try to make him run like crazy, and he was running really fast.  He force me to take more risk than I used to take, and to hit more balls than I used to hit, you know.  But I think he's a great player and I cannot tell you just one thing that impressed me from him because he's very complete.  For sure he's gonna be in a better position.  
 
Q.  You think he can beat Ferrero tomorrow? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it's gonna be tough match.  Ferrero is playing very well and he's very confident because right now he was supposed to be home, you know.  He saved against Gaudio 5-3 down, a set and 5-3.  Then against Mantilla, 7-5 in the third.  So when you win those matches, they give you a lot of confidence.  And you can see, I mean, quarters and semi, he won very easy, playing very well.  I don't know who is gonna win, but is gonna be tough match, a lot of rallies.  I don't know if the weather is like today.  I think with the sunny weather and faster conditions, I think Ferrero would be my favorite.  But is a day like today, I mean, Coria can take advantage of it.  
 
Q.  When you see Guillermo running all the balls down like he did, do you sometimes think that he has been suspended for drugs, or do you forget completely about it?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  You cannot ask me that, I mean... 
 
Q.  Do you think about it or not? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Not at all.  I mean, I don't know him very well, but what I know, I mean, he's a good guy and I don't think he was guilty at all.  If he was, he paid already for what he did.  But I don't think he did anything.  I never thought about this, not at all.  
 
Q.  You have never thought about this about him or about anybody? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  What do you mean?  You mean anyone in particular?  
 
Q.  Sometimes do you have suspicions, suspects?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  You have?  
 
Q.  I'm just asking you. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I'm asking you.  You have suspicions or not?  
 
Q.  Is not interesting for them (referring to the journalists).
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, they want to know maybe.  You want to know what he thinks (asking the journalists)?  
 
Q.  Say to us. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I mean, not any in particular. 
 
Q.  Carlos, are you going to play Wimbledon this year? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I don't know.  
 
Q.  Meaning?  That means?  You don't know if you want to, or you don't know if you should?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I don't know what I'm gonna do.  It's still two months away, maybe three.  So you don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow even so.  
 
Q.  Would you rather not?  Would you rather just pass the grass season?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I will see.  I cannot tell you anything now.  Probably I play, but I cannot tell you 100 percent.  
 
Q.  Do you think you have chances? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Of winning?  To win it?  
 
Q.  To play well. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  To play well, yeah.  I think I have chances to play well.  To win it is something different (smiling).  
 
Q.  What about the French? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think I'll play (laughter).  
 
Q.  But winning it this year? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I don't know.  I am playing well.  I will say I'm one of the contenders, you know, one of the players to watch maybe, one of the favorites.  But, I mean, I'm playing really well.  Even losing today, I'm happy the way I hit the ball.  He just played very well.  Sometimes you win; sometimes you lose.  So I just want to get there healthy and fit, winning a few matches before I get there.  Once I get there, you don't know what can happen.  First rounds are very dangerous.  So if I can get to the fourth round, then more chances usually.  But I have to take it step by step.  
 
Q.  How much are you playing between now and then? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I play Barcelona, Rome, Hamburg, Dusseldorf. 
 
Q.  A lot.
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yep.  
 
Q.  Everything.
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Not everything.  There's a week between Barcelona and Rome.  
 
Q.  What did you say to him, or he came to say something to you at the end of the match? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  He wanted my T-shirt (smiling).  
 
Q.  Like you did, apparently, in Buenos Aires?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, he asked me for my T-shirt in Buenos Aires; he asked me today.  He's gonna have a good collection of Nike stuff from Moya (smiling).  It never happened before. 
 
Q.  No?  Only in soccer?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Soccer, yeah.  Still, he beat me, you know.  So I don't know, but was funny.  
 
Q.  He wants the one without the sleeves? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  If I play in Barcelona, for sure he will ask me again.  So he will have a whole collection, you know, so...  I will give him anyway, if he ask me.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT