TMS MONTE CARLO
April 15, 2003
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  I just have one question for you.  When the weather is like that, when it's such windy weather, how do you concentrate?  On what do you concentrate the most, what is the most important thing?

CARLOS MOYA:  Just to put the ball in (smiling).  That's all what you can do.  But today conditions were very tough for both of us.  Was supposed to be a nice match to watch for the people, and I think they didn't enjoy much.  But, you know, we did our best, and I just  -- I was just focused to put the ball in and waiting for his mistake. 

Q.  Is it the worst conditions you've played, with the wind?

CARLOS MOYA:  I think so, because the wind was changing, you know, was going everywhere.  Was really tough to play today. 

Q.  So it says a lot about your concentration...

CARLOS MOYA:  Well...

Q.  ...that you are able to play like that?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think so.  I mean, I think I didn't play well, but I did what I had to do.  Mentally, was tough match to play.  And, you know, I could win in straight sets so, you know, I'm very pleased, even playing in such conditions, to be able to win. 

Q.  We read that you're a sort of mentor to Nadal, is that right?

CARLOS MOYA:  Uh-hmm.

Q.  What sort of things do you do with him and for him? 

CARLOS MOYA:  I mean, when I am in Mallorca, I practice with him.  Whenever he has something to ask, I try to give him my advice.  That's all. 

Q.  How good do you think he is at the moment? 

CARLOS MOYA:  I think he's very good, and you never know what can happen because he's still very young.  But he has a lot of potential.  I think in two years maximum he's going to be Top 10 player.  That's what I think. 

Q.  Can you see any similarities with Juan Carlos at that age?

CARLOS MOYA:  With who? 

Q.  With Nadal and Juan Carlos.

CARLOS MOYA:  Juan Carlos Ferrero? 

Q.  Yeah. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I didn't know Ferrero when he was 16, but he started to win satellites and all this stuff when he was 18, so I think there's no comparison at that age.

Q.  This one is probably better younger?

CARLOS MOYA:  I think he's the best 16-years-old player that I have ever seen.  Because from the Spanish players, Albert Costa was very good, but I think was still playing satellites when he was 16 years old.  Corretja, I think the same.  So, I mean, he's very mature and he has many things to improve, but I think he's great player. 

Q.  How do you compare him with Gasquet, for example?  Do you think he's got more to offer than Gasquet, who is a similar age?

CARLOS MOYA:  I think right now Gasquet is like  -- he plays like a veteran, like he's been on tour for a long time and he knows what he's doing.  I think Nadal plays more like his age.  He still has many things to improve.  But to be honest, I think he has more potential than Gasquet.  But they both are gonna  -- they will have a bright future, and they can have a rivalry like Agassi and Sampras had maybe. 

Q.  I want to ask you about your match today.  First six games, six service breaks.  It's like women's tennis. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Looks like (smiling).

Q.  What are you thinking in your mind?  You're down a break; you break back.  You're down a break; break back.  What are you thinking now to maybe do differently to change?

CARLOS MOYA:  I knew something was going to change because you cannot play a whole match with breaking serve and he was breaking mine, had to change. But I tried to put the first serve in and, you know, play. 

Q.  Did you think about changing your tactics with your serve then?  Because in losing serve, you came up with a lot of big serves when you were down, but you still lost serve.  I'm thinking, did you think about doing something different other than just putting the serve in? 

CARLOS MOYA:  It was not a question of serving, it was question of, you know, putting the ball in after the ball was coming, you know.  And before, on the first games, I was trying to hit the ball hard and hit to the corners, and didn't work.  So I tried to put the ball in and, you know, be patient and waiting for his mistake. 

Q.  You didn't wear your sleeveless shirt today.  Was there any reason for that?

CARLOS MOYA:  Not this week (smiling).  I mean, these conditions I think are not the best for the sleeveless.  But next week in Barcelona I guess.

Q.  Do you think young players in Mallorca have an advantage because of you, maybe they are more keen on tennis?

CARLOS MOYA:  Maybe, maybe the young guys playing in Mallorca, maybe they wanted to play because they saw me on TV and they saw that I am doing well and, you know, if I am able to do well, they think that they can do it also.  So in terms of that, I think there's an advantage, I think, for Mallorca, and sometimes I am there. 

Q.  The most famous sports man from Mallorca has been you, or in other sports there were other people from Mallorca very worldwide-known?

CARLOS MOYA:  I don't know.

Q.  Maybe football, I don't know?

CARLOS MOYA:  There's Nadal also, you know, soccer player.  Yeah, we have like the world champion diving, but I don't know. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT