NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2003
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  On Sunday, Carlos will attempt to win his second ATP title of the year and he's the first Spaniard to reach the final here in Miami since Sergi Bruguera back in 1997.  Questions for Carlos. 
 
 
Q.  You were awfully strong in your last few games there.  What do you think the difference was down the stretch? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think I played a very solid match and I just made 12 unforced errors.  Playing very solid, so it was great for me to break his serve right in the first game of the match, and then I been able to hold my serve during the whole match.  I think he didn't play comfortable at all and I think my serve was hurting him a lot, the kick serve, I think he wasn't comfortable with it.  And the second set was, I mean, has been very good.  You know, I'm very pleased the way I been playing.  
 
Q.  After all the tough matches you've had this week, a few tiebreakers, a three-setter, how comforting is it for you to get through a semifinal win in two fairly quick sets?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  It's great.  I said the other day when I beat Ginepri, even without playing a great match, it gives you a lot of confidence.  I think I been right with it.  Today, I felt like these are the kind of matches I like.  He's a great player.  I don't think I have anything to lose.  It's 50/50.  I really enjoy it out there.  It was a great atmosphere.  So, you know, I think I looking forward to that match for Sunday, you know.  I think is gonna be great for me, great experience, and to be in final here in Miami.  So, hopefully, I gonna play the same level I played today.  
 
Q.  Where will you be tomorrow when Andre and Albert are playing? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Home (smiling).  Watching the match on TV. 
 
Q.  You will watch it?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, yeah, I think so.  It will be fun to watch. 
 
Q.  Rooting for what? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I don't know.  I mean, Costa is playing well, and he really impressed me today  - I mean yesterday, against Federer.  Today, he's been able to finish that match.  He played great.  He has improved a lot on this surface.  Agassi, you know, is one of the best players ever.  To play a final against him would be an honor for me, and beat him would be great.  But I don't have any preference at all.  I think is gonna be tough match tomorrow.  Whoever wins, I think I'll be ready for it. 
 
Q.  7-6, 6-7, 7-6 is what you're hoping for?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  That would be great for me.  Right now, I find out the final will be best-of-three sets.  I think would have been better for me to be best-of-five. 
 
Q.  What do you think has been the biggest reason for your return to form, for you getting back into the Top 10?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I been working really hard.  When you have such a bad injury, it takes a while to put everything together again and to be the same player that I was before.  So, you know, I was  -- I start to play tournaments again in 2000.  So, every year, I been improving, you know, slowly, taking step by step.  But now I feeling like everything came together, you know, and I'm healthy and I'm very motivated.  I said the other day that 26 years old is a great age for tennis.  It's one of the best.  You know, you can see Agassi, which is 32 or 33; El Aynaoui, he's also playing his best tennis ever.  So I'm still young, too.  I think I have many things to improve.  I'm really hungry to be up there again.  I'll try, I'll do my best, and it will be a great story if I'm back at the No. 1.  But it's gonna be really difficult. 
 
Q.  Do you think this is the best you've been playing since before the injury? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I don't know.  Cincinnati, I played very well also.  I don't know if I am playing better now than last year, but what I think, to be honest, is that I'm better player now than I was four years ago or five years ago when I was at the top.  To be at the top now, it means you have improved few things because the players today are better than they were five years ago, and five years ago they were better than ten years ago.  You have to keep improving little bit to be at the same level, and that's what I been doing.  I been working really hard to be there again.  
 
Q.  Have you signed a long-term contract on the sleeveless shirts at this point?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  (Laughing) They are great.  
 
Q.  I guess. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I didn't lose a match yet.  So was my first week here, so who knows?  We'll see what's gonna happen.  
 
Q.  Good advertisement for them.
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think they were lucky to, you know  -- they had many players to  -- I mean, many players in Nike that are the Top 10, you know.  I been lucky to be the one that they picked.  Also to be in final, I mean, it's a great coincidence.  I am feeling well and I'm feeling well wearing it.  I don't know what's gonna be my next tournament wearing the sleeveless, but I hope it's gonna be soon. 
 
Q.  How do you think it will go down at Wimbledon?  Will they allow it there, do you think?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  They were talking about it.  I don't know.  I don't really know what's gonna happen.  But, you know, if they want me to play with it, I will.  
 
Q.  Works for you?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  That would be revolutionary there.
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, it will be, really (smiling).  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT