NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 26, 2003
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Carlos, please. 


Q.  Would you just give us a few words about how hard a match that was to win tonight?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it was very tough.  I think I did even more complicated, you know, because I should have won that first set and maybe things would have change, you know.  I was 4-1, double-break up, 99 percent of chances of winning that set, you know, 4-1, with double break, I should win.  But, you know, he's a great player.  I been lucky to break his serve right at the beginning of the second set.  And then I won that second set, then, you know, anything can happen when you get to a third set.  He didn't break my serve at all.  I wasn't able to break his serve either but, you know, he's a tough player.  More important points, I play a little bit better than him.

Q.  You lost that first set on a tiebreak that you led 5-2.  How difficult is it to lift yourself from losing a tiebreak that way and get stuck into the second set?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it's not easy.  When you play quarterfinals in a Masters Series with a guy you supposed to beat and you see that you have so many chances to win that first set and you don't make it, it's kind of tough to keep fighting, but that's what I did.  I don't think I played my best match here, but, you know, I kept fighting.  I gave it all.  You know, finally, it paid off.  But is not easy after losing that first set to be there again and fighting and realizing that you have to win two more sets when you had the chance to win that first. 

Q.  It didn't seem like you were really able to figure out his weakness.  Have you ever  -- even after it's over, does he have one? 

CARLOS MOYA:  I don't think he has any weakness at all.  He has a good serve.  He's very complete player, you know.  He's not  -- okay, I say I gonna hit to his backhand, you know, he can hit winners from forehand, backhand, serving, returning.  But I knew that he has not that experience, you know.  In the important moments, like it happened, you know, he kind of didn't play as well as he did the games before.  So I don't think he has any weakness on his game at all.

Q.  Like when he missed that backhand volley?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I think that one was very important.  It was 3-1 with chances of going 4-1.  But he's still young.  I don't think he played many quarterfinals in Masters Series in his career, but he's gonna be good player.

Q.  What did it take out of you physically, three sets tonight? 

CARLOS MOYA:  I mean, I been feeling all right.  I be tired now, but the match was tough, but we didn't have many rallies.  The thing it was  -- I'm tired now because it was very intense match, you know, very close and exciting.  So now I am okay.  I think he was 100 percent also, so I don't think that's gonna be a problem for the semifinal. 

Q.  You see Albert doing well in the other half of the draw.  Do you fancy an all-Spanish final?

CARLOS MOYA:  You never know.  Now I did my job and he has to do his job.  So he's gonna have a tough match tomorrow against Federer.  He's one of the hottest guys on tour; playing on his favorite surface.  But Albert is able to play very good tennis and for sure he's gonna  -- Federer is going to have a tough match, he wants to beat him.

Q.  You might have Todd Martin or Paradorn.  Any preference there? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, both have been playing really good tennis.  Martin looks like he's never getting old, you know, he's still there always, you know.  He knows how to play the game.  Maybe he's not at his best in terms of fitness, but he's one of the guys who knows how to play tennis, one of the few guys who knows how to play tennis.  Paradorn is very exciting to watch.  I think he is one of the hottest guys on tour also.  I don't know.  I don't know what's gonna happen, but I don't have any preference at all.

Q.  When you say Todd is one of the few guys who knows how to play tennis, that's a pretty good compliment.  The mental game is so there, is that what you mean? 

CARLOS MOYA:  He knows where the ball has to go, you know.  He knows when he has to go to the net, when he has to chip and charge.  Those kind of things that you feel he knows the game.

Q.  You've seen Ginepri, Fish, Roddick, put them all together, what do you have?  A pretty good group of young players?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I think so, is what I said two days ago.  I think they gonna be very good.  But is difficult to be American, because you will be always compared with Sampras, Agassi, Courier, all these guys that, you know, it's tough.  But I think they're gonna be great players, and they are already great players.  As a group, they will achieve many things in tennis.

Q.  You gonna wear that sleeveless shirt all the way through? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think I am lucky to play with this, when I play with this shirt, I haven't lost yet.  So as long as it gives me luck, I'm gonna keep wearing them. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT