PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 11, 2003
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Carlos.  
 
 
Q.  Did you enjoy beating Michael Chang for his last time here?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I didn't enjoy that, but I enjoy the way I play today.  I think it was a great match for me.  Even playing at 10:00 in the morning, I think I played pretty well.  I don't like to play that early.  But I think, you know, I play very solid game  - hitting winners, serving well, returning well.  So I think everything worked out pretty well today. 
 
Q.  You must have a pretty good feeling for this tournament because of the past and the fact it's nice and warm?  The ambiance is there. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  I still have very good memories from Indian Wells because four years ago is where I got to No.  1, so every time I come here is special for me.  The conditions were good.  Is not too fast, the court.  I think I can play my game pretty well.  
 
Q.  You're going to play against Clement next round.  You met him a couple of times already?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  We played each other a few times, yeah.  I don't know how many, like four or five.  He beat me once.  The last one in the US Open, I think.  So is going to be a tough match because he has a type of game that I don't like to play against.  But, you know, even the times when I beat him, I felt like, you know, I wasn't playing that comfortable.  But he's been injured for a while.  I don't know if he's playing his best or not, but I'll have to be very focused and try to win that match.  
 
Q.  When you're preparing for a game day, when you know you're going to be playing a match, do you have a routine?  Are there certain things you do that day versus days when you don't have a tournament match?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Can you repeat again, please?  
 
Q.  When you wake up in the morning the day you have a match in a tournament, do you do things differently?  Do you have the same breakfast every day when you play a match?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, depends on what time I day.  Let's see, today I had to wake up at 7.  I had to have breakfast.  Last night I went to bed at 11.  Usually I go really late.  So usually when I don't have matches, I go straight to the practice court.  I mean, I have a banana or something, then I eat after practice.  Today I had the breakfast.  Things are different.  Mentally you go to bed different way than when you don't have a match.  You have your mind set on the match the next day.  I mean, I slept perfect.  It's always that kind of pressure, that you know you have a match that day.  Is a different feeling than when you don't have that match. 
 
Q.  I know it's several matches away, but what do you think of having the men's final at 9:30 in the morning?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think it's crazy.  There is not any other sport I know that they are playing so early, where you need to be a hundred percent fit.  I mean, the body, doesn't matter you wake up three hours earlier, it's not ready at that time to be ready to fight hundred percent.  I don't think that's right.  But I guess television is going.  I mean, that's what they want.  We have to accept that.  But I don't think it's the best thing to do. 
 
Q.  What's the earliest you ever played a final, like a big match? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think the year I played final here.  I don't remember what time was that, but maybe 11.  I don't know.  11 is the earliest I play in a final, I think.  But I would like to have that feeling to play 9:30. 
 
Q.  Is it worse to play early in the morning or 11:00 starts at Bercy in the night?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  That's true.  You have to accept that, get ready for anything.  Even if I have to play 9:30, I'll try to.  I don't know, maybe I don't go to sleep, go direct to the final.  
 
Q.  Spain is known for its fun-loving culture, dinner at midnight.  Do you think this is very unfair to the Spaniards?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No, I'm not saying that.  I mean, it's tough for the Spanish because our habits are different.  Like last night, I had dinner at 10:00.  I don't know what time you guys had dinner last night, but for sure earlier than that.  So is totally different.  If I had dinner at 6:30, 7:00 in the afternoon, I go to bed at 9:00, be ready to play at 9:30, give everything.  But that's what I've been doing for my whole life, so it's not easy to change for one week. 
 
Q.  Do you think television has too much power in making the schedule?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think so. 
 
Q.  Do you think that players should try to do something with that?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, television, I mean, if we get the money, prize money, contract, all these other things, are because of television.  So we have to be thankful to television.  This doesn't happen too often, to play final at 9:30, or to change the schedule for the TV.  It's something that we have to accept because it is the way it is.  You know, if it happens the whole year, every single week, okay, maybe you have to see what we're going to do.  But it just happens here, so it's not a big deal. 
 
Q.  What do you remember of the US Open match against Clement?  What kind of memories do you have of it?  You had a good summer, won in Cincinnati. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No, it was the year before.  It was two years ago.  I don't have very good memories.  I remember I won the first set tiebreaker, then he won 6-4, 6-4, 6-Love.  I mean, it was not a good way to finish that match.  You know, every match I think is different.  Till that time, he never beat me before.  He beat me that time.  Now we see what's going to happen.  As I said before, he's not the kind of guy that I like to play.  But now I'm playing well, I'll see what I can do. 
 
Q.  You won the first set today 6-Love.  Would you really have wanted to beat Michael 6-0, 6-0, considering he's a rather sentimental figure here?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I don't know.  For some moments it came to my mind, you know, it could happen, because I was 6-Love, 1-Love, Love-30, playing really well.  Besides the first few games, he had chances to win a game.  If I won that game, he was 2-Love serving, maybe 3-Love.  When you see nothing but Love, the pressure is for him, you know, he has to win that game.  But he's a great fighter.  I knew it was going to be difficult that to happen.  I mean, if I could, I would have done it because I think he would have done the same thing. 
 
Q.  Have you ever beaten a player Love and Love?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No. 
 
Q.  Even in the Juniors?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I don't remember that, but I don't think so. 
 
Q.  What are your feelings on Wayne Ferreira, the group he's forming to try to make some changes on the tour? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I don't really know what's going on there.  When I find out what are they asking, what are they saying and all these things  -- but now I have not information enough to respond to that question.  As soon as I get all the information, I will be able to answer the question.  
 
Q.  Are you generally satisfied with the amount of input that players have into tour decisions?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, as I said, that's something is not comfortable to talk about.  Probably I made more money than I ever thought in my whole life.  I can't complain about that, to be honest.  But it's something that we have to talk about.  I mean, you have to earn what you generate.  If the percentage that you get is really low, then you have to talk about something.  We have to see that.  As I said before, I made more money than I ever thought. 
 
Q.  After the match, you held back and let Michael leave, and he stopped and waved to the crowd.  That was a nice gesture.  We're not supposed to say, but that was a gentlemanly thing to do and showed great sportsmanship. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Thank you.  Well, I think he deserved it.  I didn't know what to do.  I knew that he was going to be  -- he had to be alone there to get this ovation.  I didn't know if I had to leave before him or wait for him.  I didn't know really what to do.  I think he deserved that ovation.  You know, I think he's been great for sport.  He has given always 200% of what he had.  What he achieved is really unbelievable.  So I think he deserve this ovation and even more. 
 
Q.  What you did was perfect. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Thanks.  I tried.  
 
Q.  Do you remember watching him win the French?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Not really.  It was a long time ago, even for me.  I was 12 years old.  But I think was a big surprise for everybody, not maybe the final, but before the tournament began, for sure nobody thought that he could win the tournament.  What he did was unbelievable.  I don't know the reason that he didn't win more Grand Slams.  He was able to do it at 17, why not do it at 25, 28, when you are at your best?  Probably he didn't have Sampras in the same period, he could have won more Grand Slams, he be No.  1.  
 
Q.  Sampras almost retired.  Do you think he's going to come back?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think his last chance is next week, Miami.  I don't think he's going to go to Europe. 
 
Q.  He's not playing Miami. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  He's not playing Miami?  
 
Q.  No. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I think it would be smart, very smart.  I'm not the right person to say what he has to do.  The way he finish his career, the way he did it, it is the best he can do.  I don't think he's going to go to tournament and win it again because is tough when you have the rhythm.  He's very talented, he's very good.  He's been the best ever.  But still the tour is very tough today.  Since the first round, you have tough matches.  Doesn't matter how good you are, he's going to have tough matches.  I think it would be great for him if he does it now.  He did it in a good way.  Being in the top, that's something difficult that not many people can do.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT