AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 13, 2003
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  Can I just ask, how is your shoulder -- not shoulder, I'm sorry.  Elbow, wasn't it?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, today's been better than the last days.  I did treatment yesterday, and it looks like it work out pretty well.  Still, I wasn't able to serve 100 percent but the way I been serving was I didn't feel any pain so that's good.  It's also good to win in straight sets, because I have to force my elbow a lot.  So I have a treatment tomorrow again and hopefully it's gonna be fine for Wednesday. 

Q.  What exactly treatment-wise have you been having? 

CARLOS MOYA:  I don't really know.  The doctors here, they are taking care of it.  I don't know how they're called, but I don't know  - you should ask them.  But is kind of... I don't know.  They bring something here (indicating his elbow).  It looks like it's working out very well.

Q.  You were a little slow starting today.

CARLOS MOYA:  A little.  Yeah, you know, the last days I wasn't able to serve.  And when I was doing that, it was painful.  So, you know, I was a bit worried about how I was going to work today.  He start pretty well also.  But after I was -- I broke him back, I felt like I was in control of the match.  It was a tough match to play for me.  It wasn't any rhythm at all and was windy, and he's lefty.  So was not  -- they were not easy conditions, but I think I play pretty well.  As I said before, it's good to start with a straight-sets victory.

Q.  Did you play him before?

CARLOS MOYA:  No, never.

Q.  He's big, isn't he?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, very big.  I think he's the tallest guy that I ever played. 

Q.  Very different  - I mean, there's been a lot of talk here about if you go the whole way, then Lleyton Hewitt may be a final  - couldn't get much different, sort of size and play. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Obviously, every player I play now is going to be different than the opponent I had today.  I cannot think about being in final and playing against Lleyton.  I mean, is still like four more matches to go.  Still the first matches are very tough for me.  Once I can get through the first few matches , maybe it can be dangerous , I think about maybe go all the way, but not now.  I just won a match.  It's just the second tournament of the year.  Is not easy for me to play well at the beginning of the year.  Now I have to get the rhythm, be 100 percent, and if I have 100 percent, maybe I have chances to play good tournament. 

Q.  Are your injuries bad enough that you would not be able to play five matches? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, not right now, but few days ago I didn't know for sure what was gonna happen.  I got very good treatment.  But I didn't know how I was gonna  -- I mean, if I could play five sets today, you know?  Because the longest practice I had was an hour, and serving 50 percent, not more than that.  I didn't know how  -- what was gonna happen today.  But if it keeps going this way, I think I'm able to play five sets.  I don't know what's gonna happen, but I will just try to play my best and the next match for sure is going to be tougher than today.  I will see what happens. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT