WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 15, 2007
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Did you watch Novak last week at all? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  No. 

 Q.  You've played him before and been successful. 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Is there something about his game that suits you? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I know how he plays.  We played each other a couple times and I really follow him because I like his style, his kind of game.  I wouldn't say his game suits me.  I guess every match is a different story, and today I think I played very well.  I serve well and hit very hard with my forehand. 
 You know, I felt very confident on the court and I knew I was going to have a good chance to beat him given the conditions coming from winning in Montreal, 7-6 in the third beating Federer.  He's just twenty years old, and I've been in his situation so I know what you think.  I know how you feel. 
 I knew it was going to be tough for him.  I was coming from beating Nalbandian so I'm more in the rhythm of the competition here in Cincinnati.  Everything is different for him.  I think all these conditions made that this victory was possible for me. 

 Q.  When you're at his level and just getting into the top 5 and playing late in the tournaments and having to go to a new tournament quickly, does it take time to get used that physically? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  Not only physical but mentally.  I think he's still thinking about the great week he had in Montreal beating the top three players in the world.  So I knew the beginning was going to be hard for him to get into the match.  I knew I was going to have my chances there and I was going to have to take them.  That's what I did. 
 I was very prepared for this match and everything went the way I thought.  Also I had to play very well.  I played one of the best matches of the year.  You know, it's a very good win for me, but I have to think about my next opponent now. 

 Q.  You mentioned it a little bit, but how much do you think that it helped you that he had a first round bye and you had a match coming into today's match? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  It helps.  Obviously I'd rather have a bye the first round than having to having to play Nalbandian the first round.  But if you get to win that first round you're in a better position.  I have always said that the first round is always dangerous, and even more for a top player, so I try to take advantage of that. 
 I been in his situation and now I'm in another situation that if you win that first rounds you have a little bit advantage from your point. 

 Q.  When you were coming up, did you feel that same way that he does now about going deep in the tournaments then that first round of the next tournament is really, really tough.  Did you struggle with that as well? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  I think everybody -- for everybody it's difficult to win a tournament and go to the next one.  Also the way he won the tournament.  He beat Roddick, Federer, Nadal.  It's normal.  It's a Masters Series and it's normal that at the beginning when he comes here takes a while for him to get into the match. 
 But I knew that would happen and I knew it was very normal that this can happen to him, so I try to take advantage of that. 

 Q.  He has risen through the rankings so quickly.  Besides today when he did not seem to play very well, how close is he to No. 1 and No. 2? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, on a given day he can beat any of these guys like that.  He prove that last week.  It's keeping the level for so many weeks.  He's always at least in the semifinal, so I think before next year he could be ready to try to become No. 1. 
 This year he's behind for too many points already, but in one year I think he could be able to be there with them.  After Rafa and Roger I think he's the next player for sure. 

 Q.  Is he a reasonable favorite or maybe a second or third favorite for the US Open? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, for sure. 

 Q.  Did you say this was the best match you played this year? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  No, but one of the good ones. 

 Q.  Did you play at the same level when you won this tournament over here? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, maybe.  Maybe.  I remember that year I was serving really well and hitting forehand very well, so it's the same way I feeling this week so far.  I beat two of the best players in the world.  Nalbandian is 20 something in the ranking but he's a lot better than his ranking shows. 
 Novak a No. 3 in the world coming from winning Montreal.  So my tennis right now is very good.  I'll just try to play at the same level the next matches and who knows what can happen.  But I'm feeling well and happy and enjoying on court, and that's good. 

 Q.  How much does it change the way that players look at who can possibly win this tournament when a day like today happens when Nadal and Djokovic both go out? 
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I didn't get to talk to the other guys, but in my case, I just think about my next match.  That's it.  I don't even know who I'm playing if I win tomorrow, so please don't tell me.  But I just want to go step by step.  Tomorrow is going much more difficult.  Much than today, and I expect to have a very tough battle against Del Potro. 
 If I win I'll see who I'm playing, but to me doesn't matter that Djokovic lost and Nadal lost.  Just want to go step by step.  That's it.  Probably Federer is happy about what happened today, so he's the only one who can really think about these things happen today.  Not the other players, I guess.  We have to go match by match. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT