WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 9, 2002
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Carlos, please.  


Q.  Your coach says that the most difficult is for you now because you're very close to the top, but the last step is the most difficult.  Do you feel that?  Can you explain why? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it's a difficult one, but so far I been playing very well.  To get to the next step is, as you said, is difficult, but I'm very confident and I'm playing some good tennis.  I have good victories lately.  The summer so far has been very good for me.  So I'm getting closer, but I'll try to be there.  You want to win the next match and just to enjoy on court  - that's what I'm doing now  - and feel confident, feel happy.  You know, now it looks like all the things came, you know.  And when I have this mix together, I can be dangerous player.  So now it looks like I am playing very well. 

Q.  Can you tell how much you are happy to find this again, the joy and your level.

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it's very important, but the most important thing is when you're on court.  And when you win many matches, you start enjoying.  This is what I am doing now  - I'm enjoying.  It looks like everything is working out for me.  I'm even lucky on court.  So it's a good feeling.  I try to keep going. 

Q.  He had beaten you four times in five matches.  Did you have a different strategy today?  How was it so easy today? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, the first set was tough.  I didn't feel that I was controlling the match.  But after I broke him back in the first set when he was serving for the set, I broke his serve, suddenly I was much more confident.  And my forehand was working very well.  When I took the first set, I think it was much easier for me.  I was serving pretty well.  The key was my forehand, I think; it was very powerful today.  I didn't see that he was  -- that he had the chance to come back.  You know, I just tried to push hard, and it was a very good match for me. 

Q.  You winning today means even if you lose tomorrow you'll be in the Top 10 now in the Champions Race.  Regardless of what happens tomorrow and maybe Sunday, is that a nice thing? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it's good to be back in the Top 10.  I was there two weeks ago and in one week I lost four spots.  But the important thing is to be Top 10 at the end of the year.  To me, I mean, is not good to set a goal, you know.  Because maybe if your goal is to be No. 10 and you finish 11, maybe it can seem that you didn't get to your goal.  But I been enjoying a lot this year.  I been playing very well.  As long as I'm enjoying, I am happy.  But is good to be Top 10 again.  It will be good to be Top 10 in the entry system, so I have to see when is gonna happen. 

Q.  Ferrero won the first set.  We don't know for sure yet, but if you play him, I think he's 5-1 against you.  I think he's won five in a row.  Why do you struggle against him?  What does he do well when he plays you?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I think when he plays me, he plays really well (smiling). 

Q.  Is that's easy. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  But I was 1-4 today against Schuettler.  Ferrero beat me 1-5, so I think this week is a good week to beat him.  It's gonna be different conditions.  It's gonna be on hard.  You know, I just try to play my game and try to use my forehand and, you know, just I'll see what can I do. 

Q.  If you play him, can you talk about your relationship with him  - you're countrymen, how much you guys hang out together, how much you talk. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Our relationship is very good.  We been going to dinner once here.  And, you know, he's a good friend of mine.  We just warm up this morning together.  So is like with all the other Spanish. 

Q.  Will you warm up again tomorrow?

CARLOS MOYA:  I don't think so (laughter).  Is gonna be different story tomorrow.  But after the match, we be friends again. 

Q.  And last time you played him, you were not physically feeling good. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I was not 100%.  He wasn't 100% either I think - I heard.  But I know about myself, I had some problems with the abductors.  I could not play 100%.  But he's very dangerous.  Even if I am 100%, it will be tough for me to beat him. 

Q.  Have you kind of followed closely what he's done as he's become one of the elite players?  Did you see that several years ago? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I realized even when I beat him the first time  - he was maybe 19 years old  - I realized how tough he was gonna be and how good a player he could be if he improve few small things, and he did.  He's very complete player, very solid.  He has good forehand, backhand.  His serve is not one of the best, but you cannot attack him.  He puts a lot of spin, he has a good kick.  He hits the ball so hard.  I just try to do my best.  But since the beginning, I realize that he was  -- he could become a really good player. 

Q.  If you play him, is it hard to play friends or people from your country? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, it's not easy.  It's not easy.  Maybe puts you a little bit more pressure.  But it's a semifinal here in a big event and, you know, you forget about everything when you get to the court.  You just want to kill the guy (smiling).  It doesn't matter if he's your best friend or he's another player, but you just try to beat him. 

Q.  What could continuing this run on hardcourts mean for you in the long run?  Is this doing a lot for your confidence about your all-around game?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, it's doing a lot because this year my hardcourt game was not very good.  My clay court was excellent.  So I was thinking that maybe since I was back from my injury I wasn't able to play well on hard for whatever reason.  Now, I can see that is all a matter of confidence.   My preparation for these two tournaments wasn't the best that you can have.  I played the three clay court tournaments.  And, you know, what I learned from this things is that the best preparation is to win matches, no matter what surface you play on.  The best thing is to be feel well here  - mentally (indicating his head).  I remember last year I played LA and then I played Toronto and Cincinnati.  I played first round, second and second.  I went to LA to prepare the hardcourt season very well, and looks like it didn't work out very well.  But this year I decided to play the clay court tournaments and then come here and try to do my best, and looks like it was a good option.  So best thing, the best preparation, is to win matches - no matter what surface it is. 

Q.  If for some reason Wayne Arthurs comes back to win, I don't believe you've played him.  Any thoughts on that kind of a style, facing a big server?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it would be different, totally different match than against Ferrero.  I mean, I think I would have to be very focused on the return.  Because once you able to return his serve, he struggles.  But that's not an easy job, to return his serve.  I think he's one of the best servers today, I mean, in the game.  You know, just try to be focus on the return and try not to be broken. 

Q.  Did you watch his match yesterday? 

CARLOS MOYA:  No, I was watching now.  I was watching a little bit now.  When Ferrero was putting the ball in, it was much easier for Ferrero.  But, I mean, the first serve is very good.  You know, it's not much you can say about Arthurs.  I mean, his serves are huge.  His serve is huge.  You just have to try to put the ball in and see what happens. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT