TENNIS MASTERS SERIES - ROMA
May 9, 2002
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Carlos, yesterday Ferrero complained about the treatment that Spanish players are getting at this tournament.  In this case, particularly having to play on one of the outer courts after the rain.  How do you feel you've been treated here?  And do you agree with him?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, he's Spanish, he's a tennis player.  So I agree with him, and I support him until the end.  I think he's the last champion.  He deserves to play on a better court.  But if you have a look at the draw, I saw Safin played on the outside court and some good players.  It was not  the -- I think was not a good  -- I mean, the tournament didn't, I think  -- I don't know what to say.  But I support Ferrero.  And I think he should have played on center court or at least Pallacorda.  There were some other matches which I think were not deserve to be on the Pallacorda or center court even.  And Ferrero playing there is a shock for me. 

Q.  He mentioned that he thought when you were World No. 1 that you weren't treated with as much respect as other No. 1s, that it was a problem with the Spanish players.

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I don't know.  You should ask to -- I don't know, not me.  I don't know.  I don't know what they think about the Spanish players, if they like us or not.  This is not my business.  But I know that when I got No. 1 and I got to Miami, I played first round, I was coming from Indian Wells, and I played on Grandstand Court.  So all the local players were playing on center court.  I don't know what to say.  I mean, for ten days that I was No. 1, I think I deserved to play at least the first match on center court.  They didn't give me that chance.  Second round I played on center court.  But I don't know if is a problem against Spanish or not.  But, you know, I just want to be focus now on this tournament and on my tennis and ask Ferrero about it.  It is still tennis court, you know.  Whether you play Court 10 or not, you just have to be focus.  And that's what I try to do now. 

Q.  You must be pretty pleased with your form at the moment?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I'm very happy the way I've been playing lately  - and not only here, but the last month.  And this my best year in Rome here so far.  And for I don't know what reasons, I never played really well here.  And I felt that this is a very good tournament, very good atmosphere, and the conditions were perfect for me.  So I didn't know the reason that I wasn't playing well here.  But this year, looks like I am playing very well.  I am very confident right now.  I am going to have a tough match tomorrow.  But if I play this way, even if I lose, I'll be happy because I'm playing very well. 

Q.  Does it make much difference, the conditions?  Yesterday it was very heavy and cool.  Today it's hot and fast.  Is there one that you prefer? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I feel very comfortable with the conditions yesterday, and the heavy conditions I think are good for me.  And today at the beginning was a little bit not easy to play because there were many shadows on the court.  And it's not easy to play with the sun and the shadows.  But I know is still a clay court, so I feel very confident.  Doesn't matter if it rains or if it's cloudy or sunny, you know.  If I'm playing well, doesn't matter, the weather. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT