TENNIS MASTERS SERIES - ROMA
May 8, 2002
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  You will be seeded at the French, so you don't have to play Lleyton in the first round.
 
CARLOS MOYA:  That's not a good draw, to play Hewitt in the first round in a Grand Slam.  Still, I hope I'll be seeded there.  Otherwise, that means that I'm not in the first 32 players in the world.  
 
Q.  There are 32 seeds there. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, that wouldn't be good for me.  So hopefully I'm going to be seeded, I'm going to get really far.  
 
Q.  Were you insulted by his tantrums on court, his bad behavior on court? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  No, I think that he didn't behave bad.  You know, he was down, you know, and there was that close ball that the umpire gave me that point.  And could be, I mean, my point or to play a let.  The umpire decided to give me the point.  That was a game I was 3-1, and he reacted I don't think that bad.  Maybe  -- I don't know what he told him, because the warning was for something he said to the umpire.  But, you know, it didn't bother me at all.  I was very focused.  And I don't know, I don't think he deserved to get that penalty point, but these things happen in tennis.  And only the umpire and him went on there.  I didn't hear anything, so I don't know what he said.  
 
Q.  Were you surprised to be awarded the point at the time?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Not surprised.  Usually they don't give you those points.  But I knew that he had no chance to put the ball back, so it's up to the umpire.  He thinks that he has no chance, he gives me a point.  But usually they don't give that point.  But I think it has to be up to the umpire usually.  And, you know, I think he  -- for me, he made a good call (smiling).  
 
Q.  Did you understand that he got the penalty point?  Did you know? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I didn't hear the penalty point, so...  He went to the other side.  I didn't know what was going on, so...  But he told  -- the umpire told me that he got the penalty point and that was it.  But I didn't hear it.  
 
Q.  What was the reason for the first one?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I don't know.  In that point  --. 
 
Q.  Both, the one in the first and the penalty point afterwards. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  I guess  --  yeah, I don't know.  I was surprised to get that 15-love without playing the point even.  
 
Q.  What do you put down as the reason for you winning the first five games?  Things were one-sided in your favor early on. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, he had  -- with his serve he had game points.  Then with my serve he had break points.  So it could easily be 3-2 for me, and it was 5-love.  Sometimes it happen the opposite  - I have many chances and I am down.  Today he had chances, and I was up 5-0.  He start to play better after that, and I kind of relax a little bit.  But I was lucky to hold that serve in the 5-3, because otherwise you never know what can happen.  I mean, it's Lleyton.  
 
Q.  How do you rate the level of your game now compared to the year you won the French? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, that was a long time ago, so I don't remember.  But... 
 
Q.  Four years. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  All I can say is that I am healthy now.  I am very confident and 100%.  You know, I think my tennis is there, is at the same place where it was.  Now I need the confidence to win a big tournament.  And I think confidence is very important in tennis.  So when I won the French Open, a month before I won Monte-Carlo.  This year I played a final in Monte-Carlo, so maybe I play a final in Paris.  But my tennis, I feel that it's there.  Now I have to adapt some other things, and hopefully I'm gonna be ready for the French Open.  
 
Q.  Next match you meet Enqvist.  Do you think it could be an easy match for you? 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Enqvist won?  
 
Q.  Enqvist. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, not that good.  I play like five or six times against him and I beat him just once.  
 
Q.  But never on clay?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  He beat me once on clay, I think.  So trouble...  But last time I play him on clay, I beat him.  So hopefully this time is gonna be the same.   But I'll try to play my best here in Rome.  For some reason, I never play well here.  I just got to the third round my best year, and now I am in third round.  So hopefully I'm going to be in quarters.  But, you know, I have to go step by step and, you know, just play my best and be 100%.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT