TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2002
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Carlos, can you say how close you are to your 1998 form, the way you've played this week, in particular today? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, so far this tournament I've been playing very well.  And I know how far I am from getting that form, but the feelings out there, I mean, I have been playing very well.  And I'm very happy the way I won these matches.  I had very tough opponents all these days.  You know, you're not playing well, you don't beat all of them.  So that means that I am playing well.  I cannot tell you if I am back where I was, but, you know, I feel that my tennis is there. 

Q.  Two years ago in Mallorca it was also a tiebreaker in the third.  Did you play as many dropshots?  Can you compare this match? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I don't remember that match, but I remember that I won the first set and I also had chances in the third.  And he ended up winning in the tiebreak.  So today was almost the same story but with a different ending, you know.  I won today, which I think I' have been very close to lose, too.  But I think I played better in the important moments, and, you know...  But the match was pretty similar to two years ago or three years ago in Mallorca.


Q.  Do you use dropshots against him very often?

CARLOS MOYA:  Not against him, but today I felt like the dropshots were working well, and that's what I did.  I think I've won many points from the dropshots, and I lost some of them.  But, you know, I think is a good tactic sometimes. 

Q.  Did you expect to be playing Tim Henman in the semifinals on clay?

CARLOS MOYA:  Not really (smiling).  Not really.  But he deserve it.  He's been playing great tennis, and, you know, he's gonna be very tough opponent for me.


Q.  How do you see the match?  You're playing against somebody who's not a classic clay courter.  It will be different from playing against Safin.

CARLOS MOYA:  It was different, yeah, of course.  I will have to be focused on my return.  I think it will be very important because he's trying to get to the net a lot.  And I play once against him on clay, and I beat him 7-6 in the third so that shows how difficult it's gonna be, the match, for me.  And I respect him a lot.  Doesn't matter what surface we play, even if is clay, I think he's a very tough player to beat.

Q.  Did you actually get some treatment after the match?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.

Q.  Are you okay? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, that's why I've been late here.

Q.  What's the problem? 

CARLOS MOYA:  The adductor. 

THE MODERATOR:  Groin. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Groin. 

THE MODERATOR:  Stretching. 


Q.  Strain? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  That's what happened.  It was in the match against Corretja yesterday.  And before the match, I got the treatment today and it work very well because during the match it didn't hurt at all.  But afterwards when I was not playing, I felt the pain again  and that's why I got the treatment.  But now I'm okay.

Q.  Do you think it might affect you tomorrow? 

CARLOS MOYA:  I don't think so because I cannot be worse than I was last night, so...  And today, I mean, you didn't know, you wouldn't feel that I was having any problem at all because I been moving very well.  And I didn't have any problem during the match.  I'll try to get the same treatment tomorrow before the match and I'll see if it works. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT