TMS MONTE CARLO
April 16, 2002
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.


Q.  What about your level today regarding last week in Estoril? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, the conditions are much different.  I played a few good matches last week.  I was very happy the way it went.  It was a pity that I lost in semifinal, that I still had chance against Nalbandian who afterwards was the winner of the tournament.  And today, as I said, the conditions were much different, you know.  I am very pleased with the match I played today.  I think my level was great.  I had some great points.  And, you know, I think I played better the  -- he had many break points and those moments, those important moments I think I played better than him.  I was feeling that, you know, I had chances to win and I took them, which is not easy against Hewitt. 

Q.  You already played against Lleyton.  What do you think about the way he played today? 

CARLOS MOYA:  The other few times I played him was on hardcourt.  I knew the match, he was gonna be different today.  Still I think he's a great player on any kind of surface.  He beat Guga in Brazil in Davis Cup.  He was quarterfinalist last year in French Open.  So that shows that he's a very complete player.   But the difference between the hardcourt and the clay, I was feeling like I could dominate more the point, you know.  I was in more control the point here than on hardcourt, and I think that was the big difference.  But still he's a great competitor and a very tough player to beat. 

Q.  You looked quite confident today.  Would you say that's generally true at the moment, that you feel pretty good about your game? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, because today I was up the whole match, you know, beside the first game that he broke my serve.  When you are ahead, everything is easier, you know.  Mentally, it's much better.  You can play much  -- I mean, you can do whatever you want that looks like everything works out, you know.  But now, I mean, I am very confident.  Every year when I start the clay court season it looks like I am playing better.  And right now I am playing very well.   The first week I was semifinal in Estoril.  A month or something ago I was a winner in Acapulco.  The only two tournaments on clay this year were pretty good for me.   Here I have very good memories, four years ago when I was winner.  And I also play semifinal, quarters here.  So I feel very well here.  I am very confident.  So I hope that the next days are going to be good for me, and I'll try to keep the same level. 

Q.  Do you find it harder to reach the top today than a couple of years ago when you were there?  I mean, with all the players, all the clay court specialists, is it more difficult today?  Is there more? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, for me, it's much more difficult than before.  But I'm trying hard, and what I think is that I'm still young.  I still have chancces to be where I was before.  And in that time, it didn't  -- I mean, I didn't feel it that difficult to be there because I was there, you know.  I thought that was normal to be there.  Now that I see how difficult it is, I realize how - I don't know - how difficult it is, how tough it is, you know.  But I'm gonna give 100 percent, and I think my game is there.  But there's something missing.  And, you know, I'll try to improve and to keep the level for a few tournaments, a few more tournaments than the last years. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT