US OPEN
August 31, 2001
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Carlos.  
 
 
Q.  When you play someone your friends with, do you put that out of your head?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  It's always tough.  Once you get to the court, you forget about that, just try to play your best.  You give hundred percent, doesn't matter who is your opponent.  But before the match and maybe the first five, ten minutes, it's not easy to play a guy like Vicente for me.  
 
Q.  Looks like you're playing with confidence, with control.  Do you feel good about your game?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I'm feeling very well.  Had some trouble at the beginning.  He was playing very well.  He served big.  He had a great forehand.  But I was doing the right things.  Maybe some mistakes.  But I was playing in the right way.  I know that sooner or later the thing was going to change.  When his first set was not that good  -- I mean, the middle of second set, I start to take more control.  I think was the key of the match.  His first set wasn't working that well.  I think I'm doing the right things.  I got to the net very often.  Played some good volleys.  I served well.  I returned well today.  I think I played a very complete match.  
 
Q.  I think that's one of the underrated parts of your game; that you can volley, come in.  Is that something that coming into the tournament you wanted to do more of?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Well, that's what I've been working lately, improve my volley game, try to be more aggressive.  Not only with my forehand but also with my backhand.  Today I think it work very well.  Also the return.  I try to adapt more my game to the fast courts.  I think so far I've been doing well.  I'll try to improve for the next matches.  I try to play better and better.  
 
Q.  You look like you're strong.  What will be the key for you to continue?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Just to play like this.  To me is enough.  But I play like this, I'll be happy because I'm doing the right things.  If I lose playing like this, that means my opponent has been better than me that day.  That's it.  Just play like this will be enough to be happy.  
 
Q.  You're facing Arnaud Clement.  What do you think about that?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  He's going to be difficult match.  I have always played well against him.  I beat him the four times we played.  But here is a different story.  Lately he's been playing better than he played after Australia.  He's winning some matches again.  He has a very difficult game to play against.  He's very fast, hit the ball very flat, returns well.  I just going to try to do my best and use the same tactics that I've been using always when I played against him. 
 
Q.  What is the key of your matches when you won before?
 
CARLOS MOYA:  Against him?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
CARLOS MOYA:  It's been on clay so I think is different story.  I remember I played in Miami this year against him.  I beat him 6-4 in the third or 6-3.  Wasn't a good match for none of us.  I won the first set, then he was leading 1-Love, 2-Love, then something change.  I think he likes when you play aggressive.  He's very fast.  He always puts the ball in.  I'll try to play with some spin.  I think it bothers him more than when you play flat.  That's what I'm trying to do.  Don't tell him, please (laughter).  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT