WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2001
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  You've beaten him four times before.  Do you feel grass was a big point against you today? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it's obvious that he has a lot of chance to beat me here on grass.  I just try to play my game, enjoy on court.  For sometimes I did it, no?  But then he start serving very well.  You know, he's been too good for me.  He put a lot of pressure with his serve because I knew that if I got broken, the set was over.  That's what happen.  At the beginning of every set, he broke my serve and it was it.  There was nothing I could do when I was returning.

Q.  Did you feel it much harder to return his serve on grass than other times you've played him, the speed?

CARLOS MOYA:  Sure.  I played him many times before, and he never did 35 aces like today.  For sure, the grass helped him.  But still, he's a great player, and he can beat me anywhere.  It's not an excuse that we played on grass and that he beat me here, but it helped him a lot, for sure.

Q.  Did you feel more comfortable on grass this year?

CARLOS MOYA:  Every year coming here I feel more comfortable.  At some point I thought I was able to win this match because I had a breakpoint at the end of the second set, and I didn't take advantage of it.  Right after that, he broke me, then he started serving very well.  I didn't know what was going to happen if I did that break.  But this is tennis, it happens.  If you don't take advantage of your chances, you lose it.

Q.  Are you going to keep coming back on grass?

CARLOS MOYA:  Sure.  I'll be here.  Since I was able to, I've been coming here every year.  I think to be a great player, you have to at least try to play in any surface and to do well.  I'm feeling like every year I'm doing better and better.  Maybe in ten years, I'll do better than second round.  I'll keep coming here. 

Q.  Mentally, when do you think you lost the match?

CARLOS MOYA:  When do I think?  I think the key has been that he broke me at the beginning of every set.  Is easy to serve that well when you are a break up.  I think he doesn't serve that well when the match is closer, is tight.  When it's 5-All or 6-All, he doesn't serve that well.  But I think that was the key.  The second, third and fourth set, he broke me right at the beginning.  So that was the key, I think. 

Q.  There's been some mention of Wimbledon possibly switching from grass and following the US Open and Australian Open to maybe something similar to grass, but not grass.  Would you like to see that or would you like to see maybe The Championships possibly pushed back by another week so you have more chance to practise between the clay and grass?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I didn't hear that, so is the first time I hear about that.  You said not to play Wimbledon on grass, what?  What surface, do you know? 

Q.  They're suggesting maybe either clay or a kind of carpet possibly. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Wimbledon on clay? 

Q.  Possibly. 

CARLOS MOYA:  You must be kidding.  I don't think so.  Where do you hear that? 

Q.  It's just kind of what people have been talking about. 

CARLOS MOYA:  I can bet you whatever you want, Wimbledon is not going to be played on clay - never, ever (laughter).

Q.  Would you like to see it played on clay?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, it would be great, but I don't think so.  You know, I know I probably never going to win here, but is a different tournament.  It's been always played on grass, so we keep playing on grass.  I don't think they're going to switch to clay, for sure.

Q.  Would you like to see an extra week in which to practise?

CARLOS MOYA:  To me is enough with two weeks.

Q.  Two weeks is enough?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah. 

Q.  Goran has been struggling a lot with injuries, but he's obviously still a dangerous player on grass.  How far do you think he can go in this tournament?

CARLOS MOYA:  If he's able to serve like this, he can get really far. 

Q.  Like?

CARLOS MOYA:  Like, I don't know.  It depends on how he plays, is up to him.  The other day I said that he has a bad day, he can lose to any player on the tour; if he has a good day, he can beat any of them.  If he's able to keep this level, serving like this, he can get very far.  I wish him the best.  I was reading that he was having some problems with his shoulder, but didn't look like this today. 

Q.  Mentally, how do you think he is on court now?  His mind used to wander a lot more than it looks like it does now. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, his mind has never been his biggest weapon, let's say.  If he hasn't won a Grand Slam or been No.  1, it was not for his game but for his mind.  But, you know, you never know what can happen with him.  I really wish that he can win here.  I know is going to be really difficult, but he's a good guy.  I read somewhere that it's maybe going to be his last Wimbledon, so I wish him really good luck. 

Q.  How confident were you of your chances coming into Wimbledon?

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, as I said before, I know I never going to win here.  At least I'll try.  You know, I'm more confident when I go to French Open, and I lost second round, so.  Here I didn't expect to do really well but, you know, I've been playing very comfortable, very well.  I won one difficult match, and I lost to a player who has played three times final here, which is his favourite surface.  You know, as I said, I'll keep coming here next years and try to play well, to enjoy on court.  This period of the year is the time when the players, like Spanish player, we don't have that pressure.  You just play for fun, try to enjoy.  That's why I'm coming here, to take the pressure away a little bit, to enjoy on court. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT