AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2001
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Carlos. 


Q.  Just didn't seem as though you were there today. 

CARLOS MOYA:  Well, I've been there, but he's been there, too.  That's been the difference.  I think he has played a great match.  Maybe I haven't played my best match, but I have to give a lot of credit to him.  He just play great.  Today I would say that he was simply too much for me.

Q.  Were you as surprised as you looked by how well he was playing?  He just seemed to sort of hit a golden spell right from the word "go."

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, a little bit surprised.  Two nights ago I saw his match against Norman, and they were both  -- I think they didn't play that well.  I thought that if he was playing that way, I would have chance to beat him because I was playing very well, too.  But since the beginning, he was playing great.  It seemed to be like he had no pressure at all, and he just played.  Maybe he was not expecting to win  -- expected to win that match that easy.  You know, he's been every time ahead on the score.  He won the first set pretty easily.  It's aa very big advantage for him. But as I said before, I think he just play great.  He keeps playing like this, he has a good chance to win here.

Q.  What specifically was it that was beating you?  Was it his pace about the court, the way he was opening up the court or what?

CARLOS MOYA:  He changed the rhythm very well.  He was sometimes hitting the ball well, hitting the winner, going to the net.  I think all what he did, it work out very well.  I had nothing to do.  As I said before, maybe it was not my best day, but all what he tried was great.  You know, but I cannot complain.  I just had a bad day.  I had a very good tournament this week, these ten days.  I'm very happy the way I've been playing - not today, but the other days. 

Q.  You have a big forehand.  How do you rate his forehand? 

CARLOS MOYA:  Today's been great.  I have to say that playing indoor, which was today, I think was better for him because was more difficult for me to put the spin on the ball.  The bounce was not that high.  I think that's better for him.  He was playing flat and was very difficult for me to put a spin on the ball.  He had a great forehand, a great serve, backhand.  Everything today was working really well for him.

Q.  Were you surprised by his serve, since you played him two years ago?

CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, I play him two years ago.  I know the way he plays.  I know he has a big serve.  But today also he's been having a very good serve, but my return was not that good.  You know, I just say that he has play great, was too good for me today. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT