WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2007
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Carlos Moya for you.   
  
  Q.  You haven't played tennis on grass since 2004.  Have you been practicing?   
 CARLOS MOYA:  I think it's been a great experience for me.  Maybe you won't believe that, but I had great memories on grass.  Obviously when we played in Australia I beat Philippoussis, then last time I was here I lost fourth round.   
 But I came here week before and I practice very well, tried to adapt my game to the grass court the best I could.  I think I have to be happy the way I played.  Obviously I'm disappointed because I lost and I think I had chances to win.   
 But still I played one of the few really specialists that is still left on grass.  So maybe he's not the Tim Henman he used to be, but still he's a great player.  He knows how to play here.  That made it very hard for me.   
 But still I have to be happy of my performance.   
  
  Q.  What was the atmosphere like?  What was it like playing not just against your opponent but with a crowd cheering for him?   
 CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, it was great.  It was great atmosphere.  All the crowd was supporting him.  I understand that.  After Murray retired from here he's the only British hope.  Probably is going to be one of his last Wimbledons as well, so I knew what was going to happen.   
 I tried to forget about that, and I think I did.  It didn't affect me I think.  I think it was a great atmosphere.   
  
  Q.  We heard a lot of, Vamos, Carlos, too.  This was such a different game from what you usually play.  You serve volleyed very well.  Was it fun to be out there in a match like that, that you may never play one like that again?   
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, probably because year after year there are less players like Tim Henman, that his game suits perfectly here on grass.  He is a true specialist here.  It was like a test for me.  I wanted to check how well I can play here.   
 I think I played pretty well.   
  
  Q.  You passed the test.   
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, still I lost (smiling).  But I think I passed it.  I'm happy the way I played.  Playing here is something different for me, something new.  I tried to do different things, tried to have fun.  That's what I did today.   
 I have to change my mentality a lot coming here.  Points are much shorter.  Try to get to the net as often as I can.   
 It was fun.  It was a great experience.  Still I lost.   
  
  Q.  Did the ball get away from you on that last double-fault?   
 CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah, well, it happens.  Second serve here, you take more risk than when I play on clay.  On clay you just kick it and high bounce, you know, no risk at all.  Here you try to push it a little bit harder.  He was putting a lot of pressure on my second serve.  I tried to go for it.  Sometimes that happen.   
  
  Q.  There were a few double-faults towards the end of last night.  Was that at all to do with the wind?  It was noted that you had adapted your toss-up slightly.   
 CARLOS MOYA:  No, I don't think so.  It's what I said, that you take more risk than you usually take.  Maybe when you be nervous you feel that.  But, you know, I took a lot of risks the whole match, just in the few important moments it didn't work well.  Still I think that's the way you have to play on grass.  That's the way I have to play.   
  
  Q.  Did you find it windy in there at all without the roof on?   
 CARLOS MOYA:  Today it was, yeah, much more than yesterday.   
  
  Q.  Was that hard to adapt to?   
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, a little bit.  It was hard, everything today.  You step on the court with 5-All in the fifth, knowing that you had so many chances yesterday, also had a lot of chances to win.  You feel a little bit the pressure, you feel little bit tired.  All these things together make it difficult to play out there.   
  
  Q.  How did you feel when he hit the second serve ace?   
 CARLOS MOYA:  I could not believe it.  I think the three aces he did today was on the same game.  It's what I told you, you have to go for it.  He did it.  Yesterday he hit couple double-faults.  Today he went for it and he did very well.   
 Two aces in two breakpoints.  Usually doesn't happen like that.  But he's a great champion.  He knows how to play here.   
 There's not much I can say.  In those few opportunities I had, I could not do anything.  Maybe yesterday I had more chances.  Still he play very well.  I had 4-2, 15-40, but he played four first serves in a row.  There's not much I can say.   
  
  Q.  Second serve ace, was that just a kick or a bad bounce?   
 CARLOS MOYA:  I think all together.  Pretty good kick, but still the bounce was a little bit weird.   
  
  Q.  Do you have better memories now of Wimbledon?  Does this encourage you to come back again?   
 CARLOS MOYA:  Well, the last times I was here, I enjoyed playing here.  If I didn't come more often it's 'cause I had a lot of problems with my shoulder.  I think I can play well here.   
 I was unlucky being seeded to play a player like Tim, but it was a good experience.  I came here last Tuesday to get some practice, to get some hours on grass.  I'm happy the way I played.  I was happy to be here.  Also I've been renting a house near the club, which makes everything much easier.   
 If my shoulder is holding up next year and my ranking is good and I'm playing good tennis, I would love to come back here.   
  
  Q.  What do you do now?  You leave London tomorrow?   
 CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Leave for Mallorca?   
 CARLOS MOYA:  Yeah.  Getting ready for the clay court again.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT