US OPEN
August 30, 2000
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk a little bit about your year, how you're feeling, the back, the foot,
all of that?

CARLOS MOYA: Well, the back is perfect. I don't feel any pain right now. And the year
has not been really good but I've been having ups and downs. Lately I'm up again. I'm
playing very well, very confident. Then last week when I was feeling very well and playing
my best, I damaged my finger, my toe. So, you know, always I'm having problems, you know?
And now looks like I'm healthy again and, you know, playing my best tennis of the year for
sure, and feeling confident again, feeling strong and very healthy.

Q. After first-round eliminations at Roland Garros and at Wimbledon, is this a little
bit of, as we say, getting the monkey off your back? Does it feel good to get a first
round behind you here?

CARLOS MOYA: It's true that the only weeks I played well this year were small
tournaments. I didn't do my best in any major tournaments, so that makes a difference in
your ranking. It looks like now I am playing much better than I played in Wimbledon and
French Open, I am much fitter right now. It's always great to have a first match winning
in straight sets. And, you know, hopefully I'm gonna -- my best tennis is going to come in
next days, and I'm gonna
be -- I'm gonna feel more confident. Hopefully I'm gonna play a good tournament.

Q. You had a nice run in 1998.

CARLOS MOYA: Yep.

Q. Last time you played here -- do you have fond memories, it's been two years. Do you
have fond memories of this venue? Do you like playing here?

CARLOS MOYA: Sure. I always like playing in the States. This is my fifth year here, the
only time I came here very fit and ready to play well was that year, 1998, I play
semifinals. Looks like this year I'm playing well again. I'm very confident. I have a
tough draw but I just want to be focused on my game. I know if I play well, I'm able to
beat the best tennis players. All this is mental. I feel strong again and able to beat any
of the players. But my game has to be there, and also my body has to help me because I've
been starting with my finger and hopefully it's gonna be okay.

Q. How does it feel to be -- you've been a No. 1 player in the world, you've been a
contender, you've won a Grand Slam, been a major contender at every Grand Slam, and you've
not been seeded.

CARLOS MOYA: If I'm not seeded here, it's because I deserve it. Since last time here
when I didn't play, I retired for six months. Playing half a year is difficult to be
seeded in any tournament, especially in Grand Slam when best players in the world are
coming here. I'm used to it. I always had my feet on the ground. I knew if I not playing
well, I not be seeded. Hopefully my goal for next year would be come here, be here as a
seed. If I not, that means I didn't have a very good year. So you have to accept it. Right
now I have to be happy that I'm able to play 100 percent. I don't have any problem with
any part of my body, and that's what I want. I am on the court and play my best tennis.

Q. How frustrated were you with all entries you had over the last year?

CARLOS MOYA: It's real frustrating. At least when you lose, you have the chance to win.
For six months I didn't even have the chance to lose because I wasn't able to play more
than ten minutes. Now I'm happy again because I can play five sets, my back, I really
forgot about my pain, and, you know, I looking forward to the future with -- I'm very
optimistic, you know. I always wanted to be 100 percent fit, and as I am right now, and
the only thing I don't want is to be injured again. It's really frustrating.

Q. Is it hard to be optimistic like when you said last week you hurt your toe, hurt
your back, getting all these injuries all the time?

CARLOS MOYA: Yeah. Sometimes you think about how unlucky you can be sometimes, you
know, when everything is going down, you get more and more problems. Looks like when you
start to win matches everything is getting better. But last week I was playing very well.
I was very confident with my game. I beat some good players, and, you know, suddenly that
happened. And at least I was lucky that it was not any broken tendon or ligament or
whatever. But, you know, was frustrating because I was feeling very strong and right in
that moment it happened. And very sad, but at least when I saw the X-rays it showed that I
just strained my ligament, which was much better than if I had broken it.

Q. I think you played -- may play Corretja next round or the round after. Are you
playing well enough to beat a player like him who's been playing very, very well the last
few weeks?

CARLOS MOYA: Yes. As I said before, when I play well, I prove that I can beat any
player. And, you know, Corretja, for sure, is a very good player, but I beat him four
times in two years and he beat me once, when I was two sets up. I don't think he really
likes to play against me. But I don't like to play him either because he's a big fighter,
and when he's confident, he's able to beat any player, too, as he proved, too. But I'm
ready for that match, if it comes, and I still have to win my next match against Dosedel.
He has to beat Rosset. So still many things can happen.

Q. Do you still think there's time this year to capture the captain's eye and get into
the final of the Davis Cup?

CARLOS MOYA: Excuse me?

Q. Do you think there's still time this year for you to break into the squad for the
Davis Cup final?

CARLOS MOYA: Yes, for sure. Because when we change the captain, the four captains we
have now, they follow the Tour every week. The four which are gonna play are not the best
-- who are the highest ranking, but the four players are playing better. If we have a look
at the ranking, it's going to be very difficult for me to be in top three because the
fourth must be Balcells, which is also player. It will be difficult. If I play good US
Open and I make some good results and I'm the one who's playing better from the Spaniards,
for sure they are gonna pick me because of that. They don't have a look at rankings. But
the way you play and your form, so I am very optimistic on that. My goal also with the US
Open would be to be on that team.

Q. In a sense, I suppose you've become a little bit of a forgotten man in Spain with
the rise of Ferrero and the form of Corretja and Costa. Do you regard this as an
opportunity to remind people how good you are? 

CARLOS MOYA: Sure. You know how it works. The people always remember the one who's in
the top at that moment. And now people kind of forgot me. I am still able to play some
good tennis, as I will show. I am 23 -- well, 24 years old, and still many years to go. So
even, I mean, No. 1, I won Roland Garros, I was in the final of the World Championship. I
think my best tennis still coming in next years. I will show all the people that if I went
down in the rankings it's because I got injured not because of any other things. When I
got injured last year, I was here, I was 7 or 8 number player in the world. Then I was not
able to play for six or eight months. So I will show the people I am able to play some
good tennis and hopefully it's in the Davis Cup.

Q. Does the fact that you've won a Grand Slam and been No. 1 make you even more
ambitious to get back there again?

CARLOS MOYA: Sure. Because it scares me that, you know, I cannot be that player
anymore, and sometimes comes to my mind. But when you're down, you don't think positive at
all. I've been really down. It's tough to think that you can win again when you lose to
many players which you were never supposed to lose to. And, you know, but now that I'm
playing well again, you see things in different way. Of course being up there, as I've
been, made you think that you will not like to be here where I am anymore. So you just try
to do your best and hopefully I'm gonna be up there again in a short time.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT