WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2000
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions. 

Q. Do you feel you're still being hampered by your back problem?

CARLOS MOYA: I forgot already my back problem. I think I not playing bad, but it's just
my mind. Sometimes I had some tight matches lately, I lost all of them. It's not easy to
keep going after that. But I know as soon as I win one of those matches, I'm going to be
back again, I'm going to play good tennis again. 

Q. Is it difficult to accept that you lost first round in France, first round here? A
year ago you were No. 1 in the world. 

CARLOS MOYA: Well, is not easy, but what can I do now? I just have to look forward to
do well and to play better. I used to play well in the big events. Looks like now I not
that focused, things are not going that well. But, as I said before, I'm sure sooner or
later I'm going to play well again and I'm going to win matches. I don't know if I'm going
to be back to No. 1 or not, but at least I know that I'm going to improve my ranking, you
know, I'm going to be better player. 

Q. What is your feeling about your Spanish countrymen who went back and didn't stay for
the tournament? Did that cross your mind?

CARLOS MOYA: I spoke to them. I don't know what I would have done if I was in their
position. I don't think it's fair what they did with them. If there is a ranking, you have
to respect it. You know, we know that this is Wimbledon, and it happened for a hundred
years already. I didn't think they were going to change anything. 

Q. But you sympathize with Corretja and Costa?

CARLOS MOYA: Yeah, I think I agree with whatever they do because I don't think this is
fair - not to them, to anybody. If it happened to me, I would be angry, too. I don't know
if I would withdraw, no? Maybe I would play and try to do my best. Maybe I wouldn't even
play. Maybe I wouldn't even come. I don't know. I don't know what I would have done in
their situation. But I think is unfair what happened. I totally agree with them. 

Q. Do you feel you're close to making a breakthrough to getting back in the Top 20 or
something?

CARLOS MOYA: Yeah, I'm sure. I'm working well. Working hard. I feel I playing well.
It's just that when it gets to the point I have to win, I don't do it. I play well in
Estoril and the following weeks. After that I was not able to play my best, to win those
tight matches. I think this is what made a difference. But I'm totally healthy now, a
hundred percent sure that I'm going to make another breakthrough. 

Q. Is it something in your game, something you have to practise, or something you need
to sort out?

CARLOS MOYA: I think is a matter of winning those matches, those tight matches. I'm
sure that when I win one of them, everything is going to change because my game is there,
I'm hitting well the ball, I'm fit. Is just that lately I lost all those matches, and I'm
sure it's going to change in the future. 

Q. Do you have any feelings about the seeding problem? It seems to be on a lot of
people's minds. 

CARLOS MOYA: As I said before, if they do that here, maybe they should do it the same
in the French Open. Some of the players who are seeded here, they should play quallies
there. We have to look at that. I totally agree with all my fellow Spanish. Maybe in
Santander they can shut their mouth, some of the other player's mouth. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT