TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 25, 2000
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ATP: Questions for Carlos. 

Q. Last year you were the top-ranked player in the world, came in here as the top seed.
The first round, you're playing Pete Sampras. Must be tough to look at. 

CARLOS MOYA: Well, it's tough, but if nothing had happened before, it will be difficult
to understand for me. But after what happened last seven months, I cannot say that I have
to be worried or something because last tournament I played was before US Open a hundred
percent healthy. I've been six months off. It's not easy to be back and expect to win all
the matches. I had a few tough first round matches, against Hewitt last week, now Pete. I
not really worried about the ranking. I know if I'm healthy and a hundred percent, I can
play some good tennis, I'm going to have better ranking than I have right now. I mean, is
a question of time. For sure next months, I'm going to improve my ranking. Hopefully I'm
going to play some good tennis. 

Q. Did you have a herniated disc? What was wrong with the back?

CARLOS MOYA: I had a stress fracture. 

Q. In the back of your mind, are you really thinking of basically getting yourself into
shape with matchplay and experience for the clay court part of the year? Is that the plan?

CARLOS MOYA: No. The plan was to come here and try to win as many matches as I could.
Maybe at the beginning, I didn't expect to win not even one match because when you miss
six months on the tour, after the difficult situation you've been in, it's really
difficult thinking about winning matches and being a hundred percent healthy. That's what
I want, to be a hundred percent, try to get the rhythm again of the matches, try to win a
few. That's what I've done. Anyway, I'm a bit disappointed of the way I played today
because I thought if I was able to keep the level I practicing lately, maybe I could have
the chance to at least play better, to make a better score than I did today. At least I
can say that the back is healthy and is much better than it was before. 

Q. What went wrong today specifically?

CARLOS MOYA: He served very well. I don't know his percentage of first serve, but for
sure was very good. 

Q. 80 percent. 

CARLOS MOYA: 80 percent of first serves in? 

Q. That's what he said. 

CARLOS MOYA: The way he serves, to put 80 percent first serves in, I mean, is very
difficult. What I can expect is not to get broken with mine. That's what he did at the
beginning. What can you expect after that? I mean, he didn't give me any rhythm. He served
great. That's why I was a bit disappointed because I knew that his serve was going to be
difficult to break. But at least with mine, the way I was serving lately, I thought I had
the chance at least to get to a tiebreak or try to play some good points from baseline.
But I didn't have the chance. Just he played well and I was not able to play my best
tennis. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT