TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 23, 2000
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ATP: Carlos goes through to the second round where he'll face Pete Sampras. First
question for Carlos, please. 

Q. How does it feel to win?

CARLOS MOYA: It's great. After six months where I have this injury, I didn't think I
was going to win a match. But now I won first one in Scottsdale two weeks ago. I lost to
Ferrero and Hewitt. Here I win again. I have a tough match tomorrow or Saturday, I don't
know when. But it's great - just being back on court is great for me. I'm happy and very
excited. Now I know that I need to win some matches to get confident again, to feel that
I'm able to win or to beat any player. I think tomorrow is a great opportunity for me to
show that, to believe in myself again, just to know that I'm able to beat any player.
Tomorrow is going to be a good match for me. 

Q. Is it for sure tomorrow, not Saturday?

CARLOS MOYA: Or Saturday, I don't know. I say "tomorrow." I mean the next
match.

Q. Can you pinpoint exactly where the injury is and how it happened?

CARLOS MOYA: Well, it was a stress fracture on my L-4 vertebra, the lower back. It
happened in the States here last year. I think it was Indianapolis when I started feeling
some pain, then I could play Indianapolis, Long Island, and I had to retire in US Open
against Escude. They told me it was something else, like in two weeks I would be okay. I
played Mallorca. I think at that point I really broke my vertebra. After that, nobody knew
exactly what it was. After a month, I was told that it (was/wasn't ?) a stress fracture, I
was going to be two months off without playing, practicing at all. Then I try to go
somewhere else to check if they had the same opinion. I visit like four, five doctors.
None of them have the same opinion. That really confused me a little bit. I thought for
Australia I was going to be okay. I didn't practice much. I went to Australia; I could not
play. When I was back in Spain, I was told even with the pain, I should practice. That's
what I did. The pain is not really gone yet. But at least I can play. Looks like I can win
a few matches. What I need is to win a few more.

Q. How long did it take to find a doctor you could put your complete trust in?

CARLOS MOYA: Since first time it hurt? 

Q. Yes. 

CARLOS MOYA: Maybe two months, two months to find out exactly what it was.

Q. What do they say now? You can play and there is no danger?

CARLOS MOYA: It looks like the bone is healed. But still the area around it is trying
to protect, you know. Maybe it's more like stiff, you know, than it used to be. It doesn't
have the flexibility of before because I feel it sometimes. Doctor told me that I have to
play even with that pain, and maybe still, I don't know, like two or three months I still
have it. Now I can stand it. I can play and it doesn't bother me as it did before.

Q. Did they tell you you had to change something in your way of hitting the ball in
order to protect your back?

CARLOS MOYA: Not exactly. 

Q. The serve, for example?

CARLOS MOYA: When I was serving, it didn't hurt. It was hurting on my forehand. They
told me the way I hit the forehand is probably why it happened. But if I change my
forehand, I don't know what to do. It's my strongest weapon. I cannot change it. So I try
to make the area stronger, a lot of abdominals, to make more flexible. Now I can hit the
forehand the way I did before. 

Q. You're not the only top player who has had injuries in the last year. Why do you
think so many players are getting hurt?

CARLOS MOYA: I think is because the tour is becoming really tough. Since first rounds
you have to give your best, play many tournaments, changing surfaces. I think you put that
all together and it's normal that it happens so often. Not only the top players, but all
the others. Of course, when he's a top player, you know that, and everybody knows that.
But also not the top players get injured pretty often. I think that's why, because it's
very competitive, and the tour became really tough. I think that's the reason. 

Q. Juan looked injured?

CARLOS MOYA: I think he was. Somewhere here (indicating) ribs. He told me after. 

Q. When did you start again practicing hard?

CARLOS MOYA: Really hard? Maybe a month before I came here I start practicing, doing my
fitness, running, lifting weights, really tough. Tennis, maybe two weeks before -- ten
days before Scottsdale maybe was the first time I play maybe two sets, with pain of
course. 

Q. This will be your fourth match against Pete. What do you have to do in your mind to
beat him, what parts of your game have to be particularly good?

CARLOS MOYA: I think I have been to be very consistent from baseline, trying to hold my
serve, which won't be easy because he has a very good forehand, he just go to net very
often. I can play some good points, even games, but I not able to hold the serve all part
of the match. Today I did, I served pretty well. Tomorrow will be different. I know he's
serving very well. But at least, I mean, I have to try to put all the returns in and make
him play the point, every point, move him. I'm looking forward to play a good match
tomorrow or Saturday, whatever, to cause him some trouble, try to win that match. 

Q. Do you think your injury could have come from all the energy you spent in '98?

CARLOS MOYA: Well, '98, the beginning of '99, too. After I play the final in Indian
Wells, I reach the highest goal I can ever reach, being No. 1. Maybe after that, I got a
bit relax. You know, I think it's normal when you achieved what you've been dreaming since
you were a kid, to last a little bit. Also after that I had injury in my finger, yeah,
which I was not able to play my best until maybe Rome, Hamburg/Rome. After that, maybe I
didn't play that well. Then I had that injury. It's probably because of such a tough year
we had '98 and finishing of '99. That's why I say that the tour is becoming so tough, so
competitive now, you have to fight since the first round. Any player can beat you. I think
that's why being concentrated and focused every match, I mean, you get tired after all
that. 

Q. Do you feel you have to change your way of living somewhere in order to stay at the
top or not, relax more? 

CARLOS MOYA: Well, I like to relax. I think there's no way to be competitive all part
of the year if you don't relax your body and you don't have fun, you don't go with your
friends. You have to do sometimes . To disconnect from here, you have to do sometimes what
you like. That's something that a tennis player, we are not able to do as often as we
would like to. But I'm trying to do that. I'm trying to live my life and be myself. That's
what I've been told since I was a kid, to be myself. That's what I'm trying to do. I don't
bother anyone. I'm just doing my way. It's the way I am. I don't know, it has the right
things and the wrong things. I'm trying to live my life. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT