US OPEN
September 2, 1999
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. At one point during the first set did you first feel a pain in your back? 
 
 CARLOS MOYA: When I had this pain for ten days already. It got really worse and really
bad. But I had two days off so I thought it was going to go. I did some treatment. And
today I wasn't feeling real well, but the second game I remember, third game I remember
one backhand, I froze a muscle and it really hurt. So after that moment I could not move
well. When I was hitting, it was okay for my serve it didn't hurt at all. But I had to
react or make a quick movement, it was really bad, and that's why it didn't make any sense
to keep playing. 
 
Q. So this was a problem during your match with Hrbaty?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Before. But it was not that bad. I mean like I had it for ten days
already, something like that. 
 
Q. Is this an injury that you had before that repeated, or was it the first time during
this ten-day span?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: I had something like that, but I don't think was exactly like this. It was
never that bad. 
 
Q. How did it happen in Long Island?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Hmm? 
 
Q. How did it happen in Long Island?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: I don't know. I don't know, was overnight. Day after I practiced, I start
feeling a pain there, but I didn't think was going to be any bad thing. And I thought
maybe was a sore muscle or something, but I made like I didn't practice for two or three
days, and I thought was going to go. I got here and was hurting a little bit. The last
game against Hrbaty, I made the bad movement again and it start to be bad. I wasn't going
to -- I didn't feel it at the right moment, that moment, you know. But it was like
overnight. 
 
Q. Did you have any injection?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: Yeah. Yes, I had. 
 
Q. Before the match?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: No, no. I had last days I had. 
 
Q. If you had won the second set, could you have continued? 
 
 CARLOS MOYA: I doubt it. I don't think so. But I wanted to try, but after the second
set, I saw that there was not -- I mean wasn't make any sense to keep playing and he was
playing well, too. But these days, the moment, last two months that I was feeling really
well, hitting the ball and moving well. Maybe was my best moment, but it happens and you
just have to accept it. 
 
Q. Have you got any idea how long it will take to recover?
 
 CARLOS MOYA: I don't know. I'm going to make some tests in Barcelona when I get there.
So hopefully I'm going to be there for my EuroCard. It would be really bad for me to miss
that tournament, too. But I don't think it's going to be really bad in ten days or so, I'm
going to be able to play again. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT