US OPEN
August 30, 1999
Carlos Moya
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







USTA: Questions for Carlos. 

Q. That's a tough first round opponent, but you got through pretty well. Can you talk
about the match, the important points in it. 

CARLOS MOYA: Yeah. It was supposed to be a very tough match. You know, no doubt about
it. He's a good player. He can do anything. He can beat anyone, but he can lose to anyone,
too. I knew I had to take my chances, make him play every point, and that's what I tried
to do. The weather conditions were not easy to play today. It was very windy and very
fast. He plays flat, so it's difficult to play with him. But I said, If you win, it's a
good draw. If you lose, it's a bad draw. You get a lot of confidence beating a good player
in the first round. I hope it's going to help me, this win, I'm going to get some more
confidence, and I have to be same as last year, I got here, was not very confident,
playing bad. And I won two matches, then I got confident. Hopefully it's going to be the
same this year.

Q. Did you think about that when you walked out on to the court? 

CARLOS MOYA: Sure, I thought about that before the match, that I not playing well at
all, I not feeling confident. What I had to do is to fight every point. That's what I did.
I could beat him today. I thought if I beat him, I can get some confidence. It always help
to beat a good player. I'm very happy, very pleased. Hopefully it's going to help me for
the next round.

Q. Did the wind force you to play more conservative than you normally would?

CARLOS MOYA: Yeah.

Q. Do you think that was more to your advantage, because you are more experienced than
he is?

CARLOS MOYA: I think it's better for me to play with that wind because he plays the
same. If it's windy, if it's not windy, he's hitting so hard, he doesn't care about
anything. When he plays well, everything is in. But when he plays bad, he does not try to
change his game. So I knew that was good for me. When you play with windy conditions, you
have to be more conservative because the ball doesn't go where you want the ball to go. So
I played with that, more conservative, not taking many risks. I knew that he was going to
make mistakes. Sometimes he hit great winners, but many other times he made mistake. I
also took my chances. You know, it was better for me with this wind today.

Q. Are you playing well enough to reach the semifinals or is your confidence still not
at a point where you can think about that yet?

CARLOS MOYA: Right now I not able to play semifinal, but I'm feeling better than last
year first round. I try to remember how I was playing last year. It was the worst feeling
that I ever had. At least this year I didn't win many matches, but at least I'm fresh.
After a few rounds, which I hope I'm going to get to, I'm going to be much more confident.
That's what I need to develop my game. This first round, for sure it will help. But I
don't want to be very happy and think that I'm done, that I'm playing well. I think I'm
playing okay; not my best, but enough to beat him today. Let's see if I can play better
next rounds. 

Q. Are you relieved after you were able to win that first set?

CARLOS MOYA: Yeah. It changed the match for sure. I had chance at the beginning. I was
4-3 up, I think, with my serve. I don't know. For sure I was break up. Two set points at
5-4. Two more with 6-5. He's able to win that set, for sure it helps him. But he didn't. I
took my chances. So many times it happened that I have many chances, I don't get them.
Today was opposite. Had many chances; he didn't take many of them. That first set for sure
changed the whole match. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT