MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: ALABAMA 500
October 15, 2017
Ryan Newman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by today's runner‑up in the Alabama 500, and that is none other than Ryan Newman, driver of the No.31 Caterpillar Chevrolet for Richard Childress Racing. Quite a race out there today. Walk us through the final few laps from your perspective, please.   
RYAN NEWMAN: Yeah, that was about the only time I did race was the final few there. But a good run for the Caterpillar Chevrolet to get second. Wish we could have pulled it off. It's one of those deals where you stay out front and the caution comes out after you take the white, you look like a hero, but you start backing up to the guys behind you, and next thing you know you've got passed and then the caution comes out, so I kept my foot in it and did what I thought was right. I basically got double‑teamed and the 2 and the 22 got a good run past me. The 11 did a great job of getting me going at the start there; kind of reminded me of the old tandem days of drafting. But just not the end result that we wanted but a good performance, and we needed that after my screw‑up last weekend.   
   
 Q. There was three red flags today and 14 cars running at the end. I'm just wondering how to make these better races.   
RYAN NEWMAN: Oh, you're worried about that?   
   
 Q. I'm wondering. Are you worried about it?   
RYAN NEWMAN: I don't know what‑‑ I don't know how to answer that because what do you call a better race, first of all?   
   
 Q. Well, I mean, it's sloppy.   
RYAN NEWMAN: That's a matter of opinion. I mean, it is what it is. I don't think it's anything out of the ordinary or a big surprise for this type of racing. It's totally different than what we had last week and what we'll have next week. Again, it is what it is. I don't know that there's a desire to have a different product here at this type of racetrack.   
   
 Q. I was wondering there at the end where you got out there pretty far, was there any level of thought that you were going to have to block, but were you more worried about blocking or were you more worried about getting taken out?   
RYAN NEWMAN: I was worried about it all. I was trying to maintain the lead, keep a distance, and block the best I could without getting myself turned around because you can over‑block and be the guy at fault. I just either did it right or didn't do it right, but either way I'm not in Victory Lane.   
THE MODERATOR: Ryan, thanks for joining us. Good luck next week in Kansas.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT