MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 11, 2018
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/Ka. Pliskova
7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. When you play with another Czech, especially Kvitova, or is it Madrid, the altitude and her serve?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: It's always difficult to play Czech women.  Yeah, a little bit better she was today.  Overall of course not happy with my game.  I think she was serving well, especially the second set.  She had quite good percentage of the first serve.  I had some chances.  She always served well in the second set.
But I think the biggest problem was the first set and my game.  It's not that I would not have a chance.  I had enough chances to win the match today, but I didn't just play anything special or not even good enough to get some points.
Yeah, I think I was a little bit over-motivated today (smiling).
Q. Where do you think things went her way in the first set?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I felt already in the beginning, I think she was missing quite a lot.  Overall I feel it was not the best match for both of us.  That's just my opinion.  I feel like she was missing a lot.  I could have 3-0 in the beginning.  Could be different.
But I had my chances.  I just didn't play anything.  I just played short, to the middle.  She has a good hand, so she can kill the ball, she can put the ball back away.  She took off the speed little bit in the end of the first set.  Yeah, my serve was just not there.
I could not get to my forehand that much as I would like to play, so everything through the backhand.  I just was not able to push and make some aggressive shots from my backhand.  She was the one who was in the end in the first set more dictating.
Yeah, I should have played much better, or at least little bit better, and I think I would have won the first set.  Could be different.  But I think in the second she was much better.
Q. Obviously you're a bit disappointed today.  Looking back at your week in Madrid, what positives can you take from the tournament?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I did semis, so overall of course disappointed with this match because I think I can play much better.  I was playing much better during the tournament.  This just was very bad.
But I think, you know, only positives because I beat good players.  I had I think the most tough possible draw I can have on tournament like this.
Beating Simona, obviously it's one of my best victories in my life, on clay.  I was feeling great yesterday.  For sure positives I'm going to take to the next tournaments.  I have to just maybe try to take something from this match and be better next time.
Q. You said you felt you were a little bit over-motivated for today.  Does it stem from getting that win against Simona, wanting to get the win against Petra?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think little bit of both.  Obviously I played a good match yesterday, so it's not easy always to come back the next day, even though I was feeling better and better during the tournament.
Yeah, so it's like you go up, then you go little bit down.  The mood is every day little bit different.  Obviously to play Petra I think it's always little bit different.  We both wanted to win.  She was nervous in the beginning, first set.  Like I said, I should just play much better, much faster.  I know I can play better.
Like I said, I don't know, maybe I was little bit too over-motivated.  Obviously I wanted to win, to get to the final, to beat her.
But, yeah, my game was not there today.  She was better.  That's how it is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT