ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2018
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/B. Krejcikova   
7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How pleased are you to get that match in before all this just started happening?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I think at least a little bit lucky, because the conditions were not great for me today.  From the beginning of the match I felt, like, kind of slow.  And like I said, the conditions pretty humid and I felt like the water is in the air.   
So I was, like, because we check the forecast and it should be raining already like two hours before, I knew it was going to probably start rain during the match.   
I was happy to get the first set, pretty important even though it was pretty close and I think she was a little bit better in the end of the first set, but I had my chances, before I didn't make it.   
And, yeah, she was up 4-1.  I tried to step up a little bit in the court and play a little bit more aggressive, which paid off.  And I played a little bit better in the end of the second set.  But overall, not the best match, for sure.   
But just happy that I finished today.   
 Q.  Just in terms of knowing the weather forecast and all that today and seeing the courts kind of move by, does it get into your head at all knowing the conditions are going to be heavy?  This morning was incredibly hot, but how do you not let it psych you out, I guess?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, so far kind of heavy, this tournament for me, even in the practices, because it changing, like I said, it's pretty humid every day.   
So I feel like the balls are not flying that much, as I would love to, and today of course it was not great, but you have to get used to everything.  You have to just take it as it is, and the same was for her.   
So I just think my game would be much better in different conditions than in this one.  But I won so that's the most important thing what I'm taking from today.   
Obviously it's always tough to play fourth match after two men's matches, you don't have any chance to guess which time you're going to go because they can play 10 sets, they can play 5 sets those two matches, I mean, those two men's matches.  So it's always tough to know a little bit.   
But I think the timing was quite okay, yeah, so just happy that we were able to finish today and not to suspend till tomorrow.  It would be, I think, tough (smiling).   
 Q.  Just wondering how were your first two, three days after the tournament in Rome ended?  Because people probably saw a site where they were surprised to see you at the end of the Sakkari match.  What were those one, two days afterwards like?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I thought I'm not going to have to talk anymore about Rome (smiling).   
Okay, last time.  Yeah, I think everybody was kind of surprised what I did, but I don't know.  I don't think it was that bad, but I just felt this way after that match, because I felt like it should not be this way.  And the call obviously on 5-All and deuce, it was very important point.  Doesn't matter what was going on there, like, we were discussing about 20, 30 minutes.   
So it was, I think, it had a very big influence on the match.  I'm not going to say I would have to win the match if I win this point, but it was just -- I felt so bad.  So I just gave a chance to finish the match without this racquet smashing between the games, but then, in the end, like, the match was gone so that's why I did this.   
But I have emotions, so I don't know why people they think I don't have any emotions.  But it was quite positive, at least in Czech Republic, and I don't know how much in the world.  Obviously I got a fine, but it was not that big.  So I think from the marketing side it was good (smiling).   
 Q.  Obviously your sister's got a very interesting task ahead of her tomorrow, and you have obviously played Serena before.  She's never played Serena before.  Have you talked about the match a little bit or is it she's doing her thing and you're doing yours?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, we talk a lot, obviously.  Even though we don't see everyday chatter, because she stays in different hotel, and so having a different plan totally than me.   
But we talk always maybe about some players which I didn't know Barbora much.  We didn't play.  She played more some practices so she told me a little bit more about Barbora today.  And obviously I want to talk to her about Serena because I think -- I told her already a couple of things, but I think she has a good chance.  So if she believes she can beat her, I think there is a chance.   
 Q.  Have you looked at your draw here past the first round?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I knew I'm going to have, if I win, Lucie in the second round.  That's it.  Well, somebody told me from these Czech guys that there is Maria in the third one.  So I know.   
 Q.  That's as far as you know though outside of that?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah.   
 Q.  In terms of the next-round match with Lucie, what do you expect from that?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, she didn't play for a while.  So obviously not having many matches on clay, I think she played just one tournament.   
But overall, of course she's a good player.  She can still be dangerous.  I think she still has the level of some games, so she's always trying to play the best.  Lefty, which is always a little bit different compared to the others.  And she played well here a couple of years ago.   
So for sure she remembers.  I remember.  And for sure she likes these conditions that the balls are not flying that much so she can hit it full power from both sides.   
But look, I beat her last three matches, maybe two, three matches.  Most of them in the end I won, so I believe I can beat her.  I have more confidence than probably she has right now, more matches.  So everything is a little bit more my side.   
But it's going to be tough one, again, Czech one.  I'm just lucky I have all the Czech in my part of the draw.   
 Q.  You mentioned that you like the hotter conditions when the ball flies.  Considering your power, can you also see the wet conditions as an advantage maybe?  Because players with less power possibly they can't hit through anymore, whereas you still can.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't feel like I have some power (smiling).  I think with me it's more everything about the swings, so it's not really -- I'm not using any power, so that's why if the conditions are like this that's why I just don't feel well.   
I think I was just playing pretty slow today, and all the balls were pretty short.  That's why I like better to play during the day and in the hot conditions, but I have to find some power and hit a little bit harder, because otherwise, look, even Barbora today was playing faster than me, I felt.   
So I have to just move maybe a little bit in the court and try to play a little bit more with the body, not only with the hands, and just to get more speed in the shots.   
 Q.  Just in terms of your preparation and getting here, because we didn't talk to you before the tournament, I mean, I assume that you are more confident this year in Paris than you were 12 months ago, but I don't know.  In terms of the leadup and everything, how are you feeling going into this tournament?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I felt actually good.  Obviously I had kind of good results on the clay if we forget Rome.  I think I was playing good tennis.  Fed Cup, obviously Stuttgart I won, Madrid semifinals.  So I was feeling pretty solid, not the best, but they were good matches.  There were worse matches.   
But I did some, I think, two, three days very good practicing in Prague before I left here, and I'm from Wednesday here, so having few days of practice here.  Didn't feel great here, but it's just how it is.   
So I think I just have to go through as I went last year.  And so with me, it sometimes doesn't matter how I play, if I play good or not, so it's more about the head if I'm there with my head, with my thoughts.   
So I can win all the matches even when I'm not playing well.  And that's how I feel right now, as well.  But, yeah, I'm in the second round.  So let's be positive and very happy.   
 Q.  Your country has several top players in the women's tennis, I think.  Is it something special training in the younger generation?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I don't think so.  And I don't know why we have so many good players in Czech Republic.  Everybody is asking and everybody is thinking that we gonna say something special, but I think it's just we have good clubs, good coaches, a lot of good things in Czech Republic for tennis.  So many past champions in Czech.  So of course it's good to have somebody who played before you, not only you, so I think just that's why it is like this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT