BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 3, 2018
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/C. Bellis
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Pretty happy with that first match of your season?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah.  I think it was quite solid.  I felt okay on the court.
Like I said, I had some matches already in the end of the first -- well, the last year.  So was not, like, big hole without matches for me.
So, yeah, but anyway, I was a little bit sick.  So I was not really -- I didn't know how I'm going to play, how I'm going to feel.  So just happy I got this win.  Won quite easy.  We never played.
So I think good start.
Q. Did you feel the lead-up, since you were sick, were you practicing regular or were there days where you just didn't?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No.  Here in Brisbane, I was already practicing except the first day.  But I was sick on my way in Thailand.  I got sick on the way from Czech Republic.  So the main problem was there.
And here I was already fine, so I was practicing almost twice every day.  So I think I was ready 100% ready for the match.
Q. I know you had a late start for Wednesday.  Did it feel like maybe almost too long that you have to wait?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yes.  Actually, and still with this -- that we had to play last match on Wednesday, I felt like we are here, like, two weeks and without any matches.  So I was pretty happy to go on court today.
And, yeah, but like I said, I quite need it, and I don't know how I'm going to feel.  So that's why I had the late start, but everything was fine.
Q. The next one is against Kanepi.  What kind of match do you expect and what about tactics?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think we play few times but not for last few years, what they just told me.
Well, first of all, I think she won the tournament because I saw her on the -- where I walk to the locker room.  So she has to like this conditions also.
I think she's playing quite similar and good serve, what I remember.  So quite good shots.  Pretty fast then.  So I have to play aggressive and don't let her play.
So that's now what I think, but maybe we will talk with my coach a little bit more about her.
Q. Is this one of the faster courts on tour?  What's the speed playing like this year?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think the court would not be that fast but the conditions, together with the heat and with the humidity and the balls, it just feels fast.
But I think in Melbourne it's for me still the fastest.  I don't know.  This year it's going to be surprise but last year was the fastest for me.
Q. Do you want it that fast as it was last year?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No.  Everybody thinks, yes, with my game, but I also need some time for my shots.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT