AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2018
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/K. Pliskova   
6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was a good start, and then...  Talk us through what happened.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't know actually.  Like you said, I think I started pretty well.  She was not playing the best, for sure.  In the first couple of games, she gave me some mistakes.   
I think was huge the game 4-0 to go double break up.  It would be not for sure, but most probably my set, the first one.  I think she just plays always good against me, so I don't know where is really the problem.  I need to change something maybe for next time.   
Even though I had 3-0, I had some chances, it would be different if I would make it for 4-0.  I don't think I was playing that bad after.  We were just going through the rallies.  I think she's reading my game pretty well.   
My serve is not that effective on her.  She returns pretty well.  She's strong on the backhand side.  I think there is couple of, you know, moments and points where I can for sure play better.   
I don't think I did something that wrong.  Yeah, maybe just the big points I play bad against her, then it's change quickly.  I think all the matches were pretty similar.  Even though we went three sets, I just have the feeling it's similar.  Even in practice, I feel she just likes my game.   
 Q.  You get that sense in practice?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I have the same feeling in practice, yeah.   
 Q.  Is it pressure, her speed pressure?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't think she has any speed.  I think she's just using my speed.  That's the problem.  I try to play fast, but I think she likes this.  She doesn't have to give any power, like, into her shots.  She just use my speed.  Then in the end, I'm the one who is running.   
It doesn't make sense (smiling).   
 Q.  At 3-0, you seemed to have a lot of net cords go against you.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Whole tournament, yeah (smiling).   
Obviously it was the game after on my serve, so could be different if it goes back on her side.  Was 30-All or deuce.  She made two net cords.  I made few on my side.   
I don't think this was really the problem.  It was just one game.  But this kind of, like, break me down little bit even more after when I lose this game.   
 Q.  You're joking things haven't gone well for you this tournament.  Is there anything you can take out of this swing that's positive?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Look, I don't want to be that negative because I lost in quarterfinal, which is still the best result here at this tournament for me.  Obviously I wanted to go, and I felt like I could go more far.  She's one of the toughest opponents for me still in the tournament here.   
Maybe next time I can be more lucky with the draw.  I think the draw was kind of tough for me with having the two Czechs in a row.  Especially Barbora.  I think that match also cost me some power, not only because of her, but also because we finish so late.  I think maybe if I would have little bit more power, I could...  Well, you never know.  I'm just talking now, but...   
I'm fine.  I think I played some good matches, also in Brisbane.  For me it's important that I start the year with a couple of matches not to lose in first or second round.  That will be tough to go into the year, to continue.  Like this, I feel like it can be only better.   
 Q.  Do you feel that late finish against Barbora sort of affected your chances today?  How long does it take for you to get to sleep after a match that finishes so late?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't know if it would change the match.  Probably not.  I was feeling fine.  Nobody's feeling, after 10 days of playing every day, 100% ready or fit.   
I went to sleep at 7 in the morning yesterday.  I think just these late night matches they should cancel.   
 Q.  With her and obviously Kerber in the semifinal, Wozniacki, when you talk about being a power player, playing against those types of counterpunching defensive players, what makes Halep different than Kerber or Wozniacki or Svitolina, Radwanska?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think it's pretty similar.  Well, Radwanska, we know the record against Radwanska, right (smiling)?  Yeah, but I think it's pretty similar, all of them.   
For me, Kerber and Wozniacki are still better than Halep because I feel like the game, with the forehands what they have, I know Kerber is lefty, but when I can really push, I feel like I can have some points.   
I feel like with Halep, she really likes this game when I push.  Like I said, with the speed, she doesn't have to make any power to put in the shot.  She just is using the speed.  That's what I feel like.   
With Caro, I think she doesn't like my game also that match.  Still she beat me few times.  I feel like there is always a chance against her.  Although she's serving much better, some of the shots are better.   
But for me, so far Halep is the worst.  I just pray she's not in my draw next time (smiling).   
 Q.  She's world No. 1.  Would you expect her to go on and win this?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Before the match?   
 Q.  Now.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: The tournament?   
 Q.  Yes.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I don't know.  Every match is different story.  I don't think she's going to win it.   
 Q.  Who do you think will win it?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think Kerber is better now.   
 Q.  How long did you sleep for going to bed at 7 a.m., and how does that affect your preparations for this match?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I went to sleep at 7.  I put alarm at 12 because I would not wake up, just to try to have a normal day.  I went to hit.  Overall after was fine.  But still it changed a little bit.   
Today was a day match.  It's completely different story than I was playing the matches before.  Every match for me was different story here.   
 Q.  Can you usually survive on five hours' sleep?  What's normal for you?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I need about nine or ten (laughter).  I like sleeping.  Yeah, but I went to sleep early yesterday.  Like I said, I was feeling okay today.  It's not about that.   
 Q.  I think it was in the early stages of your career you struggled a little bit at majors.  In the last two years or so, you've become more consistent.  Is that something you're happy with now, that your record at the majors is so improved?  Do you still feel disappointed when you lose at this stage, thinking you could have gone further?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, you have more expectations with the way how I was playing with opponents I was having.  So far this is the loss which is I would say normal.  She was the better one today, so this is not something when I was, like, really upset.  Last year I lost with Lucic.  That was a much better chance to get to the semis.  This is not the case.   
Obviously you want to go far.  You want to do more.  You want to do better every year, every Grand Slam.  So my limit from when I was stuck in the third round, it moved to the quarters now.  Maybe in two years, I move to semis (smiling).   
 Q.  How do you see Caroline Wozniacki's chance to win her first Grand Slam?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think she has a chance, for sure.  I think she's going to make it to final.  I don't bet any more.  You remember last time when I bet my house (laughter).  So I don't bet anything.   
I'm sure she's going to take care of the match which she's going to have tomorrow, semifinal.  But in final, it depends who is going to be there.  If Kerber is there, it's going to be tough because she has experience of finals and she won the finals.   
On the other hand, if Halep is there, I think Caro can handle the nerves maybe better.  I think it's open, for sure.  She's one of the favorites now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT