BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 28, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. WOZNIACKI/K. Pliskova
7-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I guess both of you had a lot of chances in that first set.  How important was that opening set for you and for her in that match?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think it was about the first set overall.  I don't know how it would play if I would have won the first set, if it would have been that easy in the second, but I had so many chances, you know, so many even from the first game from the beginning of the match, so many break points.
I think she played overall well on my chances, but I could play definitely better.
Q. Are there certain chances that kind of stick out in your mind as the ones that maybe got away?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I have in my mind so many chances that I don't even know which one was the worst one.
Yeah, I think the set points, few of them she served well, but I had one on my serve in the tiebreak.
Yeah, I didn't have any -- I had an easy shot actually after that first serve, so this one I could hit better.  But I think just overall tough to play against her here on this surface with her game, and I think was quite high quality match from both of us, especially the first set, some good points, some good rallies.
But I felt like I had just less winners than compared to my mistakes.
Q. Simona was in here yesterday, and she said 100% this court is not for me, I can't get the ball through the court, I can't play the way I want to play on this court.  Do you feel like when you play here that you're fighting the surface a little bit more than, you know, at other tournaments?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, you know, if I would have do one point differently I could be maybe in the final and I would talk different way.  So I'm not going to say the surface is not for me.
But I just think it's very tough to play somebody like this on this surface that everything has to go really through the rally.  You have almost no aces, no points from the serve, because she's just defending that well, and the serve is going to just let her to do that well.
Q. Now that your season is over, what do you take away from it?  What are some of the things you'll look back when reviewing the season?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Um, from here definitely I have four matches, three good ones.  The one was just not really good.
Yeah, I improved, which was my goal, from last year I improved quite a lot overall even during the season, even here with this tournament.
So still everything a little bit improving.  Not with the big steps but with the small steps, which is good.  Hopefully next year it can be even better and I can improve in some things where I want to improve.
Q. What are the highlights of your season that you take with you into 2017, and which are maybe the frustrations, the things you want to think about and try and improve on?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I still think overall I think I won pretty much more of the tight matches what I was playing, of the three-setters what I was playing, but I think some matches I could play a little bit differently, a little bit more aggressive.
Not really the one today, but there were some which I would play in a different way, maybe US Open or maybe the quarterfinal in Australian Open.  But still, like I said, so far my biggest season, so I'm not going to be upset at all.
Yeah, let's just be positive.  I think I improved so much on the Grand Slams, and still, I don't think I'm playing my best tennis.  I think I can do better.  But I made it pretty deep in the tournament three times already, so I think this can be better next year.
Q. You just said something about small steps, not big steps.  Is it more important to improve gradually than suddenly have a breakout season and have to kind of defend that?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think everybody is different, so it means like this, so I just go slowly.  It's nothing that -- you know, I don't have waves like this (indicating up and down).  Hopefully I'm not going to have this wave (indicating low point).
Yeah, I think there is -- well, I'm at the top, I mean, the closest top.  So there is not much what you can improve, but there is still, with me I feel there is actually a lot of things, a little bit of everything with my shots, with my serve, overall with my game, with my mental side.  So I think there are so many things I can get better at if I get that little bit, about a little bit, I think I can be better next year.
Q. Obviously the race for No. 1 is over, and Simona will finish the season at No. 1.  Just wondering if you have any thoughts on her season and kind of how tight it's been throughout the year kind of chasing that number down?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I'm absolutely fine with that.  This is the last thing what I'm really thinking about now.  Obviously I knew I have the chance to, you know, finish the year there, but I would still have to win two tough matches.  So it was really far away from me.
I think she had a pretty good season.  I would say similar as me.  She made the final of Grand Slam, so she had some titles, I think, some good results on big tournaments.  So I think she deserve to be there.
Maybe I think with Muguruza it's still close.  I think she was playing maybe a little bit better on the bigger tournaments, but, yeah, I think she had a good season.
Q. I know you've made arrangements for next year in terms of coaching, but how do you assess this week with Rennae and how much contact will you keep with her over the next few months and weeks?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I have to just plan my next year, which I'm not gonna do now in few weeks, but once my mind is clear, I just plan my, you know, tournaments and my coaching stuff.
I have a coach ready, but I would like to keep in touch with Rennae, maybe continue maybe with some small things if she can travel for some tournaments.  I know the big tournaments she's doing TV and stuff, so I know she's going to be around.  So maybe it's just gonna be nice to have her sometimes in the box.
Q. So looking ahead to the offseason, what are some of the immediate plans?  To go home?  Have you made any arrangements or decisions in terms of how you'll spend the preseason?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah.  First, rest, definitely.  I feel like I need rest like 10 weeks (smiling).  I think I'm going to have like two weeks.
And then I will see.  I don't really have any power to think about tennis now.  Yeah, I don't feel like playing for a while now (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT