BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 24, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/G. Muguruza
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously 2-0 you know that you have won the group and that you're in the semifinal.  Talk about how good that is to be the first one in.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I'm just happy that I don't have to play the next match for qualifying, because last year I was playing for it and it was pretty stressful, I would say.
So always happy, you know, that if I can win few matches in a row, it give me always extra confidence.  Even today was not the best, but still I won so it counts.
There is one more match to go in the group, which I want to try to enjoy, not to lose, but just to try to enjoy the tennis a little bit more.
Q. The late start today kind of give you extra incentive to finish the match as quickly as you did?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I'm just happy that we didn't play for next three hours, because we were waiting for quite long.  So always good to finish as soon as possible.
But I think it was pretty tough, because we were waiting so long.  There was already match point in the second set, and then it went so long, the match, that we were a little bit both shaky in the beginning of the match and a little bit nervous and maybe a little bit tired, as well.  Because I was quite watching the match before.  Next time I maybe don't watch that much tennis before my tennis (smiling).
Yeah, but I think the girls, they played well, the match before, so it's always tough to go after a match like this on court, and especially that late.  Some people left, so the atmosphere was not as good as if you played the first match.
Q. Did you find yourself really getting into the first match with Venus and Ostapenko?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I wouldn't say into it, but I just wanted them to finish (smiling).
As much as I wanted, they still did not finish.  Yeah, it was pretty good match.
Q. Seven wins out of nine meetings that you have had against Garbiñe, is there a matchup situation there that you think just skews your way?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, actually not much.  I just go for every match like without this head-to-head what we are having, because I know she can play very good tennis.  I have had couple of matches where we played amazing tennis together.  And all the matches were pretty close except I think two, so this one is one of them.
And I think she can be pretty, let's say, off, like everybody can be off, but this was probably one of her days.  And of course I remember the last one I lost in Cincinnati, so I just really wanted to be ready from first ball and not give her that chances because probably she had that last match also in her mind.
So that's why I started so well.  Not, like, well, but I was up both sets 3-Love, which was important for me to feel that confident from the head-to-head matches.
Q. Just talking about your serve, your opinion of your serve is always different from mine.  It seems like you're serving very well in this tournament.  The percentages are up.  You're protecting the second very well.  Do you get that sense?  Do you feel like you're serving better than you have in months?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Not really, but I think this surface is making, like, quite big difference with the serves, because even though I don't hit great first serve, I still can have a point from it, which on some surfaces, when it slides really into the hand, I can have a good return back, which is not happening here, so I have quite lot of points from the first serve and also few aces.
But I feel the serve, the motion, quite okay this week.  Even the second serve I feel like it's working here, so I'm trying to always mix it a little bit.  Just happy I lost two of my service games only.  Still, I think I could have played better both two games, so I think the serve is okay.
Q. When you were watching the previous game, were you doing anything to keep loose or keep warm, given that it was going so late, in terms of exercising and keeping yourself loose and warm?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah.
Q. Given that the previous match was going so late, were you doing anything of that?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, not much.  I tried to rest a little bit and to eat a little bit.  You cannot do much.  There was that match point in the second set, so I felt like maybe we should go on court already.
But then so I warm up, I was ready to go on court.  But it went over, I think one hour more they played, so I just tried to rest a little bit, and, yeah, I was in the gym watching a little bit TV and just wanted to be ready.
Q. Obviously you're qualified so you want to enjoy the next match, but with the No. 1 ranking on the line, wins and points matter, 3-0 makes a difference compared to 2-1.  Does that maybe make the next match a little bit different than just kind of knowing that it's a, quote unquote, dead rubber?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think it's going to be different for both of us, because she, I think, she cannot go out of the group, so it's for both of us going to be quite different match, because you don't play for this qualifying and for the thing that you are staying in draw.
But there is still a lot of points and playing a lot of money.  I just want to win, you know, like every other match.  Maybe it's going to have little bit different atmosphere than this one or the first one, but still, it's a match, and I don't want to lose any of those matches what I'm playing.  So would be nice to win all the three in the group.
Q. The fan question today is that we know you like to fish, and if you could name your fishing boat anything, what would you name it?  A lot of people have fun and crazy names on their boats.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: The boat?  Oh, I'm not that far to buying a boat with my fishing, so I just go like once, twice a year.  So not even close to buying a boat right now.
But, yeah, maybe Kaja.  That's how they call me.  I know they usually have nicknames on the boat, so maybe like this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT