BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 26, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. OSTAPENKO/K. Pliskova   
6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Was it tough maybe today to find that extra gear in the second set, given that you were already into the semifinals?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, it was tough.  Not only in the second set; I think even in the first.  I think I started pretty well today but had few break points, so that game was a little bit the key of, I don't want to say first set, but I felt like if I would have made it, it would be different.   
Yeah, really tough little bit to push myself into it and to play the best tennis if you know you're qualified.  Wasn't being ever in this situation, so I felt weird today.   
 Q.  Obviously there was stuff to play for, points and other things.  What was the mindset going in?  Did you talk to Rennae and the team about it before you played?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, you play so many times for points and for money during the year that this is not really the biggest motivation for me.  So I just want to win the match, but not because of the points and money.  That's why I felt like this today.   
I thought I had two good matches.  Yeah, like I said, a little bit weird to go on the court today.  I didn't know how I'm going to feel and how she's gonna be playing.  I think she played amazing.  It's also the other thing, like I felt like not that bad in the beginning, but I think she was hitting the ball pretty fast and flat, so it was not much to do.   
Still, I was not even 50% today of myself.  So I talked to my team, but we just want to forget about this match and move on, because I have more important one on Saturday.   
 Q.  Now that you have played three matches in Singapore, can you talk a little bit about what having Rennae around has done to your game and how it's helped you?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, it's every day a little bit different.  We have different opponents, so we try to prepare for every match the best.  I think it was okay till today, but was not about the preparation really.  I think I did everything well but just was not there mentally.   
Yeah, I'm feeling great to have her here, to feel like she was playing some matches, she was playing on these stages, as well.  So it really gave me some confidence on the court.   
 Q.  Do you feel there is any difference in being coached by a woman as compared to a man?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Maybe a little bit.  It's my first experience with women, and I think the women sees sometimes some things a little bit different in different way (smiling).   
 Q.  You posted on Instagram about improving on your selfie skills, and then Rennae replied, I think she asked you to go to bed.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Ah, I didn't see that one (smiling).   
 Q.  Just talk about going into the semifinals.  At this point do you think that it's going to feel like a regular tournament, I guess, at that point?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, finally I think it will feel like normal tournament.  I'm just happy this day is going to be over soon.  Tomorrow I feel like I should practice a little bit more, because I had, you know, three quite easy and not long matches.  I feel like I need to play a little bit more to get ready for Saturday match, which can be really tough and long, because, you know, the other group is not really like my group this time.   
Yeah, but hopefully I'll be ready, and I'm sure I'm going to feel much better and play much better.   
 Q.  What do you make of the results this week?  There has been a lot of upsets and been some blowouts.  There has been a couple of really tight three-setters.  Anything surprise you at all with the results this week?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: A little bit some scores.  I think even yesterday's match of Wozniacki and Halep, that was a big surprise for me, and a few others.  I think Wozniacki is playing really well here, but still, to win that easy both matches is, for me, surprising.   
But, yeah, it's tennis.  It can happen.  It's end of the season, so I know, like, maybe some girls they feel a little bit more tired.  Still, we want to play the best.  I think that's what everybody is trying at this tournament with every match, but sometimes it's just hard to find the rhythm, especially if you know you have three matches you have to play well, so for mentally I think it's tough.   
 Q.  When you say a woman coach sees things a bit differently, is that a good thing, bad thing, or neutral?  And also, having a woman coach, does that facilitate needing, like, a male hitting partner or something, or is that not necessary?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I feel like -- when I said they see something different, they see it like women.  I think the men sometimes want something from the women, something we are not able to do or maybe we are able to do but not often, not every match.  So I think still the men's tennis is a little bit different.   
And I feel like even when she played, so she can have the feeling what I have on the court.  So that's why she understands me more.  That's what I feel.  It's just good for a change to have somebody like this.   
I never got that experience to work with women, and I think maybe for future I'll just think about it to have somebody like this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT