BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 22, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/V. Williams   
6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  After last year, how important was it for you to get a quick start?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I was feeling so much better than last year, so I cannot compare those matches, not even a little bit.  I had a good week of practice here, so I felt like it can be okay.  But I just wasn't sure about how I'm going to feel, if nervous or not, because still we are the first match on.   
But I felt pretty good.  Actually, I felt really good (smiling).  I think everything was fine with my game today, so really helped me the first break that I breaked her, even though she still breaked me back, but I think I was just little bit better today, even from the baseline, even on my service games, so there was no need to panic with anything in my game.   
Even though I had some chances I didn't make it in the second set some break points extra, I think it was absolutely fine the match today.   
 Q.  At All Access Hour you talked about being familiar with the tournament now and the surface and the conditions, and you were thinking that might help you.  Did you feel like in the match that was a factor, that experience?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, definitely.  Especially the surface, I felt like much better, as I said, compared to last year.  Even in all those practices I know I was a little bit struggling last year here in all practices, even in the matches.  And also, I think the game of Venus and maybe the game of all the girls, it's better than what I had last year in my group, the girls, you know.   
So more aggressive style I have in the group, so I always feel better against those players.   
 Q.  When she saved the three match points at the end, did it remind you at all of the US Open match?  Did that help at all in the end?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Actually, yes.  I had a little thought in my head about it, because I know I was also up three match points there, but it was a little bit different match.  It was not 6-2, 5-2, you know.   
Yeah, but I felt okay, so I was absolutely calm about it.  I knew even if I will have lost this game I still had my serve, which I lost once.  So I was okay.  And then I played two good shots again for deuce.   
 Q.  The two other matches that you guys played before today were pretty close.  So today to be able to win so convincingly, what's that do for your confidence?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, for me, I think I feel like I cannot have better start than I had today.  Definitely important match to start with.  Doesn't matter what happen the next one.  I still have one win, which is important.   
So you always feel better -- I had the same last year, so you always feel more relaxed coming to the next matches that you have that one win so you don't feel that extra pressure that you have to get some wins, you know.   
So hopefully -- I don't know how I'm gonna feel on Tuesday, but I'm sure it's going to feel good and at least close to this match what I was playing today.   
 Q.  What were you primarily working on with Rennae during the practices leading up?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Not any specific things.  Just a little bit playing with the surface.  You know, the ball is a little bit stopping, so trying to move to the net with some balls if I can, if I have the chance.  Trying to be aggressive on the returns, which I was doing very well today.   
Some different changes with my serve, different slice and some kick serves just to change the rhythm a little bit, which is basically -- that's the main thing for my game, so return and the serves.  That's what we were focusing on.   
And I think even my game from the baseline was working pretty well.  My backhand scores were okay.  Just happy that I took the things from practice to my match.   
 Q.  You're one of the players that grew up watching the Williams sisters and now you play against them.  I'm curious, this year at the Australian Open when Venus and Serena made the final against each other -- obviously Serena has had so much Grand Slam success, but what was your impression, just as a tennis fan or as a person, of seeing the Williams sisters in 2017 playing a Grand Slam final against each other?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think they are both such big champions, you know.  Even though Venus didn't get the Grand Slam this year, I think still she's on top of the game and she's playing -- you know, she got here, so she's one of the best eight players in the world.   
I think she's still playing on high level, even though Serena, as well, she's not here, but I think they both are really competing so good still, and I'm sure Serena is going to be back.   
I remember them, watching when they had, when they were obviously younger, but I still think they are playing so well during all those years, still able to win big matches, so that's why I was just ready for a tough battle, even though it was quite quick, but I'm sure she can play good matches still.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your serve?  Looks like a really fluid motion.  Was it this way all along?  Did you have to make corrections growing up?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I always had a quite good serve.  I think the technique is okay, so I have been always feeling the ball, like, fine.  Not always the serve is good.  Not always the percentage is that high, but I feel like today was quite okay.   
Also, like, important for me to have the serve there, even though I don't hit that many aces today, if I hit those for first serves, I think I have a good chance to win those matches with the serve.   
 Q.  And also, do you feel that it inflicts fear in your opponent, that shot?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: My serve?   
 Q.  Yes.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, hopefully, yes (smiling).  I think even though I don't have the fastest serve, I still have a lot of points, a lot of free points from the serve.  Obviously some aces during all those years.  Yeah, even though she can make the return always, because I know there is -- everybody here who is here, they have a great returns, you know, so it's not always a point from the serve, but it's gonna come easy, and I can -- you know, I have my shots from the baseline, so I can make winners from it.   
 Q.  Barbora Strycova has been quite public in telling us the situation with you and her coach Tomas.  Just wondered if you'd like to respond to that and tell us your side of the story?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't want to respond on that.  Right now I'm in Singapore, so I just want to focus on those matches what I have here, on my weeks, on my team, and not any other things.   
 Q.  Are you disappointed that she's made it public and said that it was done behind her back?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I'm not disappointed.  It's not my problem what she's doing.  My team is absolutely fine.  It's going to be fine even for next year, so I don't have any problems with that.   
 Q.  How much do you think you being more used to the court was an advantage for you today?  You said you're more familiar with the court this time; whereas for Venus, it's her first time in Singapore being on this court.  How much do you think that helped you today?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think I had quite advantage from that she was not playing for last few years in WTA Finals, so I felt like a little bit more calm on the court than maybe she was.   
I don't know how she felt, but I think I was trying to take that advantage that I was here last year, you know, that I had some matches, I had some good practices this year.   
So like I said, I felt pretty confident.  Even though we had two tough matches against each other and was just 1-All head to head, I felt like I had a good chance to win.   
 Q.  Obviously an overwhelming win that you had here today.  Is there any part of your game you still think you need to concentrate on, moving on to the next match?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I'm going to play totally different player Tuesday, so definitely there is going to be maybe different tactics on this match.  But I feel like if I play like this, I'm going to be close to winning that match.   
So maybe the serve -- I think the first set I could serve better, but otherwise I don't think there was anything wrong in my game today.   
 Q.  Throughout the year you have kind of said that you're the type of person that needs to do things a couple of times before you can do it well, that you're not one to just burst onto the scene or dominate a tournament the first time you play it.  I'm curious when you kind of realized that about yourself.  It's an interesting character trait.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Actually, I was feeling through the whole year this year the best on all the tournaments, even though the game was not the best sometimes, but I was feeling like I have been playing for a few years, you know, the same tournaments, so finally I feel like better on the tour and better with the pressure, better with my position on ranking.   
And even though now, this year here, I think not even close to how I felt last year, you know.  So hopefully it can just be that one year what I was not feeling good and this year it can be much better, which already is much better.  Doesn't matter how I play those next two matches, but it already gave me the lesson from last year.  So I was able to learn from it and take the positives, and that's why I feel better this year.   
 Q.  The question is when you text friends and family, do you use Emojis?  And if so, which is the Emoji you find yourself using most often?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I use a lot, actually.  I think there is not even one message without Emojis.  I have few.  I will show you later which I use.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT