WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 19, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/K. Pliskova   
6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough loss, but you saved 10 out of 14 break points today.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: At least something (smiling).   
 Q.  Talk us through that.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I don't think I played my best tennis today.  I think the energy was pretty low from my side today.   
Obviously tough schedule for me last two days:  three matches in about not even 24 hours, so, yeah.   
I think she played very solid today, not missing much and obviously serving well.  The percentage from her side was pretty high, as well.  Everything started, I think even in the first game of the first set, my serve, and then obviously the second game.  I had some chances in the second set.   
So, yeah, some chances I had but didn't play well, any of them.  So just credit to her, but definitely not the best for me.   
 Q.  Obviously you had to be a bit tired from yesterday.  Would you say that you maybe were more physically tired or mentally tired?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think it's both.  Obviously before the match I didn't feel that bad, but then during the match, like I said, I think the energy was pretty low.  Even mentally I was not that strong, not that "in the match."  Didn't know a little bit what to play.   
Also, I think it's just tough to play three different kind of matches in that short time.  So I played Giorgi, which is absolutely different match from obviously Caroline, also quite different style of the game.   
I just think I wasn't there today at all.   
 Q.  Given the compacted schedule, what were you happy about with your game, given your fatigue factor?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Today?  It's tough to find something (smiling).  Well, still I think some points, not really games, but points I played quite okay.  I wanted to be more aggressive, and she was just putting all the balls, I would say, to my backhand side, which is, for me, tough to play aggressive from that side.  Still, she's better on the backhand side, so she was pushing me more from there.   
Tough to find something positive on this match, but overall I think in the last couple of days or weeks, I had some good matches and some good days.  So let's forget about this one and move to New York (smiling).   
 Q.  Typically, how long will it take you to sort of have you shake this off and get yourself ready for New York?  Couple days' rest?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I'm going to have one or two days' rest, and then obviously few days of good practice in New York.  I love New York.   
I'll just gonna move as soon as possible there.  I think I'm over this match, so it's okay (smiling).   
 Q.  Angelique talked about needing to learn to say no as a way of taking care of herself.  Is that something you're realizing with all the demands of No. 1 and the season you have been having?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: For me, there is no problem for saying no and no problem for this kind of media or those things around tennis outside of the court.   
I don't have any problem, and I don't think that has any influence on my tennis right now.  I was getting used to it for a few years, so not surprised with the situation what it is now.   
Maybe I'm not gonna be No. 1 anymore soon, so maybe it's gonna change again.   
 Q.  Does that make a difference?  Because obviously you got the No. 1 by way of results, and it could go the same way again as you go through the season.  Will that feel slightly better if you lose it and get it back this time by winning?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Not really.  Obviously I said already that it would be better to get to world No. 1 by winning a match, but in the end I don't think it matters, and I don't think there is any difference between those two.  Just about my feeling.   
But whatever happens, happens.  I think there is a lot of girls has chances this week, next week obviously with me losing some points, which was different on the grass, different girls were defending points.  I think it's pretty open for everybody.   
Depends on the draw, as well.  Depends how everybody is playing.  I mean, for me doesn't matter if I stay there or not, so I just in New York, and obviously then I have better part of the season where I don't defend that many points in Asia and hopefully Singapore.  That's important for me.   
 Q.  The tennis schedule is strange.  You mentioned you have had three matches in 24 hours, but there are also times you can play a late match and then an early match, unlike a sport like basketball where you know a year in advance you're going to play at 7:00 on a Wednesday.  When it comes to your sleep schedule and routine, are you good with dealing with that?  Do you have to have a certain amount of sleep every night?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I need some hours of sleep (smiling).  Yeah, it's tough if you play a late match, you finish late, and obviously you cannot sleep immediately after the match because still there are some emotions.  You just cannot fall asleep immediately.   
But overall, I think I'm pretty good at sleeping.  But still, I need some time to rest and recover from the previous matches.  But I think, like, most of the time they are trying to do the schedule so the players can have the time to rest and to sleep and not to go after night session the first round.  But just was not the case of the schedule of this tournament.   
 Q.  Do you remember the first time you got to be in New York at the US Open and memories and what that felt like?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think it's -- yeah, it has been few years, but started in quallies.  I don't remember my first match there, but I think first time what I went to New York I was visiting, not playing tennis at all there.   
Obviously the energy of the city is huge.  Obviously love to coming back there.  And especially after what I had fantastic last year, cannot way till this one, even though it's going to be mentally tough for me.  Just still like the city.  Even though if I will lose or if I'm going to lose, we don't know yet, but still going to enjoy some time off.  I'm going to move, I think, tomorrow.  So there's going to be some days for enjoying the city and not only the tennis.   
 Q.  I am curious how some of the top players process their defeats.  You seem like somebody who can just dismiss it and move on.  Are there any matches in your career that you still keep replaying in your mind?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, of course there has been few matches like this.  Not always it's easy to take it.  And sometimes matches needs a time to get over it.  But this one I think was not that painful.  It's sad to say it, but obviously I was mad or I'm angry how I played, but you just can't be disappointed from every match.  Just try to move, you know, as quickly as I can.  Especially if there is a Grand Slam in front of me.  I just don't want to think about this match at all.   
Obviously I go through a little bit, some situations of the match so I can improve in New York, but I don't want to think about it.  But there are some matches which are tough to take.   
 Q.  A follow-up on New York, playing there for the Open, some players either really like it or can't stand it.  You appear to like it.  Do you feed off the energy and the crowd?  What really clicks for you there that you like it so much?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I like the city.  That's the main thing probably in New York, even though you travel a lot in the car from the hotel to tennis.  Always you can have nice dinners, go shopping, so there is a lot of things you can do outside of tennis, which some cities they don't have the opportunity.   
Of course I like the tennis, as well.  So you have to really like everything from it.  So you cannot hate tennis and then play tennis there.   
I like the stadiums there.  I think all of the matches, it's pretty, not full, but a lot of people are coming to watch, a lot of fans, so always enjoy to play there.   
 Q.  A lot of legends play in New York.  Is there anyone in particular that you like to try to see if you can?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Legend tennis?   
 Q.  Like Martina, some of the players that are still out there.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I guess I don't have much time for seeing legends.  Obviously if it's in TV, which I don't think this is in TV, but obviously not going to go to watch legends.   
 Q.  Do you have a post-loss ritual?  Like a thing you always do?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: When I lose?   
 Q.  Yeah.  Like some players go and they grab cheesecake.  Some players have a glass of wine.  I don't know.  Some players lock themselves in their room for 30 minutes.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, no, I think I always have a little bit different feeling after matches and always try, always take it a little bit differently.  Sometimes I just want to be alone.  Sometimes I'm good.   
So it change.  Depends on the match.  But I don't have any ritual after my -- I don't want to have any ritual, because I don't want to lose (laughter).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT