ROGERS CUP
August 9, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/A. Pavlyuchenkova
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Did it feel any different out there playing your first match as the world No. 1?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, not at all.  And I was not really thinking about this.
But, yeah, after a while a match again, so was not the best.  And I think some moments were okay, but otherwise the serve was not great and overall I was not real happy with my game today.  But was enough and so another chance tomorrow to improve.
Q. Despite that, did it help to have a familiar opponent, someone you have beaten before in a moment like this?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I was not thinking about it this way.  Definitely I knew that I have good record against her, but it's a while what we've been playing the last match.  I think it was at US Open, if I'm right.  So it's almost a year, so lot of things change.
And I just didn't play a match since Wimbledon.  After a while back on hard court, so I was not really expecting good tennis, and it was not good tennis.
But, yeah, maybe I think she's doesn't happy that she's playing against me.  So she was little bit frustrated in the match, I think.
Q. Are you really happy on the hard courts?  Are you happy to be back sort of?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yes.  Yes, especially after the grass still and clay, obviously, still not my favorite.  So still the best I feel on hard court.
So I'm happy to be back even though the match was not the best, but I think it's first after a while.  So can be better in a few more, let's say, matches or in a few more days.
So I had good practice time.  So it's been two, three weeks when I'm playing on hard now, but still different practices and matches.  So I need some more matches to play.
Q. So you're physically 100% or are you kind of sore or is it perfect?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, no.  I'm 100% physically, I can say.
Q. I wasn't here right from the start but any nerves for the first match as No. 1?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I had a little bit before my match because I really wanted to win this one, and then also I knew I have the good record against her.  So I just knew if I play solid and okay I can win it.
But I have to say the doubles match yesterday what I played with Eugenie kind of helped me that I already had a match.  And I felt okay on the court yesterday, so it was a good decision to play.
Q. Was it the conditions today that bothered you most or just a matter of getting that match rhythm and consistency back?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, maybe a little bit of both.  Today, a little bit warmer than during the last week and a little bit windy.  So I think it was very fast conditions today.  So not many rallies, and I couldn't really get my rhythm today in the match.
So, like I said, I felt much better yesterday in the doubles, but we played late afternoon.  So it was a little bit maybe different conditions than today.  So yeah.
Q. In what way has your life changed since you had the No. 1 ranking?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Didn't change at all.  So everything still the same.  Still going out for practices and still want to win every match.
So maybe the pressure is a little bit bigger, but that's normal, you know.  So just counting with that and nothing has changed.
Q. Is it busier?  Do you get more requests, more business opportunities, that type of thing?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: A little bit, yes, but I'm trying to, you know, have my schedule for still to have tennis as number one.  And then, if there's some time to do any other activities, I still do it.
Q. What was the decision process like in playing doubles with Genie?  She said you called her up.  How did that all come about?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I was looking for somebody because originally I was supposed to play with my sister, but she got injured in China so she couldn't go, unfortunately.
So I was looking for somebody for doubles this week.  And I saw she's going to be on the list so I, like, I just asked her.  I texted if she wants to play maybe a few matches of doubles, and she was for it.  So, like I said, happened.
Q. Just generally speaking, for you, when you're in a match, what would be a reason that would motivate you to call down your coach for a consult?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, this week nothing probably because my coach is not here, so I would not call him.
But overall, yeah, it depends.  Like maybe if I would feel bad in the match or if something is not working.  Let's say today my serve was not working, so maybe he sees it differently from the place where he's sitting so maybe he can say a few more advices to me.
Q. Does that help you sometimes in matches when you call?  Does it help with encouragement and all that kind of stuff?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yes, because, like I said, he can see different things than I see on the court.
So sometime it can be really helpful even though he's not saying any big advices, but he can just, like, motivate you and helping some kind of stuff.
So feel sometimes better because, obviously, there are some up and downs in all those matches.  So sometimes it's good that we can call him.
Q. The hard court season in 2016 was a bit of a breakthrough for you.  What are the goals this time around?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, so far no goals for me because I think I had pretty -- so far I have pretty good season this year.  So really solid, few titles.  And last few tournaments on hard court, defending a lot of points, which will be tough in this U.S. year.
So I still want to play my best tennis, and we will see how I will fight against the defending points.  Obviously, we all know I won Cincinnati.  I was in final in New York.  So it's going to be tough to play the same as I was playing last year, but I believe I'm on a good way and hopefully I can play closer to what I was playing last year here.
Q. Do you feel a bit more ready given that you've got more experience than a year ago?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Of course, it's a year, you know, so I definitely feel like I have more experience now.  And still doesn't have to be that the experience help you with the, you know, wins on the tournament, but I feel more experienced now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT