ROGERS CUP
August 11, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/K. Pliskova   
7-5, 6-7, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think happens in the third set from a break up?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: First of all, I think the biggest mistake was in the first set.  So because of that, I think I lost.  So it was tough.  We played almost three hours.   
Overall, I think the match was much longer than just the hours on the court.  So long rallies.  So I just played one bad game when it was 4-3, serving.  So that's it.  I had new balls, was serving with the wind, and didn't help with the serve, and did some mistakes.   
But just tough to play her in these conditions.  She's everything putting back.  So, obviously, I did some mistakes.   
 Q.  With the first set there was so many stops and starts, how tough was that on your rhythm and do you think that was kind of what caused things to go a little bit south?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: A little bit, yes, because even after the first, second break what we had, I still felt quite okay.  But the third one, 4-1, I was getting a little bit tight.  And so going on the court and off the court, having some kind of warmups before I went on the court just was not enough.   
So I felt like the last break when we came back on the court, I felt a little bit tight and tired overall from this.  Was still the same.  And so we always played one, two games.  Was obviously nobody's fault, but I don't think it helped me.   
 Q.  So your first tournament as World No. 1 is over.  Just what were your thoughts about your performance this week and what do you think you can do better going forward?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think it was a tough week definitely for me.  Having two, three good matches under my belt is always good to have few matches.  And especially after that long time I didn't play matches, I think there's a lot off the burden after this week, but still a lot of things to improve.   
Now heading to Cincinnati in few days, so going to try to do my best and improve a little bit there.   
 Q.  As you said the first set was maybe the big error of the match.  Can you just explain what changed and what were you thinking as she started to even things up?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't think she started to do something better.  She doesn't have any chances to change something in the game.  She just have one plan, I think.   
So overall she just played pretty solid at the end of the first set, and I just did some mistakes.  And was trying to going for my shots, but my legs were not moving that good, so that's why I did the mistakes.   
And obviously the serve didn't help me at that point as well.  So didn't have much first serve in in the end of the first set.  That's at least one shot I need.  So I didn't have any of the strokes from the baseline or even the serve, so then you cannot win a set like this.   
 Q.  What positives do you take from your first week as World No. 1 on the court or off the court and just how you've assumed that role this week for the first time?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think I felt pretty good.  I was expecting a little bit worse coming to this tournament.  And, obviously, I had one retired match yesterday, but still I think I was playing quite okay and without any pressure.  Even the first round, even today, I think was quite good tennis even though I still think I could make some things better.   
But definitely a positive week for me and three good matches.  Feeling quite okay physically.  Mentally it's a little bit worse.   
But, yeah, there's the next week where I was playing well last year.  So I'm going to, you know, just look forward to this.   
 Q.  It was during the third set I think you were up 4-2 and you were saying you were tight the entire time.  Were you nervous?  Were you hitting the right way?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: At 4-2 in the third?   
 Q.  Towards the end.  You could have won the match, yeah?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I also think I could have won.  But, well, some things happen.  I think the game was very open at 4-2.  So if I would break her again, I think it was few good rallies where I could, you know, play different way.   
And the game was quite open.  It was from 30-all.  So I think that was maybe the key in the third set because then, overall, I didn't play well, but she just put everything back, even my serves, even some of, you know, the ground strokes.  So it was tough for me to close it.   
And I think it's tough to play someone like this.  All those girls like Halep playing out there and defending out there no matter what.  And you still have to go for your shots and even it's close like this, even if you go after two hours in the match.  And just it's just tough sometimes to do only the winners and be the one who is aggressive.   
 Q.  You were hired ranked in this match, but she's a lot more experienced.  Did you feel like the favorite going in?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Not really.  I think every match is open.  So I don't feel in any of the match.  I think everybody has the chance to win.  So I just try to take these things and to leave it in the locker room.   
And we played few times.  She beat me more times than I beat her.  So I don't think I was the favorite.  Maybe because of the ranking, but overall not.   
 Q.  You seemed to have a lot of fun playing doubles this week.  I'm just wondering is that something that you're going to incorporate into your schedule at some point for the rest of the year?  And playing with Genie, is that something we might see happen again or was that just a Canadian thing?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't know about doubles.  Definitely not anymore in States.  No more doubles for me.  And I will see with my schedule in end of season.  But not planning to play much doubles, not even this year, not even next year.   
So maybe if there's chance to play one or two tournaments, maybe we could play again, but I don't know what is her schedule.  Maybe a little bit different than mine.  So I don't know what is she planning to do with doubles.  So it's open.   
 Q.  So you played Caro four times this year and it looks like her serve has gotten better and her forehand.  Just talk about that.  Wozniacki.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah.  The first serve was today quite good, I would say.  A few aces and even the percentage was pretty high.   
So I think was definitely serving the best what I've played so far with her.  Obviously, grass it's a little bit different.  But even the forehand, though I don't think it's her best shot, it's still going to be the backhand from the baseline, but I think it's just tough.   
I think with my game what I'm playing, I'm playing pretty fast.  So some of the girls like it more than to play somebody who is just, you know, playing slowly and they have to play by themselves.  So I think she's using a little bit my power from the strokes and that's why we always have good matches.   
 Q.  Will you head to Cincinnati from here?  How much longer will you stay in Toronto?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No ideas yet.  Still want to maybe stay for one day off and then I will leave.  I'm going to have a bye there as well.  So there's some time to move and to even practice maybe one day.  So I need some time of my own.   
 Q.  A more general question.  Do you usually have a Plan B going into a match or do you just try to keep looking for your game if you're not playing great?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Not much.  There's no Plan B for me, but sometimes it just change during the match.  So sometimes depends on the opponent as well, depends how I feel.   
I still think I could be more aggressive than I am, but it's something what I've been working on and something what I want to improve.  But no other plans than the one and that's to be aggressive.   
 Q.  And just a question about your sister and her injury.  Is she okay now?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: She's back on court practicing, so I think she's going to be back in New Haven.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT