AEGON INTERNATIONAL
July 1, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/C. Wozniacki
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That is one big trophy.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah.
Q. How are you going to get that back in your luggage?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Unfortunately I'm not going to get this one.  I was just saying it was one of the best trophies, results.  I was happy at least to hold it, but it's not going home with me.
Q. Talk us through that match, and especially, you know, in the second set where you were fending off break points here and there.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I think definitely that was the toughest game in the match.  Just happy that I could hold, because it was important for me.  I think we were both serving pretty well both sets.  I was checking the statistics, and we both had pretty high percentage of the first serve.  It was just about a few points.
I was trying to be aggressive on her serve and was just waiting for my chance.  I got it when -- I think she didn't play quite well game at 4-All.  I played just two good shots, but otherwise she did some mistakes.  I was just waiting for this chance and was just happy that it came at this stage of the match and then I closed it.  Still was a little bit shaky at the end, the last two points, but I made it.  I'm happy.
Q. Has this title win changed your expectations going into Wimbledon?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Not really.  I was just, in the beginning of this tournament, I just wanted to play some matches and to see how it goes and to have some hits on grass, especially when I came from Czech, I didn't practice much on grass.
That's what happened, and it came out that I got the title.  So I didn't really expect this start of the grass court season, but it gave me a lot of confidence coming to London.
But it's the same last year.  I was also in final.  Didn't get the trophy but I didn't do well in Wimbledon, so hopefully, I believe it can change with this trophy this year (smiling).
Q. What is it about that?  Do you think it's because of the start date, the turnaround, just what?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: About what?
Q. Last year obviously you were in the final but I think you were playing on Monday?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah.
Q. It's a quick turnaround?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, it was tough.  And especially, I think the last match what I lost against Domi, was really tough and windy.  I, a little bit, lost my confidence and feel of the game.  And then I played on Monday, so there was not any chance to get used to the court.  Still, it's grass, but I think it's a little bit different every tournament.  Didn't have many time for rest and so it was tough.
This year it's better I play Tuesday, so definitely going to take advantage from that and to prepare the best as I can for my first match.
Q. On behalf of the club, many congratulations on your win today.  We are bringing out a book in 2020.  You see there is a redevelopment going on here.  That's expected to stop or finish in 2020.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: The tournament?
Q. No, the development, the redevelopment, the new buildings and the work they are doing on Devonshire Park here.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Oh, okay.
Q. We are bringing out a book to celebrate that in 2020.  I wonder if you have a comment or reflection or memory of some of your experiences here?  You have been here a few years.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: 2020, it's in, yeah, three years.  Hopefully I gonna be here.  Definitely hope to come back next year.
So far it's my one final and one trophy in two years.  Definitely I will try to come back every year.  I have been enjoying this tournament so much.  I knew there was a little bit of this buildings and a little bit rush this year, so I think it's going to be better once it stops and even it's going to be better in a few years.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT