ROLAND GARROS
June 5, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/V. Cepede Royg
2-6, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Have you always thought that French Open quarterfinals would be something that would happen in your life or is this a surprise?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA : It's not a surprise.  I believed I still have a game that I can reach it one year.  But it's a surprise this year, because I don't think I'm playing that tennis -- I think I played better tennis, especially this year, and even on clay.
Yeah, so I think with this type of game what I was playing, I would say there is no chance I can reach quarters (smiling).
Q. Can you take us through the emotions?  2-5 in the first set at the changeover you threw your racquet to your bench and you looked rather fed up with it all.  How did that compare to maybe one-and-a-half hours or two hours later winning the match?  What was that roller coaster like?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA : Well, I was feeling really bad the first set, as you could see probably.  I started really badly, and even I was just not feeling well.  There was a little bit wind.  The sun was from the side, so I was just not feeling well.  I didn't feel my forehand, my backhand, my serve.  I didn't have anything.
So I was just trying to, you know, at least do the one game, because really I didn't want to get 6-0 in the first set.
I believe if I a little bit improve my game I would have a chance, because she didn't have to do anything in the first set.  I just gave it to her.  Maybe because of the match, it went so quickly, the retirement before us, so I just wasn't ready 100%, and I didn't feel well.
It's even more surprising for me I at least improve in the second set.  In the third set of the game I still think it was not great but I was fighting for it, and it was enough today.
Q. What do you think this says about your mental side and how you have progressed in that part of tennis?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA : Well, after that first set it was definitely tough, but, you know, I was just thinking at least just serve, please (smiling).  And you can always have a chance, because I was just -- I just felt like I can always break her because she was not putting any aces or any pressure from her service game.
And it was the first step what I did in my head, and that's what helped me to do the quick break in the second set and that's what help me to go, you know -- I had 5-0, so even though it was 5-3, I think, I was still like mentally more up than she was at that time.
I think she also gave me some few mistakes so maybe if I would just start like this, the first set would be 6-3, 6-3, but just unfortunately didn't happen so I had to spend a little bit longer there.  In the third set I think was really open for both of us.  I improved, she improved as well.  So maybe she was few games a little bit better.  So like I said, I have better serve than she had today, so that was the key.
Q. As you said, you were unimpressed with your game and you are surprised you are in the quarters.  Can you give us any explanation of this run?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA : I don't know.  Sometimes you're playing well and you're losing.  I had this in Rome.  I felt I played really well and I still lost in two sets to Svitolina.  At this time, really don't think I'm playing well but I'm somehow mentally there and still fighting.
Even if the first set can be really wrong, because I don't think I played many worse sets than the one I played today.  Still, I think I have a chance like if I can improve a little bit, I have some weapons, you know, so one weapon at least working I have a good chance.  That's what it was today.
Q. Garcia next for you.  Just you were playing against, playing the on-court crowd as a second opponent.  Generally with this tournament, there is no Grand Slam champions in the draw, quarterfinals.  That hasn't happened in a long time.  Does it feel like an even bigger opportunity, even if it is a surface you don't love and don't feel great about your game and forehand, backhand, and serve are all bad?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA : I mean, it's Monday.  On Wednesday I think can be different.  I hope.
So, yeah, also one thing I believe I can still improve with the opponents, you know.  So I just had a draw which was not easy for me.  I don't think for any players it's just easy if they are just better and there's different kind of pressure.
I just knew if I played solid and if I play well I have a good chance to win those matches what I was having this first week and a half, let's say.
But there was no opponent which would just push me to play good tennis.  I hope that's going to be Garcia the next round.  Definitely I have to play better.  I have to.  There is no other way how I can win this match.
Even with the crowd is definitely going to be tough.  I'm expecting it will be huge and terrible.  I just, you know -- I played Fed Cup in France, so I don't think it's going to be worse than it was there.  I saw a little bit of match Mladenovic-Muguruza, so I'm prepared for it.
Q. If you start to play your best tennis, do you think then you really will be dangerous?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA : You can see I'm dangerous even without playing my best tennis, because probably everyone is in shock how am I playing (smiling).
Yeah, I believe I can play well.  I can play better than I was playing those first four matches.  And like I said, hopefully the level is going to improve with the opponent in the next round, and then it's open.
For her I think it's new.  She's in the first quarterfinal.  I have been in this situation not many times but a few times.  I just want to take advantage from this and anything can happen.  I just believe that even my game can improve in the last stage of the tournament, not in the first rounds.
Q. Just given everything, as you sit there, how do you feel right now?  Are you ecstatic to be into a third quarterfinal?  Are you confused?  Are you relieved?  What is the feeling right now?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA : Right now, I feel kind of happy (smiling).  So during that match, I really didn't feel well, even in the third set.  I just was not feeling my game, and it was still kind of, I was waiting for her mistakes and not really going for my shots and not really having my shots there, so not even serves.  It was kind of tough for me.
Afterwards she missed a match point, and I was like, Yes.  I didn't even know how.  I didn't do much for it.  I didn't make any winners almost.
So, yeah, it was tough win today, definitely, for me.  Right now I feel happy.  Especially with not playing well to be in the quarters and on clay, it's huge for me.
Q. It seemed like your opponent was chewing gum during the match today.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA : I saw it.  How is this possible?
Q. Have you ever seen such a thing before?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA : No, at first I thought she was eating something.  She went from the match and had like snack or something but during the game she was still having something there.  I'm surprised.  I don't know how is this possible (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT