ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/S. Zheng
7-5, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Not an easy first set.  You got your feet on the clay a little bit better in the second set.  How do you feel that match went from your perspective?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, the second set was definitely better from my side, more aggressive, better movement, as well.  Better serve.  I was able to make two or three breaks, which is always good if you can break her.  I felt like I was receiving pretty aggressive in the second set.
But the first one, you know, it's always tight a little bit, the first round.  And especially the first set she was playing I think quite okay clay game with me.  That's why it was a little bit more tough.  She was putting those high spins into my backhand, which is the biggest problem for me, I would say.
Just happy that I was able to make it in the first.  I think it was maybe the key for the whole match.  Anyway, if I would lose it, I would still believe I could win it, because I have a big game.
I was up in the first set 2-0 and I have many chances and I lost my serve, unfortunately, from 40-Love.  But I felt like I was a little bit better even in the first set, but anything could happen.  I think she played few good shots there and I had some mistakes, so that's how it is.  The second set I would say there was something to build on to the next one.
Q. Generally, you always appear very straightforward, very focused in your matches and all that, but do you have nerves before these sort of matches?  Do nerves kick in before you step out on court, especially at a Grand Slam?  Or are you just looking ahead to the task you've got and just focus, focus?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, there are always some nerves and some kind of pressure.  Especially on Grand Slam it's a little bit hard and on the normal tournaments.  I'm just trying somehow to not to put it inside me and not into my head.
I think it's usual that everyone is nervous, not only seeded players and not only the ones who have the expectation pretty high.
But once I'm on the court, it's fine.  It doesn't matter if you don't feel nervous that the game is gonna be great, but I was feeling pretty okay.  But the game was not there the first set.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT