MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 8, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. SEVASTOVA/Ka. Pliskova
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. If you could talk through the match.  It must have been a frustrating day for you.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, every lose is frustrating.  But I just have to move forward.  I don't think was that bad for the score.  One break in each set.  So could be different.
I had six breakpoints.  I didn't do one.  She did two, which she needed.  Was about those chances what I didn't do.  That could be different.
The seventh game of the first set - was it the seventh, sixth maybe, yeah - I could play different.  I think I was up two breakpoints in that game.  I could be break up first.  That could change the situation quite a lot.  Didn't happen.
I didn't serve well, so was tough for me sometimes to even hold the serve.  Just to break, anything could happen in the second set.  I could come back.  I was 40-15 up in, what was it, 4-2 down, 40-15 for coming back.  Didn't quite manage it.  Didn't play any great shot, didn't play any terrible shot.  Just was not enough.
So, yeah, not really happy still with the way how I was playing.  Definitely a little bit better than in the first round.
Q. Do the past three tournaments in any way change your expectation going into the rest of the clay season?  How do you go about Rome and Paris?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think right now finally I can change my expectation.  I had it quite high.  Right now I think I'm not going to expect anything more on clay.
Still have two tournaments.  I'm not going to (indiscernible) with Rome at all.  I just going to see how it goes there, try to prepare obviously for Paris.
Well, I still believe I have a chance.  Somehow I have to find my shape.
Q. Are there moments when you're playing on clay the last few tournaments where mid point you're kind of surprised the points are still happening?  Are those the moments you realize that this is where the difference is on clay compared to hard court?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, definitely.  That's the point, as well.  Also sometimes I think I didn't play that bad.  Obviously it's still quite fast here, but not that fast as on a hard court.  The ball doesn't really, like, slip.  It just jumps high even if I hit hard.  She can still get there somehow.
Then I'm, like, not the good runner so I cannot get to the balls that fast.  She played really good angles to me.  I was everywhere a little bit late.  I was not in a good position to push and be aggressive.
Few good dropshots from her.  That's also a little bit different on hard court than on clay.  Obviously you slide.  Even if you get to the ball, you still have, I would say, small chance to win the point.
That's tough.  I tried to just little bit move from the baseline to have more time, to going more into the shots.  But then those dropshots, there is no chance to win them.  It made also the difference because she played quite important points those dropshots in the first set.
Yeah, probably my game's not made for the clay (smiling).
Q. You like to keep your feelings in while you play.  What is it like playing a player like that who openly shows her frustration when she misses a ball?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: You mean Sevastova?
Q. Yes.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: First of all, I had quite a lot of problems with me, so I was not really looking what she's doing or not.  She was leading, so I didn't see anything why she would have to be frustrated or not.  She was just few breakpoints down, but that's it.
The whole match, she was up, so there was no chance or no reason to be frustrated in this match for her.
Q. Do you know if you're going to go back to Czech or go straight to Rome, stay here and practice?  What is the preparation for Rome?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think definitely I go back home.  I think tomorrow I'll leave.  The conditions still are different here.  It's still clay, but little bit different compared to Rome.
I just going to have few days, hopefully a nice practice at home, then I try again in Rome.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT