WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 23, 2020
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  V. KUDERMETOVA/Ka. Pliskova
 7-5, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Were you surprised at the way that the match turned out?  Were you expecting such a difficult first opponent as you had this evening?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   I mean, of course I was expecting, especially she played couple matches already, couple tournaments.  I think she played something before in Europe, I think Prague or something.
 I thought I started quite well, actually.  She was missing a lot.  I think she improved during the match, during the first set, and I was just couple points here and there.
 I think the first set I should serve much better.  I thought actually I had a lot of mistakes on the return.  Of course she played well.  I thought she just was going for it.
 She won quite a tough match in the first round, so I think definitely she had nothing to lose today.  She was playing free.  She was playing quite good tennis.  But it was not that I could not win this match.
 Q. Was it difficult being out there playing without fans to feed off of, or is this something that you have become adjusted to?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   I guess you just have to get used to it.  I know it's going to be this way.  The energy was a little bit weird at some point.
 I mean, if the match is getting close and then I thought some good rallies we had, but it's just without any noise (smiling).
 But I don't think it had any effect of the match that I lost because of no fans, because, I mean, it's same for everybody.  At some point, you just need to fight no matter if the people are there or not.
 But maybe I think at some point my energy would be different or could be different if there is some crowd and some energy from the crowd.  You know, I knew it was going to be this way, so I didn't lose because of this.
 Q. Can you just talk about, as it was your first match, I mean, did you feel physical rest?  Did you start to fatigue faster than you thought you would?  I'm not there.  I don't know how hot or humid it is.  What did you feel playing the match?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   I think it was actually quite humid, but I felt okay, I would say.  I don't know how the third set would be, but I could definitely continue playing for a little while.
 I thought my energy was quite similar from the beginning till the end of the match, so I don't think it would really go down.  At least something is positive on that match.
 Yeah, let's see how I'm going to feel tomorrow, but I think my fitness level, I never really struggle with fitness on the court, so I think it's more different things.  But I think this was fine.
 Q. Going off of the earlier question about the lack of crowds, would you want, for example, to have, you know, your husband and your coaches, you know, jumping out of their seats and creating that energy to support you, or would that be weird and awkward and you don't want that?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   No, I don't want that (smiling).  No, I think it's -- I mean, it's nice if the people are around and they also support, but if it's just them -- and I heard them, so it's not about them, because I know I had the support from my team and from my coaches.  No matter if my husband is there or not, I know.
 And I have to fight, so it's not about the people which I have on my team because I know they are there, but I think somehow it felt a little empty, but as I said, it's nothing that would have really effect on my level of tennis.
 Q. We saw a lot of players decide not to come for this tournament and US Open.  I'm wondering, for you, was it a difficult decision or an easy one to come during the pandemic here to the U.S. to play?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   No, it was not very difficult.  I was quite sure from the beginning that I want to come and play, so I don't know what is the reason of the other people that they didn't come, but I was not thinking about it at all.
 Q. And now, I guess you need to stay there in the bubble until the US Open.  It's a little unusual in your sport.  You guys are used to moving on from one city to another.  What do you imagine it will be like for the next week, sticking around there?  And do you like it because you can practice on these courts and be in this environment that that next tournament is in, or would you rather be able to move on the way you normally do?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   I mean, it's a week.  It's going to be, from now on, it will be a week until US Open, so it's nothing.  We are not talking about couple weeks or a month.
 So I think it's absolutely fine.  I think it's even better that I can practice at the same site on the same courts with the same balls.  Everything is going to be same, so I think it's even better to do it this way.
 I think if I would lose today in Cincinnati, I would move tomorrow.  Anyway, so it would be maybe one day difference of practicing here and from Cincinnati.  I think it's actually better.
 I mean, in this bubble, I'm completely fine with it.  I think everybody is getting a little bit used to it, and I don't see any troubles of being in the bubble or just not leaving this place for a while.  I have been here for one week, and I have no troubles with that.
 Q. There has been some discussion about the court speed and stuff like that and the conditions.  How have you found it practicing and then also in your match?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   I thought it was quite fast since actually the first day I came.  I don't know how other people they think, but I think it's the fastest, like, ever been, these courts.
 I think I have played here couple matches, so I can compare with the years which I have played here.  I don't know what's the reason to make it this fast, but, yeah, there is plenty of time to get used to it, but apparently one week was not enough for me (smiling).
 Q. In terms of having to kind of make those adjustments on a quicker court, is it quick in terms of the ball skidding through the court?  Is the bounce high, low?  How do you define the quickness of the court?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   I think it's just about the speed of the court, and you don't really have that many chances to, like, play long rallies.
 Of course you can still make a rally, but I think it's really like who hits first, and then I think that's one is getting the point.
 It doesn't really bounce high.  I think the serve is quite fast on these courts, which is also of course my advantage, but as I said, starting a little bit with the return, but -- I mean, it's same for everybody, so we have to get used to.  Especially these conditions, it can be quite hot, humid.  So I think it's flying and it's fast, which should be fine, but it was not today.
 Q. You're staying at the hotel, aren't you?  Did you consider at any point staying in private housing the way Djokovic and Serena are doing?  Was it money that prevented you, the way Andy Murray said it?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Not really for the price, which was offered.  Not really thinking about housing for these weeks.
 I mean, I think there is a good service from the hotel.  Anyway, we have to, everybody has to order food, so I don't see any big difference, staying in house or having apartment in the hotel.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT