MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 28, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/M. Lucic-Baroni   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Good match today.  Obviously played her in Australia.  What did you bring in from that match and how do you think you got it done today?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: First of all, I think I played much better here than I was playing there.  Also the condition is different.  I think she was also playing better tennis there because was faster and the conditions a little bit warmer, balls were different.   
So I think just suits her better in Australia.  And even I think she had some chances in the second set and then the third set you never know what can happen, but definitely identification feeling more confident with this match today.   
Yeah, I had some game plan, little bit different one what I had in Australia, and it worked.  So I was just trying to play a little bit more aggressive than I was playing there and even going for my shots even if it's not easy against her because she's playing so aggressive.   
There is not many chances what you can get to play my game what I'm used to play, but, yeah, still I was managed to do some winners and to serve quite good today.   
 Q.  Last couple matches have been more defensive players.  What adjustment did you have to make today to switch from defense to offense?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, really different one.  We were just talking with my coach today that the last match what I was playing against a player like that was Monica Puig in first round in Indian Wells.  It's like similar style, still not that fast I would say, but similar.   
I had few different opponents right now, so happy to have this match as well.  It's important to win even matches like this against those players, because there is few of them as well.   
So, yeah, I had a good warmup today, so I felt like it could be good.   
 Q.  What do you think it says about your game and the improvements that you've been able to make to stay in rhythm against so many different kinds of players over the last few weeks?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I knew how is she playing.  We played few times, and always it's like this.  It's like different tennis and a little bit strange tennis, because you can -- one game you can play good, but there is not much what you can do if she is doing only winners.   
Then she can do few double faults in one game.  There is everything in one match.  I just had to be ready for everything and stay really low in my knees and just trying to put back as many balls as I can.   
She can do the mistakes as well, but I was today more trying to play me than just waiting for the mistake.  That's what I was doing in Melbourne.   
 Q.  You talk a bit about bending your knees and the importance of that throughout the year.  Do you feel like you're getting better that, better at remembering it?  Anything specific you're doing to stay in that during the match?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, during the match it's tough.  I'm obviously practicing it.  I'm doing the strength conditioning fitness a lot.  So it's improving.  I'm feeling better in that position when I'm really down in my knees.   
Still, to move it from the practice to the match, that's the other thing.  So hopefully it can better still with the time, because in practice it's always good.  Almost.  Not always, but almost.  Still in the match it's tough for me.   
So I'm still getting a little bit up.  Hopefully can change soon.   
 Q.  Given the game you had against her in Australia, before you went into this one, did you look back at that in any way and try to learn from anything in particular that you were able to execute today?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I was just saying that in Australia was a little bit different condition, different match than was today.  I was today feeling much better than I was feeling there.  I think I played much better.   
On the other hand, the conditions what were here compared to Australia was better for her there.  Was a little bit faster.  Yeah, she was playing without mistakes almost there and only with winners, and this time she did some double faults.   
I won the first set which helped me, so I was feeling confident.  Even she had some chances in the second one, I still, you know, managed somehow to always puts the service back and return it well so she was still under the pressure.   
I had my chances as well.  I think I was serving pretty well today.  I had about 70 percentage of the first serve, which is probably best this year.  I never had that in a match, this percentage that high.   
So that was also the key of the match, the serve.   
 Q.  When you look at your form at the moment - you won two tournaments; semifinal here; I think you've got the best record in terms matches won of anybody at the moment - are you looking at that No. 1 spot in the rankings and thinking that's something you can get in the next few months?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, not really.  I know there is few people -- or not few, like almost everybody is asking me about this.  Even in Czech media there is still something, that I'm like close, but I don't think I'm that close.  I'm No. 3 and there is like two more, and I think there is like 1000 points, so it's not really like close.   
Obviously with those results what I'm having right now I'm getting there and I'm pushing a little bit on them.  Still, I would have to win a Grand Slam or do something good in Paris or Wimbledon.   
So it's March.  After those three months I know I'm playing good and having a lot of points in these three months what just were, but I don't think it's enough for be No. 1.   
 Q.  People always talk about confidence in this game.  Your confidence with those results must be very good.  Do you feel that affecting your came in a practical sense, that you've got this belief now?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, definitely the confidence in tennis is the most important thing.  So if you feel well, you doesn't always have to play the best tennis, but if you just believe and have that kind of confident you can always win those matches, and that's what I'm having right now.   
So I think these last two match what I had, and even this tournament, is the best definitely this year what I been feeling.  But I was able to win some matches even when I was not feeling the best.  Indian Wells was not really great tennis from my side, but I was still able to win those matches.  That's important thing.   
Yeah, feeling confident now.  Anything can happen in the next semis.  It's last tournament on hard court, so I just want to enjoy it.  I am happy that I'm back in semis.  It's not easy after Indian Wells.  Last year happened that I lost herein first when I was playing semis there, so I'm just happy that I could hold the level from there.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the next match, Caroline or Lucie?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, Lucie obviously I know pretty well.  Will not be something really surprising for me there.  Yeah, we played few times; always tough match.  I won few -- I won last two.  I will be really confident coming into this one.  It's Czech against Czech so anything can happen.  It's a little bit different match than against the other girls.  I was able to go through the one last day, so will give me also a lot of confidence coming into this one.   
Obviously against Caroline, we played in Doha also, so a little bit different conditions than here.  I would expect tough one because I know she has been playing quite good here in last few years.  I didn't see many of her matches here, but we all know I have a coach who was coaching her, so I'll ask her about that match.   
 Q.  Talk about feeling like Indian Wells wasn't necessarily your best tennis.  What do you feel like you've been doing here in Miami to maybe turn that around or maybe get in better rhythm?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't think it's really like for some change.  I didn't change anything much.  Maybe the conditions suited better to me.  There is a little bit wind which I am used to it, and was really different there than it's here.   
My boyfriend is here this time, so -- no, I'm joking.  It's not because of him.   
Yeah, somehow I feel just better this tournament here.  Last year was opposite, so I felt better in Indian Wells than here.  But, yeah, somehow if you manage to go through the first round and I'm improving match for match in this tournament, I'm really enjoying so far.  Didn't lose a set, so far so good.   
 Q.  How are you spending the days off?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, it's tough.  Those days during tournaments you cannot really do much, so still going on site and still practicing.  So there is one day off tomorrow.  I will still be here and I will still practice a little bit.  Not much, but I still have to do some things and still have to move a little bit.   
So, yeah, but depends how I play.  Maybe stay few days after the tournament and enjoy the beach maybe.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT