AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/D. Gavrilova
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. The strapping on your leg, you've been wearing it every match.  Is it a managing thing now?  You don't feel it at all?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I felt little bit.  But on the court was fine.  I just tape it before the match.
I don't like to call the physio, like, during the match.  Just in case it would be getting worse or something, so I tape it.  But it was fine.
Q. Pleased the match didn't go to the third set?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, yeah.  Definitely happy about this because still the match what I've played against Ostapenko took me some power, I would say.  Still with the finishing pretty late here, I went to sleep late.  I felt a little bit tired today, even yesterday.  Definitely happy to be through this one.  Even with a day off what I have tomorrow, it's a good thing, I would say.
Q. How would you rate that performance tonight?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Not best.  But it's a win, so it counts.  But for sure we all know I can play better.
But it was enough.  It was strange match, I would say, even from Dasha.  I think she didn't also play really well today.  The conditions were definitely different compared to the other days, which was much warmer, more humidity, it was faster.  Even with the roof closed, was everything like little bit different, I felt.
Even I didn't feel my game that good, I still think was like solid somehow.  A few serves, I served well a few times, but not as the last match.
Yeah, but like I said, it's a win, so I'm happy about it.
Q. How are the conditions with the roof closed?  You think it's faster?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think it's faster, not only because of the roof.  But also because it's much warmer than was the last days.  Also when I played against Ostapenko, I think was definitely colder than what was today.  I felt like was really fast.
I don't know.  Maybe the court is faster as well.  Maybe with the lights, I just felt it was fast.  Even Dasha is not playing that fast, but still I felt it was fast.
Q. Does that concern you, a fast court, or is it okay with you?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think it's better definitely for me, for the serving and for the game what I play.  Hopefully I'll feel better the next day when I have the match.  So I'll try to prepare a little bit better for it and be more ready.
Q. What do you know about your next opponent, Mirjana?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I know her pretty well.  We played few times.  She beat me I think twice.  I beat her twice, I think.  Not sure about the head-to-head.
But, yeah, definitely I think she's playing really well here.  I didn't see much of her matches.  I saw just the one against Radwanska.  I think she was hitting the ball really well, playing fast.  These conditions probably suit her as well, very good.
So she has to play well when she's in the quarterfinals.  I just going to expect tough match.  I have to be ready.  It's going to be probably fast game, not many rallies.  So I have to be really ready on my legs, serving well.  I think I have good chance, as always.
Q. Do you get the sense that the rest of the locker room sees you a little bit differently these days, whether they're impressed with your game or think you're also part of the elite?  Do you sense that at all in the locker room?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, not really in the locker room, because the girls not really like talk about my form or about these things, so...
But with the people, like, you guys, with the press, or maybe some coaches or some commentators, I feel like they just feel like I have a good chance to win a Grand Slam.  So they talk a little bit in this way.
But not really with the girls.
Q. Do you think it's based on what happened in New York or because you've actually been improving?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think both little bit.  I think definitely the result what I had in US Open was the breakthrough, especially on a Grand Slam.  I think this little bit counts as well.  Also with my form coming this year, with winning the Brisbane, I was really playing well there.  I felt really good there.
So here one match little bit struggling.  Was also important just to get through this one so everything is just, like, somehow going little bit my way.  I'm feeling well actually, even not the best, but well.
So, yeah.
Q. Were you surprised to see Angelique Kerber go out last night?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Actually I was watching just the first set and then I turn it off, the TV.  Well, yeah, I think she had some kind of pressure on herself, not only from the other people but from herself.  She was the defending champion, and she was kind of new in this situation.
So maybe was tough for her because I don't think she really played well this tournament at all when I was watching the tournament.  I think she played better last year.  Yeah, surprised, yes.
Q. How does it feel to make the quarterfinals at a tournament where commentators, media, we were talking about you, as opposed to the US Open where you were maybe a little bit under the radar, you come in with a little bit more pressure and expectation?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I think there's always some kind of pressure on every tournament.  There's something different.  You either have to defend something or you are in shape and you have to prove that you're really in a good shape.  There's always something.
Well, I feel, but I just don't want to think about it that much.  Still, like, these things and this talking doesn't win me the matches.  So I think I still have to play good to win the matches.
Yeah, but I would like to prove that the people who are talking about me, they are not wrong (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT