AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You had the week off.  How are you feeling after Brisbane?  How is the body feeling fitness-wise and all that?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I took just two days off, then I've been practicing here since Tuesday.  Even yesterday.  I had three days off.
But I've been feeling good so far.  Yeah, I was even ready for Monday start, but will be ready even for Tuesday.
Q. How are the courts playing for you?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I was practicing few times on the outside courts, which I think is pretty fast.  Obviously the bigger courts are not that fast, I would say, but still fast.
I like it.  So let's see.
Q. Has your life changed very much in the Czech Republic after being in the US Open final?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Not much.  It was already kind of before the same.  When we won the Fed Cup final, then it changed, I would say.  I don't know how many people are following this tournament in Czech.  But Fed Cup is just the biggest thing in Czech.
So little bit, and now it's still about the same, so...  It's not that bad, but like people recognize me a little bit.
Q. Do you mind that?  Do you care that people recognize you?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't need this, to be honest, no.  I'm fine with that.  I just know it.  It cannot get any other way than this.  But I don't need it, definitely not (smiling).
Q. Has your preparation for Grand Slams changed over the years or is it pretty much the same preparing for the Open, as it was in New York, other slams before that?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I would say this week is similar to New York actually with the playing.  I won Cincinnati, then I would withdraw from New Haven.  I'm trying to be 100% ready, even if I feel something a little bit after that week in Brisbane.  If you're playing well, have a lot of matches, I don't see any reason to play another tournament which is ending Saturday, then you would have to still play on Monday, which I think it's tough, especially in these conditions here in Australia.
That's what I did in New York, as well.  So I just did it here.
I don't know if it's going to worked.  But I just want to leave everything in this tournament, in this Grand Slam.  For me the main goals are Grand Slams.  So I want to be ready for it.
Q. Which Grand Slam do you think you have the best chance to win?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I should now say US Open because I was in the final there.  But, yeah, I think I have chance little bit everywhere.  It's smallest I would say obviously the clay, French Open.
Q. Do you consider yourself as one of the favorites to win this year, after winning Brisbane and playing so well over there?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I would definitely not take me as a favorite of this tournament.  It's a big draw.  There is a lot of players.  I just take it step by step.
I just know my opponent from the first round.  I want to pass this one.  Then we can talk about the next one.
There is still I think many more players better than me.  I guess everyone is in shape and everyone is excited to play this Grand Slam.  It's the first Grand Slam of the year.  Everyone was working hard in the off-season, so it's tough to say.  We will just see after few rounds here.
Q. You just got a new coach.  What do you want from a coach?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I just want him to believe in me and just to prepare me for the tournament which I want to play the best tennis, which are all the Grand Slams, like I said.  Just to be ready and give me the advices which I need, just to know little bit about me, my game.  I want him to go the way where I want to go.  We both decided we definitely want to play aggressive tennis.  He's just pushing me this way, to be better player than I am now.
Q. What do you like from on-court coaching?  How can he help?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: So far with my new coach I did it just once in Brisbane.  Was not that needed there.  So let's see in the next tournaments.
But, yeah, it's more about maybe tactics, what to play.  Obviously you call coach when you are losing, it's about the same.  He sees it definitely different from the place where he's sitting than me on the court.  Maybe he can just give me few advices, what to play, what not to play, where she's better or not.  Also little bit to motivate.
You have one minute.  You cannot say much.
Q. What's the primary memory you have when you won the junior title here?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: It's seven years now, so...  I still remember, of course I do.  But, yeah, it was my first Grand Slam what I've played.  So obviously the final, what I was playing on Rod Laver, it was huge for me.  I was small and scared, and then I won.  So was a big thing, first big result what I ever had.
Q. What do you make the vibe of the Melbourne?  You did so well at the US Open.  That's a tournament that's very New York.  It's crowded, loud, hot, traffic.  Melbourne is very different from that.  Does this environment suit you during your off time?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I would say this is little bit better place for me than New York.  But I don't want to compare.  Every city is different.  Here you have time.  Doesn't take you one hour to get to the hotel, which is nice.  Even the weather I would say it's quite similar.  Can be colder.  Can be also more hot here.
Yeah, every Grand Slam is different.  I think this can be the place where I can play my best tennis as well, because the courts suit me.  The weather as well, the balls as well.  Why not here?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT