BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 7, 2017
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/A. Cornet
6-0, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Did that feel as dominating as it looked from outside?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: First set, yes.  But then I think I took off my speed a little bit somehow and was more relaxed.
Was closer, definitely, but still two breaks and 6-3, so I was feeling comfortable on my serve, even though there were few tougher games than in the first.  I was just expecting it was not going to be that easy like it was in the first.  I didn't miss almost whole set in the first set.  Yeah, I was feeling pretty good today.
Q. She said it was very hard to read your ball toss.  She didn't know where you were going to serve it.  When did you really start to hone that serve?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, I have been trying to have one toss for all serves so the opponent doesn't knows where I serve.
I mean, that's a big advantage, that they are guessing somehow the sides.  And I have been seeing them, that she's been moving right and left, and few times I have been just serving the other side where she was actually moving.
So that's why I did a lot of points from the first serve.  Still, I think the serve wasn't the best today, especially the second set I be missing first serve.  I think even from the baseline was okay, but definitely the first set was the serve better.
Q. Speaking of your serve, is there a percentage number that you consider, when you look at the stats sheet after your matches, to say, Okay, I served well today?  Or do you just think -- is it by feel?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I still have some feelings about the serve, but then when I look at the percentage -- I mean, it's not good at all, like, I mean, all of the matches, but the second still improve.  I still have some aces, but the percentage is not always good.
But, yeah, when I look at it, when it's over 60 or, let's say, over 55, most of the time I win the matches.
So that's just, for me, just to look on the percentage is important, and I just need to improve this, because once the serve is going in, doesn't have to be ace.  I just have a lot more easy points from the serve, and then I can, you know, even play more aggressive on the return.  That's the main goal for me in the service games.
Q. Based on tonight's match, would you prefer the Australian Open to start tomorrow rather than waiting another week?  You look like you're in the right form and ready to go into a Grand Slam.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, not, because I have been practicing ten days in a row with the matches here, so since I came, I didn't have really a day off.  Even I had some day off during the tournament, but it's not really day off.  You still have to go and practice.
So I think at least one day off would be good for me and then just prepare for Australian Open.  I would not want to start for tomorrow (smiling).
Q. Playing Sydney?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I will.
Q. Alize said on court, and there is talk in the media room, it's almost inevitable you will win a slam.  Is that something you set yourself out for this year?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, everyone is saying that, but it's not that easy.  Definitely I'm going to try, but let's see.  I still have to work on my serve and a few things.
It's not that easy to win.  I would not say it's easy to win a tournament, but there are still two more matches more than in normal tournaments, so you still have to be ready for everything.
And there's going to be harder opponent than I had this week, so, yeah, it would be long.  I already knew I had that experience to stay till the last day there, so, yeah, I think I have a good chance, but I still have to believe in myself, work on myself.  Yeah, let's see.
Also, important thing is I think the draw for me.  So I need just kind of have some players which I like, which is also important on Grand Slam to just have a little bit luck with the draw.  But, I mean, anything is possible.  So let's see.
Q. When you look on the names on that trophy, how does that make you feel?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I'm not there yet.  (Laughter.)
Yeah, I have been checking the names when I'm walking into the locker room.  There is the winners, obviously, pictures there.  So I knew who won.
Of course, I knew Petra won with my coach now in 2011, so it's going to be nice to be there, as well.
Q. Two Czech champions this weekend, you and Siniakova in Shenzhen won.  Even without Petra on tour, looks like the Czechs are still going to go strong into the Oz Open.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, definitely good week for Czech, winning two titles, I think.  Other players are doing pretty good, as well.  Tomas was in semis.  Few players in quarters.  I think we have really strong team, especially in girls, but boys been doing well, as well.
Yeah, definitely.  I think that's what I have been saying every week on Fed Cup, that if someone is injured from the top players, we still have some other players.  So it's not only about one or two players in our country, but we have more.
Q. First title with your new coach.  Does he deserve a pay raise yet?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I was saying, Come on, this start, now it can be only worse.  (Laughter.)
Let's see.  It's tough to say.  I think he definitely help me with few things, but just everything so quick, that obviously -- I think I can still play better than I was playing this tournament, but it was enough for every match here.
We have been working on few things in the last month when I was in preparation at home.  So he's just show me new stuff what I was not able to do before, so so far working.  Let's hope we can still improve, and let's hope this is not the best result what we gonna have.
Q. You mentioned Petra.  What she had been through, have you kept in contact with her?  Does this win mean a little bit more now that you join her on the winners list?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, it's always nice to have some winners from Czech in past.  Of course, there was she and I think Radek, they won this tournament.  It's always good to have someone from Czech on the list here.
But I have been not talking to her at all last few days.  Well, actually last few weeks.  So I don't know much about her.  I don't know how she -- the newspapers, they didn't write anything.  So I don't know much about the thing what happened about her, but yeah, hopefully she's gonna be back soon.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT