QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 25, 2020
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/B. Pera   
6-3, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Did you expect such an easy win first round?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I didn't, but it went kind of this way. I think the beginning was a little bit tough, we both played well, there were a couple tough, long games, but then somehow it turned to be quite easy, especially the second set, she was missing a lot. But she's maybe loss her rhythm a little bit, I thought I was serving well, playing quite fast, so that can happen, I think.   
 Q.  And with such a good start in any tournament, how do you see yourself progressing? Does it make you a little more complacent or do you still feel you still keep up the momentum? Do you take it a little easy because you had an easy start?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well easy start doesn't mean anything. So tomorrow we start from zero and there is different opponent, definitely a tough one. It can be Jabeur, which I played last time sets went to third and so definitely I'm not counting that it's going to be easy.   
But, yeah, I was feeling great today so I think it's a good start, positive, definitely, to take those things which are working from today to tomorrow and then whatever is going to happen is going to happen.   
 Q.  And can you just talk a little bit about Jabeur. She's had such a great run recently and you can be facing her next, especially here in Doha, what do you think that would be like? What would you do?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I think she improved. Definitely I think she's working harder than she was. And she has good hands, she has a little bit different game than pretty much all the opponents. I think she can be tricky for everybody, you don't really have nice rhythm with her, so I think that is why she is tough. And of course great feeling, she can play so many good drop shots and slices, so everything possible, really, she can play.   
But let's see. She's just up a set, so maybe she can still lose. But of course I saw also a little bit last week she was playing well against Simona, so, yeah, I think she's a tough one.   
 Q.  What do you feel about the rest of the field, some of the players have gone, some of the top players have -- do you still think it's open, anybody can win or do you think that there are a few favorites still?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, so far I think there is probably all the top players that are in the draw, maybe except one. So I think it's not that bad. I think sometimes it's happening much worse and much earlier the players are leaving. But I think that's how it is right now, so, no sense to still discuss about this.   
But I think there is always an opponent, so doesn't matter if she's seeded or top 10 or top 20 she still, I need to beat her. So for me it doesn't matter who is really there and I don't really see the draw and check if seeded players are winning or losing because it's not my business.   
 Q.  Today is 1,000 days until the football World Cup. Are you a football fan and just more generally how do you feel about Qatar as a sports hosting nation, how much do you feel welcome and how is the tournament experience for you here?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: My husband is working in soccer, so I know a little bit, not much, and I don't really follow that much. But here and there I see some, the top matches I see. I went to couple matches, but overall not really football fan.   
But I think it's a great hospitality here. It's a great city, so I'm sure they're going to do a great job and the tournament for them is going to be amazing.   
 Q.  Just to follow-up. In terms of inspiring the next generation of young tennis players from Qatar as well, how much do you feel you can contribute to that on a yearly basis here?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I see so many kids around here. Every year I pretty much do a clinic with the kids. So definitely good to see so many kids around, just trying to play tennis, no matter which level, I think it's just important to do sport.   
And also they can speak English, so I can feel they really try to just, you know, no matter which level, but they just try to play so which I think for, overall for the kids is amazing and of course I would always support that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT