DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 25, 2016
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How does your body feel and how does your game feel coming into this final stretch of the season?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, now I feel better than the last week in Tokyo.  That was a little bit tough for me because I didn't practice much.  I had that tough month in States.   
Now I feel better.  I practiced few days.  Excited for next tournament.  Physically I feel fine.  I don't have any injuries.  So hopefully the last two tournaments in Asia is going to be better.   
 Q.  How much time did you take after the US Open?  How long did it take for everything to sink in, what you did in Cincinnati and the US Open?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I was home about five, six days.  I just took off about four days.  I just, you know, saw my family, enjoyed a little bit the time home.  Obviously I had some media stuff to do, as well.   
Then I went to Tokyo, where it was raining the whole week.  I didn't have a chance to practice much there.  So I just came earlier here and practiced two days.  Everything is back and set and I'm ready to play a tournament again.   
 Q.  Was it maybe a bit tough mentally to go back on court, it's starting again, thinking all you have to do during tournaments, after playing a Grand Slam final?  Is there a motivation moment where you thought, I don't want to be here right now?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I had it little bit in Tokyo, but it was because I wasn't almost home, it was fast.  But there was no other choice.  I just entered Tokyo.  I didn't know before when I'm entering I was going to play that good in States.  There was no other way how to do it.   
Now, like I said, I feel fine, ready for next tournaments.  I still have some goals for this year.  I'm still not done yet.  I'll just try to do my best.   
 Q.  What did you experience from your first Grand Slam final?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I didn't pass third round yet ever on any Grand Slam.  Every match was huge for me.  Big wins there.  Obviously beating both sisters Williams was huge.  And to playing the final against new world No. 1, Angie, was amazing experience.  I just took a lot from it.  I learn a lot also from the lose, just trying to take it to the next Grand Slams.   
 Q.  How much did you think about the final when you were at home, on the plane?  Did you play it over in your head at all?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I didn't.  I mean, obviously there were still people around me who were still talking about those tournaments, what I've played in States, and still they wanted to know more.  Like I said, media.   
I just finished with US Open because I have other tournaments.  I don't want to keep thinking on this one because here it's starting from zero.  Everyone is ready.  Everyone is going to play best tennis here.  I just have to be ready for that.   
Even I played some good tennis there, doesn't mean I'm going to play it here.  I want to be ready for anything here.  Even if it's not going my way, I'll do my best, as always.   
 Q.  Last year you made the final in Zhuhai.  This year you have an opportunity to qualify for Singapore.  How much of that is a goal?  When did you start to think Singapore might be a possibility this year?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Last year was totally different compared to this year.  The whole year I was actually on the Road to Singapore.  The last three or four tournaments, actually even US Open, decided that I was out.  Pretty close, but I couldn't make it there.   
I went to Zhuhai.  I was pretty happy to get to at least that high.  This year I was really out, far from the Road to Singapore.  Those two or three weeks in States changed it pretty much.   
Yeah, I think I have a good chance, but still I'm not going to think about it that much.  It's obviously my goal for this year to get there, but I still have to win some matches and do some points.   
 Q.  With Angie being No. 1, she's a player that you've beaten, a player that you've played very tight matches with.  Does it seem closer to be No. 1 because it's a player you've beaten before?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, for me didn't change anything if it's Serena or she.  There is still somebody else than me.  There's still some players in front of me, not only she, a few more.  This is not my goal till next years.  I said I would like to win a Grand Slam next, then to become world No. 1.   
But obviously when it's a girl at No. 1, you know you beat her a few times, it's a big chance to get there, as well.   
 Q.  It's a tough match against a left-handed player.  Safarova will be your next opponent.  Will you do some practice against left-handed players, on the serve or something?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I will not do anything special.  Actually I practiced with Lucie yesterday.  That should be enough for me.  I know her a lot.  We practice a lot of times.  We played few matches already.  I just have to be ready.   
She's a dangerous player.  It's going to be really close match.  I have to be ready for it.   
Obviously the lefty serve is tricky always.  But if I have a chance to just warm up tomorrow with some girl which is playing with left hand, I'll do that, but nothing more special.   
 Q.  I was wondering if you heard about the suggested changes by the ITF to the Fed Cup, to have a neutral venue for the final.  Did you hear about that?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I heard something.  It was in Czech newspapers, as well.   
 Q.  What is your opinion about having a neutral ground for a final and maybe shortening the format?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, to be honest, I think it's I don't want to say stupid, but yeah.  For me it looks stupid because there is always the chance that it's in one country, and always the fans and everything can be on one side.   
I mean, if, for example, Czech and France, we play in Russia, I don't see any reason why we would go there.  Of course, with the people there, there would not be any fans.  And the sponsors...   
For me doesn't make any sense, but let's see.   
 Q.  Talking about Fed Cup, have you made yourself already available to play the final in France or do you think the schedule is going to be packed enough?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, there is still few more weeks in front of me.  Right now I'm ready to play.  I hope to be in the team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT