U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2016
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/A. Pavlyuchenkova
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You said you wanted to take it one match at a time, not think too much about what was at stake in this match.  To be in your first Grand Slam second week, what does that mean to you?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, definitely was always my goal.  So really happy that I got there.  I was trying to get there for a long time.  Still probably wasn't meant to be.  So happy to be there, especially at the US Open, especially on hard court, which is my best surface.
I'm also really happy with the game, how I got through.
Q. In years past when you weren't able to get past the first week, was that just because of draws or injuries as opposed to now?  What do you think is the difference between the slams that you played before where you fell a little bit short this year?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I would also say it depends a lot on the draw.  You can have players which you don't like, which didn't happen for me this time.  I knew, especially today, I beat her three times, so I was confident about this match.  I also knew I've been playing some good tennis last few weeks, all the matches actually what I've played.
So I felt good.  There was not any reason for me to think about it, that I will lose this match today.  So I was confident about it.  Just happy that also on the court I could handle the situations 'cause, you know, it's not always easy.  First time to get through to the third round.
In the end of the second set she also improved a lot.  I was not feeling tight, but the game wasn't like in the first set.
Q. Was it something you'd been thinking about or unfairly criticized for?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, not really.  I still believe, even if it would be 5-All in the second, that I can beat her because, like I said, I beat her few times already.  Always was two sets.
But in tennis anything can happen and not decided till the last point and playing the best tennis.  I was prepared for everything.  Even though I lost the serve there, was a little bit unlucky 4-2, 40-15 that game, then she played quite a good game.  Was a little bit windy out there.  It wasn't easy.  I didn't serve well that game.  But I stayed in the game and I breaked her with Love in the game.  It gave me a lot of confidence, that game.
Q. Is it fair to say that this is the most confident that you've come into a Grand Slam or have you been just as confident in the past?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, probably, yes.  So far now, I can say.
To be honest, the Grand Slams before, I wasn't feeling bad, any of them.  But just somehow the game on the court wasn't the way I wanted it to be.  I was just a little bit tight, I wasn't playing my tennis, wasn't aggressive enough.  If I'm not playing my game, I cannot beat those players like this.  I cannot be the one who is running.  It was like this before in the Grand Slams.
I happy I keep my game plan and was still playing aggressive today.
Q. You mentioned you're going to watch this next match.  Are you going back to the hotel or stay here?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: They're playing at 7:00.  Nice atmosphere on the center court.  Tomorrow I have only doubles, so I'll prepare also for the doubles which is important for me.  I don't have to go to sleep that early.  So maybe I'll stay for a few more games.
Q. You might play Venus.  Do you remember watching Venus when you were younger before you started playing tennis?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Definitely I remember both sisters, Williams.  We were watching on TV.
Q. That final in Zhuhai was a tough one.  What do you take out of that match against Venus, if you play her?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: It's not that far what we played.  I remember the match.  Was pretty good match from I think both of us.  She was playing really good tennis there.
Obviously with her it's tough.  If she's playing I think good that day, then it's tough.  She's serving pretty well both serves, playing aggressive on the return.  There is not much to do.
I just have to serve well.  That's the most important thing.
Q. How are you feeling physically at this point in the tournament?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I feel good.  I didn't play three sets yet.  Every day I have a match not more than an hour and a half.  So I feel fine.
Q. What do you think doubles is bringing to your game when you have the off days and have to come back and play doubles?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: For me it's better than practice, to be honest.  Sometimes those days off, you feel like you have a day off so you don't want to really move.  It's still a match, so it's better for me to play a match.
Especially playing doubles, I'm playing with someone who I know, I'm having fun on the court.  For me it's definitely better to be in the doubles.
Q. You're known as a good server.  What are the keys to serving well?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: There is lot of keys.  I don't know which the other players has, but I'm always trying to stay calm and concentrate on the serve.  Especially when it's a long game, long rallies, you just have to breathe and stay calm before the serve.
Q. Obviously it's been a busy tournament because you are in both singles and doubles.  Have you had time to unwind, to not think about tennis or pick up a racquet?  What have you been doing to relax?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Since I'm in the tournament, I didn't go anywhere, to the city.  Just few nice dinners close to the hotel.
It's tough here.  Every day, if you have a match, you're coming back late from here because it's, like, one hour with the traffic.  It's not easy to get somewhere.  I have been here a few days before the tournament.  I see something.  We did some obviously shopping.  I went to a musical on Broadway.  I had nice few days before the tournament.
Q. Which musical?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Chicago.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT