WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 20, 2016
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/G. Muguruza   
6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  She was struggling a bit with her second serve today.  You were really on top of it.  Attacking that.  You won the majority of points on her second serve.  Was that a game plan, for you to be more aggressive, or more of her struggling with respect to the that second serve?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, yeah, definitely I know I serve -- I think she's playing a similar game as I am, so I knew have to be the first one who is attacking the ball and trying to make her move a little bit more.   
That's what I did.  I think she didn't handle the wind today that good, so that's why she did some double faults and not many first serves.   
So I'm really happy with the wind, how I handle it, because the conditions were not as the whole week here.  So was a little bit different.  So happy with the way how I closed the match.   
 Q.  You sense this sort of result coming?  It hasn't been a strong a year for you as last year, but this is a big final you're into now.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah.  I would say, yeah.  Everyone is saying I didn't have that good year as last year, but I didn't have that big matches as I played, semifinal in Indian Wells and now this final.  I would say it's maybe better than what I played last year, the few finals on the small tournament.   
So this one really counts, and I'm really happy to be in final.  There always is a good chance in the final for win the tournament, so I'll do anything for that.  I just don't want to think about I'm winning the title or something like this.   
So far it's a good tournament for me, so I'm enjoying that.  I'm still in the draw and, like I said, do anything for the win tomorrow.   
 Q.  Have you felt fresher than your opponents this week who were in Rio?  Have you felt more energy or fresher?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, definitely.  Definitely yes.  I was thinking about if to go to Rio or not, and there were more things why I decided to not go, I think it was a good step for me.   
Last year I played a lot of tournaments, and in the end of the US Open I felt really tired.  I just want to prepare for the big tournaments better than I did last year.   
 Q.  She won the first game and then you won seven in a row.  How did that feel?  Were you just putting your foot on the gas there or was it more letting her make the mistakes in the wind?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I mean, the first game, let's say I gave it to her.  I missed four returns.  It wasn't really about her game.  I just tried to play aggressive from the first game to the last one.   
Like I said, with the wind it wasn't really easy.  I didn't play how I would love to play.  I think yesterday I played little bit better, but always different.   
So I was happy with the way how I played or tried to be aggressive.  I think she had little bit trouble with my game.  Maybe too fast for her, and with the wind together was just not her day probably.   
 Q.  You were really on top of it.  A set and a half up and yet you still called for your coach midway through the second set.  Why did you do that?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, because the first set was really quick.  I did six games in a row, so I knew it's not going to be like this the second set as well.   
I just want to hear a few words from him if it's like fine or maybe he see something else from the crowd.  But everything was fine.  I just lost my serve once.  I did few mistakes there.  Also she played some good shots.   
All good; 61, 6-3; not that bad result.   
 Q.  You were serving for the match.  What were you thinking and were you also thinking about the rain?  When the match finished like a minute later it started raining.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, actually not.  I didn't look at the sky at all.  I didn't know something was coming.  Maybe was better.  I just tried to close the match and didn't think about anything else.   
Even if I would not close it and will be raining, still I would be 5-4, so, and still break her few times in this match.  I was just ready for anything.   
 Q.  You're playing singles and doubles consistently.  How much do you think that doubles play is helping add dimension to your singles tools and your confidence coming in?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, I love to play doubles.  Now since I have a partner which is playing with me Julia Goerges, every tournament, is different than if you are changing ever tournament.  So I always enjoy the doubles.   
I think it can really help into the singles.  It's for me definitely better than practice and you have lot of serves return, so it can really improve few stuff.  Volleys, which I don't have a chance to improve during the tournament, I can improve it in the doubles.   
So since I feel physically fine and I don't have any injuries, I'm always for to play the doubles.   
 Q.  You said you changed your schedule after last year playing too many tournaments.  What else did you learn from your first year on tour, your life on tour, that you changed this year?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, that was one of the things what I changed, to don't play everything what it possible.  To get ready for some events.  I think now, at this time, not always, but it pays off.   
Yeah, that's what I learn.  Last year was amazing for me and I just went so quick up.  This year is a little bit different.  It's harder and I have to defend a lot of points.  So the worst I have behind me I would say.   
Just this year still there is few tournaments to go, so I will do anything for to do as many points as I can and then get ready for the next year.   
 Q.  As someone who can't relate to having long legs and long arms, is there something that you do in your training with your fitness coach?  Because it does affect you.  You have to get down lower.  Is there anything you do to work on...  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I mean, you have to work different with me than you work with --  -- I mean, those two girls, Angie and Simona.  That's for sure.   
Still, we have some goals, and the one what you said is to get lower in the knees, which I'm struggling my whole life.  But it's slowly getting better.   
With the arms I don't have that big problems as with the legs.  Yeah, let's see if I can still improve in this.  I believe yes.  I believe I can still improve also in the matches with the movement.   
 Q.  Both of your next opponents are powerful hitters.  In terms of having to absorb pace and use it to your advantage, what's your strategy?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I played both of them.  Like I said, I beat both of them; I lost to both of them.  There is everything possible.  I'm ready for -- doesn't matter who wins, I'm going to be ready.  I maybe watch a little bit, but it's tough.  They have both different game than I have.  They are both more defensive players.   
So still the same for me.  I have to be the first one who's dictating the game.  I cannot be the one who's running.  The pressure has to be on them.  I believe I can beat both of them.   
 Q.  There are a couple courts at Indian Wells that have Hawk-Eye-type technology with cameras.  Have you ever used anything like that to look at data of your practices?  Do you think that could be useful?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: What can be useful?   
 Q.  Like there are courts in Indian Wells that have technology with cameras and things.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, not really.   
 Q.  Do you think something like that can be useful?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Could be.  I didn't use it yet and I don't even think about to use it in the future.  Maybe if it's on more tournaments then maybe I will think about it.  I didn't use it yet so I don't know much about it.   
 Q.  You led the head-to-head against Garby and now you get another win.  Since the last time you played her to now she's won the French Open.  Does it mean more to you now that you beat here and now she's a French Open champion, or the same as a year ago, a quality player that you get a win over?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: To be honest, one year ago we both were a little bit different players.  I think we both improved a lot.  She of course made some good results on the Grand Slams.  She won the French Open.   
But you cannot be thinking about that you are playing against someone who won a French Open.  It's different surface.  Everything is different.  My game is different than, I don't know, Serena and the rest what she beat in the French Open.   
I know I beat her in the last two matches, so I knew it's going to be tough for her to beat me if I play well or if I play solid.  Yeah, I was not thinking about that she's a French Open champion.  This you cannot take on the court.   
 Q.  And getting a win like that, though, does that make you believe any more that you can win a Grand Slam, or it's just another...  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, I always believe, and I believe I can -- there is I would say 99% of the players I can beat all of them if I play good tennis.  But it's not always.   
Yeah, but with this victory, even it was a little bit easier than I was expecting, I believe I can win a big tournaments and even slams later in my life.   
 Q.  If you play Angie in the final she'll be going for No. 1.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I know it.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  What do you think that might like?  That's a sort of different.  We haven't had that in a long time.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, no.  For me doesn't really means anything; for her, yes.   
I don't know if she would be a little bit in stress or something, but I would love to have her as a No. 1 after few years.  But I'll do anything for her to not getting there.  If she wins.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT