AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 25, 2016
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. CIBULKOVA/K. Pliskova   
7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Pretty close, wasn't it?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yes.  Well, I didn't do a set, but I think I had a lot of chances even in the first and even in the second set.   
But on the other hand she was playing really well even in the wind.  For me was more tough because of the serving and everything.  But she was playing aggressive and without almost mistakes.  So she deserved to win.   
 Q.  How tough is it to find the rhythm of the serve on such a gusty day?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, it was probably the biggest mistake from my side, the serving, because I didn't do many, not aces, but not many free points from the serve, which I need sometimes and especially against her.  She's hitting so big from the baseline, and, like I said, almost without mistakes.  That's why it's tough.   
I need those few points in those sets, the free points from the serve, which didn't happen.  Obviously I did some even double faults, so this cannot happen.  It was just so windy.  The second set was better.  I was on, what I saw the statistics, I was 80% of the first serve the second set and I still lost.   
She was playing some good tennis.  Me, I was playing so-so, sometimes good, sometimes bad.  But she didn't let me to play my game.  She was playing aggressive and going to my serves.   
Like I said, she was just a little bit better.  I think I had a lot of chances.  I didn't play that bad in those chances what I had some break points.   
Then obviously in the first set I was serving 4-3, new balls.  That was probably the biggest mistake.   
 Q.  It's been a lot of tennis for you.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Nottingham title all the way to the doubles, including indoors, as well.  You have really had a lot of good time on the grass and you're playing on Monday.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Just how tired do you feel right now?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, it's different if you are winning and if you are doing well.  I don't feel that tired like if you are practicing and losing.  So I just feel ready.  I have one more day to rest.  So we do -- I have to go practice tomorrow, unfortunately.   
Yeah, I feel fine.  I don't have any injuries so far, so everything is going well.  And the results I think it can even help me to play better in Wimbledon.   
 Q.  What do you think are the biggest positives you can take from this tournament?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Definitely I would say it's the matches, the closest ones what I won.  It gave me a lot of confidence, and I feel confident right now.  The clay season wasn't that good for me, so I feel much better now.   
Even the matches what I lost, both of them, the singles with Strycova in Birmingham and this one was close and against good players.  It can happen and I still think I played good tennis.  I didn't win those two but, yeah.  I have a title, a title from doubles and another final.  Just happy with the way I played this year the tournaments before Wimbledon.   
 Q.  How far do you think you can go?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't know.  (Laughter.)   
No, I just have to say, because of course I'm feeling a little bit tired so just have to do the first step to win the first round, and then everything is open.  I think I can play a good game.  I don't even know who is there in the draw on my side.  I don't want to know, so don't tell me.   
 Q.  When will you know?  When do you let yourself know that?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: After I win the first round I will check the next round.  I don't want to look any further.   
Yeah, the important step is the first round for me.   
 Q.  When you lose a close match like today, do you think there is anything you could do differently to change the way the result went?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yes, of course.  And especially when I had some chances on my serve.  So, I mean, you can always do better and you can always change something.  But I know it after the match.  So in the match I'm trying to do my best.  It just wasn't enough today.   
But like I said, it was the chance for 4-3 and even the second game when I break her first game, I had three double faults.  This cannot happen.  So that was the worst thing.  And then still I had chances, but in this weather it's tough conditions for me.  Like I said, for my serve, it's not really good this wind.  So she just handled it a little bit better.   
 Q.  You talked about statistics and you said you had had a look at them.  How important are they to you after a match, and how much do you like to use them going forward, if at all?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Statistics?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I always look, even if I win, even if I lose just to see.  Of course, the main thing for me is to see the serve how many percentage I was, how many aces, how many double faults.  That's the main thing for me.  That's the first thing I'm checking.   
Also the break points.  Sometimes the match is close.  But in the second set I didn't break her but I think I had like eight, seven, I don't know, break points.  So it could be other way as well.   
 Q.  And the break points in the first set...  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah.  So it just -- yeah, it could be both way.  In the statistics you can see was like very close match even if it was two sets.   
 Q.  Grass is one of the surfaces where moving is a bit tricky at times.  Some of the players have said that when you slip on grass then it gets to your mind.  You had quite a fall in the first set.  How do you mentally get this out and keep doing what you're doing?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I wasn't thinking about this fall at all.  And I almost win the rally, actually.  (Smiling.)   
Yeah, it can happen.  Sometimes it can be slippery so it can happen to anyone.  I think all the tournaments there are some players which are falling, so you just have to quickly forget it and play the next point.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT