BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2016
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/D. Kasatkina   
6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Quite a back to back day.  Can you talk about not just the singles but also coming back and getting into the doubles finals?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: First of all, I was really happy with the way I played the singles.  I think it was one of the best matches what I played here so far.   
So it even was quick, so I just had an hour between singles and doubles.  I just wanted to get ready for the doubles.   
Just happy also for the doubles, because it's one of the biggest tournaments in the world, so every result here is important.  It's my first biggest final in the doubles, and especially happy to be there with my partner Julia.   
 Q.  How good does it feel to get the singles result?  Obviously you got top 10 last year; rankings slipped a bit this year.  But to get into a big semifinal must feel really good still early in the season.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I had the feeling before the tournament I need few matches in a row because I lost twice in the first round, so just happy that I have now a few under my belt.   
Especially like it's important during this year in the next tournaments that I have few matches behind me.  I think I played some good tennis this week, and especially there is Miami, and so I have chances to go and improve the ranking and get close to top 10 again.   
 Q.  She didn't seem to have an answer for your first serve today, even though you didn't hit a high percentage.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I know.  I'm a little bit struggling with the high percentage, but at least the aces were there this time.   
Like I said, I was a little bit struggling with the first serve in the last singles match and even a little bit in the doubles.  We went to practice serve yesterday evening, so I'm just happy that it was much better today.   
 Q.  You have been playing at a high quality, breaking into the top 10, but once you broke the top 10, has it changed a lot or do you still go under the radar?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Personally I didn't feel it much, but the people are of course talking a little bit more about it because it's a big thing and especially in Czech we were three girls in top 10.  It was quite a big thing.   
On the other hand, it was always my goal to get to top 10, so I was just happy that I made it.  But obviously I want to stay in the top 10 for a while, and not only for a few weeks.  I will do anything for get back there.   
 Q.  Are you just planning to stay in the top 10 or planning to get to the top 5?  This is a pretty high level you are a playing.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, definitely first top 5, it's a different level than I would say top 10.  First goal now is to get to top 10 because I'm even out of the top 15.   
I just don't care about the first top 5 now, but I just want to go back to top 10.   
 Q.  What do you expect from the semifinal, Rybarikova or Azarenka?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I know both players.  I beat -- I even beat Victoria.  I'm pretty sure that will be a very tough match for Magdalena.  I will watch a bit.  Like I said, Magdalena is playing tricky - slice from the backhand and kick from the serve, so not usual for a girl.   
But I believe Victoria, she's playing high level right now, so it's going to be really close match probably.  But I just get ready.  It's tomorrow night, the semis, so I have a few hours to rest.   
 Q.  What do you remember about the match you two had in Brisbane last year, you and Vika?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I remember.  I saw it few times already because I thought it was a really good match.  I was down match point so I almost lost this match, but in the end I won.  Was a big fight and big match, and especially was the first match of the season.   
So it was a big thing for me, big win, so I will remember this one.  I just hope if I play her I play the same level as I played.   
 Q.  Doubles finals.  I'm not sure who you play.  
THE MODERATOR: Second semifinals are playing this afternoon.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on that?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, first of all, just concentrating on the singles; day off from doubles tomorrow.  Obviously we don't have the opponents yet.  We are still playing the semis today.   
Maybe my partner, she's watching the doubles now more than me, so she's gonna tell me what to do.  (Smiling.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT