HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 7, 2015
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. PLISKOVA/E. Svitolina
  6‑3, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. Tennis is pretty easy when you're serving as well as you were today. So how pleased were you with this effort, and especially to get it done in two sets, quick on and off?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, it just looks like it's easy. It's not really easy. Yeah, happy with the way how I play today. Everything was working pretty well. Solid from the baseline. Serve was good.   
So, yeah, I think important was the beginning where there were like three close games and I just stayed there and I make the first break which was important, and then everything was like slowly going. Even it was 6‑3, 6‑1 it wasn't that easy.   
She's also playing pretty well and defending. But I had already two players in my group which are playing pretty well and defending, so I was used to that.  
Before this match I played her in Wuhan and I knew what to expect. Yeah, happy with the win.   
   
 Q. (Through translation.) First of all, congratulations to move to the finals. I know you were born in 1992 and your opponent in finals will be Venus Williams, and she's more than ten years older than you. What's your expectation for the final?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Thank you. I never played her, so really excited to play her. There is not much girls which I didn't play on the tour, so I'm going to really enjoy this match.  
Final anything can happen, so I'll just enjoy. I think I had so far a good week. Even if I lose the final I'm not going to be disappointed, but I will do anything for that, to play good and try to win the final.   
   
 Q. Elina, you've played her before. Played each other in juniors, all that sort of thing. Is the mentality for you when you play against a player who is of your generation different than when you play a player that's older or more accomplished?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Not really. I'm not really thinking about it this way. On the court you just have to take it like a normal match and not that she's younger. I think also it's the big difference when I know I played her and I won two times already.  
So I know I have a game and that I can beat her. It is different if I'm going to play someone and I know I didn't‑‑ let's say Aga I didn't beat ever, so it's a little bit different feeling on the court.   
Yeah, Venus, she's more experienced probably than everyone on the tour, so it's going to be tough in every way. I'm just going to enjoy and maybe learn something from the match. (Smiling.)  
   
 Q. I know you said if you lose tomorrow no big deal, but there is quite a bit at stake. Based off of your performance in finals this year, this could be quite a breakthrough for you. If you do win, what would it mean to you to win this title tomorrow?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, it would be huge because my second part of the year wasn't this good like I was expected. I don't want to say it was bad, but it just was expecting a little bit more.  
End of the season everyone is tired. I was tired as well before this tournament. Here I'm feeling pretty well, so it will be really nice end of the season.  
But there is one more step to go, so we will see after tomorrow. I will tell you then. (Smiling.)  
   
 Q. This year you have played four tournaments in China. Do you feel any difference between the cities or just all China?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: You know, every city is probably different, even if you are in China. I'm not the type of girl which is going every week to do some sightseeing, so I don't know much about the cities. Obviously I know the club and the hotel all the time.  
Yeah, I'm feeling great in Asia and I love all the tournaments in Japan, China, everywhere. I'm always looking forward to come back.   
   
 Q. There are a lot of players who struggle with the Asian section of the season, not necessarily because it's Asia, but because it's the end of the season and they're tired. What is it about this time that has actually worked for you though, and why do you enjoy playing this section of the season?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, that is true. It's pretty tough because especially it's after you're coming from long season and there is this last few tournaments in States. There is like five tournaments in a row, which is tough, and then you're going straight to Asia.  
Time difference and everything, it's just tough to change. They are also long flights, so it's just tough for everyone. But I don't know. I just feel‑‑ come here and just feel good. Always looking forward to play these tournaments in Asia.   
Even if the beginning when I went first time to Asia I had good results and I was playing challenger, so I have good memories from the first time.  
Yeah, even I didn't have that good tournaments this year in Asia, this made it a little bit better.   
   
 Q. (Through translation.) Congratulations. When you hear the Chinese interpreter you seem really interested in it. Are you interested in Chinese, or do you want to show your language talent just like Djokovic? How is your language ability?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't think I'm good in other languages than Czech and maybe English a little bit. Definitely I will not learn Chinese because I heard it's pretty tough.  
You know, I don't have much talent for this so I will not try to (smiling.)  
   
 Q. You haven't played Venus. I presume you've seen her play, but do you remember the first time that you saw Venus play, and what do you expect to see from her tomorrow?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Of course I remember. I was pretty small and I was watching her on TV. She was playing with Serena obviously and they were‑‑ she was best at that time, so it's long time ago.  
She's really legend in tennis, so I have big respect for her. But I'm not going to have the respect. On court like to her yes, but not in the game. I know she's serving pretty well. She can serve pretty well. Also she can have days when she's not serving.  
She can play fast from the baseline, but I just have to‑‑ she has to run. Like I have to run that she has to run, because we are both big. Also like serve more to the body. There is few tactic stuff which I'm going to talk later with my coach as well.  
We will see what we can do for the win.   
   
 Q. Do you remember specifically what match that was that you saw?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, not really. I know we were watching a lot of matches, but I don't know. It's more than 15 years so I don't remember. But obviously it was her sister, Martina Hingis and Seles and those players.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT