DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 20, 2020
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. RYBAKINA/K. Pliskova   
7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough afternoon for you.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, not really (smiling).   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on the match?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I thought it was kind of okay from both of us. I thought she played really well, especially on all of my chances. I had couple. Actually I had a lot, about nine breakpoints.   
I thought I did okay job just going into her second serve every time. I think she just came back with some good shots.   
Of course, she's young, so she went for it. She played well.   
 Q.  Was there anything you could have done to turn the match around?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, it's tough. I think on days like this, really I didn't do that much wrong. Definitely I could do some things better.   
Maybe the last game was chance. I had 30-Love, missed two returns. I think that was the worst what I did overall in the match.   
Overall I think I tried to be aggressive which with her is tough because you don't get that many chances to be aggressive, especially on the returns.   
I think she was serving quite big here. The conditions here, they are fast. I think for her game, it's quite well. For mine, too. It was about a couple points. It could go both ways I think.   
 Q.  You're the serve expert. From your opinion, what is tricky about her serve? What makes her serve so effective?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Her serve or my serve?   
 Q.  Hers.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: She's maybe taller than me. That's a good help for a good serve, I think. She hits it. She can go over 190. She's quite strong. I think the speed is always trouble.   
I think she can drop here and there couple big mistakes from the first serve. Even the second serve was quite solid. I was trying to attack it.   
I think anyway if you hit over 190, no matter where you really hit the serve, I think it's still a good serve. I think it's more about the speed with her.   
 Q.  Besides the serve, is there anything else you feel she's been doing well?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, definitely she has to do something well. She's not winning only because of the serve, especially not that many matches in a row.   
I think sometimes when you're this confident you don't even know what you're doing and you really don't think much. You don't really think much. I think that's her case right now. Especially when you are young, pretty much all the matches she's playing up now, she's on a good run. That's of course undiscernible. There's not much to say.   
It was first match of us. Maybe if you play couple more, then I can really know how she's playing or if she can hold this level.   
 Q.  What are your best takeaways from these couple matches? How do you look ahead to Doha?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Definitely looking forward to Doha little more. I think I had some good practice days here, in the end good two matches, two matches of doubles. I think was not a bad week.   
Not every week not making the final is a bad week. I think that's how you guys see it. For me was not bad week here. A lot of positives.   
I thought my attitude was great this week. Of course, there is another week, another tournament. Looking forward to that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT