HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 5, 2015
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. PLISKOVA/S. Errani
  6‑0, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. Your first match is really tough one and today was quick. What's your secret for that?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Thank you. Yesterday was really tough so I was just happy that I recovered quite fast till today and I was feeling 100% ready to play the match today. I think I did pretty well.   
From the first point to the last point I was playing solid from the baseline and serving well. She didn't have any game ‑‑ probably any game plan to beat me also. It was tough because she probably knew she cannot win the group anymore, so she was a little bit disappointed probably.  
But like I said, I was happy with the way how I played the whole match.   
   
 Q. This year you reach your highest ranking, the top 10. What's the feeling?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: It was first time for me to get to top 10. Was in States this year. But, yeah, it was great feeling, because obviously it was always my goal to get to the top 10.  
This year I finally did it. Now I'm out of top 10, so it's going to be my next goal to get back.  
   
 Q. Do you want to improve your movement?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Of course I want to improve, but it's not that easy. You cannot just say I will improve my movement and it will happen. Obviously I'm working on it and it's getting better. Needs more time to improve it.   
   
 Q. We find out that no matter what the match is like, you're posting a poker face and really calm in that moment when is the key points.   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I'm trying to be calm, but not every time I am. You know, it's different on the outside and on the inside.   
But I'm trying to stay calm as much as I can.   
   
 Q. Next year is Olympic year. Will you play with your sister to play doubles?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't think so. I wish we could play together, but there is many better players in doubles than we are right now.  
So I'm not even sure if I will get into singles, but I hope yes.   
   
 Q. So your focus will be on single or double next year?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Singles for sure.   
   
 Q. Last question: You are a rising star on the WTA. You have a really good face. You have really nice body. Do you wish yourself to be a fashion star like Sharapova or you want to more focus on tennis?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, thanks for the compliment, but I'll probably stay in tennis. I don't really like those things.  
Sometimes it's nice to dress up for the party once in a month, but not much.   
   
 Q. (Through translation.) Would you compare yourself with Muguruza as the most best rising star this year?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Definitely we have similar style with Muguruza. She's better now. She did the Masters. She played final of Wimbledon. She had very good year.  
I played her twice this year and I beat her, so I think I can have the same results like she has. Maybe next year. We will see.   
   
 Q. Your sister and you become professional athletes together, and she now fighting for top 100; you're top 10. What's the comment on this difference?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: It's been a while since we separate like this, but still, I'm saying and still thinking that she belongs to different places than where she is now.   
I hope one day she's going to get there, which means to be top 100 for sure and even more up.   
So we will see how she goes. Next year there is new year starting. She had a little bit bad luck this year. For the close matches she was losing all of it. So maybe next year she can improve in this and be somewhere more up like me.   
   
 Q. (Through translation.) The Williams, Serena and Venus, would you like to take them as your target to be the top both in singles and doubles?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I guess they are target for everyone, but it will be really hard to achieve what they achieved.  
Yeah, we can try to.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT