HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 4, 2015
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. PLISKOVA/J. Jankovic
  6‑4, 3‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. You looked pretty exhausted out there in the second and third set. How were you able to pull that off and play really some of your best tennis in the third set?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, yeah, it was pretty tough match from the beginning. She's defending pretty well and running a lot over the baseline, so it's tough, you know, just to kill ball to her.   
Also like she's returning pretty well, so there was a lot of long rallies, which I'm not used to play.  
But I think I did good job. The first set was pretty solid from my side. The beginning of the second set I had some break points which probably made the set that I didn't do, that I didn't break her in the first game, because she was a little bit down after the first set.  
But I was just happy that I start really well the third set. And I did five games in a row, which was very important. Even I lost then two games in a row. But I just was able to close it. I felt really tired in the end, but I think she did as well.  
So we were just both struggling, but really happy with the win today.   
   
 Q. It was your 50th win today. Not too many players have won 50 matches this year. Does it feel like you've played that many matches? And if so, how are you motivating yourself through this tournament?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I heard about that. Someone told me already that was the 50th win. So, well, it's amazing. I don't really feel like I won 50 matches this year.  
It's end of the year, so obviously I feel a little bit tired. There is also some matches which I lose, so I think around 60, 70 matches in the year, which is a lot.  
But I'm just happy that I won so many matches this year. Just tomorrow is another match, so I'm going to try to win this one, and I'll do anything for that.   
Just last few days of tennis this year, and so I'll just get ready for that.   
   
 Q. (Through translation.) In the second set you were actually at a disadvantage in the beginning. In the third set you actually adjust yourself pretty well to finally win the match. What's the reason for that, and how would you characterize your opposition for the next match?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think in the second set and also in the third set I was ‑‑ in each set was one really important game. In the second set it was the first game. I had three break points on her serve and I didn't do it. That was probably the main game in the second set.  
In the third set it was the second game when I breaked her. She was leading the whole game, but in the end I was able to break her. I played really good game. And it's always like if you do this first step to do the first break and then you are leading with the break, and then I went to serve.  
So was really important the beginning of the third set I think, because she was playing really well. If I will not do this game I think will be really tough to win the third set against her. I'm really happy that I stayed in the game in the beginning of the third set.   
And for tomorrow, I'm playing night match tomorrow, so really happy for that because there is a lot of time to recover. Was really hard match for me today. I'm playing against Sara. I played her once but already few years ago, so I don't remember this match. I remember I lost.  
But, you know, I just don't want to think about this match, what was. I know she's similar player to Jelena, so I just to have play like I played today and be ready that she's going to put everything back.  
I just to have play my game and be consistent. I think I have the game to beat her.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT