DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 19, 2015
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. PLISKOVA/L. Safarova
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   A set and 3‑1 down.   How did you win that match?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I actually don't know that much.   No, but it happened the same thing what happened to me yesterday with Ana.   I was set and break up and was a little bit similar match.   But today it went my way, so I'm really happy.
I have to say Lucie played really well the second half, but I would say that she deserved to win as well but winner can be only one.   I'm a little bit sorry for her.
But there was close.   Beginning of the match I had few break points and like few close games.   Could be 4‑2 for me but it was 4‑2 for her.   That's why I lost the set.   I was a little bit mentally down. 
Also, the second set break down but I called coach and he really helped me.   He said few things which really helped me, and I did the break afterwards immediately the game after.
So that's probably the main thing why I won the second set, and then why I won the third set, as well.

Q.   Is it a bigger deal for you when you beat somebody who's more prominent in the Czech Republic who is older and known and everything, or that doesn't add an extra special something for you?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I'm not really thinking about this, but it's always hard to play someone from Czech Republic.   I already played two times in two weeks, once with Lucie and once with Bara, so I don't really like those matches.
But of course it's great win for me.   She's a great player, and she's on the tour quite long and doing good results, even win Australian Open doubles, so I have to say I'm very happy that I won today.

Q.   When you're home, do people know who you are?   Do they stop you on the streets, or... 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, not really (smiling).   Because in Czech Republic like they are supporting tennis quite a lot, but I don't think they are watching that much or they are following the results, because no one is stopping me.

Q.   Do you think they know who Petra is?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, Petra I think they know really well.

Q.   Why do you think you're playing so well? 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I don't know.   I guess I just ‑‑ I started really well this season, and I won some matches already in the beginning, which gave me some confidence.
I keep going.   Like I won two matches in Fed Cup and then in Antwerp, so it's just going a little bit‑‑ I don't want to say automatic, but I'm just going every day on the court and trying to do my best, and it's going on my way.   I'm really happy.

Q.   Do you still read Paulo Coelho?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes.   If he has any books‑‑ I think I read all of his books, but I don't think he has any new now.   I read the new, the latest one, what he did.

Q.   Which one was that?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   I don't know it, the word in English because I read it in Czech.

Q.   What do you like about him?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I like the books.   Every book is different.   I'm not reading that much.   It's maybe one or two books in the year.   But I choose him because I read the first book, The Alchemist, and I really like this book.   I keep continue to reading his books.

Q.   I know you said the other day you don't think Kristyna is jealous about your success, but do you think there's a part of it that's kind of hard for her because it's getting there first?   She's human. 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yeah.

Q.   That's got to be difficult. 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, of course it's a little bit difficult for her now, but she's winning as well now.   Actually she's playing 50.   She won two rounds.   I think it's always better that she's winning.   She's not thinking about it that much. 
I think she's going to do better now.   She won one 25, now two matches on 50, so she just needs to win few matches and she can be for sure better than she is, and I hope she will be somewhere in the top 100 or top 50 closer to me soon.

Q.   Forgetting tennis, as children, did you like have a little rivalry and stuff?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, we were all the time together till like 18 years old where we a little bit changed tournaments and so, because of tennis, so we are best friends on the court and off the court, as well. 
Sometimes it's of course hard because we were 24 hours every day together, so we fighting a little bit, but it's always, you know, after the fight, we are fighting and in two minutes everything is fine (smiling).

Q.   Did your mom dress you alike when you were kids, wear the same things?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   When we were small, yes, but then we didn't like it at all.   We didn't want to have the same things one has.   So from like when we started to go to school we already had different clothes.

Q.   Are there other brothers and sisters?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   No.   No, it's just us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT