DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 18, 2015
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. PLISKOVA/A. Ivanovic 
  6‑2, 4‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   That was difficult and she almost came back.   How did you stay composed in the whole match?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, it was quite difficult for me, because I was set and half better and had the feeling that I'm better, and it was just unlucky.   I missed one hard volley.   It wasn't that hard volley, but I missed it.   It was on 4‑2, and if I would do this one it would be probably quite easy, or not ‑‑ like you never know, but that was probably the main point of the second set.
Then she really improved a lot.   She was serving much better, even the first serve and even the second serve.   Well, in the third set ‑‑anyway, in the second set still I was up 2‑0, 30‑Love and then she did hard volley which I missed afterwards, and that was probably the main key.   Then I missed one. 
So I could have won the second set like quite easy, but it was a little bit complications in the end.
Then she was better, like when she came up on 4‑3 she was better and then she did the second set.   But in the third set she really started to play really well and really fast.   It was a little bit hard for me.   She was going into every return. 
But I'm happy that in the end she did few mistakes, two double faults, which helped me a lot.

Q.   Looking at the positive side of that, you may have allowed her back into the match, but you actually beat her when she was playing at her best most of the time.   Was that a positive for you?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, it is positive, but I know I can still play better than I played today.   I played I think good set and a half and I was a little bit struggling.   I gave her the chance to get back in the match, and that's why she improve.   Then it was really difficult like for me to even win the match.
But I was like still trying to stay in the game and still hoping that she can do some mistakes as well in the end, and she did.   That's why I won.

Q.   You're going to play Lucie Safarova next. 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes.

Q.   I believe you guys are friends. 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes.

Q.   How long have you known her?   How difficult is it for you to face a friend?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I know her for a long time, but like personally I know her like around let's say one or two years.   We are meeting on the tournaments.
And even now we spend some time in Fed Cup or we are practicing a little bit more.   We played doubles here.
It will be quite tough.   We played already in Antwerp last week, so I'm not really happy for this draw, but what I can do? 

Q.   Do you have a feeling that when you play your game at its best you'll be very difficult for everybody now?   Do you have that feeling?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, yes, but like I have to play my game and I have to serve good and then like from the baseline I feel quite fine.
But the serve is my main thing.   Even like if the serve is working it's tough to break me.   You saw it even today like I break her two times in the first set and she ‑‑or she had few break points, but if I can do any ace or first serve, then it's hard for everyone to play against me.
But then if the serve it's not going that good, then it's like you can play with me normally (smiling). 

Q.   How long have you had this feeling that if it goes well you can actually beat anybody?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, maybe for a year and a half or maybe for two years.   I always knew if I can keep my game and keep the plan what I have to serve good and to play aggressive from the baseline, and if it's going, then I can really like beat everyone.   Or not everyone, but if I have the day that I'm playing good and the opponent has a little bit unlucky day or something, then I can win every time almost.

Q.   In a tournament like this, you're in the quarterfinals.   Do you believe that you can win the title?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I do believe that I can win the title, but it's still three more matches to go or however many.   I'm not really thinking about the title.   I'm just thinking about the next round where I have Lucie, and I will try to win this one and then we will see what happen next. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT