DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 16, 2015
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. PLISKOVA/A. Pavlyuchenkova 
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   I'm following you from Quebec. 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Oh, yeah. 

Q.   Talk a little bit about your match today. 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, there was a little bit complication in the second set, but the first set went quite easy.   I felt not even that tired.   But in the second set I had a break, and then I was feeling I'm sleeping a little bit, but then I concentrate back and I'm happy that I didn't go in the third set.

Q.   Sleeping from jet lag or... 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes, a little bit.   And I came today in the morning at 2:00 from Antwerp, and the flight was quite long.   I went first from Antwerp home and then from home here, so it's about seven hours.   Then we came really at 3:00 or 2:00 in the night. 
I wasn't really sleeping that good.   But, yeah, I'm happy that I won. 

Q.   Your general feeling for the tournament and the surface?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, it's totally different than it was in Antwerp, so I was a little bit getting into it and I didn't practice that much here.   I just hit 30 minutes in the morning today. 
So I hope the next match will be better, but it's quite fast.   It's flying.   So for the surface, for sure good.

Q.   It was a nice challenge for you, wasn't it, to adjust to being here?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes, of course.   It's nice change.   I'm happy to be here.   It's my first time when I made round here, main draw.   Last year I qualified and unfortunately I lost in first round. 
I'm happy to be in the second round, and I don't even know who I'm playing.   I will check later (smiling). 

Q.   You made a very good start to the season.   Anything you did particularly well to get ready for this one?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, not really.   I already had a good last year.   I just did good preparation at home, and I'm just happy that I can continue in the tennis what I was playing in the end of the year.
Yeah, I played a good tournament in Sydney, also now in Antwerp.   I'm feeling good.   I won my first two matches in Fed Cup, so I'm feeling good, confident. 

Q.   How do you plan the future?   Do you just think purely improving your game, or are there certain things you'd actually like to achieve?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I have some goals like maybe in the ranking, but I'm not really thinking about that.   I'm just going every tournament and trying to do my best on the tournaments. 
Of course there is a lot of things to improve in my game, and the biggest thing is for sure movement.   It's still my serve.   It's good shot but it's still not the best, so I have still a lot of things to improve.

Q.   How is your sister?   Is she jealous of you?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   No, I would not say she's jealous.   I think of course she wants to be there on the spot where I am, but she's I think now getting back.   She won 25 last week.   Now she's going to play 50.   I think she will be back in 100 soon.   Yeah, she can be better than she is.

Q.   Will that help you?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   If she's going to get more closer to me? 

Q.   Back onto the tour. 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Normally we play doubles everywhere together, so this is a little bit tough for me, because I'm playing on every tournament with someone else.   So I would prefer to play with her.   And anyways, it's good to have someone on the tour.   She's the closest to me, so I will be really happy if she can make it. 

Q.   She had the better junior results. 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes, a little bit, but we were close all the time.

Q.   Does it help or is it a hindrance to have people like Martina Navratilova and Petra Kvitova who have made a name for themselves?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I don't know.   I don't feel it's helping to me, like I'm not thinking that we had 10 players in Czech Republic which won, I don't know, so many titles.   And of course she's a great player and everyone is looking up to her, but I'm just focusing on my serve and not really thinking how many Czech players is in top 100 or so. 
I just know we have so many good players and it's fantastic for Fed Cup and for everything.   But, you know, it's singles sport, and so I cannot really think about that there. 

Q.   What is this, your tattoo?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   That's nothing.   No, it's a Polynesian style, and it doesn't really have any meaning.   It's coming from New Zealand, but it doesn't mean anything.

Q.   You just liked it?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes.

Q.   When you and your sister were so close in juniors, what helped you pull away and rise so well and she stayed pretty much at that level?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I don't really know where was the point.   When I won my first WTA it was in Kuala Lumpur, and she was still a little bit better than me, like let's say 10 spots ‑‑I was still behind her.   And then I make the bigger step to win the first title, and from that time I was only improving.
So maybe that's the thing why I got a little bit like faster up, and then, you know, she lost last year.   She didn't have that good year.   She lost so many matches in three sets, which I won, let's say, from match points or something.   This is really like not helping in the end, so she didn't feel confident on the court, so I hope she will feel better now. 

Q.   Do you start to get a lot more attention now?   If so, does that help?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Attention of what? 

Q.   Just people paying attention to you. 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes, of course I feel it a little bit.   Even when I played Fed Cup in Czech Republic, they talk more about me and the people are more cheering.   I have more fans, of course. 
So it's really nice from them, and, yeah, I think it's a big help that so many people are cheering for me. 

Q.   You know, your ranking and the attention and the improvement in your game, does that help you to focus even more tightly on what you're doing and improve more quickly still?   Does it help that?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   One more time the question?   Sorry? 

Q.   Because your ranking has improved, you're getting more attention, and, you know, good things are happening.   Does that help you to focus even more tightly and to improve more quickly?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, of course it's helping.   I know I can still do more like play better still.   I can do more good results, because even on the Grand Slams I didn't play yet that good, so there is the biggest weakness, I would say, because normally I'm having quite good results but not on the biggest tournaments, so I have to improve even there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT