AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 13, 2021
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  K. MUCHOVA/K. Pliskova
 7-5, 7-5
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Talk us through the match, tough match versus a compatriot.  How are you feeling?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Obviously disappointed because I thought I had plenty chances.  Unfortunately I was just not able to play well at the important moments.  That's about it for today.
 Q. Can I ask you about the rules.  Were you given the second warning because of smashing the same racquet off court?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yeah.
 Q. Did you know about that rule?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   No.
 Q. Have you talked to anyone about it since?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   No.
 Q. Obviously took you by surprise.
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, little bit.  But I think actually it helped me in the second set because I was pissed so I started to play well.  So, yeah, surprised, of course.
 Q. From 5-Love up in the second set, was it just a lack of focus, drop of energy?  What was the issue?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   No, for sure not energy.  I thought there were couple close games where I could really go 6-0.  There was long game for 5-1 and 6-0.
 I thought she just played little bit better at this moment.  Of course, I played quite amazing to 5-0, but then it's quite tough to hold this level for longer time.  I was going for, like, big shots.
 I mean, I had chances.  It's not like she would play amazing.  But fairly difficult points there.  Then on my serve, I just could do so many things better today, so...
 Q. With this tournament in the rearview mirror, do you have a sense of where your game is, the certain parts that need more work are?
 KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   No, I don't think my game is the top for sure, not at the top.  I don't want like to be too sarcastic and too negative after because I just loss.  It's tough to really say.
 I don't think I was playing really amazing.  The feeling was not great from any of the matches here.  Some were little bit better, some were little bit worse.
 I think overall, like, too many mistakes, too much like panic in the rallies.  I don't know if it's just like not having any matches much lately, like even last year.  Yeah, I don't feel like safe with anything what I was really doing on the court.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT