BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 5, 2015
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. PLISKOVA/V. Azarenka
  4‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Second set it was looking a bit grim towards the end.   Did you feel on every stage you could turn it around?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, it was starting to be close in the second set and I felt like she's starting to do more mistakes than in the first set.   She was playing very good in the first set, especially the beginning.
But I was trying just to put the ball in so she could make a mistake, and she did.

Q.   I think early in the third set there was a point, might have been the point to get to 2‑All, a big point, and the crowd really got behind you.   Did you sense that the crowd were really on your side in that third set?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes, there were few nice points, like, long rallies, and crowd was amazing, yeah.

Q.   You think it was just an underdog thing or they really liked the fight that you were putting out, that you turned the match around and got yourself back into it?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes, maybe, because when I came on the court there were supporting her in the beginning, but then it was a little bit change and turn around, and it was really nice feeling that they are supporting me.

Q.   Your side of the draw here has really opened up.   Some seeds are gone.   Think you can make a deep run here? 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, yes, I saw Muguruza, she withdraw, so that's for sure better.   I played Kudryavtseva twice last year and I won twice, so it's for sure probably easier than this match.
But I would just like to not talk about that now.   I have tomorrow off. 

Q.   Are you a better player than when came to Australia 12 months ago?   Obviously had that tough game in Melbourne that a lot of people remember.   You had two tournament wins at the back half of the season.   Are you a more accomplished player now?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yeah, I definitely feel better.   During this year I improve really a lot.   I won so many close matches like this and so many matches against better players.   I got two titles, so I think I a, better player than I was last year.

Q.   An you were able to win I think at least one game at each of the Grand Slams last year.   Now with your ranking improved you're looking at seedings as you come to the Grand Slams this year.   Is that an opportunity for you to really break through in that part of game?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, it's going to be first time that I will be seeded, so it's going to be ‑‑   actually, (indiscernible - microphone malfunction.)

Q.   And your tattoos?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes.

Q.   Story behind them, because your sister has similar. 
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   She has also, yeah.   No, there is no story.   No, we have it; our dad has it as well.   We always wanted to have some.   I have two; she has only one.   It's a Polynesian style.   It's coming actually from New Zealand, but it doesn't really mean anything. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT