APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 16, 2015
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 P. KVITOVA/K. Pliskova
  7‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That must be disappointing, but two tiebreak sets.   Obviously very close.   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, yes, it is a little bit, but I'm happy with the way I played.   Happy that I played a good week here before Melbourne.  
So I'm not really sad.   She was really better today and deserved to win.   It was a good match for me.   She is 4 in the world, so I'm not really sad.  
   
 Q.   Does this increase your hopes going into Melbourne?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, definitely it's better to go there with some matches like what I won here, and good matches.   I beat those players, one top 10, one top 20, so that's definitely better.  
   
 Q.   You've played a lot of tennis recently.   How are you feeling physically?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   I feel today I must say a little bit tired.   Also in the match I wasn't that‑ I don't want to say fast, because I'm not that fast normally‑ but I felt a little bit tired, not that much power in my serve.   The shots were not that fast, like let's say yesterday against Angelique.  
Yeah, I was playing doubles here?   As well, so maybe every day finished like at 11:00 in the evening, maybe that's why.   
   
 Q.   Are you relieved that you don't have to play the doubles final now?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I would love to play the doubles final, but I feel now better if I'm not playing anymore.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   You forced Petra to play a second match point by playing an outstanding volley to save it.   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes.   It was a little bit lucky because she played ‑‑ or I played one let in that rally.   I don't feel really comfortable on net, so that was just like a little bit lucky.   
   
 Q.   What are some of the things you like to do to your game to improve it?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, still, like I said, it's my movement.   It can be better.   100% it can be.  
It's my serve.   Sometime it's just a little bit up and down.   So one game I do three aces and then one game I don't put one first serve in.   
So to be more solid from the baseline as well.   Not to do that many mistakes, easy mistakes.  
Yeah.   
   
 Q.   You said you don't feel really comfortable at the net, but you play a lot of doubles and you seem quite good at this net.   Do you feel like you should be trying to do that more?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, we are working on it and it's getting better.   I'm feeling already better on the net, but still it's really tough because I'm not going there very often.   Even in the doubles I'm playing more from the baseline.   It's more about serve or return on the doubles.   
So it's improving, but it's not really perfect now.  
   
 Q.   You went to Melbourne last year ranked in the 60s and now you're top 25.   Where are the biggest improvements in your game in the last 12 months?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I don't really know.   I have to say like I played so many matches last year and I won so many matches so I had a great year and that helped me really a lot.   So I'm more confident now and I'm more confident to play against those players.   I know I can beat them, and that's maybe the difference.   
   
 Q.   I know you played lots of finals before, but I think this might have been the biggest one, biggest crowd, kind of biggest stadium, big opponent?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   I don't know if biggest stadium and biggest crowd, but definitely biggest tournament.   I played only those 220, then in Seoul what I won.   
But, yeah, that was a great opportunity to play here on the stadium against Petra.   I think it was amazing match for me.   
   
 Q.   Most players have problems with the lefties, but you beat Kerber last night and you matched quite the same level with Petra.   Is it because you play with your sister?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   It is a little bit, I have to say, because we are playing a lot of practices together.   I was growing up with her, so I am really used to a little bit lefty serve.  
But still, like every girl has a little bit different.   I would say like Petra, she's really different level than Kerber, so it was really like faster everything today than yesterday.  
But, yeah, for sure it's good help to have at home lefty sister.   
   
 Q.   Out of all the players on the women's tour, who is one that you admire and look up to?   Like, If I had that kind of career I would be really happy.   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I never had any idol in tennis.   I'm watching more guys than girls.  
But, well, I would say maybe Petra because she has a similar game like me and she's really acting well on the court and playing well.   
I have to say she's probably now the player, which I would love to play like or behave like.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned guys.   What are some of the guys?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, we were watching ‑‑ my sister, she actually had her idol Goran Ivanisevic; he was lefty.   I had Marat Safin.   So we had each one.   But it's long time ago, so I don't really have anyone now.  
It's just watch Roger, Djokovic or those players, and it's amazing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT