APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 15, 2015
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. PLISKOVA/A. Kerber
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations on a great win.   You're into the final.   First final of the year.   How do you feel?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Thank you.   Well, I think I been playing the whole week really well.   I won a good matches.   Last week as well, the week before in Brisbane I had few good matches, so I'm feeling well and happy to play good before Melbourne.  
   
 Q.   Did you think you were going to have this kind of form in the southern hemisphere?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes, I hope.  
   
 Q.   So just talk a little bit about today.   Kerber is a very good player, but you seemed to be on top of her the entire time.   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes, it went quite easy.   I was surprised as well that it was 6‑3, 6‑2.   I played few times here and it was always close match.   
But I think I started to play like really fast, really like pushing her and dictating the game a little bit.   Of course my serve was working today as well, so maybe that's the difference between us.   
I made the break, and one break for me was enough to close the first set.  
In the second set it was quite easy.   I was in few minutes leading 4‑1 with two breaks.   
So, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a plan going into the match, or just wanted to play your own game?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I'm focusing on my own game, but of course I'm trying to play a little bit different on each player.   I been playing with her three times already, so I know she's lefty and she has a little bit different game than the match before, Suarez Navarro.  
So I was thinking about the matches what I was playing against her last year.   Of course I'm trying to stay in my game plan and play my game.   
   
 Q.   Could be an all‑Czech final if Petra gets up tonight.   Have you thought of that?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   I saw Petra.   She's playing really good this week.   She had also few good matches.   Also in Shenzhen she won some matches.   
So it would be tough to play her.   I played her once, and like I said, she's never losing with Czech girls, so that would be really tough.   But I saw Tsvetana is already having a break so it's going to be a tough match for Petra.  
She lost to her last year here, so we will see which one will win.  
   
 Q.   How much confidence did you draw from Brisbane, particularly the win over Azarenka?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, not really that many, because I had a good first round.   I played really good match against Azarenka, which was a tough for first round.  
In the second round unfortunately I lost to All Kudryavtseva, which I should win that match.   So I was a little bit disappointed with that.   
But I made the semis in doubles, which was a little bit help to me as well.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think it's so easy to go from one great win over Azarenka to an unfortunate loss to Kudryavtseva?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, honestly, I was thinking that it's going to be an easy match for me.   I played her two times and I won two times in three sets.  
She was playing really good that day and I just wasn't playing my best.   If I'm not playing my game and best tennis and not serving well, then it's tough to win if she's playing well.  
   
 Q.   How did you manage playing deep into both the singles and doubles?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, it's a little bit‑‑ I'm a little bit tired, I have to say.   
But I didn't have that many tough singles matches here.   Only one time I played three sets yesterday.  
I think the doubles is helping also.   It's better than to go practice.   I prefer to play the doubles then.   
   
 Q.   Going back a couple days, you missed out on the opportunity to play Halep.   Were you disappointed you didn't get to play her?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, yes, because I was thinking I didn't want the same thing to happen than in Brisbane, that I got the lucky loser and I lose in the second r.  
But it went quite easy, the second round.   I never played actually Simona, so I was looking forward to that match.  
But I hope we can play many times in future.   
   
 Q.   Did you have a plan going into that match if it was going to happen?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I saw her playing many times in TV and I never played her, so I was just like watching some few videos.   I didn't really know she was not going to play until the last moment.   They just told me before the match.  
I was prepared for playing her.   But then if it wasn't her, I was just staying with my game and play my tennis.   
   
 Q.   How was the experience playing on the big center court for the first time?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I'm not that scared from playing on center courts.   I played matches in Brisbane on center court as well, so for me it's better to play on the center court than on the smaller courts.   
It was really nice to play there.   
   
 Q.   Petra was saying you're much more relaxed now.   Do you feel that way?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   That I'm relaxed?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   That over the last year or so it's gotten better.   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yes, maybe.   I'm getting older, so, yeah, maybe yes.   I have more experience now against those players so I'm not that scared.   I'm not saying I was scared, but it's just different to play them now after four or five times than I was playing her first time.   First time I got 6‑3, 6‑1 against Kerber.  
So it's a little bit different situation now.  
   
 Q.   So his 21 now.   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   22.  
   
 Q.   Excuse me.   So old.   When you were 18, are you much, much better now, and why?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, I think when I was 18 I was still playing like junior or something then, because I won the junior Australian Open and I was still thinking like about that.   
Well, I missed those matches like when you're playing against the better players and against the top 10 players, which I had last year few and I won some.  
So that was probably the thing which help me to go even more up.   
   
 Q.   What have been some of your most memorable matches and what have you gotten from them?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, first time in my life actually I beat Kerber, like a top‑10 player.   That was probably my biggest win until that time.   
Then I beat Ana Ivanovic, so I would say this one maybe.   
Also ‑‑ well, I have to say those players because it's never easy to play them.   
Against Azarenka was also great match.   So maybe this one I would say was the hardest one from those all.  
   
 Q.   When you win a match like that, does it pump you up and you feel like you can do more?   Do you get energy?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, yes, of course it's a good energy.   Like I know I can win against those players.   Sometimes it's just tough.   If they are playing well, then it's tough to beat them.  
If I beat them, it's really positive energy going.   Yeah, it's good.   
   
 Q.   Apart from you, who do you think is going to win Grand Slams titles this year?   
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Well, it's tough to say.   In women's tennis there is everything possible, so...  
Well, there is still Serena playing, so I think she has the biggest chance.  
But, well, I don't know.   I would say her, but you never know.   Like she can play really good and then no one has a chance, and then she can also have like hard day and play bad.  
So we will see how it goes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT