DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 16, 2020
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your game coming into this tournament?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I feel always the same. Of course, before the tournament it's never the best. I think I can get better during the tournament or during next couple days.   
I'm going to play doubles here. Hopefully it's going to be before my singles match. I still have couple days for my first round, so let's see.   
 Q.  Who are you playing with?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Kristyna.   
 Q.  A lot of excitement with Kim. What do you make of her comeback? Will you watch her first match?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: First of all I will see what's my schedule is, then I can make plan about watching other matches. So far trying to not watch that much tennis for last couple weeks.   
Also the matchup against Garbine, everything is very interesting of course. I think it's a great story. For sure she can do well. It's amazing. If not, I think she's going to try more.   
For sure she didn't play for last couple years so it's going to be difficult. You always need to have some matches under your belt just to feel better and confident. She was a great player. I think you cannot really forget how to play tennis. You still need to be fit, which we will see if she is.   
 Q.  Why have you not watched much tennis the last couple weeks?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I watched too much before. So now no more.   
 Q.  Have you set yourself any targets for this year?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I always have targets, even in the life, even in the tennis life. I think it's not always about the targets. I think it's also about the journey.   
I have some goals to do well, do specific things on the practice courts, in the matches. Not always has to be about the victories. I think I had enough victories in my career so far that I don't have to really push to win this tournament or to win the next one. Of course, it's always nice to win tournaments.   
I want to get better as a player. That's my goal for this year. Let's see if I can do that.   
 Q.  You're new coaching setup, can you talk about how it's going since it's been a month or so.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, very happy with Olga definitely. A lot of weeks now because we started last year in China. Of course, I know her very well, so it's nothing new.   
Of course, Dani, he's around when he can. I'm sharing him with Wawrinka. Not always is easy just to have him for myself. Since Olga is there, it's working quite well. We talk every day. The plan we do always us three together. Even the rest of the team I think pretty much it works right now. Let's see.   
 Q.  Other than Dani's input, has he brought in a unique perspective?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think on one hand it can be very good because he didn't really have a past player woman so there is nothing who would be he's scared of or tough to play because he was with that player. A lot of players now are changing the coaches. There is always some history about it. I think this is very positive.   
I think, of course, still men's tennis is so much better than women's, whatever the men bring to women's tennis I think it's going to be helpful. Doesn't matter what it is, if it's the speed or if it's the tactics or the power, the thinking, I think it's still so much better.   
Whatever he can give me from the men's tennis I think is only going to be good for me.   
 Q.  (Question about Kristyna.)  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think now since it's couple years, she's fine with that. Look, I'm saying this to everybody. I think of course we are twins, but we are two different people. Doesn't matter that I'm No. 3, she has to be No. 4 or No. 2. Doesn't always have to be that the twins are close.   
We were close for a lot of years, until juniors or maybe 20 years of age. We were just a couple of ranking spots between each other. I think it's understandable it can just not be like this forever. We are two different persons.   
I think she has an amazing career. That I'm this much higher on the ranking has nothing to do with her career. I think it's just two different careers.   
We like to share the court together. We share pretty much everything off the court. This is just tennis. I think this has nothing to do with our life.   
 Q.  What did you make of Sofia Kenin's run to the Australian Open title? Were you surprised?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Since I lost, I went back home, I didn't really follow anything. Of course, the results I know.   
Well, of course, a surprise I think not only for me. I think pretty much everybody is used to these surprises now. I think it's not really sure who is going to win what.   
I think actually it's easier for these players to play their style because there's not much attention on them so they can really play free and play well, which I think she did play well for sure. If you want to win Grand Slam, you have to play well.   
Definitely I think she didn't really have an expectation on her back. Of course, it's different once you win a Grand Slam to compete. I face her couple of times, so for sure she's good player. Very young, going for her shots. Definitely she deserves.   
 Q.  Most players say the most pressure they feel is the one you put on yourself. Has the level of pressure you put on yourself to try and win a slam changed over time?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: It's been changing definitely, getting better with the years. I think also the players get better as well. It's not mean if you feel better about yourself doesn't guarantee anything, not even one victory in the first round. I think also times you need luck, you need a good draw. There is plenty things which need to be there in those two weeks or a week.   
It's not only about this, but I think definitely I'm feeling better about myself, about my game too. Let's see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT