BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2020
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/M. Keys
6-4, 4-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: First question, please.
Q. Congratulations. How does it feel to win here for a third time? I think this is your first time defending a title.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I think that's more special than winning is that I finally defend. So, yeah, that's always I think harder. But, yeah, it took me couple years to do it, but pleased with that.
Q. What does defending a title -- you tried to do it before, obviously, but what does it actually take, now that you've done it, what does it feel like? If you can just describe the feeling of having two years of being champion in the same place.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I think it's always difficult to defend because to be in a great shape at that moment where you just won last year, I think a long way since the title, a lot of things happen, so it's actually the timing doesn't always have to be perfect, you doesn't always have to feel the way you felt last year. But somehow with these conditions and here in Brisbane, I think, those are my two tournaments. And so this time, I don't think it was perfect tournament, maybe last year I played here and there a little better, but maybe I was fighting more this time and just somehow find a way to win the matches, which is important. And I beat only good top players, so there was nobody really easy this time, maybe compared to last year I think the draw was a little bit different. So and of course especially in the beginning of the year I think it's no better start.
Q. Why do you think you've had so much success in Brisbane? It seems to be a really great event for you.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think it's also because it's little bit like inside. It feels like more inside court, so it's not really open and feels like indoor a little bit. So I think anytime I just play good indoor, I know I won couple titles indoor too, so the conditions are perfect for me. There's no wind, no sun, so I can really hit it full power and the ball's not going to go really anywhere. And I like it here. Now I have a lot of memories here so there is no reason to don't be playing well here.
Q. Three hours -- or three hours last night and over two hours today, you must be pleased with your fitness levels this early.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, but also I'm happy that it's over (laughing). So it's, it was my last push today and I think I spent quite a lot of time on the courts this week. I had only tough matches here, not even any one, two sets, I played. It was with Alison, actually, but I think it was close to two hours too. But so finally tomorrow's a day off for me, so that's good.
Q. Does that change the way you prepare for Melbourne the next few days?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I don't think it will change. And as I said before, I think my recovery is quite good, so I think one day off, some rest and day off will be enough for me.
Q. You turned that win last year here into a semi-final in Melbourne. Can you just throw forward and tell us your hopes for Melbourne? Obviously, it's great to be playing well going to a Grand Slam. How do you feel your chances are down there?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Of course, I think still I took it as a preparation here. But no matter how big the tournament is, it's still great to win it and to have the title, especially beating the last two players, Naomi and Madison. I think it always gives you some extra confidence and at least you know which level are you at, so I think it was a great way to start the year. But of course, Grand Slam or any other tournament it always starts on zero, so there's nobody's really thinking that, Oh, she won a tournament two weeks ago. So I think this doesn't count. I can still feel well and confident and whatever, but I think we still have to start from zero. I still have to work this week to get some practices and to be ready for it, and then it's a new tournament so I think anything can happen.
Q. The other champion today in WTA was Serena, who won in Auckland, and you obviously had a great match against her last year at Melbourne. I'm curious what you make of her winning her first title in three years and if she can be a factor on tour again this year.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think she had a couple chances already last two years. She was always quite close. I think this time, especially there was, I think, no really opponent which would have the game to beat her. And I think for sure she did some work in the off-season, too, so she's quite strong and she looks quite pumped, she was playing doubles too, so I think she's going to be always tough no matter which ranking she is, no matter I think which age she is. So she's going to be always tough. And of course our match I think everybody will remember forever, especially me, maybe also she (laughing.) And, yeah, always looking forward to play her, so no matter if she's going to be in my part of the draw, it's going to be a challenge.
Q. You're talking about the conditions here, how much you love them. How do they compare to Melbourne? Obviously had a lot of success down there last year, what are the courts and the conditions like down there and how do they suit your game?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Sorry, what was question?
Q. How do the conditions here and courts compare to Melbourne?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think the courts actually they are pretty similar. I think the speed is quite the same, the balls are the same. Maybe a little more humid here, and there can be more hot, it can be also like 15, 20 degrees, so it's a lot of up and down there. But of course there is the sun, so I need to get a little bit used to the sun now. But I've been having some practices outside here too so it's hopefully it's not going to be that bad and that huge change, but otherwise I would say, because I have been playing well here and there too couple years in a row, so I think it's not a big difference.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT