BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 11, 2020
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/N. Osaka
6-7, 7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Congratulations.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Thank you.
Q. Did you feel the momentum shift in the match after you saved that match point?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, actually, yes, but still was not over because I was tiebreak and I lost the first one, so I thought it was still kind of open. But I definitely felt I played a great game on that 6-all, so it was maybe my energy was maybe a little bit more up, and I also had nothing to lose because the worst case I would go locker room. But after that I think I was just mentally much more stronger and up and physically maybe too, so I felt I'm not going to lose the third set.
Q. How would you rate that, first of all, your performance in the match compared to the performances in the past, because it seemed like it was maybe one of the best ones that you'd had, and then just in terms of the match itself, how good that match was?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Against her or just overall match?
Q. Overall match.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think, of course, it was some good tennis, still not the best feeling, but I think some shots maybe, sometimes maybe a couple mistakes I think I did, which I maybe should not. But anyway there was not many things which I would do wrong because it's also sometimes more about her and she can serve well, she can serve big, she can just hit couple great shots, so it's not every time only in my hands, which I was expecting that, of course. But I think it was a good match. Especially proud that I kind of stayed in there because it could go really a bad way after that first set because the set was huge and so close and big nerves. And so I think the main positive thing is that I somehow stayed just always close to her no matter if she's still broke me at that game for a 5-all. But I was still trying to be close to her and just fighting, which I think was the most positive thing today.
Q. Yesterday Ben asked you the question about which one of the four semi-finalists was the best defender and you said yourself. It seemed like it kind of paid off today. It seemed like you were so solid, especially in the corners. Talk about what it's like to have to defend and kind of counter her power and the way that she plays and how well did you it today.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, for sure I don't want to be really a defensive player, but sometimes you still have to defend couple shots. And I think especially against these big players you just need to some balls, you need to run and somehow you need to put it over the net. And I think I was just trying to do that but, of course, also taking my chances if I had them. Of course, against Naomi the more balls you put in, doesn't have to be always super passing, but the more balls you put in, I think there's a bigger chance that she's going to miss, of course. But I mean, she's a great player, so she's not going to miss really easy shots. But the closer the match it is, then the chance is bigger that she's going to miss. So that was my goal today and, yeah, let's see how things are going to be similar tomorrow.
Q. Maybe on the on-court coaching in the second set, I think your coach told you that using more of down the line is the key. Maybe I misunderstood but is that what she said and did you try to use more down the line after that?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yes, that's what she said, and I kind of tried, but I'm not sure if it's, I don't know, I tried, but I'm not sure if it really paid off. But Olga, maybe they meant to be more aggressive, just to going for some shots because I think she was, at some points she was just more aggressive than me, so I think they just wanted to like maybe change something, because especially her backhand today was working very well so she was the one who was changing first down the line. So maybe they wanted me to change this little bit and the tactics overall. But, yeah, whatever worked I'm not sure if really it is this, but I tried.
Q. And of course you are always serving good and big, but particularly today your percentage of first serve is really good. So could you evaluate your serve.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I think I was serving great but it's also I felt I need to serve well because she also was serving great, so there was not many other things which I could do because there was still pressure on myself, still pressure on herself, but I knew I was, I have to serve well. So that was a key today, and I think it was just couple, here and there a couple points, it was very close match. But I think in the big moments I was serving great. I just went for it couple times even for the second serve. And, yeah, and I saved couple break points also in the third set, in the second set too, so I think the serve was good today.
Q. It is your first week, obviously, a full week with Olga and Dani on your bench. What sort of interaction or what sort of energy have you felt from them? And how is it for you when you're getting used to a new team like that for you to try to jell with them?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I'm pretty good at just these changes, so, no, I mean, it doesn't take me -- I'm kind of fine with anybody who comes, so I don't need like a month to get used to these people. So it was quite quick, we spent couple times, couple days in the off season and then he just came here and we start to win somehow. So there was no real time to think. But I think -- and of course Olga I know very well and very long and we have been in tournament together last year, so there was nothing new. So I think it's good combination of both of them. And with her I can also talk some different stuff and she knows me so far still better than Dani, but I think the combination of them two is great. So they talk, so the communication is quite good between them, which is helpful. I mean, so far I'm very happy about the work, about the things which Dani is saying, so let's see what will be next.
Q. What did you think -- the conditions changed a lot during the match. It was really humid and then it kind of broke and then it started storming. I don't know if you, how much you noticed of that, but what did you feel like you noticed and then did you feel like it affected the tennis at all?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think it didn't, but I felt finally nice air this week first time. So it was extremely nice, because it was very humid today, especially I think not that hot, but still humid, because I guess the rain was coming. So I felt we are sweating or I was sweating like crazy, so I'm glad it got a little bit that was there was coming a breeze. And I heard the rain coming from the roof, but I think it didn't really affect the match.
Q. Dani is also still working with Stan, is that right?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah.
Q. So do you guys have a plan for what happens if you two are playing at the same time in Melbourne?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think, no, Danny's with me (laughing).
Q. Looking ahead, you've never played Madison before, which we all kind of were surprised by, but I'm sure that you've seen her play, she's seen you play, what do you make of the matchup and what do you think the key will be for the final?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I think she's definitely last top player which I never played and also surprising for me. And it was, couple times it was very close, we are almost playing, but so I think it's great that there is still somebody which I didn't face. And on one hand it can be tricky because you don't know much about the opponent -- and we actually never, maybe one practice if we had in the life, but of course I seen her, I think she was also playing quite good tennis here, she's playing very aggressive, so it's going to be I think similar to today, so I need to just stay in there and waiting for my chances.
Q. How do you think the recovery will be for you, just how much physical effort did it take, the humidity also, how are you feeling? She said that she was, after her match, she was very tired, so...
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I am not tired (laughing.) No, I mean, come on, it's last day. So I'll be fine, I'm sure I will be fine. Of course this match took me some energy but I'm always fine the next day, so it's going to be okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT