SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
October 30, 2019
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/B. Andreescu
6-3 (ret.)
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I'm sure that's not the way you wanted to finish the match. Talk us through what you saw when she went over on her knee.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Actually I didn't really look at her, so I don't know what really happened. I thought she did ankle at first moment, but then I saw she was taped by the knee. I don't know what really happened. I was finishing my serve, so I couldn't really watch.
Anyway, I don't know how bad it is. I was just ready that she was going to call physio because so far I think she has been calling physio in every match. It was not really a surprise for me.
I didn't know it was really that bad. Of course, I feel sorry for her. I don't know if she's going to be ready or if she withdraw completely, I'm not sure.
Anyway, I think she had a great season. Of course, everybody is tired a little bit by this point, but I think that's normal.
Q. Pretty much a straight playoff between you and Simona for the semis. How do you see that?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, actually looking forward. Of course, it's going to be some nerves, but I think that's the normal situation: you lose you go home. There's not going to be anything which we would not be used to.
I think that's going to be a great matchup for just going out of the group to the semifinals. Should be incredible match. I hope it's going to be a good match to watch, too. I'm sure, because she's putting a lot of balls back. The tennis with her, I feel it's always good to watch.
Of course, for me tough because there's going to be a lot of rallies. I played good match against Svitolina. I think it's going to be a little bit similar to Simona. She beat her, so should be close. But I still have to play well. It's going to be difficult.
Q. It was a long break with the medical. When you got back to it, it was still a bit tight, had to save some breakpoints. What was going through your head in terms of how you wanted to play?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think it was really weird from the beginning because I had so many chances already like the first game starting 40-Love, then losing my serve. Even after I had some breakpoints, didn't make it. It was a little bit up and down.
But I just felt I'm really in the match, I was ready to fight today, not to give it to her easy. Doesn't matter how bad injured she is, how bad she feels, I just wanted to win, get this victory to keep myself in the tournament, which happened, of course not in the best way.
I think I just stayed in there. If it's 4-All, 5-All, or maybe she's not going to retire of course. You never know. It was a little bit difficult because the timeout was quite long. I was just make sure I keep moving little bit. I had my serve, which was little bit advantage for me. I was on serve.
Anyway, I thought I just did quite good job after.
Q. In terms of the challenge of playing Simona, we have talked about it many times, playing her on this surface, the way the court is playing, what are the particular challenges?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I've played her on all of the surfaces, I think maybe not yet on grass. I think it's going to be similar to all the matches what we played. I don't think there's going to be any difference because I still have my game and she has her game. There's not going to be because of the surface some different tactics, I guess. It's a little bit slower, so maybe one or two balls we going to play more, little bit longer rallies.
Overall, I watched her a couple games, whatever, points the last two matches. Of course, she can also miss. I have to be ready just to stay tough. I beat her last time in Miami in semifinals. I just try to look little bit what I did there, just to go for it.
Q. Did you watch Simona's Wimbledon final, highlights? What was your reaction at the time?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I didn't watch. My reaction? There was no reaction. I don't know. I like her, so it's not that I would be upset if she wins or lose. It's not my business.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT