ZHENGZHOU OPEN
September 15, 2019
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/P. Martic.
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English first, please.
Q. Congratulations. Can you give us your thoughts on the match today?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think not really good start for me, but on the other hand I think she played great the first couple games, so I was just struggling a little bit. Pretty much everything I gave today and then under the lights it's not always what you want or what you are just used to. So of course all the day of waiting here today, also in the week, the weather was not perfect. But somehow I managed, even the break which we had when it was 2-0 I think it helped me just to stay calm. And I talked to Olga a little bit and I really started after better just being more aggressive, serving better and after everything kind of worked out.
Q. A word on how difficult it is to play in conditions like that when you've been hanging around all day and you finally get out and then you have the rain delay.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I was actually ready, maybe felt better today than yesterday. I have sometimes those waves and I just feel some days are a little bit different, some days are heavier and then sometimes you just feel better. So I was not feeling that tired, but of course it was more about not being sure if we're going to go out there or if we're going to play tomorrow, so that was I think the worst part of it. But in the end just happy that we went, we tried and we made it so we can just start new week tomorrow. So I think that's positive and for both of us it's better for sure that we made it today.
Q. Congratulations on this week. Set aside the troubles we have on Thursday and today, how do you rate the playing conditions here and do you have any tips or recommendations for next year, please?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Of course the weather you cannot really change, so that was I think the biggest trouble of this week. But otherwise, I won, so I'm not going to complain about anything here. I think everything was kind of good, I got everything what I needed, so it was perfect and there is nothing really which would be different from other tournaments or that would be missing. So from my side of view everything was perfect, I enjoyed the week. Of course, because of this weather, I didn't have unfortunately much chance to see something from the city, which I don't know if it's good or bad, because it's better to play matches and winning matches, but of course I will love to be back next year, hopefully the tournament's going to still be here and you're going to be here and, yeah, so for me everything was great and I really enjoyed the week. Only the weather.
Q. How about a roof?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: A roof? On the court?
Q. Yeah.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well that would be helpful. But I'm not sure if you can make it until next year.
Q. We can make it.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Okay. So start maybe.
(Laughter.)
Q. You said this is probably the best, aside from all the issues, you could ask for. I guess this title just added to the perfection of it. How do you think this title helps you with your mindset going into the rest of the season?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Last year I played Wuhan and Beijing, so I think it doesn't really mean anything. Of course it's title, but every tournament, every week you start from zero. So it's maybe about my feelings, but I think the other players they don't care, so they're still going to go out there and play the best tennis. So you always start from zero every week, so I guess this week now it's going to be over. Next week I don't play anything so I'm going to just enjoy a couple days just rest and do some things, do some recreation and get ready a little bit more for Wuhan and Beijing, because I just want to really try to play well this year, because I didn't the last couple years, actually. But of course I'm going to feel confident, I'm feeling quite well, I think I played good matches, but like I said, we start from zero, so nobody remembers what was yesterday.
Q. But the start of your Asian swing is still perfect, right?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yes, it's perfect.
Q. And you are now closing the gap in the rankings points. So regaining the number one position is that something that's on your mind right now? Do you ever think about it?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, never and it's not my goal for now. My goal is to play well, which I'm trying to play. So that's my goal for now and to enjoy and to don't really stress about results. So I'm not going to push to be number one and it's not my goal for now.
Q. How do you feel the championship trophy? Do you think it is special?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: For sure it's special because it's very heavy. I think I never had that heavy trophy before. So I'm not sure, I'm sure I get maybe smaller one, so it's better for traveling. But of course I like trophies and I like that every trophy is a little bit different. And of course with this it reminds me of the tower here where we stayed, so for sure it's special and I like it, it's just different than the others.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. Do you like the city? Have you tasted any local food in Zhengzhou?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Every day somebody asks me this question. No, I didn't. I think it will not change, because I'm leaving tomorrow. And I don't feel like really trying the local food because, as I said before, I'm not big fan of just trying new food, I just like to repeat food every day the same, which I like, which is pasta and just a little bit more like international food. But, yeah, maybe one day, but not this year.
Q. Can you make a review of your performance in this tournament and your advice on the whole tournament about the organization, the staff or the volunteers?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think that I answered this question before, but I will try again. I think I played good matches. Of course not all of the matches were perfect, the week never can be really perfect because it's so many days and so many things can be just different every day. But I think I played good matches, I beat some good players, tough players, which I maybe lost a couple times as well before. So I think that was the biggest plus of this week, especially with Petra, I think I lost a couple times in the last times. So these wins are always important, doesn't matter where you play, which tournament you play, but it's always important. Of course to get the trophy it's always special, so it doesn't matter really which week or how big the tournament is, it's always good, I think.
And of course I really enjoyed the tournament and I think everybody did a great job, as I said before. Of course even the volunteers, all the sponsors, and everybody who just was working on this tournament. I think, of course, it's never easy to do first time, like first tournament ever in this city, so I think that some stuff could be maybe a little bit difficult or just new, but I think there was nothing really from my point of view which would be something bad or that I would just think that it could be better. So from my view it was a great week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT