ZHENGZHOU OPEN
September 14, 2019
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/A. Tomljanovic
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Can you just give us your thoughts on the match today.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think I was feeling maybe a little bit tired today at some points in the beginning, but that aside, with a quick break, which kinds of happens, just to focus on the first ball. And I think I hit well for sure on my serve today so she didn't have many chances. Of course, one game I maybe lost a little bit of focus, but on the other hand I think I was serving well, a lot of first serves, and I just feel quite well from the baseline now, despite a lot of matches, I feel like every time I play a little bit more I feel good. And I think she didn't play actually that bad for compared to the score, it's quite looks like easy, but for me it was not really easy.
Q. How pleased are you with your game this week, the first week of the Asian swing?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, for sure it was not great in the beginning of the tournament, but now I think of course the match yesterday kind of gave me some confidence to be playing. It was long and had some good rallies. Today I felt just so much better. So, of course, this is the best start of the Asian swing, I think I could not do any better. Of course there is one more match tomorrow, so I don't want to talk too much about what's going to be next, just my goal is to win this tournament. And I'm first seed, so I should win. So of course every opponent is a little bit different and tough, but I think there's a good chance for me, if I keep playing like I was playing, I think for sure it's a good chance for me to win.
Q. Congrats on making the finals. This is the fifth final you reached this year. And in terms of the amount of finals it's probably the second best season for you. How do you rate your performance this season?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think maybe the best season, not second best, from what I remember.
Q. In 2015 I think you reached six finals, but I need to do a fact check later.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Okay, check.
(Laughter.)
No, of course it's great. I think every time when I give myself chances or go deep in a tournament, I play finals, semi-finals, I feel great. I just like these opportunities to go deep in the tournament. Of course it's good to collect the titles, everybody plays for titles, to go to the finals and just play the finals. So it doesn't matter which tournament you play, but every time I just want to go to the last match, the last day in the tournament. So I'm just happy that, especially when this tournament is the first in the, the first tournament in the year here, so I think it's also good to have some points in Asia. So just through all the year I feel like I played quite solid. Every month I have something which is important and now of course it's the end of the year, so the points they stay there for a year. And of course there is still Shenzhen, so I still fight for Shenzhen. So it's very important to have this kind of results at this time of the year. So I feel great this season, I said I didn't have many bad losses, but of course I could do better some tournaments, but the season is still not over, so I hope to do still some good results.
Q. And do you feel like that this is your best performance in Grand Slams, because you didn't go very far in those last three Grand Slams.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: This year I think only Australia was good for me, there was a big chance to win, I think. But the others, I was not playing good tennis at all. So, well, it's not pity, it's how it is. I still didn't play well. So I still wait for -- I had a couple good Grand Slams in the past, I played semi-finals and finals in the past, so it's not that I can't play, but it's more difficult and the more matches and two weeks -- and this week it's only one week -- I think I start to get tired when I play a little bit more of tennis, so that's why maybe the second weeks are kind of tough for me. But I believe I can win, so let's see what's going to be next year.
Q. The last two times you beat Ajla this year, is that a good sign for you?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I was thinking when I played yesterday if I win there is a good chance to win the whole tournament, so I think I'm good.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. We noticed that in the second set you made a double fault and we were wondering what is happening at that moment and what adjustment you made?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Am I allowed to miss or not at all? You can translate that. That's my answer. You can translate it. If I can miss or I cannot miss. Yeah, I think I won 6-3, 6-2, so let's not talk about two double faults.
Q. In the final you play Kiki or Petra, so which one do you prefer to play?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: It's tough to say because when I choose and then I lose then it looks stupid. So I think that it doesn't matter for me because I beat both I think last time. Of course, I lost to Petra on clay, but I think clay is different, I beat her in Miami on hard court. And I think they actually have very similar game, maybe Martic is a little bit worse on the serve, so maybe she will be better, I don't know. But of course she beat good players this week, she beat Sabalenka yesterday, I didn't see it, but she had to play quite good tennis. So anyway, I don't care.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT