WUHAN OPEN
September 22, 2019
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Coming off of a fourth title this year in Zhengzhou, how are you feeling about your tennis at this point in the season?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I feel good. Of course, I had couple days off now after the title. I think I was playing great tennis there actually. Little bit surprised because I didn't practice much after US Open. Sometimes it's better.   
But anyway, it was good week. Tough week, but good week. Of course, I feel somehow relaxed now because I'm qualified for Shenzhen. There is not much. Of course, there is two big tournaments, but no pressure as I had last year. So that helps. I can just little bit relax and enjoy a little bit more, at least try.   
I've been here two days. I feel quite good. Of course, little bit tired but good.   
 Q.  A relaxes week in Seoul, doubles with Kristyna, on-court coaching with her. How did that come about?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, the plan was not to play anything that week, so I was thinking I had few options what to do the week after Zhengzhou. But it was two hours from Zhengzhou, and it was two hours here. It was the best option what I could do.   
It was quite fun. Korea was nice. I won there I think five or six years ago title. I didn't go back since I won. It was nice just to be there couple days, enjoy. Father was there with Kristyna. It was nice. I did this coaching, so at least I did something different. It didn't help much (smiling).   
Of course, to play some doubles, I didn't practice much, but just somehow kept in shape little bit. It was good that we could play those matches.   
 Q.  Do you consider this the best season of your career, yes or no?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think yes, not only because of four titles but I think somehow I was quite solid. I didn't have any really bad tournaments or bad weeks.   
Of course, if we think about Grand Slams, that for sure could be better. I lost all the matches kind of close, so it could go the other way. I'm still just going to hope it's going to change next year or the year after. I have plenty years (smiling).   
But anyway, on the other hand, I think all the other tournaments and Australia was great. Still having four titles... Like I said, doesn't matter how big the title is, it's just good to have it. I think so far the best season.   
 Q.  On the on-court coaching last week, what was that like for you? Were you talking to Kristyna as honestly as you would sister to sister or were you aware, I should be careful about what I say?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, of course, I had the microphone so I could not say really what I want. But I was quite honest I think about the game, what she should play and what not.   
I think first time she called me it was 4-3 in the first set. Then Alexandrova did four double-faults in a row, so I said it was a great move I went there. I was quite confident after this first coaching, but then the magic disappeared.   
I think it's different also to see it, like, from not being on the court. Then you still have to think, like I was thinking all the set, I was just ready when she's going to call me. I think sometimes this can be tough for the coaches, for sure.   
But she's my sister, so it's not like to be a coach. I was more like a friend there for her.   
 Q.  At this point in the season, you said that you've already obviously qualified, that takes a lot of pressure off. How different does it feel? Last year was very stressful, but even compared to years before when you still had not qualified by Wuhan?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think this is maybe almost the earliest when I qualified. Maybe one year also I was close, maybe before this tournament I was in. Somehow, I don't know how I will do or how I will play. It's different without the pressure. Of course, I said I want to enjoy little bit.   
On the other hand I think the pressure kind of helped me to stay close and play just good tennis because I made the title in Tokyo because I kind of had to, because otherwise I would not qualify.   
So let's see without the pressure if I can do also good or maybe better than last year. Last year actually these two tournaments were quite tough for me. I didn't play well. So let's see.   
Of course, I feel totally relaxed now. There is nothing what I would be stressed about. Shenzhen was my goal, so I'm there. Let's see.   
 Q.  Have you and Conchita spoken at all about next year, what possible plans are? Are you waiting to have that conversation?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, we didn't talk. I guess this going to come maybe after Shenzhen because now it's still this season. I'm not thinking about next season, not about off-season. I have, like, small plans, but we didn't talk yet.   
 Q.  Speaking of the coaching, you were working with Olga Savchuk, maybe some jokes during the on-court coaching, a relaxing presence. What perspective did she bring to your game?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think it was nice change because, of course, my team is great, but to be with them all the time sometimes can be tough, especially when you play a lot, as I do this year, or every year (smiling).   
It was nice change. It was just totally relaxed. Of course I wanted to win because I went there. I always want to win when for on the tournaments.   
She also was more like a friend. She told me couple things here and there, but it was totally without pressure. I just kind of enjoyed a lot all the matches, even if the beginning of the tournament was quite tough with the weather. It was a lot of rain and delays.   
But somehow we just talk not about tennis much, about the matches little bit, but I know her really like 10 years, so we talk a lot. She was a player, now she's coaching here and there. Also at the big tournaments, she is.   
We can just talk about hours about clothes, all the other stuff. It was nice change.   
 Q.  Four of your 15 titles have come in Asia. Are you embracing the differences of the culture and food more or do you still find it challenging?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Challenging. I think it's mostly because it's the end of the year, so somehow I'm always tired. Because all my seasons are quite let's say long, I play all the tournaments, I never miss anything. I still have about 50 matches every year. That's why maybe it's little bit more tough for me here than on the other tournaments.   
But anyway, I'm still able to find good tennis, to win couple titles. I went couple times in final. Overall I spent lot of time in Asia in the past couple years. Also when I started, I played lot of challengers here. Of course, getting used to it. Sometimes can be tough, especially for me the food.   
But anyway, I think the tournament organization is always trying to be perfect. It's everything kind of similar. Of course, the culture is different. It can be nice sometimes to go maybe to city and see some different things.   
Yeah, it's different to the other tournaments, but it's not that I don't enjoy. Maybe I'm little bit more tired, yeah.   
 Q.  Talking about tournament organization. Here there's foot massage, other perks. Have you been able to take advantage of any of those?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, not yet. I'm planning to go on nails. I show you next time (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT