US OPEN
September 1, 2019
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/K. Pliskova   
6-7, 6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think went wrong?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think she played extremely well at some points. Of course, I had my chances, maybe the set and break. I didn't play that well there. But I think overall, you know, she just went for it, she played more aggressive than maybe the matches what we played before.   
Yeah, I think overall was maybe a good match also to watch. I was serving much better than the matches before, but just was not enough.   
 Q.  The way she played so well, then the level was up and then went down, did that affect your rhythm?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, maybe a little bit. I would not say I lost my rhythm. I just maybe didn't play couple games the way I should. Maybe didn't serve that well in the middle of the second set.   
I know she can play well, I know she can miss a lot. That's what was happening a little bit on and off this match.   
But I think overall the important moments, she was always up in the third set and she always played great game. She was serving great. There was not much what I could do.   
 Q.  What happened at 5-All? She went to change her sweat bands. There was a bit of a delay. Did that affect you at all?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I don't think so. Not really thinking about this. Like I saw, but it was not in my mind. I just missed couple easy shots which maybe I didn't miss for all match. That's what happens sometimes.   
 Q.  How do you look at the Grand Slam season?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't know. Tough to really say right now. But I think I had some good matches, of course. Still positive that pretty much every time I got in the second week, not losing in the first, second rounds, which is -- it's not that I would be super happy from it, but it's always better I have this chance to compete against these good players. Then thereafter it's always 50/50 maybe or so.   
For sure today I could won. A couple more matches Wimbledon, I could won. Paris, not really. Yeah, little bit up and down.   
 Q.  What makes her difficult? Any particular shots she plays that it's easy to miss?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I would not say she has something really special. I think she has everything just really good. All the shots, backhand, forehand for me, it's similar. She can serve very well. I think also the second serve, for a girl, she has a good kick on the serve.   
We played many times. That's for sure her best match what we played together. She just went for it.   
Of course, she's having great season again. I think not always she can be this consistent, but so far I think she was also playing quite easy all the matches here. That's maybe why she's dangerous.   
 Q.  Hard courts from here to the end of the season. Is that something to look forward to?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Holidays (smiling). Not really China, but I still go. Let's see. Of course, Shenzhen, if I get in, would be nice. So let's see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT