US OPEN
August 28, 2019
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ka. PLISKOVA/M. Bolkvadze   
6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  On Monday you weren't terribly happy with the results of the first-round match. I would have to think you feel better about the way you played today. Can you comment on that?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, of course I feel better about today's match, but a lot of things were different. Of course center court is little different. I just always enjoy to play there. Of course opponent was little different. Not from my country.   
Yeah, I guess she was a little bit nervous too. So kind of some things were a little different. My nerves were a little less than the first day. Yeah, I thought I was enjoying more. Just playing better.   
Always helps when you get the first match done. Then doesn't matter what is in the next round. You always feel better. At least I do. I thought everything was just somehow better.   
 Q.  And your level of confidence? Do you feel a little bit better now than you did 48 hours ago?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, it was not about confidence at all. So my confidence is just fine (smiling).   
But it was maybe about a little bit, you know, always -- I was here about 10 days before the tournament, so it just was too long. And then of course you're wondering what is happening, what's going to happen on the court and if you're going to win or lose or this or that. I think I was just maybe thinking too much. I think I was a little bit more nervous than I am sometimes.   
But today everything is as it should be.   
 Q.  Playing indoors today, what did you make of the conditions and how did you adjust to the atmosphere? Quite loud in there.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, of course lucky that I could play there, because now everybody is going to maybe start at 4:00. That's perfect. I was also able to maybe warm up on the center court under the roof which kind of helped because I felt it was quite different compared to play outdoor.   
I played couple times already with the roof and on the center court, so I thought it's quite noisy still. So it was last year and the year before, as well. That's how it is. You have some time to get used to it. I was there maybe about an hour or maybe a little more. I thought I did well.   
You cannot change these things, so I just thought I just got used to it and it was fine.   
 Q.  Being sort of a perfectionist that you are, how did you channel that in matches to try to drive you to play better? Does it make you sometimes too frustrated? How have you dealt with that mindset over the years?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, it can be tough because sometimes I don't want to miss anything and everything, even when I make some good balls or good winners I just still find something it was maybe not that clean, the shot, or something.   
But with years and with some experience, it makes me, you know, feel better about it and just let some things go, which I was not able to do before. So even if the shot is not perfect or if it's perfect, it's the past now. Just keep forgetting things and start over and over again the point. That's what is happening me right now.   
But of course I can get angry with myself by being 6-1, 5-3 and missing a ball. But that's me, and I guess also because of this I'm playing the level I am because I'm not going to give up on any point and I just want to, you know, play every point perfect, which I know it's not possible.   
 Q.  Is there anything different about your preparation for the US Open versus other tournaments? Have you done anything differently recently?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No. I think no difference. Of course there is different in the surfaces, so I guess on clay maybe you just play different things than on hard court.   
But not that I would know. Well, the practices can change. The warmups can change a little bit. But only the shots maybe but not really that I would be playing two more hours before US Open, no (smiling).   
 Q.  This was her first time playing on this stage. What did you make of her form or her as a player today, your opponent?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I think, you know, I didn't see her at all before, not even practicing, not even seeing any match. I think she did quite well in the second set. The serve was not great but she's lefty so it's still kind of tricky to return sometimes.   
Of course she probably was nervous. The first set you could see. So she was missing way too much, and also compared to the second set, she was much better the second set.   
But I don't know how old is she actually. So she has some time to get better. Of course this helps always this kind of experience to play on these courts.   
 Q.  You'll have either Jabeur or Sasnovich. What kind of challenge do they present or are you relieved to be done?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, that's a big help. They have to still wait today and maybe they're not going to even get on court. I don't know what's the forecast.   
Of course I played Sasnovich I think once or twice. Jabeur I'm not sure if I played, but I know quite a lot because they are similar age as me. I remember a little bit from juniors and Kristyna played with them. So somehow I just feel like I know them little more than I did those two opponents which I had right now. That kind of helps sometimes. At least you have some feeling about them and about the game.   
But anyway, let's see. I don't even know who is the favorite of the match because they are not seeded I think, no?   
So yeah, I think it's going to be for them tough, and of course not an easy match for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT