THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 5, 2019
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/Hsieh S.
6-3, 2-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously always a challenge to play her.  How were you able to come out on top?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think I did quite good.  Of course, the second set was not the best, not as I wanted to have it.  I think I was just too good on the serve.  I had a lot of aces.
Pretty much all of the service games also in the third set were quite easy.  There was not that much trouble.  I think that's what I did better, of course, compared to last matches what I played her.
But of course, tricky, especially on grass.  She can make you feel ugly, which I felt at some points.  Of course, happy that I'm through.
Q. What did you do to prepare mentally and tennis-wise?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: It's tough to really prepare because sometimes I don't think she even know what she's going to play.  You have to be ready for everything.  We, of course, prepared little bit.  I played some slices with Conchi.  She likes, as well.  I think I was ready.
Sometimes, you know, the game is so different so you cannot really prepare for what she's playing.  Of course, the serve is not the best, but still I had some troubles with her serve because it stays so low.  She can hit fast.  She can hit dropshots.  It's a tough game.
But I think I did good.
Q. You hit some dropshots, some nice volleys today.  How pleased were you with that part of your game?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, it's not for sure my best game.  I know I can hit couple of those always.  Maybe I should try more to play this game.
But I think the people enjoy, so it was nice to be out there today on Court 1 for first time this year for me.  I had fun at some points.  Sometimes it was not easy, of course.  I think some rallies were nice for the people.  I was running way too much I think sometimes (smiling).
Yeah, some shots were very nice.
Q. Given that Conchi plays that kind of style, does she ever try to increase that in your game?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: What she play?
Q. More unpredictable style with slices, dropshots.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, but I don't think she's even close to Su-Wei.  She can hit the slice.  I like Conchi slice better than from Su-Wei.  Of course, she has the spin forehand which jumps quite high.  She has little bit different game, too.  Maybe that's why she was so tough here to face.
There are different matches, different players.  This one was tough one.
Q. You play another player with a lot of variety next round, Muchova.  How much do you know her?  What do you make of that opponent?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't think is going to be that similar to today.  I think there is nothing worse than today (smiling).  Doesn't matter what's going to happen.  For sure I will feel better.
Yeah, we played in Australia in the first round.  Of course she's improving with every month or with every tournament.  But I have my serve, I have my game.  It's quite far away now.  I'm not really thinking about it.  It's on Monday, so...
Q. How does it feel to be on this winning streak now?  Must feel nice.  You forgot what it's like losing.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I lost a set, so I'm very disappointed (smiling).
No, but, yeah, I'm feeling confident.  Of course, with every player you feel a little bit different.  Every court, so far I played every time different court.  It's like different challenges every time.
I'm feeling good.  I feel like my game is working.  Of course, the tournament in Eastbourne help me.  I'm on a roll.  I don't know if that's my longest streak of winning matches.  So far it's good.  Of course, there are opponents which are still beatable in the draw, so let's see what's going to happen.
Q. With Muchova and Vondrousova, have you been influential with players, helping keep the Czech tennis going?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: That's not my goal.  I only care about myself.  I know it's ugly.  It's this way in tennis.  I don't really look around.
For sure for Czech tennis, for Fed Cup, it's great that there is so many good players, young players.  There are some options.  For me, it's opponent.  I don't care which country she is.
Q. Do you agree with the new format of the Fed Cup?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, not really.  But nobody really asked me.  I'm not in charge of this.  It just happens.  It's for next year.  So for right now not really thinking about Fed Cup.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT