WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2019
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Ka. PLISKOVA/R. Peterson   
7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Which win is more exciting for you today?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think both but maybe doubles a little bit more (smiling).  Because it's not happening every day and because we don't get the chance to play that much.  So for sure a little bit happier about doubles.   
 Q.  Is it a relief to have the 10-point tiebreak, not having to worry about having to play a full third set?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, today for sure, because I spent a lot of time on court.  Also the singles was about two hours.  It's for sure.  But if you play two matches per day, then it's better to play super-tiebreak.  But, you know, some matches I would rather play normal set, but today was good.   
 Q.  You didn't know too much about Rebecca before the match.  What did you make of her game in the match earlier today?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I didn't know.  I saw only a little bit her playing somewhere and was practicing next to her, so I just know that the forehand is quite big.  She's, you know, solid from the forehand.   
So I think she was playing good.  Of course she improved during the match.  The beginning was not her best, but I had some chances to go 4-Love, didn't make it, and then was kind of tricky but for sure happy I played two sets because it could go three.  I was down a break in the second.  But I think I played solid.   
I was quite confident that I'm going to win because my game was working.  So at the important moments I felt like I played always good.  The serve was solid, too.  Not that many aces but a lot of first serves.  I think it was good match.   
 Q.  You play Sveta next.  She hasn't played much this year, but she's obviously doing well this tournament.  What do you expect from that match?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, for sure.  She didn't have many matches, but I think maybe sometimes can be good so she's a little bit more fresh and for sure excited.   
You can see I think she's more enjoying it a little bit right now.  She has win couple matches here and there, in Toronto, and I think here too.  I think she's quite confident, so she's back maybe where she kind of was.   
Well, I remember we played that year when I won the same court, so of course good memories from that match.  Always I felt like when I played her I played good tennis because she gives you rhythm.  You know, she just plays super solid.  Doesn't miss much.   
So good match always with her.  You know, I lost couple times, too, so I have to be super-aggressive and for sure chance.   
 Q.  Sveta won her first Grand Slam US Open 15 years ago.  Do you see yourself, like, around through injuries and all of that stuff for a long time the way she has been?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: What is the question, sorry?   
 Q.  Do you see yourself around at 34, 35 years old the way she kind of has been?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't know.  For now I have some limit but maybe it's gonna move.  It's tough to say.  Depends which level I'm going to be playing.  I don't want to be playing somewhere horrible and just traveling, and so if I'm good level, then I'll keep on playing.  And I need to enjoy, so that's important.   
She had some breaks, as well.  So it's also if you have maybe some injuries and breaks, then it feels like you didn't maybe play that much.  But so far I'm playing I feel like 10 years in a row (smiling).  So I don't know, really.   
 Q.  When is the last time you played somewhere horrible?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, it's like I don't want to drop my level.  I think last week I played horrible with Andreescu.  But I'm still capable of having some level, even though my feeling is maybe bad, but it's, like, I still can compete, and I was actually close to winning the match.  But if I start losing 6-1, 6-0, then I start thinking.   
 Q.  How tough is it at this section of the season?  Because talking to everyone and seeing everyone here in Toronto and Cincinnati, it feels like there is a little bit of a less energy...  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah.   
 Q.  You think so?  Would you agree?  Why do you think that?  How hard is it right now to motivate, even though there is a slam and lots to play for?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, maybe I felt in Toronto there was a little bit more energy because there was the break after Wimbledon.  So I felt like I didn't see the people for quite long time.  Actually, it was, like, three weeks but this is not normally happening.  So I was kind of excited to be back on tournament.   
But now it's, like, back to weeks of tennis and to weeks seeing same people, so maybe it's same for everybody.  I think this week can be for somebody a little bit more like that they are tired because some people they want to get to New York.  Some people they just want to go to the Bronx or whatever.   
So maybe it's like -- and the conditions can be tough, too.  So I feel maybe sometimes like no energy, too (smiling).   
But of course for me I enjoy, and it's hard court.  So it's not that I would be super down, but of course not, you know, not the best energy like in the beginning of the year.   
But there is New York, so I think in New York everything just starts from zero and energy, all the city is always big.  Doesn't matter how much down I feel here or I feel, like, there is always going to get a little bit better.   
 Q.  What is your favorite thing to do in Mason?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I went cinema one day, and we are trying to change restaurants a little bit here and there.  But so far I was a lot here.   
 Q.  What did you see?  What movie did you watch?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Hobbs & Shaw, the Fast & Furious.   
 Q.  I saw a video where you said when you were four or five you used to wee in your pants all the time.  Curious what your sister thought of it or if she was the same?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think she was the same.  Maybe worse.  We were normally same in everything, and we still are.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT