THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 3, 2019
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/M. Puig   
6-0, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How are you feeling about your game, third round again?  How you doing?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Good.  I think was much better than the first round for sure today.  Little bit trouble in the end, but I think that's normal.  She also has some chance to play good tennis.  So she played.   
I think was so far the best here.  I felt the best here in Wimbledon today.  The court was super nice, a little bit faster than the outside courts.  So it was good.   
 Q.  How tough has it been with the court speed this year?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I mean, I just can compare now three courts.  I warm up on Court 10, then Court 2, and Centre Court.  Centre for sure the fastest for me.  I just like that much better than the Court 2.  Normally Court 2 is not my favorite here.   
 Q.  How does it feel for you right now playing the way that you've been playing through Eastbourne and now here?  Do you feel it's the movement that you're really enjoying, the ball striking?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think everything.  For sure my serve is somehow working.  Also the second serve.  That's obviously a big help.  Of course, the movement on grass has to be much better than sometimes on the other surfaces.  I'm feeling like I'm quite low on a lot of balls.   
Yeah, just ready to play these girls, which they play fast, flat.  I'm always staying quite down.  I think I was just, since Eastbourne, started to play well.  Feel much better on the court.  Of course, with the confidence, which I have, it's going little bit easier.  Of course, it's not going to be forever like this.   
But, yeah, I feel like I improve also from the first round.  I was a little bit nervous.  I was feeling good today.  Hopefully it can be better again in the third one.   
 Q.  How would you describe your third-round opponent Hsieh Su-Wei?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: For sure tricky.  We played couple times.  Both matches were strange.  But it was hard court.  Let's see what it's going to be on grass.   
I don't think it's going to be any difference in her game.  Maybe she's going to use more her slices and this kind of stuff because on grass it's quite effective.   
But let's see.  I mean, she beat good players here last year, too.  I remember she beat Simona.  She can be tough.  I think if I play fast enough, she's not going to have enough time to do these things as she's doing always.  On serve I should be better.   
But of course it's tricky opponent.   
 Q.  Every tennis player is different in their style.  She seems completely different.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I think she's far away from everybody (smiling).  The style is just, I don't know, nobody has it.  Nobody really practice the way she does.  Yeah, but that's why maybe she's so good.  That's why nobody really likes to play her, because it's just different.   
It's not unbeatable.   
 Q.  Have you practiced with her before?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: We played couple matches.  I don't feel like practicing with her.   
 Q.  Why not?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't know.  You want to go and play normal tennis and not this tennis in practice, so...   
 Q.  She has a way of making opponents feel uncomfortable.  Obviously that's her goal, move you out of position.  How uncomfortable does she make a player like you feel when playing at her best?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I feel like it's still a lot about me.  I don't want to be really thinking too much about what she's doing because I know if I play fast, it happened in the past, I beat her not really easy, but in Dubai I should have won the tournament in Dubai, the match.   
I feel like if I play good tennis, if I serve well, she still cannot do much.  But, of course, if you give her the chance and the time, the angles, then she can be dangerous because she has good hands.  She was playing lot of doubles of course in her life.  She can play at the net.  She just tries to play the shots which nobody likes.   
But, yeah, I don't want to be that much on her side.  I just want to stay on my side of the court.   
 Q.  Where would you say women's sport was as a whole, not just tennis, but in terms of its journey towards equality?  Where would you say it is right now?  Have we come about 20% or 30%?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: To compare with mens?   
 Q.  Just general sport, yeah, comparing with the men.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I think it's for sure close.  Maybe 30, 40, I don't know.  Don't ask me because I'm playing.  I don't want to say that I'm so much worse than men.  Depends on the people.   
I felt like sometimes the people, they still watch better womens, they like more, is interesting, there can be more surprises.  Of course, you can never compare mens.  The speed, the power, it's going to be always different.   
Of course, tennis-wise it's different level.  That's what we know.  But still some people, I think they like to watch more women.  Of course, I mean, it's getting better because everybody is fighting for it.  There are even couple mens which are quite on our side.   
Of course, I know and I accept that it's different tournament, the men's tournament.  I mean, it's interesting, too, I think sometimes the women's matches.  But for sure it's still better for people to watch the men's.   
 Q.  I actually meant more on a social, cultural thing, even economics-wise.  Do you think women, in terms of getting stuff, sponsorship, recognition, do you think we've come a long way, just very little to go, or women have come most of the way?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, this is very tough question to ask.  I don't know and I don't care because I'm happy with what I have.  Of course, not always is going to be easy for women to get the same what the men, they have, the sponsors, whatever you mean, I don't know.   
But, you know, we still have something, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT