INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
September 21, 2020
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/Ka. Pliskova
6-0, 2-1 [Ret.]
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. A tough way to finish the tournament today after playing so well throughout the week.  Could you just explain when the injury happened and how it affects you playing?  Will you be ready in time for Roland Garros?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   No, I mean, I hope to be ready, but there is a week, so I think that's plenty of time.  You know, I know I can play on Sunday in Paris, but still, there is couple days which I hope is gonna help a lot.
I have to see the doctor just to see if it's nothing like really that heavy kind of injury.  But I hope not, but of course I think it's combination of just playing now every day and tough matches.  And of course even I played some two-set matches, but it's still clay, which I was coming quite fast from hard court.  A lot of sliding and a lot of actually running, and especially yesterday the match -- or last two matches, I think I felt actually from the match with Mertens, and it was like growing with every day.
And yesterday I was like already feeling like, okay, if this match goes like three sets, then it's going to be very difficult.  But I could finish, and I was in the (indiscernible) was there so that's why I could finish still strong.
But this morning and in the night I felt like it's not really good.  For half second was thinking if I should even play.  I mean, you still want to go and try.
Yeah, although I'm sure it didn't look really good, but, yeah, that's was my decision.  Huge credit to Simona.  If there is somebody else, maybe it would be like still possible, but she doesn't give you much for free.  I would have to be really 100% ready.
Q. Was there anything from the match today that you could take away into the French Open or from this week that you could maybe make a good run with the injury or not?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Oh, from this week, for sure, I think all the matches I played.  But from this match I think there was not really anything.  I mean, I was not really like there and the game was not there, my legs were not there.  I think this game was more fighting with myself and with the injury.
So definitely not from this, but I think all week I was playing quite good tennis.  You know, I beat some good players on the clay, which is always good before this big tournament in Paris, just to have some matches, because in America I didn't have many of them.  Of course that's positive.
Q. Following up on that a bit, was there anything in particular you were pleased with your game throughout this week that kind of gives you the confidence for Roland Garros?  You were kind of in a similar situation last year.  I'm wondering, what's the mentality like this year?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   I think just like not making the title is maybe better, because every time I go to slam I win a tournament before.  Maybe that can be the difference.
But, you know, last year I played Martic on clay, so I think that was quite tough draw and a tough match.  But of course nothing like unbeatable, but also depends who I play.  There is some girls which they play amazing on clay.
But, yeah, I don't think I'm a favorite there.  Actually, now like in last couple of slams, I would not really think about being favorite there.  But we know I can play good tennis, so we just have to wait when it's gonna come (smiling).
Q. Does it matter to you or affect you mentally at a major whether you're considered a favorite or not?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   No, I think it's not about, you know, if I'm favorite or not.  I think I just somehow sometimes find it difficult to play, you know, good tennis couple matches in a row.
And of course I have been facing some good players I feel like in the Grand Slams always.  So sometimes you need luck to just get through some tough matches.
Let's see.  There is another one.  I don't really have a plan how to go there, but I think just to have some matches like I had here, that's how I have to play.  Now I know this should work, even on clay, so that's gonna be my plan.
Q. Can you just specify what the injury is?  Is it leg, back?  It wasn't clear from the trainer, but I know you obviously have tape on your leg.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yeah, so it's the left thigh on the left leg.
Q. You started feeling it against Mertens, you said?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yeah.
Q. Well done, and thanks for coming out there and giving it a shot.  I wonder if you felt something like this before?  Seems like you're not very concerned about how you'll pull up at Roland Garros.  Is it in your mind that you just need a couple days of rest and you'll be 100%?  Is it something familiar that you felt before, or is it a new type of injury?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   I mean, I used to have some kind of injury.  I think this one -- maybe I had it once or twice.  But of course it comes with a lot of matches and with a lot of playing.
Now it's kind of like understandable, because it's clay.  You slide more.  I just had couple days in a row like very difficult matches.  I was finishing late in the day, so there was not many time to really recover, which would also make a difference.
You know, I don't want to like judge now, because I'm not a doctor, I'm not a physio.  I just know my feeling, which is not great for now.
Maybe if they say it's just need like two days off and then it's gonna be, you know, feeling much better, then I could easily start to move and to practice.  But I really want to be 100% ready, because if I want to go far in a Grand Slam, then it's going to be, like, two weeks of tennis, which I'm not sure today I can do.  I just need to see what the doctors, they're gonna say.
Q. Wondering if you heard about the players and the Roland Garros qualifying tournament testing positive, and if that raises the concern level at all about traveling to Paris or maybe when you might decide to go there or that type of thing, and if the tournament has sent any information to the players regarding that.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   I have heard some news, but of course I have been in the tournament here so it's not something what I would be like really discussing and thinking about.
But I know there has been couple of people positive.  I know Europe now, especially, okay, my country is not doing that great.  Couple countries, as well.  So I think it's really many people again that are sick.
You have to be really careful where you go, and still you don't know if you can get it or where you can get it and from who.  I mean, that's the situation right now.
But definitely not thinking not to go because of just, you know, having some people positive there.  I still have to be more careful maybe, but still, the plan is to go.
Q. Directly from Rome?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Yeah.
Q. Finally, a word on Simona, the way she's played this week and on clay generally.  Do you see her as a favorite for Roland Garros?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA:   Of course, I think she's gonna be like the most favorite from the women's tournament, because I think also the way she played, she played already, you know, Prague on clay.  She won this tournament.
So I feel like she's confident.  Now she won two tournaments on clay, so I think she's confident enough and she's done well there.  So for sure she's gonna be dangerous.
I know the weather is not looking that great in Paris, so I think the conditions just to like play aggressive game against her is gonna be quite tough.
And she had big success in Paris, so I think she's gonna be one of my like favorite to go for the title.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT