NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 26, 2019
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Ka. PLISKOVA/E. Mertens
6-1, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Looked like you were in a hurry.  Was that to beat the weather or just to get the match over and done with quickly?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I think -- I was not really rushing.  Maybe the last game because it started to rain.  But overall, I think everything just went a little bit my way today since the beginning.
I felt like, it's bad to say, but there is no chance that I'm going to lose today.  I don't know.  I just felt super confident after what I made the quick break in the first set, and I just thought, like, she's not playing game which I don't like.
So everything just went a little bit, you know, smoother for me.  I was serving well.  So the wind was not the best, of course, but I think everything was good play.
Q. Do you feel like your confidence is coming back?  You seem to be able to cruise through.  Are you feeling particularly good about your game now?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, but the confidence was never really, you know, away from me.  This year of course I had some -- I lost in Paris, lost to my sister, but it's not about confidence.  You can still lose.
But I feel good on court.  I think there are good things which I'm doing.  What we do in practice I'm able to do in the match, which is positive.
Of course here I always felt somehow good on these courts.  I feel happy, and, yeah, so far I play good tennis this tournament.
Q. You mentioned practice.  Are there any changes you have made to the way you practice or to your game this year?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, of course, because I have different coach than I had last year this time.  But not huge changes.  It's about small things.  Some different exercises, of course.
But, you know, everybody's quite on the same page what we want to play.  So the game plan is still the same, so there is no changes.  But, yeah, I feel like with Conchita everything is working, so everything what we do is just getting better.
Q. And I take it you really relish the grass court season?  Because you always seem to do well this time of year.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, but not the best.  Let's see (smiling).
You know, I have a couple matches now which is good, so doesn't matter what's gonna happen this week now.  I think I'm ready to start Wimbledon in good shape.  We will see what's gonna happen.  I think on grass it's like it doesn't always have to go your way.  You need a little bit of luck, because there can be some tricky shots and tricky opponents on grass, of course.  So let's see what it's gonna be in Wimbledon.
Q. Do you think perhaps on grass there is more chance of coming up against an opponent who just plays brilliantly, and the surface, with its strange bounces, do you think that makes it more difficult playing someone that well?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I always felt like grass and clay, there are some players which are just, you know, maybe better than some others, but on hard court you really need to play good to win, to beat everybody.
But on grass maybe there is -- you always see some players which are having only good results on grass, you know.  That's also men's, women's, and of course the best players, they always play good on all the surfaces, but I think some players are just a little bit more tough than the others because of the game.
And on grass, of course if you know how to use slice or if you know how to serve and volley or stuff like this, you can be dangerous.
Q. Is it an unusual situation for you to find yourself mentally saying halfway through the tournament that you feel ready already for Wimbledon?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, because I was in the situation last couple years here in Eastbourne, so I just want to play full here.  So I'm still not thinking about Wimbledon, but I know whatever is gonna happen here, I'm just ready to go there.
But of course I want to stay till the last day here, and then I'm going to be start thinking about, you know, whatever is gonna happen there, like draw and this stuff.
But I'm still here, and I think if I continue and if I play even more matches, it only can help me.  So I'm not, like, with my mind in London right now (smiling).
Q. A lot of the Czech players stick to Czech coaches.  It's been a couple years now since you have moved away from that, and also had female coaches.  Obviously it's working for you.  I'm curious why you made that change.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I thought just I have enough of Czech people and Czech coaches, you know, because there was a lot of changes, a lot of things still happening.
We are small country, so it's like a village, so everybody is talking about everybody.  So I thought it's just the right time to leave (smiling).  Not the country, but the Czech coaches.
And I thought was the best decision what I have ever made.  Actually, maybe I could do it even earlier, because I feel -- you know, I'm not talking about any other players in Czech.  We just have our own way.  Maybe a little bit different than they have, the rest.
So I'm happy.  Doesn't matter who's gonna be there in my box.  Right new it's Conchita.  Of course it's great.  But if I could choose, for sure I don't go back to anybody from Czech.
Q. Also, having female players, as well, does that add an extra dimension to the coaching advice that you get?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: You know, I was never really against women or against men.  So I'm just whatever is gonna come, I just take it.  Like, I always gonna respect also women, so it's not about that I can only have men which it was in the past.  But there is not that many good women coaches.
But somehow Conchita showed up.  Of course before I was with Rennae.  Maybe in future it's gonna be again men.  So I don't have really like strict plan that I have to have a man for a coach.  But I think Conchita, she had enough experience of being both player and coach, so that's why it's working.
Q. I need one more music recommendation from you.  You recommended Karel Gott last week.  Can I have another one for this week, please?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, it had to be my sister.  I would never recommend you Karel Gott (smiling).
No, he's good, but I don't really like listen that much music.  For sure Kristyna told you.  She's more like old style.
From Czech, did you listen, Karel Gott?
Q. Yes.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: But it's more like -- yeah, maybe for you, not for me (smiling).
Q. That's why I was wanting another recommendation.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I'm listening a lot of Czech music, actually.  Some country style, sometimes depends which mood.  Tough to say one now.  Sorry.  Later.  (Smiling.)
Q. Have you given any thought to your next opponent?  I know Alexandrova won the first set.  It could be Ostapenko, also.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, I played both.  Not on grass but on the other surfaces, yes.  I think both, not that I would really follow, but I know the results from pretty much all the tournaments.  I think they are just improving.
Also, Jelena this year has won couple matches, beat good players.  She beat Sloane yesterday.  Of course if I face Jelena, the surface should be my advantage.  And from the baseline I think she's super dangerous for everybody.
And Alexandrova I know as well.  We played just once, but we had some practices in the past.  So I quite know she can be dangerous, too.  She hits flat shots fast.
But I think if I continue to play like I was playing -- it's not probably gonna be like today, but it should be fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT