ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2019
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. MARTIC/K. Pliskova   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That was a little bit not the direction you would have wanted to go, but Martic has done well here before.  What do you take from a defeat like that?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, of course 6-3, 6-3 is not something I was hoping for today.  I think she played well.  For sure I could do better.   
Actually, I think the score was closer than it really was in the end, so I think I had some chances couple games, I should definitely not lose couple of serves in the first set when I was up in the games.  She just made it difficult today for me.   
I think, like I said before, I think the court is pretty slow, so you just have to play some extra shots.  She just have this kind of game which, you know, you don't feel good about, and I think she played well.   
 Q.  I was just wondering whether you agree with the rule at the Grand Slams where a coach is not allowed onto the court to give you advice between sets or whether you would prefer the coach to be allowed to give you advice between the sets?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, I prefer no coaches anywhere.   
 Q.  This is a player that's given you a lot of trouble over the years.  What is it about her style which just creates the difficulty for you?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, so far I remember we played just two times in last maybe four years, so I don't remember we played any other matches.   
Yeah, well, we played Miami, so I think hard court is a little bit different to play, you know, her on hard court.  I think it's better for me.  Obviously she's playing well this year, especially on clay.  She won titles so she's playing confident.  She was serving well.  She just sometimes went for her shots and then she was patient.  I think on clay it's just too difficult always to just go for it.   
I don't know.  I think I just didn't play that well.  Maybe I was a little bit, at some points, passive, maybe not that fast.  My serve wasn't really working.  I don't think she did much wrong today, so I think she played clever.  She was patient.  I just did too many mistakes.   
 Q.  How different did you find the conditions this week here in Paris compared to Rome?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think for sure slower, also the balls, I think was the main difference.   
So far I think the fastest court was the Simonne Mathieu, but the center court, I played twice, and twice it was slow (smiling).   
 Q.  Could you chat to us briefly about your previous experiences at Wimbledon and what you are looking forward to at Wimbledon this year?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Um, of course I'm looking forward to Wimbledon.  I think no Birmingham for me.  I just gonna play Eastbourne.  But we will see now.  It's too early to think about grass (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT