BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2019
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








B. BENCIC/K. Pliskova
6-3, 4-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A solid match.  What do you think was the difference?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't think I was even close to what I want to play, actually, today.  It looked okay maybe, but I don't think it was that good from my side.
She was playing good, I think, as normal.  She's playing this way I think for last couple of weeks, for sure.
You can see that she's quite confident.  In some points I think she is going for it more.  She has been lucky couple times.
I just this way, but I was struggling I think a little bit with myself since the beginning of the match.  Physically it was tough somehow today, and the wind didn't help much.  So my serve was bad, my shots were bad (smiling).
Yeah, I think still good that I fought, that it went to the third set.  But otherwise, yeah, not even close to my good tennis.
Q. Conchita was saying that she wants to see a lot more aggression from you.  It looked like a slow start from you today.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I was slow today.  Yeah, that's how it is.
Q. Any particular reason for that?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think I was just maybe a little bit tired.  Also, the court, for me first time playing there, so I just somehow was losing the balls.  I don't know.  Of course it's much bigger than the courts where I played, so took me a little bit while.
First set was obviously quite bad, but, yeah, I started to feel a little bit, just a little bit better in the second set.  But I think she was just playing too solid today.  Her backhand is, of course, her weapon.  She was using the wind, I think, better.
Of course Conchita wants me to play a little bit more aggressive, but when you're not that fast and not feeling your shots, then it's tough to go for it.
Q. It was a great match to watch, even though you don't think you played well.  It really was.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I feel better.
Q. The rallies.  I mean, you don't feel that at all?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No.  No, but it's good to hear (smiling).  I think you're the only one quite positive about the match.
Q. What do you do after this?  Will you go back and look at it and see what positives you can get, or is it literally, it was a bad match for me, that's it, it's done?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, of course we are going to talk about it.  I don't know if to look, maybe yes.  But the feeling was not great, so I don't know if there is something really what we should see on this match.
But of course we need to move with it, so I want to get some mistakes better.  I don't want to do it again, of course.  I just want to do better next time.
So now, since I played her for first time, it's also, you know, the matchup was, I think, not easy by playing her now.  She's just in good shape right now, and we never played.  Also, I didn't know a little bit what to expect.  Of course I know her quite well from practices and some matches.
But, yeah, we are gonna take the positives, if there are some, and we are gonna move.
Q. When you play her today, can you see why she's won 12 straight matches?  Can you explain the quality that you saw?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think she's -- she tries to play all the balls pretty early in the court.  That's her biggest weapon.  She can see the balls quite early.  So she can, you know, guess sometime the sides.
The serve I think she improved since last time we played in the practice.  We didn't play couple years.  But the serve, I think she could serve some breakpoints down, or some important moments she served quite well, I thought.
Sometimes you're just winning matches.  You're not thinking.  I know this feeling.  I think she's right now in kind of this way where if she's not thinking much and just playing.  She's playing good.  I think she's quite solid from the baseline.
It's not that she would be, you know, killing some balls or acing me like every game, but she's solid.  She doesn't give you much.  She moves well, and she's confident.  That's about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT