AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2019
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a way to reach your first Australian Open semifinal.  I think you put your fans and particularly your player box through a lot of stress.  Set and a break, what happened?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think she improved her game, especially in the second set.  She went for her shots, was more aggressive.  I was struggling a little bit on that side.  Was against the wind, so it's tough to play against Serena, against the wind, too.   
She was playing very well, especially the end of the second set, she went for her shots, was more aggressive.  I played too passive.  On one hand, I was almost in the locker room, but now I'm standing here as a winner, so I'm a very good feeling.   
 Q.  Why weren't you in the locker room 5-1 down?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: My mind was in the locker room.  I was still here.  It was tough because she was really playing well.  I didn't have many chances in the third set.  I was a little bit too passive, obviously mentally down.  This side was still better for me.  I just said, Let's try this game.  On 5-2 maybe I'm going to have couple chances.  She did get a little bit shaky in the end.  I took my chances and I won.   
 Q.  You'll be out here tomorrow.  Do you know who you play?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Naomi.   
 Q.  You play Naomi Osaka.  Potentially another wonderful semifinal.  Just a few thoughts on playing the US Open champion.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I'm happy that I finally play two days in a row.  I like it, of course.  I'll be ready for tomorrow.  We played a few times.  She's having great run since the US Open.  She's dangerous.   
I don't think there is somebody more dangerous than Serena.  So far I'm going to enjoy this one and then tomorrow I'll see.   
 Q.  You haven't got a lot of time to recover.  Are you going to keep to the same routine?  I here you're superstitious about where you eat at night.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Little bit.  Everybody is going to ice bath with me, our routine, then we go to the same restaurant.  Try to keep the things which are working.  We're doing the same.  Hopefully they can work tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT