BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
December 31, 2018
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Karolina, you said before the tournament that you might have a little bit of rust from not playing the points.  So how would you rate that match in terms of knocking off the rust?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, I didn't feel that bad.  You know, even though I was losing set and a break in the second, I was still pretty positive, because I felt I'm missing, but only like, you know, small out here and there, so I just felt like the ball on the racquet I felt pretty good.  But still, even though I played a lot of points here this week, still, the match is completely different, so there is different tension than in the practice.  So I'll just have to get used to it a little bit, to find the rhythm, and I found it, I think, the other half, second half of the match was pretty solid.   
 Q.  When you're in that position down set and a break, no matter who you're playing what are you telling yourself mentally?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: You know, if you play somebody like Yulia, there's little opportunities so break, to get back into the match because she's not going to ace you that much.  So I felt I had it in my hands, so if I tried to play a little more stable, not miss that much, I felt like I could still get my chances, and I did and then I break two times in the second set and one break in the third set was enough, but I felt like I have so many opportunities to, you know, even in the first set, although I lost it, I felt like I had so many chances.   
 Q.  Can you compare what the nerves feel like before playing the first match of the season compared to, I don't know, stepping on the court for a Slam final, for big matches?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I didn't feel that nervous.  Actually, zero, because the pressure is different because you don't really expect anything, and actually, I didn't really know what to expect, what's going to come, because I know I practiced a lot.  But still, tournaments with people, it's different, you know.  It's ball kids with lines and umpires so everything feels different.  But I didn't feel nervous.  I know it was for sure not the best tennis, but I enjoyed it.  I like to compete, so two months without a match was too much for me.   
 Q.  When you come back to a place like this where you've obviously had great success, winning here in 2017, does that help you mentally or how do you sort of relate to coming back to Brisbane?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yes, of course I had -- even the years before, even last year I had great wins, good matches here, so I feel it's almost like indoor.  I always play well indoor.  So I feel good on this court, so there is no reason why I cannot repeat what I did two years ago.  I feel it's pretty fast, which is important for my game.  You know, it's good.  I can hit some aces which I did today and if I play aggressive there is a chance that I am going to make a lot of points, so I feel good on this court for sure.   
 Q.  Rennae said that you and Conchita and she have figured out a schedule for the season.  Are one of them going to be with you at every tournament you play or when they're not there, what's your plan in terms of coaching?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I would not take it as -- you know, I don't want to look that deep in the year.  I just take it, you know, maybe a month, month in advance and tournament from tournament.  So right now we are set for Australia.  Then, of course, we are somehow a little bit set for all the year, but I think everything can change.  And we can talk always.  Depends who is more free, who is more busy.  They both have their things.  One is having TV.  One is having some China things.  So, you know, I have still my dad, which is -- you know, he made two titles this year, so if I need to make title, I just take him.  No, I'm joking, I'm sure I can make title also with Rennae and Conchita.  But anyway, I'll just try to combine somehow and for sure it's going to be a good plan.   
 Q.  Do you feel like there is the space to have this model?  I mean obviously you like it, the indoor sort of setting, but would you like to see more of tennis courts like this where it's outdoors but kind of has the indoor atmosphere?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think this is the only one, actually, which is like half open and half closed, and I pretty like it because you can feel the heat, which is not mine you don't feel it.  But I like it, you can play also when it's raining, but of course, it's different, next week if you go in the sun in Sydney or Melbourne, it can be 40 degrees, and it can kill you a little bit.  But I like it.  I like these conditions.  It's not going to get that windy because it's pretty close.  So it's always better when the wind is not there and I always feel these conditions are better for me.   
 Q.  And how are you going to celebrate the new year?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: So far I am falling asleep at 9 every day.  So I'm not sure, but I want to push today and I want to go through and I want to wait because tomorrow I have doubles, but I think in the afternoon because Daria is playing singles.  So I'm going to have a chance to sleep maybe a little bit later.  Or I can set my alarm at least for 11:50.   
 Q.  So nothing major?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No.  But maybe I'm going to have a drink with my team because at least a little bit, and especially when I won, so at least a little bit we can celebrate.   
 Q.  I think there is the kiddy fireworks here.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I know.  I can make this one.  (Laughs).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT