BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 21, 2018
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/C. Wozniacki   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That had to feel pretty good to put down a performance like that.  How do you rate that in terms of a match that you have played this year against top quality opposition?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, we didn't play this year with Caro, so it was a little bit different that we didn't meet for a year.  I remember last year we played a lot.  So I was just happy that I got this top win against a top player.  So it's always very positive, always give me extra confidence to beat player like this.   
And especially her, you really have to beat because she's not gonna give you anything much.  Although she was missing pretty much in the first set, but the second set she played much better, and I had to really fight for it.  I was just happy that I close it in the second.   
 Q.  In your opening service game you didn't miss a first serve, but you had to save two break points from there.  How much confidence did it give you to get out of that game?  And talk about saving 10 break points today.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: 10 of 10, I know.  I think that's the best statistic on my serve on the break points ever.  So, you know, actually in the last game I was also thinking about the previous game where I was 15-40 down I think like two times, three times in the match.  So I just tried to turn it.   
I know my serve was quite okay today.  The percentage was pretty high.  So, you know, I just tried to hit first serves.  The surface here, if you try to mix the speed, it's working well.  So I tried to do that.   
You know, I think I played pretty well on my service games.  Not always under control, but, you know, she's a good player so she's gonna put a lot of balls back, you know, make you work for it.  Pretty happy with the performance.   
 Q.  You haven't always loved this surface.  Caroline, by contrast, has really enjoyed it, winning it last year.  Are you doing anything different?  Are you adjusting to it any kind of way, or is it playing differently maybe than it was last year?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't know what is different.  Every year is different, you know.  The surface, maybe it's the same but every player change with the years.   
There are some things different.  Maybe I'm a little bit more tired, but I felt good today, actually.  I think she played better last year, the match what we played, for sure.  But it was semis, so she had few matches under her belt, as well.   
For sure she's gonna improve with every match what she's gonna play this time here.  First match, it's tough to defend such a big title here.  I don't know how she felt, but I felt good, let's say.  Let's not say amazing, but let's say good.   
 Q.  Last year when you played against Caroline you had all those set points in the first set, so how much was that in your mind when you faced her again today?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Zero, actually.  So I didn't think about it, not even for a second, because it was different match last year, different story.  I think we played both much better last year, so it was very close, the set.  I had chances.  Then she had chances.  So it was very close, the set.   
You know, I felt like I have a lot of chances today on her serve, too.  I could be double break up already like 30 minutes ago before I was serving for the match, so I felt like even though it would be 5-All, maybe I felt like I have a good chance to win this match.   
 Q.  Just talking about Rennae a little bit, when she came down on court, sometimes a lot of coaches, when they come out on court, they kind of inundate or tell their players a lot, all they need to be doing, changing, alternating, all these sorts of tactics.  Seems like she was good about saying everything you're doing is fine and the scoreboard is in your favor.  Is that the positivity you refer to when you talk about what she's brought to your team?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, first time I called her after set so there was not much, but I just wanted to maybe hear if she sees something a little bit different off the court, but there was not much things I was doing wrong after the first set.   
But second time I had some break points, and I didn't make it, I was getting a little bit frustrated with myself.  So I was, like, maybe that's the time to call her, the positive woman (smiling).  And she was actually positive, as always.  She said, Look, you're still break up, which was true, actually.  So I didn't panic and I closed it.   
 Q.  I think you've got Svitolina next.  Just your thoughts on that matchup?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, I think it's good that I play her, so the style is very similar to Wozniacki.  You know, there is going to be a lot of rallies.  She's running a lot.  We know that.  We played so many times.  Actually not for last year.  We played Brisbane last match.   
But I saw her playing a couple of matches.  She was playing actually very well today.  I saw a little bit.  So she was fighting a lot.  I didn't see her actually playing that well for a few weeks when I was following her a little bit on tournaments.   
So it's going to be very tough.  I know she wants to win a lot.  So me too.  So it's going to be great battle.   
 Q.  This tournament has seemed, in the last few years, to reward the players who kind of had to play a lot to get in here.  They are still in match rhythm.  Sometimes when you qualify too early you shut it down.  Not you, but a player shuts it down, and it can be difficult to get the rhythm back.  Do you see any truth to that, that maybe the last few weeks of nonstop play has actually helped you today?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I mean, I think for everybody is good to have matches.  So once you have matches, you know, you have the confidence of playing.  Doesn't matter which situation.   
So I played a lot of matches.  Doesn't matter which level, but I just played.  It's always positive.   
You always feel better by coming on the court by having a lot of matches in the last few weeks.  So I feel like that's important, but not only with me but I think with everybody.  And that's true, everybody who was playing in the last few years here came -- I mean, Domi, when she won, she was playing till the last moment.  Last year was Garcia, Kuznetsova.  Because of the tournament, I feel like they are pretty similar to this, there is a lot of indoor tournaments the weeks before, so you can really get used to it.  And the matches can really help you to get the confidence back and just to be playing.  And by knowing here you have some (indiscernible) of matches, it can only help, too.   
 Q.  The taping that was on your leg, is that of concern?  And when did you start to feel that?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Actually this morning (smiling).  I don't know what is wrong with me, but, you know, it's end of the season.  So I have now two days, so I'm sure it's going to be fine.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT