CHINA OPEN
September 28, 2018
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  After upsetting the US Open champion Naomi Osaka in Tokyo, you had an early exit in the Wuhan Open.  What is your momentum looking like?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: After when I got the Tokyo title, I felt super tired because I just had one day for recover.  It was difficult tournament there.  Wuhan was really not the best for me.   
But I feel good.  I feel much better now.  Had few days off.  Today was my first practice day.  Hopefully I'm not going to start earlier than on Sunday.  The draw is pretty tough.  I play Stosur.   
I felt good on the practice today, so there's no reason why I cannot play.   
 Q.  After the disappointment in Wuhan, what do you think you can carry on from Tokyo technically and mentally here in Beijing for a successful run?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I learn from matches, even the one in Wuhan.  I lost, but look, she's in semis.  Not easy draw, easy match.  Obviously, I wanted to do better.  We have 30 tournaments every year, so I'm not disappointed with every tournament where I lose.   
But obviously I want to do better here.  It's the biggest tournament, last of the season here.  Obviously we all need the points for Singapore.  The better I do, the bigger chance I have to get there.  We'll just see how things goes.   
I think the draw is okay.  It's for sure difficult, but I just want to do the best I can here.   
 Q.  How have you been preparing mentally and physically for this tournament?  How have you been maintaining your energy?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think this part of the season, it's just tough for everybody because it's last few tournaments in the year.  Everything is pretty far.  Everybody is just flying a long way to Asia.  It's just pretty difficult, even like for the mental side.   
Also it's good on one side.  If you know there are no more tournaments after, you can just put everything into it, try to also enjoy a little bit more tennis, then you have off-season, you have holidays, all this stuff.   
I just want to try to enjoy little bit this week also.  Last week in China.  I have maybe one more tournament after maybe in Moscow, and that's it for me.   
No matter how difficult it is, I just want to do the best here.  I lost in quarters I think last year.  I never stay till the end of the tournament, maybe this time is going to be a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT