U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2018
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. PLISKOVA/S. Kenin   
6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It seemed like Sofia was playing well today, up a breaks in both sets.  How were you able to turn it around both times?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: It was two breaks in each set.  I didn't really feel like it's two breaks because I was feeling like I'm serving pretty well today.  Although I lost two of my service games, I was always up in those games.  I just did some bad mistakes.   
She was really going for her shots, playing really well.  I was too passive.  That's why it was a little bit looked like this.  I could play for sure more aggressive.  But, no, doesn't matter now.  I'm just happy that I won and I'm not still on the court.   
 Q.  Do you feel she improved a lot in two years?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I remember she was playing pretty good also two years ago.  But she's still young.  She has nothing to lose.  Totally different story than my situation.   
I was expecting she's going to play well because I saw her few times already.  She was playing some good matches against top players already.  I expected tough match, but maybe not as tough as it was.  Yeah, for sure she improved.   
 Q.  What did you make of the court conditions, maybe slower on Armstrong?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, it was a little bit different in the beginning, but we played two hours, so I got pretty much used to it.  The court is a little bit different, but it's a very nice court.  I enjoyed to play there.   
For me, actually after it was not that slow because I think she played pretty fast.  Maybe compared to the other courts, it's going to be so.  The conditions are tough to stay because it changed so much from the day to the night.  Hard for me to say.   
 Q.  Ash Barty next.  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: We played last year in Asia, very close match.  I don't remember.  I lost for sure.  But, yeah, she's tough opponent because she has so many options what to play, using a lot of slice, coming to the net very often.  She can serve pretty well.  There's a lot of things which she can do, she can change.   
Going to be tough, completely different than today.  I still have to play my game.  My serve improved from my first match.  Hopefully it can stay.  If I serve well, I think there's always a chance to beat those girls.   
 Q.  Could you tell anything was going particularly well with your serve to hit 11 aces, the rhythm?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Yeah, it was not that windy as the last match what I played.  I feel like my serve is a little bit better with each match.  She was still putting some pressure on my serve, but I felt like I have my serve under control.  I find the timing a little bit better today.   
Yeah, I'm just happy that it's working because it's the best part of my game, so it has to be working if I want to win.   
 Q.  How confident are you feeling right now?  
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Super confident.  I beat players which I should have beat, so it's nothing amazing.  It's very nice to be always in the second week of a Grand Slam.  Doesn't matter who you beat or doesn't matter who you play, you still have to beat those girls.  They are young, have nothing to lose.  Sometimes it's even more tough than to play against some old ones or seeded players.  I'm just happy that I'm there, and we will see what is next.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT