THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 4, 2018
Karolina Pliskova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. PLISKOVA/V. Azarenka
6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. On a scale of 1 to 10, how would you describe your game today?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: Well, it's tough.  I still think it was not completely perfect, but it was close to, let's say, 7 or 8 (smiling).
Q. Why do you say 7 or 8?  Why not 9?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I still think I can serve much better than I served.  It was enough today.  Sometimes when you don't have to, when she doesn't push you that much, you just don't serve that well.  I still think I can have better percentage, maybe more aces.  I know I can feel a little bit better.
It was so far one of my best matches on grass, for sure.  I mean, she's always tough, so it's never easy.
Q. Were you frustrated at any time?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: In the match?
Q. Yes.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, not really.  Even though I had couple of breakpoints early in the first set, I was not able to make it.  Second also some chances, first game, second game.  She just played little bit better than me, served well.  That's how it is on grass.  You don't have to get any more chances in the games and you have breakpoints.
Overall I feel like it was pretty solid for me.
Q. I want to ask about your emotional demeanor on the court.  Playing someone today who had a very tough match the last time you played.  You stayed so tranquil.  Is that always how you behaved, calm?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No.  I try always.  Not always is like this.  Look, she's good player.  Sometimes is just better to play those players.  You know you have to play the best tennis to beat them.  Then to play some wild cards, you're not going to play the best tennis in the first round, for sure.  Maybe somebody, but not me.
I know that my level always against a good player is going to be better.  That's what happened today.  I also think she played pretty solid compared to last match what we played on clay.  It was not that good level in Madrid.
But we played so many times already.  Always close matches.  Always three-setters.  I know she's big fighter.  I was ready for tough match.  That's why it went this way.
Q. First time you've reached the third round, I believe.  Why has it taken so long?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't know.  But I'm happy that it happened.  For me, doesn't matter the past.  Only the time there now.
Q. I think when you came off the court for your television interview, it was the first thing you said, Finally I'm in the third round.  Was it something that was playing on your mind, particularly you were really motivated to improve on?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I think it's every year similar.  This year I tried to not put that much pressure because last year I think I put too much, and I was second seeded here.  Everybody thought maybe I'm going to win.  The pressure was a little bit bigger.
But this time, it's also, like, I was playing against good player, so the pressure was little bit also on her side today.  I was playing more freely today.  That's why I played better than in the first round.
I didn't change many things, but I just believed.  Look, I always believed that I can get far here.  I don't know if third round, fourth round, but there is always a chance for me.
Q. A lot of people think you have the game that you could do very well here.  Obviously a big serve.  Do you feel that?  Are there bits of playing on grass you find more difficult?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: There are some tough things in the game on grass for me.  But so far I think the game was okay for last, let's say, two weeks, if I don't count Birmingham.  I feel okay.  I feel my shots are working here.  My serve is quite effective, as well.  I'm able to mix the speed with the serve to hit some slices, as well.  It's just important that I can hit little bit different shots than I was able to do before.
I feel like my game, if I play well, doesn't matter which surface I play.  It's just about, like, me, how I play, how I feel.  There is a chance to beat everybody.  Doesn't matter which surface.
Q. How do you feel about the women dominating the show courts today?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I don't know.  It depends on the tournament.  It's their schedule.  Doesn't matter which court they put me.
I think it's good because women's tennis, for me, it's more attractive because there is more up and downs than in the men's.  I like to watch.  Maybe the people also.  So I don't know.  There is Serena.  This match I think was worth to put on Centre Court, me with Azarenka.  Then there is Serena.  Obviously Federer, he has to be on Centre Court (smiling).
Q. How did it compare playing on it today than last year?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: I was really looking forward to play there today because I had the experience from last year.  I lost the match against Rybarikova in second round.  I always enjoyed to play on this big court.
Like I said, the level Indian Wells always better on these courts than when you play on some small court.  I always feel like I'm playing better tennis on center courts or bigger courts.  I was enjoying.  Hopefully I can get back there.
Q. What do you think you've improved most about your game in the last six months?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: It's tough to say.  We are practicing lot of things.  If I improved or not?  Obviously the results are not really the way how I want to have it.  Although I think I'm working pretty well, especially still my movement.
I change again my fitness coach.  There is couple new things which I was doing.  Maybe it's going to show up little bit later because it's still not enough time to show the good things.
So far I feel great physically, yeah.  Still waiting for good results, but overall I think everything is working pretty well.
Q. I suppose Vika is in the earlier stages of coming back, playing more regularly on tour.  You've played her a couple of times now.  What did you notice about her level than when you played in Miami a couple months ago?  Was it about your level improving or is she struggling to come on?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: For sure I think this was for me the best match what I played against her.  Not in the past.  I played some better ones Indian Wells, even though I lost the match.
I feel like on hard courts she's definitely the strongest.  For sure not on clay, and maybe not on grass.  Although I still felt this was quite good match.  I was expecting she's going to play little bit worse because we played in Madrid, and I think the level there was just not great from both of us.
But anyway, on hard court I feel she's the best.  She was playing pretty well in Miami, although I was not 100% there.  It was kind of tough match there.
Anyway, I think she feels the best on hard court.  I don't know what she's going to say.  She's always fighting.  Even though she's never easy to beat because she's still playing, doesn't matter how she's playing, even she's playing bad level, that day she's still fighting.  She's, for sure, good player.
Q. Is there anyone in the draw that really scares you?
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: From players?
Q. Any player.
KAROLINA PLISKOVA: No, there is nobody.  No, there is nobody like this.  I told you already, it's more about me with other players than about them.  If I play well, I don't have to be scared about anybody.
Of course, there are good players.  But it's not that I'm scared.  It's just that I go on the court, is going to be tough, maybe I'm not going to win, even though if I play good level.  For sure, it's not that I'm scared.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT