CROSSROADS CLASSIC: BUTLER VS INDIANA
December 19, 2020
Myles Tate
Jair Bolden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Indiana 68, Butler 60
Q. Jair, after you guys built that lead, had a heck of a time scoring against Indiana's defense in the second half.  Did they make some adjustments that made it difficult for the bulldogs to score?
JAIR BOLDEN:   They made some adjustments, but at the end of the day we've got to make shots.  But we can't let our ability to make shots or their defensive adjustments to affect our defense, which is where we lost the game at.
Q. The freshmen obviously performed very well on a big stage.  How would you evaluate what they did, especially in lieu of going into this game without point guard Aaron Thompson?
JAIR BOLDEN:   Yeah, they played very -- they're getting better every day.  They work hard in practice, they work hard off the court, and they're on time and it's showing when they get on the court.  They're going to be huge for us moving forward.
Q. Myles, what did Indiana do defensively that really clamped down on the bulldogs in the second half?
MYLES TATE:   I feel like we did a lot in the first half that we should have got back to in the second, but really anything that they throw at us we should have a counter for, because we practice that kind of stuff in practice.
I feel like it was on us for not executing as well, but we've got to get stops on defense, as well.
Q. This usually has a great big-time atmosphere with a full house and everything.  What was the environment like to play in there with essentially no spectators?
MYLES TATE:   It's a change for me, but I really don't know how a real college atmosphere is, so I really don't know the difference between which.  But it's just playing basketball, trying to execute with your team.  Really the noise is just another factor.
Q. You had such a long layoff.  The freshmen especially played with a lot of confidence, especially in the first half.  Are you feeling comfortable in college basketball already?
MYLES TATE:   I know some stuff I need to learn in college, but I feel like one thing I can't let slip is my confidence.  As long as my coach and my teammates have faith in me, then I've got confidence in myself.
Q. It looked like AT was almost another coach on the sidelines for you guys.  What kinds of things was he telling you during stops in play?
MYLES TATE:   Yeah, he was telling me a lot.  He told me to lead my team.  He's a great leader himself.  Without him on the court, we're missing that leader, but he told me to lead my team and just do the same thing that I always do when I play ball, just lead my team, make the right plays and make the game simple.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT