FED CUP INTERVIEWS- USA vs. BELGIUM
July 16, 2006
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Kim Clijsters, congratulations.  You put Belgium into the Fed Cup final.  How do you feel?    
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  I feel great.  I mean, I was very happy that I could start the day off today.  I was in a little bit of a weird situation with Craybas canceling playing.  It was a little bit of -- I had to get used to that, change my mind about that, because I only knew it about 20 minutes before I played.  I was feeling good out there.  I played a lot better than I did yesterday.    
 I mean, it's great to play in an arena like this where the atmosphere was great from the first point on.  This is great.  I mean, this is what you play tennis for.  This is one of the best memories I have out of my whole career, is being able to play Fed Cup.    
  
  Q.  I'm sure you'd like to take this crowd on the road with you.    
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, I'd play for their flats (laughter).  Yeah, that's what I mean, this is a few times a year that you're able to witness something like this.  That's why it just stays with me for the rest of my life, I think.  For any tennis player, it's the most beautiful thing that you can be in this situation, being able to play that final match or being able to win the last point for your country, to take them into the finals.  The next tie is going to be at home as well, so that will even be better.    
 I can't wait.  I can't wait to start.    
  
  Q.  How is the back shaping up?  How did it feel during the match?    
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  It felt a lot better today.  I took some painkillers, some antiinflammatories today.  That helps.  I don't want to live on antiinflammatories.  It's once in a while when I feel like it's necessary, I'll take them.  It really helped today.    
  
  Q.  2001 Belgium won the Fed Cup.  You have Italy in the final, at home as you were saying.  What are your thoughts?    
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  We look forward to that.  I know a lot of the girls from the Italian team, Pennetta, Schiavone, they're all fun girls to be with.  So I think it's going to be a fun tie, as well.  The people in Belgium have been able to see Schiavone play in Antwerp where she did well a few times, she made the finals, and in Hasselt.  So they know her.  She's a good entertainer out on the court and a good fighter.  So I think it will be a very interesting tie.    
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT