FED CUP INTERVIEWS- USA vs. BELGIUM
July 14, 2006
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Kim, the semifinals of the Fed Cup, how excited are you to be playing in your own country?    
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  I'm very excited.  You know, we've had so many great like team atmospheres in Fed Cup.  After winning a few years ago in Madrid, you just create this special feeling I think for playing Fed Cup.  It hardly ever happens that we get to play in arenas like this where it's completely sold out, if you have the crowd behind you.    
 For a way, just like for my family and friends and fans, it's great for us to play in Belgium.  That's why I keep playing Fed Cup.  I love it.  I love playing in a team atmosphere as well.    
  
  Q.  It's a nice new arena as well.    
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  It is.  It's beautiful.  My boyfriend, actually he played basketball here against a team, and they were basketball champions.  But it's beautiful.  I mean, it's brand-new.  I think it's a perfect -- the perfect place to play the semifinal.    
  
  Q.  What about yourself, coming up as the second of the two singles matches on the first day, how do you feel about that?    
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  I mean, I never really have a favorite time to start.  I mean, you know, if you can start at 4:00, you can schedule your time or your day a little bit better.  But, I mean, you get used to that.  After playing for so many years and playing in Fed Cups, you get used to, you know, having schedules that you don't always know how they're going to end up.    
 But I look forward to it.  I think Kirsten, she's ready to start at 4, and hopefully she gets the crowd already to go for when I get out there.    
  
  Q.  Finally, you're playing Jamea Jackson in singles on the first day.  What are your thoughts about that match?    
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  I've never played against her.  I've seen her play a little bit in these last few weeks where she did really well in Birmingham, winning that tournament.  She actually played against Kirsten at Wimbledon, so I watched a little bit of that match.  She's a good player.  She's a very good athlete.  She looks really motivated out there on the court.  It's a match that I really look forward to.  Also, my match on Sunday.  I look forward to hopefully playing against Jill.  I lost to her last time I played her.  You know, you always want to have that revenge.  I look forward to both matches.    
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT