WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2006
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Pleased with that performance, Kim? 
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah.  She's a different type of player I think than you usually get to play.  She's not the type of player who is going to really dictate the points.  She hits very low shots.  She moves well.  She moves really well.  I think the better of a shot you hit, the tougher the ball comes back.  I think she's one of those types of players. 
 She missed some easy shots, you know, where I just brought the ball back.  If I hit some good shots, she came up with some good shots as well.  Just a little bit different, you know, out there.  Just tougher to get a rhythm, I think. 
 Yeah, overall, I'm happy with the way I did. 

 Q.  Which matches do you prefer, more difficult or easy one like this one? 
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  I mean, every match is fun.  It all depends.  I mean, as long as you win them, they're always fun.  Doesn't matter if you win them easy or tough. 
 I mean, sometimes the tougher ones, if you win the tough ones, they're fun to win, too, because you really have to battle.  But, no, every win is fun.  No difference. 

 Q.  Did you prepare yourself especially for this match or just you treat it as normal match? 
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, no, I prepare myself the same for every match.  Doesn't matter who I play.  If I play the final of a Grand Slam or a first round in a Tier III tournament, I prepare myself the same for every tournament.  Yeah, I always do the same everything. 
 I think it's really important to have the same routine before you play. 

 Q.  Are you feeling confident going into the quarterfinals?  Are you where you want to be at the moment in terms of form? 
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah.  You know, like I said, I'm in the quarterfinals.  Before the tournament started, if I was still going to be in the tournament now, of course, I'd prefer to be here than to be sitting at home now. 
 Like I said, I mean, I had a bye -- a walkover in my second round, so the first week, didn't play that much.  But now, you know, yeah, I feel good.  Just the serve was a little bit off today.  That's something I'll definitely have to, you know, keep focusing on, just making sure that I get enough of a first-serve percentage. 

 Q.  You were very happy today because of the next step in the tournament.  Today you played very precise tennis and very fast.  Are you happy with your performance? 
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, like I said before, she's a different type of player.  I knew that I had to, you know, step it up a couple of times because she's a type of girl that if you let her, you know, play like she wants to play, you just hit her in her racquet, she can produce a lot of really good points.  But you have to make sure you try to go for a little bit more because that's what you need to do against her to get through her because she's such a good mover.  I still think her serve was a little bit of a weakness.  I felt like I could step it up there and dominate the points a lot from the return and onwards. 

 Q.  Last year three of the four finalists were Americans.  This year we have no Americans left.  Does that surprise you?  Do you have any thoughts on that?  We've usually been pretty strong here. 
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah.  But, you know, I think these days -- of course, I know in the last few years, the last so many years, America has been really dominant in both men and women's tennis.  You don't really look at that.  Us as players, we don't really look at all the Americans. 
 But, of course, I was very surprised to see Venus lose.  I think she's always -- I think seeing her play here last year, she always steps it up when she's down.  That's something, again, against Lisa Raymond, too, she did that.  That's why I thought she was going to do it against Jankovic as well. 
 Yeah, I'm definitely surprised that there's no Americans left.  But you were missing a few as well before the tournament started, so... 

 Q.  This is Radwanska's first Grand Slam event.  What sort of future do you think she has? 
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  Really good player.  Like I said before, she's so young still.  She already has a really good game.  She's not the type of player who makes a lot of unforced errors.  I think she moves well.  I think her serve is still something that can get a lot better.  That will give her a lot of free points I think once she starts playing against the higher-ranked players. 
 But I definitely think she's going to be a real good player. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT