INTERNAZIONALI D'ITALIA
May 18, 2006
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Even if you say that of course clay is not your best surface, today don't you think it was more a question of concentration than a question of surface?   
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  I just felt like at the start, you know, I was going for my shots and missing them.  I just totally lost my confidence out there.  You know, kept going for it, but just couldn't, you know, couldn't do what I had to do out there.  It was frustrating.   
 You know, like I was trying to play aggressive tennis, you know.  I was trying to play the game that I played against her when I played, you know, against her the previous times.  But I was just, you know, missing balls - not by far, but, you know, important points I was missing.   
 So, yeah, it was -- I just had, you know, no confidence.  I think it was just an off day today.   
  Q.  When you came back from 3-1 to 3-All and then you had a set point...   
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, that's the thing.  Even when you're not playing good, you try to hang in there.  You try to somehow win your points.  And, you know, like it's not that I gave up.  Like at the end, even when I was down, like it's not like I say, you know, "Screw this."  But I tried to come back.   
 It was, yeah, I just never really had the right game out there, I think, to play well and to get through, through her game, and, you know, to win that second set.   
 Yeah, I think that's the main key.  I just wasn't fresh, wasn't confident enough out there today.   
  Q.  So what can you do to get your confidence back now before the French?   
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  Train, I guess.  Train.  You know, what can you do?  I mean, there's no real -- there's no rule or no lesson that anybody can tell you, "This is what you have to do to get your confidence back."  That comes by itself.   
 So it's just a matter of, you know, going home and train and, you know, not think about it too much because if you're going to think about, you know, trying to work on your confidence, then I think you're going to make it a bigger problem than it is.  You just have to keep working hard and try not to focus on it too much and just keep working on the things that you want to improve.  Then, you know, I think automatically it will come.   
 But, yeah, so we'll see what will happen.   
  Q.  How disappointing is it after winning a tournament like Warsaw?    
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, no, but that's what I mean.  I mean, I had a really good -- I played well there, I had a good week there, and then, you know, come here and even yesterday my match wasn't, you know, wasn't good tennis.  And today, the same.   
 I think I was, you know -- it doesn't mean anything.  It doesn't mean, you know, because I played well in Warsaw, that like even there, the people started talking about, "favorite for the French Open."  But I'm like, it doesn't mean anything.  That's what I've shown here this week, is it can change very fast the other way around, especially I think for me on a surface like this, I think.  On a hard court, you know, I'm a lot more consistent, I think, and that's why it's just, like you said, something that I'll have to work on, is try to get my game back and to be aggressive and to be able to play my game and find that game on clay.   
  Q.  So the fact that you won't be seeded one in Paris, you don't mind?   
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  No (smiling).  Not at all.  It's nice for the French, you know, to have Amelie...   
  Q.  In Paris this year they will play on the first Sunday, you will start to play a few matches.   
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah.   
  Q.  Do you agree with the organization?  Would you like to play on Sunday?  Will it bother you?   
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  No, I mean, because we travel so much, I think a lot of the players, we don't even know what day we play anyway.  That doesn't matter.  I mean, you know, that's a part of, I think, business as well a little bit I think.   
 On the other hand, if I look at the ITF side and, you know, the French Open organization, I think it's something that they can get more money, they can sell more tickets on a Sunday.  On a Sunday, you know, it's a day off, people don't have to work.   
 But on the other hand, the tradition changes a little bit, I guess, and that's always a little bit -- for a lot of people, it's something that a lot of people are not open for it.  But, to me, it's not a big deal at all.   
  Q.  So the French Federation gets more money.  You will have more equal prize money for men and women?   
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, that would be nice.  Yeah, we always give in.  You know, "Have an extra day," but... (smiling).   
 That's it.  That's where it stays.  You just give them (laughing).   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT