AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2006
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Seemed to hold up pretty well for that one. 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, I was very pleased.  It's the first day where I felt like, you know, I'm still not moving like I normally can, but a lot better.  You know, I guess the tablets are doing its work.  
 
Q.  What are your thoughts on the match?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I'm happy with the way I played.  I'm just feeling like my arm is just going so smoothly, like it just -- yeah, my forehand, my arm just feels like it feels so light and it's so easy to move, to move my arm around.  So, yeah, I guess that's good because I have to, because it has to do a little bit more work now.  Usually I use more my legs and my body a little bit more.  Yeah, no, I'm very happy with the way I was, you know, seeing the ball and hitting the ball when I was standing in the right position.  
 
Q.  Have we seen of the end of the Williams sisters dominating Grand Slams?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, you tell me.  You know, they're still great players.  I mean, you know, Venus won Wimbledon last year, Serena won the Australian Open last year.  It's not that long ago.  You know, they're still great players.  They can still win every tournament that they play.  They still have the power and the ability I think.  You know, I think when they're at their best and they're at their fittest, they're the best athletes out there.  Yeah, I still think they -- they're great for the sport.  Yeah, definitely.  
 
Q.  What do you think about possibly meeting Hingis in the quarters?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I don't think about that yet.  You know, I have a very, very tough match coming up.  You know, Schiavone is playing really well.  That's my next goal, is to, you know, be as ready as I can before that match.  So I'm not thinking about Hingis at all.  
 
Q.  Are you still very much day to day with your injury?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah.  I mean, you know, I just have to do a lot of treatment and everything.  You know, that's what I'm doing.  I'm not going to hit tomorrow again.  Just keep my routine going, I guess, so that I'm fresh when I have to be out there.  I'm not going to go out, you know, practicing for an hour, waste my energy, yeah, just aggravating things a little bit more, muscles that are maybe compensating a little bit more.  That's why I was wearing my tape today, as well, because I felt in my previous match, you know, with the serve, I was just compensating my back a little bit.  It started to hurt my left leg, my left hamstring.  You know, that's why it's tape today.  I just want to make sure that I don't put any like pressure on any of my muscles, you know, when I can rest.  
 
Q.  You're playing for another two years.  Has it crossed your mind that you hope your body keeps going for that two years?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Oh, yes.  Definitely, definitely.  Could be sooner, you know.  If it keeps going like this, I might hang 'em up sooner, yeah (smiling).  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT