US OPEN
September 2, 2005
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You were going to play Ana Ivanovic in Toronto, but she pulled out with an injury.  Do you know anything about her game?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I know her sort of from around, from the locker room and everything.  I was supposed to play her in Toronto a couple weeks ago, and she pulled out there, as well, with her shoulder injury.  But I practiced with her here.  You know, I watched her play at Wimbledon and I watched her play obviously at the French Open where she beat Amélie.  She's a great player.  I mean, she's a strong girl, as well.  She hits the ball very hard and very clean.  I think she's got a good future ahead of her - with her injuries, if she can stay healthy.  She's had a few times already.  I think also in her singles here, I saw her getting ready before her match.  Her shoulder was sore then as well.  Yeah, I mean, she's a very nice girl, very easy, very focused, but a good tennis player.  
 
Q.  You have experience of making the transition from a Top 20 player to the best player in the world.  What advice could you give to somebody in that position?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Just keep working hard.  Doesn't matter how good the results are.  Sometimes when you're young, you have girls or even guys who, you know, maybe they start thinking about other things a little bit too much.  You just have to make sure that you stay focused on what you have to do.  You always want to try to just keep improving.  You know, it's always -- the second year is always the toughest, I think, trying to defend your points and trying to stay at the top.  That's always the toughest.  So you have to put even more work into it then, so you always have to try to just keep working very hard.  
 
Q.  How do you feel about the state of your game right now?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I'm happy with how I'm playing.  I'm definitely not complaining.  You know, I've been hitting the ball well here - today as well.  I was hitting the ball pretty well.  So I was pretty happy with today's win.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT