ROGERS CUP
August 19, 2005
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Kim.  
 
 
Q.  Pretty impressive, 3-1 down against Razzano in the first set, then 6-3, 6-Love.  How do you feel?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I came into this tournament obviously with a jetlag, with everything I was a little bit tired.  But every match I feel like I'm, you know, better than my first match already today.  You know, I still think I need -- there's still a lot of improvement I think to work on.  But I feel like I'm very happy to be in the semis and hopefully play a good match against Anastasia.  
 
Q.  You say there's still a lot of improvement.  What specifically? 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Just recover from the last few weeks as well.  I think I'm just, you know, I'm happy to be here and to be playing those matches.  These are great matches for me to play - although I got a walkover yesterday, which I wasn't too sad about (smiling).  Yeah, you know, again, the match like tomorrow is going to be a great match for me.  This is perfect to have these kind of matches in such a big tournament, yeah.  
 
Q.  Anastasia obviously has a bit of trouble going on with her ankle.  How do you handle that going into that match?  Is that something you exploit?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No, you don't.  You don't try to think about it.  You just try to play the ball and don't really worry about, you know, how she's feeling too much.  I mean, she seemed to be -- I saw the first set today, and she was hitting the ball really well.  She was hitting the ball clean.  Some of the best tennis I've seen her play maybe the last, you know, maybe this year.  I mean, you know, she looks happy.  She's a good friend of mine.  It's going to be fun out there tomorrow.  
 
Q.  She said that in her match her opponent really didn't exploit the injury, didn't try many dropshots.  She said she wouldn't have been able to get to a lot of them.  Is that something conscious in your mind?  You have to know she is hurting a little bit. 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, but, you know -- I don't know.  It's a tough situation, I guess.  But, you know, I'll see.  I'm not going to finish every rally in a dropshot tomorrow.  That would be stupid.  No, I'm going to see.  I'll see out there, you know, how she's feeling.  I mean, she recovered.  She was moving well from side to side today as well.  We'll see.  I don't know, we'll see out there tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Is it enough of a workout for you since you didn't get to play yesterday, you haven't had much competition today? 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I've played enough matches the last few weeks.  So, yeah (smiling).  
 
Q.  Will you actually work out more today? 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I just had a 15-minute run and that's it.  You know, nothing too much.  I'll do my exercises that I have to do every day.  I'll do that tonight.  For the rest, I'll have a massage and go to dinner, just relax.  
 
Q.  We saw you in March having a fantastic tournament in Indian Wells and then in Miami.  Do you think now you play much better than even in March or not? 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No, I don't think so.  I think it's similar.  I mean, I think my best game, you know, since 2003 has been, you know, the same.  I've improved my serve, I think, and I've worked on a lot of things.  I think I've become more consistent, yes.  You know, I think I've become more consistent.  The French Open, you know, I felt like when I lost to Lindsay there and after being up 6-1, whatever it was, a set and 3-1, you know, something snapped in my head.  I said, "I want to work hard again.  I want to get back, I want to get fit."  I started training hard in Eastbourne.  It pays off.  The hard work pays off.  I think I've become a little bit more consistent and patient I think as well on the court.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT