PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 13, 2005
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Kim.  
 
 
Q.  Nice weather out there, huh? 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  When Marat and Jarkko were playing, once we went outside, I was watching upstairs a little bit, I could just see them like battling on one side.  Yeah, it was tough, especially on the left side there.  Yeah, it was sort of against the wind.  Yeah, just battling through it, you know, trying to hit as hard as you can to get the ball deep.  Yeah, but, you know, it's good to have these kind of matches sometimes.  You know, they don't always have to be 1-1.  Especially in my situation now, I definitely don't expect that.  I'm very happy to get through this, especially in the second set with a tiebreaker. 
 
Q.  Was the weather tougher or the wait? 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No, that's okay.  I think by now by being on the tour for about five years, you're used to the waiting.  But the weather, I mean, this is definitely a place where the weather, and especially the sand storms and the winds can blow up.  Yeah, but, you know, it was -- you know, it's been a while.  I've been practicing indoors for about six months, without sun or wind.  But it was I think a challenge to get through this today.  
 
Q.  It was windy, but was it cold out there, too?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Not for me.  I saw my mom in the box.  She had like five towels around her.  It was a bit colder for her.  For me, it's fine.  I mean, once you're moving, it's fine.  
 
Q.  How was it moving and running when the sand is getting higher?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  It's easier for me to slide.  It's a little bit more slippery.  Yeah, so -- but you don't really -- you just sometimes see when the ball bounces, you see a little bit of dust fly up.  
 
Q.  You don't slip too much?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No, no.  
 
Q.  That point that you just kept running, ended up almost in the stands, did you think --
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  That was a bit silly, actually.  But I think that's just me.  You know, even in practice, I do those kind of things.  I just want to go for it and see if I can get it.  Sort of like battle myself, I guess.  Yeah, but, no, luckily I stopped at the right time and didn't hit anything or didn't, you know, cut anything.  Wish I had it, though. 
 
Q.  Did you watch any of Mauresmo's match?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I did.  I was watching a little bit in the locker room after my practice, just the second set -- the third set I was watching. 
 
Q.  You've been off the tour a year and every time you turn around there's another Russian girl?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  It's unbelievable.  It's unbelievable.  Like I say, when I came -- even in Antwerp, because the draw was smaller, and I knew pretty much all of the girls.  Yeah, here, there's so many girls that I don't even know.  You know, I speak to my sister at home, and she knows them all from Juniors.  You know, it's funny to see how I'm definitely not the youngest one out there any more.  Yeah but, you know, I think with all the examples that they've had over the last year, I think it's just -- you know, it's been very motivating I think for all the other girls that are still practicing in Russia and seeing them practicing there, as well, and maybe practicing with them, as well.  So I think you learn a lot from that.  I remember when I was younger, I was always lucky to be able to hit with Sabine Appelmans when she was at home.  And those kind of things helped because you learn just not things on court, but also off court, seeing how they prepare.  For young girls, I think those things are very important. 
 
Q.  Happy to get three matches in a row?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  And without pain.  For me, that's my first thing, my first goal, like that I'm the most satisfied about, is that my wrist is holding up, yeah.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT