AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2004
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, I felt really good out there today.  I felt very sharp and, you know, I felt like I was -- you know, like I said on the court, really doing with the ball whatever I wanted to do with it.  You know, it doesn't happen every day that you can have matches like this.  Especially with my foot and everything, you know, I think it's great to have short matches and recover.  And I have enough time to recover for my next match. 
 
Q.  Given the interrupted preparation, match conditioning and general fitness, is it on track now for the tournament?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, maybe -- I mean, definitely today I felt better again than my first match.  You know, as long as I keep improving, I think that's a good sign.  But, you know, I still wouldn't say -- although today I played really good, I still wouldn't say that it's perfect.  There's still a lot of things that I can work on and that I would like to see better throughout the tournament.  
 
Q.  Any cause to consider your ankle at all during the game today?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No, no.  That's probably, you know, the key thing.  Once I passed that first match, that was sort of a little bit of a relief, I think also in my mind.  And mentally, you know, it's a relief just not having to worry about it as much, knowing that I'm capable of, you know, doing the running that I would like to.  
 
Q.  Can you still do the splits or not? 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, I can.  It's got nothing to do with the left ankle.  
 
Q.  Doesn't worry you at all?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No, no.  Everything I do with the splits is on my right foot.  So there's nothing wrong with the right one.  
 
Q.  Where did this form come from today, do you think?  It can happen any day in the year?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Nothing to do with the foot or not practicing or anything?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No, it doesn't.  I think, you know, I was really seeing the ball very well.  Even when we were warming up, I had a really good feeling.  You know, the rhythm, as well.  Like I played really good today.  But I think we had a lot of good rallies.  You know, she was playing aggressively.  You know, a few times she tried to mix it up.  You know, I was very, you know, coming in and not giving her a chance I think to try to mix it up too much.  So I was, you know, very happy with, you know, the way I played.  
 
Q.  Would you have imagined four or five days ago feeling this good?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No, no, not at all.  Not at all.  It's definitely -- it's, you know, like I said, it's a little bit of a relief, after winning that first match.  And I think that's also why I felt, you know, a little bit more relaxed I think out there as well today.  The first match is always -- you know, I was definitely a little bit scared going out there in that first match because you don't know, you know, how it's going -- what's going to happen, if I want to, you know, give myself a chance of running to shots and, you know, sometimes that I maybe don't have to.  No, so it was -- after that match -- you know, yesterday it felt a little bit stiff and just irritated from the tape, as well.  So not really a problem, but the whole foot in general was feeling very tight.  But, yeah, no, but it felt good today.  And it still feels a little bit stiff.  But I think I'm getting used to playing with the tape, as well, which, you know, is definitely not something that is fun to play with.  
 
Q.  You have to pop it in ice as soon as you're finished?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  I'm getting used to that, as well.  In the beginning, it was very cold, but it's okay now. 
 
Q.  Have you seen Venus play at all since she's been back?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No.  You know, not really.  I watched a little bit I think when she played Ashley, because I was in the room then just preparing for my night match that day.  And I watched a little bit, but not that much. 
 
Q.  Hard to judge where she is?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah.  I mean, she's obviously playing well.  I mean, she looked -- you know, I mean, she must have been working hard.  She looks very fit and she looks very strong.  You know, I saw her serving really well.  That's, you know, probably the thing -- I think her second serve was, you know, maybe not as good the first day.  But I mean, she's, yeah, she's still Venus.  You know, she still is so quick and she still probably is the best mover out there.  
 
Q.  Do you take any supplements or drinks when you play tennis? 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah.  Like, you know, I take Gatorade powder.  
 
Q.  Are you very conscious about what you take?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yup, yup, definitely.  
 
Q.  Your husband-to-be is a crazy football supporter.  Do you plan to follow any AFL?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I do.  I do, actually.  You know, I know all the rules now.  I've been -- no, we've made a lot of friends, you know, from the Adelaide Crows.  Andrew McLeod and Tyson Edwards, those guys.  I definitely, you know, whenever I'm over here, there's not that many -- they're always practicing.  You know, it's their off-season.  But I can't wait to come here and watch a few of their games.  You know, it's really the kind of sport that I, you know, really enjoy watching.  It's always busy and it's always, you know, a lot of stuff going on.  You know, I mean, I do like soccer, as well.  But you can have nil-nil matches and not really have seen that much.  I think in the AFL football, there's always something going on.  You know, so I really enjoy that, yeah. 
 
Q.  Has Lleyton told you you have to barrack for the Adelaide Crows?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No.  Because I know so many guys now, that's why I go for them. 
 
Q.  Would you be allowed to barrack for anybody else?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Sure.  I've got my own leanings, too (laughter). 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT