WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2003
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English for Kim Clijsters, please. 


Q.  It was good to have Lleyton there today to support you.  How has he been in the last couple days? 

KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, he's been fine, you know.  He's been playing football and everything and golf and stuff.  Of course it's nice to have him there for the support.  It's always nice to see him sitting in the box, yeah.

Q.  There's been all sorts of reaction back in Australia since he's lost.  People coming up with all sorts of theories including perhaps he should take some time out of the game.  Some others also saying perhaps his parents should take a step back and not travel with him all the way, give him some freedom.  Do you think his parents  -- does he need his parents with him? 

KIM CLIJSTERS:  I don't think it's, you know, I think that's questions that you have to ask him.  I don't think that's anything for me to answer.  I think if you want to ask him his private questions about his private life, I think  -- I'm sure  -- I don't even think it's any of your business either.  But, you know, that's  -- you'll have to ask him those questions I think, yeah. 

Q.  Are you happy with your progress so far in the tournament?

KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, for sure.  It was a long day today.  I think in that second set I lost  -- I wasn't feeling as fresh as I was at the start.  But like I said, you know, it was a very long day and a bit of a weird situation as well with changing courts and stuff.  You know, one stage I was gonna stay on Court 2 and then at the end they were gonna move me again.  So it was a bit, you know, confusing a little bit.  But at the end, you know, everything turned out fine.  I'm happy with the way I played, you know.  I definitely  -- I think my serve here and there wasn't always 100 percent, but, you know, at the times where I needed it to be, it was going well, so...

Q.  And were you happy with the move from Court 2 to Centre Court? 

KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, sure.  It's always, I think, in any Grand Slam if you can play on the biggest court, on Centre Court, it's always nice to have that.  Also I think I played there my first match and I was playing really well, so I was definitely  -- it was nice to play there again, yeah. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT