TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 14, 2003
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Do you prefer Real Madrid or Juventus? 

KIM CLIJSTERS:  Juventus.

Q.  Which player in particular?

KIM CLIJSTERS:  No, not really one particular.  I like the team, yeah. 

Q.  Easy match?

KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, it was.  I didn't expect it to be, to be this easy, especially because I was feeling a little bit tired after my matches in Berlin.  I think I played eight matches in four days there.  So that was a tough schedule.  But it was good that I got a late start and that I could play tonight as well.  It was not as warm, so I could get my rhythm, you know.  And, yeah, I was really pleased with my level as well.  I did well last year, so that makes me also come back and want to come back and play good.  So, yeah, that definitely helps as well.  If you have a tournament where you go back to and you've had a good result there the year before, it makes you even more motivated to do the same. 

Q.  After Miami did you have a break?

KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yes, I had a break.  I just was feeling  -- because I played so many matches, you know, in the beginning, from January until Miami.  I had a few weeks off, like one week here and there.  I always played singles and doubles, and in every tournament I went at least - in the singles and doubles - at least to the semifinals.  So I was really like dehydrated and exhausted at the end of Miami.  I was sick.  So I just went home and did nothing.  I just had a few weeks off, and then I started training again on the clay court for Fed Cup.  We played Fed Cup.  It was really nice.  It was, you know  -- I had a lot of fun at home.  It's nice.  Because sometimes I can spend two days, three days at home and then I have to leave.  Now, I was actually there for two weeks and it was, yeah, it was really nice.

Q.  What do you think about Rome, about the city and about this tournament? 

KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, you know, I always play good at the tournaments where I feel good and where I like to go to, so Rome is definitely one of my favorite cities  - although, I think the driving and everything can be a little bit crazy sometimes.  I'm putting my seatbelt on straightaway (laughing).  That's the first thing I do when I hop in the car.  But, yeah, no, it's good.  I really like it.  Yesterday I went to  -- you know, my mom is here and a friend of my mom as well, so we went to shop a little bit near the Spanish Steps.  We had dinner there.  So it's really nice.  I think, you know, because there's so much other things to do out of the tennis that I think for me, it's good to have something else to focus on a little bit as well so you don't always have to think about the tennis all the time. 

Q.  Did you buy something?

KIM CLIJSTERS:  I did.  I bought some pants and a handbag and a shirt, so one outfit  - and a belt, too, yeah.  It was nice.  I went there and I didn't think ...

Q.  Which boutique? 

KIM CLIJSTERS:  It was Dolce  &  Gabbana, yeah.  It was nice.  I went in and I thought, "Oh, no," because in the beginning it's very fancy and they have the very special  -- but mine is just plain, just beige, normal pants.  Nothing too...

Q.  It's for people young like you.

KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, yeah (smiling). 

Q.  Serena didn't play very well yesterday.  What do you think about this?

KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, you know, I think the fact  -- this is the first clay court tournament she's playing so, you know...  I mean, if  I would have shown you a video of my match when I played Fed Cup, my first match on the clay, it was terrible.  So I think it's just a matter of getting used to  -- you know, tennis is a completely different game on clay, I think, and you need a lot of  -- you can practice as long as you want to, but you need the match rhythm on clay especially.  I think that's what she was just missing a little bit, but she still won in two sets.  So, I mean, so she's still strong enough even if she's not playing good at all, she can still beat some good players in two sets.

Q.  Do you have a good sensation for the red clay season? 

KIM CLIJSTERS:  I do.  You know, I don't think it's the best surface for my game, but I feel comfortable.  I always  -- I grew up playing on clay in Belgium, especially in the summer, so I enjoy playing on clay.  Like I said, you have to work harder and the rallies take a little bit longer.  Like on grass or on hard court, if I hit a good shot or a good serve, you know, most of the time it's a winner.  But here on the clay, you have to work and you have to expect every ball to come back .  Especially on clay, there's so many more good players as well.  The lower-ranked players are tougher to beat as well.  So every match is a tough one. 

Q.  Tomorrow you have to play against Black, Cara Black.  What do you think about her? 

KIM CLIJSTERS:  I've played her a few times, on hard court a few times.  She's a very tough, tough girl, you know.  She runs a lot, she gets a lot of balls back.  She has a good serve, good volley.  She's a good doubles player as well.  So I'll have to play as good as today, I think.  I'll have to be on my game, and I have to be aggressive because she's the type of player who, you know, I have to keep her under pressure and try not to let her get into the match.

Q.  For you, is it difficult to be aggressive?

KIM CLIJSTERS:  No, but I have to focus myself on doing it the whole match, because sometimes in the beginning  -- I always start well, you know.  I start playing well.  But then sometimes my game loses a little bit of concentration or, you know, I'm not focusing as much.  That's what I'm really trying to work on, is being consistent throughout the whole match. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT