PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 13, 2003
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Was that easier than you had anticipated?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Definitely.  Definitely, because I was a bit worried with the way I was playing, you know, in my previous matches.  I knew if I was going to play like that, I was going to have a really tough match.  I think when the opponents get better, I'm the type of player, I play better myself.  Today that was definitely the case, yeah.  
 
Q.  What in particular were you happy with, that you did much better?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I think I was really happy with the way I served.  I think that was definitely a key point I think, to serve well, because she returns really aggressively and she likes to, you know, dominate the points very quickly.  So, yeah, I think the serve definitely was a key point today.  And also to move her around, try not to play too much to the same corner.  Once she gets into the rhythm, she can hit the ball down the line or cross-court.  You start running.  It was really important to make her move from side to side, try to open up the court.  
 
Q.  She's been on a hot streak.  She's been playing really well.  Did that concern you at all?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No.  I mean, I don't really  -- every match is different.  It doesn't matter if an opponent is playing really good.  It can change every day.  You play different players every day.  Of course, she's had a great tournament.  She must have been playing good.  I know for myself that I have to play my best tennis to beat Chanda.  Today I did.  But I don't really try to think about previous results of players.  I just try to focus on that day, that match, at a time. 
 
Q.  How comfortable are you at this point of the tournament? 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, I'm really happy to have had this match because I played a lot better than my previous matches.  So I'm definitely, you know, a lot happier than I was yesterday after winning that match.  I'm feeling good still, except for a few injuries here and there, little ones.  But I feel good.  Yeah, it depends on who wins tonight.  I play Amanda or Conchita.  We'll see. 
 
Q.  Obviously whichever one wins, you're going to have to be prepared to stay out there for quite a while. 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I'll have to have enough hours of sleep to be fit for that one.  I mean, I think they both play similar styles.  Amanda, I think the only advantage she has is that she moves better than Conchita.  On the other hand, Conchita I think really moves the ball around better.  She mixes it up with a spin, with a slice.  That can be very tricky sometimes.  You know, I have to be ready for every point.  
 
Q.  When you're waiting to play, particularly unusual today with Lleyton playing first, close match, do you find yourself watching the TV, forgetting to do your own things to prepare?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I try not to focus on it too much because I know I have to prepare for my own match.  Yeah, I just do my own things.  Once in a while I just watch the score.  I was playing cards with my coach upstairs to just take the focus off of it a little bit.  I do get nervous watching him play, especially the tight matches.  So that's not a great preparation for my own match.  No, I think I manage all right to focus on my own stuff.  It can be hard sometimes.  
 
Q.  He had a tough one today.  You pretty much had an easy one.  Is that something you talk about?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No, not really.  I mean, we don't go that deeply into conversations about tennis.  I think that's why we both have our coaches, different coaches.  We like to sort of  -- that's their job to talk about the tennis stuff.  Of course, I mean, it's not that we don't talk about tennis at all, but it's never that we really discuss any matches.  I think we're happy to not talk about tennis once in a while. 
 
Q.  Do we know if you play day or night?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I don't know, no.  
 
Q.  Is there much difference in the conditions?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I mean, for me personally, I don't mind either of them.  I see a lot better playing at night because you don't have that much trouble with the sun and stuff.  On the other hand, I don't mind the heat.  For some players, they really don't like to be out there for too long when they're playing in warm weather conditions.  That can help you sometimes, as well.  I don't mind.  
 
Q.  You said something earlier about a couple little injuries.  Anything to be concerned about for tomorrow?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No.  I've been playing with tape on my leg for the last few days.  That was sort of stopping me from going all the way in my movements.  I've had a bit of a quad strain.  You know, it's fine.  I felt a lot better today playing without the tape because I felt like I could move freely.  It was a lot better.  Just my knee has been sort of flaring up.  I have not tendonitis, but I don't know, physio talk words, a bit too long for me.  
 
Q.  Which knee?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Left one. 
 
Q.  Do you take antiinflammatories?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No, I'm not a big fan of taking all that stuff.  It will get better.  I would much rather feel it.  If you take the antiinflammatories, if it gets worse, without them I know how bad it is, then I'll stop.  If you take them, you can make it worse.  I sort of want to feel the pain a little built. 
 
Q.  Do you think too many players are dependent on drugs?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Oh, I have no idea.  I don't know.  I have no idea what other players take, if they take like Advil or whatever.  I don't know.  But I can only speak out of my experience.  I don't like to take any of that stuff.  I believe in all the natural healing and stuff.  I'm not a big fan of all the pain killers and everything.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT