SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 22, 2012
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. CLIJSTERS/J. Goerges
  6‑2, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   So you have obviously with your seed dropping down, being unseeded here, you can play tougher players out of the gates.   Your second match in a few months.   How is that tougher for you?
KIM CLIJSTERS:   It is tough, especially ‑‑ in a way I was happy that I was able to play that first round, you know, that I don't quite have that bye off, like that first‑round off, so that gives me a little bit of rhythm ‑‑ a little bit of a lower‑ranked player where I can just get used to playing outdoors again, get used to the weather conditions.
You know, there was an improvement in my second round to my first round, and I had to.   You know, Julia is a good player and I knew stepping out on court today that I'm gonna have to play a better type of tennis.

Q.   You still think you have a long way to go from where you played today, that improvement to where you get to to contend for this title and make a deep run here?
KIM CLIJSTERS:   You know, you always have to try to be better on the day than your opponent.
I don't think there is anybody that plays a whole tournament with perfect tennis, you know, so you just have to try and battle through, find solutions when you're not playing your best. 
You know, with these weather conditions, it's tough serving.   You know, movement‑wise, you're constantly adjusting.
So that's one of mentally the biggest focuses that I have when I step out on court here in Miami.   Okay, you know, that it can be more windy, more windy compared to other tournaments. 
You just have to fight and really try to, yeah, like I said, to be good enough without overdoing it and without trying to play perfect tennis.
You know, you just have to build your way into the tournament.

Q.   I know you said yesterday that your mind can't be on tennis as much as it used to be because you're obviously much busier at home.   When you're at a tournament, how is your schedule different?   Is your daughter here with you? 
KIM CLIJSTERS:   Yeah, she is.

Q.   How is your schedule different?
KIM CLIJSTERS:   When I'm at tournaments it's actually ‑‑ because we have our nanny with us, and this trip my parents‑in‑law are here as well, so she's spending a lot of good quality family time with Brian's family.   We don't see them that often.   She's having a good time.

Q.   Does she come to matches or practice?
KIM CLIJSTERS:   Yeah, she's been at both of my matches, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT