US OPEN
August 31, 2002
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Could you tell us how you feel you did today in the match?

KIM CLIJSTERS:  I didn't start very well.  I was struggling a little bit with my movement, I think, getting used to the ball.  The wind was moving the ball around a little bit.  I think I wasn't positioning very well in the first set.  With my serve, my ball toss wasn't the same all the time.  I was struggling a little bit.  In the second set, I sort of kept fighting, keep staying on serve, seeing when I had the chance to break her.  At 4-All we had a long game, and I broke.  That's when I sort of got a little bit more, you know, like positive in myself.  I got a little positive.  Although I lost that game, I felt I could break her.  I was playing better, feeling my rhythm again.  Third set I came up two breaks.  I lost one, but I still kept fighting.  I started making less unforced errors.  It was definitely a good thing.

Q.  How good is she?  Do you think she has Top 10 potential?

KIM CLIJSTERS:  I think so.  She's still young.  I think she definitely can improve a few things.  I think she's definitely, you know, capable of getting there.  I've seen a few matches of her.  She also beat Nagyova in the second round pretty easily.  She's a pretty tough opponent, as well.  Like I said to the Belgians, in Paris I think she played three sets against Serena.  I think she's definitely capable of being in the Top 15; it's just a matter of when and how long it's going to take her. 

Q.  It's one thing to see someone and another to play them.  Were you surprised by her level in the first set?

KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, no, because I knew  -- I've seen her play before, so I knew she's a tough opponent.  You know, it's like she places her balls really deep, places the ball well.  I knew I had to be aggressive and that I had to sort of, you know, stay in charge of the points.  In the beginning, I didn't.  That's sort of where I struggled in the beginning, why I lost the first set, because I was letting her dominate the points.

Q.  What do you think about playing Mauresmo?

KIM CLIJSTERS:  She's definitely very motivated.  That's what I would feel if I would have the results she's had in the last few weeks.  She beat Jennifer last week in Montreal, had some good wins there.  She's definitely playing well.  But, you know, I'm really looking forward to play her.

Q.  Do you feel like your level is getting to the point where it could be a winnable match for you?

KIM CLIJSTERS:  I'll have to.  I'll have to play better if I want to win.  But, you know, like today, as well, even if it's not there, like in the beginning, my rhythm wasn't there at all, I kept fighting, and it turned around.  You have to keep trying, keep trying.  If it doesn't come, too bad, it doesn't come.  If you can turn those things around, that's very positive. 

Q.  Do you think, other than yourself, she's maybe one of the best athletes on the women's tour or are Venus and Serena more athletic than she is?

KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, I think Venus and Serena definitely have the height.  They're pretty tall.  I think they're still a bit taller than Amelie, I think.  I'm not sure.  Venus and Serena, they move so quick around the court.  Amelie is very fast, as well.  She defends really well.  She's definitely up there.  Yeah, she's definitely in the top three, five. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT