SANEX CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 1, 2001
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Was it a problem for you to play two days in a row like this?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No.  I mean, I was normally playing on Tuesday to play my first match.  But after having my four matches in a row in Luxembourg, it was good for me to have like one or two days off.  Like I knew if I would have won my first match, I would have had to play the next day, as well.  No, I mean, I'm feeling good.  I don't have any injuries.  I'm still young.  I'm capable of doing it, I think.  
 
Q.  Were you expecting Arantxa to be so tough, especially in the first set?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No.  I mean, she's been playing  -- all the other times I played her, she wasn't as aggressive as she played today.  So, I mean, I have a lot of respect for her.  She's a great opponent.  Yeah, I mean, she played really well.  She was reading my game really well and anticipating very well, as well.  I felt like once I won the first set, I was feeling more comfortable in my rallies, I was hitting the ball a little bit more to the lines better than the first set.  I was making it a little bit more difficult for her.  
 
Q.  Your next opponent is Lindsay.  Are you very impressed by what she's doing the last three, four weeks?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  She's been playing very well.  I mean, I saw her play Jelena today and also like the previous tournament she played Jelena a few times.  She's playing great.  She actually looks very fit to me, as well - the fittest she's ever been, I think.  She's moving well.  The serve, she's serving very well.  I've beaten her in Stanford, but you just have to do everything good if I want to beat her.  I just have to focus and try to take every chance that I can get.  
 
Q.  When you reached the final at Roland Garros this year, your whole country seemed to be excited.  You're now in the semifinal of the Masters.  What about excitement now?  Is everybody used to your success?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I don't know.  I mean, I'm not in Belgium at the moment so I don't know what's happening.  I think in the French Open it was more like the first time that something  -- the best result in tennis someone had.  That was like the beginning.  But I think now after Justine making the finals at Wimbledon, winning tournaments, I think they're getting a little bit used to it.  Yeah, I mean, it's hard for me to say what's happening in Belgium at the moment because I'm not there.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT