WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2001
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  You lost a lot of times against Davenport.  You think that you can beat her? 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, not today.  I mean, she played too good for me today.  I had a few chances, like I broke her a few times.  But I couldn't put enough pressure on her return game.  I was losing my serve quite easily all the time.  Yeah, that's probably what made the difference.  But I've been close to beating her already two times.  I've played two three-setters against her.  I've been closer than what I've shown today.  But, you know, today she was just too good.  
 
Q.  Will she beat Venus if she plays like this? 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Oh, I don't know.  It all depends.  I mean, Venus is a player that hits the ball a lot harder than me, and that serves a lot harder, as well.  It's not up to me to answer that question, I think.  
 
Q.  What's the toughest part of playing Lindsay?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, I mean, you really have to focus on your own service games because it's so, so hard to beat her if she serves well  -- to break her if she serves well.  Also it's hard to find your own rhythm because she goes for every shot, so it's hard to find your own rhythm.  And it's hard to hit angles on the court, because she hits the ball so deep and she hits it so flat, so it's not easy, you know, to let her run.  
 
Q.  What is your attitude for doubles?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I think it's good for us to play doubles, also for my singles.  I really enjoy playing doubles.  It's a little bit more relaxing.  I've got a nice partner, so it's good.  I mean, doubles is a little bit more relaxing, I think.  
 
Q.  How is your new partner?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  She's very nice.  It's great.  I mean, last year we played one tournament together in San  Diego.  We played well.  We lost in a tight match to a good doubles pair.  But, yeah, we're having fun.  We play well here in our first two rounds.  I hope we can keep it up this way, yeah.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT