TMS - INDIAN WELLS, WOMEN
March 13, 2001
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Tell us how you saw the match today. 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Before the match?  
 
Q.  How you saw the match. 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I know that she's a good player.  She beat a lot of good players this week.  Well, she's got a great serve, as well.  She hits the ball very hard.  I knew that I had to be focused throughout the whole match.  She has her ups and downs throughout the match.  I knew she could start off really well, hit a lot of winners.  I just kept focused, tried to keep the pressure on, and it worked. 
 
Q.  How does it feel at your age to be the more experienced one?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, well, I played a lot bigger tournaments than she did.  I've come further than she has.  She's a great player.  I'm quite sure she will have a few more good results, yeah.  
 
Q.  You've had some very good results here this week.  Where do you think your game stands right now?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I'm feeling very comfortable at the moment.  I'm playing good.  I could still play a little bit better, but I'm winning my matches.  That's the most important thing, I think.  
 
Q.  You face a potential match-up with Martina.  I don't think you've ever beaten her yet. 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  No.  The last time we played  -- I played her three times I think already.  The first two times like it was close.  The second set was always closer than the first set.  Then in Sydney I played her this year.  It was close.  I mean, two sets, 6-4, 6-4, but I had some chances.  I'm more experienced now than I was in the beginning of the year.  Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.  I'm going to enjoy it.  She's a great player.  I've got nothing to lose. 
 
Q.  What do you think is the one thing you have to get over to beat Martina?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I think I have to play my best tennis to beat her.  I mean, she's a very talented player.  I really admire her and everything she does.  She's been No.  1 in the world for several years already now.  She's probably the best player on the tour at the moment.  But, yeah, I've got nothing to lose against her, like I said.  I'm just going to go out there and enjoy it.  
 
Q.  When you're playing someone like Elena, she hits the ball very big, doesn't have a lot of experience, do you have any idea what she's going to do?  Are you mentally prepared for anything?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Like I saw a few of her matches before, before this match.  She's got her ups and downs.  She can play very good tennis like one game and then she can hit like a lot of easy mistakes, a lot of unforced errors as well.  I tried to get like a few balls in the court.  Once I had the chance to hit the ball a little bit harder, to move around, that's what I was supposed to do today.  I think I moved her around good enough.  I served well enough.  I think I returned good today, yeah.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you're starting to play your best tennis?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yes, I'm playing better and better every match. 
 
Q.  Can you come up with a strategy to beat Martina?  What do you have to do?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I think you have to play aggressive enough to beat Martina.  Once you start to play with her, she's too strong.  She's got the touch, she's quick enough.  I think I have to be aggressive from the first point until the last point.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT