AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2001
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Well done today.  You have devastating form.
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I am very happy with the level that I played today; a lot better than my first two singles matches.  I am starting to hit the ball better.  I felt comfortable on the court today.  
 
Q.  Next opponent is Lindsay Davenport.  How do you feel about playing her?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I have lost against her twice already and like in three sets, but like it's always been like a close match and I have had my chances a few times but it is going to be very tough of course, yeah. 
 
Q.  Tactically out there what are you going to do?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I am just going to play my same game.  I will have to be on my top, of course, like the day after tomorrow and  -- but I am looking forward to it.  I am going to enjoy it, I think. 
 
Q.  Do you think performances like today and maybe  a good run in the tournament that people in Australia start to recognize you more for your game rather than being Lleyton's  girlfriend?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I hope so.  Like I said, I mean, it is great to play here and I am a tennis player.  That has got nothing to do with Lleyton or me.  I am a tennis player.  I am focusing on my tournaments and on my career.  It is not like just because we are boyfriend and girlfriend -- I am just focusing on my things.   
 
Q.  How are you feeling about this afternoon's game, mixed doubles?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yes, well I don't think we are going to play because Lleyton has a bit of ham string injury so I think it is better for me and for him that we have a day off like that we have a day off. 
 
Q.  How will you feel if he carries on with his normal antics on the court?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I mean, he is fine.  It is fine.  That is why I love to see him play tennis.  I really enjoy it when he does all those things. 
 
Q.  You enjoy all that?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Yeah, I am a bit myself like that I think. 
 
Q.  Do you think most tennis fans do?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I think so.   He is a great fighter.  I think that is what the crowd loves, yeah. 
 
Q.  How amazing did you think that performance was yesterday?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, like I said, I mean, he was down all three sets and that is why I mean, I think we have to give him all the credit that he is such a fighter and, yeah, he never gives up. 
 
Q.  Are you going to imitate his antics or do you have just your own style?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I am a different tennis player than him.  I have got my own strengths and completely different players, yeah. 
 
Q.  Do you ever have an element of sympathy for your opponent who was able to win just one game or does that even creep into your mind?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  You don't really think about it.  You always feel a little bit sorry though, like if it would happen to you as well.  But yeah, I mean, that is -- I am there to win and I am there like to keep winning like the more games and I am just trying to finish it off as soon as I can.  
 
Q.  What would you consider your strengths going up against Davenport?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, I have played her at the US Open and in the Fed Cup last year and I have to keep hanging in there and I mean, she is a great server so I will have to return very well to break her.  I will have to serve very well in my own serve game.  So it is going to be very tough and I mean, she is a very good player and  -- but I am, like I said, I am looking forward to playing against her. 
 
Q.  Back on the Lleyton issue, how do you feel when you hear a comment from Brad Gilbert saying that he wouldn't be surprised if he got punched in the nose because of his antics?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I don't know why everyone -- that is what--  like I said, that is his personality.  He is a great fighter and I mean, that is why I think they love him so much.  I mean, he keeps fighting even if he is down and I think that is what he showed yesterday.  
 
Q.  Bit unfair what Brad said, do you think?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  I haven't heard what he said so I can't comment on that, sorry.  
 
Q.  Did you even think about it a little bit maybe it would be nice if you -- when it gets to be 3-Love in the second you sort of think (Inaudible.)
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  You don't really think about it.  I am just -- I couldn't even think of the score while I was out there. I am just focusing like every point.  Even when she had a couple of points to win the game, I was still trying to keep my ball in and go for my shots.  Yeah, I mean, at 5-Love, I must say that she played a good game, yeah, I mean, all the credit to her.  She kept trying.  That is why she won -- I mean, that is why she went through the qualies and came into the third round. 
 
Q.  When you are matching up against Lindsay do you think about the fact that she won quite easily today or do you sort of look at that and say she is playing well or do you look at her struggles the other two matches?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  She must be playing quite well because I saw her playing last week in Sydney.  She played some unbelievable tennis there.  And yeah, I mean, she is No. 2 in the world, so she is always on top level, and that is well, I mean, like I respect her a lot.  Yeah. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT