AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2001
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Are you feeling confident after that game? You can go on from here?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS: Well, there's one big advantage, that's that I won this Match Playing bad tennis.  So I'm happy with that.  But I'm not happy with the level that I played today.  Like, again, as my first match, really hard, hard conditions out there.  A lot of wind.  So it was hard for me.  But I'm happy to go through to the third round, yeah.  
 
Q.  What do you think is wrong with your game at the moment?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS: Well, I've played really well at the Hopman Cup and in Sydney.  Now, like, the Hopman Cup was indoors, nicer  -- nice  -- was no wind, nothing.  And now like with the sun and then, you know, I just have to get used to that.  I think I have to practice a little bit more tomorrow to get into our third match tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Was it because of all the excitement of Lleyton's match last night?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS: No, not at all.  That had nothing to do with that.  It was the same as my first match, so, yeah, it was like hard again.  I'm not  -- like I wasn't moving very well today in my first match.  So I'm just going to work on that tomorrow and then it will probably get better the day after tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Is that the first time you've had sort of a fresh air shot on a serve?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS: Yeah, that's the first time that ever happened, yeah.  While I was bringing my racquet up, the wind just blew the ball away, it just dropped on my back.  So it was like bad luck.  
 
Q.  Is it difficult to come down like with Lleyton playing last night and you obviously watching there, is it hard to come down after that and focus? 
 
KIM CLIJSTERS:  Or is it just  -- he's playing his tournament.  I'm playing my tournament.  I'm focusing on my matches.  I watched one set of his, I went to bed.  I went to the hotel, I went to sleep. 
 
Q.  We're both playing, I'm playing my matches, I'm focusing on my matches, I'm not focusing on his matches.  It's good that he wins and I'm happy for him.  My main goal is to keep focused.
 
 
Q.  You're not lying in bed tempted to flick the remote on?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS: No, not at all.  
 
Q.  I couldn't help but notice the ring on your finger, too.  Is there an announcement you have to make?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS: No, it was a birthday present. 
 
Q.  Oh, was it?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS: Yeah.  
 
Q.  I thought it was  -- it's on your engagement finger?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS: No, I don't like it on my right hand.  That's why.  Bad luck.  
 
Q.  Priya Prasad.  What are you going to do between now and your next match to pick your game up?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS: Like I said, I'll work hard tomorrow.  I've got doubles tomorrow.  I probably will have a practice session tomorrow before my match, or maybe after my doubles.   But it's good that I have another match tomorrow, my doubles match.  And, yeah, it will probably get better.  I'll just have to get used to, like, the circumstances, the wind and everything.  It will be better. 
 
Q.  It's the adjustment from indoors to outdoors?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS: No, like in Sydney, everything was fine.  I mean, I was  -- it was no wind, not as much wind as now.  And, yeah, like that's what every tennis player has to go through this.  I mean I'll get better.  I mean, I'm really happy that I keep winning my matches without playing my best tennis.  That's a good sign I think.  
 
Q.  Kim, when you were sitting in the stands with Lleyton's family last night, people thought that you could be a member of the family, in appearance that you actually look like them?
 
KIM CLIJSTERS: That's what I've heard.  A lot of people, yeah, say that we could be brother or sister.  But like we're not.  So, yeah.  I don't know.  (Laughing.) 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT