WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2000
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Good afternoon. Kim Clijsters.  
 
Q. How did it affect you, that line decision in the second set?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Well, it was a tough call. I mean, I tried to get myself over it, but it
was not very easy. I lost my concentration there a little bit maybe. I lost my serve game.
Yeah, I started to like focus really well at the beginning of the third set, so that was
good.  
 
Q. How did you feel when you saw your draw, that you had to play Tauziat first round?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Well, playing Tauziat on grass especially is always a tough draw. But
I've made some good results on grass. If I would have played good tennis, I mean,
everything is possible. I mean, it's not that she's not beatable. She's a normal person.
She's beatable, as well, yeah. 
 
Q. After losing early at Roland Garros, were you able to pick your confidence back up
coming into this tournament?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Yeah, well, it was a little bit tough here for me. I've had some tough
draws this year already. You have to beat them in the first round or maybe later. You just
go for it, yeah. 
 
Q. What are your expectations now for the tournament? Obviously people know who you
are, you did well here last year. 
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Well, I'm just focusing match by match, then we'll see. I mean, I don't
know who I'm playing. One of the opponents are still playing. It might be Laurence
Courtois, or Myskina from Russia. Every match is tough. Yeah, I've beat a seeded player
now, but it doesn't mean anything. I'll just focus on every match and then we'll see. 
 
Q. How well did you play today? At what level are you playing?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: I was really happy with my level today, especially for not really the
second set, but the first set. Then the third set, I played really well. I served well in
the first and the second. I was returning quite well. She started to serve a little better
in the second set. Yeah, it was okay. I'm quite satisfied with my match today, yeah.  
 
Q. I guess a lot has been made about Nathalie's book. Have you heard about it? Has
there been any reaction to it?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Not really. Not that I know of. I've been reading a little bit about it
in the newspapers. I haven't read it yet. Maybe I'll read it, yeah. 
 
Q. Have you heard of any reaction to it in the locker room?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Not really. Maybe in the top players or something. Maybe they will talk
about it. But I don't know.  
 
Q. Is Wimbledon getting to be a fairytale for you?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: I love to play here. I've been playing well since I've been playing
Juniors here. I really like the grass. I like the atmosphere here at Wimbledon, the people
and everything. Yeah, we'll see what happens.  
 
Q. Is Lleyton a support during this tournament? Are you dissecting each other's matches
or will you be?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Yeah. Well, not today because he's playing at the moment. It's a little
bit tough. 
 
Q. Are you a bit sad that you can't watch it?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Yeah, I'm trying to hurry up (laughter). It's good support to have him
here, and helps me a lot. 
 
Q. Are you going out in the evening in Wimbledon and having fun or are you being very
good and staying in?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: It's not easy because, like yesterday with the rain, he was scheduled
late. I don't know, he got called off at seven o'clock or something. I just had dinner
already. It's quite tough with two tennis players. Yeah, it's going well. 
 
Q. Are you staying together at the moment?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: No, no.  
 
Q. Are you staying in a hotel or a private house?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: An apartment. 
 
Q. Same as last year?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Last year I stayed in a hotel.  
 
Q. What made the difference in this match?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Well, I think that one of the big -- I sort of think that I believe more
that I could win than her. The crowd was behind me, so that helped me a lot. That helped
me through the match, as well. I think at the exact moments, I was returning really well.
I think that's what made a big difference. 
 
Q. After the second set, what came through your mind?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Nothing. Just start all over again, just try to focus on the first game,
try to win it, then you're already a step ahead if you win the first game. 
 
Q. Did you find any weak points in her game?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Well, I mean, one of the big advantages against her is if you can let
her run. I think that's quite a good thing to do. If you're playing everything to her, she
can come to the net, I mean, she comes with the slice, deep slice through the middle, and
you can't pass her. It's hard to pass her when she's coming to the net, to interlope her.
I'm trying some dropshots, but I'm seeing she was running very fast today.  
 
Q. How far can you go now?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: I don't know. I don't know.  
 
Q. Better than last year?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: I mean, I'm in the second round now. I have to focus on the second
round. I'm not really focusing on that at the moment.  
 
Q. Do you worry about your ranking?
 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Not really, no.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT