SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 25, 2011
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. CLIJSTERS/I. Dodig
  6-1, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It was a very quick match. What were you expecting coming in? Is it just good to get the first one over with?
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Yeah, I mean, it was a player, you know, that I knew she had good result last week in the Bahamas, but never played against her. Didn't really know too much about her. 
 So just in these last couple days tried to focus on my own game, tried to be aggressive, and kind of just like find my footwork again. I took a few days off after Indian Wells, and you just need some time to get back into it again. 
 I was happy with the way that I played. Obviously a few things can still be better, but I think overall I, you know, played -- yeah, I played pretty high standard level today.

 Q. How was the shoulder?
 KIM CLIJSTERS: I mean, it's not fully healed, but it's, you know, healing. I think that's to me the biggest relief at the moment. After Indian Wells I was pretty worried. 
 You know, now I feel that I'm almost able to do everything that I want out there, so, you know, that definitely wasn't the case last week.

 Q. At the beginning are you tentative when you have an injury like that, or do you just dive right into the match?
 KIM CLIJSTERS: No, I'm in the gym a little while before I go out doing a lot of shoulder exercises, making sure that it's ready before I, you know, go out there and start serving straightaway, if I lose the toss or if my opponent decides, you know, that I have to start serving. 
 So I'm ready to go already. You know, 20 minutes before I start doing a lot of wrist exercises, shoulder exercises.

 Q. Is there anything that you felt uncomfortable with in this match or something that you can improve upon?
 KIM CLIJSTERS: I mean, yeah, you can obviously improve on a lot of things. I still think my first serve percentage is something that I just have to keep watching. 
 Okay, against a player like her today, she really doesn't take that many risks on the return so it didn't make it that pick of a deal. But I think against my next opponent, you know, everything will be a little bit -- has to be a little bit better. 
 I think my forehand was really good today; my backhand was consistent at some points, but I felt that there were a few moments in there where I felt that I had to step in with my backhand a little bit. 
 So just little details that to me I have to just work on even in practice tomorrow.

 Q. Has Jada been having fun? What have you or what has she been doing?
 KIM CLIJSTERS: She's been having fun. We have quite a lot of family members here, so, you know, she's hanging out with the family. And at the hotel -- we're staying here at Key Biscayne, so it's been really easy.

 Q. Does she like the beach?
 KIM CLIJSTERS: She does. We haven't really been to the beach. There is a nice salt water pool in the hotel, and she's been making friends with the older kids there. Yeah, she's enjoying it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT