AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2011
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. CLIJSTERS/A. Cornet
  7-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Was that your toughest match so far?
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Yeah, I think so. Uhm, yeah, she was a tricky player. I think, like I said out there on the court, I think her forehand and backhand, it's like two different players almost. She really has a lot of variety in her game, not so much by touch, slice and everything, but I think with her forehand she was really putting a lot of heavy spin on it, moving a lot of balls as well. With her backhand, she was hitting shorter, low over the net flat balls. It was up to me to keep my footwork on key every time ready to adjust. 
 Yeah, you know, I felt a couple times out there I didn't finish off my point well. I felt that I was building my points pretty well when I was in charge, but a couple times missed easier volleys, felt that I could have maybe hit a drive volley and finished off the points a little bit sooner. 
 I worked out there, stayed focused, stayed mentally tough. Yeah, so that's what you have to do.

 Q. In her press conference, she thought you could play a lot better. Does that make you feel better?
 KIM CLIJSTERS: I know that (laughter). I know I can. 
 But, you know, you never play a whole tournament playing your best tennis. And you have to also, you know, work for it. I think that's what I had to do today. Tomorrow out on the practice court I'm going to try to hit a lot of balls, try to get that feel for it again, move better. Just little things that keep that rhythm or get the rhythm to where I want it to be. 

 Q. The results over the last couple of days, have you afforded yourself the luxury of looking forward as to what the scenarios might be in the second week?
 KIM CLIJSTERS: No, I don't really. I mean, my next opponent could have been Nadia Petrova, I lost to her. Makarova is a tricky left-hander. Anybody, it could have been me, too. You're talking now about other players. So many things can happen in the draw. I think it would be wrong to look further ahead and to think about what can happen in the future. I just need to stay focused on what I have to do out there. 
 You know, my first set today was tough. It was close. Could have made it a lot harder for myself I think out there. So just focus on what you have to do on court, to recover, to try to be the best player out there every match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT