WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS - DOHA 2010
October 29, 2010
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. ZVONAREVA/K. Clijsters
  6-4, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You'll be playing Sam Stosur; you've got a pretty good record against her. How do you feel good into that match?   
 KIM CLIJSTERS: You know, obviously last night's match was pretty tough, and kind of just felt it today. So obviously I'm going to have to feel much better, and then just going to have to get my energy back. I kind of just felt flat out there today.  
 Again, you know, I have a few -- I have the morning off kind of, and just around 4:00 I'll practice. I'm going to really use that time to recover and to be as fresh as possible.   
  
  Q. What did you learn from the new and improved Sam Stosur in your US Open win over here?  
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Sam has always been a girl who has been -- she's had a different type of play. I think she's improved her strengths, which are her serve and forehand a lot. I think her footwork and speed has improved a lot. I think that was definitely one of her weaknesses in the past when I played her before.   
 Now she's definitely found a game that I think really, really suits her. She feels a lot more comfortable being out there. I think that has shown in her results as well.  
  
  Q. When did you know about Elena's decision?   
 KIM CLIJSTERS: I think, yeah, just before her match today. Before they started, the WTA told us.   
  
  Q. Which was your reaction?   
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Um, I mean, it's not that I was surprised. But, you know, obviously she's I think one year older, or maybe two years older than I am, so she's been on the road for a very long time and has always been very dedicated.  
 You know, it's a part of life. Tennis is a big part of her life, but it's going to go away at some point as well. She's a great competitor. I grew up playing juniors against her, with her, and we had a long career together, so it was nice to be there when she retired.   
  
  Q. Elena indicated she hopes to start a family, and she's at the stage of life where she wants a big change. You're a mother who's come back to the tour. What advice would you give her in terms of what to expect with motherhood and whatnot?  
 KIM CLIJSTERS: I don't really think it's up to me to give advice. She has a good head on her shoulders, and she's a girl who -- she's smart. She knows what that he wants. She's had a boyfriend for a long time. If she says she's, she's ready.   
 It's her life, so I'm not going to say, You should do this or you should do that. Like I said, she's wise enough to make her own decisions. If she's ready, she's ready.  
  
  Q. It's fair enough to say it was a pretty good career move for you, wasn't it?  
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Yeah, it was. Obviously it was something that I decided to do with my family. It's, again, not going to be going on for five more years or so, so I'm just going to try and enjoy my time on the road as much as possible.   
 You know, my family life is, you know -- means a lot more.   
  
  Q. You're not the only one who won this Championships before, the only one be in semifinal. It was a long time ago, but do you think you are in the mood or fit to go get this Championship again after these years?  
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Um, I mean, the Championships are different. I think the ones that I won before were indoors, so I think it's probably the biggest change I've noticed being at the Championships is this year is that they're outdoors.  
 The event is amazing. I think the Championships, there's always a very special vibe to it. The WTA really tries to make the event as perfect as possible. I try to, you know, do my best whenever I go out there, and we'll see what happens.   
 Every match has to be played; every match is tough at the Championships. We'll see where it goes. You know, I'm going to try to just try and win my match tomorrow, and then we'll see if I can do it or not.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT