WTA CHAMPIONSHIPS - DOHA 2010
October 27, 2010
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. CLIJSTERS/J. Jankovic
  6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. How do you feel after this first match? 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Um, I'm happy I won. That's obviously probably the most important thing when you play in this kind of format with the round robin. I think each match is important. 
 It wasn't my best tennis, but still good enough to win in two pretty easy sets. The score was a lot easier than it was. But I felt I did a lot of good things. Also a few little things that I just need to tweak better by tomorrow. Just need to, yeah, just do a few little things better.
 Gradually I think the more matches I get the better it will go. 

 Q. You seem to be moving really well out there. Didn't seem to be any hesitation or anything because of your foot injury. 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: No, no. It's fully healed, so I -- even when I started practicing, it was -- you know, I had the scab there that once in a while opened up again. That's healed now as well. The scab fell off actually a few days ago, so it's just, yeah, normal again. 

 Q. What is your sense now? Do you think you could win? Will you win this Championships after coming out and getting back into it? Do you think it is something you can win?
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Yeah, of course I think it's possible. Obviously I definitely need to play a lot better than I did today if I want to be able to first of all get through in my group. I have two tough matches coming up with Azarenka and Zvonareva, so it'll be tough. 
 Anything is possible from then. If you can give yourself two good matches and kind of build your confidence and you match rhythm up, anything is possible. You never know what happens in that other group.
 So, I mean, I believe that I can. But, again, it's sports, and everything has to be played. Need to be a little bit lucky, too.

 Q. The one that thing that stood out is the double faults. What happened there? 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Yeah, a little bit of both. Some good serves, few aces, and then some double faults as well.
 You know, it's not that I'm worried about that. I know that obviously I need to step it up when I hit that second serve. I need to not hesitate and not kind of just roll it in. My second serve goes best when I jump out of my legs, jump up, and just really let that arm go and work the ball a little bit more than the first serve.
 When I do that, that's when I'm serving really well. I have the tendency to a lot of times worry about the next shot. I don't finish off my service motion, and I'm already kind of retrieving or reacting to my opponent's return. 

 Q. You said that you have a lot of time for you. Is it good your tennis, or sometimes the time is too long for you here? 
 KIM CLIJSTERS: Excuse me? I didn't understand. 

 Q. You said you have a lot of time because you're not with your family here. Is it good for your tennis?
 KIM CLIJSTERS: It good for my tennis? Let me just say I would prefer to have them here. Obviously in these kind of conditions you have to see how you feel. In the beginning, the first couple days, when I got here, I wanted to practice two long sessions every day. It just physically was not possible because of the change that your body was going through.
 But, um, if I feel like that, even when my family is here, I do it. If I feel that I need it, I will do it. It's not that they're a distraction for my tennis when they're there. I just have to balance it differently, plan it differently. 
 Even when I'm in Belgium now, you know, Jada still sleeps in the afternoon, so I try to do an early practice and then I'm home. When she goes to sleep, I go for another workout or gym workout. So I just try to I balance it like that.
 Now obviously the balancing or the planning doesn't have to be as precise. It's a little bit easier in that way. I just would have liked to have had them here, of course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT