SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 23, 2007
Kim Clijsters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Could you just talk about what the motivating factor?  You looked really motivated second and third set.   
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  Well, I had to do something else.  The first set was definitely not going the way I wanted it to go.  I really felt like I was looking for my movement the whole time.   
 I really didn't feel like my footwork was quite there.  When I felt I was moving well, I felt like my upper body was always out of balance.  So then you kind of just have to -- I knew my weakness was my unforced errors.   
 I knew if I was going to -- I knew what I had to do as change that.  It wasn't she was hitting a lot of winners and hitting me off the court, I was just making mistakes.  When you sit down after that first set you just try to think and just get things going again, just try to keep the unforced errors down.   
 At the same time be aggressive, as well, because she's a girl who likes to -- she moves well and she doesn't miss that much.  But you just have to try to make her make the mistakes.   
 So it was a good time to wake up after that first set.  It wasn't good tennis.   
  
  Q.  After the second set you were so dominating there.  Were you surprised that you kept that going and in the third set you kind of steamrolled a little bit?   
 KIM CLIJSTERS:  A little bit.  It's hard how you can -- like in one match go from the first set making so many unforced errors to completely not losing a game anymore.  That's the reason why it's always strange.   
 Like when I see scores from other girls or guys.  I mean, guys not as much probably, but other girls it always surprises me how that can happen.  You have a 6-Love set in there and I had two today.  Yeah, I don't know, it just changes.   
 I'm happy it did; I'm not complaining.  I was hoping for it to.  I mean, I ended the game with a good feeling, so that's important.  It's not that I started off well and ended bad.  I ended a lot better than I started, so that's always I think the thing you look for in a tournament.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT