NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 13, 2018
Prince Fielder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR: Prince will be throwing out the first pitch on behalf of the Brewers.  Who's got the first question?
Q. Prince, we talked to you in July when you were back for the first time in a long time.  Did you think it would be twice in one year?
PRINCE FIELDER: No.
Q. Do you feel like you're kind of reconnecting with this place and this franchise?
PRINCE FIELDER: A little bit, yeah.  It's always awesome to come back, especially here.  It's where my career started, so anytime they want me back, I'll gladly come.  It's fun.  Gives us something to do.
Q. The last time the Brewers were in the NLCS, you were here as well.  What do you remember from that post-game clubhouse and kind of that feeling of finality?  I remember being in there and your son crying?
PRINCE FIELDER: Yeah.
Q. And all these things going on?
PRINCE FIELDER: There he is.
Q. What do you remember about that?
PRINCE FIELDER: Just that.  It was a fun year, but obviously, anytime the year ends before you want it to, it hurts a little bit.  But I just remember it was just a good year.  It was my last year here.  My family was here.  Everybody was just having a good time.  You had T Plush and it was just a good time.  Like I said, it was sad when it ended, but it was a fun year.
Q. How are you physically now with everything?
PRINCE FIELDER: Good.
Q. What are you able to do and unable to do with the neck?
PRINCE FIELDER: Just anything that doesn't require running into anything, you know.  (Laughs).  As long as my neck doesn't go hard back and forth, we're good.  Just safe stuff, I guess.
Q. Prince, that 2011 team was kind of expected to be good after they got Greinke and Marcum.  But this one's kind of come out of a rebuild way quicker than people thought.  I know you can only follow them from afar, but I know you kind of keep tabs on them.  Have they exceeded your expectations or what do you think of all this?
PRINCE FIELDER: I don't know.  I think the players are playing awesome.  Anytime players are playing to the best of their abilities, that's what happens.  I think when everybody has, like I said, a great year, this is what happens.  So I think that's what's happening now.
Q. Prince, when you were playing along with Craig as a teammate, could you see him in the position that he is now, and are you surprised with the way it's worked out for him?
PRINCE FIELDER: No, no.  I always -- yeah, I definitely thought he would be here.  He helped me a lot when I was playing with him, so I can only imagine him being the coach.  I'm sure he's helping all those guys.  His attitude is always, I think, good for these situations, especially in tense situations.  He was always calm, and I mean, I think he's doing a great job.
Q. Are there any ways that you remember Craig helping you out?
PRINCE FIELDER: There was one time I was thinking about bunting and he told me if I bunt, he'll punch me in the face.  (Laughs).  And then there was another time --
Q. He still feels that way about bunting.
PRINCE FIELDER: Yeah.  There was another time, I was like, Counsell, I want to get my defense better.  And he was like, "Well, Prince, the first thing is stop trying to get balls you can't get to.  That's a start."
I was like, "Oh, that makes sense."
He made everything simple, you know.  I think that's why he's in this position now.
Q. Prince, this team has earned a reputation just for their chemistry and how loose they play, the fun that they have in the dugout.  And you've been on teams, the 2011 team, that had big moments like that.  How much does that matter, especially in the postseason?
PRINCE FIELDER: I mean, it matters a lot, especially, you know, because in baseball you fail so much.  When we do bad, we get mad at ourselves a lot.  So why not when you do good, celebrate it.  So I think it helps a lot just with chemistry and overall fun.  You play every day.  If you try to go out there and try to act like -- try to not be a certain way or try not to have fun, it's going to be a long season.
So I think when teams are having fun and they got their own thing going and they're jumping up-and-down, that's when teams are their best.
Q. Prince, when is the last time you actually threw out a ceremonial first pitch, and do you get nervous?  Because I know you're used to being out there in the ballpark?
PRINCE FIELDER: On the ride over here, my youngest son said, "Are you going to throw from the mound?  You might throw it into the ground."  I'm a little nervous now.  You put that in my head.
Q. Prince, what do you remember on the field from Game 1 of the NLCS?  I think when you hit a home run there was a big rally there, big win for you guys here in Miller Park.  What sort of resonates or what images stick out in your mind from that moment?
PRINCE FIELDER: Just that.  I believe Braun was on second.  I was trying to get him over, and I just remember hitting the ball.  I didn't really feel it hit my bat.  I hit it really hard.  That's really it.  I was kind of pumped up, though, because I think I got hit the pitch before after Brauny hit one to Chicago.  I was a little upset about that, but it worked out that day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT