NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CARDINALS v BREWERS
October 16, 2011
Prince Fielder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







St. Louis Cardinals 12
  Milwaukee Brewers 6

 Q. What was going through your mind at your final at-bat when the fans were giving you a standing ovation?
 PRINCE FIELDER: It was awesome, just because -- playing here was awesome. I'm just glad I was able to have the amount of fun I had. It was cool. It was cool. 

 Q. What do you make of the last two games? You guys played so well in Game 4 to tie the series, and not so great the last three games. 
 PRINCE FIELDER: They just played better. They played great baseball. You've got to give them the credit. They played unbelievable baseball. They were hitting; they made good pitches when they had to. They just beat us. But I think our team really did a good job. I'm proud of the way we played, just unfortunately they got -- they did it. So you've got to live with it and move on.

 Q. How long will you look back on this season and when do you start looking forward to this off-season?
 PRINCE FIELDER: Well, probably tomorrow. That's when the off-season starts for us, at least.
 Like I said, we gave it all we've got. And that's all you can do. After that, like I say, as long as I play as hard as I can, I'm able to sleep at night. That's it. Time to go play with the kids.

 Q. Since you were in there, was it hard taking the jersey off? Did you soak it in?
 PRINCE FIELDER: I had to clear the throat once, but it was all right. I love these guys. I've been playing with most of them since I was 18. So this organization has been great to me. Yeah, man, it's just been good. It's been real. 

 Q. If this is indeed your last game, what legacy do you think you have left with this team and was this the way you envisioned your career as a Brewer ending?
 PRINCE FIELDER: Well, no, obviously I envisioned us winning the World Series. But that didn't happen.
 Like I said, I'm not mad at all about this year because it is what it is. I think we played hard. Like I said, we had a great year as a team. Unfortunately we didn't get to where we wanted to go. But still some great moments and great memories in there.
 Like I said, this year has been awesome.

 Q. Any thoughts on whether you think you'll be back?
 PRINCE FIELDER: I'm not thinking about that quite yet. I'm just trying to say good-bye to my teammates. It's the off-season, you're not going to see them at 3:00 every day. I'm trying to say good-bye to them. Trying to keep the throat clear.

 Q. Again, if this is your last game here, is there a moment from this season that will stand out in your Brewers career or is there one from years before as the defining moment?
 PRINCE FIELDER: I think this whole year probably stands out. Because this is -- obviously everybody knew it was my free agent year. But the amount of fun -- it's been the easiest year I've ever had, for some reason. I think the coaching staff and the players, I think this has been the easiest year for me mentally, being able to go out every day and just playing hard. This year has been awesome. I'm happy about everything, this whole year. 

 Q. When we were talking earlier you said playing here was awesome?
 PRINCE FIELDER: Uh-huh.

 Q. Have you pretty well ruled out playing here again?
 PRINCE FIELDER: No, as far as this year, it's over. This year is over. Why are you trying to do that? Come on, man, next question. 

 Q. About half dozen years in Milwaukee. When you first came to Milwaukee until now, what were your thoughts when you first came here, and could you have envisioned your -- again, it might be over, might not be, but just looking back when you first started here, what's that like?
 PRINCE FIELDER: It's been cool. I've kind of grown up a little bit. My kids have gotten older. That's about it, really. Just gotten older. Every year has been a learning experience. I don't know, it's been cool, man. Hopefully I'm here for more years to come. But if not, it's been cool. 

 Q. Does having a year like this almost tempt you to come back or does that not really play into consideration?
 PRINCE FIELDER: I'm not thinking about that right now. I'm just trying to enjoy the moment and soak it up. 

 Q. Were you aware that Albert -- it was Albert who called time?
 PRINCE FIELDER: Yeah.

 Q. What do you think about that? Seemed like maybe he did it to extend your moment. 
 PRINCE FIELDER: Yeah, I guess. Yeah. Probably. That's cool. I appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT