NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: GOLDEN KNIGHTS vs JETS
May 19, 2018
Cody Eakin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. One of the strengths of your team has been living in the moment.  Obviously this is a different moment than any other.  Another win and you go to the Stanley Cup Final.  How do you stay focused on that first shift?
CODY EAKIN: We know we got to play our best hockey.  Especially this time of year, there's not a team that is going to roll over and die.  They're going to come out swinging.  It's going to be loud.  Like you said, we've been living in the moment, we're preparing the first shift.
Q. Is this the most fun you've ever had playing hockey?
CODY EAKIN: Yeah, I mean, I would say that winning and having fun go hand-in-hand.  I've been on a few teams that have been pretty good, won a few times.  Like I said, they all go hand-in-hand.  We're just having fun, we're living in the moment like you said.  It's been pretty enjoyable.
Q. Late last night in the game you guys looked fresh.  If you look at the ice time after the game, they've got some guys red-lining really high in the 20s, and you guys are all kind of jammed in between 24 and 16.  How big a factor is that?
CODY EAKIN: I think it's important to be able to roll four lines.  Obviously with penalties, power plays, it kind of changes the dynamic and the amount of minutes some guys play.  It makes it a little more difficult in certain times.
Our ability and our depth that we've used the whole season has been a positive factor in all our success so far.
Q. Must be a building block, even continuing?  Like if you do advance, all of your players are going to have played in the dying minutes of a one-goal game in the Western Conference Final.  That's an experience that the only way to get it is to get it.
CODY EAKIN: Yeah, I think everyone wants to be in those minutes.  I think we're confident with everyone in those minutes playing those hard minutes, doing the right things, the dirty things, the hard things that make a team successful.
I think they could say the same thing on their lineup.  They got a deep team that guys play hard minutes.  It's about confidence, about getting the job done every shift you go out.  It's going to start with shift number one tomorrow.
Q. Was there a part earlier in the year when you looked around the locker room and thought, Maybe after a certain win, then a point later in the year when you go, Holy geez?
CODY EAKIN: I mean, thinking back on it, the first game in Dallas, Hey, well, these guys are going to be good, got a whole ton of firepower.  It was a hard game, one of the hardest first games I've ever played.  But just the pace of play, the caliber of that team.  We managed to get a win.  That's a good start for us.
Going forward, obviously the home record, played a lot of games on the road.  Going on the road, proving we can win on the road.  Then the next step was the second half which always tightens up.
Q. All-Star break, Christmas?
CODY EAKIN: We just kept doing it.  It wasn't like we were sitting back and looking at it.  We just kept doing it.  Kept playing hard, having fun.  Guys would step up at different times.  It's not like it was just one play and we're like, Okay, now we're considered a good team.
You know, at the start of the season we never thought we were going to be a bad team.  I don't know if we ever expected we'd be where we are now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT