U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2014
Byron Meth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Tell me about your emotions right now, going 21 holes in a match like that.  BYRON METH: I'm happy.  Even though I lost, it's still a great week on the golf course.  It's a step in the right direction, and I'll move forward from it.   Q.  Obviously he missed a short putt on 18.  What were you thinking when he was over that putt?  BYRON METH: I was about ready to take my hat off.  Decided to keep it on just in case he didn't miss, I didn't want to be that guy with the hat off and then having to put it back on and walk to the next tee. I was expecting him to make it.  It was four, four and a half feet.  But it snuck by the edge and I had another opportunity.  We squared the first two holes and then last par putt lipped-out, but that's golf.   Q.  You talked about, you're pleased with your week.  Are you pleased with the way you played today?  BYRON METH: I didn't have my best today but I gave it everything I had.  So learned from it, tried to tighten up a few things before April.   Q.  Tying this all up, even though it's different championships, to win a USGA Championship and then to go pretty far in this Amateur, what does that mean to you and your golf career?  BYRON METH: It means a lot.  I've kind of been an underrated player up until now.  Even my last big win was in April at conference and I won by seven.  That was a big win, but it's nothing compared to one of these championships.  These are the majors for amateurs, and it was an honor and a pleasure to win the last APL and it was fun to give it a run here.   Q.  Most amateurs know about Nathan Smith and his record.  What was that like playing against him today?  BYRON METH: Oh, it was a bunch of fun.  I kind of picked his brain a little about Augusta.  He told me to steal a few robes from the Crow's Nest when I stay there in the practice rounds.  It was a good time.  He's a great guy and a class act, and I wish him the best.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT