U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2014
Byron Meth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BYRON METH: I got off to a really good start.  I hit three shots within five feet on the first six holes, so was 3-under through whatever that hole was on the back, the dogleg left with the water, 13 or 14. Then made a smart bogey on the following hole.  Hit it way right and then hit it in the bunker.  I had like a 40-yard bunker shot over another bunker and hit to the middle of green and made bogey there, just playing smart.  That was the dogleg left, right after the one in the water, 14 or 15. Then made a silly bogey on 17.  So I was 1-under through eight.  I made a bunch of pars.  Made a really good par save on 4 or 5, the dogleg left before the dogleg right.  Hit it way over the green in the back bunker and got up-and-down, which really kept momentum.  I was 1-under for the round and 2-under for the tournament at the point, if we made bogey there, I was even with the tournament which is flirting with the cut, so to save that was pretty big -- or I was 1-under. So saving that was pretty big, and then go on to make a 50-ish footer on the next hole for birdie.  So then that got me to two for the day and three for the tournament.  Then just took conservative lines coming down the stretch and made sure I made pars and got in the clubhouse.Q. Your coach, who is your caddie, talked about your distance control today.  He said you hit 16 greens.  Did you view it the same way, the way you were playing today?BYRON METH: Yeah, just very smart lines and leaving myself a lot of putts straight up the gut.  And if they fall in, great.  And if not, the only purpose of the stroke play is to get into match play.Q. So you purposely were playing a more conservative way around?BYRON METH: Yeah, pretty much risk free.  Took a couple risks early, just because I had really good numbers.  Really good numbers and felt comfortable over the shots and I went at a couple pins and it paid off early.  Once I was a few more under for the tournament, I just took safe lines, and if they fell in, great, and if not, par and move on.Q. Is today's approach something you've learned about playing in USGA events before?BYRON METH: Definitely.  So the first USGA event I played in was the Pub Links, and I was still in junior golf mode even though I just finished my freshman year of college and wildly got my way around the golf course and snuck in the Match Play but it wasn't comfortable by any means. My game is a lot tighter now which is laws me to have pretty good course management and just kind of hit some shots and roll a few putts.Q. You have a National Championship under your belt; so what was your expectation coming here?BYRON METH: Even though I just had one Pub Links a couple weeks ago, it's a completely different event, so I just prepared the same way.  Winning a couple weeks ago was just a confirmation that we're doing everything right.  So I just kept plugging along and stick to the process and execute the shots as best as I can.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT