BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 16, 2005
Kareen Qually
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KAREEN QUALLY:  Yes, it was a bunch of things.  It was    obviously the crowd.  I've never played in front of that many people before.  And even just getting up on the first tee, they announced my name and I hadn't done anything,  and there was this big roar (laughter).  So that was    you know, that was a little bit difficult.  And just crowd control and that.

But Lorie made it so easy to play with her.  She was just the epitomy of class.  And that helped me calm down.
Q.  Was she (indiscernible) you?
KAREEN QUALLY:  Yeah.  She was just encouraging out there and just really warm with good shots when I'd hit a good shot and, you know, keep it going.  And it was just    it was really enjoyable to play with her.
Q.  What did that for you just playing with Lorie Kane (indiscernible) and get you thinking that maybe one day I can get the gallery to follow me like this?
KAREEN QUALLY:  Yeah.  Absolutely.  I think, you know, I still need probably about an hour to settle down and soak it all in (laughter) to know exactly what I think about everything.

But, yeah, it was just an incredible experience.  And I'm just thankful that we as Canadians get the chance to come out and play an event like this.  It's not often that girls who are working their way up get to do that.
Q.  Were there any problems with nerves, where you really felt nervous?
KAREEN QUALLY:  Yeah.  How long do you have?  (Laughter.)  Yeah.  Pretty much, you know    and what else I found difficult, I guess, was not hitting a good shot.  And I'm used to trying to being kind of a steady Eddie, you know, I don't let my emotions get the best of me.

But you hear these roars for Lorie or for a good shot of mine, and then the silence when you don't hit a good one is just deafening.  And so it kind of gets you down a little more than I normally would be.  So I think that was a little bit difficult to try and figure out how to get back into my game after I missed a shot.
Q.  What was your reaction when you found you'd be playing with her today?  Was it anticipation or almost dread?    Or both?
KAREEN QUALLY:  Uh, uh huh.  (Laughter.)  All of the above.  No.  You know what?  People would pay thousands and thousands of dollars to have this experience.  I will get paid for it a little, maybe.  But, yeah.  But, yeah, it was an incredible experience.  And I'm going to take away so much from it that I couldn't help but be thrilled yesterday to hear that that was the case.
Q.  How many Opens have you been in?
KAREEN QUALLY:  This is my third.
Q.  How many other pro (indiscernible)?
KAREEN QUALLY:  Yes.  Correct.
Q.  And you're how old?
KAREEN QUALLY:  I'm 30.  Almost too old to be asked (laughter).


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT