U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2008
Ji Young Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
RAND JERRIS: We're now joined by Ji Young Oh. In with a  
round of 6-under par, 67 in the first round this morning. Maybe  
start us off with some, just some comments about your round. How  
exciting it is for you to open with such a good round. 
 JI YOUNG OH: Yeah, today I was very exciting. Today I'm playing very well. So just fun and happy too and a little bit tired too. Yeah. That's fine.
  
RAND JERRIS: When you were first took up the game and were  
starting to become a better player, did you ever dream of being the  
leader at the United States Open.
 JI YOUNG OH: Yeah. Of course, obviously to answer your question, of course. And after turning professional I've always dreamed to win and be the leader at the U.S. Open all the time.
  
RAND JERRIS: There will be a number of people turning on their  
televisions or opening the newspaper tomorrow morning that may not  
have heard of you. Can you tell us about yourself? When  
did you start to play the game, when did you come to this country to  
play.
 JI YOUNG OH: I came here maybe two years ago. And this is going to be a hard question.
  
(Laughter.)
 I  
started at 12 years old playing golf. Obviously my name is Ji  
Young Oh, so we'll start with that. I always loved watching  
Tiger and Lorena, watching the U.S. Women's Open as well as the Men's  
Open. 
  
After turning professional two years ago I always wanted to be the  
best and I love hitting my drivers and short irons. And for that  
I think this golf course suits my game pretty well. So I'm  
pretty confident this week. 
 
  
Q. How surprised were you that -- did the course play easier  
than you thought it would? Was it softer or people were talking  
that it might be even par or something, but to shoot that low in the  
first round, were you surprised?
 JI YOUNG OH: Yeah, the course is a little bit hard because the greens are hard and there's a lot of break. But my favorite club is driver and short irons. So today I hit a lot of the greens and I hit the fairways too. So it was more easier today for me. Today 6-under is, yeah, that's a good score today.
 
  
Q. You mentioned the greens are difficult. With your short  
irons were you hitting it close today or did you make some long putts? 

 JI YOUNG OH: Today I made just short putts. I made 7 birdies today and almost the shortest was just one feet and the longest was maybe 12 feet. So yeah, little short putts for birdie today.
  
RAND JERRIS: You hit a number of shots today one or two feet  
from the hole.
  
JI YOUNG OH: Yeah. 
  
RAND JERRIS: Is your short irons the strongest part of your game  
usually? 
 JI YOUNG OH: Yeah, I like short irons, the 9-iron, the wedge. So, yeah, today it's more easy and the greens were in good condition too, so, yes.
 
  
Q. How did you play 9? Michelle Wie had a nine on No. 9 I  
was curious how you played No. 9. 
  
JI YOUNG OH: No. 9? I made birdie. And I hit the  
driver and 180 to the pin and I hit the hybrid. Then it was six  
feet for birdie. 
 
  
Q. You say the longest birdie was 12 feet?
  
JI YOUNG OH: No, it's 12 feet. No. 16. Or 17.  
Yeah. 
  
RAND JERRIS: Did you miss any short birdie putts? Could  
your score have been lower.
  
JI YOUNG OH: No, no miss today. I made everything.  
Yeah. 
 
  
Q. Why do you think you played so well today?
 JI YOUNG OH: Because not too long this course. And I hit a lot of greens and I hit a lot of fairways. So it was more easier for me today. So I played really well.
 
  
Q. You know this is the longest course in U.S. Women's Open  
history?
 JI YOUNG OH: Oh, really? I think not. I think it's last year is pretty longer it played longer, I feel. Yeah. So I don't know.
 
  
Q. Did you feel like you struggled at all today or on any hole  
today?
 JI YOUNG OH: Today, no. I made bogey at number 4. The par-3. Yeah. I thought that was a little difficult. Yeah, it was difficult.
  
RAND JERRIS: What will you do this evening to prepare for  
tomorrow? Go home, watch a movie, relax.
 JI YOUNG OH: I'm going to do lunch and then relax in the hotel and maybe watch the TV and just relax. Yeah. Not thinking about the golf.
  
(Laughter.) 
  
Yeah. 
 
  
Q. Do you think that it will put more pressure on you tomorrow  
or do you just not think about that, that you're, right now you're  
doing so well?
 JI YOUNG OH: I hope just play just enjoy it and just have fun and I hope I do that. Yeah.
 
  
Q. How many holes did you hit the driver? Did you hit  
driver on every hole?
 JI YOUNG OH: No, not every hole. Maybe, I hit the driver and 3-wood, sometimes 5-wood, yeah. Sometimes 7-wood too.
 
  
Q. How does it feel -- I know it's the first day, but you're six  
strokes ahead of Lorena, just describe what it's like to be six  
strokes ahead of the No. 1 player in the world. I think she shot  
even par, so. 
 JI YOUNG OH: I don't know. I don't know. Because we have three more days. So today I'm just happy and it was just fun today. I'm just happy.
  
RAND JERRIS: Well thank you for your time congratulations on  
your good play and we wish you luck tomorrow. 
  
JI YOUNG OH: Thank you. 
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT