SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
May 1, 2008
Ji Young Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Hee Young Park, thank for coming in today. Great round. You're 1-under par and you're the leader right now. Can you just talk about how you played today.   
 JI YOUNG OH: Today wind is very strong and very hard today. But I start 2-over the 9th hole, and after I three birdie and I finished 1-under. Not bad. It feels not bad.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Talk about the weather today. The wind was pretty strong out there.  
 JI YOUNG OH: Uh-huh, pretty much storm right outside.   
 (From translation) The wind was very strong, but I think I was able to use the wind a little bit better and more effectively, and thus wasn't affected as much as I expected.  
  
  Q. If this holds up, have you been a first-round leader on tour yet? Is this the first time?  
 JI YOUNG OH: Second time.   
  
  Q. What was the other time?   
 JI YOUNG OH: Mexico. It was Corona, master championship.  
  
  Q. This year?  
 JI YOUNG OH: Yes, MasterCard.  
  
  Q. Minus one, considering the conditions, is that a heck of a score?   
 JI YOUNG OH: I don't know because -- yeah. It's better, 1-under.  
  
  Q. Can you remember a tournament where you had more winds than this?   
 JI YOUNG OH: (From translation.) No. This is probably the strongest that I've faced.  
  
  Q. Your rookie year you missed some cuts early, but really came on at the Safeway. Was the Safeway a big turning point for you?   
 JI YOUNG OH: (From translation) I'm not doing anything else from that point on. I just practice as much as I can, whether it was for before or after Safeway. All I'm thinking is practice and practice.  
  
  Q. What's been good for you this year and what's been bad for you this year?  
 JI YOUNG OH: (From translation.) Compared to last year, my driving distance has gone much further than it was it last year.   
 As far as accuracy is concerned, I'm just as consistent this year as I was last year. The big impact this year would be the driving distance.  
  
  Q. When you were hitting into the wind, was it a two, three-club difference? How much of a difference did it make when you were hitting into the wind?   
 JI YOUNG OH: Two or three more club.  
  
  Q. So that changes the golf course entirely, doesn't it? Because of the wind being so strong, it changes how you play this course?   
 JI YOUNG OH: (From translation.) Overall, I don't feel like the wind has really affected my game. In some occasions it actually helped me. Of course, in some other occasions it didn't. I had to use the clubs that -- couple clubs over what I would usually use.   
 Overall, like I said, it didn't really affect me as much as I thought coming in.   
  
  Q. Does patience make a difference on a day like today? You said you started off not great but you hung in there. Is that the key to having a good round in this kind of weather, being patient?   
 JI YOUNG OH: (From translation.) Absolutely. Coming into this round today I felt good overall, but in the beginning, the first nine holes I wasn't sinking too many birdies.   
 I waited and waited and was being patient rather than being upset with myself. I did stay patient and it did payoff.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT