LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 2, 2009
Ji Young Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Ji Young, hello. Welcome back to the State Farm Classic. You're the defending champion. You won already this year at Sybase. If you would, just talk about how it feels to be back here. 
 JI YOUNG OH: Now I feel really, really good right now. I came here the Sunday, and then I practiced on the yesterday, then I played really good. But I felt really different because the course is a little bit longer, more than last year. 
 I'm a little bit nervous a little bit right now because last year I wasn't defending champion, so little bit nervous. I think this year I think my play, really focused, and I feel really good right now. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions. 

 Q. When you won a couple weeks ago, I think you made a comment, you talked about how that felt compared to winning here last year. Seemed like you said last year was maybe a little bit of a surprise, a little unexpected. Winning this year, did you go out the last round thinking you were going to win or you had a very good chance to win, compared to what it was like last year here? 
 JI YOUNG OH: Question is a little bit long (laughter). 
 Yes, last year I win this tournament, I never thinking about just win. I played, finished the play, and I win. This year, I win the Sybase Classic. It was because first round, I had first time hole-in-one, and shot eagle. So I was felt really, really good. 
 I think this tournament I win, the trophy. So, yeah, was little bit different, yes. 

 Q. Since you won this event last year, now you're back, do you think you can win it again? 
 JI YOUNG OH: I hope, but... I hope. I'm just thinking about my focus, my own game. I'm just thinking of my own game. 
 So I hope I win this year, too. Yeah, I play well (laughter). 

 Q. Last year it was a lot drier. The course maybe was a little bit harder. Now it's a lot greener and softer. Is that more for your game, better for you, or... 
 JI YOUNG OH: Yes, I say is different. Last year pretty much dry out there. I just hit the driver, almost 290, 280 easy. I hit a driver and almost a wedge. So is different. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Different conditions? 
 JI YOUNG OH: Yeah, conditions. 
 But this year, really good out there, a little bit soft. The greens a little bit soft. So I think more different conditions this year. 

 Q. You may have said earlier some of the holes are playing longer. I know No. 13, the par 5, and No. 15, the dogleg left. 
 JI YOUNG OH: Yeah, par 4. 

 Q. No. 15, do you think that's going to play a lot differently since it's farther back?
 JI YOUNG OH: It's a lot different. Almost 40 yard back the tee. Last year I hit just over the tree, yeah, short-iron, just 9-iron or 8-iron. This year is 40 yards move the tee box. Is different angle, almost longer. 
 Yesterday I hit the driver and 5-iron. It's harder, of course, to make it. 

 Q. You can't cut the corner. 
 JI YOUNG OH: Yes, different angle. It's harder. 

 Q. You and Yani were here in the playoff last year. You and her have won the last two tournaments coming into this. Other than the playoff last year, have you played with her a lot? In other words, have you gotten to know Yani very well these last couple years?
 JI YOUNG OH: Yeah, should he is good player. She hit the long driver. She's good the short game. So she's really good, the player. She win the Corning. Maybe she's good player, yes, top. 

 Q. The field here this year, the players who are here this year, it's a very good field, the top money winners. Does that make it more exciting? Some people have said it's almost like a major with all the good players being here, the LPGA next week. Does that make it more exciting or a challenge when you know a lot of the top-10 people are here? 
 JI YOUNG OH: Long question (laughter). 
 Yeah, this tournament different, the major, the next three we have, the McDonald's, the championship. So a lot of good player coming here this week. 

 Q. Do you think since there's so many good players here this week, does that give you extra motivation to play extra well?
 JI YOUNG OH: I was play the Sybase Classic, they come to lot of good players, too. There was Choi and Creamer. Almost 35 good players coming. I think it's not much different, this tournament. I play just my focus and just my thinking about my game, yeah. 

 Q. Since you won Sybase this year already, coming into this week, does that give you more confidence? 
 JI YOUNG OH: Yes, I have more confidence. I have a lot of confidence this week, I feel. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Thank you. 
 JI YOUNG OH: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT