LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 19, 2009
Ji Young Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Ji Young, thanks for coming in. Congratulations on winning last week at the Sybase Classic.   
 If you would, just tell us how the win felt and how much you're looking forward to playing this week in Corning.  
 JI YOUNG OH: Here is really good condition at the course, and then my feeling is really good again. Last week I felt really, really good, so think it's this week's really good, too.   
 And then I hope really good score, and then I want to win again.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions?   
  
  Q. Now, in some tournaments, when a player wins, sometimes they withdraw - and I don't know if it's to celebrate the win - but coming off a win, how do you feel about your game, and how do you feel about this course?   
 JI YOUNG OH: This course a little bit short, you know. The par-5s we can -- a lot of chance at birdie because really short.   
 And then the par-3s really good. Everything really good, so I think I have the really chance on every hole.   
  
  Q. I'm told that you have a local caddie from this area.   
 JI YOUNG OH: Local caddie, yeah, from here, the Corning.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Woody.  
  
  Q. How did you and Woody get together?  
 JI YOUNG OH: He's really good and he's really nice. (Through translation) My manager actually introduced me to Woody. That's how we met. He has a great personality, Woody does, so we work really well together.  
  
  Q. How long ago?  
 JI YOUNG OH: Just two weeks, and then we start this week.  
  
  Q. Does he have a lot of insight on this course?   
 JI YOUNG OH: Yeah, he does. He spends a lot of times working here, so he's really good.   
  
  Q. Just wondering, obviously South Korean players have had a lot of success here. Seems like looking at your results, maybe you got a little accustomed to the course last year and played pretty well here. Any reason for players from your country doing so well in Corning?   
 JI YOUNG OH: I don't know, because I think lot of players, South Korea, on LPGA Tour. We are almost 49 players from Korean.   
 So I think South Koreans really strong in the mind, I think, and a lot of practice. And then I think, yeah, I think everyone is just strong mind and a lot of practice.   
 (Through translation.) I think this course is a lot similar to the ones we play back in Korea, so that might come in as factor for the Koreans to play well in this tournament.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else? Ji Young, thank you so much.   
 JI YOUNG OH: Yeah, thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT