SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 17, 2009
Ji Young Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Birdie on 3? 
 JI YOUNG OH: Yes, 5-iron, 170, nine feet and I made birdie.
 No. 5, my second shot on the green, is 20 yards and I 2-putted and made a birdie. 
 No. 8, I made a bogey, I hit the 145 shot and 7-iron and 3-putt.
 7, 125 yards and 9-iron and three feet and one putt and made birdie. 
 10, I hit 175 shot and I used the hybrid utility. I missed it right and then 20 yards, chipped in, and 58 and then just two putts, maybe 20 feet. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Congratulations on winning the Sybase Classic, your second win on Tour, you won the State Farm Classic last year. If you would, talk about today and how you played. 
 JI YOUNG OH: Today, not too easy for me, because behind Suzann Pettersen and Brittany, and they are really, really good players. So I was really nervous but after a few holes, I became really, really calm and just thinking about my game and just good shots and I had a good putter, and good score and win. 

 Q. If you would, talk about the ninth hole where you saved par. How long was that putt from off the green?
 JI YOUNG OH: It was almost nine feet and I used the putt and just thinking about -- just my stroke and then just the line, it was in the hole, so it was a surprise for me it, was not easy.

 Q. You were playing with two very long players, as well, and you were always hitting first. How did you stay patient? You were very steady all day. How do you stay patient and concentrate on your own game when you are trailing them by 40, 50 yards? 
 JI YOUNG OH: They are long drivers, sometimes 300, but my driver is 240, sometimes 250. But it doesn't matter, because that is my style and I have a good iron shot and good wedge shots, so it doesn't matter, just thinking about myself and just stay my focus. 

 Q. What did you hit on 12? It looked like that shot never left the flag. What is your yardage there?
 JI YOUNG OH: It was 195 yards and I used a 7, and it was an easy shot because it was right at the hedger (ph) and front bunker and close to the pin. So it was not easy but it was a perfect shot. It was lucky but I hit a good shot, too. 

 Q. Do you think that was the pivotal hole? 
 JI YOUNG OH: I think No. 9, because I have a good par save, so good playing today. 

 Q. (Regarding great play by Koreans). 
 JI YOUNG OH: No, because we have good players, Se Ri Pak, and then last year Inbee Park, and a lot of players; we have good players. I think I am also a very good player. There are so many good players now -- (no mic).

 Q. Did you start playing golf because of Se Ri Pak like everybody else more than anybody else out here?
 JI YOUNG OH: Yes, because at start of '98, it was Se Ri Pak won the U.S. Open. I started that year. So, yes, she is a good player. And then, yes, I was also influenced by Se Ri's swing. That's not all of it: I was also interested in golf. My dad was a huge fan of golf and that also got me started. 

 Q. Just to follow-up on the Korean question: Many, many Koreans now, female Koreans are dominating the Tour. Can you talk a little bit about what your thoughts are about that? Is it work ethic? Do you manage anxiety better? Talk a little about that. 
 JI YOUNG OH: We are very younger and many years ago, we play in the tournament in Korea, the amateur, and then there is a very good player there, and then the players you see here around the LPGA Tour, they are sort of around my age. 
 We have sort of been in the competition mode growing up. We all played together and we all competed against one another on the amateur level, so as we were growing up, I think you are seeing more and more of those players succeeding here on the LPGA Tour and I think you'll see a lot more coming, as well. 

 Q. When did you start playing golf? 
 JI YOUNG OH: Ten years. 

 Q. How difficult of a decision was it for you and your family to come to the U.S., and is that a difficult decision for young Korean girls to come to the United States and up root their lives and live in Florida and study there? 
 JI YOUNG OH: Well, it really wasn't a difficult decision for me or my family. I know probably one of the most important things is food, but I like all kinds of food. So just in terms of just living here and environment to play golf, I think I'm actually more comfortable here in the U.S. than Korea. 

 Q. Why is that? Why are you more comfortable here? 
 JI YOUNG OH: Because the game of golf that I love so much, I can play freely, any time, anywhere, and whenever I get a chance. 

 Q. Your game, you hit it really straight off the tee, so if there were opportunities or odd chances for you to get in trouble, it was usually maybe around the green or you hit the ball in the bunkers. Your short game helped you out a lot this week and the last few days especially and you didn't have a lot of long par putts and you always got yourself in really good position. Can you talk about your short game and how much time you spend on that and do you think that's a strength in your game?
 JI YOUNG OH: My short game was really good this week, and then I was practice this week, a lot of practice on the chipping green and putting green, a lot of practice. 
 This was a lot different than other places I had been playing, so I needed to practice a lot more on the approach shots and putting, and that's where I put my focus and emphasis this week practicing. 

 Q. I don't know what the field was like at State Farm when you won last year but could not have been any stronger than this one. How do you feel about winning against such a strong field? 
 JI YOUNG OH: You know, at the State Farm, I really didn't expect to win the tournament. The opportunity kind of presented itself to me there at State Farm. But this tournament, I played with a lot of great players; from the first day when I made a hole-in-one, I knew that the trophy was waiting for me and I needed to do everything that I had in my power to win this tournament. I really wanted it badly, and there was no way I wasn't going to get it. 

 Q. Because you're not very long off the tee, and the wind was really strong today, did you feel like that gave you an advantage not being as long? Because the winds were so strong today and you are not very long off the tee, did you think that gave you an advantage? 
 JI YOUNG OH: Well, I don't know that it was a big advantage or disadvantage for anybody. It wasn't like the wind was blowing one way the whole time, same direction front to back. 
 My caddie and I, we strategized a lot today, using the wind to make some good shots and I think it just worked out well for me. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT