SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 16, 2009
Ji Young Oh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Birdie on 1?   
 JI YOUNG OH: 100 yards and I used a wedge to nine feet and one putt, made the birdie.   
 4, missed a drive off the right so I just got off, and made bogey. I hit the bunker shot 20 yards and four feet and then missed, 2-putts, so I made a bogey.   
 5, 75 yards, two feet and I made a birdie.  
 7, I used a 58 and seven feet and made a birdie.  
 No. 8, I used a 7-iron, 40 yards, and then ten feet and made the birdie.   
 12, I hit 5-iron, I missed the last, 20 yards and I used a 58 and then 11 feet and made a birdie, two putts.   
 14,52 and 105 yards and 15 yards and one putt.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: 12-under par, tied for the lead, going into the final round just talk about today and how did it go?   
 JI YOUNG OH: Today, good weather and good conditions, the golf course, and myself, felt really good, so everything went right. And good swing, good putt, so, yeah, I have a good score today, 3-under.   
  
  Q. Would you talk about what your approach will be trying to win with everybody around you and what it would mean to win this?   
 JI YOUNG OH: Tomorrow, just focus my own game and then I never think about my score and win, just my focus, my thinking about just my game and just my play and then just my own play, yeah.   
  
  Q. Does it give you confidence at all that no one has run away with this tournament yet?   
 JI YOUNG OH: Yes, we are still in the pack, so I feel good. That means I have a great chance to win tomorrow. So yeah, that makes me feel good, and I have a little bit more added confidence.   
  
  Q. When you started on the Tour, your driving was not very long, you were not driving long. Are you doing better now?   
 JI YOUNG OH: Really short, because Brittany and Suzann Pettersen are really good drivers, almost 300. I'm 240, 250.   
 Doesn't matter, because just my play, my style, I have my style of game, so doesn't matter.   
  
  Q. Noticed on your putter grip there's an ace of spades, a playing card; is that right? What's that all about?   
 JI YOUNG OH: Yes, that is the green one because my favorite color is green and then my grandmother's lucky color, so I have a lot of the green in the cover and then green and the marker. Yeah, so my favorite color.   
  
  Q. Do you play cards?   
 JI YOUNG OH: No, just color.   
  
  Q. Will you wear green tomorrow?   
 JI YOUNG OH: I hope so (laughter).  
 No, I'm not wearing green tomorrow. I'm planning on wearing a red shirt tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT