U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2016
Davis Riley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're really up on your golf history.  You probably didn't know the course record was 63 over here, did you?
DAVIS RILEY: I had no clue, but yeah, it feels pretty good.
Q. Do you have a guess as to who shot it?
DAVIS RILEY: No clue.  They just told me Matt Kuchar, so that's pretty cool to have my name around him.
Q. When did you know you had something special going?
DAVIS RILEY: You know, I felt really good going into today.  As crazy as it sounds, I felt like I hit it just as good yesterday, just had a couple mental errors on the South Course, but yeah, I just kept on staying with it, and I gave myself chances and had a few fall, and just tried to keep the pedal to the medal.
Q. Mental errors yesterday; what do you mean?
DAVIS RILEY: Just a few mistakes on the green.  You kind of pay the price a little bit more for missed putts out there because they're a little more undulated on the greens and stuff.  But yeah, just got a little bit used to the green speed and acclimated really well, so happy with today.
Q. How much did playing well at the Western last week help you come into here?
DAVIS RILEY: Yeah, for sure.  That's a match play format, too, so it was kind of nice to get like a warm-up going into this, get the feel of match play.  It's a different kind of golf.  This is a nice warm-up.
Q. Where would you rank this day in your golfing life even though it's been short so far?
DAVIS RILEY: Definitely in the top couple for sure.  I had a 58 at my home course that has to be up there, but yeah, definitely in the top two or three rounds I've played in a while.
Q. Didn't you go low in the post season one round this year?
DAVIS RILEY: Yeah, I shot 67 at regionals.  I had a couple good rounds in there.
Q. 58 on your home course; can you talk about that round a little bit?
DAVIS RILEY: Yeah, it was kind of the same thing.  Had a lot of inside 10 feet birdies, hitting a lot of fairways and greens and just making a lot of putts.
Q. What course was that?
DAVIS RILEY: Canebrake Country Club.
Q. Was that a par-70?
DAVIS RILEY: 71.
Q. Is that in Hattiesburg?
DAVIS RILEY: It is, yeah.
Q. Of the seven birdies, the top two you're most proud of today?
DAVIS RILEY: One that I'm proud of, what's the par-3, I think it's 13 over there by the water?  Yeah, me and my coach, we were really particular on the line.  The wind was hard out of the right, and I just said, I'm going to hit it 25 feet right of the flag and let the wind take it, and stopped it in there and landed a foot from the hole, and tap-in birdie.  That was one there.  The par-5 right before that was huge, too.  The wind was blowing pretty good there, and that was just a really gutsy shot, hit it to the left bunker, which is where I wanted to miss it, and had a good swing, got up-and-down from there.
Q. What did you hit on the second shot?
DAVIS RILEY: I hit 4-iron into the green.
Q. How far?
DAVIS RILEY: I had I think 218, 219 with a hard left pin off the left breeze.
Q. How about the up-and-down at 16 from the back bunker?
DAVIS RILEY: Yeah, that was pretty good, too.  We had kind of a weird lie in the fairway, really downslope, up green, so it was hard to judge where it was going to land on the green, and it came out pretty hot, and I was really glad to get that one up-and-down to keep the round going.
Q. Any sense of -- not panic but worry after yesterday's round?
DAVIS RILEY: Not really.  I mean, I guess you would think being kind of lingering with the cut, but I really hit it about the same, as weird as it sounds, like I said earlier.  I hit it really good, just kind of dumb mistakes, and that shows you what kind of getting your head straight will do for you.
Q. Obviously your USGA pedigree is pretty good.  Are you totally comfortable with this setting now?
DAVIS RILEY: Yeah, I like anything match play.  I love match play.  It's kind of weird, it just frees me up, and I just play my game as if I were hitting balls on the driving range, so yeah, the USGA puts on a great event; I love them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT