U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2016
Davis Riley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've gone deep in so many tight USGA match play events.  Do you think that helped you?  You were 3-up, he comes back, all square.  Does it help you not to get fazed having been there so many times?
DAVIS RILEY: Yeah, I've played a lot of match play and anything can happen.  You never have a match won, no matter how many up you are.  So I just told myself to stick to my routine and stick to what me and Coach were doing.  Got a little lucky there in the end, so just happy to move on.
Q. None of this matters now, you get a clean slate tomorrow; what's your mindset going into tomorrow?
DAVIS RILEY: Yeah, like you said, a win is a win no matter how it's done.  I'm just going to get some rest.  It was a long day today, especially with the delay, but yeah, just clean slate, like you said, tomorrow, so just refresh from today.
Q. How is it hard to reset after having a historic round here yesterday?  How do you reset yourself to start fresh?
DAVIS RILEY: Yeah, in the second round I played really well, and everybody was telling me good round, and it's kind of easy to dwell on that a little bit.  But the tournament just started, so I just tried to act like it was the first day of the tournament today and played well, kind of struggled after the delay, kind of got out of rhythm coming in, so thankfully it was good enough.
Q. What yardage did you have on the hole here?
DAVIS RILEY: I had 148 out of the bunker, and it was a really good shot.
Q. What did you hit, what club?
DAVIS RILEY: Pitching wedge.
Q. Pretty much the way you wanted to execute it?
DAVIS RILEY: Yeah, it was perfect.  Me and Coach said, right at it.  And I had the same putt this morning right there and played it just off the edge and it stayed out and it broke there.  I don't know how that happened, but thankfully it was good enough.
Q. Were you prepared to move on to the next hole?
DAVIS RILEY: Yeah, I was just trying to get my mindset, go over to the bag and start getting the driver almost.  But that's tough for Matthew; he's a great dude and a good player, so I wish the best for him and his golf.
Q. Do you think it helps playing a match like this right out of the gate, get one under your belt?
DAVIS RILEY: Yeah, I guess it kind of keeps you on your toes a little bit.  Yeah, start just fresh tomorrow and get going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT