QATAR LADIES OPEN
February 23, 2011
Shahar Peer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BARTOLI/S. Peer
  6-1, 6-0 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I saw the match, and it was difficult to see if Marion was very, very up or if you were not here.   
 SHAHAR PEER: I think this time I should give her the credit, because she just played really, really good. I think, like you said yesterday, I played her nine times and I never experienced this, you know, how good the quality she was playing.  
 So I tried to do everything, but, you know, today nothing would help me. You know, it happens sometimes, somebody playing very, very well, and she deserved to win today.  
  
  Q. You called your coach at 6-1, 5-Love. Did you believe still in yourself?  
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah. I mean, you know, it's really a strange maybe time to call, but like I said, I tried to do everything. I was trying to, every point I won, to pump myself.   
 You know, I thought maybe, maybe something can happen, because I'm the person that never gives up. Obviously it didn't. Like I said, today was her day. Yeah, that's it.   
  
  Q. Do you think she will win against Peng if she play like this?  
 SHAHAR PEER: I think if she plays like this, she win 99% of her matches in her life. But I don't think it's that easy to play like this every match.  
 I mean, like I said, if she would play like this every match, she would be No. 1 in the world, by far, because this was just really very, very good tennis. But, you know, you need to be able to be consistent in this kind of level.  
  
  Q. How would you sum up your experience in the Middle East over the past two weeks, Dubai and here?  
 SHAHAR PEER: It's very different actually playing here and in Dubai, but I enjoyed both times. Obviously in Dubai I played better. I played the quarterfinal and had good wins. Yesterday I had a great win against Svetlana who just played the final.  
 Overall, I tried to do these weeks some touring which I was not able to do in Dubai, so it was nice for me. I always like to come to those places. It's really nice places to be in.   
  
  Q. There was always some controversy about your trips to Dubai and Doha. Do you feel that you are more settled now, you're more comfortable playing in this region?  
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah, I think I was also comfortable -- I played my first time here in Doha in '08, and my first time in Dubai was last year, and both times I was feeling very comfortable.   
 I had great result last year in Dubai and also this year. Now obviously it's a different type of tournament, especially for me in Dubai, but, you know, I try to come those tournaments, it's big tournaments, especially Dubai is 2 million, and I like to participate there.   
  
  Q. Do you think the political debate has more or less settled and people are more comfortable here accepting you as a player?  
 SHAHAR PEER: I think it's because the first year I played in Dubai, last year, it was, you know, all over the news and everywhere and everywhere, especially when I keep winning and winning.  
 And last week when I was in Dubai, I also got to the quarterfinal, won three matches, but it wasn't as big thing as it was the year before.  
 I guess also I'm in a different position as a player. I'm now at 12, 11 in the world. Last week I was 11 when I came to play there. Last year I was top 30 only.  
 So, you know, also I'm playing well and people understand that this is a place where I need to be.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT