U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2007
Shahar Peer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  It's been a very good year for you.  This match in a way probably tells you, what more do I need to do now to get up one more level.  What do you think?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  I think I had good beginning of the year, but as you probably know I had very bad last two month.  I mean, I won maybe three matches losing to players I shouldn't lose.   
 I came to this tournament injured, so very strange.  I was -- I had my rib -- my joint between my ribs were inflamed and I didn't play for five days.  So actually it was kind of strange I was doing so well here.  I didn't know if I'm going to go on court the first match.   
 So like I'm really, really disappointed because I beat Anna this year.  I mean, she's a great player, but I don't know.  I mean, she's playing the same as few month ago and I'm playing the same.  We're the same players, but one day you win and one day you lose.   
 I think she -- that's why she belongs to the top 10.  I mean, she's playing really good tennis the last few months.  I think it's just a matter of time when I will get there, because I'm improving things and I think this tournament I was playing really good, like again my good tennis.   
 So I'm kind of happy of the way I was playing, but not happy that I lost today.   
  
  Q.  What did you feel after 4-2, when you lead 4-2?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah, I mean, I won only one game afterwards, but there was really tough games.  At 4-2 I lost and 4-3 I didn't play a good game, but at 4-All I had opportunities which was really close.   
 At 5-4 again I didn't play a good game and she controlled the match after even though I was breaking her.  Like I said, I'm disappointed I lost, but she was playing good today.   
  
  Q.  What makes her so tough?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  I don't know.  I think I'm also a tough player.  I don't know what to tell you.  She's a good player.  She moves well and she put a lot of balls in the court.  Like I said, one day you win and one day you lose.   
 I just beat her in Indian Wells a few months ago so it's not that huge different.  She's a good player like I was saying, but tennis is every day is a new day.   
  
  Q.  What makes her a good player?  Is it her ability to move the ball around the court?  She doesn't seem overpowering.   
 SHAHAR PEER:  I don't know.  I'm not a coach.  I'm playing on the court and, like I said, she's a good player.  You can ask her what she's doing good.  I'm not the person to ask me what is good and what is bad in her tennis.   
  
  Q.  How are you feeling physically right now?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah, very good actually.  I still have pain in the injury I was having.  It's already three weeks or so, so I think I have to rest a little bit because it's not great yet.   
 But I'm really moving great on the court.  I'm moving good and I'm really feeling good.  I need to improve, of course, but as everybody needs to.   
  
  Q.  No one questions your quickness around the court or your fighting spirit.  Those are the two most the important things in your game.  But are the groundstrokes top 10 quality right now?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  I don't know what to tell you.  I'm not a top 10 player.  Whenever I beat a top 10 player I guess the quality of my shots will be top 10.  Like I said, I'm working hard.  It's just a matter of time if I will make it or not, whenever I'm going make it.   
 I really think I can do it, but I don't want to put any time for it or anything.  I just want to enjoy playing on the tour like I'm doing now.   
  
  Q.  When you go home, you're leaving back to go to Israel from here, will you take time off?  Will you have to serve back in the Army immediately?  Do you get a little bit of rest from this?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  When I'm here I'm resting from the Army so, no.  Because really the only time I can serve the Army is when I'm home so I will have to go.   
  
  Q.  Will you go home tomorrow and then be back?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  I don't know.  We haven't spoken about it yet.  I'll see what's the plans.   
  
  Q.  Do you have to the full two years like women in Israel?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  Of course it'll take you much longer than two years.   
 SHAHAR PEER:  No, because they have a special program for athletes.  They let you travel.   
  
  Q.  So they count this time?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah.  I'm going to finish in this October.   
  
  Q.  Are you still a corporal?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah.  I think -- I didn't get yet the next because I wasn't in Israel to get it.   
  
  Q.  Two stripes?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Not yet.   
  
  Q.  One stripe?  No stripes?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  No.  I'm supposed to get but I didn't get.   
  
  Q.  So when you get back will you get a stripe?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah.  I think before I finish the Army I'm supposed get.  I don't really know.   
  
  Q.  Could you be a general someday?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah, right.   
  
  Q.  When you get home and you have time to really think about this, can you look back and say, Wow, I had a tremendous run here?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah.  But I was just talking with my coach and we were talking about the match.  I was pissed and everything and I was crying.  He said, But, really, look about the positive thing.  I mean, you had the worst two month in your life, in your career, which is not long one.   
 But you played so bad and you come to a Grand Slam and you make the quarterfinal.  Of course you could win and you had a good opportunity, but I have to look at the positive time and to take those things.  That's what going to help to my career.   
  
  Q.  Israel is a small country with a lot of media.  When you go home you're somewhat of a very, very well-know figure now, how much demand will there be on your time from magazines and TV and radio?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  They ask for a lot, but, I'm still a person who wants to live my life.  I'm trying to give as much as I can, because every time I come it's for ten days or two weeks or so.   
 So I'm trying to give as much as I can to the media in Israel, and whatever I can I'm doing.   
  
  Q.  Do you wear a uniform when you report back?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  When I go to the Army, yes, of course.   
  
  Q.  And do you have fall-in or anything like that?  Do you answer roll call in the morning?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah, when I go there.  Actually last time I had the press they were asking me the same question.  When I go there they give me different jobs much.  Whatever they have like on the certain day to ask me to do I'm doing.   
  
  Q.  And you have a weapon that you --   
 SHAHAR PEER:  No, not anymore.  Only in the basic training I had.   
  
  Q.  But you would get a weapon one day?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  No.  I'm not doing the job which is -- I should carry the weapon with me.   
  
  Q.  You're more clerical, is that it?  Like a secretary?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah, yeah, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Do you enjoy the balance of the life as a tour player and then back home in and the ability to serve your country in the military?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah.  I mean, it's only two years balance actually.  I'm about to finish it pretty soon.  But everybody in Israel is doing it, so for you guys it looks a little bit strange but for me it's like if I wouldn't do it it will be very strange.   
 You can escape the Army with few kind of ways, but from the beginning when you're like me I told my family I want to do it because my friends are doing it.   
 Whenever they come back on Friday and Saturday I have something to talk with them there about.  It's not that I only do the tennis, I do also what they are doing.  And I think for me it was really important to give as much as I can to the country because I get so much support.   
 It's not that it hurts my career, so I was really happy to go to the Army.   
  
  Q.  Are you a better person for serving in the military?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  I don't know.  I have no idea.  I mean, it gives -- I mean, the basic training gave me a lot, like different perspective of what they do there.  But the normal life it's just -- I just go there a few hours a day.   
  
  Q.  Have you calculated what you would have to do to get to Madrid, to the Championship?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  No.   
  
  Q.  It's going to be very difficult?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  I have no idea.  I don't even know what my ranking will be, if I drop or go up.  I don't know what I'm going to be.  I guess I will have to win the next four tournaments maybe if I want to be in Madrid.  I haven't thought about it yet.   
  
  Q.  Do you live in a barracks or can you live on your own?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  In a what?  No, I live in my home with my parents.  There is -- it's different jobs.  Some people do live like -- not live, but are there for three weeks, four weeks, two weeks, one week.  It depends what you're doing.   
  
  Q.  Was there any part of basic training that you enjoyed?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah.  I mean, it was three years ago.  But, yeah, like I said, we were staying 17 girls in a tent and it was a lot of like really different -- I was a normal person.   
 We learn how to shoot like you guys know probably.  I guess that was the best part because it was a lot of fun.   
  
  Q.  There are a great number of Jewish people in this city.  Have you had some experiences here in the last eight, nine days of people coming up to you and saying maybe, I knew your parents when or some odd thing like that?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  No, because I'm not going around here like on the center.  But like also I had so much support here and I really, really enjoyed it.  The crowd was unbelievable for me.  I really like every time to come back here to New York because I get so much support here.   
  
  Q.  You have now equaled Amos Mansdorf 's high ranking.  How well do you know him?  Has he done anything for you?   
 SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah, I know Amos, and when I was working with Eddie, my coach before, he was practicing with him a few times.  He came and helped me a little bit and gave me some tips.  So I got something from him.  He's a great guy and was a great player.  So he did help me a little bit.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT