DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 16, 2011
Shahar Peer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. PEER/A. Dulgheru
  6-4, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. She's obviously a really good clay courter. She is very consistent. How were you able to get on top of her, especially in the first set when it was so tight?   
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah, actually I played her two weeks ago in Israel for the Fed Cup. I think I played much better, especially for the first set last time.  
 But I knew exactly how she's playing. I think if I would a take chances it could be like maybe 6-2, 6-1, because I had so many chances in the first set at 5-2 and 5-3. And then in the second set, you know every game I had my game points and break points .  
 But like you said, she's very consistent and she's always there. I tried to be aggressive as much as I could.   
  
  Q. And were you feeling a bit freer today? I know you felt a little bit yesterday that you were pushing the ball.   
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah, I think it was the opposite today. I started very good today and then was going down. Yesterday I started very bad and was much freer in the second set.   
 So today overall was much better than yesterday of the feeling. But still not where I want to be.  
  
  Q. And you play Wickmayer or Li Na next. You played Li Na last year.   
 SHAHAR PEER: And also Wickmayer actually.  
  
  Q. Oh, well there you go. So how are you feeling about the next match?  
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah, I mean, it's gonna be both. Whoever is going to win is going to be a tough match. Obviously Li Na is maybe playing her best tennis now. She had a great two weeks in Melbourne.  
 Wickmayer, she won a good match yesterday and she's a good player, so I'm sure it's going to be a tough match for both of them.   
 I will try to give my best tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You're playing doubles as well here, so tomorrow you'll have singles and doubles. How do you think that will affect you physically?  
 SHAHAR PEER: No, I feel good. I'm feeling very well physically and I'm moving well. You know, I'm feeling good. You know, I try to give my best in every match I'm going to play.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT