NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 27, 2005
Shahar Peer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 

Q.  Did you give Serena more of a battle than you thought you would?
 
SHAHAR PEER:  If I gave her what? 
 

Q.  Did you give her a harder time than even you thought you would?
 
SHAHAR PEER:  I didn't really think if I would give her or not, but I realize when we were playing I gave her hard time and she was running a lot and missing and trying to go for too much, or she was like very happy when she won some points. 
 

Q.  Some people would think, "Oh, she's 17, she must have been happy to have this experience," but you seemed very disappointed when you lost.  You didn't stop for autographs or anything.  Did you think you could have beaten her?
 
SHAHAR PEER:  I wasn't really disappointed, but I thought I can beat her.  I was just -- actually, I was happy the way I played and I was fighting.  It's not that I didn't sign because I was mad or something or...  Just I was walking out the court.  But nothing special. 
 

Q.  So next time you play a player of that caliber, you think you'll be a different player than you were today at the beginning?
 
SHAHAR PEER:  I think, yeah.  Because, okay, it's the first time I'm playing on this big court, a lot of crowd.  So I guess I would be less -- I will be also excited, but less, and I will be more concentrate from the beginning and will take the first chances than only after 5-Love. I think it will be different.  Maybe will take me one or two more matches against top players, but in the end it will be good. 
 

Q.  Can I ask you, I hope I didn't ask a question that was already asked, I came in late, when did you start tennis?
 
SHAHAR PEER:  When I was six and a half. 
 
Q.  And this obviously is your first big tournament.  I don't know if you know this, but it was televised.
 
SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  Of course so many people saw you today, and it's not an insult of course, but they never heard about you.  When I tried to get information from you, no one could tell me how tall you are, for example, not that it's so important.
 
SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah, yeah. 
 

Q.  How did it feel for you?  You went from a very small tournament to suddenly the fifth largest tournament in the world, playing on Stadium Court, and I think you have, in my opinion, very good support.  People like underdogs.  I guess despite the fact you lost, you must feel good about coming to Miami?
 
SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah, first I was coming from qualifying also, so I won already four matches, and four tough matches.  Two of the players I lost before, also, so it was also good tournament and a good experience in this round today because I never played in such a huge center court.  And a lot of people, they were supporting me a lot. I think it's good experience for the next few years, or for the next tournament or whatever. 
 

Q.  What standing does tennis have in Israel?  I know basketball is very big.
 
SHAHAR PEER:  And soccer. 
 

Q.  And what standing does tennis have in Israel?
 
SHAHAR PEER:  Now it's coming up a little bit more because we have some doubles player who is one of the top players; they won also today.  There is Smashnova and Tzipora.  There is few players now. So I think it will become bigger support and more support from Israel, and people will know a little bit better if we will do good results. But for now it's not one of the popular sports. 
 

Q.  What are your plans now?  You're going to Europe for the season?  You want to go to -- I guess you still have to qualify again?  You made a lot of points here.
 
SHAHAR PEER:  Yeah, I'm going to play next week in Amelia Island, and I got wildcard for the main draw.  And then the week after I play Charleston, I play quallies.  So I have these two tournaments and then I have Fed Cup and then I go to Europe. 
 

Q.  Will you try to play all the major tournaments in Europe?
 
SHAHAR PEER:  No.  I'm going to go to Morocco and then if I will be in main draw French Open, I am going to play in Turkey.  If not, I am going to play quallies. 
 

Q.  Berlin?
 
SHAHAR PEER:  No, no, I'm not going. 
 

Q.  What did Serena tell you at the net?
 
SHAHAR PEER:  Oh, she just said, "Well done," and, "Good match."  That's it. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT