WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2008
Shahar Peer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  V. AZARENKA/S. PEER  
D. Safina/A. Szavay  
7-5, 6-4  
   
  Q. Congratulations. That's twice you've beaten Safina. Does that make you feel better now having beaten her and winning now after the last match that you lost your singles?  
 SHAHAR PEER: I'm happy I won, it's not that I'm sad I beat her two times, but it's not the issue here that I beat her two times. I mean, of course I'm happy after I lost the singles, and at least I finished the day with a smile. But it's nothing to do with Dinara.  
  
  Q. I was speaking with your opponent, and she said that she'd been watching your match with Safina and she saw the long rallies and she figured you might be tired today. Is that true? It was a long match.   
 SHAHAR PEER: I mean, I was tired yesterday and I was feeling not good energy in the morning. But as the match came that I was supposed to go and play on court, I was okay. At least inside me I was feeling, you know -- because it's fourth round, I've never been in the fourth round in Wimbledon, and I want to do good.   
 But she was playing good, and I haven't played -- I didn't play as good, and she was controlling the match the whole time.  
  
  Q. Did you have any particular tactics? I saw you hitting to her backhand a lot, but --  
 SHAHAR PEER: But anyway I won only three games, so it's not really a matter of the tactic, no tactic. She was just controlling the whole time the match, and I guess she deserved to win this time.  
  
  Q. But you won the first game of the second set. Did you change anything to do that?   
 SHAHAR PEER: What do you mean?   
  
  Q. Well, did you change tactics?  
 SHAHAR PEER: I don't want to speak about tactics. I don't think it matters because it's after the match, it doesn't really matter. I lost, and she deserved to win. She was better today, and that's the point.   
  
  Q. What are your plans now?   
 SHAHAR PEER: Doubles.  
  
  Q. And from here where do you go?  
 SHAHAR PEER: I go back home.  
  
  Q. To Israel?  
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Do you travel with your coach?  
 SHAHAR PEER: Actually I just started with a new coach two weeks ago.  
  
  Q. Really? Who is your coach now then?  
 SHAHAR PEER: His name is Martin Romac.  
  
  Q. So you've been two weeks, and you feel better with him do you think?  
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah, I feel good.  
  
  Q. What made you change? You've done well with your new coach in two weeks.   
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah, he cannot change my game in two weeks, but anyway, I'm happy I'm with him now. It's still the beginning. You never know what's going to happen. For now it's going well. I mean, I hope it will keep going like that.   
  
  Q. Obviously today was a disappointing end to an otherwise good campaign for you, singles campaign, your best ever at Wimbledon. How would you sum it up? How would you summarize your week in the singles this year?  
 SHAHAR PEER: You know, I had very, very good wins, especially against Dinara. She's a top-ten player. She had an unbelievable two months, the last one, so on grass, on clay, it doesn't matter, she was playing good. So I'm really happy I beat her.   
 I'm a little bit disappointed, of course, losing. You're never happy to lose. But this is part of tennis, and I will have to improve my tennis.  
  
  Q. Do you think over the past week you've become more confident on grass?   
 SHAHAR PEER: You know, last year also I felt pretty confident. You know, it takes me a little bit to get in the movement and everything. But you know, I lost first round last week, but I lost to Petrova when she played the final there and now she's in the quarters. So it was a tough first round, and now I played fourth round here, so it's pretty good.  
  
  Q. You've still got the doubles obviously. What would it mean to you to possibly win the doubles title here?  
 SHAHAR PEER: It's still too far to talk about winning the doubles. Me and Victoria are playing very good together. We've been planing since the beginning of the year and won tournaments last year, at the end of last year, so I really hope we will do well next round, but we'll see.   
  
  Q. And you also have the Olympics to look forward to. In terms of preparation for that, obviously after this you go home, and then how does the preparation -- what have you got planned?  
 SHAHAR PEER: I'm going to play three weeks in America.   
  
  Q. And obviously you're looking forward to the Olympics and representing Israel?  
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah.   
  
  Q. You must be really happy to have got to the fourth round; it's pretty great.   
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah, it is. Like I said, I'm really happy. I have to take the positive things out of it. I had a great week. I'm in the second week of a Grand Slam again, which I was looking for it because I haven't done it since US Open, the last US Open. So I'm back to my tennis and I'm happy.   
  
  Q. Have you got your name on your shoes?  
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Is that a new thing?  
 SHAHAR PEER: No, my name used to be already a few years, but the flag and the name is first time, Wimbledon last year.   
  
  Q. And you wear it all throughout the world?  
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT