SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 30, 2008
Shahar Peer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. Do you feel like you did something important when you played in Qatar? 
 SHAHAR PEER: I don't know, I hope. Because like you said, it was a lot of reaction for me playing in Qatar. I think a lot of people heard about this story, and I know it was kind of in all over the world, so I hope it did help.

 Q. Last year I also did a story on you, and you told me that you're trying to become more aggressive, you said, to improve my serve so I can use my slice and come into the net. You said it takes time. Talk about that. I know I didn't see you coming in. I don't know if you came in at all. Maybe. But talk about that part of your game. 
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah, you know, it's not that easy like I said. It's not the best. The beginning of the year I changed my coaches, and it's not easy to suddenly just change and play that good and just come in and do whatever I want on the court. 
 So you slowly, slowly build your confidence. I think my serve is much, much better. I don't know about slice defending is pretty good. I can defend pretty good with this. But I'm still not turning to Mauresmo who can come in on every ball to the net. So I still have to work on it. 
 I'm not going to be a serve and volley player, but try to come in. Not now, you know, like I said, it will take time. 

 Q. When, exactly, did you change coaches? 
 SHAHAR PEER: At the end of the year.

 Q. Maybe other people know, but how do you spell the last name so I get it right? 
 SHAHAR PEER: My name? 

 Q. No, your coach.
 SHAHAR PEER: U-r-p-i. 

 Q. And your dad's here now? 
 SHAHAR PEER: Yes.

 Q. He's here. Does that help a lot? Does it help to have him here with you? 
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah. I mean, I travel a lot with my family. It helps me to be not too far from home, you know, to feel it, and yeah, I like him around. 

 Q. I want to talk a little bit, because last year she was also seeded 3; you were on the small court. You remember all the circumstances. It looked like you won the first set, and then she was coming on strong. In the third set she had this 3-0, and all of a sudden, the crowd got stronger for you, and then you win that. Do you feel that crowd's going to make a difference if they're going to be here the next match? 
 SHAHAR PEER: I don't know. I don't have to rely on the crowd. I have to play my game, to play my best, and do whatever I can. I play against her already four times, so I know her quite good. She knows me quite good. It's going to be a good match. I'm just going to go out there and do my best.

 Q. Do you know if that's going to be tomorrow?
 SHAHAR PEER: Yeah, it's tomorrow.

 Q. Do you prefer it that way? 
 SHAHAR PEER: Doesn't matter. I cannot choose anyway, so... 

 Q. You recognize a lot of faces because you're going to see a lot of people in the crowd. I saw them from the reception that we had for you the other night. There was a lot of people that came out. They said it's good to see her again. So I'm glad that you're building up that proud support. What do you think of this tournament in particular? 
 SHAHAR PEER: I mean, it's the biggest tournament after a Grand Slam. It's a nice one. It's nice here, you know. It's pretty hot, which I like. I don't know, you know, like I said, it's a big tournament. They give a lot, Sony Ericsson, and it's a good one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT