U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2018
Scott Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Anyhow, a little birdy told me that you needed your short game to win this one today.
SCOTT ANDERSON: Yeah, a little bit.  Didn't quite hit it as good as I did the first couple days, but you're going to have those days out here.  You just got to survive in advance, and we did that today.
I'm sure that he's a little bit disappointed in the way he played.  Battled through a playoff.  It was long day to start the day for him, and we took advantage.
Q. What kind of things did you do with your short game to get in the lead?
SCOTT ANDERSON: First off, I think these greens out here are perfect.  If you get it online it's going to go in the hole.
Q. Right.
SCOTT ANDERSON: Secondly, just a little bit of extra work, like figuring out the bermuda and stuff like that chipping-wise.
The up and down on 1 was key.  I think that kind of flipped it in a match play situation where he thought he was going to win the hole and we walked off with a win.
That kind of changed the tone of the match.
Q. Then later on you picked up a couple birdies.  On 7, the par-5.
SCOTT ANDERSON: Yeah.
Q. How did you make that birdie?
SCOTT ANDERSON: So chipped in on 7.  Had a bad drive, so hit a 6-iron layup.  Then actually had 6-iron into the green that I hit awesome.
Thought we were going to have a close looking birdie.  Just went over the green.  Had an okay lie, and pitched it in from 15 feet.
So that was nice.
Q. What club did you use to make the pitch?
SCOTT ANDERSON: Lob wedge.
Q. And then he made a little run at you, but every time it seemed like you had an answer; 13 you made a birdie.
SCOTT ANDERSON: Yeah, 13, you know, we really knew that was kind of a pivotal point in the match.  You're 2-up with about six to play, and if we could put one in there close and put some pressure on him, because he outdrove me by about 40 yards, and if we could put the heat on him there we figured we may be able to get it.
Hitting it to three feet is a bonus with a 5-iron.  It was still nice to get that thing in there.  We got it done.
Q. Having gone through everything last year, did you feel a sense of calmness coming into match play?
SCOTT ANDERSON: Yeah, I knew a lot more what to expect.  Last year we really didn't.  I think what I know now is everybody out here is really good so you're never going to have that easy match.
Like you know people are going to make putts, hit good shots, and you just got to mentally prepare yourself for that and understand it's not going to be the easy pace that you might see some other places.
Q. Are you surprised - and you may just be finding this out - that some of what are considered the lower seeds based on stroke play lost today?
SCOTT ANDERSON: Yeah, I mean I think --
Q. Does this course do that to you?
SCOTT ANDERSON: This golf course is really difficult.  It really condenses the field.  I mean, you can really hit some good shots in there that put some pressure on people that normally they might not feel all the time; meaning 6 irons coming in from long range.  If you get it in there 20 feet on some of these greens, I mean, that's a great shot.
It really puts the pressure on the guy hitting next.  It's going to be interesting to see how people handle that the rest of the way.
Q. Is there anything you feel you need to tune up before you start play again tomorrow?
SCOTT ANDERSON: I think I got to hit the driver a little better.  I've hit it pretty good all week.  Today was not a good day, but at the same point, it's only one day.
So I really think just hit the driver in the fairway and just be prepared you're going to have to get it up and down once or twice from a difficult lie and call it a day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT