TMS - HAMBURG
May 20, 2001
Albert Portas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ATP: Ladies and gentlemen, your Tennis Masters Series Hamburg Champion, Dragon Drop Shot racket, Albert Portas.  Questions in English first, please.


Q.  Do you like your nickname?

ALBERT PORTAS:  Yes. Give me a name, I am very happy for this.  If everybody can tell me Dragon, so Dragon for me, it is okay. 

Q.  Why "Dragon?"

ALBERT PORTAS:  I don't know.  You must ask him.  I don't know.

Q.  Master.

ALBERT PORTAS:  Because of the dropshots. 

Q.  Congratulations for the win.  Two questions.  What happened to you in the third set?   In fourth set it was brilliant, you seemed to get it back to your rhythm.

ALBERT PORTAS:  You must ask me what happened with Ferrero in the third set.  So I think that he played unbelievable.  I don't know, I tried to do the same like in the second, but he played really, really good.  So 6-Love, 3-Love and I am thinking to win one game because it was 6-Love 6-Love.  So after I think that I play a little bit more strong and he was a little bit tired in the fifth and end of the match I think it was very, very close and it was maybe a little bit lucky of him.  It was so close the match.

Q.  Was there any moment in the match when you were saying:  Oh, gosh I am going to lose?

ALBERT PORTAS:  So, yes, when I was 6-Love 3-Love, so I was thinking to try to win a game because he was playing unbelievable and I couldn't do anything.  But I think that from then, from 3-1 I played my game again so then the match was another completely.

Q.  You mean that you became more aggressive at that moment?   You were returning --

ALBERT PORTAS:  I was trying to do it all the match, but he played really good in the third so he returned all my serve with a lot of topspin and a lot of power and I couldn't do anything.

Q.  When you were 3-Love up in the fourth he said that he felt a little bit overconfident and that he thought in his mind that "I won the match,"  and he probably relaxed after.  Did you feel that moment when he started to  --

ALBERT PORTAS:  Maybe, yes.  I don't know, so I was trying to put the ball as long as possible because he was playing inside of the court and I was running in one set and a half, so I was really tired, but he  -- maybe he was with a lot of confidence and he couldn't keep up to play like this.

Q.  I suppose that you have been playing the best tennis of your life this week.  Why do you think it is happening now?

ALBERT PORTAS:  So I know  -- I think that four years ago I played really good in Barcelona as well, but from there I think that until this season clay, this clay season from Estoril I didn't feel the same, so now I think that I am in the same way that four years ago and a little bit better.  So now I am  -- I have to change my mind for my objective because at the beginning of the year I was trying to win my first title and to try to improve my ranking.  So now I obtained this both objectives and I try to improve in other surfaces, I think.

Q.  But have you been doing anything different, in practice, in physical training, anything  --

ALBERT PORTAS:  So I change my coach from one month ago and my physical trainer also at the beginning of the year.  Maybe it was   -- I don't know if it was the reason, but for me now I am very, very quiet with both men and I don't know.  I know -- I don't know if he is the reason or not.  So I am doing almost the same because my new coach from one month ago can tell me almost nothing because I play like everyday from three weeks so we cannot practice with special shots or something.

Q.   This the crowd really loved you.  They were screaming.  They supported you.  Did this give you power?

ALBERT PORTAS:  Yes, I didn't feel this sensation from Barcelona so if I play at home I feel like this.  So for me it was very important crowd all the week and especially today it was a big match and I have to give thanks to all the people here.  And for me Hamburg from now will be special, for sure.

Q.  As a 'Drop Shot Master' or 'Dragon,' I don't know, can you explain to us how does that come?   Has that always been work every night or  --

ALBERT PORTAS:  No.  No, I play with  -- it is not  -- I am not practicing this shot, so I have to do it because in clay court almost all the players run, run a lot and you must  -- you cannot do any winner.  So you must try things to, I don't know, for he has to volley after this shot and for me I think that if Ferrero is not in the line, for me it is okay because he has  -- for me he has best tennis in clay court for sure.  So maybe I won today but I think that he is, for me, at the moment, he is No. 1 for sure.  So he won almost all the matches, won all the matches in Roma; he won Roma, Barcelona, Estoril and he reached the final here, so he is the No. 1; not me.

Q.  What did you do to (Inaudible.) Ferrero's game because he has been improving throughout the tournament; you had to go in with a game plan of some sort, what was that?

ALBERT PORTAS:  I think that I was -- yesterday I spoke with my coach and I have to  -- I had to try to do my game with a lot of strong forehands and I was trying to put Ferrero or outside the court or maybe inside with drop shot.  So I was trying to do this.  I don't know if it was the reason of the win, but I don't know, I was trying to do it.

Q.  There was certainly an awful lot of drama in the final.  I don't think anyone would have predicted that it could have happened that way, but what, for you, was the real turning point?   Was it when you won that first game after he put nine in a row?   What was the turning point in the match?

ALBERT PORTAS:  I think that from 3-1 was the key maybe was the first break that I give you from 3-1 to 3-2 because after this break the match was again close.  So 3-2, I was serving again, so the match was Open completely.  So I think that the key was not 3-Love 3  -1- after 3-1, 3-2.

Q.  Did you feel he was tired the end of the match in the fifth?

ALBERT PORTAS:  I think that in the fifth set the level of the match go down a little bit for him and for me as well because I was really tired.  I play qualies here and I play more time than him in all the matches.  But I think that in the fifth he was a little bit more tired than me.  I think.  I was tired too, but if I put a good shot, he cannot move like the other four sets.

Q.  You lost the third set love-6.  What was the reason?

ALBERT PORTAS:  I think that I lost 6-Love, but it was for because he play really great tennis and if no for because I play bad, so I think that he played better than me and couldn't do anything, I think, in the third.

Q.  What are you going to do next week?

ALBERT PORTAS:  I have to go to St. Poelton because I am in the draw and I don't know if I am going to play or not.  I have to speak with people.  So I am really tired and I don't know if it is better that I make a week off before Roland Garros, but any time I have to go and we will see if I am playing or not.  It depends.

Q.  How incredible is this week for you?

ALBERT PORTAS:  For me it is incredible.  I cannot tell you in words.  For me it is the best day of my life, for sure, in tennis, and I couldn't think in the beginning of the week that I can win today.  So for me it is an excellent week.

Q.  What are your expectations for the French?

ALBERT PORTAS:  I am playing with a lot of confidence so I think that all the players know that I am playing good so I think that this is important.  But I think that there are many players that they can win there, so Ferrero, Kuerten, many players, so I try to do the same or similar level like this week and we will see.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT