CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: ALABAMA VS OKLAHOMA
December 26, 2018
Kenneth Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's your impression of Alabama's offense?  What's your best description of how they play?
KENNETH MURRAY: Their offense?  I mean, you see it every week.  They're good.  They're not really the typical Alabama offense of the past.  They don't really do certain things.  They like to spread you out more.  On tape that's what you see.  You see a spread-out team that can grind the power out.  Also, you know, go deep and make big plays.  Very well-coached group.  Looking forward to playing them this week.
Q. Do they compare to anyone you guys played in the Big 12?
KENNETH MURRAY: Yeah, for sure.  We see spread offenses every week.  That's pretty much all we see in the Big 12.  You know, you don't really see too much of the heavy fronts.  So playing this style of play, spreading the ball, stuff like that, that's something we see all the time.
Q. When you play a balanced team like that, what's the mindset?
KENNETH MURRAY: Just balancing up, making sure we have numbers on each side of the ball where they try to out-flank you at certain times.  At the end of the day, football is a game of numbers, so making sure we match those numbers and making sure we make plays.  I think that's the biggest thing for us is getting in position and then making those plays, finishing.
Q. What stands out about Tua?  What makes him a good player?
KENNETH MURRAY: Incredible arm, incredible poise in the pocket, great overall player.  I really respect his game, look forward to getting out there and getting after him on Saturday.
Q. You mentioned that, as we all know, you're going to face an offense like Alabama, do you think it's harder than ever to have a defense that's consistently just -- whatever you call successful, just because between the spread teams you'll face and the bowls that seem to favor offenses?  Do you just accept the fact as a defense that maybe we don't need to look at total yards, we need to find different ways to be successful?
KENNETH MURRAY: I mean, I don't -- I don't want to say that that's acceptable.  As a defensive player, as a leader on the defense, that's never acceptable.  You always strive to be the best.  But I also think you can't hang your hat on stuff like that.  At the end of the day, this team, we found a way to win 12 out of 13 games we've played.  At the end of the day, that's what I think it's all about.  It's all about finding a way to win.  It's all about getting in position right now.  Right now we're in the position of a lifetime, so it's all about taking advantage of that, not hanging your hat on unnecessary things like that.
Q. Obviously you want to score more points than your opposition, but if you look score out of it, what does your eye go to to tell you whether you guys were successful or not?  Is it yards per play, yards per carry?  What do you gravitate to?
KENNETH MURRAY: Obviously you look at all that.  Just total performance, seeing all those yards.  You look at all that stuff and determine what you can get better at and what you need to improve on, stuff like that.  But I think overall at the end of the day, it's all about winning, so as long as we win, I really could care less how the thing shakes out.
Q. The last couple games you've been able to -- the defense has been able to get turnovers.  Is that something the defense can count on, or do you have to find other ways to keep getting those turnovers?
KENNETH MURRAY: I think it's all about just taking advantage of the opportunities when the opportunity presents itself.  I think as a defense the last couple games we've been very prepared, very good with taking advantage of those opportunities.  You know, when the opportunities came, we took advantage of it, and I think that's just a byproduct of our coaches, a byproduct of our players taking advantage of the opportunities.  When opportunities come Saturday, I look forward to guys on my defense and including me myself making those plays and having huge plays in this game.
Q. Is the confidence at an all-time high after holding Texas scoreless in the fourth quarter?
KENNETH MURRAY: I mean, yeah, we feel good.  Obviously we've had a month off, had a month to prepare, so regardless of whatever is happening, at the beginning of the season, throughout the season, stuff like that, that stuff doesn't really matter right now.  It's all about winning a championship.  It's all about honing in on Alabama, getting ready to play those guys this Saturday.  I feel like that's the focus right now.  It's not more so than what went on throughout the season and stuff like that.  Obviously we played a couple good games down the stretch, the last couple games of the season made some big plays, stuff like that.  Guys just realizing that we're capable of doing that stuff definitely gives us a boost and definitely just makes us all more comfortable with each other, so looking forward to getting out there this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT