SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2008
DeWanna Bonner
Nell Fortner
Jordan Greenleaf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Coach, a quick comment if you would and we'll take questions for the players. 
 COACH FORTNER:  I thought we shot the ball really well tonight, and that's so important when you're playing basketball.  The ball has got to go in the hole.  But I was pleased with how we shot the ball.  We hung tough at times. 
 We were having a hard time pulling away from Arkansas, and then we just hung tough and stayed with it and stayed with it and eventually did that, and it was just the persistence and just hanging tough.  So I was proud of the total team effort.  I thought we had good play off the bench and just proud of the whole effort. 

 Q.  Dewanna, it looked like Arkansas threw a lot of different defenses at you guys but you were still able to get some good shots, and you in particular seemed to be able to get them pretty much when you wanted them? 
 DEWANNA BONNER:  I think that's something we worked on throughout the week, and we came out aggressive and took the basket and got some open looks in the middle and in the corner.  We've been preparing for that, and I think we did a good job against their defense. 

 Q.  Dewanna, how do you feel the first half as well as you and the team were shooting? 
 DEWANNA BONNER:  I came out very confident, and we came out with a fire ready to play.  They came out shooting well and I fed off them and they fed off me and we just kind of got rolling that way. 

 Q.  Jordan, similarly, just talk about your team shooting in the first half. 
 JORDAN GREENLEAF:  I think that like Dewanna said, we came out and we executed very well.  I think we were just confident, and Coach has been talking about confidence all year, and I think we just came out and we executed the offense very well. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Coach? 

 Q.  Even though you've already beat this team twice, can you talk about how important it was to get ahead of them early and not let them hang around? 
 COACH FORTNER:  I'll tell you, they hung around for a long time.  We couldn't quite put them away, and that's a real credit to Arkansas.  You know, in preparing to play a team that you've played twice already and beaten twice, it's not an ideal situation, but we made it more about us, more about Auburn and how well we could come in here and play and get the win. 
 We have a lot on the line here.  We're trying to get to that NCAA tournament, so the more wins we get, the better it is for those opportunities to happen.  We just made it more about us and didn't focus on it being Arkansas, and we had played them twice already.  We just wanted to come out and have a great effort. 

 Q.  How momentous, Coach, is it to shoot well heading into a challenge against Vanderbilt? 
 COACH FORTNER:  I think it's very important.  A win builds confidence in your team, and a good shooting percentage like that definitely will help our confidence.  And that's just very important for us.  Vanderbilt is a very good team, and it's going to be -- it'll be a tough ballgame for us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT