NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE SEMIFINALS: JAZZ vs WARRIORS
May 4, 2017
Rudy Gobert
Gordon Hayward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Jazz - 104, Warriors - 115
Q. Gordon, you and your teammates seemed to figure out something offensively tonight.  Can you say what that was and what you take away going into Game 3?
GORDON HAYWARD: Yeah, I think after we got blitzed there in the first quarter and once we settled in and kind of figured it out a little bit and we figured out how to get into the paint and get some shots for ourselves, some better looks, our spacing was a lot better.  We're going to have to try to take that and move forward with it.
Q. Gordon or Rudy, do you take confidence in that when you have a double-digit deficit and end up making some sort of comeback, cutting the deficit to seven there in the fourth quarter?
RUDY GOBERT: I think we play with attitude when we get down, and we need to be from the beginning.  You know, they have a lot of confidence and they make big runs and we need to stop these runs.  I think we need to play angry from the first minute.
Q. Rudy, it seemed like you felt more comfortable out there.  Is that something after Game 1 are you getting a little more comfortable with all these different looks our seeing?
RUDY GOBERT: First of all, I'm feeling better physically.  I have two injuries last series, but I'm just feeling better.  You kind of get used to it.  You're used to playing with these guys.  So every game we try to get better, and I feel like I'm feeling better every game.
Q. Rudy, Quin pulled you to the bench for just a minute there in the third quarter.  Kind of took you aside and told you something, what did you say at that point?
RUDY GOBERT: You know, he just wanted to tell me a little something, it was a quick adjustment and came back in the game.
Q. When you guys come back and cut that to six and they can just explode within a couple of minutes to stretch the lead back out to double digits, how much energy does that kind of take out of you?  How demoralizing is that when they can score so quickly like that?
GORDON HAYWARD: Yeah, it's definitely draining.  I think it all stems from the way we came out of the gates, 33-15 in the first.  You're digging a big hole for yourself.  We played well after that, but it's hard.  It's hard to battle all the way back and then continue.  You see that a lot in teams where you fight all the way back and you know you're close, but you come up a little short, especially on the road, too, and with their fans and their energy.
So we've got to be better, like Rudy said from the get-go, and we have to make that adjustment.
Q. Gordon, how excited are you just to get back home and get ready to defend home court?
GORDON HAYWARD: Yeah, it seems like it's been a while since we've been home.  Just traveling for Game 7 and then coming straight here.  So definitely excited to play in front of our fans.  I know they'll be excited to have us, and we're going to need them.  They'll be really important for us.  They always bring us a lot of energy, and it will be fun playing in front of our fans.
Q. Gordon, what did you see from your point guard tonight with George Hill out?
GORDON HAYWARD: I thought they did a good job.  I thought all of them attacked, came out with energy, got into the lane, made some stuff happen.  That's what we need from them.  We need them to come in with a lot of energy and just lay it all out there.  And I think they did that tonight.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT