NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
Gordon Hayward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  No. 9 Selection, Utah Jazz

 Q. What are you feeling now? 
 GORDON HAYWARD: Right now I'm just so thankful to be drafted by the Utah Jazz. It's been a blessing from God for me. The past couple of years have been a whirlwind. It's been a surreal, winning the state championship as a senior and that just seems like it was the other day and it was about three years ago. 
 Last year, the Final Four; and for me, I'm just really thankful right now. I've got to thank the Miller family and the whole Jazz organization for drafting me and seeing something in me, so I really appreciate that, so I'm excited to get going. 

 Q. You're going to be playing under Jerry Sloan, and definitely, he's into tough-nosed players and you resemble that. How will that be a match made in heaven for you and him?
 GORDON HAYWARD: You talk about tough-nosed players, and I believe when you go out on the court, you have to put it all out there and play as hard as you can. For me, that's what I'm going to try to do and thankful that I get to play for a coach like Jerry Sloan, he's been in the league so long and he's done things the right way and he gets the job done. Like I said earlier, I'm blessed and thankful. 

 Q. How upset do you think your family is right now at the Pacers management and do you think they will rent your room to Paul George? 
 GORDON HAYWARD: They are really happy right now. I understand what you're saying that it was one pick removed. They have been supportive through this whole time and have been thankful, as well, and they are really excited, too. 

 Q. I don't know if you had seen Johnson since the NCAA Tournament, but did you see any words and reminisce about your victory? 
 GORDON HAYWARD: To be honest, we talked about it a little bit backstage before we had this Draft. He said he respects Butler, a couple of guys were hating on Butler still, but we had some laughs and he's going to have a great career. We talked about it and now both of us are going to move forward and hopefully have good careers.

 Q. Does any part of you think, wait a second, I beat him, may have out-played him in that game; how come he's going before you? 
 GORDON HAYWARD: I think that obviously he's laid down some groundwork on his game that he's a great player, so he fits in well for Minnesota and I know he'll do just fine. For me, I'm not worried about that at all. I'm so excited to be going to Utah. 

 Q. Did you watch NBA Finals, especially close this year, knowing that the possibility was that could be you next year? There was a lot of hype with the NCAA Tournament and how well you did, and that's the mecca of college, The Finals are the mecca of the NBA; did you watch closely knowing you would be playing them next year?
 GORDON HAYWARD: I think this year watching it was a little different than every other year I've watched it because of what you're saying. Next year I'm going to be right there on the court competing against those guys. When I was watching it, there was a part of it that I was still just a fan but then I sit back and say, that could be me next year. I think it's exciting, very exciting.

 Q. I realize this is a very exciting moment for you, but in Indianapolis, but at the water coolers tomorrow in the office, there's going to be the perfect story of high school and college and maybe pro; what do you think about that? Obviously it's not in your control, kind of what happened? 
 GORDON HAYWARD: Well, I think it's like I said earlier, I'm just so thankful to be going to Utah, for me, just putting on an NBA uniform in any city will bring a smile to my face. 
 Like I said, I'm just really excited about Utah. This would have been cool to play in Indianapolis but it would have been really cool to play for the Jazz. 

 Q. Do you allow yourself to imagine that as the trifecta of your experience? 
 GORDON HAYWARD: When I was little, that's who I dreamed I would play for, probably because I lived there, and that's something that I think every little boy in Indiana did, they pretended they were Reggie Miller in their backyard.
 For me to be able to play in the NBA, Utah Jazz, winning program, Jerry Sloan, it's very exciting.

 Q. How do you think you'll fit in offensively? Obviously the Jazz run a lot of pick-and-rolls, really push the ball and proficient in the half-court set; how do you see yourself in the offensive game? 
 GORDON HAYWARD: I think it's hard to tell at first until you get to Utah and start to play with the guys and practice, and I think can't really tell where you're going to fit in. For me I'm going to go out there and play hard and take it from there.
 I know that you have to go out there and step up your game on every single level to get on the court with these guys. It's a challenge to get on the court and these guys in Utah already have a good team. Like I said, I'm excited to go out there and just start playing.

 Q. How tough was your decision, because if you came back, Butler would easily have been in the Final Four again. How tough was it to weigh your decision? 
 GORDON HAYWARD: Toughest decision I've ever had to make, and a lot of that was just because of the people at Butler; the fact that we had everyone coming back, you take that into account, in the NCAA Tournament, anything can happen, so you never know. The tough part is just the people at Butler. If you've ever been around there, they are phenomenal people and they do things the right way and it's just a great program, a great program.
 Also, the fact that I was at home; I was 15, 20 minutes from my home and some of my family and friends were there. That was really the tough part. From a basketball standpoint, I was ready to go.

 Q. What you guys did last year was super special, it was one of the most unique things we have seen in a while. How do you put all of that in perspective as you answer a new level of your life? 
 GORDON HAYWARD: I think that for me, it's something that I'll look back and reflect on later in life. I know that at the next level, there's guys who have done similar things on every single team. It's a new level and you're kind of put back at the bottom of the totem pole, so you've just got to work hard and follow what the older veteran players do, and try to learn and soak in everything you can. 
 And then like I said, maybe later back in life, I'll get a chance to look back and kind of live that up with my teammates.

 Q. Have you ever heard of Steve Alford, had a chance to be picked by the Pacers; have you ever met him or will you seek him out? 
 GORDON HAYWARD: I think he was in San Jose when we were there for the NCAA Tournament, so I got a chance to meet him. In fact, when I was little, he had a thing called Steve Alford Workouts and that's what I did in my backyard, ball handling skills, and I was very aware of him and anyone in India that was very aware of him.

 Q. How is it going to a small market?
 GORDON HAYWARD: It's similar to Indianapolis and not that big and I think I'll feel a lot more comfortable. When I walked around there and went through the workout it seemed like a really nice city. I'm excited to go there and start a future there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT