UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 3, 2012
Malcolm Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Have you met Earl Campbell, and what does that name mean to you?   
MALCOLM BROWN:   Yes, I have met Earl Campbell, just all the running backs, he came in the running back room one day, just sat down and talked to all of us.   It was just a great experience because his name is just so big and just so famous around this campus.   Just having him there and talking to him was a really great thing for us.   That was just a star Texas running back.   
   
 Q.   What did you talk about with him?  
MALCOLM BROWN:   He didn't really come in with a message.   He just wanted to talk to us, have a normal conversation with us.   It wasn't some sit down inspirational talk or anything.   He just wanted to sit down and talk to us like a normal human being.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
MALCOLM BROWN:   No, no Heisman pose striking or anything like that.   But it's still the game of football whether he's there or not, so we're just kind of out there playing football.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
MALCOLM BROWN:   Are you saying like how can I help with the passing plays?   Is that what you said?   Just takes practice.   During practice we'll work on it, just finishing out on runs and finishing out those passing plays that we didn't in the past weeks and things like that.   So it just takes practice.   Practice makes perfect.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
MALCOLM BROWN:   Not really.   I just try to run the ball as best I can.   
   
 Q.   Everybody is talking about (Inaudible)?   
MALCOLM BROWN:   There's always room for improvement.   There's little things that we can go in, watch film and maybe we make a wrong cut that could have scored, so it's not anything specifically, but it's just those little things just here and there on one or two plays if we could have made this cut or that cut we might have just broke for five more yards or just had a gain of maybe 12 extra yards or something like that.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)   What are you going to tell him to make sure he's ready on Saturday?   
MALCOLM BROWN:   Definitely.   He's not frustrated at all.   He knows that he came in, and we all have our roles to this team.   Johnson is doing a really great job in practice, and he will be just kind of getting thrown out there in certain packages and stuff like that.   So I mean, he's doing a great job with all that.   He's being patient, and once he gets out there, I know he'll be ready.   He did a pretty good job on Saturday.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.) Do you remember that last year?   
MALCOLM BROWN:   Definitely, I do remember that, that first game was just‑‑ your emotions are running wild, and you just don't know what to do, and all the fans are yelling and stuff.   But at the same time, for me to calm myself down, I just think it's still the game of football, it's the thing you've been playing each and every year since you were little.   So once you just kind of detract from all the screaming fans and just focus on what you're doing, it's very easy.  
   
 Q.   How does your game compare to (Inaudible)?   
MALCOLM BROWN:   Joe is a short yardage guy.   He's real big, real powerful, so he can just kind of run people over and do what he wants to do, and Johnson is a real fast guy.   He has a vision, and we all have a vision honestly, but Johnson, he's more of a speed guy.   And me, I just kind of do what I can.   I mean, honestly I really don't know what to compare myself to them or anything like that.   I just kind of do what I can and I try to get around the edge or run somebody over if I need to.   Just kind of out there playing ball.  
   
 Q.   You make it sound like (Inaudible)?   
MALCOLM BROWN:   I mean, I can have a combination of a little bit of both, but we're all fast, we're all strong, so I mean, we're just out there playing football.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
MALCOLM BROWN:   Yeah, me and Joe, Coach Brown announced that we were offensive MVPs for the game.   They just hand out tee shirts during the team meeting.   It's just a thing that Coach Brown likes to do.  
   
 Q.   Do you have to wear it?  
MALCOLM BROWN:   No, sir, we don't have to wear it around at all.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
MALCOLM BROWN:   I don't know.   Triple option is unique, so I don't know if it's hard to learn or anything like that, but it's all tricky and stuff.   I don't even know how long it would take for me to learn something like that.   Maybe it's not even that hard.   I'm not even sure.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT