NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: AUTO CLUB SPEEDWAY 500
February 22, 2009
Kyle Busch
Jeff Gordon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KERRY THARP: We'll go ahead and roll into our post race press conference at the Auto Club 500 at Auto Club Speedway. Good event here tonight. Kyle Busch put on a heck of a show this weekend, came in third in tonight's race. Kyle, your thoughts about how things transpired out there this evening.   
 KYLE BUSCH: It was a good run for us. The Interstate Batteries Camry was decent there in the beginning. We were sixth through 10th battling our way, biding our time, kind of riding. Kept working on it. Kept making it better and better. Started climbing up the ladder a little bit. Got to sixth, fifth, fourth, made more changes, got to third. Just wish we were able to hang with those guys up front and make it a three-way battle for the lead. Unfortunately, our stuff didn't quite have the grip that those guys did. They were able to motor away from us.   
 Overall a good points day for us to be able to rebound from last week's mess into this week's good fortune. Hopefully we can carry that on into Vegas and run well there and go to Atlanta, same thing.   
 KERRY THARP: We'll take questions now for Kyle Busch.   
  
  Q. Did you ever feel like the car could be a winning car tonight?   
 KYLE BUSCH: No, I felt like we got to third, if I could ever challenge those guys, then maybe. But I couldn't even challenge them. I couldn't even keep up with the 17 and the 24 on that last run.   
 Never thought it was a winning car. Felt like if I could just bide my time right there, I could finish third, just try to protect a third-place finish.   
 I had the best seat in the house for that battle. It was pretty cool to see those guys racing like that. It was a good show for the fans. Their first good race they've had out here in a while. They stuck through the weather. That was cool to have all them here, too, being able to watch those guys, two superstars putting on a show like that.   
  
  Q. You watched that battle for so long. Did you think Gordon was going to get Kenseth?   
 KYLE BUSCH: Yeah, I saw the battle earlier the run before. Kenseth's stuff was getting a little bit loose. As a matter of fact, he was backing up to me. I figured that maybe -- I knew they made an adjustment on that last pit stop, so I wasn't sure how good that adjustment was going to be. It was good enough. They made it to where they could hold their own there with Jeff for a while. Then Jeff's stuff just got tight apparently. I talked to him after the race a little bit. He wasn't able to keep the ground on the bottom like he wanted to.   
 It was cool to watch those guys, though, like that.   
  
  Q. You're going to have more chances to try to get the triple three wins in the same weekend. After going through what you did this weekend, what kind of a challenge is that to win three in the same weekend?   
 KYLE BUSCH: It's never been done before, so it's definitely a challenge. We know that.   
 I've won two in one weekend a few times. In Atlanta last year was probably my best shot to do the three. We won Friday, Saturday we led the most laps and were leading with 20 to go, and we had a shock break, put us in the wall, then we won on Sunday.   
 The last one's always the hardest to get. They leave it the hardest to get because it's on Sunday and it's the biggest show.   
 You know, I don't know. It's not easy in this sport. But never is. But maybe one day.   
  
  Q. Kyle, can you talk about Matt's ability, seems never to really beat himself too much. Going into this year, how much did you consider him a contender?   
 KYLE BUSCH: Well, you never know who to put down as a contender for the championship. But you've got to put down all the guys that made the Chase the year before. Matt's made it four years in a row, whatever it's been. You knew he was going to be a contender.   
 To start off this year with such a bang, it's pretty cool. I think everybody knows by now. The last time it happened was '97 I believe when Jeff did it.   
 So it doesn't come very easily to win two in a row, let alone to win the first two races of the season in a row.   
 He's going to be fast at Vegas there, too. He was fast last year. He was running third or something on that restart and they all wadded up down the backstretch. He'll be good next week, too. He might have a shot for three.   
  
  Q. I know you follow other sports. Can you compare what winning three races in the same weekend is to another sport?  
 KYLE BUSCH: Yeah, I mean, I guess like what Phelps did, winning eight medals or whatever it was. I don't know how many days he goes through before he wins eight. I don't think he wins eight in one day or eight in two days or whatever.   
 You know, it's probably something like that. Just being able to excel at all the different games you play in the Olympic Games, being able to win all of them that you participate in.   
 KERRY THARP: Kyle, thanks for putting on such a great show this weekend. Appreciate it very much. Continued good luck.   
 KYLE BUSCH: Thank you.   
 KERRY THARP: We have our race runner-up, Jeff Gordon.   
 Jeff, you certainly had a fast car. You put on a great show out there. I know you got to have some confidence building right now after the past couple weekends.   
 JEFF GORDON: Oh, man, do we ever. I'm so excited about this race team right now. I just think we're head and shoulders above where we were. I know it's just a couple races in and this is one race.   
 I love the way the car was driving. To be able to battle and go to the front like that, have solid pit stops, I'm just really, really excited and also really bummed out we didn't win the race tonight.   
 Felt like we had the car. Matt was awful good in the pits as well as on the track. That last run, we made one little adjustment. I didn't mind if he got out there on us, but when I started running him down, I was like, We got him, we got him. Then my car started getting tighter and tighter and tighter.   
 As I got to him, I moved around, went to every groove I could possibly find, and the car just wouldn't turn. I kind of knew with about 20 to go that we probably, unless he made a mistake, weren't going to get him.   
 You know, ran as hard as I could and had a great race. Really proud of this team. It's a great start to the season.   
 KERRY THARP: Questions now for Jeff Gordon.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about Matt's ability to not beat himself. What does it mean to a driver to win the first two races of the season?   
 JEFF GORDON: Well, Daytona is such a different type of race, restrictor plate racing. Last week it was about staying away from the crash, being there at the right time, making the move. You got to give those guys credit for being in the position they were in when the rain came and the caution. But still a great race for him.   
 You know, tonight was to me a sign of what we were gonna see more of this season. Those guys were incredible in the pits. I mean, he was good on the track. They made some good adjustments. But I feel like if they didn't get out front, it would have been a different race. They're off to a great start. I think they're going to be really strong this year.   
 I have so much respect for Matt. We've had our differences over time, but I've always had a ton of respect for what kind of racecar driver he is. I tell you, you know, you can say that the pit crew won him the race tonight, but Matt didn't make one mistake.   
 I put a lot of heat on him. I drove as hard as I've driven in a long time. He didn't make any mistakes. Maybe one little slip up, but just wasn't enough for me to do anything with him.   
 So, you know, give those guys a lot of credit.   
  
  Q. You said you feel you're head and shoulders above where you were a year ago. What's been the progress, the biggest change in your mind?   
 JEFF GORDON: It's called getting beat and not liking it (smiling). I mean, I think this team is still -- you know, when you're at Hendrick Motorsports, you see your teammate doing what they're doing, winning races, battling for the championship, winning the championship, it's inspiring to all the other teams.   
 At the 24 Dupont Chevrolet team, we've been there before and we've experienced that, even in '07, as strong as we were. But '08 was very disappointing. Probably the biggest motivation we could have ever had.   
 We just went to work. I'm so proud of Steve Letarte. He got beat up so bad by a lot of people. It's tough being the crew chief of that DuPont Chevrolet. There's a lot of pressure and expectations. Over this off-season, he restructured his engineering group. He went to work on the cars, on the setups, listening to me and what I feel like I need. Those guys worked hard.   
 I changed my routine, too. I've worked harder over this off-season getting myself in shape than I have in a long time. I'm refocused. I'm a little bit more used to being a dad now. I'm just ready.   
 I feel better today going in and after the race than I felt in a long time. I've battled some back issues and some different things. I've been working really hard on those things. It's paying off. I mean, I just feel good when I get in the car. The car is driving good. It's just starting off right. I think we only have room for improvement.   
  
  Q. Earlier in your career you did Busch Series and Cup Series races. Considering what Kyle Busch was attempting to do this weekend, how hard is it to win two races, let alone be in position to win three in the same weekend?   
 JEFF GORDON: Well, someone asked why you'd want to run three races in one weekend and two in one day (smiling).   
 But, you know, the kid is young and very, very talented. When you have that kind of ability, that much energy, then you go out and you do what he's doing.   
 He's impressive in every way. Even with a third-place finish, you know, that he had tonight, I thought he was impressive. In practice, I didn't think they were that good. The beginning of the race, he was okay. But I looked up, he was in my mirror in the closing laps of that race. I was like, Uh-oh.   
 You just can't count him out. He's a great racecar driver. He's got good equipment. It's pretty cool to see.   
 Obviously, the Cup level is a whole 'nother level. But, you know, to come as close as he did is pretty awesome. He's I think one of the few guys out there that really has what it takes to be able to pull off not just two in one day but all three.   
  
  Q. If you would have gotten a 'green-white-checkered' at the end there, what was the chances of you being able to catch him and run him down?   
 JEFF GORDON: I mean, ifs, ands and buts.   
 I thought we were better off on the long run going green all the way to the end. I really thought our chances were better with that. Matt was pretty good on the short runs.   
 But all I can tell you is that my car would get around the outside really good in the first turn. If there had been a 'green-white-checkered', I would have thrown it up there, see where we ended up.   
 You know, we made one little adjustment that I was asking for. It just was a little bit too much. We didn't have the car. They had the car there at the end, probably even if there was a 'green-white-checkered'.   
 KERRY THARP: Jeff, enjoyed watching you this weekend.   
 JEFF GORDON: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT