NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: SYLVANIA 300
September 27, 2015
Jeff Gordon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by Jeff Gordon, driver of the No.24 Drive to End Hunger Chevrolet. Talk to us about your race today.   
JEFF GORDON: Well, as expected, I knew we were going to have to fight really hard. This is a tough racetrack. It's just‑‑ the flat turns and the long straightaways and the compound of the tires, there's just not a lot of grip. You know, I was a little bit worried. We started the race off, and the balance was way off. The grip wasn't great, and I thought, man, this is going to be a long day. But a lot of credit to Alan and the team. They did an excellent job making adjustments, improving the car. You know, we had a bunch of things that didn't go our way, and then luckily there at the very end, we had it go our way where we came in and got four tires, had a decent restart, and were able to drive all the way up there. Luckily we had that long green‑flag run and I know a couple other guys ran out of fuel. That was the best we were all day, and pretty happy to finish it off like that.   
   
 Q. I'm wondering if you can kind of reflect a little bit about the success you've had here in New Hampshire. I talked with Red MacDonald who owns the USA Speedway. He talked about you racing down there, but just kind of the state, particularly of this track in your career.   
JEFF GORDON: Yeah, when I think about racing here throughout all the years, one of the things that really comes to mind is coming here the very first time with the Busch Grand National series, and I think it was in the Baby Ruth car. You know, it was an interesting time in the sport at that time because this was a new track that was being praised. It was great to have a track like this in the northeast, which is something that didn't exist as a true oval this far north, and so we knew there was a lot of big race enthusiasts and teams and drivers up here.   
But the rules back then for Busch Grand National South versus Busch Grand National North had differences. You could run V‑8s in the North series, you could not in the South series. You could run a different rear end up here, and you couldn't down there. So we got our butts kicked when we came here that first time. That's what really stands out to me, and maybe that was '91, I don't know, I thought it was '92, but you know, I'll never forget that, and then coming back here with the Cup Series, I felt like I had a great idea of what this track was like and what it had to offer, and I think it paid off for me over the years in the Cup Series.   
   
 Q. I know you and your crew took the duck boat out before coming out. Can you describe the morale, any stories, any other laughs that the guys had?  
JEFF GORDON: It was very cool. I mean, first when I laid my eyes on it, I was like, that's awesome that we get to ride in this around the track. It's a unique experience, and thanks to New Hampshire Motor Speedway for doing that, and my family got to go with me. It's rare that we get the team and my whole family, they get to ride around the track with me like that, so that was very special.   
Certainly seemed like the fans were pretty excited about it, as well, the way that they were reacting. It was really cool. Yeah, great way to get the day started.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT