NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 6, 2014
Jeff Gordon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How confident are you that this is the year it's going to happen?   
JEFF GORDON:   Well, I'm very confident because we've got such a great race team.   I'm so proud of Alan and all of our engineers and everybody on this 24 Drive to End Hunger Chevrolet team.   Tonight was another one of those efforts, I didn't feel like we had a car that could compete with Brad at certain portions of the night, but we just never gave up on it, great pit stops, great adjustments, and there at the end we were closing on him.   It wasn't a win, but still great momentum to carry into the Chase.   This team is on fire, and we just can't wait to get it all started.   It's been a heck of a year.   Our fans and the way that they've embraced this season has been extremely motivating, and I know how proud they are, and we're proud of the effort and the results that we're getting this year.   
Ten more weeks that we've got to get it done, and this team is ready to do that.  
   
 Q.   You say it takes teamwork to win a championship.   You and Alan have gotten close this year in terms of everything you've been able to do together.   Is that the key for you guys the next 10 races?  
JEFF GORDON:   You know, sometimes it takes time for you to really build your chemistry, and I've always enjoyed Alan as a person and as a crew chief, and we have clicked.   I felt like right from the beginning.   But I don't know if we've really ever had the chemistry or been in sync like we are right now.   The communication is really solid.   I believe 100 percent in him, he believes 100 percent in me, and that's just trickling down through the whole team.   That's why we can go through a tough practice like we did yesterday and rebound and come back and have a solid night.   We can go through blowing that front tire like we had last weekend in Atlanta and get back on the lead lap.   This is the team I want to go to battle with for the next 10 weeks, and it's because of how in sync and the chemistry that we have.   It's a team that really believes in one another, and you can't ask for more than that.   Well, fast race cars, and we have that, too.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT