WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 6, 2021
Brooks Kopeka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. ...through 12 holes, and then you birdie five of your last six, last four in the row.  I saw you show a little emotion there.  That has to bring a smile to your face.
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it was just frustrating today to be honest with you.  I felt like I was in between the whole front nine and really just didn't have a good number and didn't make that many quality shots.
 So, you know, shoot five today.  Feel all right about it.  Didn't shoot myself out of it, but left a lot of shots out there this week.
 Q. At 13-under you have a chance to win tomorrow.  That's obviously your mindset.
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, just got to be within three on the back nine.  Anything can happen here.  Obviously with quite a bit of water off the backside, especially on 11 and 15 and 17, you can make a bogey very quickly.  If you hit a good shot you can make birdie.  It's good risk/reward.
 But it's fun and anything can happen.
 Q. Where is the game right now?  I know getting things together here.  Looked great the last eight holes.
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   It's felt great for a long time.  Just haven't been able to score.  Felt good leaving Palm Springs, and Torrey last week I swung it fine.  Just some other issues.
 But I felt good this entire time.  I feel back, like I said.  Body feels good, so no reason not to play good.
 Q. And the crowd was behind you out there.  That had to feel good, especially with people out here.
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I said it yesterday, I don't know what it is, but I'm so flat without fans.  My best results are with fans or a major.
 So I struggle with that, so it's good to see them out.
 Q. You finished at 66 today.  Just thoughts on the round.
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, I felt like I left a lot out there.  I left a lot out there this week.
 But, you know, proud of the way I finished.  Solid, and have a chance tomorrow, and outside chance.
 Q. What number do you think it's going to take to get to the top tomorrow?
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   I don't know.  What am I, 13?  Probably at least 63.  Something like that.  It's doable.  You just got to get off to a good start on the front nine.  The back nine is definitely doable if you put it in the right spots.
 Anything can happen those closing four or five holes.
 Q. You mentioned it's been energizing playing in front of fans.  Can you just speak a little bit about that?
 BROOKS KOEPKA:   Yeah, it's nice to see them back.  I've been so flat it's tough for me to get up without them.  I've struggled with it.  Last year I wasn't paying attention to anything else other than trying to get healthy.
 Guys probably had a year's worth of adjustment, and I just can't do it.  I've struggled.  But it's nice.  I've played well with fans.  It's either a major or with fans seems to be my best results, so it's nice to see them back.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT