FORT WORTH INVITATIONAL
May 25, 2018
Brooks Kopeka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Really super round of golf today:  7-under par.  In fact, you were 7-under after 11 holes.  Your thoughts on how it went out there for you.  
BROOKS KOEPKA: I played pretty solid.  I made some putts early which kind of opened the door.  Felt like I was stroking it really well yesterday.  I mean, I stroked it really well yesterday, too.  Just nothing kind of went in.  I don't know if it had to do a little bit with speed.  They kind of all missed on the low side.   
Tried to be a little bit more aggressive with the putter today, but I'm very pleased with the way I played.   
 Q.  Including the hole-out at 14 from off the green.  Talk about the putting.  Some type of adjustment, or just got in a groove?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, these greens aren't fast by any means.  They're a little bit slow for I guess tour speed and even being home and practicing they're a touch slow.   
I mean, I love fast greens.  You barely just got to hit it and just get it started.  Just had to be a little more aggressive.  I felt like they were all tap-ins yesterday instead of hitting it two, three feet by.  That's kind of more my style, being a little bit more of an aggressive putter.  Just made that adjustment this morning.   
 Q.  Now, you were 3-over with five holes to go in the first round; 10-under since.  What, did you give yourself a pep talk?  What changed?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: It doesn't matter to me.  I could care less.  I'm still going to try as hard as I can.  I don't care how many over or how many under I am.  Still going to fight through it.   
To be honest with you, we were playing well yesterday.  Felt like we had some bad breaks.  Didn't make any putts.  I felt like we were playing well, it's just the score didn't really reflect it.   
 Q.  (Regarding wrist.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No, do a lot of icing.  Do a lot of everything we can do.  We had a bone pop out of place.  I didn't tell anybody, but, yeah, they popped it back in.   
Ice every night, a lot of rest.  Taking care of it, but, I mean, doing some stuff in the gym for it too trying to get it moving a little bit.  Luckily enough we kind of popped it back into place right away so it wasn't stiff and I didn't have too, too many problems.   
It's behind me now.   
 Q.  So you're good now?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah.  I mean, I've dislocated my wrist twice in the last two months.  You know, different spots, but, I mean, it's fun.  I'll be all right.   
 Q.  So 7-under through 11 holes.  You feel like you left some out there or you feel good about the round as a whole?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Feel okay.  Feel like there was definitely quite a few more out there, especially yesterday. Today I probably could have snuck about two, three more.   
But, you know, I'm pleased.  If you would've told me I was going to shoot 7-under before I tee'd off, I would've taken it.   
 Q.  Trying to get a little momentum going into the U.S. Open this week and the next couple weeks?  
BROOKS KOEPKA: Yeah, I feel like I've been playing well.  I just haven't put four days together.  I've been really close, one day the putter is a little cold, one day ball-striking might not be that great.   
But I feel like it's trending in the right direction.  I actually feel like exactly where I was last year at the same time.  Feel like I was playing great.  Sometimes the scores weren't really reflecting it, but hopefully in a couple weeks' time it'll be the same result.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: No.  I mean, I was hydrating all night.  I think having a late/early you feel like you're always kind of catching up.  I mean, I must have drank seven bottles of water last night just trying to make sure I was hydrated for today.  Out of the golf course I feel like you just drink on every hole.   
But living in Florida, summertime, it is what it is.  You have this all the time, so it's not too big of a deal.   
 Q.  Mindset going into the weekend?  (Indiscernible.)  
BROOKS KOEPKA: You know, be nice.  Obviously get to -- not going to relax, to be honest with you.  Go to the gym, but it'll be go to the gym, relax, take it easy for a little bit, hydrate, get everything ready for tomorrow.   
Feel like we've got a good game plan on this golf course.  We're executing quite well.  It's something that's been coming.  I feel like we're ready to win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT