THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 3, 2010
Drew Brees
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DREW BREES: Obviously I love the game of golf. It's way try to do a little bit in the off-season. Unfortunately I haven't had a chance to play a round of golf since last June. That's what happens when you go and play in the Super Bowl in February, but I'll take that every year. Just happy to be here and happy to have a chance to play with those guys and to be around those guys.  
  
  Q. Are you living like a dream right now, to win the Super Bowl, now you're here with these guys?  
 DREW BREES: Yeah, it's something you obviously dream about, you set your goals toward in everything you do. Nine years in the NFL it took to have a shot at winning the Super Bowl and now that we won it, I guess it took a week or two to kind of sink in. But certainly it's just one of those things that it's a dream come true.   
  
  Q. Do you get nervous playing outside of your element?   
 DREW BREES: That's exactly what it is, it's outside your element, outside your comfort zone a little bit, especially if you know you haven't played, you don't have as much confidence in that three-foot putt as you do on a third down pass.   
 But we'll see how it goes. Obviously I love the game of golf. I really enjoy playing it, and I think it's about the guys you're playing it, too. Having a chance to play with Jack Nicklaus, Dan Marino and Kenny Gee, it's a great honor.   
  
  Q. What is it like playing with Jack Nicklaus?   
 DREW BREES: Oh, man, legend. I have a signed Masters flag in my office with his had signature on it. Obviously you know what he's meant for the game of golf, and just to have the opportunity to not only meet him, but play with him is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.   
  
  Q. What will you ask him?   
 DREW BREES: Well, kind of interesting to hear his perspective on how the game has changed over the years, obviously from the time that he played until now. I know he's heavily involved in course design and very successful, so kind of definitely always interested in hearing what his thoughts are on that and kind of what his style is.   
  
  Q. When you got back from New Orleans, did you get a sense how important this was --  
 DREW BREES: Oh, we knew, we knew well before then. I mean, ever since March of 2006, I was -- what it meant for them, we made a lot in '06 to get to the Championship Game and unfortunately lost to Chicago and been trying to get back ever since. Went through two tough years in 2007 and 2008; it was kind of heartbreaking back and forth.   
 Always knew that if we just stayed the course, we would have the support of our fans and that gave us strength over the years, especially this year we could win a championship. But there's no city that deserves it more than New Orleans.   
 Here's the thing, you know, we needed the city as much as you might say that they were needing the Saints and needing us as a team to be successful.   
 We just leaned on each other for the last four years, we have so much support from them that in the end, there wasn't extra pressure on us, but it was strength they gave us. We knew we were playing for much more than ourselves and our team and our organization. We were playing for a city.   
  
  Q. What's your handicap and how good are you? What kind of player are you?   
 DREW BREES: My goal is just to get better, a little bit better each year. When I was playing well last year I was a three, but like I said, I literally have not played a round of golf since June.   
  
  Q. What is your style of play?   
 DREW BREES: Grinder. (Laughing).  
 You know, I make solid contact and I hit it pretty well. But short game could be my nemesis at times, consistency, putting, in and around the green. But as long as I can keep it in the short grass and not be too concerned with this, more so just consistency and accuracy, I think that's the key.   
  
  Q. What's it like being back in South Florida less than a month after the Super Bowl?   
 DREW BREES: Well, pretty neat. Yesterday, driving to the hotel -- first of all the weather is so good. The wind makes it a little chilly here, but just, I don't know, I think there's going to be a special place in my heart for South Florida forever, you know, after winning a Super Bowl down here, and just whenever you come back down here, it's that influx of all the memories from a few weeks ago, and just for the rest of my life, just knowing what happened here and the guys that were a part of that, and also in our city, makes it special.   
  
  Q. Did you watch Marino going up?   
 DREW BREES: Oh, I've always been a huge fan of his and obviously one of the greatest of all time. Interesting last year chasing his record, the 5,084 yards, we're chasing it, chasing it and had a chance in the end and fell just short.   
 But had a chance to talk to him after that, and it was kind of an interesting conversation, because you know, he said he was watching the game and he said that he was -- (Inaudible.) Obviously it wasn't meant to be and he was meant to keep it for at least awhile longer. You look at what he was able to accomplish, and it was pretty remarkable.   
 Obviously I always expected for us to win the Super Bowl. That's why we play the game and that's why we work so hard. So the expectations, the goals were there, and you feel like you're prepared for it. And when it actually happened to me, you kind of reflect back on the journey it took to get there and you look at how life has been afterwards the last three weeks, it's been nuts. It's been mayhem. Right after the Super Bowl going to Disney World, riding in the Disney parade with my son is awesome. And then Mardi Gras, right after that, Mardi Gras parade, Super Bowl parade, I feel like I've done for parades in the last three weeks than I have in my life.   
 It's been an awesome experience, one that I hope we have a couple more experiences like this.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 DREW BREES: Absolutely. Absolutely. He's been able to, I mean, revolutionize the sport. He was one of the guys that made golf popular and made the sport that it is today; to play for the length of time that he's played and the number of championships that he's won, major championships, especially, you just have to sit back and just say, wow, that's so difficult to do.   
 Especially once you get to a certain level, because you know at that point everybody is gunning for you. You need your best performance every time out in order to win and what he's been able to accomplish over his lifetime has been unbelievable.   
  
  Q. What made you get into the horse business and how is it treating you?  
 DREW BREES: Well, I'm part of an ownership group that owns a couple of racehorses. I can't say that I know all there is to know about horse racing but they are beautiful animals and it's fun to watch them race. We've had a little success in that regard. It's kind of fun. Our ownership group, it's called last Last Mango Racing Stables. Jimmy Buffet is part of our group and quite a few other guys around the country. It's one of those fun things that we had a chance to talk about.   
  
  Q. How much will you allow yourself to enjoy what's happened in the last month before having to refocus on 2010?  
 DREW BREES: I think it's important to take time away and kind of recharge your battery both physically, mentally, emotionally. Because that was quite a ride. It's been -- it doesn't seem like a slowdown at all here over the last three weeks.   
 Certainly going to take some time with my family and relax and try to get away and not think about football for a while. Play some golf and enjoy our time together and get going again. Late March, April, get ready for a repeat.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 DREW BREES: Yeah, absolutely, he text me after the game and we went back and forth a little bit. I've got a lot of respect for him. He's a great player, class act, and should be many more battles like that down the road.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT