NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 15, 2020
Brandon Ingram
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was the turning point that you're an All-Star now?
BRANDON INGRAM: Coming to New Orleans. I mean, just putting the work in every single day, having good teammates and good people around me. I think that helped out a lot.
Q. How are you feeling?
BRANDON INGRAM: I think I'm feeling pretty good. I've been making progress every single day. I've been working out. So I feel fine.
Q. What's your favorite off-the-court pastime?
BRANDON INGRAM: Non-basketball? Fishing.
Q. How would you feel about a one-on-one tournament for All-Star Weekend?
BRANDON INGRAM: As long as there's not any injury, I like one-on-one. I'm intrigued by it.
Q. If you could add any rule to the NBA, what would it be?
BRANDON INGRAM: If I could add any rule to the NBA, I don't know if they do the flopping thing anymore, but I'd reinforce that. I'd have a big fine for flop. That's for sure.
Q. What's it like playing with Lonzo [Ball]?
BRANDON INGRAM: Playing with Lonzo, he makes the game a lot easier for me, passing the basketball. He's a hard worker. We see each other pretty much twice a day every single day with us putting our work in. So it's been a joy playing with him.
Q. Where you grew up back home, how much has it led to where you are right now?
BRANDON INGRAM: That's where it all started. My dad owned an rec gym about five minutes from the house, and I just fell in love with the game of basketball. It's been my outlet ever since.
Q. Yesterday you were at the NBA Cares event, and I was there too. I'm wondering if you might expand on kind of teamwork, teamwork on the field with your teams, but also teamwork with NBA with a lot of NBA players working throughout the weekend. Can you talk about your background and why giving back is so important, why that event yesterday is great.
BRANDON INGRAM: Well, I think it's important because I come from a city and town of families that aren't as fortunate as others, and I realize that other kids are going through the same thing. So every opportunity that I can get to give back and give back to the ones that support me, I'm going to do it every time because I was a kid looking at the guys in this All-Star thing too. It's good to give back to others.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT