NBA DRAFT 2016
June 23, 2016
Brandon Ingram
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: If you'd just start off with opening remarks about what you'll bring to the Lakers.
BRANDON INGRAM: I just want to say thank you, guys, for being here, of course.  I'm just very excited to be in this Lakers franchise now and just try to go in and impact this game in a different type of way and be the hardest worker on the floor.
Q. Have you thought about some of the things that you're going to do for your community?
BRANDON INGRAM: Of course.  I know I definitely want to give back in different ways.  Of course start some basketball things out there.  I know I want to do something in my dad's rec gym, but do something for some schools out there.  I know those people have been big supporters for me, so of course I'm going to give something back to Kinston, North Carolina.
Q. How does it fit for you and how do you feel like you're going to fit with the Lakers and the idea of playing with Julius Randle, Larry Nance, and of course D'Angelo Russell?
BRANDON INGRAM: It's funny, you just named every game in a different position, and I think I fit in that mold just watching those guys over the last season and just knowing they're young guys but they're all good guys.  Just on my visit when I went to my visit, it was a great visit and it was a great workout.  I just know those guys will bring me in and we'll work very hard.
Q. You're the first major move for the Lakers in the post-Kobe era and you play the same position.  Do you feel pressure to fill his shoes?
BRANDON INGRAM: Yeah, you kind of feel pressure but it's a good pressure, of course.  It gives you motivation and the potential to be someone like Kobe Bryant and some of the greats in the league.  So of course, if I just go in and impact in any way I can and just listen to the coach and be coachable.
Q. Is that the kind of pressure you like, to come in there and try to replace somebody like that?
BRANDON INGRAM: I'm just going to be myself.  Whatever I can do to impact the game, whatever the coach needs me to do, I'm going to do it.
Q. You go from Duke, now you're a Laker; that's every kid's dream.  Does it feel that way?
BRANDON INGRAM: Most definitely.  I think just I grew up being a Kobe fan, of course, before I was a Kevin Durant fan.  But of course that's every kid's dream.  Just my Lakers jersey back at home, and I'm definitely going to take this ride and work the hardest I can to be the best player I can be.
Q. Can it get any better?
BRANDON INGRAM: Can't get any better.  Can't.
Q. Speaking of your Duke days, what's something you learned from Coach K that will serve you on this level?
BRANDON INGRAM: One thing from Coach K and from J.J. Redick is you're always becoming; you've never arrived.  And I use that day by day just for me to work hard each and every day, and know that no matter how good I worked out today, no matter how good I thought I was today, I can always get better and I can always be a better person.  Even Coach K thinks he can be a better coach each and every day.  So if he thinks that, I can definitely can be a better basketball player.
Q. You have a relationship with Jerry Stackhouse.  Talk about that a little bit.
BRANDON INGRAM: A relationship that I've groomed since about the sixth grade.  He used to come back to Kinston, of course, while he was in the NBA and he used to run little camps, and I eventually got on his AAU team and he kind of paved the way for me to create opportunities for colleges to come see me, and I think he's a big reason why I'm here today.
Q. Was he disappointed you chose Duke instead of Carolina?
BRANDON INGRAM: Of course you think so.  Of course I think so.  But he gave me a good response and said he's glad I made my decision, and he's happy I did it for myself and for my family.
Q. What are your thoughts about playing for Luke Walton and his pace-and-space offense that he wants to bring to the Lakers?
BRANDON INGRAM: Of course everyone wants to play like the Golden State Warriors, so just seeing that and seeing him coach those guys and just with the young guys that we have, the shooting ability and the passing ability for D'Angelo Russell and the different things that the Lakers do I think it's a good fit for me.
Q. What's your dream NBA match-up?
BRANDON INGRAM: NBA match-up?  Since I've always been a Kevin Durant fan, I would probably say Kevin Durant, but I'm just excited to go against all those guys.  None of those guys take a night off, so I've just got to expect someone to go at me and of course, for me to compete.
Q. Would it be fun playing against another Duke grad like Justise Winslow or Jahlil Okafor?
BRANDON INGRAM: Most definitely.  I think that that's where your competitive edge comes out, and you just try to beat them up and beat them up as much as you can.
Q. Jerry Stackhouse is one of the sharpest athletes I've ever met, big believer in education.  Has he spoken with you about making sure you finish your educational side as well as being a basketball player?
BRANDON INGRAM: Most definitely.  I think even when I left Duke, it was something that I talked to my adviser about, just coming back each and every summer that I could make it back or taking online classes.  No, I have a lot of downtime, and that's something I definitely want to accomplish.
Q. What's your fondest memory of the Lakers?  How far do you go back?  And what do you think about Kobe Bryant?
BRANDON INGRAM: Well, I was born in 1997, so it couldn't be too far, but probably Kobe's last championship.  My impression of Kobe is just his drive.  Everyone talks about how he works out, his work ethic, and that's something that I eventually want to get to, of course, and just want to talk with him and try to learn what he did to try to be what he is today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT