ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 15, 2018
Brandon Harkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Despite the bogey to finish that, is a good opening day's work.  Your thoughts?
BRANDON HARKINS: Yeah, it was really solid.  It seemed like when I didn't pull driver off the tee I missed the fairway, but for the most part I got it in play today and I had a couple ekes, which is like stealing, but, no, I'm very happy.  I struggled on the speed a few times out there, but that's nothing we can't figure out this afternoon.
Q. It was cold this morning.  How did the golf course play earlier?
BRANDON HARKINS: Long.
(Laughter.)
It was very cold.  I had three warm layers on and we were playing almost an additional club for the whole first nine, really.
Q. In terms of firmness of the greens do you expect them to firm up some in the afternoon?
BRANDON HARKINS: Absolutely.  We don't have a ton of wind today, but whatever wind there is will firm them up.  They're already there and the speed, they're phenomenal, they're in such great shape and they're rolling beautifully.
Q. Two eagles today on 6 and 16.  As you look back on your round what do you feel like your strengths were out here today?
BRANDON HARKINS: I think I did, for the most part, a good job of getting the ball in play off the tee.  It was funny, the few times I missed the fairway it seemed like it was less than driver.  So, yeah, two eagles is a huge bonus, especially around here -- I had a kick in for one of them too.  But, yeah, very pleased and I think mainly just getting off the tee, because the rough out here is brutal.  So just get it in the fairway and it's a big help.
Q. Light winds to this point, not a lot of low numbers out there, super low numbers, what's the biggest challenge out here?
BRANDON HARKINS: At least in my opinion it is the rough.  The rough is up, it's been up all week, and going off first this morning it was very cold and the rough was wet.  So if you did hit it in the rough it was a possible chip out.  On 18 I had to pitch out, just had a nasty lie.  So I think the rough is probably one of the key defenses.  The other thing is the speed of the greens.  They're rolling beautifully, they're very fast, and as the week goes on they're only going to firm up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT