CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 19, 2018
Brandon Harkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BRANDON HARKINS: Struggled a little bit off the tee but was able to maintain my approaches into the greens.  I would say all in all I scored better than I probably should have today, but it's nothing we can't figure out on the range afterwards.   
 Q.  There's going to be rounds like that, it's the game of golf.  You've really taken your time to gets to the PGA TOUR and have made plenty of stops on your road here, but your rookie season you've already had a top-10 and four top-25, how has the journey to get here shaped you to where you are right now?  
BRANDON HARKINS: You know what, that's a good question, I wish I really knew.  I just kind of stick to my game.  I'm not the youngest rookie out here, that's for sure, but I've learned over the years that what I do is pretty good and I think it's starting to show.  Just having that trust in what I do is probably the biggest thing.   
 Q.  Being from California this is a place that you know pretty well.  How comfortable are you on these courses?  
BRANDON HARKINS: Very.  Years ago I played final stage of Q-School here, so I've been around these tracks a lot, for the most part, all these courses on the West Coast.  Growing up in California, it's very comfortable for me.  Now living in Scottsdale, that's another one.  So that's some of it, I feel very comfortable out here and it's nice to have a lot of support, family and friends out, it's really good.   
 Q.  Another nice really solid round for you, I thought you were going to birdie 18 as well, just left it a little bit shy.  
BRANDON HARKINS: Yeah, it was a good round, probably about what I should have shot.  Hit some good putts that didn't go and on the other side of things I hit some bad tee balls.  So all in all I'm happy, but there's some things I need to work on this afternoon on the range for sure.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts going across the street here, across the driving range and going to what is traditionally the hardest of these three courses?  
BRANDON HARKINS: Oh, yeah, absolutely.  I'm excited.  Played two rounds this week over there and I've had some good rounds out there.  I played Q-School here.  It is the hardest of the three tracks for sure, but it's nothing that good golf doesn't take care of.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts for the weekend?  
BRANDON HARKINS: I haven't thought too much past this, but just keep doing what we're doing and see where we are come Sunday afternoon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT