CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 19, 2018
Brandon Harkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Yesterday over on La Quinta magnificent round, no blemishes on the scorecard at all.  Today 68.  What's been the strength of your game going forward?  
BRANDON HARKINS: Good question.  I've been very sensible about where my misses have been this week.  I hear people say that I'm thinking well, some people don't know what that means, but we're staying patient, missing on the proper side, and been fortunate enough to roll a few putts in here.   
 Q.  You're a rookie on TOUR so I expect that you might not have played here before.  But you have played in Q-School.  How different is it to play in this environment?  
BRANDON HARKINS: Yeah, that's a good question.  To be honest, TOUR school's a bit more nerve wracking because you're playing for your livelihood.  In the sense that with the PGA TOUR being here, it's great, I'm out here my first year out here and I'm relishing every moment I can.   
 Q.  Where does the strength of your game lie and where can you improve?  
BRANDON HARKINS: I think that I'm a pretty good iron player, and then once I'm on the greens I think I'm able to roll in putts.  I would definitely say putting's become more of a strength the past couple years.   
 Q.  Your first start on the PGA TOUR as a full member was earlier in the season.  How much value did playing well early in the season help you and make you maybe feel like you belong out here with these guys?  
BRANDON HARKINS: Absolutely.  I felt like I played pretty good, not amazing.  On top of that I played in the U.S. Open at Oakmont, I made the cut there, that was my first ever TOUR event and I took a lot of confidence from that.  And then moving forward to now it's still there, still in the back of my mind.   
 Q.  How about the possibilities of this weekend, how excited are you about what could happen?  
BRANDON HARKINS: I haven't thought too much about it, I don't even know where I stand on the leaderboard, but we're just doing one thing at a time here and I'll go work on the range after and get ready for the Stadium Course tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT