NCAA MEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 30, 2016
Andrew Beckwith
Alex Cunningham
Gary Gilmore
Anthony Marks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Coastal Carolina - 4, Arizona - 3   
THE MODERATOR: Gary, give us an overview.  What happened out there.   
COACH GILMORE: I'm at a loss for words.  I hadn't planned on this one.  I didn't know what to say.  But there were moments along the way all season long, especially down the stretch through all these different tournaments and stuff and.   
I've said it several times, I felt all along there's been a hand on my shoulder.  And, I don't know, I think if you go back and look from the seventh inning on, I don't know if I unfolded my hands the whole time we were playing, because my only regret in this is that my father's not here to give me the biggest hug; that I was sure I would give anything in my entire life for that hug because I wouldn't be here without him, the things he taught me baseball-wise and everything else.   
And before I talk about the game, Dad, I miss you.  And if there's a thing up in heaven of you looking down on me, I know there's the biggest smile that's ever been on your face.  You kept telling me we could win a national championship at Coastal Carolina, even when I doubted it myself.  And I thank you for that so much.   
And for me, Lord, the biggest thing that I want to say is thank you for the opportunity to coach this group of young men.  That's one of the greatest blessings.  Whenever I die, I'll know that this group of guys here, they willed themselves to be national champions.  They truly did.  They're passionate.   
ANTHONY MARKS: Couldn't have done it without you, 1-4.   
COACH GILMORE: It's meant to be.  No doubt.  If there's such a thing as a team of destiny, or whatever, this group is it.   
And, lastly, I want to say University of Arizona, I don't know if we've ever played them.  I don't think I've ever coached against Jay before outside of when he's at San Diego and stuff, but I tell you what, they're a class team.  Unbelievably talented and so well coached.   
And I just -- my hat's off to him.  He came in a tough situation into that place and got that team here, and they're so talented and some of the classiest young men we've ever competed against.  And I want to wish them well.  They've got a team that's got a chance to come back here again next year, and so do two or three other teams we've played that were here.   
I thank the good Lord we got our one shot, and these young men found a way to get it done.   
 Q.  Anthony, the throw you made in the ninth inning, getting the ball quickly, the whole play, Jay Johnson called it the play of the year in college baseball.  Can you describe what was going through your mind?  Were you playing him not to pull, because it seemed like you got on the ball real quick and unloaded real quick?  And it wasn't even a decision, that Jay Johnson said they send the guy almost every time, not even a decision to make if they have a shot to score.  
ANTHONY MARKS: We were just playing no doubles.  Wasn't really shaded down the line or anything, more towards the gap because the gap can kill you because this is a really big ballpark.  But we do that stuff every day.  We've been doing the double cuts.  We do it every day in and out and we practice it.  We beat it in our heads.   
And we actually have one against Texas Tech where I threw it in, threw it to Mike, and it was just a hair high.  That was the difference between safe and out.  And I knew that hopefully I'd get another opportunity to do it, and just came in a little bit bigger spot.   
But there's really nothing going through my head, just to get the ball in, give it to Mike, and then it's out of my control from there.  And I just wanted to do my job, for sure.   
 Q.  Alex, just to piggyback on that question.  What was your reaction on that play?  Off the bat did you think, oh, man it's a tie ballgame?  
ALEX CUNNINGHAM: Honestly, I didn't look at the ball.  I thought it was telling foul, but someone told me the wind was kind of pushing it back in.  Honestly, I was just in disbelief.  But I had all the confidence in the world that we were going to pull that one out.  There was never a doubt in my mind.  Granted, I definitely didn't throw the best.  Don't get me wrong.  I did not throw well at all.  But did well enough.  And luckily our offense came today.  And we got it done.   
 Q.  Did it hit you at some point out there, it's the national championship game, it's a one-run game, second and third, a single loses the game?  What was the moment like for you?  
ALEX CUNNINGHAM: Running joke.  None of you probably all know this, in high school I lost the state championship three times in a row, so --   
COACH GILMORE: You tell me now.   
ALEX CUNNINGHAM: I'm telling you now.  And I was not going to lose this, and I promised you that.  Coach Thomas came out there and had a meeting and said, you know, intent, intent, intent is going to win you this game, this pitch, this battle, whatever.   
But, yeah, that's all it was, just intent and just going out there competing like I know how to.  Like I said, I didn't have my best stuff.  I wasn't throwing a lot of strikes.  But I just competed as best as I know how.   
 Q.  Andrew, that trophy sitting next to you, first national championship trophy of any kind for your program.  What does that trophy signify to you?  
ANDREW BECKWITH: Just the hard work we put in.  The hard work the alumni have put in to get us to have these great facilities and this coaching staff is just unbelievable.  And the senior class pushed everyone from the start when they got back in the fall, and just one goal was to get to Omaha and win it all.   
And we got to Omaha and we won it all.  We won a national championship.   
 Q.  Anthony, you were talking about this a little bit last night, but can you talk about you show up at Coastal Carolina as a walk-on hoping to make the team.  Here you are four years later.  Didn't get drafted, it may be the last baseball game you play serious competition, and you're a national champion.  Could you talk about how that feels?  
ANTHONY MARKS: This is unbelievable.  I never doubted myself.  I really believed in my heart that I could compete at one of the highest levels, and that's really why I took the chance to come to Coastal Carolina.  And thankfully Coach Gilmore believed and saw the same thing I did; that I could compete at this level.   
And I know we butted heads a couple times and it wasn't easy at first, but he just stuck with me, kept having confidence in me.  And I owe everything to that man down there.  Coach Gilmore did so much.   
And, I mean, to be here, and really I never really thought -- since the draft started, I didn't even think about not playing baseball again.  Because we got here, we had two big Super Regional games, and like Coach Thomas said before:  Don't even think about that because at this point in time this is the biggest moment in our lives.  So don't miss it.  Don't miss out on the biggest moment in your life.   
And if that's my last time putting on a uniform and spikes, then I'm going out on top for sure.   
 Q.  For any of the players, just talk about that four-run inning and how important that was to be able to play with a lead like that?  
ANTHONY MARKS: That was a very big inning for us because, yet again, another starter for Arizona, Dalbec, just had nasty stuff, and he really was controlling our offense until that point.  He was shutting us down, commanding the baseball.  I mean, really, really sharp slider.   
And someone down there -- that whole inning started with David Parrett.  Yet again, David Parrett coming up big for us, big, big takes, gets himself a walk.  And like our offense has done all year, we look for one person to spark us up and give us that one good-quality at-bat and get everyone else going.   
I think you saw that.  Granted, we took full advantage of one mistake that they made, which I don't think they made too many mistakes.  That's a great ball team over there.  And we made the most of our opportunity.  And like I was telling someone out there, I knew it was time.  That ballpark wasn't holding G.K. this whole tournament, no way.  No way was it.  He's really big to our offense, for sure.   
ANDREW BECKWITH: Yeah, I'm sitting in the back of the dugout watching it, and this offense has capitalized on other teams' mistakes, and they make that error up the middle, and, I mean, G.K. just punishes that ball.  There's no other word for it.  And it's a long inning for me, and I've gotta go back out there.  But the offense has carried us a lot of the way this whole season.  And they came up big tonight -- today.   
ALEX CUNNINGHAM: They answered everything.  I was just grateful to come in with the lead, and luckily I didn't blow it.   
 Q.  For all of you guys, Coach talked about maybe how his coaching style has changed over the years and he looks at where he is now and says who is this guy coaching this team.  I'm curious what is it about him about his temperament that helps put you guys in the position to do something like this?  
ALEX CUNNINGHAM: My man is a dawg, he's one of the greatest men I've ever got the pleasure to know.  He goes to war for you.  He'll battle with you, bleed with you, fight with you.  And I just -- I appreciate that and I respect that, because I'm, honestly, kind of the same way.   
Our motto all year has been selfless and relentless for the past two years, selfless and relentless.  It's on the carpet in our locker room.  And Coach Gilmore, he's literally the epitome of that.  He embodies it in everything he does.  And I love him, man.  I love Coach Gilmore with all my heart, I really do.  He's the best.   
ANDREW BECKWITH: Yes, you know, he's our guy.  Gilmore's our guy.  And we wouldn't want it any other way.  And he picked the right coaches this year.  Hopefully we'll have all of them back.  I know these two guys will be back.  But we're trying to make another run.   
But, yeah, Coach Gilmore just brings it every day, and we just try and back him up as juniors and seniors, and the freshmen and sophomore really do pay attention to that and they understand.   
ANTHONY MARKS: He's one of the biggest competitors I've ever met.  And coaching a group of guys, because I know that locker room, those are some of the most competitive players I've ever played with.  And to get a mixture of that kind of coach with these kind of players, it's really special.   
It makes it fun.  We go to practice, he's out there trying to strike us out during BP.  We get in little battles.  I mean, he loves what he does and makes it fun for us to play the game of baseball.  He is the epitome of Coastal Carolina.   
And I think the best compliment we could give him is that ever since I've been at Coastal, and there's not too many people this happens for, but when Coach Gilmore walks into a room, all silence; he gets everyone's full attention.  That's respect that you earn.  That's not given.  That is respect that you earn.   
And he has earned himself that.  And to be able to play for Coach Gilmore is probably one of the best things that ever happened in my life.  I love you to death, Coach.  Thank you so much.   
COACH GILMORE: The feeling is mutual, gentlemen.  And I'll make sure you get extra meal money for all that.  (Laughter).   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  Questions for Coach.   
 Q.  I'll go back to that double in the ninth inning again.  What's going through your mind when you see that ball get down in the corner?  It seemed unbelievable for those of us watching how quickly Marks got on that ball and basically got back in to not even make it a thought to send the runner home?  
COACH GILMORE: I told Drew that when he made that play, I said:  Damn, that was a hell of a play.  And, I mean, actually our ballpark, in the corner, is very similar.  It's real tight.  So he's had an opportunity to dig balls out of the corner all year long.   
And the one thing that we preach and preach and preach, and it doesn't always work out perfect, is if you feel -- I'm a big believer that runners stop if you field the ball correctly and unload the baseball.  And he fielded it clean, wheeled and turned and threw an accurate throw.   
I mean, for me, that was the play of the game.  There's no doubt.  That home run, all that stuff was great, but, I mean, that was an intense moment that any margin of error he has at all, that runner scores and it's a tie game.  And probably we wouldn't be sitting here right now.   
I thought Anthony Marks' play in this entire tournament probably was one of the difference makers in our team, to be honest with you.  I mean, at least offensively for me he was our MVP from Game 1 all the way through.  He played unbelievable.   
And I know you guys -- Baseball America, D-I Baseball, MLB.com, I would love some of you all to help me out, because that young man doesn't deserve to stop playing.  That kid's passion and ability, that kid can play professional baseball.  And I've been screaming at scouts and stuff the last three or four days:  This is ridiculous that this kid didn't get picked up by somebody.  And I hope you all can help me.  Put a little pressure on them.  He needs to play.   
 Q.  Division I baseball might be one of the last few sports where a team from a non-power conference can and will win a national championship.  In that regard, do you feel that your program is carrying the banner for the non-powers?  
COACH GILMORE: I think a lot of people -- all my brothers in arms at the mid-majors, they've been wearing my telephone out the whole week and stuff.  Wear the banner for us.  Show us it can be done.   
And me personally, I don't feel like we've been a mid-major baseball program for a while.  I surely don't tell that to my kids.  I tell them I think we're top four or five ACC-caliber club; that we can play with the SEC at times; that we don't shy away from anyone.  We're mid-major because we're a 10,000-population school and we had one AA football, and you kind of get stigmatized by that.   
But I don't think our play has been mid-major as far as that part.  But hopefully now I think that sleeping giant people told me about 21 years ago has finally awakened.   
 Q.  You were talking about this a little bit the other day.  When you took over the job, you obviously had a lot of obstacles to overcome to get the program to where it is today.  If somebody told you you guys would be competing for a national championship, winning a national championship, would you have believed it at that point?  
COACH GILMORE: To be very honest with you, I thought we had one of the best teams in the country in 2010.   
 Q.  When you took over the program.  
COACH GILMORE: When I took over the team, I was a young guy full of dreams and passion and this and that, whatever.  Thought I could coach my way to a national championship or whatever.  So I tried to sell that mess and found out very quickly we needed really good players as well as coaching a whole lot.   
So it's one of those things where just coming every day and having passion -- I don't play golf.  I don't have any hobbies.  Probably riding bikes just to get away from the rest of the world is probably the only thing my wife and I truly enjoy doing, outside of spending time with my kids.  My hobby is my job.  I love baseball.  I love watching it.  I love coaching it.  I love the relationships you have while you're doing it.   
And there's no place on Earth I would rather be than on a baseball field throwing BP, hitting Fungos, doing whatever.  There's not a better day on the face of the Earth when I can go to the ballpark.  So just use that attitude to sell the kids, and it's amazing.   
The number one thing -- that national championship means the world to me.  But I'll be very honest with you, the most impressive thing for me and throughout this whole thing is we have had well over 100 players that played for me at Coastal.  I've got 25, 30 that played for me at USC Aiken, have spent their money.  It's not cheap to come out here, spend their money to come be a part of this, just to be a part of it.  And some have flown home because they had to go back to work and come back.   
And, I mean, that for me is the most satisfying part of this whole entire journey, is seeing all those faces and they're as proud for us as if they were playing and doing it themselves.  That I will never forget.  And that, honestly, as much as I love this national championship, that part I cherish more than anything.   
 Q.  Was there a specific moment maybe here in Omaha, maybe along the way this season, where you really came to the realization, and maybe even a different moment that this team came to the realization, for you and the team was there a moment where you said:  We can win the national title this season?  
COACH GILMORE: Um, well, when we wiggled out of that mess at LSU in the ninth inning and then turned around and Marks got a walk and stole a base and Paez hits that double, that ball down the line, and you go:  We're going to Omaha.  And you look up and go:  Okay.  We've got Florida and that pitching staff.  You're going:  My gracious.  Going in for one fire into another.   
I think when we won that game against Florida, even though we didn't play well on Tuesday, defensively, I think they knew that we were still okay.  They never faltered.  You look at who we had to beat.  To do this is an incredible feat.  I don't care what team you are.  To go through LSU and then come here, Florida, TCU, Texas Tech, TCU twice, and these guys, three times, it's an incredible journey for any program.   
This for me has to go down as one of the better competitive teams of coming through the hard knocks, the toughest bracket and the whole nine yards.  I don't know that there was just like one moment in our whole journey that kind of turned it around.   
And then, to be honest, I take that back, I think the Saturday when we were -- or it may have been Friday.  I can't remember when the draft was, when we were all -- I'll never forget we had those four or five guys go all in that one day.  We went out and beat LSU that night.  And Owings was the last guy, and we're in the hotel.  I don't know if you all know this about Connor Owings, he only has one kidney that functions and the other at 30 percent.  He'll have to have a kidney transplant from his mother at some point in his life.  It's inevitable.   
So he's been going through that his entire life.  He's got a brother in the Big Leagues that's a very good player.  When he got drafted in the 34th round, you would have thought the roof of that hotel was going to blow off.  It was the most incredible moment for his teammates.  I mean, they were all crying, screaming.   
And we went out and played like champions.  It was like the weight of the world had been taken off the entire group to have all those guys -- Anthony was the only guy that didn't go.  And he had had an okay year for us.  He's played here in the College World Series like he played every day last year.  Last year he was one of the best players in the country.  And I thought he was going to get drafted last year.  Too many people look at his size and this and that.  And that kid means so much to this team and his teammates.   
But I think if there was a moment in time that was the most significant for this group of people, it was that day.  You're a senior, you start seeing all those names called, and it's the 25th round, and then the 30th.  It's starting to go on.  And Connor was the only one that hadn't been taken.  And everyone knows his health stuff.  So, I mean, his ability was way more than a 34th-rounder.   
But I honestly think our team completely relaxed from that point in time.  It was like:  Okay.  Life isn't over if we lose.  So let's just go out and play and win.  And it seemed -- they turned it up a notch.   
 Q.  We were down here so we didn't see it.  But did your guys take the trophy up into the crowd?  And just talk about the support you got from your fans here in Omaha throughout the series.  
COACH GILMORE: It's absolutely incredible to see how many of our fans came.  And the other great part is how many fans we won over.  I mean, in all honesty.  My wife would come back from Fan Fest and say I can't even find you a T-shirt that's teal.  It's all gone.  Everything is gone.  They reordered, and it's wiped out.  It's been really neat.   
But our people that spent money and time to come out here to be with us, to support us, it's unbelievable.  And I know from the ESPN guys, they were telling me that absolute mayhem in Myrtle Beach and Conway.  That's the most incredible day of my life, absolutely, no doubt about it.   
 Q.  Two-pronged question.  First off, going into the season, did you think that this would be your best team at the end?  And the second part, what actor would play your role in the movie of your life?  
COACH GILMORE: I'll tell you who my wife wants to play.  Honestly, we went into this season, I honestly thought we had an outstanding starting pitching staff.  And as it unfolded early, just a couple of things didn't work out.  Tyler Poole gets a stress fracture in his back.  Pitching really good for us.  Never could get him back.  A couple other kids we really thought were professional-caliber pitchers just never could get it to work.   
And that was about the time about 15, 18 games in, started having to pitch Beckwith more as a starter and kind of solidify our staff a little bit and give us a chance at least on Friday night to use him and Cunningham and stuff to get later in some games.   
But, I mean, going into it, I was very encouraged.  I didn't think we were where we were in just sheer talent in 2010, but I thought we were probably the second most talented team I had coached at Coastal Carolina at that point in time.   
And, I mean, as far as who would play me, my wife would say there's only one that would be Kevin Costner.  (Laughter).  If I go with anybody else, I'll be in trouble.   
 Q.  Could you talk about the decision and what went into it to start Beckwith today after you were going to go with Cunningham if the game had been played last night?  With Bobby Holmes, was it a situation you would only be able to get a bat or two out of him?  Why was his appearance so brief today?  
COACH GILMORE: I mean, seemed like every situation as far as with Bobby that we have put him in in the last two or three weeks has been like massive high stress.  And just felt like matching up-wise he's way better against righties than he is lefties.  And also they had seen him some.   
So I told Drew, we talked about it last night, we stayed up fairly late last night, just kind of staring at the walls, to be honest with you, sitting there going:  Huh, they've kind of played their hand with their lineup.  So we know they're going to stack a ton of lefties against Beckwith.   
And Beckwith's season numbers against lefties hasn't been that great, yet probably the last month has been significantly better.  And I told Drew, I said, Well, bottom line, I see both sides of it.  I said, Last night we were on borrowed time.  We were going to try to get two innings, maybe three out of Cunningham and go to Beckwith.  And basically let him have it.  Win, lose, or draw.   
And I told him, I said, Since this thing got rained out, I just feel like for me personally the way he has -- the way Beckwith has pitched, he deserves the opportunity to go out.  And if we get beat, we get beat with our guy on the mound.  And if he can get us to the sixth or seventh, if he's in trouble, if it's a good situation, let's use Bobby to get us out and give A.C. an opportunity to have a clean inning, come walking into the game with nobody on and kind of basically it's almost like being a starting pitcher.   
And that's ultimately how it played out.  And I think A.C. would have been fine if somebody had been on base, but it was nice for him to come in in that situation and have a little bit of wiggle room where it wasn't, okay, one bad pitch and the game's tied or something.  Because we haven't put him in that situation all year, that type of situation.   
My last comment, please, especially for the area newspapers, the Concord Group that sponsored us, most incredible people I've ever been around.  Our time here has been unbelievable.  The Midwest fan that we have here in Omaha is as fine a fan and greatest supporting baseball fans I've ever been around.   
I would have said this had we lost.  This has been the most incredible experience for my players, my families, all of us involved at Coastal Carolina.  Just the sincere love and enthusiasm and passion for the game that they have in this area and here in Omaha is incredible.   
Whether I ever get back here or not again, I just want to tell them thank you.  It's such a breath of fresh air to come to the ballpark and hear people cheer and they don't say mean things to you.  They actually enjoy watching the game and they pull for you, pull for both teams.  It's the most incredible experience of my life.  And I would love to thank everyone here in Omaha.   
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT