SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2008
Dean Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DAVE SENKO: Dean, thanks for joining us.
 Just maybe just get us started, talk about your day other than 18, the bogey you had, six birdies and 67.
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah. I'm going to have a hard time remembering some of the holes, but I got off to a good start, and I birdied the first two holes of the day. So that was good, and I just kind of plodded along and had another string of birdies there at 11 through 13. And, you know, nice playing well on the back nine because that wind started to kick up and makes it a little tough out there.
 DAVE SENKO: Where did you really start feeling the effects of the wind, just at the start or was there --
DEAN WILSON: Just right towards the end. As soon as we got to about, I guess at the turn, at 10. As soon as we turned into that hole, I knew the wind was blowing and, you know, it was going to be a different story than the front nine for sure.
 DAVE SENKO: Okay. How about your birdies? Do you remember your shot sequence on 1 and 2?
 DEAN WILSON: No. 1, hit a driver and 8-iron in there to about 12 feet, made that 8-iron. No. 2, hit a 6-iron to about maybe 6 feet and made that.

 Q. 7?
 DEAN WILSON: 7, par 3, hit an 8-iron to about 5 feet and made that.
 DAVE SENKO: 11, 12, 13?
 DEAN WILSON: 11, hit a 6-iron in there and made a pretty good length putt, maybe about 20 feet. Next hole hit a wedge in there about 7 feet and made that. Par 5 made about a 15-footer.
 DAVE SENKO: Then 18?
 DEAN WILSON: Hit a bad drive in the bunker on the right there and trying to hit it towards the right side of the green and pulled it, caught the hill and went down in the water and good up and down to save bogey there.
 DAVE SENKO: Okay. Questions?

 Q. You did remember them all pretty good.
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah. I got to look at the sheet, though.

 Q. You've been playing well of late. Anything spark this stretch?
 DEAN WILSON: Well, I had a good run last week and the rest of the week kind of limped in. I was just trying to get a little more control of my emotions. I've been getting a little upset out there. Just trying to stay in the game, not check myself out emotionally.

 Q. Getting more into the result, getting ahead of yourself?
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah. It's tough out here. I'm practicing a lot and working on my game, and if I hit some bad shots or terrible shots, you know, it's easy to get discouraged. I think that's been what's been getting on me. And so I've been struggling of late driving the golf ball, and so, of course, I go work on it. And if I go out and drive the golf ball poorly again, then I kind of get on myself. But that doesn't help. Just got to stay in there and everybody hits bad drives and just -- you can still make -- I made some birdies from some bad drives today, and you can still do that.

 Q. Are you working with somebody, or you just doing it on your own?
 DEAN WILSON: What is that?

 Q. Just the mental approach, are you working with Rotella or anybody like that? Just trying to calm yourself down?
 DEAN WILSON: Exactly.

 Q. So is there anything you're trying to tell yourself or using it to kind of get yourself out of the psychological rut?
 DEAN WILSON: No. Just don't get upset.

 Q. Is that all it takes?
 DEAN WILSON: That's it, I think. Just stay in there and, you know, I've proven to myself, I think this year, that when I get upset, it doesn't help me whatsoever. All it does is hurt me. So I know if I don't get upset, I can only -- it can only help me. I can only -- it's not going to get worse.
 So, you know, it really helped me today on that last hole. The last place I need to hit that approach shot is left. I'm aiming towards the right side of the green, catches the hill and goes in the water. But I feel like I stayed in there and just -- maybe if I hit it on the right side of the green or in the right green side bunker, I might still make bogey. Still have a chance of making bogey, just flip the thing up and make the putt. I did. I walk away making a bogey rather than a double. 
 And I think easily last month that would have been a double. I would have been upset at the shot. Just throw that thing out there 20 feet on the green and 2-putt and concentrate on being upset. That wouldn't have been good.

 Q. Is that all that a function of higher expectations because you've had success?
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah, I think so. I don't know. There's so many things -- we're always out trying to improve, and I've gotten off to a slow start so far this year. So maybe it's having expectations. Maybe it's just want to go play good. It's a battle of continually wanting to improve.
 So, show me a guy that doesn't get upset -- what's the saying? Show me a guy that likes to lose, and I'll show you a loser. We're all trying to get better.

 Q. Is this a golf course that you like or --
DEAN WILSON: It's the first time I've been on the course. I've played the Shell Houston Open on the other course, and I really like this course. I think it's beautiful. It's the best manicured course we've played all year. I think it's wonderful how it's set up. It's set up fair. You can put pins in places where it really tests your approach shots and tests your mental game, if you want to take a chance and go right at it.
 I think it's just a wonderful course.

 Q. You play pretty well and then you still behind at 9-under.
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah. When you're dealing with one of those guys in the Top-10 or Top-5 like Adam, they're great players. Obviously he has a lot of good memories from this course, and I think he's been playing well this year. I think he's already won, and he's obviously feeling good about his game. So we've got our hands full with trying to chase him and spotting him a lead after one round.

 Q. Does it surprise you, just the number with the wind and the conditions out there?
 DEAN WILSON: No. It doesn't matter the conditions out here. Always seems like someone goes low. This course is in such good shape. It's a course that rewards good shots. So, guys that are on their game like Adam obviously was today, you know, he's probably firing at some pins and feeling good and the greens will hold and he can score. 
 And so no, it doesn't surprise me. He got a lot of birdies, the majority of them on the front nine. The back nine was a little tougher with the wind.
 DAVE SENKO: Everyone okay? Thank you, Dean.
 DEAN WILSON: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT