EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2006
Dean Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Dean Wilson, thanks for joining us hereafter a first round 3 under 67 on the Cottonwood Valley course.  Start with some opening comments on a good day for you.  Scores seem a little bit higher than in the past, but it's pretty windy out there today.
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, really windy.  It looks like they've brought the fairways in a little more than usual and the rough is up.  With the wind, hitting fairways is really difficult out there.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Just as far as getting off to a good start, you certainly can't win the tournament today but you can kind of shoot yourself out of it.  Just talk about your mindset heading into Friday.
DEAN WILSON:  Well, it's nice to get a good round under my belt the first day.  It seems like I've struggled here in the past a little bit.  Going into tomorrow, same thing, anything can happen.  With the wind up and the rough up, you could make a bogey on every hole if you don't get it in the fairway.  The old cliche, one shot at a time.  You've got to fight that wind and keep battling out there.
Q.  For a while you were playing almost every week.  Did you like that, playing a lot like that?  Were you trying to be the ironman this year?
DEAN WILSON:  No, I wasn't trying to do anything.  I think I've only missed one tournament this year, the Houston Open.  But I'm excited with the things that I'm trying to accomplish with my game, and being out here is good for my game, to keep working on it rather than go home and take some time off.  Even the week I stayed away, I really worked hard and hit a lot of balls, trying to clean me swing up a little bit.

That helps where I don't have to go and perform so I can concentrate on maybe mechanics for three, four straight days and I don't have to worry about trying to score and I don't have to worry about the shots going all over the place.  I can just try to grind something in there.
Q.  Was that a decision you made before the season?  Was it a different approach?
DEAN WILSON:  No, I just play it by ear.  I commit to everything, and then I just play it by ear.  I'm not married, I don't have any responsibilities at home, so I can just keep doing whatever I want, and that's what my plan has been.
Q.  What was the toughest part about today?  Was it the wind?  You talked about the fairways seemed narrower to you.  Was it significantly tougher?
DEAN WILSON:  It seemed like it to me out there playing a practice round on Monday.  I played yesterday in the Pro Am out on the TPC course.  The fairways    the rough is really high, and then with this wind out there you've really got to have control of the golf ball and make good decisions and commit to them and let the wind bring it back because it's weird aiming out of fairways into trees and trusting that the wind is going to bring it back.  You can't figure out exactly what the wind is doing every time.  You have an idea, but you don't know if it's really that strong or what.
Q.  Was driving accuracy key today?
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, probably.  I hit a lot of fairways.  I don't know how many I missed, but I put a lot of shots in the fairways, and then from there getting them on the greens and just having kind of relaxing pars.  Playing with Robert today, I think he maybe parred five of the first six holes, and he was like, man, I haven't had one easy par yet, and I thought about it, and it's like, yeah, it's tough.  If you hit it in the rough, you're chasing it around.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  If we could just touch on your round real quick, and then if anybody has a final question we'll take that.  Parred your first five holes, then birdied No. 6.
DEAN WILSON:  Actually felt like I was 2 under par after three holes because No. 1 and No. 3 are straight into the wind.  I hit woods into both those greens and made pars there.

I birdied 6, I can't think of the hole right now.  Oh, short hole.  I hit a nice approach in there about 10, 12 feet, made that putt.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  What did you hit in there?
DEAN WILSON:  I hit a 7 iron, a 3 wood off the tee and a little right and not very strong, so left myself a long ways.

Bogeyed 10, another drive in the rough and didn't get it on the green and didn't get it up and down.

No. 11, I hit a good drive and a nice 3 wood in there and rolled in a putt for an eagle.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  How far was that eagle putt?
DEAN WILSON:  About 18 feet maybe.

Then another birdie on 13, two holes later.  I hit a 7 iron in there again really close to about three feet and made that.

Birdie on 16, hit a good drive and had a 5 iron in and just hit it to the center of the green and two putted.  That hole is playing downwind, par 5.

17, bogeyed there, hit it in the bunker and didn't get it up and down.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  As far as the wind, was there a prevailing wind or was it kind of swirling?
DEAN WILSON:  It seems like it's coming out of the same direction.  When you're down in the trees, it moves around and you kind of get disoriented so you have to trust what the map says, so I just tried to do that, and it seemed like it worked.
Q.  You hit woods to two par 4s; is that right?
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, No. 1 and No. 3.
Q.  Was that a result of the wind being against you?
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah.  Well, No. 3 is a par 5 converted to a par 4, so all of us have a long ways in there.

The 1st hole, I had 215 yards into the green but straight into the wind.  I hit a 5 wood in there and hit a good one to about 20 feet.
Q.  And then on 3 did you hit a 5 wood again?
DEAN WILSON:  3 wood.  I barely got it on the front of the green.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Dean Wilson, thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT