VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 23, 2005
Dean Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Dean, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Valero Texas Open.  Great start to the week, and you were in this position last year, ended up with your best finish of your career.  I know you want to turn it into something pretty special this week.  Just talk about the day out there.  Did you notice it getting a little windier as the day went on?
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, it was a little windy starting the day and I think it just kind of stayed there, constant, all day.  Maybe the last couple holes I felt some wind coming up, so maybe getting a little bit of that hurricane weather coming up.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Talk about your three birdies finishing up.
DEAN WILSON:  On 7, laid up off the tee, left myself 120 yards and hit it to about ten feet, made that putt.

On 8, I hit a 3 wood off the tee and had maybe about 133 yards, I think, hit that to about five feet and made that.

Last hole, had the same thing, 120 yards, and hit that to about three feet.
Q.  They're expecting a lot of wind tomorrow.  With your lead right now, do you expect the scores to not get too much lower than they already are if it gets to 25, 30 miles an hour?
DEAN WILSON:  I'm sure it will keep going lower.  It seems like no matter what the weather is, there's so many good players out here, the scores just keep getting lower and lower.  I think you've always got to expect it to go lower.
Q.  You obviously have good memories just coming back here, good finish last year; kind of just a mental boost for you?
DEAN WILSON:  I guess so.  Coming into the week, I remembered that I played well here last year, and fortunately I remembered a lot of the shots that I played and my strategy, so I'm kind of going about the same thing this year and fortunately I'm playing well.
Q.  Do you like the course?  It fits you?
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, I guess so.  Some of the courses are really long and the big hitters have a good advantage, and out here it seems like maybe it evens it out a little.
Q.  Maybe it fits your eye or you like the way it's shaped?
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah.
Q.  Coming into this week, is this a surprise that you're putting together a couple good rounds like this?  Do you feel like you were due for something like this?
DEAN WILSON:  It seems like the last month or so I've thrown in a good round and a bad round, so I've had some glimpses of decent golf, and it feels nice to get a couple of good rounds in here.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Talk about playing in the wind.  Obviously I would think you're probably pretty familiar with that.
DEAN WILSON:  Being from Hawaii, yes.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  So you're probably pretty comfortable in that circumstance?
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, it would seem like it.  I guess growing up, yes.  On most of the courses it doesn't bother me too much, so I kind of have an idea of what the ball is going to do out there.
Q.  Did you come in    a lot of guys are used to this tournament to try to secure their player status or to secure their Top 60 status or Top 30.  They've got other motives besides    did you come in with an additional motive?
DEAN WILSON:  Well, I guess the first priority for me is the Top 25.  I think I'm 110th or 111th now.  I know I just need a pretty decent week from here on out, so hopefully I can get that done this week and have a good round tomorrow and concentrate on trying to win the golf tournament on Sunday.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  You secured your position here last year.
DEAN WILSON:  No, I didn't.  Well, I made a big jump but I ended up finishing outside the Top 125 I played so bad before this tournament.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT