BUICK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 26, 2005
Dean Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Dean Wilson for stopping in today after a round of 66.  Last few months, you've posted all three of your Top 10's coming off of a T 9, you seem to have your game together at this point in the season.
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, it's coming together a little bit.  I had a bunch of missed cuts there, too, but a couple of good rounds, too.
TODD BUDNICK:  You started the day with a birdie.
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, pretty uneventful.  I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens and rolled in a few putts.  4 gave me trouble; I think I bogeyed it today and tripled it yesterday.  Made five birdies on the back there and blasted around a bit the first three holes on my back side and ran into that problem on 4.
Q.  Talk about the momentum, getting on a roll for just a minute and then starting over.
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, it's a bit discouraging, but I knew that was the first round, there's a lot of holes to go.  So for some reason, I was still calm, it didn't upset me too much.  I just know that this course, there's a couple of holes out there that can jump up and bite you.  You've just got to try to learn how to stay a little more patient and not get too upset and ahead of myself.
Q.  How is the course playing?
DEAN WILSON:  Today it's a little softer.  I don't know if that's because I'm in the morning compared to yesterday in the afternoon, and the wind blew all day yesterday to dry the course out.  But this morning it was soft, and I think it's going to stay pretty soft for those guys this afternoon.
Q.  What did you hit on the par 5?
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, the par 5, there's no wind out there today, so I hit a good drive and I had 230 to the front, 250 to the hole and that was right in between my 3 wood and 5 wood.  I chose a 5 wood and hit a pretty good one, missed the green a little to the right there.  It's guarded by that mound over there on right and that's not the place you want to miss it.
Q.  After the majors, do a lot of the players, maybe you can include yourself, do a lot of the players look at this like open season, a chance to really break through and get a couple of wins here, because some of the players with their schedules, they take time off and play a limited schedule?
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, I guess so.  I didn't play in any of the majors, so I didn't have to think about that.  But I think in my situation just trying to stay in that (Top) 125, and also, I do think about that and some of the tournaments where Vijay, Tiger and those guys aren't here.  Because with those guys, you automatically finish fourth, so I'm jumping up a few spots.
Q.  So is it an opportunity that players can take advantage of?
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, those other tournaments like I'm thinking of, Memorial, they are such powerful players on courses like that.  And some of these courses like this one, I think it's good for me because it's not a bomber's course so to speak where some guys just get up and hit driver all the time.  It's a position course and I always favor those for my game.
Q.  What happened on 4?
DEAN WILSON:  Yesterday I chose the wrong line and then to top it off, I chose a line that was maybe ten yards too far left and then I pulled it another ten.  And ended up    chipped it out and I should have just from there hit it on the green, but I compounded it by hitting a very bad third shot.  And then I put myself in a position that was    which is really difficult just to chip it on the green, just the way they had the pin and the mounding.

So I was back left, the pin was front right, and ended up chipping it over the green and making a mess of it.  But today I drove it nicely there and just hit a bad second shot in there and missed it right, down in the hill and didn't get it up and down.
Q.  Do you still get recognized for playing with Annika at Colonial a lot?
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, still get it a lot.  Every time I'm with you guys, for sure.  But yeah, still get it a lot.  I think everyone recognizes me for that, so I can hear things in the crowd, "There's the guy that played with Annika," which is fine by me.
Q.  What did you take out of that?
DEAN WILSON:  There's just a lot of people following us, a lot of media attention.  If you are ever worried about the spotlight being on you, that's a great experience.  I had that spotlight on me for 36 holes, and then talking to you guys every day after the round and being asked about it nonstop, and I think that that was a great experience, so it's nothing but a positive for me.

Oh, and yeah, I played good and I had a pretty good tournament.
Q.  Not to belabor the point, but do you need to win before you can be known    inaudible?
DEAN WILSON:  I'd rather be known as the guy that won a tournament than the guy that played with Annika.  It doesn't bother me, but I guess I have to do something    I have to win.  That's the only way they are going to forget about that.  But I'm not looking for them to forget it, either.
Q.  Inaudible?
DEAN WILSON:  I don't know.  The tournament, probably not.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your birdies today.
DEAN WILSON:  My approach shot, I hit it about a foot and a half from the hole, so that was a no brainer.  I hit a 7 iron.

No. 9, I drove it in the fairway bunker and had 115 yards.  Hit a wedge out, another close one, maybe three feet.

11, I hit 8 iron on the green to about 20 feet.

15, I drove it in the high, in the rough.

17, I hit 3 wood, 7 iron and another maybe 16, 18 footer.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT