BANK OF AMERICA COLONIAL
May 22, 2003
Dean Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Dean, how was it?
DEAN WILSON:   Great day.  A little bit of a circus with so many people.  That's the first experience for me with all that.  But great experience playing with Annika.  She played fantastic.  I was really impressed with her game.  She hit the ball a little farther than I thought she would.  She hit the ball a lot, very accurate.  I knew she was accurate, but it was great to see.  I just really admired the way she held herself and the way she played the course.  She played the course the best way that she could.  She didn't try to cut any corners or take drivers when she shouldn't.  She just played to her strength the whole day and it worked out great for her.

Q.  Can you imagine the pressure she was feeling before the first shot down here?
DEAN WILSON:   Yeah, I talked to her a little bit.  I knew she was really nervous.  And who is not going to be nervous with all this media around following her?  I'm nervous and I'm just a part of it.  She just handled herself great.  I really admire her.

Q.  Did you shoot better than her?
DEAN WILSON:  We tied.  Luckily. 
(Laughter.) I had to work for it too, boy. 

Q.  Were you worried about that a little bit?
DEAN WILSON:   Oh, no.  I was out playing my game.  I'm trying to play the best that I can play.  Yeah, I'm kind of looking at her score also, but she just played so good all the way around and I knew she wasn't going to make too many mistakes.  And she got unfortunate on the last hole, hit a great shot, a little through the green and had a sticky kind of a lie.  Other than that, she played great golf. 

Q.  Did you find yourself rooting for her?
DEAN WILSON:   Oh, yeah.  Like I said before, I'm all for her playing.  I'll all for seeing great golf.  And she plays golf at a level that's fantastic.  Just the way she goes about her business and hits the shots so solidly and she just plays great. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
DEAN WILSON:  Well, no, probably not.  We're just so busy going about our own business and I'm watching, I guess I was cheering for her and hoping that some of the putts would drop for her and that she would hit some good solid shots and she did. 

Q.  Can you tell us what you were talking about?
DEAN WILSON:   Just anything that came up.  We're the same age, went to college at the same time.  I met her once in college way back when.  And she doesn't remember and I barely remember it too.  We just acted like any other people going for a round of golf. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
DEAN WILSON:  Yeah, I just told her, oh, I was just so proud of her.  Just the way she handled herself, the way she obviously played with all the attention that she's been getting this week and it's just been a circus for her, just I knew once she got inside the ropes she would be in her element.  She could concentrate on her game and so that's all I said at the end.  I just told her I was proud of her and I can't wait to go at it again tomorrow.

Q.  Do you think she can make the cut tomorrow?
DEAN WILSON:  Definitely.  There's absolutely no reason why she can't.  I think she's such a good player.  If she just had a few more putts drop in today, if that would have happened, she would be under par on an easy. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
DEAN WILSON:  I really didn't.  We had to wait every once in a while for the photographers to get in position and I was a little afraid that we might fall behind, but no, it didn't bother me. 

Q.  Was there any particular shots she hit?
DEAN WILSON:  No, I was particularly impressed with the way she hit her driver.  There was one shot she hit on 3 where we're taking off a big chunk of the corner there and I've got 7, 8-iron in there and she's way back and I thought she hit a 3-wood but she hit a 7-wood.  Boy, she hit it 10 feet, something like that.  Right at it.  Pin's tucked front left.  And luckily I hit it nine feet.  I was happy. 
(Laughter.) Everything about her game and the way she held herself  her professionalism impressed me.  There's a lot to learn from watching her play golf. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
DEAN WILSON:  I think she missed one fairway.  She missed three greens.  Geez, two of them just -- all three of them actually by just barely rolling over.  And unfortunately on the last hole she had a bad lie.  But, yeah, she, technically she played great.  The only difference -- I can't say it's the best round I've ever seen because with some of these guys they're so powerful they're launching at such a high angle they can stop the ball so well and attack the pins that I tell you what, I am just impressed with how she plays and what she does with her game and her abilities.  It's fantastic. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
DEAN WILSON:  I'm sure she was.  She did.  She hit a great tee shot there and she hit a nice iron shot.  I mean it's probably only landed five feet away from the hole.  And I saw where her ball finished.  It was laying against grass going the wrong way and I was wondering what she was going to do, if she was going to chip it or putt it just because it was so difficult.  But, yeah, I could tell she was disappointed.  I bet if she had that number at even par, it would be a lot more satisfying for her. 

Q.  Has what you saw today changed at all from what you expected to see today?
DEAN WILSON:   You know, I didn't really have any expectations.  I was excited to see her.  I knew how good of a player she is.  I knew how accurate she was.  I was just impressed.  I was really impressed with the way she played the game. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT