RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2010
Dean Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: All right. Well, Dean Wilson, thanks for joining us for a few minutes. 65 certainly seems to be the number of the week, your third consecutive 65 here at the RBC Canadian Open. Obviously a wet day, long day. Just some comments. You know, you commented that you were the sponsor invite you made the last one in. You just gotta be elated as you're heading into the final round.
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah, exactly. Getting that sponsor invite and knowing I would have a tee time on Monday really helped. 
 I've gotten into a couple of events, the John Deere and Hartford on Thursday morning. And you wake up so early, you get there and you don't know when you're going to tee off, or if you're going to tee off. So I really appreciate that. So far, so good.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. We know you want to get some rest. We'll just go ahead and open it up for some questions. 

 Q. It looked like (no microphone).
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah, definitely. Any time you can get it in the fairway, I'm happy. I'll have a smile on my face. So yeah, again, a nice tee shot there knowing that I'm going to be able to get it uphill of the green felt good, and then getting the 4-iron up there nice and rolling in the putt was a nice way to end the day.

 Q. Yesterday you said you hadn't had a lead on a PGA TOUR event, but you're going to sleep like a baby because you're really tired. How do you think tonight will be going home up 4 going into the final round?
 DEAN WILSON: Hopefully I'm going to sleep again. I slept well last time. Anytime I have a late tee time, it feels good. Those ones where I have to tee off at 7:00 or something on Thursday or Friday is tough to get some good sleep, but hopefully I'll be okay tonight.

 Q. Do you expect any difference in your routine being ahead being a position that you're probably not that familiar with?
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah. No. I'm going to do the same old thing. You know, I'd love to go and hit some balls, but the blew the horn. So I'll just go home, dry off, get some dinner and rest up, get ready for tomorrow.

 Q. You seemed to handle the rain really well today. It was raining pretty hard when you made your move there on 10 and 11. 
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah. Another day in Hawaii; right? 
 Yeah, you know, you just can't fight it. You know that it's going to be there. You can't complain about it, and you just gotta be a little tougher than the rain. 
 I've got a good caddy on my bag, and he's helping me keep everything dry, and we got good organization. I think that really helps.

 Q. A year ago at this time you said you were approaching 40. You said you thought you had your best golf to play in your career. Do you feel like you're playing your best right now? And you doubted yourself as you went through some trouble. 
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah. For sure I doubted myself. I always feel like I can improve and get better. 
 And you know, last year didn't work out as planned. Didn't play as well as I wanted to. Fought a tiny bit of injuries. I'm not making an excuse, but it's hard to -- when your back hurts a little bit, and maybe I'll try to rest. I love to practice. I love to play and practice, and started to get into my attitude where I started to get a bad attitude, and you can't have that on TOUR when you're fighting every week. 
 So last year didn't turn out so good, and I'm a little more appreciative of getting in tournaments and playing and being out here and fighting and being in the battle. So yeah, that time away makes you think about, you know, what you don't have. And sometimes when you're playing, every guy goes through it, you're playing tournament after tournament after tournament and things don't go your way, awe, I've got next week. You know, I don't have next week. So I've gotta take advantage of the rounds that I have, and I think that's my attitude now and I think it's a lot better.

 Q. You mentioned that it's been difficult at times, you don't know when you're going to play. Did you have any sense that when you got the invite on Monday that this might a year that you might be able to shoot three 65s?
 DEAN WILSON: You know, I don't know. I didn't expect it. I was hoping for it, and kind of going off some of the stories that's been happening on TOUR, with Matt Bettencourt winning last week. You know, he wasn't playing his best; he was missing some cuts and he wins. And Bob Heintz wasn't playing too well and he was up there. 
 So I tried to talk myself into it, say, hey, I've got it. Just give me the chance; and if these guys can do it, I can do it, too. And just keep fighting, and that's the great thing about golf. You know, anything can happen. 
 No one expected Louis to win the British Open, but he just mowed over everybody and played great golf, and you never know when it's going to happen, so you just have to keep fighting and stick to it. 

 Q. When was the last time you were in this position? And can you share any similarities between the two?
 DEAN WILSON: You know, I don't even really know. I think any tournament that I won, I don't know if I had the lead. I think I was near it. I'm pretty sure I didn't have the lead.

 Q. One back maybe?
 DEAN WILSON: Couple points back or something. I know I've had the lead at the Valero Texas Open, and that's about it. 
 And you just gotta go off your instinct, go off memories. I played well when I won in Japan six times, and any time you can get any kind of win under your belt, it helps. 
 And you know, for me at the time over there, they were huge wins for me. And I was as nervous as I could get, and even playing state opens and things before I got on TOUR, I needed to win those tournaments to keep going, and I was as nervous as I could be; so I bank on those memories and try to keep pushing forward. 

 Q. There was a lot of talk at the beginning of the week of how tough this golf course was going to play. Obviously three 65s doesn't make it look like it played all that difficult. Are the low scores representative at all of the quality of the golf course or does it change your perspective on it?
 DEAN WILSON: No. 

 Q. No?
 DEAN WILSON: No. This golf course is a great golf course. It's a great test of golf. With the rain's softening up the course, those balls are landing on the green and stopping. 
 And even when you're hitting it down the fairway, they're not rolling through the fairway. And if it was really firm, the ball could just keep rolling. And I think that's how they meant to play it. 
 Unfortunately they got some of the weather. But it presents a whole different set of problems, too, on difficulty that you have to overcome. So this course is a great test, and Tim and I talked about it and David Feherty, where has this course been hiding. It's a great course, and I haven't heard one bad thing about it, just nothing but positives. 

 Q. What do you think if things get firmer, if we maybe get some sun tomorrow, a bit of a breeze, is this going to be a much tougher golf course?
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah. If somehow it firms up. I don't know how it's going to firm up. It's pretty wet out there, and the forecast doesn't look like it's going to all of a sudden turn sunny and dry. But if the wind kicks up, it may be a little different. Now it's going to be a little tougher to get the balls in the fairways and a little tougher to get them close to the pins. So we'll just see what we get tomorrow.

 Q. Have you felt any nerves this week yet?
 DEAN WILSON: Oh, definitely. Yeah, I'm nervous on the first tee, nervous before I warm up. Hopefully I feel good. 
 If you're not nervous, you're not there. And so I think everybody feels it and you just kind of fight through it. And it's actually exciting. If I wasn't nervous, it wouldn't be exciting. I would just be at home sitting on a cart going around with my friends playing for two bucks. It wouldn't be as fun as this. 

 Q. There's a lot riding tomorrow for you, obviously with the exemptions and everything, too. Will you allow yourself to think about all that stuff?
 DEAN WILSON: Well, hopefully I can put it off. I know exactly what it means. I've been real good this week at taking one shot at a time, and my caddy's been helping me do that and that's all I can do. I can't keep thinking ahead. And just keep focusing. 
 This course, it's so tough and you gotta get on the fairway, so it makes it a little easy to focus on one individual shot at a time. 

 Q. Between now and tee-off time, what's on your schedule?
 DEAN WILSON: You know what, I'm beat. This weather is killing me, so I'm going to go have some dinner and relax. I'm 40 years old. I know how to take care of myself, and just sleep through and get ready for tomorrow. 

 Q. With the wet conditions today, do you expect to have ball in hand tomorrow?
 DEAN WILSON: Probably not. I think -- we don't want to do that. They want to keep it so you just play it as it lies. I don't know what the forecast is for tonight or tomorrow. But you know, it's a little soppy out there, but the mud isn't sticking to the ball. 
 Again, there's some mud in here and there, but if we don't get a torrential downpour overnight or in the morning, we should be okay. 
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Dean, congratulations. Good luck going into tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT