RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2010
Dean Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LAURY LIVSEY: We welcome Dean Wilson into the interview room. Shot a 5-under 65, made a nice putt on 18 to take care of things. Talk about your round a little bit and your closing holes.
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah. Closing hole I hit a bad drive and paid the price. You know, I couldn't do anything with that lie. So just had to get it on the fairway as far as I could. Left myself some good yardage. 
 Hit a nice wedge shot in there and landed pin high, but it spun back a lot. But fortunate to get that 25-footer in. So nice way to finish off the day.
 LAURY LIVSEY: You gotta like your position going into the weekend.
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah. Can't ask for a better position. So I'm happy the way I've been playing. Been missing a few cuts, so it's nice to get in contention and get in the mix. So it just feels nice to have a little bit of control over my game.
 LAURY LIVSEY: Questions? 

 Q. Can you tell us what's been working so well for you?
 DEAN WILSON: My ball striking has been a lot better. I had a good session with my teachers, Andy Plummer and Mike Bennett, and they worked hard with me on the Tuesday, Wednesday. And it carried over and struck the ball -- hit the ball a lot better than I have been. 
 So I've been able to play and grind out those par putts when I needed them. And the course is so tough out here, you're going to pay for that. So I'm glad I've been able to do that.

 Q. You've obviously won before on the PGA TOUR, but it's been a couple of years. A lot of the other guys on top of the leaderboard either haven't won or haven't won in a while. For the layman why is it so difficult to get those wins on the PGA TOUR?
 DEAN WILSON: It's just tough. There's so many good players, and it's tough to break through. Once you get your game up there and you're playing well and at the top of the leaderboard is one step and being able to handle the pressure and sleep with the lead or just feel comfortable doing it. 
 It just takes a lot of experience, and it seems like we got a bunch of guys now, Tiger, Phil, Vijay, they know how to do it. They just keep winning, so it's harder to get the first-time win. 
 But it seems like of late this year and a little bit last year a lot of guys have been breaking through, so it's nice to see.

 Q. How are you going to sleep with the lead?
 DEAN WILSON: Oh, I'll sleep like a baby. I'm pretty tired. You know, I've never had the lead on the PGA TOUR. Maybe I have, in Texas. So I think I'll be okay. 
 You know, I was able to win in Japan, and when I've got myself in contention here on TOUR, I've been able to get one win. So I'm comfortable with it. I mean I'm excited. I want to be in contention. I want to be up there, so I'm excited for the weekend.

 Q. The bottom line on this course is that you just simply have to get it in the fairway.
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah, definitely. You know, you have to get it in the fairway. When you're hitting it in the -- if you hit it in the rough, you're fighting for par. 
 But like I did on the last hole, you chip out, made a good wedge shot and make a putt or maybe if you somehow get a decent lie and get it up near the green and a chip and a putt. But the way the course is set up, it's a premium on accuracy of ball striking. 
 And again, easier today with ball-in-hand. I think in the afternoon I didn't have any mud on my ball, but once you get your hands on it, you feel a little bit more comfortable.

 Q. From what you saw today, do you think you'll have the ball in hand again tomorrow?
 DEAN WILSON: I don't think so. I don't think any more rain is coming. The officials do a great job, and I'm sure with as much of the rain this morning, they just wanted to err on the side of caution. I think that's always a good play. 
 If you have a tournament where there's mud on the ball, it just makes it miserable. You hit a lot of bad shots. You can't control it when there's mud on the ball. And it's more luck than it is skill. 

 Q. You were on both sides of taking advantage of 9 and 11. 
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah. That par. Yeah. Both of them -- actually, 9, I missed the fairway and laid up, and hit a good wedge in there, but didn't get the putt in. 
 And on 11, I hit another good drive and just had a 5-iron in, but missed the green and had a bad lie chipping. And I didn't even get that chip on the green, so I had to get it up-and-down for par. So yeah, a little misleading, but I was fortunate to get a couple birdies coming in, so I feel good about that. 
 LAURY LIVSEY: Other questions? Dean, thanks for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT