NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 19, 2009
Dean Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DEAN WILSON: Bogeyed last hole. It's a tough hole. Hit a little chip and it caught the grass first, but other than that, real happy with the round. 
 It's a beautiful golf course. I played some good rounds here, and so it's fun to come back. Sometimes I get some good rounds and sometimes I get some bad rounds. It's just a matter of if I can get that driver going, and today was a little better. Hit some good iron shots and some good putts, but for me it's getting that driver.

 Q. The momentum on the first six holes, was that something you were thinking about on the 7th tee?
 DEAN WILSON: No, you're just focusing on one shot at a time. I know that's quite a cliché, but what you need to do -- you have a lot of holes left, and it's just the first round. There's 65 more holes to go. 

 Q. Great start to your round. 
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah, it was nice, birdieing 1, obviously that sets me off in a good frame of mind, and then birdieing 4 is a good birdie. I kind of kept making some birdies. 

 Q. At 9, and duplicated on 18, and you get things going, the par save 9? 
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah, I hit a bad drive on 9 and had a lob-wedge in and missed that shot out of the rough. Kind of mis-played a chip but luckily got the putt to fall in and kept the momentum going.

 Q. No wind, pretty soft, it was about as gettable as it can be today, except for maybe being a little wet in the fairway? 
 DEAN WILSON: Yeah, felt like it was 120 degrees after what we've had the last couple of week, so it was nice being in short sleeves and having the sun out. Yeah, the weather is good today so the guys will go and make some birdies. 

 Q. You've made a ton of cuts --
 DEAN WILSON: It seems just like I said over there, I had some good rounds and some bad rounds. Seems like I have to take the rust off in the off-season and put all four rounds together, and hopefully I can do that. 
 Seems like everybody once in a while, I hit a couple of bad drives, and that seems to get me in trouble, but that's the same for everyone. My irons were really steady today, so hopefully I can build off of that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT