MLB WORLD SERIES: METS v YANKEES
October 21, 2000
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Coach, anybody that thought the hype or the nostalgia was going to overshadow the game sure had a change of opinion there, huh?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, I thought it was a heck of a game.  Two teams that battled their way to get here, battled their way tonight; and we gave them a pretty good run for their money in their home ballpark.  We came up a little short.  They did a good job. 


Q.  What would you say about your team, the base-running mistakes you had tonight?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't think I have to say anything.  You know, I'll evaluate it.  I don't think you'll see any of that again. 


Q.  Could you talk about the chaos, the home run that looked like it was a Zeile home run, it wasn't  -- how you saw that play.

BOBBY VALENTINE: I didn't see it.  I was around the corner, and I was watching Timo.  When Timo kind of broke down running there, I figured it was a home run.  He did, too.  It wasn't.  It's a game of inches, huh?  O'Neill's ball, I thought it was going to stay in play.  It went out of play.  I thought Todd's ball was way out of play, and it stayed in play.  Kind of interesting. 


Q.  The play where Pratt held at third I guess in the seventh, was that just cautious on his part, or was it a mistake?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, I think he thought the pitcher had a shot at the ball.  So he hesitated right there.  Once it got by the pitcher, he's not the fastest guy in the world, and he stayed at third. 


Q.  How would you evaluate Armando tonight? Just didn't have his best stuff or didn't have his control?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, I thought he had his control.  He just missed getting O'Neill out, then he got a couple singles.  He did a good job in hitting Polonia and Vizcaino. 


Q.  What happens to the overall strategy, your strategy, having used so many players tonight?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, we came in with very little World Series experience, and we got a lot of it in one night.  So... (Laughter.)  We're doing a good job in the experience category. 


Q.  Does it hurt that a National League player like Vizcaino got four hits against you? There's a guy you know pretty well. 

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, I guess it doesn't hurt.  We try and get him out, and he hit some pitches early in the count, and he's gotten some hits before.  He got a lot of hits tonight. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT