NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v CARDINALS
October 15, 2000
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  I don't know if you saw the comments Edgardo made yesterday, it sounded like he said,  "We almost gave up." What are your thoughts?

BOBBY VALENTINE: That's not what he said, you shouldn't say that.  He said it was a different feeling, and it was a different feeling.  We were behind 2-0 at the beginning; the other games we were ahead at the first inning.  There was a little crescendo there in the fourth inning where things kind of switched back and forth in a quick way.  We didn't seize the moment.  After that, we had a few lousy at-bats, so we didn't look good. 


Q.  When a guy has a game the way that Jones had the other day, sort of the game of his life, what can you do to help him do it again, and what's been, in your experience, the history of guys who have had to come back after that kind of performance?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, I'll try to do the same thing I did last time, and give him the ball, wish him luck before the game.  My experience, I'd have to look and chart it.  Sometimes guys get really on a roll and they pitch one after another after another, and then sometimes I think you'll chart them and you'll see a real high to a real low.  Probably there's even a few in the middle. 


Q.  Considering there was still plenty of game left after that fourth inning, are you surprised that you had lousy at-bats, that the guys' approaches changed for the worst?

BOBBY VALENTINE: It proves that they're human.  Probably never heard anything or saw anything like that before, and then I thought even when it was 8-2, we had a lot left there at the end, it seemed.  Got a couple guys on and Veres came in, but those last three strikeouts were all called strikes and I think that really made it look lousy. 


Q.  Can you talk about a guy like Mike Hampton, who's been very good for a number of years.  Yet he seems to be judged almost disproportionately on what he does in a couple of post-season games.  There are other players like that, too. 

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, I don't judge him that way, and I think it's just the way of the world.  Last time he put up seven zeros, I think people judged him as the king of the world, so... He's a good pitcher. 


Q.  Other players have had that happen to them. 

BOBBY VALENTINE: Yeah, other people, I guess like you say, it's the way of the world.  In all sports, guys play a great regular season, and then, hey, Dan Wilson right now I think is only 2 for 54 in the post-season.  So he shouldn't be judged by that.  He's been a good player all his career.  I just saw that on TV, that's why I mentioned it. 


Q.  Do you think Mike Hampton is a guy that pitches better when he feels like he has something to prove? You mentioned after his last start, his hard time in San Francisco, you felt he was pitching with something to prove?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Again, that's a hard one to tell.  If that's what it is that makes him pitch his best game, or if it's the weather, the wife's cooking.  I think when a guy's very good or even when a guy's not that good to overanalyze the reasons that he has success in any one particular game, I think is the world we live in, but it's not an accurate apprisal of what's going on. 


Q.  Pitching on three days' rest used to be commonplace.  Today it seems a lot of players are struggling.  Has the game changed? Is the mentality different? Why do so many pitchers have a difficult time?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I'm not smart enough to figure that one out.

I think routines have changed, and I think that what guys do in between their starts becomes much  -- it is much more routine, and I think they do much more.  So there's probably not only a breaking-down process when they're pitching, but also a bit of breaking down and building up process in between.  When you cut that short, that cycle short, the guy sometimes comes up short.  If that makes any sense at all.  (Laughter.) If you're here when you're pitching, peaking when you pitch, so after you pitch you break down, you're fatigued, you're down here.  Then you start to build back up.  A lot of guys when they're building back up will lift weights, do stuff like that, in the days in between.  Well, that breaks down but also builds up.  So it kind of gives you this.  Then you rest, until you're peaking again.  When that cycle is shorter, all that doesn't have time to happen.  


Q.  In the older times  --?

BOBBY VALENTINE: No, they used to throw and then run in the outfield.  And then pitch again.  Most of them didn't last longer.  Majority of the pitchers got hurt after a few years of their career, and a few of the pitchers we remember lasting for a long time.  Mainly because I think most of those guys started their careers later, okay, and it was after their formative years when they abused their arm and their arm was already mature enough to get by. 


Q.  To continue with the overanalysis of Mike Hampton...

BOBBY VALENTINE: Yes. 


Q.  ... He did express some sort of relief about winning that game the other day, and I'm wondering whether you sense that that is, in fact, something significant and whether that will have an impact on his next performance?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I hope it has a very positive impact on him.  Again, I think when you pitch that first playoff game, if you're fortunate enough to win it, you don't have a trail.  But if you're not as fortunate and you lose it and then the next one, same thing happens, things start mounting.  So I could see how it would be good to get the first one under your belt so that you're starting fresh.  It's like you get in a batting slump during the season, you need that bloop over second, then you go 3 for 4. 


Q.  Can you talk about the value of having a couple guys with some pop down at the bottom of the order like Payton, Agbayani and even Bordick?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, we all like to, and Tony (LaRussa) has and Dusty (Baker) had a situation where no matter who's starting the inning, unless it's the pitcher and then in some cases that's okay, too, but no matter who's starting an inning you had a chance of having a rally.  I think no matter where that rally leads to, you have a guy who has a chance of driving a run in.  That's how you get a decent line-up.  So with Payton and Agbayani and Bordick down in the line-up, we have a chance to get a double, score a guy from first, also get a home run to have an immediate rally. 


Q.  Johnny Franco said the other day that it's just so exciting, this time of year, it's hard to sleep even.  How does the post-season affect your life when you're not here at the ballpark?

BOBBY VALENTINE: It takes up a lot of my spare time.  I have lots of friends in town, fly in and some drive in, so there's more breakfast than I usually have and there's lunches that are planned rather than on the fly.  It's consuming.  Not just the game and the atmosphere, but a lot of people are sharing.  You like to share in this atmosphere, and I think that's part of the beauty of it.  So I try to give my time to a lot of different people. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT