NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v CARDINALS
October 15, 2000
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  Should we be so continually amazed at Timo Perez? Is he this guy the real deal here or what? 
 
BOBBY VALENTINE: I think when you look at his talent, he has good talent.  He runs well, throws well, and is able to get a good at-bat.  So he's impressing the heck out of me.  
 

Q.  The play on (Shawon) Dunston, do you think he always had this kind of arm?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE: Yeah, he has a very quick  -- the reports came with him having very quick release, very accurate, very strong arm.  
 

Q.  Can you talk about how impressed you were with Glendon (Rusch), throwing those three big innings for you and doing it after a short appearance yesterday?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, after we won the wildcard, I told Glendon he's going to be the wildcard, he didn't get to pitch in that first series much, but I knew that we'd get to use him.  He's a tough kid.  He's pitched great for us.  He's very competitive and he throws strikes, which is really important.  Those are the three huge innings.  I mean, we don't win the game without that kind of performance, I don't think.  
 

Q.  Will there be any real sense of urgency tomorrow to close this out at home?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE: I hope not.  I hope we can play the same kind of game that we played tonight with determination to do what we have to do when the game starts and let the scoreboard figure out what the game is when it's all over.  
 

Q.  How crucial was Todd Zeile's play considering (Mark)McGwire was sitting on deck?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, it would have made it a lot more exciting had he not made the play.  That's really  -- that's the x factor of x factors, there were a few times when he was standing on deck or lurking there in the wings.  I'm glad we kept him on the bench.  
 

Q.  Talk about how Timo(Perez) sparked that second-inning rally. 
 
BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, he sparked the offense with the first hit of the game.  And then stealing a base and getting third base, there he obviously put some pressure on (Darryl)Kile because he wasn't really locating his breaking balls.  With a guy on third it's a little tough to snap that one off; it might bounce.  
 

Q.  Were you aware of Kile's historic struggles on three days' rest? And if you were, were you surprised that Tony(LaRussa) opted to use him?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE: No, I wasn't really aware of it and Tony definitely knows his team better than I do.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT