NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v CARDINALS
October 14, 2000
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Looking ahead to Bobby Jones, did he show you something? Talk about the game he pitched against the Giants, please. 

BOBBY VALENTINE: We're going back and forth.  I'd rather talk about today's game rather than being here tomorrow.  Bobby Jones pitched a great game the last time he pitched and I'm looking forward to the same thing tomorrow. 


Q.  Any changes in the line-up?

BOBBY VALENTINE: The same guys are there, Ventura is batting fourth, Zeile's batting fifth, Agbayani and Bordick. 


Q.  Edgardo was saying yesterday his hand was fine even though it was wrapped up.  How is he?

BOBBY VALENTINE: He caught it right off kind of his wrist, the top of his hand.  Hard-hit ball.  It was a little sore during that game.  Yesterday it felt a little better and today it's even improved but there's still a little something there. 


Q.  Rick Reed has pitched so many good games for you going back to the end of the last regular season, post-season.  What is it about him that allows him to step up and pitch that way?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I see the same pitcher when Rick pitches, whether it's spring training or if we're playing a game in early May or if we're playing one late in the year.  He prepares well.  He's very determined.  He gets his little inner cocoon and he loves the competition. 


Q.  Timo Perez has a very aggressive and bold style of fielding.  Does it ever make you nervous, or do you think it stimulates the team?

BOBBY VALENTINE: You mean the throw to third base the other day?


Q.  Especially that. 

BOBBY VALENTINE: Yeah, that was bold.  (Laughter.)  Didn't have time to be nervous really.  He's a very good player.  Understand, the ball that he went for when we had the lead is exactly what you're supposed to do there.  If the ball gets by, who cares, it's two outs, you get the third out when you have a big lead.  It doesn't matter where the runner is, that's the time you dive for the ball, you take the extra chance to get the third out in the game or last out of the game. 


Q.  Did you ever imagine, when you think of Timo, here's a guy that was fairly unheard of.  He comes up in September.  Could you imagine him playing that kind of role, is it more of a surprise to you?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, he was heralded by Omar Minaya early in the year and throughout the year.  And Howie Freyling (phonetic spelling) and John Gibbons, both compared him to other players that were on that Triple A team so I could have an idea of what they thought of him and they thought quite highly of him.  It's hard to think that we didn't call him up sooner, knowing he has this kind of ability I guess.  But it's not hard to see that ability and translate it into a contribution in the post-season.  It probably says something about the number of position players that play ahead of him in Japan who probably could be pretty good players over here. 


Q.  Tony LaRussa talked a little bit about the rough spots in that rotation, Stephenson out, Ankiel having problems.  Is there any way to overcome those problems?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I thought Tony did a great job in the season of developing Ankiel and also overcoming some of the injuries that he had not only this year but in other years, his starting staff.  One of our foundations, one of our strengths is the fact that we were able to have the same guys from start to finish, Bobby Jones had a little break and Rick had a little break and I guess Mike missed a start.  But for the most part, because of Glendon Rusch's ability as the fifth guy, we were very consistent.  I think that was a very big strength of the team. 


Q.  I'd like to follow up on your comment about Japanese position players.  Do you foresee more coming over, and would you like to see more coming over?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't know why they would, really.  But I think there's a couple guys who are going to test it and my personal preference is to keep that league strong.  I don't like when the good players leave there and come here.  I think that the best thing for the world would be for them to maintain a strong league and keep getting better so that it could be true world competition some day.  It doesn't look like we're going in that direction and the founding fathers of the game think this All-Star, World Cup-type play is better for the game.  I don't particularly like that.  I think it's diametrically opposed to what the Asian culture thinks about a team.  I think the strength of their team is the fact that they work together, play together, continuously.  They know each other and their team is much stronger than the group of the kids.  Therefore, their All-Star group, I don't think, is as strong as our All-Star group because our individuals are really the things that separate us I think.  That being said, I'm not in favor of it, but for the special few who want to do it because Japanese situation has taken the turn that it's taken, I welcome their addition. 


Q.  The other day they said that the Japanese batting champion has won six or seven batting titles is going to test free agent market.  Are you aware of him and do you think he has a chance to play here?

BOBBY VALENTINE: This is really a tangent, but I'm aware of him, very aware of him, and I mean, he's world-class.  He's the top five players in the world.  He's what Sasaki is to relief pitching, he is to outfielders.  He's great. 


Q.  Lately I've been hearing a lot of guys talking about how contagious quality starting pitching is during this time of the year.  Can you explain why that happens?

BOBBY VALENTINE: The idea of it being contagious says that the next day's pitcher takes particular notice to the game prior to his start.  If there's a consistent pitcher the day before, there are certain things that he can zoom in on to figure out how his style will, in fact, be applicable when he's pitching.  So a guy pitches a good game and you get to see a lot of the sameness during the game as you're scouting it for the next game.  I think you then have a little edge, rather than a lot of relief pitchers and different styles in and out. 


Q.  Can it snowball the other way? Is it a vice versa if you see a not-so-quality starting pitcher, can the next day's starting pitcher be affected by that?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Again, I think quality and talent is the overriding factor in both cases.  Just a blanket rule, yes, I think you can become confused if you're looking at many different looks during a game and particularly if it's not successful, what you're looking at isn't successful, then the question goes up,  "Hmm, he hit that pitch, I better not throw it.  What do I throw?"


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT