NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v CARDINALS
October 12, 2000
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Both ends of the eighth inning were pretty difficult, there were a lot of moves.  How difficult was it to make sure you had the right people at the right time in that inning?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  Well, I'm not so sure Turk against Drew was exactly the match you wanted, but that's what it came down to and they tied the score with it.  But there's a lot of stuff going on, there's no doubt about that.  There's never a guy in the dugout obviously, we lost two two-run leads in their ballpark and came away with a victory.  That says a lot for the heart of that baseball team, I'll guarantee you that.


Q.  I'm sure you knew about Ankiel's history in his last start in the Division Series.  Can you talk about the reaction in your dugout when he started pitching that last inning?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  Tell you the truth, that was a long time ago.  I don't really remember the reaction in the first inning.  The guys were talking about patience, we know he has a great arm.  We really don't want to get him into that quick rhythm where he starts throwing strikes, so there was a lot of pregame preparation that was playing out there in the first inning.  Guys just trying to do what they came to the plate and came to the park thinking about doing.


Q.  A lot of guys can go their whole careers without having any game-winning hits.  Do you think Jay has now had two in the last two series, do you think he appreciates it?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  There's no one on the team, maybe no one in the league who has as much confidence in himself as Jay Payton.  He didn't have any hits going into that at-bat, but I know he believed deep down in his heart, right down to his toes, that he was the best man in that situation.  That's what got him here, the perseverence, through all that he's been through.  To get here, that's what gets him those big hits, that self-belief.


Q.  Are you surprised they didn't walk Payton and set up a double play?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  Well, no, I wasn't surprised. Timlin's very -- really tough against right-handers, and probably not as tough against left-handers and Frank was on deck.


Q.  Considering how the last week or so has played out, can you still not consider it momentum? Do you still  not believe in momentum?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  I don't really believe in momentum, no.  I believe in character, and I believe in people who believe in themselves.  I don't think that they need what happened yesterday to rise to the occasion today.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT