NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v CARDINALS
October 11, 2000
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Would you address Hampton's performance?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  Yes, his performance was fabulous.  There have been some doubt cast over Mike because of a small sample of his postseason play.  I think he erased those doubts and got us a big win. Those are seven fabulous innings, starting with the first one when he got the bases loaded, got the big out to get out of it; and the last one when, you know, he has got two on and he gets 20th and 21st outs of the game.


Q.  How important were the two runs in the 1st inning?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  It's tough to put a level of importance or degree of importance, but you like to score in every inning.  When you can start the game with them down two, that is the way they like to play.  And they usually get guys down early in the game.  We got on the scoreboard, and we had a pretty  relaxed feeling the whole game.


Q.  Mike talked about the need to redeem himself after the first game.  Did he seem pretty down, or was he still up after that?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  He was determined is what I saw.  When we said, "You got the first game again," I think that was a way of telling him there is no reason to be down.  "You are an outstanding pitcher; we need you; we believe in you.  And just do what you can do."  That is what he did tonight, and what he could do is pretty good.


Q.  What does it mean for the team to see Mike Piazza hit like he did tonight?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  Well, Mike seems like his last game he was swinging the bat well; just missed a few balls.  And he came out swinging tonight.  Sat on a curve ball the first time up, and got a big double RBI, and had great at-bats.  You know, we are a pretty good team.  And when Mike is hitting, we are a real good team.


Q.  The status of Mike Bordick, and your thoughts on the pitch that hit him on the hand?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  He got hit right in the top of the right thumb.  He is getting it X-rayed now.  I  guess he got it X-rayed.  We are waiting to have someone read it.  He feels okay.  You mean, do I think that they took the smallest guy in our lineup and decided to throw a pitch at him?  I doubt it.  I certainly never -- I have never thought of Tony's team to do anything like that.  I am not going to start thinking now.


Q.  How important was it to take the crowd out of the game early like you did?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  This is a great baseball town, and they were screamin, so it is great to get them out of the game.  I think they add a little adrenaline to their players.  They probably took a few at-bats tonight without that extra adrenaline.


Q.  Any regrets seeing the great scoreless streak ended with a little sloppy play?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  No, I think if they are going to score, that is a great time for them to score.  Now we start it going again tomorrow.


Q.  What were you thinking on the ball that Edmonds hit, and did Agbayani kind of stumble just before he caught the ball?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  I think I was doing the stumbling in the dugout watching it.  I thought it was hit high, and on a summer's night that is a home run.  I think without humidity tonight, it stayed in the ballpark.  I don't know if he stumbled.  I couldn't really tell.


Q.  After you saw the Cardinals hit against the Braves, how critical was it for you to shut them down as you did?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  We went over their team. You have to make pitches.  They are a fabulous offensive team.  If you make your pitches, you have got a good chance of getting them out; if you don't, they are going to do some damage.


Q.  Can you talk a little bit about Piazza's work behind the plate?  He seemed to be really in sync with Hampton.

BOBBY VALENTINE:  I thought they had a really great flow going in and out and back and forth.  They talked between every inning.  They were prepared for the first batters of every inning when they left the dugout, and it was just that idea of planning the work, working their plan, and they really did look good together.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT