NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v CARDINALS
October 10, 2000
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What can you tell us about your rotation?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  We will have Mike Hampton, Al Leiter, Rick Reed, Bob Jones, pretty much as we have had it all year. 
 

Q.  The Leiter/Hampton decision, would you comment?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  It wasn't really a big decision.  It was just the way we opened up the season, the way we opened up the last playoffs, the season went pretty well, playoffs went pretty well. You know, there is a little rest factor in there for Al, and a little stay on the course. 
 

Q.  Tony La Russa talked earlier today about the first meeting you in the Dominican in 1985, do you remember that and can you talk about it?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  Well, I remember it.  It was quick.  The meeting there and then actually in 1985 I first met him in the winter of 1985, managed against him my first game with the Texas Rangers; he  was with Chicago White Sox.  I remember both of them, you know, very much -- the competitor and the cordial baseball guy that is, good luck, work hard, keep going, keep your nose to the grindstone. 
 

Q.  You got to this point last year.  Does the Championship Series from last year -- any lessons learned?  Does that come into play at all this week?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  I hope you learn all the time.  I am a slow learner, as everyone knows, but I think probably took something away from it and if a situation occurs that might have some relevance of last year, I am sure it will come into play. 
 

Q.  Do you see any similarities between the way you and Tony La Russa approach your jobs?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  I think there is a lot of similarities, actually.  Of all the guys who manage, I think that there is a lot of similarities. 
 

Q.  Any specifics that jump to mind?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  No.  (laughs). 
 

Q.  You had a lot of success against the Cardinals earlier in the season.  Have you seen a difference in this team, differences that have pushed them over the edge?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  I haven't really been able to track their team to see -- I thought the last --  the Giant team, it was a defined time, I thought when their team turned around -- I think it has been more of an evolution with the Cardinals that, you know, they have kept coming together as a team.  I don't think -- from my outside viewpoint, I don't think there was a real defining moment.  I think they have been a good team all year. 
 

Q.  Bobby, you have basically a completely different outfield now than you had at the start of the season for various reasons.  Could you talk about how that evolved and how it has made you a different team?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  Yeah, we came in this season with Henderson, Hamilton and Bell.  The leftfield situation evolved where Ricky wasn't quite the fit for our team.  We had a parting of ways there and Agbayani was not scheduled to be part of the team early and then kept impressing and being more of a part of the team as the season evolved.  I think when Ricky left, Benny was ready to step in there and do the kind of job that he has done.  Darryl Hamilton was centerfielder coming in, he had a knee and a toe situation.  We really had not experienced Jay Payton in centerfield very much because we haven't experienced him much at all on the field.  But the  more we saw him playing centerfield and taking total control of it, I think that Jay is in the upper echelon of defensive centerfielders, top 5 at least in our league.  Once it was seen how good he could play defense, he had that job well in hand and at the same time Darryl Hamilton was seeing other doctors, and taking care of his toe.  Derek Bell for the most part was mainstay in rightfield and Timo Perez got a taste early in September with glowing reports from Minor League people and scouts who scouted him, signed him and really believed in him.  I got him some playing time.  He looked pretty good and when Derek went down he stepped in and did a good job. 
 

Q.  How much has it changed your team to have the different players?  They are different types of players.
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  Well, to the team's credit, I think each guy was dramatically different than the guy he replaced.  The team adapted to each guy, you know, with Benny leading off and doing a terrific job there, which Jay Payton and with Timo, they have all been really major parts of the team when they are playing. 
 

Q.  What kind of advantage, if any, does it give  you to be able to put those two lefthanders against this team, that has at time struggled against lefthanders?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  Most of the lefthanders in the National League, first of all, are really good and we have two of them.  I think Mike and Al, if they were righthanded they would be very good.  They are very good pitchers.  So you know, I am not sure that there is this big differential.  I think these guys can swing the bats.  I think that they are a fearsome offensive team and if you throw from the right or the left side you have to make your pitches.  I believe that Mike and Al and Rick and Bobby and the bullpen can make their pitches. 
 

Q.  Mike Hampton said after his last start a lot of players went up and talked to him.  Did you go up and talk to him about anything special in terms of easing his mind?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  Nothing out of the normal, no. 
 

Q.  Ever stop to think that you have a very, very young playoff outfield?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  Yeah, well, I thought my team was pretty young most of the year.  We have  experienced players, but you know, Benny and Jay have been in there for the most part for three months and have learned as young players together.  I am proud of that.  I think they have done a wonderful job and Timo is the youngest of the young.  So we will see what his -- how the development continues. 
 

Q.  All these years of managing against Tony La Russa in the two different leagues, how would you describe the relationship between you two?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  I think it has been really competitive on the field.  I think it has been cordial and not social off the field.  I don't think we have ever had dinner together or anything.  He is the guy that when I talk about a guy who can manage, I always mention that he is a guy who can manage.  He has my utmost respect.  I think that I have learn earned and gained his respect over the years.  I think the battles are pretty well even.  I think the record-I shouldn't say without looking it up-but I will assume it is pretty even.  I kind of remember the Oakland dynasty having some fits with the old Rangers, so, it has been combative on the field, that is for sure. 
 

Q.  In choosing Hampton for your Game 1 starter - you have used the term "Stay the course."  Can you  talk about the importance of staying loyal to your pitchers and not changing it from the course of the season?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  Well, there is one thing about you know, just, you know, being loyal and showing faith to players, I think that is a thing that happens during the year.  I think in this situation, you know, in talking with Dave Wallace and Al Jackson and plenty -- the other coaches on this team, you know, it seemed like a no-brainer, you know, that this is the way we are going.  As a matter of fact, on the plane Dave came up and said:  There is no reason to think that we are going to do anything different than Mike and Al, is there?  I said:  I mean, unless someone gives me a reason for it, I don't see any reason for it.  He has been a very good pitcher for us.  Al has been a very good pitcher for us.  We are hoping to have this series, be one that will continue; if, in fact, it does, you know, we have Mike pitching 5 at home; Al pitching on the road at 6.  Al has been pretty good on the road, all that good stuff, and Mike has been pretty good all year and all -- I mean, when everything was thrown around, there was just, again, I  thought pretty easy decisions. 
 

Q.  Playing a team that you don't have quite such an emotional rivalry against, at least for the last 15 years as opposed to the Braves, does that have any effect on the field?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  I am not sure how that, you know, emotional thing even translates with the Braves.  I don't know.  I'd have to almost look and see what the record -- I bet it is real similar in that -- we are 6 and 3 now, but I bet you over the last 18 we are close to .500 with the Cardinals, last 16, I think we were .500 with the Braves.  I think the crowd is something that adds to the emotion of a game.  I think the crowd here is much more involved and supportive than the crowd in Atlanta and so you know, there might be some more emotion here in this series once you get playing it. 
 

Q.  Does the age of your outfielders discount some of the theories about playoff experience and all that for postseason?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  I don't think there is any substitute for experience.  And I also know there is no substitute for talent.  And what I think the guys are lacking in experience, they make up with talent. 
 

Q.  What is the spectrum of McGwire on the bench;  do to you strategically.....
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:  Oh, it's a whole X factor. I suspect that he will be used for that one at-bat in any situation during the game that could give them an advantage offensively.  He is, without a doubt, a force, so I won't be surprised if he hits for Clark, I mean, you know, if the situation calls for it, we have a lefthander out there or if he hits for, you know, Ray, or Vina, I mean, there will be -- it is a lot less predictable having him on the bench.  I don't think he is just a guy in the right-hand column for pinch hitters here that you can define their role as I can usually do with every team we play.  I think his role is defined only as a major offensive threat to be used at any time.  So it is different. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT