NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v GIANTS
October 7, 2000
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about what went through your mind seeing Agbayani come through like that? 
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:   Benny has been one of our real key players all year long, and, you know he had that first and second no-out situation and really felt like he let the team down.  He was kind of pacing in the dugout, just hoping to get another chance.  When he got it he made the best of it.  
 

Q.  Any thought about going with Mike Hampton to close out the series tomorrow?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:   No. 
 

Q.  Any discussion in the dugout about the close ball at first base when there could have been a doubleplay? 
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:   I didn't think that was that close.  Was it close?  
 

Q.  The replay seemed to show he was out. 
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:   Really?  I guess it was close then.  I thought he beat it.  
 

Q.  Agbayani wasn't guaranteed a roster spot coming into Spring Training.  He won the first game for you this season with a Grand Slam and then tonight with the home run.  Can you talk about him coming full circle, back to this situation? 
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:   The reason he wasn't guaranteed is because he's the only guy on our team with options.  It wasn't because of his ability, for sure.  Things broke his way, so he got to stay with us from day one and he has been a contributor since day one.  I don't know where we would be without him.  We had a great team  -- and this was a great team effort, no doubt about that.  But Benny has been very good for us all year long. 
 

Q.  Could you comment on the pitching of Rick White and the great job he did?
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:   You all saw it.  The entire bullpen was fabulous and Rick Reed did a real good job back there in the first game.  But Rick White, getting Bonds at the end there, throwing those strikes low and away, getting his breaking ball over for strikes, you'd think he's been in a playoff situation for the last ten years.  When Steve got him, Steve said, "This is a guy who is going to put us over the hump."   And he's done that to get us here and he really did it tonight. 
 

Q.  When you win a game in this fashion, you have to come back tomorrow and play a game that means so much tomorrow, do you have to guard against getting too high? 
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:   I think everyone knows what is at stake tomorrow, and it is a group of professionals in there.  That's how come they were able to play those close innings and play all of the close games they have played all year.  I think they will be ready when the game starts.  
 

Q.  Can you tell me a little bit about your approach with Robb Nen, he's had all of those saves in a row.  What do you tell Edgardo as he goes up there? 
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:   I promise, if I had any clue what to say to a hitter, I'd put it in book form and I'd be very, very wealthy right now.  Edgardo Alfonzo is just a fabulous player, and Robb Nen is a fabulous pitcher, and the guy with the bat won that battle that time.  
 

Q.  The Mets have played the two longest post-season games.  What is it about your team that keeps them battling like that and holding in there? 
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:   Well, they do keep battling, there's no doubt about that, and there was great spirit in that dugout after  -- since Fonzie got the hit it was real uplifting.  We just like our fans to see us as much as possible.  
 

Q.  Without a couple of swings by Alfonzo, this series could be over the wrong way for you  --
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:   Which is amazing.  It seems all year  -- actually, Fonzie's entire career, it seems like he does the big thing that gets us to the point where we have a chance to win, and then somebody else does something right at the end.  It seems more spectacular, but it doesn't have any more importance than what Fonzie does, the home run last night gave us the win.  The hit tonight gave us the chance for a win.  Edgardo Alfonzo, I don't know what it's going to take for people to understand how good he is, but he is very, very good.  
 

Q.  Can you share what you said to Benitez when you told him to walk J.T. Snow? 
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:   Well, Armando doesn't like the intentional walk, because he thinks he can get everybody out in the world, and I believe that right down to my bone.  And I just wanted to go out and tell him that there was a chance that the guy might be able to do something more than the next guys coming up, and I just wanted him to be with me in that situation, understanding that I think he is the best, but I think this is the best move.  And he was all right with it.  
 

Q.  Much has been made about Barry Bonds post-season lack of success.  You've got him down under .200 again.  Anything you notice about Barry between the regular season and post-season? 
 
BOBBY VALENTINE:   No.  He scares me during the regular season and he scares me during post-season.  He's obviously as good as anybody in uniform.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT