NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v GIANTS
October 7, 2000
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Can you speak about Timo Perez, all of the said he is the big man coming along?

BOBBY VALENTINE:   We don't like to get excited about things, that's for sure.  But Timo is a good player.  I'm glad we have him.  He's able to play defense and offense, and he could be a contributing factor here.  He already was in one game. 


Q.  Had you known about him because of your association with Japan?

BOBBY VALENTINE:   Absolutely not.  He played in a central league over there.  He played for the Carp long after I left my six-month tour there.  I heard about him from our scout there, who is here now and heard about him from Omar Minaya, who really liked him.  I had heard about him from John Gibbons and Howie Freiling who were at AAA watching him a lot. 


Q.  Your thoughts been Rick Reed pitching a big Game 3 today? 

BOBBY VALENTINE:   I've seen Rick pitch many a game.  I think every game is a big one that he's ever pitched from the Opening Day in Minor League season in AAA when I had him through pitching the first game of the playoffs in AAA.  He's a very good pitcher.  I have a lot of confidence in him. 


Q.  Can you talk about Ortiz, why he has been so successful against the Mets in the past? 

BOBBY VALENTINE:   He also is a very good pitcher who has good stuff.  He throws it on the outside corner, low and away at times.  He has a good breaking ball.  I think we only got one hit against him last time he pitched against us.  He's a good pitcher. 


Q.  Can you talk more about Reed, what makes Reed so successful as a pitcher?  What is the key to him pitching well today? 

BOBBY VALENTINE:   Rick Reed has a fastball he throws to both sides of the plate, a changeup, a curveball and a slider.  I think he needs his control.  I think he needs to get ahead of hitters and make sure he's working that fastball on both sides of the plate consistently. 


Q.  From your experience here, did the Giants and Dodgers get any other different response here in New York than other teams because of the franchises previous history here? 

BOBBY VALENTINE:   From the fans?  I think it is very negligible. 


Q.  Can you discuss your pitching plans for games 4 and 5, and if you have decided can you explain why, and if not, can you explain why? 

BOBBY VALENTINE:   It's probably just decided and probably not being discussed and the reason is I don't want to.  


Q.  How important is it to get production from your number 3,4 and 5 hitters? 

BOBBY VALENTINE:   I'll take what they gave us yesterday  -- day before yesterday.  But I think offense comes from all parts of the lineup, and I think we can contribute from top to bottom.  I like our lineup. 


Q.  You you've only played two games in the playoff.  What have you learned about the Giants that you did not already know? 

BOBBY VALENTINE:   Not a thing.  Not about my team or theirs.  But I'll keep my eye open, and hopefully I'll learn something before it's all over. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT