NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 19, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. I think we should ask how you feel about the character of your team. This was as
impressive a comeback as possible; it just fell a little short.
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: There were two really good teams tonight. And the Braves,
congratulations to them. They won it. They beat us during the season and they deserve to
move on. They won tonight, so they really deserve to move on. They played a championship
team. I told my guys after the game that it might be a shorter winter or longer winter for
them, but I think they played like champions. They should feel like champions. 
 
Q. Is it more draining to come from being that far behind, 5-0, and then taking the
lead; is that a harder way to take it or is there any difference?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: It's very difficult to come back from five runs with Millwood pitching
and have a couple of leads. It's difficult to give it up, but we gave everything we had.
There's a lot left out on that field, I guarantee you that. 
 
Q. Bobby, these last two games, were they the best games you've ever been involved
with?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I'm going to take some time during the winter to watch these games and
try to enjoy them like I think millions of people got to enjoy them. I think they were
fabulous baseball games. 
 
Q. Bobby, the SI piece suggested that you may not even want to be back next year. Did
you decide that you would decide that when the season was over?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I'd really like to talk about the game. I think that stuff is silly. I
love the game of baseball. And I think that somebody was way off base. 
 
Q. Just your thoughts on that last at-bat there with Andruw Jones?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: His last two at-bats were very calculated and very patient at-bats. He
worked Armando Benitez to 3-2, taking it all the way, and then got a base hit. And
actually, on the 2-0 pitch, he was anxious, and then he got back in the saddle. I think
Kenny felt he could throw a pitch and get him to swing on something on his own, possibly
early, and he didn't do it.  
 
Q. Bobby, you gave your other New York team a tough act to follow. How do you think the
Yankees will fare against these guys?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I think the Braves are outstanding and the Yankees are outstanding. I
hope they can get the viewers' attention, the way I think we got their attention the last
few weeks. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT