NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 19, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. In the middle of this series and after a game like that, how aware of you of what
goes on away from the game, what it does to the city, back home, and things that are going
on outside the park?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Outside the park at Shea? 
 
Q. In New York, what's going on there now. Everybody is all of a sudden we're back the
subway series, the be-all-and-end-all. Are you aware of that or are you just trying to
stay focused on the games?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I'm pretty aware of it, I guess. I have a lot of contact. All my
friends -- probably not all of them, but two of the three friends that I have (laughter),
called and they were really, really excited, wanting to know about tickets and what's
going on. I've heard the stories about where they were and what they did, the ones who
weren't at the game. I had a whole bunch of people at the game, which was wonderful. But
since then, yeah, I think I have a pretty good feel. It's really exciting. 
 
Q. A subway series would be the biggest thing that could happen in New York?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: It would be bigger than anything that ever happened to me in New York.
I think it would be really large. I think that we're close, but we're really far away from
that right now. The attention has really got to be on Kevin Millwood and the Braves. I
know it's going on. I'm not sure that if my players said they did not feel it, that I
wouldn't be disappointed. 
 
Q. Can you give us your MASH unit update, with Cedeno, Piazza and all that?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Everybody is ready to go. Mike is in the line-up and Cedeno is in the
line-up, and they say they're fine and ready to go. And that's what they are. They're
fine. They're not probably great physically. 
 
Q. Bobby, as many different ways as Melvin Mora has helped you win games, is he a guy
that you'd like to see what he could do if he's on your roster from the beginning to the
end of the season? Is that how you view him now as a guy that's a Major League ballplayer?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Absolutely. I think that the thoughts that many of us had leaving
Spring Training have been solidified in that people who got to see him play at AAA were
extremely excited, and his contributions here and during the season have earned him the
right to be on our team next year; if, in fact, there's a spot for him and he has a good
spring and all those other things that come into play. 
 
Q. Bobby, is Reed your Game 7 pitcher?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Yes. 
 
Q. Could you talk about what he's done particularly well the last three games, the
Pittsburgh game and Arizona and last week?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Since he came off of the disabled list, he's had all of his pitches,
and he's been able to work both sides of the plate and all that. But he's had a couple of
innings where he drifted into the middle of the plate and he got burned. I think in the
last few games, he's stayed away from drifting into the middle of the plate and kept his
concentration intensity up, to go along with his quality pitches. 
 
Q. Not that you had many options the other night, but when you're putting someone as
young, and sometimes as emotional, as Dotel in a game like that, were you worried about
how he would respond?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I mentioned to David at the beginning of the series that I thought
that Octavio would give us a strong presence if we needed him. I didn't think it would
have to come in the rain of a tie game of Game 5 in extra innings. But I was very proud of
his effort. I don't want to sit here and say, "Well, it's exactly what I
expected," because it sounded like I said that about Mora. But I was very confident
in his ability and his chances of rising to the occasion. 
 
Q. Of all the moves in that game, in over 15 innings, I think you said there were about
as many moves as you could make. When you looked it over again, were there any that you
questioned yourself on, were there any that you gave yourself an especially hard time
about?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, you strive for perfection, and I don't think any of us are
perfect. I think I said to someone after the game that when the one inning started with
Agbayani on base, I was hoping that he would run. I was trying to get him off and get him
running. The conditions weren't conducive to that. That being said, I still think I should
have hit Kenny Rogers with two outs and Agbayani on first, giving Benny a chance to steal
the base, then pinch-hit for Kenny. If he gets thrown out, let Kenny pitch another inning.
 
 
Q. Has there ever been a game that you don't go over and you don't second guess
yourself? Is there a game you don't think: "I know that everything I did that game, I
did the right thing for the right reasons, that's it, good night"?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Replaying the game, I guess, isn't necessarily a second guess. But I
think replaying the game is the education process that we all have to give ourself. If you
can't learn from the experiences that you live firsthand then, A, you're not experiencing;
and B, you're a dummy, because you're not learning. So I think you have to go over those
things. What usually happens is you go down the road of the what-ifs; there's an endless
path. Like with Rey, for instance, when Benny walked on all the high pitches the other
night and Rey gets the bunt sign and he bunts a pitch that's up over his head, you have to
say to yourself after the game, as I do, "Geez, I wonder if I game him a take, if it
would have been a better idea"? If the pitch is right down the middle, it sure isn't
a better idea. But you have to say -- give him the bunt, you expect to take him a pitch
over the head. But if I gave him a take, I wouldn't worry about him taking a pitch over
his head. There's all the things of what-ifs that you just learn from. And usually what
you do is you check off and you say, "Nothing you could have done about that; nothing
you could have done about that". 
 
Q. I don't mean to belabor the point, but is that the stuff about this job that will
drive you crazy?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, I won't make this too long of an answer. But I think if you
don't do those things, I think it will drive you crazy. If you don't enjoy what you're
doing and you don't have confidence enough in what you did after it was done, to go back
and say "What if," then you'll be driven crazy by the haunting of thinking about
it, not the haunting of what-if, but just: "Is this the time that I should think
about that, oh, God." And I think you would go crazy. 
 
Q. Bobby, living as close to the brink of the end as much as you all have this season,
have you ever mentioned the '86 Mets World Series to them, how close they were to the end
when the ball is errored?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: You know, I have not mentioned that. I bet there's a percentage of
guys in the clubhouse, who even though they've seen the footage of the ball going through
the first baseman's legs when Mookie hit the ground ball, didn't understand the entire
scenario. Matter of fact, a lot of them probably thought that won the series. I don't know
what all the guys think about that. So, no, I haven't necessarily mentioned that. 
 
Q. Bobby, do you feel like fortune or luck or destiny is on your side?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I was asked that before. And we're playing in a place that we've won 1
game and lost 14, and we have Kevin Millwood pitching against us, and people say:
"Everything is going your way." (Laughter). I think that we have a good team and
I think that we really do what so many good teams do, and that's give it our best right
until the end. When you do that, things don't get away from you very often in the middle
of a game, or even at the beginning of a game. And eventually a good bit of fortune
catches up with you. 
 
Q. Bobby, based on your observations, do you think the LCS has produced over the years
more exciting games than the World Series?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Yes. Just my own observations, it seems that way, yes. 
 
Q. With your roster constructed like it is now, are you more reluctant to pinch-hit for
Rey because you don't have Lopez to come in there? If you do hit for him, would you more
likely to go to Mora or Dunston? 
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: The roster is constructed the way it is because coming into this
series, I was very reluctant to hit for Rey because Rey came up big in RBI situations
throughout this entire season. And I thought that he became a better hitter as each month
passed. That being said, if I did pinch-hit for him, Melvin Mora would be the shortstop.
And with the roster constructed as it is, for me to plan on Melvin being the shortstop
becomes like Plan 3C. There's a lot of plans for Mora to play in a baseball game. To have
him come in at shortstop means that I have to have a plan for the plan that I had to use
him prior to that. 
 
Q. Bobby Cox basically was asked before about how he reacts to newspaper reports. He
said he never reads a newspaper, never listens to the radio. As a Major League manager, I
guess, what's your attitude on that?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I think that's a very admirable thing that he does, and something that
some day I hope to grow up and be just like him. (Laughter). 
 
Q. Have you ever read an article you wish you hadn't read? (Laughter).
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't read every paper. I don't read every article. But when they're
brought to my attention with someone going, "Did you see this one," I'm just
always tempted to read it. I don't listen to the radio that much. And Joe Torre did say --
his advice to me when I got the job initially in '96 was: "Don't listen to the radio
and stay away from the newspapers." So I think I've weaned myself off of them.
There's only so much time in the day that I have. What I try to do is read a lot of
national stuff and read about the other team, the team that I'm playing, that we're
playing against. 
 
Q. Could you just talk about the job John Franco has done in the postseason?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: John has lived through this situation for a long time. He's dreamed
about it. He's stepped up big, and he's thrown every pitch with as much quality, I think,
as he's thrown in his entire career. John Franco, just for the record, was going to the
All-Star Game this year before he hurt his finger. Some of you might not know that. He was
going to miss by one vote of going to the All-Star Game. Since then, Armando Benitez, once
John wasn't there, stepped up and did a great job. When John got back, he returned with
one inning of Minor League rehab and then had, I believe, eight innings of pitching prior
to the postseason. He's kind of just hitting his stride in rehab. I really like the way
he's throwing and the way he's conducted himself this entire time. 
 
Q. My guess is you won't be satisfied until you win the whole thing, until you win the
World Series. But the farther this goes, do you find yourself more at ease in some way?
They're pressure games, but the further you advance, is there some level of peace or
relaxation?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: You know, I really can't tell you that until today, I guess, because
there wasn't a lot of peace or relaxation the other day. I think when the game starts, I
think that most managers could tell you that they're most at home and they're most
relaxed. It's where they're most prepared. It's doing the thing they like to do best and
they're probably best at. I feel that way. So as far as more relaxed or less relaxed, over
the last couple of days, we've had about three innings that there's been more than two
runs separating the two teams. This is what we do. 
 
Q. It seems like you're having fun?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Maybe it is just the more we've done it, the more relaxed it seems,
yeah. 
 
Q. The other night when Ventura hit the grand single, is it best as a baseball player
to just do what you're supposed to do in case one day he picks them up and there's two
outs? Is it best just to play the game and then celebrate?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: One thing for sure, Todd Pratt knew the entire situation of that game.
He knew when he went up where he stood and what he had to do to get us a victory. I'm not
sure that Robin makes it around the bases if Todd doesn't tackle him. I'm not so sure that
he ever gets to home plate. The dugout's overflowing; the only question was which way to
run for 30 guys. They're going to go to home plate and jump on Roger for scoring the run,
or go all the way out to second to find or wherever he was, to find Robin. It's probably
best to know the situation of the game. I know that Todd knew the situation. I really wish
that Robin, for whatever silly futuristic reasons there are, I wish that he got full
credit for all the numbers that he deserved with that one swing. But the one number that
was most in his mind was the one in the win column. 
 
Q. When you left out of here last Wednesday, did you ever really believe that you would
be coming back?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: You know, it came time to pay the clubhouse guy, John Holland (ph),
and it was everything within my power not -- to write out the check. It was the last thing
I did. I had the check out. I had it sitting there the entire postgame, during the entire
time. And I was going to do one of those things that would have gotten me in trouble, I'm
sure, and said, "I'm going to fill this out when we come back." And I didn't. So
there probably was a little doubt whether or not I was coming back. But it was right until
the -- everybody was out of the clubhouse and I made it out, as the last-ditch effort. So
that's how I felt. I wanted to do something to show that I believed we were coming back,
but I guess I just didn't believe all that much. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT