NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 17, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby, why hadn't you used Franco before then?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, actually Robin Ventura was basically -- we were playing in wet
grounds, and I didn't know if he was going to take a bad turn or come off the field any
one inning and say he didn't have anything left. And I just wanted to keep the guy I
thought was my best pinch-hitter for -- I guess we had some emergencies in that game, but
for an emergency, but also for a situation where he would be my most versatile guy left.
He also is the only position player who's ever pitched for us. So just in case. 
 
Q. Put into words what it's like to go through a game like that?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I swear I'd have to have another profession in order to put it into
words, what that's like. I have no idea. I can't put it into words. I don't remember most
of the game. I can tell you that there was a lot of help. The guys were thinking; they
were pulling; they were believing the entire time, and they came up big. When players come
up big and do the right things, you're able to play a great team like Atlanta tough as
long as we played them until they cracked. 
 
Q. What was specifically wrong with Ventura?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Robin has a knee that's gotten progressively worse for the last two
months of the season. And God bless him, all I can tell you is the at-bat he had against
Rocker was one of those all-hang-out. He had a great swing at a fastball. He fouled off
and he just missed the slider, and you could tell that there hardly was anything left. But
there was something big left. 
 
Q. What knee?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: It's his left knee. It's a situation that this off-day is going to be
a Godsend for him. 
 
Q. Is he going to have to have surgery on the knee?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I can't tell you that. I guess. I guess he would. 
 
Q. Bobby, when that ball was going out, are you thinking anything, are you staring,
watching?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Did it go over the fence?  
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: He never touched the base? 
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I just saw it hit and I knew it was enough. I didn't know it was over
the fence. There were a lot of bodies running out on the field. I saw the trajectory and I
knew that was it. 
 
Q. You've been known to make a lot of moves, but today was this the most moves, the
most thinking you've done in a game?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't count them. But if I ever made more moves than this -- I don't
think there could be more moves than this, because everything started in the 4th inning;
we played 15. So when every pitch is a pretty important pitch, when every at-bat is a
pretty important at-bat, you can't have more moves than that. 
 
Q. What's it like managing every game when every game is the 7th game?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Kind of getting used to it. It seems like we've been doing this for a
couple of weeks now. And the guys are getting used to it, too. And God bless them, they're
fabulous. 
 
Q. Were you surprised that Cox left McGlinchy in there to pitch the 15th?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I didn't see anybody else on the card. You mean Millwood? 
 
Q. Bring in a starter, Glavine?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: He's up 3-1 in that game, there, and if he pitches Millwood 4 and
doesn't get to start him -- I don't know what he's thinking, but I wasn't surprised. 
 
Q. All the strategy aside, what do you feel about this game? What is it that winning
this game has done? What do you think about that?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: My feeling is total appreciation to a group of guys who got one down
in the 15th and came in the dugout and said: "We're going to do this." I must
have heard that 15 times. And Shawon Dunston's at bat was the impetus. The balls he fouled
off were tough pitches. And again, it's easy -- those bags wanted to get packed a few
times, I guarantee you that. But these guys don't close the suitcases. They're here to
stay. 
 
Q. What were you thinking pitching-wise?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Robin was going to pitch the 16th, and once I put Franco in the game,
Robin said his lateral movement wasn't that good, but he felt he could throw a couple of
curveballs in the black. 
 
Q. Could you just say a little bit about Pratt's confidence? When Alfonzo was up, he
was laughing, like: "Bring it on." His at-bat was so confident, did it affect
McGlinchy, when he walked in the run?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Todd's been a big player for us. Once it's first and second, he knew
he was going to be the guy. We just looked at him and said: "You're going to be the
guy, get ready," and he knew it. 
 
Q. Bobby, just on Piazza's condition. Will he play?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: We'll see again. He strained something in his left forearm on that
last swing and he's pretty banged up. He could use an off-day, too. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT