NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 17, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. If you go to Game 6, is Kenny definitely starting?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Kenny is available today in the bullpen. And what we'd like to do is
win this game today and have an off day to make any decisions we have to make for Game 6. 
 
Q. Is it conceivable Al would come back on three days' rest?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: He's only threw a hundred pitches, and it is conceivable. 
 
Q. Is Yoshii still going today? There were some rumors around that he wasn't?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Yes. 
 
Q. Any changes in the starting line-up from last night?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Probably. Roger Cedeno has a pretty severe spasm in his back, and
right now the trainer said it doesn't look good. We're holding off on the line-up until we
see Roger out on the field. 
 
Q. Bobby, how did that happen?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I was in the training room and he was in the whirlpool. That's the
first I heard of it. He's been bothered now for about, Barry Haden said, about the last
week with recurring stiffness. But today he came in with a pretty severe spasm. 
 
Q. Bob, is Rickey back in the starting line-up and did you talk to him today?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I think Rickey was coming in as I was leaving. And as I said, the
starting line-up is not out yet. 
 
Q. Bobby, are you surprised at his reaction? Apparently he allegedly packed up and was
leaving the clubhouse last night, even before the game was over?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I dare say that that should be somehow clarified. I don't know if I
can totally clarify it. But I can tell you this: There were no bags packed, without a
doubt. I can tell you that he was in the clubhouse after I did an interview on the field,
without a doubt. Now, I think that there were some bats put in a box, and one of my
coaches told me that as they were coming in from the bullpen, and they were late because
Orel threw at the end of the game. And as they were coming in, Rickey was walking down
this hallway. And there's a lot of talk about some things that were said, and I have no
firsthand knowledge of any of them. I can tell you about firsthand knowledge, from what my
coach told me when I saw him in that his bags, which are things that he would put his
equipment in, his shirt, et cetera, were in his locker, over his locker, just like
everyone else's at the end of the game. 
 
Q. Was he in the dugout until the end of the game?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Absolutely not. 
 
Q. He was not in the dugout?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: He was dressed at the end of the game, as is commonplace for Rickey
and many other players. 
 
Q. Even in a game of that magnitude, to not be out while the team is essentially in the
last two innings of the season, and then coming back?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, we have played that game before, I think, and I think the same
thing occurred. 
 
Q. And that doesn't concern you?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: It didn't concern me in Cincinnati. I think the same thing happened.
When we played the one-game playoff in Cincinnati, he came out for defense, and he was
dressed at the end of the game in the clubhouse. When we played the last game here against
Pittsburg, or maybe the second to the last -- those are all the same games, if we lost one
of those games, for all intents and purposes. One of those games, he came out and he did
the same thing. So if there was a problem, I should have stopped it then. I didn't see it
as a problem. 
 
Q. Bobby, does a player, veteran or otherwise, have any right to be upset about being
replaced once he's taken his position in the field?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I talked to my coaches about that today, and the timing of that was
very bad, and in particular, for a player of Rickey's stature. And I expressed those
concerns yesterday to him, and I think to you, even though some people who quoted me
didn't get the entire quote in where I said that I would not like anybody to think
anything less of him than of the Hall of Famer that he is. Some people decided to leave
that out of the quote. So my coaches thought that for a 20-year veteran -- some of my
coaches thought that it was improper to take him out at that time. I believe that my job
is to do what's proper to win the game, regardless of timing. And as I explained to some
yesterday, who cared to listen, that it was my fault in that I had Melvin ready to go in,
he was at the end of the bench. I was talking about who else to get up in the bullpen.
Rickey went out on the field. Bruce came in off the field. And Bruce is usually my bench
coach who complements my thoughts, when he got in, he said, "Melvin is still down at
the end of the dugout." Melvin, being the young guy, isn't going to go in on his own.
And I said, "Whoops, Melvin, you're in the game," which I think was the right
thing to do to win the game. 
 
Q. Just as a follow-up, is there going to be any lingering effects of this or is this
thing over with, or how do you read the whole situation right now?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I think it's real early for me to read the whole situation. 
 
Q. Because Melvin has been playing so well in his time so far, any consideration to
starting him today?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: If Roger can't play, it's a definite consideration of starting him. 
 
Q. If you use Kenny today and you win, would Orel be a possible starter in Games 6 or
7?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: That's why he's on the roster. Obviously, he would be a possible
starter, yes. 
 
Q. Bobby, you said you might bring Al back on short rest. Would you also consider doing
the same thing with Rick Reed?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Absolutely. And I would have to consider that, yes. 
 
Q. If you didn't have the situation with Cookie, do you think chances of that happening
yesterday would have decreased?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, in three years with Bruce as my bench coach, it's never
happened. I would have to guess chances would be less, yes. 
 
Q. The opinion that said that it was the wrong thing to do to take him out at that
point, was thinking that it's because it would embarrass him, and not because it was the
right thing to do defensively, that took precedence, is that right?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Yes. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT