NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 16, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Did you call that double-steal from the bench, Bobby?

BOBBY VALENTINE: You know, we have that thing, and you've seen it here. It's either a
hold or if you get a jump. And after Ozzie went behind him, before play started, he wasn't
anywhere near him. So he did okay. It wouldn't have looked too good if he got thrown out
at third, I know that.

Q. You take those kind of chances. I guess today the game didn't go your way at the end
when you had Pratt up, and today you took the chance on the double-steal and it went okay
for you. You live and die with those crucial decisions, don't you?

BOBBY VALENTINE: It's not me playing the game; it's the guys playing the game. I try to
put them in the way so they can succeed. I wasn't going to put up somebody who could fail;
put them at someone that's not good at. With Moore and Rogers on the bases, I think they
can succeed if they get a chance; so I'm going to let them do that.

Q. How about the Cedeno steal?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, that's after Rey unsuccessfully bunted. Rem's quick to the
plate, but again, I just felt that this is something he can do. If he gets a jump, I'm
behind him all the way. It wasn't a bunting situation all the way, but it was for the
first pitch. And on the first pitch, it didn't succeed.

Q. Would you talk about Olerud's two hits?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, for whatever it's worth, I'm glad he was hitting second and had
the opportunity to get them. The hits have been far and few between. And they are pitching
us great. The home run against Smoltzy might have been his only mistake of the night, if
that was down the middle like it looked. Then I think when the guys got to third base,
Rocker had to come in with a fastball instead of a breaking one, and worried about
bouncing a breaking one. John's been a big hitter all his career. He's a talented guy and
goes unnoticed. I know he hit a grand slam to get us a win here in the last series. We
played the Braves and got two big hits today. 

Q. Bobby, could you take us through what you were thinking about with Rick when you
walked to the mound at the 8th. What were your plans in terms of the bullpen and how you
were going to let him progress through the 8th inning?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I didn't have definite plans, obviously. There was a thought on
whether or not he stayed with the one-hitter and such a low pitch count; whether or not I
was going to send him out for the 9th, considering Armando threw 24 pitches last night. So
I think that -- I think that thought went through my mind whether or not -- if he got
through the 8th. But I knew that was the teeth of the order. If there was trouble I had
Turk and Dennis Cook up at the time. If there's trouble, men are on base, Turk was going
to face Andruw Jones.

Q. Is Olerud mentally tougher, maybe, than people realize?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't know what they realize, but he obviously is very tough. This
is a guy who had a brain aneurysm. People said, "Well, who knows what you're going to
do." And he became one of the great hitters at the Major League level without ever
playing a day in the Minor Leagues; who takes the subway every day and lives in New York
City and goes out and plays every day that we have a baseball game. It's pretty tough.

Q. Bobby, is it gratifying to get the hit off Rocker there, just the fact how tough
he's been for you?

BOBBY VALENTINE: You know what was really gratifying is to see Guillen's ball miss the
foul pole. Because those things haven't been going our way. I didn't get up to look, and I
just said, "It's foul." And then I looked, watched the look on Bruce Benedict's
face when he said, "By an inch."

Q. He needed just one strike and didn't get it?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Rocker is as good as there is. And luckily, Armando is pretty good,
too, to close the door there and not have Chipper Jones come to the plate.

Q. Can you tell us what you said before the game to the players?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, maybe not everything. But I think I let a little out of the bag.
What do you say? That everybody was talking about how tough it is to win four games, and I
didn't think we had to win four games today. I thought we had to do the same thing we've
done a hundred times previous to tonight, and that's win one game. We wanted to win two
out of three at least here at home, and no one said which two we had to win. 

Q. Bobby, what was the attitude after Klesko and Jordan hit those back-to-back home
runs, what was the attitude on the bench?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't really remember. It wasn't real down. There was some guys a
little angry. There were a couple of things being kicked. But Turk came in and did a great
job there. That's two runs with a runaway train kind of going downhill, and he put the
brakes on.

Q. Bobby, as manager of the New York Mets, are you in awe or amazed about the fan
support here at Shea?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I totally appreciate the fan support. I said that the last week of the
season, which was a real tough week for us. And there was no anti-Met attitude; there was
all support. And all the fan mail I've gotten, other than one letter who said that I was
an idiot, said they were behind us and they appreciated it, and: "Let's go
Mets."

Q. Bobby, they beat you 12 out of 15 games. You lost some tough games. You win a game
like this. Is this a breakthrough, the kind of game that might lead to something good?
What does it do? Is it more than just a win?

BOBBY VALENTINE: It allows us to win and play tomorrow. So that makes it a
breakthrough. If we didn't win today obviously it doesn't allow us to play tomorrow. That
makes it a great breakthrough.

Q. Can you talk about the way this team responds to adversity? People wrote you off the
last week of the regular season. You came through. I think people came expecting a funeral
tonight, and you came through again?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, I think it's just been a special season for the team and the
fans, and most people who have watched all year have had a great ride and they want to
hold on. And so does the team. It's a great group of guys.

Q. Bobby, the importance of the stolen base and Cedeno tonight, the double-steal?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, both of them are really important. You know, the little things
are the that things that slip through the cracks. The big things the stolen bases, and the
big thing is the bat by Melvin Mora. The stolen bases set everything up.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT