NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 15, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How is Rickey and what's his condition?

BOBBY VALENTINE: He came out yesterday, had really good batting practice. He's swung
the bat as well as he has in about a week. After he got through running, he said he felt a
little weak, but should be okay today. When he came in' today, he said he felt great.

Q. Did they have a name for what his condition was? What did he have? What was his
problem?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I'm not prepared for this. Flu-like symptoms, I guess is what it was.
I bet that's what it said on the thing. That's what it said for Reed the day before.
That's what it said for Cook yesterday or whenever it was.

Q. That he had the same thing?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Seemed like it, yeah. Light, sick, vomiting, light-headed, cold. 

Q. Bobby, do you see the atmosphere tonight having any effect on the game or is
everybody making too much of that?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I haven't seen the atmosphere tonight yet, but it should be a real
exciting night for baseball here in New York. I'm excited about it.

Q. Bobby, the decision to put Melvin Mora in the line-up in centerfield, would you talk
about your philosophy?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Melvin's played well. He's a good defensive outfielder. With Al
pitching, defense is one of the things we're looking for, and as good a defense as
possible. It allows me to have Shawn Dunston on the bench to counter any move, rather than
having Melvin on the bench as a pinch-hitter. It's tougher for a young guy to do that.

Q. Bobby, Cox was flabbergasted by the news on Mike Hargrove. What does a move like
that, a postseason manager losing his job, mean to the atmosphere in this game?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I was surprised myself. I have no statements about the game or
anything. I hate to see that happen. It's not one of the things we like to see, that's for
sure.

Q. Is it possible, Bobby, that your club's ability to come back from the brink at the
end of the season will make them a little too confident now, thinking they'll be able to
just do it again?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Actually the question was: Would coming back make us too confident
now. And I'm not real concerned about being overconfident. (Laughter). That's all I can
say. I think that we're a confident team. I think we believe in ourselves. But some runs
would help, also. I don't know about the past, how much that's dealing with what we're
doing, and I think really what we do is going to dictate how we feel.

Q. Bobby, do you think in the same twisted way that Don King is good for boxing,
because he fires people up, that John Rocker may be as good for the game. A character that
says outrageous things, do you think he's good for the game?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I'm not sure if he's good for the game, I don't know. It seems like
he's pretty good for his team when he's pitching, that's the thing I know for sure.

Q. Bobby, considering what happened in Atlanta, in hindsight, are you glad that you
have a guy like Reed tomorrow? A lot hinges on what happens tonight, obviously. 

BOBBY VALENTINE: Yeah, we're down 0-2, so we need good efforts. To have Al pitching
tonight, Rick tomorrow, it's going to give us our best shot to get back into this thing.

Q. Do you think that a crowd, a sold-out crowd, can affect the team's performance
tonight?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I think the crowd is part of it. Whether it can help or hinder
someone's performance, I think that's just the individual. I don't think that it's the
team that it necessarily -- that it necessarily can have an effect on. But I think
sometimes an individual -- maybe an older guy looking for that extra adrenaline rush might
be able to get it from them. Maybe someone who pays too much attention to it might be
distracted by it, I'm not sure.

Q. Have you seen teams intimidated by playing in hostile circumstances?

BOBBY VALENTINE: It seems that there have been innings that the crowd came into play
with the pitcher, in my recollection. It seems like it has happened at times when we've
been on the road or trying to get the outs. I remember Bert Hooten, wasn't it raining that
day? Whether it was the rain or the crowd, the crowd took credit for it. But it did seem
to have a momentous effect. 

Q. The change in the batting order today with Fonzie and Olerud, the reason for it,
please?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Today's batting order: Rickey is first, Olerud second, Alfonzo is
third, Mike is fourth, Agbayani fifth, Ventura, Mora and Ordonez is eighth. Obviously,
there is some spacing that we needed when we played Houston, because of their dominant
left-handed reliever. And Fonzie went to fifth. I think the same kind of spacing, with
Fonzie being hot, hitting from Mike where he might get a pitch or two more to hit, gives
Fonzie a little more prominence in our line-up and it spaces our left-handers. So it will
be real difficult in one inning, I think, to pitch to John and pitch to Robin with the
same left-hander. Now, I know they have another good left-hander out there, and I know
they can use Maddux to go after my right-handers, and probably will if the situation calls
for it. But I think it will make it a little more challenging for them.

Q. What did you think of the 8th inning last night in the AL game? Were you projecting
all the moves in your head at the time while you were watching?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I didn't think that they were going to pitch to, who was it,
Hatteberg. But they threw a pitch to him. I didn't project that.

Q. Were you playing through it as if you were in the game?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Kind of. I don't know. I was watching it without any voice on. I just
thought it was interesting. I thought the Yankees -- they bunted and played for one run
and got two. And the Red Sox bunted it and played for two runs and got none. I thought it
was interesting on how the players came through for the respective sides.

Q. Bobby, Atlanta has played in the postseason here before, and they didn't necessarily
enjoy their experience at Yankee Stadium in '96. With a sellout at Shea and Yankee
Stadium, are they going to be one and the same, or does your crowd have a different
personality than the Yankee crowd?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I can't really tell. When we play the Yankees, we have so many Met
fans, it's hard to tell Yankee fans and Met fans. It's been long enough time that I've
been the opposition at Yankee Stadium where we did have Met fans for me to really
remember. Yankee Stadium, I think, is a little closer to the field. It seems like it,
anyway. The fans at Yankee Stadium are a little closer to the field.

Q. You, yourself, and Rick Reed have both said that his cumulative innings this year
have had a lot to do with the way he's been able to pitch recently. Is that the
predominant factor, and if so, is it the innings, or is it the fact he's had a break
somewhere recently?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I'm not really smart enough to know that. I can't tell you why he
feels better right now than he did last year at this time. And it's different for
different people, obviously. To be able to use guys in the bullpen in between starts this
time of the year means that they're not tired. They pitch a lot of innings; so I don't
really know what it is. Right now it's just good that he's feeling good.

Q. Bobby, is the absence of Cookie Rojas, has that had any negative impact at all?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Just those subtleties of what it's like being in the dugout. We're
doing it a little differently. You turn, and Bruce isn't there, or you turn and Cookie is
not there. There's a little uneasiness, I think, but we're adjusting.

Q. Do you think the key to getting back in the series is getting production from the
middle of the line-up?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, I think it could be better. I don't think it's necessarily the
key. It wasn't the middle of their line-up who has beaten us for two games offensively. We
need to score more runs than they do, and we'll be back in this thing.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT