NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 14, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby, if you can talk a little bit about Al Leiter. Every time he's pitched in a
huge game, he's come through. What is it about him that he's able to elevate his game?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: You know, I think I said this a couple of times now. I think when you
have really good ability and you're pitching in an important game, that ability comes out.
And Al is a real talented guy. He also wants it. He enjoys the limelight. He doesn't mind
answering questions. He doesn't mind being put in the situation to be the guy responsible.
So he's there, and he does a good job at it, very good job. 
 
Q. Bobby, when Mike Piazza's career is all over and all the stats are there, would you
guess that his postseason stats will be similar to his regular season stats? 
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: As long as there's a large enough number. And being Mike is going to
be here for a while, and we're going to be a good team for a while. I think it will get
quite large. If we deal with large numbers, they will all equal and even out. Mike's a
fabulous baseball player, a great hitter, and I think he's going to get real hot. 
 
Q. Bobby, what about Rickey Henderson's condition, and is anyone else on the team
feeling any flu effects?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, I think it's a little tough to decipher between flu and what
everyone is feeling after getting in at 3:00 in the morning. But no one really complained
today. Ricky felt better. "Not great," he said, but he felt better. He wasn't
having those migraines or feeling like he had to vomit; so I guess that's good news. And
he should be okay for tomorrow, and as I said, it seemed like Dennis Cook was a little
under the weather, but he's the only one. 
 
Q. Bobby, what do you make of Rocker's remarks that the Mets fans are stupid, is that
going to come back to haunt him when he walks in here?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: How many Met fans has he met? That's kind of interesting. I don't know
about haunting. He's another one with really good ability. When you can throw 96 and throw
it where you want it and have a hook like he has, I guess it's easy to make any comment
you want to make. 
 
Q. Can you comment on Yoshii's condition, especially his left ankle, and are you
planning to use him if it goes to the fifth game?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Yeah, he's in the training room as we speak, and his ankle is getting
treatment. So it's not 100 percent right now. Right now, our rotation is for 3, 4, and
we'll see how he feels before we make that decision. 
 
Q. Just given your comments about yesterday's game that you should have pulled Rogers,
how have you done in terms of kind of decisions that keep managers up all night,
second-guessing? I know you got in late; that the plane was late?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I wasn't up all night, no. I slept on the couch here, as a matter of
fact. Just one of those things. You make thousands of decisions. When Rickey came out,
when I put in Melvin Mora, if he happened to strike out a couple of times, and Benny was
on the bench, it would have been one of those things where I would have said: "I
should have put Benny in." Melvin did a good job. Kenny is the same thing. If Kenny
got a ground ball doubleplay there and we come in that inning 2-2, it would have been the
next inning. So that's the way the game goes. When you leave a guy -- when you have a
crossroads and you leave a guy in and he gives up a homer, then it was the wrong decision,
I think. That's usually the way it works. 
 
Q. What do you think about Yoshii's pitching in Atlanta, the opening game of this
series?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I thought he pitched fine. He kept us in the game. Made a couple of
pitches up on his own; one to Boone that he hit up the middle in the first inning, and one
to Weiss that he hit down the right field line. Other than that, he made good pitches, and
that's all we ask our guys to do, go out and give their best. His best was pretty good
that day. 
 
Q. Bobby, you admitted that some of the things you have done haven't worked out well.
Bobby Cox, on the other hand, pretty much everything he has done has worked out perfectly.
Do you think those kind of things even themselves out over a series, or is that something
that concerns you; that you might have a bad series like a player might have a bad series?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't know. I don't know if it's bad or good. Good series or bad
series, I don't know if they really get rated that way. I don't really care about it
evening out. I just care about how the players play. In two games, bringing in Smoltz is
really high-risk. I guess it's not that high-risk, if he feels good. But it's high-risk if
it doesn't work, because he hasn't relieved. When he feels good and he's throwing like
that, then it works out perfectly. 
 
Q. Bobby, do you think the struggles in the middle of the line-up have afforded you
with what Atlanta's pitchers are doing or more with your hitters?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Again, it's two games; so it's hard for me to really put a finger on
it. I thought that Mike just missed a couple of pitches yesterday. I thought that John hit
-- the entire defense shifted around; he hit a bullet over the bag at first that Hunter
somehow was playing on the line to catch; had a line drive to center with two strikes that
Andruw came in and caught. I thought Robin's swings, even though there wasn't a lot to
show for it, he was right on a couple of those pitches. I don't know that the swings or
the approach of their pitching has been dominant one way or another. The results have
definitely been less than we prefer. 
 
Q. Does this team have added confidence because you've been in that tight situation
before, the last game of the season and the extra playoff game and all that stuff?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, I don't think we fear anything. I think lack of fear sometimes
is defined as confidence. But it's not an enviable situation. I'm sure if we had our
druthers, we'd have the 2 on the other side of the ledger. But we're going to come out and
play our game tomorrow. Al is going to be out in the middle of the diamond. And if we get
a couple of breaks and a couple of hits and score some more runs than they do, then it's
2-1, instead of 2-0. 
 
Q. Mike said earlier that the danger in a series like this is if you are trailing,
thinking you can change things with one swing instead of going up there with the mindset
of just get hits and string them together. Do you agree with that, and if so, how do you
reinforce having the right mindset when you go up there as a manager?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, yesterday, we weren't trailing for much of the game. We had a
lead for about 6 innings. I don't know if we had that mindset. 
 
Q. What do you think the mood is going to be like tomorrow night here with the fans?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I think after a wait, a long wait, I think the fans are going to be
excited. And I think that they deserve to be in this situation of excitement. I think the
weather is going to be decent for us. So the house should be rocking. 
 
Q. Bobby, I've asked you about home field advantage in the past. Considering that
you've had such bad success in Atlanta the past two years, having lost 13 of 14, the
simple fact that you're back at home now, will it make everybody a little more comfortable
and help loosen guys up for this game?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: You know, the home field advantage really is that you bat last. When
you have the added excitement of a playoff game, I think there might be some added home
field advantage. So will it help? It sure as heck shouldn't hurt. I'm counting on it. 
 
Q. You guys have played the Braves 14 times, and I guess it's 11-3 in their favor. Do
you feel that you're behind in a series 3 out of 11 right now?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't really feel that. Trying to get an answer for that is
difficult. We've played a lot and haven't been that successful. It seemed every inning we
played, we had a chance to win the game and win the inning. It's been frustrating. No
doubt about that. They beat us 16-0, we didn't have a chance in any of those innings, of
winning a game. But for me, I think those things even out eventually. And I think that
balls that hit the foul pole, miss the foul pole, it turns around after a while, if you
keep playing tough. We lost the lead yesterday, then the 8th inning we're battling, and
the last inning we come up with one swing to tie the game again. So it's not like there's
a defeatist attitude or an attitude that we feel that we're up against something -- an
immovable object. But we've been moving for a while, and it's moving very slowly. 
 
Q. Why does it move slowly, though, against Atlanta? You did not have much regular
season success against the Diamondbacks, either, and had tremendous success --
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Sounds like it hasn't turned yet for me. If you watch the games, it's
what it looks like. The Diamondbacks beat us 7 out 69, and in a game there, in Game 1 when
it was 4-4, things turned. After we left the bases loaded, we hit one over the fence. And
we haven't had that turn in these series yet, but when it does turn, I think it starts
turning in the right direction, and sometimes that motion is then an unstoppable motion. 
 
Q. To sort of follow up on that, then, the idea in your mind then isn't so much whether
you can beat Atlanta, but how many games it would take; in fact, you have five chances
left, theoretically, now. So is it a question of would it take five, or do you need 50
games against them?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: God if I know. It's similar to Tom's question about Mike's at-bats in
the playoffs. I don't know how many at-bats he needs and how many games he needs to catch
up or to right the course. And I'm not sure how many we need. But one thing I know if you
watch it enough, follow any sport enough, right now, we need four-out-of-five, and that
kind of streak is in our favor. 
 
Q. Did you talk to Ordonez anymore about the bunt play he made yesterday?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Mickey did, yeah. Mickey Brantley did, yeah. 
 
Q. Is that the kind of thing that you never want him to do again, or do you understand
his mindset about that at-bat?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: We understand the mindset, and it just was maybe something that could
have been done later in the game. Maybe a better situation is one out than no outs. It was
a good intention. It wasn't like trying to throw the game or anything. It was well
intended. Just probably wasn't -- it was just a little surprising. It would have been good
if they were surprised instead of me being surprised, that's for sure. 
 
Q. Is tomorrow desperation time, and are you thinking that you might make changes
quicker than you would normally if things start to go a little wrong?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: There's no way to tell. Al is going to be starting the game. So
quicker or slower, just have to see how that plays out. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT