NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 13, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How close did you come to taking Rogers out after the walk and home run to Jordan?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, real close, and I should have done it. No doubt about that. I
had no reason to keep him in. I left him in, and it was a real -- absolutely the wrong
move.

Q. Bobby, what's the key to stopping this onslaught, that this team continues to beat
you? What's the key, what do you think the key to this is?

BOBBY VALENTINE: You mean one thing? I'm not sure it's one thing. Just a lot of things
put together. And if we put the right things together, a close game can turn the other
way. You mean today's key? Today's key was leaving the pitcher in.

Q. Was that a safety squeeze with Ordonez in the second inning?

BOBBY VALENTINE: No. No safety squeeze. He was bunting in his own. I thought he
probably could push it by the pitcher and run in, run over, I guess.

Q. Did you think it was a good play at the time?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I was surprised by it. Kenny wasn't bunting, either; that was a
miscommunication.

Q. What is the status of Rickey Henderson? Was he really bad before the game?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I didn't hear anything before the game. After his first at-bat, I saw
that he was struggling in the dugout a little. I found out that what he said. He said he
was just a little light-headed, and it looked worse than that as the game progressed.

Q. How did Piazza's hand feel today after a night game?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I haven't had time to go in and talk to Mike yet, but he had some
pretty aggressive swings.

Q. Bobby, how does the one, two punch of Rocker and Smoltz rank?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Millwood pitched real well, and then he was followed by Rocker and
Smoltz, who both have great stuff. And they made big pitches that were, I guess,
unhittable.

Q. Why did you keep Rogers in to face Perez? 

BOBBY VALENTINE: Just what I said. I had no reason for that. It was just not the right
move to do.

Q. Did you think to keep Andruw Jones from stealing?

BOBBY VALENTINE: There were a lot of things that went through my mind. It was just the
wrong decision.

Q. Bobby, do you think you might go with Moore now, even considering the situation --

BOBBY VALENTINE: I haven't really considered that.

Q. Bobby, could you elaborate a little bit on what some of those things were that you
thought about?

BOBBY VALENTINE: It doesn't make any difference what I thought about it. It was the
wrong move.

Q. Bobby, why was it the wrong move?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Because the guy hit a home run and we got down by two.

Q. In summing up Rogers' performance, was it basically a good outing?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I'm not sure the pitch to Jordan was a bad pitch. It looked like a
change-up that he went with and hit this side of the foul pole, and Cedeno missed the
other side of the foul pole. The pitch to Perez was a change-up that cut into him, instead
of going away from him, that was not a very good pitch. And walking Chipper with a 2-0
lead wasn't the best of worlds.

Q. Bobby, you said there was a miscommunication on Kenny's bunt. Did that happen with
Bruce?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Kenny had the bunt on the first pitch, and I wanted to show that in
case there was a pitchout. After that, Bruce had taken it off for the next two pitches and
Kenny didn't see the takeoff.

Q. Just a general attitude of the club heading back to New York now?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, again, I haven't been in the clubhouse to tell you about the
general attitude of the club, but I'm sure they're glad to get home, and we'll be bearing
down, trying to get us a victory.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT