NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 13, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bobby, how important is it to pull out a victory today?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: This is a big game for us, obviously, because it's the game we're
playing. But we'd sure like to go back with a win under our belts. 
 
Q. Bobby, how have you all played in inclement weather, or however much you've had to
play in it?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: We were on the bay there in Flushing, and we have quite a bit of this
rolling in on us. We've had games that have -- it's been there for a while, and we've had
a lot of delays, but we've played it. I don't really know our record. We will have Jay
look that up, he has one of those stats there, I'm sure. We're okay. We play in it. We
don't have that much speed; so it's not one of the things we worry about. 
 
Q. Bobby, in 1988 Orel Hershiser said after losing Game 1, Tommy Lasorda came in,
happy-go-lucky. What was your demeanor today when you came in?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: When I came in, none of the players had seen me. That was about 10:30.
But now that I'm walking around, I don't know what my demeanor is. It's one of the -- I
feel good about today. 
 
Q. Do you talk to the players?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I try to talk to the players, yes. When you have a situation like this
and the media isn't allowed in the clubhouse, and you have a rain delay where batting
practice is probably going to be inside, in that span of four hours or so that you're all
hanging around in the same confined area, you get to see just about everybody more -- I'm
sure more than they want to see me. So far, I've talked to about 12, 13, 14 of the guys
who were here early. 
 
Q. Why did you come in so early, Bobby?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Because that's what I do. I get a workout in; so I'm not the training
room when other guys are in the training room. And then I go into the weight room there;
so I'm not using any of the equipment the guys might want to use. And I eat and take my
shower and go over all the things from last night, look at last night's game and get
ready. 
 
Q. When you talked to those 12 or 13 players, what was your general message to them?
What were they saying back to you?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: It really wasn't a message. I asked them what they were having for
breakfast a couple of them, and I asked a couple of them about lunch, because they got
there a little later (laughter). We talked about the schedule for tomorrow, the workout;
if they thought the passes were okay for their wives. We had a lot of conversation this
morning. 
 
Q. Any specific message about what you need to do today in today's game?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Individually, no. They know. We've been through this going on 170
times now, and this is a game we're going to play. We know what we have to do. I think
there will be a little pregame thing, as there has been just about every playoff, but it
will be very short and brief, and it won't be anything traumatic. 
 
Q. I don't know if these are the guys you talked to, how was Yoshii's ankle, how was
Piazza's thumb, and what did they have for breakfast?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Mike's not here yet. Yoshii's ankle is sore. He has been in the
training room. It doesn't feel that bad, but there's definitely something there, that
hopefully, treatment will cure. I don't know what he had for breakfast. Johnny Franco was
into the donuts early, and Cook had lunch. 
 
Q. How much of a factor was the thumb for Piazza last night, and do you think that's
the kind of thing he can adjust to over a couple of games here?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: He didn't complain at all about the thumb. He never mentioned it. I
checked with the trainer just about every time they brushed up against each other. He had
no treatment that I know of after the game. I think the adjustment is to the Atlanta
pitching, and just the fact that he hadn't played in a few days, getting his timing back. 
 
Q. Bobby, you said during the previous series that in talking to this team "less
is more"; that whole notion of talking to a team before a big game, is that
overblown, or is there a particular time when it's useful, or is it more useful with
certain teams than other teams?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: You know, I think the team meeting is a little overblown. I think
there's a perception out there that you have that talk, and it really gets the guys up and
inspired and emotionally high for the game. I think at times in a season that's necessary.
When we played Atlanta at home, I felt it was necessary. I think we had a pretty good one.
They are far and few between, and I think they can be overdone and work in reverse of what
you're looking for. I think it isn't the team sport that's played by individuals. The game
itself is on the scoreboard, and the game-within-the-game is the pitcher against the
hitter. And I think if you can ease or direct the minds of the individual in the proper
direction or a few individuals who might need it, it's a lot better to do that
individually than to try to do it in group form, where that individual might be staring at
the clock or tying his shoelaces. 
 
Q. How many games in a season do you think a manager can make the difference or has the
manager made the difference?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I have no clue. Some seasons it might be a lot. Some seasons it might
be a few. I have no idea. Some teams, it might be a lot, and some teams, it might be a
few. 
 
Q. Bobby, can you talk about the way Al Leiter has been pitching and why he responds so
well to big game situations?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I remember answering that question when I was a young guy about Reggie
Jackson; why in the world does he respond so well? I always thought it was because he had
better talent and he used all of his talent in big games. I think Al Leiter has very good
talent. And I think in these games that are important, he doesn't leave anything in the
locker room; he leaves it all on the field. And his stuff, like, Greg Maddux of yesterday
who has better talent and rises to an occasion, sometimes talent prevails. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT