NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 12, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Reaction, Bobby?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, be a little more specific, please. A lot of things happened.
Just to the game? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Hard-fought game. Battled them to the last out. They got some hits
when we didn't. They made some pitches when we didn't. They deserved to win the game. 
 
Q. Can you talk about Maddux and what he had going on tonight?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, he's Greg Maddux. He doesn't have all those trophies because
he's lucky. He's a terrific pitcher, and he made good pitches tonight when he had to. He
worked both sides of the plate; threw some curve balls early in the game. Did a good job,
very good job. 
 
Q. How much was Yoshii affected by whatever the injury was he might have suffered on
that play?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: He sprained his ankle on the play, and I thought Yoshii pitched his
butt off, and hung a split to Boone in the first inning and got a ball up to Weiss there
in the 5th. Other than that he made super pitches; pitched out of jams, and really was
matching Greg inning for inning. 
 
Q. Bobby, in the 5th when you had the infielders charging with the pitch, what was the
thinking behind that, were they trying to throw Williams off a bit?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: It wasn't to throw anybody off. It's just an infield-in play. We get
to the position just like anybody else does. It's an infield-in play. 
 
Q. Do you think the Cedeno thing was a big thing later on with a 1-0 game at the time,
the squeeze?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: At the time it was a real big play, sure. Had a chance to tie it up,
and missed the squeeze. 
 
Q. What was it like not having your regular third base coach tonight?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I thought Bruce did an excellent job of trying to do both jobs. We'd
rather have Cookie, obviously, but we worked through that very easily. 
 
Q. Did Piazza seem to have his normal swing or was he hindered a little bit?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I think his timing might have just been off a little. He felt okay
with his hand. Never complained about it. 
 
Q. Bobby, how tough is it to get the offense going with Robin struggling against these
guys?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, it's a whole team, there's no doubt about that, Robin comes up
four times, and we'd rather have him hitting, but we've won a lot of games when he hasn't
hit. And tonight, he was on a lot of pitches that he just missed; so I think he's getting
really close, here. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT