NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 11, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Was the strategy during the regular season to pitch around Chipper, and in this
series how determined are you not to let him beat you guys?

BOBBY VALENTINE: At the risk of not sounding like a wise guy, we played a three-game
series here, and he hit four home runs. We weren't pitching around him. You have to make
good pitches to this entire team. The Atlanta Braves scored just a few fewer runs than we
scored; that's a lot of runs during the Major League regular season. They didn't do it
with one man providing the offense. You have to make good pitches. I always feel when you
have a super talent, and Chipper is a super talent, that one of the great things you want
to do is get the guys out in front of him and behind him because it's almost impossible to
shut down guys who have excellent talent. I don't think that answered your question, but
it's the best that I could do.

Q. Do you have to just wait until Mike works out before you can make any kind of
announcement or anything about it?

BOBBY VALENTINE: We have to watch him work out, and we might even be prudent enough to
wait until tomorrow morning. Obviously, if he can't play, we'll have to adjust our 25-man
roster. It seems as though he can. He said he felt good. He had full mobility in it. He'll
take some batting practice and catch, and then we'll make sure it's all right tomorrow
morning. But it looks better.

Q. Which is more of a concern, the hitting or the catching, with Piazza?

BOBBY VALENTINE: If it's bothering him, if it's hurting, then it will affect his
hitting. If it's weak, then catching will affect it. I think if we put that thumb
stiffener in there, the thumb guard that they use, I think that he'll probably be able to
catch fine. But if it's hurting, it's tough to hit.

Q. John Rocker said earlier today that he was shocked, and he used that word,
"shocked"; with all the talent the Mets have that you didn't have an easier time
getting in the playoffs; and, in fact, surprised you didn't beat the Braves. Would you
comment on that?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Geez, that's a pretty good talent evaluator. I have -- I don't know
how to comment on that. I guess he feels we underachieved, is that what the comment was?

Q. I would take it to mean that.

BOBBY VALENTINE: Yeah.

Q. Do you address the team at all about what happened against the Braves in the regular
season or do you try to avoid that and not dwell on that?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't think I'll avoid it. I don't think I'll address it, though,
either. I think it's part of where we've been, and hopefully, we learn from it so that we
can get to where we want to go.

Q. Bobby, other than scoring more runs, is there something that your guys have to do
that they haven't done against the Braves this year?

BOBBY VALENTINE: If I really knew that, then I could say we have the definite plan and
we're just going to put the plan into attack. But I think what we're going to do is go out
and play the game, and when the games are all over, we'll be able to look back and say we
either did enough or we didn't do enough.

Q. Rotation?

BOBBY VALENTINE: The rotation is Yoshii, Kenny Rogers, off day, Al Leiter, Rick Reed,
and then we will announce after. But those are the first four games.

Q. Can you talk about the way that Alfonzo has played during this postseason, were
there any particular games you wanted to mention, but overall in general?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, I'm more of a general guy than a specific guy. And if you gave
me that specific game, I'd talk about it. But he's just an outstanding player that needs
to be reckoned with. He gives you a great at-bat and has a plan when he goes up there. And
a lot of times, if there's a mistake made to him, he could do as much damage as anybody in
the line-up.

Q. Bobby, of the Braves you said so far "They've shown us very little
respect." What did you mean by that?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I never heard them say anything other than we underachieved. That's
one of the only comments I ever heard them say about us.

Q. Can you recall in all your years in baseball there being the potential for this much
animosity in such a big series?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Animosity? Our guys are loving, caring, good fellows, who just go
about their business and just love to play the game. I don't think that there's any
animosity on our side. 

Q. Bobby, is animosity brought about by serious competitiveness on both sides, not just
between the Mets and the Braves, but just in general?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I guess. Maybe I'm not defining in my mind "animosity"
properly. I think in our clubhouse, I think there's a great deal of respect for the
Braves. I've never seen anything come out of our clubhouse other than respect for them. We
like to compete against them, and we probably took exception to some of the little things
that might have been done or said, but that all happens in the game of baseball. I don't
think that any of those little things have taken the forefront, really, in the minds of
the guys. The competition is what's at hand and they've been the champs and they are the
champs, and we're trying to take it away.

Q. Can you talk about approaching Greg Maddux?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Again, I don't think there's a real secret there. If there was, the
number in that win column would be a lot less every year. It's not a secret -- no secret
what he throws, and it's hardly a secret when he throws it. It's just that he makes very
good pitches that our guys have got to be prepared to hit the good pitch or jump all over
the seldom bad one.

Q. Can you talk about your reason for having Rogers in Game 2 and Reed in Game 4,
rather than the other way around?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, it really seemed to be the consensus of everyone when talking
with Dave and Al and Steve. My thought is it was more on-line; that's the way we started
the last series, Yoshii and Kenny Rogers. And we did all right, that's been our rotation
for the better part of the second half. There really wasn't any major determining factor.
We felt we had a good pitcher either way we went. It would mean a really long rest and
wait for Kenny, and would mean a little extended rest for Rick.

Q. If Mike's thumb is okay and he plays, do you think that the time off he's had from
catching will help him otherwise?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I was smiling there. I thought you would say: "Is he going to
start if he's okay." I think the time off is absolutely what the doctor ordered for
Mike. Catchers are -- it's a tough chore. There's no doubt about that. Everything that's
been said about late-season fatigue; that is a natural situation with a catcher who
catches over 140 games is accurate when it's reported and talked about. Mike had no break
at the end, and that was my -- that was kind of my mistake. As it turned out, it got
rectified. I think right now if we went five games with Arizona, and Mike hadn't gotten
hurt, I think he would have had to have an off day, regardless; so he got two of them. And
I think he's going to respond quite favorable. And probably with the schedule, being it's
two off, three off, two, the rest of the way, he should be fresh the entire time.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT