NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 9, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What's the Piazza situation today?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: He is a little better, maybe able to pinch hit if all the treatment
kicks in. It is still swollen. 
 
Q. Will he take BP?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: We got we are going to try to maybe late BP in the cage. 
 
Q. Looking ahead if you were to win today or tomorrow, has his progress been enough
that you think another couple of days he would be ready to play Tuesday?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: No way of me telling after 24 hours but they thought it should be
better, whatever. 36 hours or 48 hours or sometime there it should get better. 
 
Q. Knowing that if you lose today would you go back and face Randy Johnson in Arizona
and that he may be due to win a game one of these years. Does that give you anymore sense
of urgency today?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, there is no doubt that this is a really big game, most important
game we are going to play mainly because it is the game we are playing and you know if we
have to go to Arizona we have our bags packed, we will go to Arizona. 
 
Q. Is Mike's progress worse than you expected? Yesterday you seemed to be a little bit
more optimistic that the swelling would go down. Is it not going as quickly as you
expected?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: If I could be real honest with you, I went in the training room and he
wasn't there yet and you know, when I was coming out here I just got a report that said
that he is here and still swollen, can't play. So I haven't seen him. 
 
Q. Were you surprised he wasn't in the training room yet?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: No. I wasn't surprised that he wasn't in the training room yet. 
 
Q. If you reflect on the past week to ten days when you started winning, I guess with
the Pirate series and you look at the game the other night where Stottlemyre beat you, was
that a case of Stottlemyre being so good in shutting your guys down or your guys just
having an off night maybe just a letdown from what had happened?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I thought it was a game that they deserved to win and when we had guys
on base like we had guys on base last night we got hits or walks and continued the inning.
The Stottlemyre game we got guys on base, we didn't continue the hitting. Just happened.
We got the guys on base, just Ricky got a bloop in last night and we got a bunt down last
night that we didn't get down in the Stottlemyre game, I think those things are important
to win a game. They were important last night and hopefully they will be important in the
game today. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT