NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 6, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about what Rickey Henderson has meant to the team, not just on the
field and off the field, but his personality and things like that?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, Rickey definitely has personality, and he has a style that's all
Rickey. I think that basically we have a bunch of guys who are workmen-like, who go about
their business in a rather professional, but also without much flamboyancy. And Rickey has
brought a balancing act to that, where he has -- you know, his picks and with the home
runs and some of the things that he does that are unique to him and Rickey's flare are
appreciated by our older guys on the team. They don't mind it. I think other teams would
worry about it and let it be a distraction. But he's added a lot to our team. 

Q. Bobby, this year, Alfonzo's numbers are up; any one thing you can point to for the
change, maturity or what?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't think there's one thing. He understands his swing better. He
has -- obviously, success breeds confidence, and he's had success; so he's been more
confident. But I think he's gotten away from the thought that he's going to be a guy who
gets a single to right. He's a guy that can do a lot more than that. That's been kind of
drummed into his head. And I think he has a brother who coaches in our organization who is
a very good baseball man and they talk often, and I think his brother has been a great
influence on his development. 

Q. Bobby, has Kenny Rogers been the pitcher you thought he would be in mid-season or
has he surprised you?

BOBBY VALENTINE: He's not exactly the pitcher -- doesn't exactly throw the stuff I
thought because I had remembered him throwing different stuff. He surprises me with his
curveball, something I didn't know he had developed so well. He's a much better pitcher
than I remembered. Other than that, I'm not very surprised, and he's almost what we're
hoping for -- or what we expected. He's everything that we had hoped for. 

Q. Can you talk about your feelings last night. When the guys are on the line, guys are
out shaking hands, can you talk about what was going on in your mind at that time?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I'm not sure if I had a special feeling. I was enjoying the moment. It
really wasn't -- you know, pregame introduction is pregame introduction; and obviously,
I've never done that before in this time of the year. But I've done it a lot of times
before; so it was tough to really differentiate. But I was enjoying the moment. I liked
the energy that the guys had when we were coming out of the dugout. 

Q. Is the team still tired?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Those things are true, the flights have been different, and the
schedule has been rigorous, but we have gotten sleep. It's not as though we're playing
extra-inning doubleheaders. So there has been some bedtime, if you will, in between games.
I think that as -- as everyone this time of the year experiences some fatigue and maybe
our team has a little more of that than other teams because we didn't get a break at the
end of the season. We're still professionals and guys know what it takes to take care of
themselves enough to rebound the next day. 

Q. If you head back to New York 1-1, will that have a bearing on the rotation?

BOBBY VALENTINE: We'll make that determination tomorrow. Rick Reed is definitely
pitching on Friday. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

BOBBY VALENTINE: It wasn't a thought or it wasn't mentioned before yesterday's game.
And I'm not sure now that we won the first game that necessarily has to be talked about
before this game. You know, you never know what has to be said or what doesn't have to be
said. With this group, I have found that less is more because they are intelligent; they
are experienced professionals. 

Q. Have you talked to Alfonzo about doing more than just hitting to right field; his
potential?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't know if it's me, but we've had two hitting coaches, and they
have both stressed to him, as well has his brother, the importance of him having good
posture in his swing, not bending over to hit to right field; being a good hitter at all
times but also taking on situations where he could be an exceptional hitter. And, you
know, I think there has been explicit comments made about how good a hitter he is, how if
he could get a hit like he did in in New York on Sunday where he got a tough pitch and he
did -- with two strikes, he hit a base hit to right field, but how he could also take on a
3-1 fastball and drive it out of the park. Some guys have to be one or the other. Eddie
has the ability to be both -- Edgardo has the ability to do both. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT