NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 6, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Did all the consecutive games in a row finally catch up with you tonight Bobby?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't think it necessarily caught up with us. Todd Stottlemyre
pitched a good game. Pitched a couple little bangs that didn't go our way. You know,
you're not going to win 16 in a row. We still need some more wins. We got one here and
we'll go home.  
 
Q. Is Rogers injured at all?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: No. He just wasn't getting his curveball over very well. We thought
Pat could go through the middle of the lineup for us.  
 
Q. The heart of the order was 1 for 13. What do you think they did to keep those guys
down?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I'd have to go through all the at-bats to give you any specifics, but
they made good pitches to keep the guys from getting hits.  
 
Q. A couple things tonight went wrong. Do you think the team was a little tired after
the last couple days?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Things that went wrong, no, I don't think -- Roger made a terrific
throw to the plate. A close play there, a high hopper hit up the third baseline. I don't
know if it would have gone foul. We had Roger bunting through a bunt that, you know, Robin
got caught in No Man's Land, but I don't think that had anything to do with being tired.  
 
Q. How bad did the team need the day off?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: We get a day off tomorrow and we'll take it, that's for sure. I can't
think of anybody that could use it. Our guys could use it a little. They are battle worn.
These guys are veterans that have played their butts off and they played well again
tonight. We just didn't make things happen and they got a couple big two-out hits,
two-strike hits. It was on for them. There's two alternatives, and it's preferable -- one
of the alternatives . Is we won one and lost one here, and we'll take that, and as we
mentioned, the off-day tomorrow. But there is a media session some of the guys will
participate in, and we'll try to come back strong on whatever day of the week that is that
we play.  
 
Q. Can you talk about Rickey and talk about what he's doing in the lead-off spot?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: He's swinging great, stealing bases. Can't ask anything more. He's
been on base. I guess he has four stolen bases in two games. Swinging the bat well. I
can't ask anything more. He's been great. Two terrific games.  
 
Q. (Inaudible).
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I didn't think it was a real struggle tonight. It wasn't a give-up
situation. The three runs they scored, we had two strikes on Gonzales and a curveball
backed up and hit him, and Williams got an infield hit and two-strike ground ball to
right. He could have left with two runs in five ins. That's not so bad.  
 
Q. (Inaudible).
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: The franchise is young, but a lot of veterans on their team. They know
what they need to do. Stottlemyre seemed to take the bull by the horns. Finley and Matt,
who have been there before, knew what they had to do.  
 
Q. Can you talk about your Game 3 matchup with Omar Daal?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: I think I'll have to do that tomorrow. I'm not prepared for that right
now.  
 
Q. Can you talk about anything that sticks out in Arizona that you can take with you in
the series in New York?
 
 BOBBY VALENTINE: Their team, you mean? I don't remember it. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT