NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 5, 1999
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bobby do you have any feelings for the 11 o'clock games back east?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Absolutely. First off, it is what it is and there's no changing it.
I'm not here to gripe about it, but it sure seems unfair for our fans that not only -- not
only do they have to stay up real late, a lot of them can't go to their favorite place to
watch it because by the 5th inning or so, there's establishments back east that get
closed, especially in the middle of the week. I think it's really weird. No, we never
close. That's all part of it. People are going to be interrupting their work schedule,
don't want to miss part of the game and it gets weird, I think. 

Q. When did the celebration end in Cincinnati?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I wasn't really keeping track of it but it wasn't too late. It was
about 11:30, I think when it seemed like about a quarter to 12:00, and, you know, we just
showered and got on the plane, and we got here about a quarter to 2:00, I think. 

Q. Bobby you've waited a long time for this. Can you talk about the emotion going into
the playoffs?

BOBBY VALENTINE: You know a lot of the emotion when the game starts tonight the house
will be rocking, and the fans -- it's the first time for the Arizona fans, too. They
haven't waited as long as the Met fans, obviously. But I think that there will be
continuous highs of emotion, hopefully by some created on the field, but a lot of us are
excited to be here for the first time again. And, you know, it's the first time I think
the Mets and the Yankees are in postseason together. I think that's kind of neat, too, a
little added excitement. It should be exciting, no doubt about it. 

Q. Bobby, can you go over your last roster moves and how you came to those decisions?

BOBBY VALENTINE: You mean Lopez not being on the roster? And Bobby Bo? You know, kind
of a late-night decision that we looked at the last couple months of play, and we saw that
Bobby Bo had actually gotten in more games than Lopez had. And when we tried to predict
what the next five games might replicate, we felt they would probably be in a similar
situation as we had in the past two couple months. I mean, Luis hasn't played very much.
You know, the way we look at it is that if it was Bobby Bo and Luis, that being the
scenario, and I don't know if it necessarily is that, you know, I kept -- I just kept
staring at that and I wondered if, in fact, if Al was going to come back and pitch Game 5,
which he very well might and we're not that far down into our rotation schedule, but if
there's a Game 5 and Al comes back and pitches that, that means that really Orel won't be
starting. Maybe we could have kept Luis on the roster instead of Orel, but again, over the
last couple months, we've used our bullpen a lot more than we have used our utility
infielder. 

Q. Can you talk about the lift that Orel gave and you will you use him in the bullpen?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Obviously, we don't play Monday unless we won Sunday, and Sunday
happened to be -- on Sunday was the biggest game of the year, and he came up real big. It
was a huge lift. Mainly, we haven't had to bring Al back on short rest, and he gave us a
chance to get our offense good enough to win that game. He will pitch in the bullpen if we
need him. He'll be available.

Q. Has Bobby made a difference since he came back from the minor league rehab?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I'm trying to think of the difference. I guess, again, I don't spend
too much time in the players' clubhouse. I think that that's their domain. I haven't heard
much negative comments from anyone's demeanor in the clubhouse, particularly Bobby Bo's. I
don't know if we're doing this because he's a nicer guy now than he was earlier in the
season or whatever. I think it's because we think he has a chance coming up of getting a
hit and helping us win a game. 

Q. Your thoughts about Randy Johnson?

BOBBY VALENTINE: All of them? I can't give you all my thoughts on Randy Johnson.
Terrific pitcher. Tough to hit. Great competitor. I don't think our guys are intimidated
by anything, but he definitely is different than anybody else in the league right now, and
his slider, if he's getting it over when he's behind in the count is a devastating --
creates a devastating situation because it's real hard to pull the trigger on it. His
fastball is real, real good. And we'll have two left-handers in the lineup tonight that
will have to really hang in there and battle. 

Q. Can you talk about Kenny Rogers start tomorrow night and why the Mets went out and
got him?

BOBBY VALENTINE: We went out to get him so that he would have an opportunity to start
tomorrow night. And at the time, we were looking for a quality left-handed pitcher, we
were looking for someone who was athletic, preferably who was athletic, could hold
runners, and work with one of our strengths of our team; that's our infield defense. He's
been able to do that by throwing ground balls and holding runners well and fielding his
position, also. 

Q. If Al goes in Game 5, what are your options?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, we'll just have to see how that all works. I just jumped ahead
on that if, in fact, that's going to happen. After that, we're into an off day. I hate to
make any of those definite statements that can be changes. In the postseason, I think you
have to be flexible in most everything you do right now. 

Q. What advantage does Bonilla give you as a pinch-hiter and what situation do you
think he best fits?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I think he gives a threat of power from both sides of the plate. He
hasn't hit much right-handed in the game. We all know that, well-documented. Yet with a
short roster to have a switch-hitter, it's still a bit of an advantage to the middle of
the game, have a guy be able to move over to the other side of the bench and swing the bat
and get you back in. I think mainly his experience has to have some kind of play, some
kind of factor, and what he's capable of doing and hopefully that will be something very
positive on the field. 

Q. Can you talk about postseason experience?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't have it well-documented in my mind, but I do remember right
before he came. The year before, he had to go into the egg there in Tokyo where the Giants
play and beat them in one of the deciding games of the Japan Central League Championships,
championship season. And then he went on to postseason play. But probably the -- you know,
in his mind, playing in the -- his own league at the end of the game when at the end of
the season when teams are very close, being able to pitch in the Dome against the Giants
is as scrutinizing and challenging a job as any pitcher can have, I think, anywhere in the
world.

Q. (Inaudible.)

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, you know, they are just not going on adrenaline. We have a lot
of talent and a lot of strength and plenty of endurance. But I think the adrenaline is
going to help a little. We'll just see. I think if anyone says -- if anybody's gait is a
little slower at this time of the day, if anybody is getting up off the bench or whatever
it might be a little slower than normal, I think that's absolutely expected, and I
understand it. Yet when the game has started, I have seen the athletic excellence that you
expect out of these highly-touted athletes. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT