MLB WORLD SERIES: METS v YANKEES
October 24, 2000
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Did Rick Reed not have really good stuff last time out that made him less aggressive? It does seem curious that someone who had pitched credibly in the past would suddenly be nervous. 

BOBBY VALENTINE: I think Rick's nervous all the time, as Al is and Mike, and all the starting pitchers before the game.  I think everyone has nerves, adrenaline.   Last time, I didn't think he had very good command.  He didn't have it in between starts, and he didn't have it warming up.  It was a problem, a mechanical thing.  He's had some time to work on things here with Dave Wallace, and I think he feels really better.  And that's good news, I think. 


Q.  Is your team at all angry over what's happened in the last couple of days? Even a healthy angry they could funnel on to the field?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  It's always very difficult for me to say that the team has one mind and the team is angry.  But we'd rather be 2-0 or 1-1, and we're 0-2.  So I think that's enough to stir up some emotion; and hopefully, we'll bring it out on the field. 


Q.  What's your reaction to the fine for Clemens announced today? Would you like to have seen more done, or was that sufficient?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Again, that's not my department.  Unless they're sending it to my favorite charity, I don't really give a darn. But I'll be glad to give the address and credible numbers, if that's what they wanted to do. 


Q.  The team you're playing obviously four years ago came back from an 0-2 deficit starting on the road.  The fact that you'll be trying to make a comeback at home, does it make it easier to sell it to the guys that this is realistic?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I don't think there's any sell that can be accomplished here.  The guys think that they're a good team.  They felt that coming in.  I think they feel that now.  I don't think that we're talking about disguising anything other than the reality of what it is  - that we have to play our game, and if we do tonight, things will look a lot better.  If we do it again the next night, it will even improve.  But the matter at hand right now isn't history, and it's not the future.  It's the present.  And the present is for us to go out and play the kind of game we're capable of playing. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT