MLB WORLD SERIES: METS v YANKEES
October 24, 2000
Bobby Valentine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  It was a no-call decision you had to make taking out Rick, the way he was pitching.  It had to be a tough call for you.

BOBBY VALENTINE: Boy, I'm trying to think about taking Rick out.  Yeah, I thought he was pitching really well, too.  But at the time, that seemed like the move to make.  He'll be plenty rested in case we need him to pitch again this series. 


Q.  Can you talk about your decision to go with Agbayani today against the right-handed pitcher and what Agbayani has done for you this year?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I'd love to talk about Agbayani ,because we're here because of him.  He's been one of many key players on our team.  But he's been key, and yeah, I was a little baffled by people who followed our team all year thinking that maybe he shouldn't play today.  I never considered him not playing.  I never considered pinch-hitting for him, and I'm glad about that. 


Q.  After the two difficult losses at Yankee Stadium, can you talk about the emotional importance of a win like this beyond other factors?

BOBBY VALENTINE: It's a difficult win, too, but we'll take it.  We were a couple swings away from winning over there; we got the swings today.  We made the pitches today.  It seems like a light-year's difference between 3-0, 2-1, and it's 2-1. 


Q.  Did the home field help at all in this particular case?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Our fans were really good.  Probably not as loud as they are during the regular season.  But then again, with the price of tickets, it's probably not the same people sitting in the seats.  But it's great to play here.  But we played the same game basically, minus a couple of mistakes. 


Q.  You talked about not hitting for Agbayani.  In the sixth inning, you didn't hit for Bordick, whom you hit for in critical situations in the first two games.  You didn't hit for Payton, poor record with the bases loaded this year.  Did you consider hitting for one or both, and would you explain your reasoning either way?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Just wanted to win the game.  I thought that was the best way to win it.  Keep them in.  Sixth inning, we had a tie game.   Bordick hit El Duque the best of anybody in our line-up the first two times up.  He had a terrific at-bat the other time.   The sixth inning, I'm not going to take out our best centerfielder, and I'm definitely not going to break any spirit that he has going right now in the sixth inning of this game.  And, more important, as I told the guys on the bench, the sixth inning I'm not going to show any panic and try and take the entire team out of the game  -- the team that got us there.  And I said we're going to win this game either now or later, and we did.


Q.  To follow up, did you tell them that because  --?

BOBBY VALENTINE:  Because I believed it in my heart. 


Q.  Zeile was holding runners on in a conventional way today.  Is that going to be a pattern, or is it just for today's game?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I'm sorry, he does that conventionally with right-handers pitching, and left-handers, he was off the bag. 


Q.  Could you talk about in terms of spirit, what this outing did for Armando's spirit?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Well, again, this is the same idea.  We're not winning this thing without Johnny having Armando at his side, and we needed him.  Johnny did his job.  And it was time for Armando to do his, and he did. 


Q.  You mentioned the difference between 2-0, 3-0, and 2-1.  Is there  -- perhaps looking from outside, when you win the game, it looks like now it really is a series; whereas before, it was one-sided.  Is there any of that feeling on the team or in the clubhouse?

BOBBY VALENTINE: I think baseball fans, and I'm one of them, have been watching the World Series for the last few years, and it hasn't seemed like it's been real big competition.  I thought we were in those first two games, but you could only go so long saying they were close games.  If we didn't get a victory tonight...  So we got a victory, we broke a little streak.  Now we have to come out and do a job tomorrow. 


Q.  There in the  sixth inning there, it could have really been a momentum killer, bases loaded like that, not getting anything accomplished.  What did you tell the guys after that inning to sort of pick them up?

BOBBY VALENTINE: You don't have team meetings, obviously, during a game.  But they were saying all the right things.  We tied that game up right there.  We're playing our game.  We're playing in our ballpark.  We have our bullpen rested.  Once we got 2-2, we felt we had a good chance of winning. 


Q.  When Zeile hit that double down the line, he tried to bunt on the first pitch, and then it didn't look like a very good bunt attempt.  Is that why you took that off?  Why did you decide not to have him bunt after the first one?

BOBBY VALENTINE: Actually, I thought incorrectly that I would have him bunt on the first one, get a fastball on the second pitch, and that he could drive because they might have thought the bunt was still on, and he threw a breaking ball and he still got a hit. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT