ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 8, 2015
Daniel Vettori
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Dan, your best figures for a while.  Did that reflect actually how well you bowled?  Was it as well as you bowled for some time?  DANIEL VETTORI: Not necessarily.  I think obviously any form of the game you can bowl well and not take wickets and vice versa.  So once again just trying to fulfill that role of being as economic as possible, and the wickets came today, and that doesn't always happen, but it's great when it does.   Q.  The conditions were a little more helpful than you expected as well?  DANIEL VETTORI: I think the wicket was a touch more warmer than it generally is here.  Normally when you turn up, it's pretty pristine.  Hasn't been played on for a while, but the other day between Pakistan and UAE, it was a little more warm.  It didn't necessarily turn, but I think it was a bit slower than we're used to.   Q.  Was that first 1-over spell for you a change of ends for the seamers or had it been a prediscussed tactic early?  DANIEL VETTORI: No, it was just a change of ends.   Q.  So nice on that first one.  DANIEL VETTORI: Some things work out well sometimes.   Q.  Brendon said yesterday that you would have batted first if he had won the toss.  When you guys were asked to bowl first, especially you, were you licking your lips a little bit having run for a few teams early lately?  DANIEL VETTORI: No, not at all.  I think there was a lot of respect around the Afghanistan team.  We scouted them pretty hard because they've got good players and they have a nicely balanced lineup, and you saw that today with the way they were able to counter attack.  So it's always a good wicket here.  I think if you're going to restrict teams to under 300, traditionally you have a chance of winning. I think we went into it thinking it was going to be a tough day, no matter whether we bowled first.   Q.  Did that match tick a lot of boxes in terms of you had to bowl deep?  Guys like Ross and Grant got a bit of time in the middle.  Seemed to get a lot out of that one?  DANIEL VETTORI: Probably for you guys more than us.  I think you guys are the ones who want the box ticked.  I think we're just looking at it as we're trying to win games regardless of the situation.  I think that's important to us that we keep thinking that way, because if we get caught up in trying to work through a check list of what's right and what's wrong to try to win a World Cup, it's not going to work.  It's purely about winning games, and that's what we've been able to do so far, and we can hopefully continue in the important knockout stages.   Q.  The match you watched of South Africa last night, what are you making of their progress so far?  DANIEL VETTORI: I think it's like a lot of teams.  As you get through those quarterfinal stages and that's where it really starts.  So all the teams that eventually make it have got match winners in it.  So you can't sit back and say a team's not in form or haven't played well because you go into it thinking that a team's going to play their best. You look at the caliber of players and look at Pakistan as well, India, anyone that would come up against in that quarterfinal is going to be a tough opposition.  So I think it's the nature of the way we look at things.  We look at it through I suppose a positive prism that they've got good players.  There is not no real thought that they're out of form or not playing well.   Q.  Is it difficult in such a period of time to look quarterfinals, semifinals, just a couple of games.  How is it for the guys to stay at that level?  DANIEL VETTORI: It takes a little bit to acclimatize to because we're so used to playing every three days in the particular series we had before between Sri Lanka and Pakistan, it was very tight.  To go from there to a quick start to the World Cup and have six, seven, eight days off and three or four games in three and a half weeks, it takes a little to get used to.  But in some ways you get to rest up and be fresh going into those games.  So those are positives and negatives total.   Q.  300 ODI wickets now.  You spent a long time out of the game rehabbing and obviously a lot of hard work went into that.  Does today offer you an opportunity to reflect on the achievement or is it a matter of focusing on the next match?  DANIEL VETTORI: I suppose I went into the World Cup not really thinking about that that much.  I honestly didn't believe it would take this many wickets and this few of games, so it will be something nice to look back on. But I think we are caught up in the middle of the World Cup.  There is an important game on Friday, and probably the most important game of our careers the following Saturday.  So maybe in a month or so's time there will be a chance to look back on it.   Q.  Talk about Afghanistan and your thoughts on how they played today and looking forward whether the 10-team World Cup is the right way to go to help teams like Ireland and whoever?  DANIEL VETTORI: I look at Afghanistan, and that is the beginning of a very good team.  The way they're balanced out, they have fire power through their lineup, and their three fast bowlers are particularly impressive.  When you have three guys running over 140, that's going to give you the ability to win games at that top tier level.  So I look at all the teams that have performed in this tournament have done so at a high level, and particularly Afghanistan.  I think they've got the makings of an exceptional squad.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT