THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 14, 1994
Alberto Berasategui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Hello.

 Q.  Tough match, Alberto.  You seemed to really be in control
of the match.  Where do you think it got away from you and why?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  I think one of the keys that I lost the match
was in the 3-Love in the second set and I had 15-40 and he make--
he did two aces and then I had another breakpoint, but I didn't
play as well as I was playing.  But anyway, I had a lot of chances
and I am happy the way I played, because I played a really good
match.  Let's see if I can play next tournament like this.

 Q.  Did you get tired at all, fatigue was a factor at all?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Yeah, I got tired.  I was tired at 6-1, 3-Love
already but when I make 6-1, 4-1, my shots were not as good as
the first set.  He started to come to the net because my shots
were shorter and shorter and I think that also was one of the
keys that I lost the match.

 Q.  I know this is a clichÃƒ ©, did you feel that you
were in the zone for a while everything was going your way?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Well, I was playing really well, but I don't
think I was in a zone.  I mean, that is the kind of game I play
I run around my forehand and that is my best shot I have, and
I think he didn't play as well as he started to play in the second
set, but maybe he let some shots short in the court and I could
finish with my forehand but I don't think I was --

 Q.  You hit 2 second serve aces at that point; that seemed
like you were just so confident?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  I was confident because I was winning so easily,
but those second serves, I was serving every time to his backhand
and I had to try to hit once to his forehand, so --

 Q.  You had second serve aces 115 miles an hour, and there
was kind of a delay between the first and second serve.  Did you
forget that was a second serve or did you deliberately hit it
that hard?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  When you try to hit an ace with that second serve,
I mean, you just hit it the hardest you can.  I do not think if
I am going to make a doublefault, I don't care, but I mean, maybe
the little thing was broken, but it was 115; that was a lot for
my second serve.

 Q.  It seemed throughout the tournament even the higher seeded
players, the unranked players have given the top seeded players
so many problems in this tournament; it seems like anybody can
go out there and win.  Did you feel like even though the other
players are getting all the headlines; that you can go out and
beat anybody on any given day?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Yeah.  Last year I beat also Bruguera on clay
court.  I think any player can beat the top ones.  It doesn't
happen on girls.  Usually they go to quarters or semifinals, 6-2,
6-1.  The guys they go, I mean, most of the matches are really
hard.

 Q.  Alberto, how long did it take you to develop that forehand,
I mean, because you hit it with the same side of the racket as
you do with your backhand; you just don't pick up the racket.
How long did it take?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  I think it was because when I was little I didn't
have too much power and that is the way I hold my racket; it gives
me more confidence.  I started to play like this when I was 7.
 It got better and better.

 Q.  Are you Basque?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Yes.

 Q.  Do you ever play jai-alai?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  I try to play, but it is a hard game to play
and I only tried it twice.

 Q.  Seems like a lot of kids in the Basque region grow up
playing jai-alai and tennis is kind of a secondary thing?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Yeah, tennis is not like a growing sport in the
 Basque country.  They play more jai-alai, and other kind of games,
they don't even know.

 Q.  Do you have friends that play here in Miami?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  I know a few guys, but they are not really friends,
but I know a few guys that play.

 Q.  Do you feel in order to get to the next level that you
have to improve your backhand because Michael was obviously attacking
your backhand?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  I have to improve a little bit my backhand, but
I don't think I have to improve it so much, because I mean, the
backhand at the first -- in the beginning of the match my backhand
was the same as the second set and I was winning 6-1, 4-1 but
I think I have to improve a little bit coming to the net, take
my forehand and make a good shot and go to the net.

 Q.  Do you think you will be playing Davis Cup next week?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Yeah.  Well, I mean, I am in the team. I don't
think I would be playing because Bruguera and Costa are better
ranking; if they get --

 Q.  The doubles?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  The double, no.  Not for me.

 Q.  So you think Bruguera and Costa will play singles?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Yeah, that is probably the team. Bruguera, for
sure and Costa, it depends on the captain, but I think he will
play unless he gets injured or something like that.

 Q.  Do you know anything about the Italian players Gaudenzi
and Pescosolido?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Gaudenzi, I played him under 18 tournaments.
 He is my age.  He plays very well and Pescosolido, I played him
here.

 Q.  Did you win?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Yeah, I think those two are the ones I have played
there.

 Q.  When you at 6-1, 4-1, were you nervous about winning the
match or did you think, okay, I got him?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  I got a little bit nervous, but when I got really
nervous it was, I think 4-3 in the second set when he broke me.


 Q.  You went in the third; he had won about 10 games out of
11 or something like that.  Then you came back and broke him making
it 4-2 in the last set.  Did you think that was your shot to get
back in it?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  I thought that was going to be -- I was going
to win that game to make 4-3, but I was tired at that point and
I didn't have so much luck.  I had two or three advantage with
my serve and I couldn't win them game that was it.  5-2 and I
was finished.

 Q.  Did you ever hit any one with your forehands whether intentionally
or not?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  My father.  No, I never hit anyone.

 Q.  Is he okay now?

 ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Yes. 

  End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT