REPUBLIC NATIONAL MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 24, 1998
Alberto Berasategui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Were you a little bit afraid to lose the match when you lost the first set?

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  I was afraid because I had the chance at 5-4 in the first set with my serve.  I lost it.  I didn't play so good on that game.  Then he came with big serves.  He played well during those games, and the won the set.  But I think he was getting a little bit tired and tired, a little bit more and more.  I got lucky at 6-5 in the second set.  Then on the third set, I thought he was a little bit more tired.  I make an early break, and that helped me a lot to win the match.
  

Q.  But you thought he could be playing as good as he did?

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  He played -- well, I think he served good today.  He was playing all right from the baseline.  But he was -- I think he was playing smart  against me.  He was coming into the net, the most he could. Always he had a chance, he went to the net.  I think he play well like with the tactic.  But I thought he was going to maybe miss a little bit more serves.
  

Q.  I'm sure you've been asked before, but what in your opinion is the main reason of your strong comeback this year?

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  I think I've been working maybe as hard of what is concerned about tennis, I think I've been working about the same.  But I think I've been working more this year on my physical thing.  I used to have a lot of problems with cramps.  Now I think maybe I have them also, but at least I can play maybe two hours, two hours and a half, maybe three hours.  I saw in the Australian Open I could play long matches.  I feel on the court I'm strong physically, I can play for a long time.  The way I play, I have to play with a big rhythm because I have to always look to get my forehand and run around the most I can with my forehand.  But also the other way, I make my opponents run a lot and make them play with a big rhythm.  They get tired. Maybe this year I'm winning a lot of matches because of that.
  

Q.  What do you think about your match tomorrow against  Cedric?

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  It's going to be tough.  Last time I played him here in Monte-Carlo, I won.  But that was like '95, I think.  He's playing good tennis.  I think he's confident because he arrive to the semifinal.  It's going to be a tough match.  He knows how to play all game around.  He has a good serve, good volley, good groundstrokes.  It's going to be a tough match.  I know the public is going to be against me, but also was today, so I'm prepared for that.
  

Q.  Is there a special tactic to play against him or you have to play your own game?

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  No, I'm going to try to play my own game, like I play normally, just try to get my forehand, try to win points with my forehand, and be as steady on the baseline.  If I have a chance to come in, I probably will try to come in a little bit more like today.
  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT