ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1994
Alberto Berasategui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  So, how do you feel now that you have been to  your first IBM/ATP World Championship?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Much better.  Now I  guess it is finished and I know what this is now.  Maybe I couldn't play my 100%, but it is a new  experience for me to be here, and I am happy for that  because I think I work hard to be here all the year,  and I hope next year I can be here too.  I like to  qualify, and if I have to do it the same way like I did  this year, I will try again.  


Q.  You are not upset or frustrated not winning  one set?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: No, I am not frustrated  because I came here; it would be difficult for me to  win a match, and I am not upset because of that.  


Q.  Sergi has come a long way on indoor and hard  surfaces.  What do you think is the reason for that?  How do you explain what he has done?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Well, I guess he start  training more on this kind of courts, and I think this  year, especially, he played a lot of tournaments on  these kind of courts, and he is a very good player.  He  can adapt himself to these kind of courts very easy.  So I think that is why he is a good player, because he  can play on all surfaces.  The main reason, maybe it is  because he has been to a lot of tournaments and because  he is playing on these kind of courts.  


Q.  Does that give you any hope, the fact that he  has done it, he is a clay court guy, and a Spaniard,  does that give any hope to yourself knowing that he can  do that?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, it gives me hope  to improve to play better on these kind of courts.  I  know I am not going to be a specialist on these courts  ever and I think he can be a specialist because he has  the game to be a specialist on these courts.  He has  proven it in Paris, Bercy; he got to the semifinals and  if he got there, that is why he is a good player on  these courts.  And the thing I am saying that I want to  improve on these courts, but I don't think I am ever  going to be a specialist like Sergi.  


Q.  What does Sergi have to enable him to play  well on these types of surfaces?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Combination.  It is the  way he moves.  He is big.  He has a good serve.  He can  go to the ball like he reach; big power on the court  and that is good for this kind of court.  The main  reason, probably about the grip and the way he returns  and his serve.  


Q.  Alberto, you know, with so many negative  things said this week about you in the press  conferences by other players and so forth, during the  clay season next spring, if you meet these guys on your  surface, is it going to be revenge time?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Well, I am going to try  -- if I play any of them, I am going to try to beat  them, but I don't have to do that as a revenge.  I  don't want any revenge against them.  I mean, they can  say that I am not a good player on these courts or  whatever they say, I don't know, but I think I am a  worker of tennis and maybe they are cracks (sic) - I  don't know, but I think of myself as a worker of  tennis, and I don't think of myself as good as maybe as  they are, or whatever, but if I am here, it is because  I qualified and because I did a good year.  


Q.  Are you going to study how to go to the net  in the future?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, I will try that.  Like I said before, I am going to try to improve on  these courts.  That means I am going to try to improve  my serve a little bit; try to go to the net more to  finish the points there, but like I also said before, I  don't think I am ever going to be a specialist.  


Q.  You are going to play Wimbledon?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, probably so, I  have to see how my clay court season goes and then if  it goes well probably, I go to Wimbledon.  I don't play  clay court beginning of the year.  I have to look where  I am going to play.  


Q.  You are going to Australia?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: No, I am starting at  Dubai.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT