ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1994
Alberto Berasategui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Did you expect to lose that quick?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  First of all, no.  I  thought it was going to be a harder match, but I think  he played very well and after the first two games when  I fall, I couldn't hit with my forehand, it was so hard  because my finger hurt a little bit.  But anyway, that  wasn't the reason why I lost, and Agassi played very  well today.  


Q.  Alberto, Andre said that although he thought  you were a legitimate participant here; that the system  was wrong; that somebody who has played all the major  tournaments on clay should qualify for the Top 8.  Do you have an opinion on that?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Well, if the tournament  on clay will be as much bigger as the hard court  tournaments, I wouldn't have to play so many  tournaments; maybe the tournaments that are on clay,  they are so small, I have to play to qualify for here.  I am going to be doing this for the next year.  If I  qualify for the Masters, it is better for me.  If not,  it is because the tournaments on clay are so small I  cannot qualify.  


Q.  Do you think the ATP Finals maybe should  rotate the surface every year?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Well I would like that,  but that is probably in the hands of the top players.  They would probably say they have the last word, and  the top five, top six players, they like to play on  these kind of courts and I don't think they are going  to change.  


Q.  Alberto, you are a top player now in the  world.  Are you going to claim for that?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Well, I would like to  claim, but maybe Bruguera makes the claim for that, but  I don't think they are going to listen to us because I  guess they have so many interests to play on the hard  court that it is going to be difficult for us.  But you  have to say something; we can say something, but...  


Q.  Do you think in two or three years time you  could be a strong force on surfaces other than clay?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  I could improve, but I  don't think I am going to be a specialist like they are  on these type of courts, but next fall I am going to  play -- I am going to train on hard court; and my first  six or seven tournaments I am going to be on hard court  and I guess I am going to improve, but I don't think I  am going to be a specialist on those courts.  


Q.  Do you ever remember losing a match like you  did today?  

ALBERTO BERASATEGUI:  Well, not for a long  time, but I -- probably, in my career, I probably lost  a few matches like this, but this year, I don't think I  lost this badly, but I mean, I don't care, I just went  there; I am happy to qualify for here for Frankfurt,  and it is -- for me it is the same to lose 7-6 in the  third like 6-2, 6-Love.  It is a loss.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT