ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1994
Alberto Berasategui
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How is it for you; you played on clay all the  time and now you have to play indoors?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Well, it's going to be  difficult for me, but my dream was to come here and it  came true, and I'm going to try to do my best.   
 

Q.  How many indoor tournaments have you played?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: This year?   
 

Q.  In your whole life.  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I don't know, five, six,  seven.   
 

Q.  That's it?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, that's about it.   
 

Q.  This year I think you won in four?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, I think.  Maybe  more, around four or five in my professional --   
 

Q.  Does it seem kind of funny to you that you  worked all year -- (Inaudible.) -- to play indoor  tennis at the end?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Well, it's funny the way  I qualified but I have to do it this way.  I'm ready to  repeat it next year.  But I'm going to try to play a  little bit more hard court indoor and try to save some  points from clay court.   
 

Q.  How difficult will your strokes be on a fast  indoor court?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I think it will be  difficult for me because of the way I play, but I never  thought of qualifying for here, for come to Frankfurt,  and just to qualify for me is an honor.  If I win one  match here I will be really happy.   
 

Q.  You needed a special set of circumstances to  have it.  How optimistic were you when you went down to  South America and started playing?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Well, before going to  South America I knew it was very difficult and I knew I  had to do well because I had to also to defend one  final champion, and I knew it was hard but I won those  two tournaments in San Tiago and Montevideo, and I was  hoping Edberg and Stich to lose and it happened.  Stich  lost and that gave me pass for me here.   
 

Q.  Does it mean that much to you?  Does it mean  that much to all the guys to be here?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I think so.  For a  tennis player I think to come here to the World  Championship tournament, I think, is the most important  thing.  Maybe to win a Grand Slam is maybe more  important, but for me, I love to be in the French Open  final and to be here is the second most important in my  tennis career.   
 

Q.  Alberto, how do you feel about the whole  year, now looking back on it from what happened; from  the beginning to the end?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Well, I think the year  was great.  I won seven tournaments, two finals, one  semifinal and I think qualifying for here in Frankfurt  was really like the kind of great thing to come here  for the good year that I did.   
 

Q.  Are you really clear in your mind about what  things improved in your game this year as opposed to  last year?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I don't think I improved  so much my tennis.  I improved my physical training and  I got more experience than other years, and I think  that that's the way I improved a lot, but I don't think  my tennis improved a lot.   
 

Q.  So you don't think it was your strokes, it  was mentally?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, more experience  and more physical, and that I started the year very  well winning in Nice in the same tournament I beat  Courier and Edberg and that gave me a lot of  confidence.   
 

Q.  Was it tough here physically, tougher than  before?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, I think it was  tougher than the past years, of course, because I had  to play a lot more tournaments and I got to the finals  of some, but I think I'm maybe more mentally tired and  physically tired.   
 

Q.  Alberto, you say you had more physical  training when you started out the season.  Did you know  you wanted to be in much better shape, and what did you  change?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I wanted to improve  because in clay court you have to have a good serve,  because the way I play I have to run a lot most of the  matches.  And I have to improve my physical training  because I used to get tired in the first set and I used  to cramp in a lot of matches.  And I guess I worked in  the right things in the beginning of the year with my  training and that helped me out a lot.   
 

Q.  What did you do?  What sort of things -- more  kilometers, weight training?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, more kilometers,  yeah, long distances running, farlix (ph).   
 

Q.  Farlix?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah.   
 

Q.  You mean like you jog and you sprint and jog  and sprint?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Exactly.   
 

Q.  And compared to say the beginning of the '93  season when you were getting ready for the year and the  beginning of this season, how much more did you do?  Were you doing much more?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, much more than the  other years.  This year I work about maybe -- before  the beginning of the year I work for two hours training  and maybe three of tennis.   
 

Q.  And then in '93 what was it about?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: '93 it was -- I think it  was less.  I don't know, maybe one hour a day of  physical training.   
 

Q.  How many times would you say that you -- I  know against Sergi in Monte Carlo you have a problem  when you got tired, how many times did that happen to  you just this year; just that one time or did it happen  other times?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Well, it happened that  time, that was the worst time, but at the French Open  final at the fourth set I started to get leg cramps.  In other matches, I think there was in Monte Carlo with  Bruguera.   
 

Q.  Just those two?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah.   
 

Q.  In this city there's a homemade grape called  apple wine, did you ever hear of that?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: No.  Well, it's the  first time that I came to Frankfurt and I never heard  of that.   
 

Q.  Are you surprised that you qualified for the  Masters because you never played on any other surface  than clay?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Well, I'm surprised with  the way I qualified and also because this will be the  third or fourth time I play indoors, and because the  way Michael Stich lost, I got a little bit lucky.  But  I guess I have to thank Michael.   
 

Q.  Who is your coach?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: My coach is Javier  Duarte and he's been my coach for about five years now.   
 

Q.  And there's superstitions in your way to play  tennis to win the tournaments?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: No, I'm not  superstitious.  I try to do my best but I'm not like  that.   
 

Q.  Do you like soccer?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I like soccer, yes.   
 

Q.  What do you say about German soccer?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I think they're one of  the best in the world.  They won the World Cup as you  know, and I think they're on the top.   
 

Q.  When was your last tournament, two weeks ago?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: No, four days ago,  Buenos Aires.   
 

Q.  You just came?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I just came from Buenos  Aires yesterday, and I arrived in Barcelona and I came  today -- I arrived here today, this morning.   
 

Q.  How is it being among the eight greatest  players in the world?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Well, I think it's  great.  I never thought I've been here qualifying for  Frankfurt, and to be one of the eight guys that  qualified for here.   
 

Q.  People see you as the underdog in this  tournament.  Some say you have no chance to win even  one match.  How do you see yourself in this tournament?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Well, it's going to be  hard for me to win a match but I like to be underdog  because I don't have any pressure.  But I'm going to do  my best and if I win, better for me; if I don't, it's  fine.   
 

Q.  You just came back from Buenos Aires?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, I came back  yesterday from Buenos Aires.   
 

Q.  Did you have any breakfast?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, this morning with  my coach I had breakfast.   
 

Q.  Your first match here is when?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Tomorrow -- well,  tomorrow I'm playing Andre Agassi.  It's going to be a  hard match for me; I guess because he's been playing  well in this kind of court.  There won't be anyone as  hard as Agassi, and I think that means a lot.  Like I  said before, I'm going to try to do my best.   
 

Q.  Alberto, you just came from clay.  Do you  intend to change your game here or plays?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: No, just the same.  I  don't think I have to change my game very much.  Maybe  I go to the net a little more, but I think I'll play  about the same.   
 

Q.  The courts are fast here or --  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: They're not so fast.  They're a little bit faster than in Bercy, but I don't  think they are so fast.   
 

Q.  Why do you play clay courts last, because you  just like to play on clay?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Because first of all, I  prefer to play on clay and I was close to qualifying  for here for Frankfurt, and I thought that if I go play  clay court in South America, then I have a good  chance.  I win there and I qualify.   
 

Q.  I think people found that you are a very  funny guy.  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I am the way I am.  I  don't try to be funny.  I am the way I am and that's  it, I guess.   
 

Q.  Do you think you can be similar in the future  to let's say like some entertainer like -- (Inaudible.)  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: No, I don't think so.  I  don't think I could be a showman like -- I don't know,  maybe Connors or McEnroe or Agassi.  I think on the  court I am, like, a shy guy.  I don't show any emotion  a lot of times.  But out of the court I try to be a  happy person the way I am.   
 

Q.  What has been the funniest thing for you this  year?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Well, there have been a  lot of funny things but -- I don't know, maybe qualify  for here for the final tournament.  I think it's funny  because I never thought I'd be there so -- maybe  meeting the King of Spain.   
 

Q.  Alberto, when did you actually first set foot  on an indoor tennis court?  How old were you the first  time?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: The first time I played  a professional tournament?   
 

Q.  Even training, anything?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Well, I was seven  because my father has an indoor tennis court near where  we live, so I started to play tennis on indoor court.   
 

Q.  You started playing tennis on an indoor  court?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yes, I started playing  tennis on indoor.   
 

Q.  On clay?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: No, cement.   
 

Q.  So he had a cement hard court?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, it was covered,  and it was much faster than these ones are.  But when I  was 10 or 11 I started to play in clay, and that's most  of the guys -- that's what they do in Spain, to play on  clay, and that's why we -- the Spanish guys can play on  clay.   
 

Q.  You should have deep down inside of you  someplace this natural ability to play indoors, right,  because you started at seven?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah.  I mean, that's  when I started to play indoor, but like I told you, it  was much faster than this court and it was almost  impossible to play in there.   
 

Q.  It was like playing on wood almost?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, it was very, very  fast.   
 

Q.  When did you play your first tournament  indoors?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Indoors professionally  was in Mercedes here.   
 

Q.  How about not professional?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: In the United States  when I used to live there for a few years, and I went  to a national tournament.  It was in Chicago, I think.   
 

Q.  Indoor court in Chicago?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, it was an indoor  tournament.   
 

Q.  Do you know how old you were?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I was about 14 or 15  years.   
 

Q.  I heard about your habit eating chicken  before your match.  Can you tell us about other habits  -- maybe unusual habits?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I don't have many  habits, but if I have a habit, if I'm superstitious,  it's like if I shower maybe one day and I won the  match, I try to shower in the same one.  But I don't  have like habits of eat the same food or anything.   
 

Q.  You shower at the same time or you shower in  the same shower?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: The same shower.   
 

Q.  You have many showers to choose from?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Well, if the shower is  -- another guy is showering at the same time so --   
 

Q.  In the locker room you mean?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, in the locker  room; I go to another one, but if I win the match, the  day before I shower -- I try to shower in the same one.   
 

Q.  Are you very superstitious?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: No, no, no, that's the  only thing I do.  And if the shower is free, if not I  go to another one.   
 

Q.  When did you first meet Sergi?  How old were  you?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Well, I guess when he  was a junior.  I was 16.  I played national under 16  and he played junior.  That's probably the first time I  meet him.  I didn't get to meet him, but I knew -- I  saw him playing.   
 

Q.  Did you guys become friends right away?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: No, after I play him the  first time in Spanish National Championship like about  three or four years ago -- four years ago.  I play with  him for the first time and after that we got to know  each other and --   
 

Q.  Do you see each other when you're back in  Barcelona or no?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: No, no, we're friends  like I'm friends with the other Spanish guys because of  the tournament, and we travel to tournaments together.  All the Spanish guys go to dinner together or lunch,  and that's why we are friends, so...   
 

Q.  When you think about what will be next year,  will it be a very difficult year for you?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I think it will be  difficult, yeah, if I don't lose points.  I mean, I  never thought I'd be so high in my ranking.  If I go  down, I won't care because -- I can tell you, I never  thought of being so high.  But if I go under 20, I  think maybe the next year I think I go up again, so...   
 

Q.  What did you think, Alberto, in your head  before the year started when you were saying how high  can I go?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I started the year 36,  and my goal was to finish the year in around that  number, maybe before the 30s.  But I started the year  winning these, and I beat Edberg and Courier in the  same tournament and that gave me a lot of confidence.  And after that tournament I started to win more  tournaments, and now the French Open final which I  never thought of doing in a tournament there.  And I  don't know -- like I tell you, I never thought I'd be  so high. If I go down in my ranking next year, I won't  care.   
 

Q.  So what do you have to do for your goals for  your game?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I have to improve hard  court and indoor courts, and next fall I'm going to  work on --   
 

Q.  This fall?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, this fall I'm  going to work on playing on outdoor court and indoor,  and my first tournament is going to be in Dubai, and  it's going to be hard court.  I'm going to play about  five or six tournaments in hard court, so I'm going to  try to improve on those courts so I can --   
 

Q.  Why do you want to do that, you're obviously  doing great on clay right now, why do you want to --  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Because play on clay  court, I think, I waste more of my physical, and every  point is so long, the tournaments are so small compared  to -- if you win a clay court tournament and you do  quarters or semis of big hard court tournaments,  they're not going to be the same.   
 

Q.  You say about going down, what about going  up?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I'm going to change my  schedule.  I'm going to play on hard court more next  year and I'm going to try to save some points from clay  court that I won this year.  Just about that.  I'm  going to prepare for hard courts tournaments in the  beginning of the year and the middle of the year, and  I'm going to go to the United States, do some  tournaments before the U.S. Open to prepare to win that  tournament.   
 

Q.  How far up do you think you can go based on  the way you are playing well now?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I don't know, because  when I was 36th I never thought of going so far like I  did this year.  Now I'm No. 7 and I don't think I'm  going to go very much farther because there is not too  many numbers before 7 so...   
 

Q.  Win a lot of points by winning the French  Open though?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, after that I'm  going to try to win it and get more points.   
 

Q.  If there was one change in men's tennis that  you would like to see to improve the game, what would  it be?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: More clay court  tournaments.   
 

Q.  You would say that.  But the game generally  --  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Put the courts a little  bit slower because I see that -- for myself, I see that  the game now is so fast that the balls don't last like  about two seconds, and for the crowd, I think they  don't see too much tennis; they just see a big serve  and a volley.  And maybe the crowd would like to see  the shots from the baseline like maybe Agassi or that  sort like -- I don't know, like the group that we are  now, because in the other group you're going to see  base hitters and good volleys.  Maybe the people like  that, I don't know.  But if I want to change one thing  it was that.   
 

Q.  Alberto, if you had not gone to the States  for a time there, do you think you would be where you  are today?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I think I would be in  the same spot.  Maybe the United States helped me a lot  for my mental part because I think going to the United  States when I was 13 and I didn't know any English, and  it was the first time I went out of my home, and it was  kind of hard for the first few months and that helps  you a lot.   
 

Q.  As far as your game of tennis?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: I think when you are 13  you're going to improve.  If you play five hours a day,  you're going to improve in the United States or  Australia or wherever you play at that age.  Maybe the  coach has to try to teach you mental part more than the  game part.   
 

Q.  Do you still feel a special connection to the  country because of the time you spent there?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, I have friends  there, and I usually calling the Jaegers (ph) because  they helped me out a lot.   
 

Q.  When you were in the States you called the  Jaegers' house?  
 
ALBERTO BERASATEGUI: Yeah, when I'm in Spain  because they helped me out a lot, him, his wife and  Andrea.  "I'm very glad to be here and most of all because  it's 20 years since the Spanish players got in a  Masters.  I know I have a very difficult role here.  My  dream was to be in this Masters and the only thing I  can say is I'll do my best.  I know that I got to  qualify in a very funny way but I wish I could do the  same the next year.  Anyway, in '95 I will try to play  a little bit more indoors than hard court  tournaments."  "The suit is a little bit too big.  I think I  thought my height was 1.80, but it's clear that you  don't need to be so tall to be here.  Maybe they  thought that Stich was going to qualify and not me, and  therefore I have an extra 30 centimeters of clothes."   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT