ADELAIDE INTERNATIONAL
January 13, 2020
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ALEX DE MINAUR: Obviously I've reaggravated a past injury. I've had to withdraw from Adelaide tournament. It's devastating because it was a part of my schedule for a very long time. I was really looking forward to playing. But I've got to take care of my body.   
 Q.  Can we ask about what's injury is and how you are handling it?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, obviously I'm not in the happiest mood, but it's something that happens. Aggravated a bit of an ab injury.   
Look, just got to do whatever I can to make sure my body recovers. Right now my sole sort of focus is on making sure I recover for my next one.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your week at the ATP Cup, how you feel you played, what kind of positives you can take out of it despite the loss in the end?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, obviously I feel like I had a great week. I played some great tennis. Lots to learn from. There's a level I know I can bring. It's a level I need to bring out every time I step out on court.   
Plenty to learn from. Very, very excited for what's to come.   
 Q.  Obviously you talked to the physios and all that. What is their prognosis for healing?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, at the moment we're going to take it day by day. It's something that obviously is not ideal. At this stage, we're just looking at sort of short-term goals and trying to get better each day.   
A lot of treatment. I've seen the physios. I've seen the doctors. I'll be continuing to do that for the whole of next week. Hopefully I'll be ready to play in Melbourne.   
 Q.  You mentioned the level you were able to bring at the ATP Cup. In your own eyes, what have you improved the most? What are you most proud of in terms of the progress you've made so far?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, I've used a lot of stuff that people have told me that I wasn't able to do. I've used that sort of as drive and motivation to improve in those areas. I've often been told I don't have the weapons to sort of beat these higher-level guys.   
I think I sort of showed that I've got another part of my game that I can go to. Just overall mentally, physically, I think it's just a constant work in progress. I'm going to keep on improving and keep getting better. Hopefully I'll keep on breaking barriers.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT