NEXT GEN ATP FINALS
November 9, 2019
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. SINNER/A. de Minaur
4-2, 4-1, 4-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tough match tonight. How would you assess what happened out there? Was it a case of you not bringing your best, him just being too good, or a combination?
ALEX de MINAUR: I think it's honestly a pretty simple match to evaluate. The biggest difference, I had nine breakpoints and I wasn't able to convert any of them.
On that basis, you know, Jannik played a really, really impressive match. He was putting me under pressure very often. So, look, maybe if I had gotten a couple of those breakpoints early, it would have been a completely different match but ended up being that he just played too good.
Q. Just to look at your season overall, despite tonight, can you leave here tonight holding your head high with the season that you had?
ALEX de MINAUR: I don't think it would be very smart if I judge my season with this one match. Obviously I've had my best season yet, and it's all been thanks to a lot of hard work that we put in. I'm very happy to be able to sit down and know that I finished the year 18 in the world.
It's sort of a goal that we put ourselves to, and I'm very happy to be able to finish off the year like that. Now I've got Davis Cup to look forward to.
Q. Can you talk about the atmosphere here throughout the week? A new venue, but you had the crowd on your side all week long. Talk about your thoughts.
ALEX de MINAUR: Yeah, it was a fun week. I enjoyed playing out here. The crowd was great. Today was everything I expected, and rightfully so. Hometown guy, and he played some great tennis.
All the credit to him for a great year and a great week, as well. Hopefully we'll have many more battles to come.
Q. (Question about assessing Jannik's performance.)
ALEX de MINAUR: Well, I think the most impressive thing, or...
Look, obviously he tends to get the racquet out of your hands, which is probably something that I'm not used to a lot. He was playing some big shots from everywhere on the court. Look, today he could not have played any better in the breakpoints.
I think I had, maybe in the first game, I had two chances. One we got in a rally and he hit a backhand down the line, like, from pretty much the side of the court and, you know, a great shot. Then I missed a rally ball. Out of nine breakpoints, I'm pretty sure that's the best chance I had.
It's one of those days you're just, like, Look, too good. I'm sure if Jannik can keep doing that level every day, he's quickly going to rise up the rankings.
Q. (Question about Jannik's level.)
ALEX de MINAUR: Not today, no.
Q. (Indiscernible question.) You are 18?
ALEX de MINAUR: Yeah, but as I said before, with this format, rankings don't really matter, because if you look at things, then Jannik shouldn't have passed it through the group stages, you know.
So, look, Jannik is a hell of a player, and he was too good. I'm sure that if he keeps this level up, he's going to quickly rise up the rankings. He's still so young and not a lot of experience on tour and hasn't played much tournaments. Therefore, that's why I think he's where he's at, but I think come next year, that's going to quickly drop.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT