ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2019
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. De MINAUR/B. Klahn
6-1, 6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What was the most satisfying thing about that for you after such a long gap between your wins?
ALEX de MINAUR: To be able to finally sort of end this drought I've been having.  It hasn't been easy, and I really felt like I needed a win just for me personally and mentally.  And I did, you know, everything that I had to do for the last couple weeks.
And things hadn't really gone my way, but it's good to see the results finally get back.  And to be back 100%, that's the main thing.
Q. Is it on your mind anymore that injury or are you thinking about it at all?
ALEX de MINAUR: No.  No.  That's the main part.
You know, it was my first time having to deal with an injury like this.  And, you know, you get told what you're supposed to expect, and you just got to feel it for yourself.
It's definitely way harder than people tell you, because you expect a certain level from yourself and you can't really get there because of your body and lack of confidence, and all these things just seem to pile up.
But I've just been staying positive.  And I've been looking at how my level has been improving and my body has been feeling better and better, and now I'm back.
Q. And to win so well, it must do your confidence good.
ALEX de MINAUR: For sure.  And coming in here, it definitely wasn't easy because it's probably the surface where I haven't had my best results.  And to come back from injury as well, you know, it was never going to be easy.
But very proud with myself and happy with my first round win and first ever win here in main draw.
Q. What did you learn in the process through this last three months?
ALEX de MINAUR: That, you know, you really got to take care of your body.  You don't really realize how important it is until you have a little bit of a setback.  And then trying to come back from it, you know, you set up a goal when you're going to have your first tournament back and naively you think you're going to be back to the same level that you left off, and it doesn't work like that.  I had to learn that the tough way, you know.
But, you know, through weeks and weeks of playing and playing matches and getting better, I've been able to learn that, you know, I've just got to stay positive.  That's the most important thing.
Q. You were just saying about ending that brief drought.  Were you chomping at the bit to get on the court?  Because you said the other day you feel everything has come together again.  And if that was the case, did you have to try to keep a lid on your enthusiasm when you went out there?
ALEX de MINAUR: For sure.  You know, ever since Rome, I felt like my level was there.  You know, I've just been eager to sort of get back on the court and get that first win back.
You're not really supposed to think too much on results, and especially when you're coming back from an injury, but that was in the back of my mind.  And it is safe to say that I was very pumped to start today.
Q. Is clay the biggest test for the injury that you had and, you know, for your game in general?
ALEX de MINAUR: Yeah.  I mean, not a lot of things sort of went according to plan, because clay is sort of the surface where the area that I was injured you suffer the most.  A lot of sliding and trying to get back from that slide, that was very painful for a couple weeks.
And, you know, I haven't had my best results here.  It doesn't mean I don't know how to play on clay and I don't like it.  But all these things together, I felt like I didn't, you know, have a lot of luck.  But at the same time, it was a time where I didn't defend on a lot of points.
So, you know, you just got to always look at the positives and, you know, hopefully next year round.  All this season I've got a big opportunity to hopefully gain some points.
Q. Next round, can you talk about your opponent, please, Pablo?
ALEX de MINAUR: Yeah.  Obviously a Spaniard who I know well.  He's very tough on clay.  It's going to be a battle.  But I feel like I have taken that sort of burden off my shoulders of getting that first win, and now I can sort of go in a bit more relaxed and just enjoy myself out there.
And I know it's going to be a very physically demanding match, but very happy with how the body felt out there and how it's going to recover for the following match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT