AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2019
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. De MINAUR/P. Sousa   
6-4, 7-5, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How are you feeling?  
ALEX de MINAUR: Yeah, I'm feeling stoked.  Happy to be able to get away with a win today.  It was pretty hot out there, but I thought I managed the conditions really well.  Happy to get through in straight sets.   
 Q.  How is the body feeling after Saturday?  
ALEX de MINAUR: The body's feeling good.  I mean, this is why you put in the hard yards in the pre-season, to be able to back it up day in and day out.  I'm very happy with the effort I put in in the pre-season.  It's good to see the work paying dividends right now.   
 Q.  How important is it to get a couple days' rest?  
ALEX de MINAUR: Yeah, I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  I'll just take it easy.  I'll be able to really focus on my recovery and get ready for my next round.   
 Q.  Did the heat get to you at all today?  
ALEX de MINAUR: No.  I thought I handled it pretty well.  Obviously there were stages in the match where it got quite hot, but I thought I stayed tough, stayed in the moment, was able to battle through against a dangerous opponent.  Was happy I managed to get it done in straight sets.   
 Q.  How do you feel about the next round?  
ALEX de MINAUR: Yeah, this is my second time in the second round.  I think I'm a completely different player from a couple years ago.  Really looking forward to going out there, coming back, just having fun.  I think that's the main thing.  To feed off the energy of the crowd.  I mean, the support I've been getting has been amazing.  Just makes you want to go out there, compete and have fun.   
 Q.  Do you have a view on the political stuff behind the scenes, discussing the future of the president?  
ALEX de MINAUR: Well, obviously I wasn't a part of the meeting coming in.  But to be honest, since I've come in, I mean, everything has been fine.  I mean, the innovations they've gone through, brought in the NextGen for us newcomers.  Since I started playing, the prize money has gone up.  Everything has been incredible for the players.  I think it's stupid to change really.   
 Q.  Since you've come onto the tour, most of the top players have had serious injuries.  When you see Murray, are you weary of overplaying, all of that stuff?  At this point in your career, is it about squeezing everything out?  
ALEX de MINAUR: Well, I think you got to be smart about what you play, your load.  I think that's very important.  From playing a couple years now, I know what my healthy balance is to be able to perform every single time I step out on court.   
Looking through that, then you plan your schedule accordingly.  So you don't want to play too much, but at the same time you don't want to play only a couple tournaments.  It's about knowing that healthy balance, knowing your body.   
I think we've been able to accomplish that.  I'm looking forward to my schedule this year.   
 Q.  You're becoming more and more comfortable on the court.  What about main room press conferences, having to face us?  
ALEX de MINAUR: Yeah, I mean, it's sort of I guess practice makes perfect.  It's the same as I'm out there on court.  I mean, every day I'm trying to get better both on court and off court.  These are just things I got to get used to.   
 Q.  What about the driving?  Obviously new to you.  How are you finding it on the roads?  Is it what you thought it would be?  
ALEX de MINAUR: Well, I got my license in Spain.  I literally left the following day.  So I haven't really been able to experience driving too much because I had to come over here and get ready for the Australian summer, do my pre-seasons.   
But still, you know, it's something that I put in a lot of hours.  Has been very difficult for me to get because all of the traveling I do.  Very happy about that.  Hopefully once I go back to Spain, I can just drive around for days and days, just not going anywhere, just trying to get some miles under my license.   
 Q.  When you were in Spain, did you ever think that maybe you should play for Spain?  Were there some doubts about it?  When you were there, there were so many players in the top 30, 40.  Was it more difficult for them to accept you?  Did you think about it and try?  
ALEX de MINAUR: Well, obviously my mum is Spanish.  I spent a lot of time in Spain.  I was born in Australia.  I've really always felt Australian.  Growing up and watching the Australians play, especially in Davis Cup, I just remember always wanting to be a part of that.   
Australia has such a rich history in tennis.  I felt like I just wanted to be a part of it.  So I've always felt Australian.  I think there's nothing better than representing the green and gold.   
 Q.  Last year you had a great experience in Milan.  How important was that?  
ALEX de MINAUR: Yeah, it was really important.  I mean, there was a great group of guys playing there, a very high level.  To be able to finish off how I did, I was very close to finishing with a win.  Still, extremely proud of my efforts.   
One of the main things I wanted to do in 2018 was to back up my level week after week.  I thought I did that tremendously well.  To be able to come back in the last tournament of the year where you're not feeling your best, you're tired, body is a bit fatigued, to come out and play some good tennis, just come short in the final, I was very happy with myself.  Obviously gave me a lot of confidence coming into 2019.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT