SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 10, 2019
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. DE MINAUR/J. Thompson   
7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I guess you have got to be happy with that, straight sets?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, very happy.  It's never easy coming out and playing a fellow Australian teammate and a guy that I have grown up with, someone that I have looked up to as an older brother.   
Very happy with my efforts here.  I knew coming in it was never going to be an easy task, and he was going to leave it all out there.  I'm very proud of my efforts.   
 Q.  Speaking of playing against an Australian, you might meet John.  What are your thoughts about going up against him?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: We all know John.  He's one of the most hard-working guys out there, both on the court and off the court.  He's a hell of a guy.   
You know, I hope he can, you know, have a great battle today and get the win, and then it'll be great to have two Aussies in the semifinal.   
You know, we have hit a lot with each other, we have played Davis Cup, we have been alongside, and he's one of those guys that I really learned a lot from and has really pretty much had me under his wing, you know, especially first couple of years on tour where there is a lot of things that were new for me, and he's always really helped me out.   
 Q.  Where are you at going into next week?  Can you feel how much your game has come along in the last year?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, I'm very proud where I am.  Obviously coming in here was very different, a lot more expectations on me now.  I feel like I have dealt with the situations really well, focusing on what I need to focus on, which is me going out there every single point and just competing.  I'm happy to be able to get the wins, as well.   
 Q.  Have you had a chance to see the draw for next week?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: No.  I'm focused on this week and what I have to come.  That's a semifinal coming in tomorrow.   
As soon as I'm done here, then it's time to focus on the week after.  But at the moment, I'm right here, staying in the moment and looking forward to my next match.   
 Q.  (Question about draws.)  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, I don't know anything about draws or anything.  Look, I've just got to focus on doing the right things and looking after myself, listening to the great group of guys I've got around me and just keep doing what I'm doing, keep trying to improve every single day and getting out there and competing.  That's all I can ask from myself.   
 Q.  There is a chance that in Melbourne, third round, you could play Rafa Nadal.  Thoughts about that?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, at the moment I'm still in Sydney, still in this tournament.  This tournament hasn't finished for me.   
Look, in a lot of tournaments you can look ahead and eventually you'll play one of the big guys.  But a lot has to go your way for you to get to there.   
So at the moment, I'm in Sydney.  I've got my semifinals.  After that, we'll see what happens.  But it's still ages away for me to even think about it.   
 Q.  At the start of that match it looked like you were really cruising, but Thompson really rallied.  What went wrong there and how did you turn it around?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: I feel like I had a little bit of a lapse in concentration.  I deviated a bit of my game plan, and I think energy-wise I had a little drop.  I wasn't as energetic as I had been the whole set.   
That's something that I've got to look back on and improve.  That's one of the things that can't happen.  Next time I'll make sure to keep my level throughout the whole match.   
It's still one of the things I'm working on improving, and, you know, I just had that little lapse, but apart from that, I'm very happy with my efforts.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT