SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 9, 2019
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. DE MINAUR/R. Opelka   
6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You always speak of learning experiences.  Can you take something out of playing one of the tallest players on tour?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, of course.  You know, I have had a couple of matches against very high opponents with a big serve, and it's just very tough mentally, because you've got to focus on your end of the court, got to focus on your serve and try to keep holding that and take advantage of the opportunities you have, which are not going to be a lot, but you've got to take advantage of.   
I thought I came out last night lights out.  I played an unbelievable return game and was held to a hold-off.  In the second set I felt like I had my chances.  For the most part, he played really well and just served aces and felt like I had one rally there where, you know, I missed sort of a backhand pass and was a little bit frustrated about it, but I had to regroup and focus on my side of the court, and I'm happy I was able to turn that tiebreak around.   
 Q.  Are you physically and mentally up for potentially three more matches to win the title and then go to Melbourne?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, always.  I mean, that's what I put in the hard work for.  Throughout the whole preseason I feel like I'm in great shape both mentally and physically.  I'm loving being out there on court, and can't wait for my next round.   
 Q.  Did you have to change much preparation-wise from yesterday?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: No, not much.  I mean, it's pretty much the same thing.  I had to start like it was just another match.  The good thing is that I was up a break, and I thought the first game was really important for me to get off to a good start and take care of my service games.   
It was just the same preparation, just very different conditions going from nighttime to a hot, sunny day.   
 Q.  You're facing another Aussie tomorrow.  How do you feel about that?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, I mean, Jordan's playing some great tennis.  We're both Sydney boys.  It should be lots of fun.  I mean, there's nothing better than us both going out there and competing and leaving it all out there and see what happens.  I'm really looking forward to it, and it should be fun.   
 Q.  Lleyton is out there now fist-pumping after winning break and serve with Jordan.  Where do you expect him to be sitting tomorrow?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Completely neutral.  That's what's happened every match that I have played an Aussie.  You know, it's going to be interesting.  I played Thomo last week and I played really well.   
It's going to be a very tough match.  He's going to make me a lot of balls and he's going to fight for every point.  It's going to be a very tough match, and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Talking about both being Australian, do you have much experience together playing each other?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, not exactly playing each other, but growing up, training with each other.  I mean, we both came from here, from Homebush, and he's always been like an older brother to me.  We have a great relationship, so it's going to be fun to go out there and play against him.   
 Q.  Straight sets in Brisbane.  Do you take anything out of that game that you think you can focus on?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, well, obviously I'll look back to that match and see what I did well and what I could do better.   
But tennis is a funny game.  Anything can happen on any given day, so you just gotta prepare the best way you can and focus on your game plan and try to execute.   
Come tomorrow, well, we'll see what happens.  I'll try to execute my game plan to the best of my abilities and he'll try to do the same.  It will be a grind, so we'll see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT