NEXT GEN ATP FINALS
November 10, 2018
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. TSITSIPAS/A. De Minaur   
2-4, 4-1, 4-3, 4-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tsitsipas too strong or do you have any regrets overall in the tie-breaks?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: No, not really.  No regrets.  I mean, that's the thing about this format.  You often are going to play a lot of tie-breaks, and he played well when he needed to.   
In the big points, he used his serve well.  And I probably just missed a couple forehands here and there and that was the difference.   
But overall, very happy with my performance.  I mean, all credit to Stefanos.  He was a better player today.   
And it's pretty much a game of inches this sport.  A couple balls here and there make the difference.   
 Q.  If you can reflect a little bit on the season.  This has been just a dream; right?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Definitely.  And I'm very happy it's over.  It's been a long season, a season I'll never forget.  I've played some incredible tennis throughout the whole year.  And both mentally and physically, I feel like it's time to take a break.   
But really proud with myself, and I really owe it all to the team of people I've put around me.   
 Q.  What makes Stefanos' game so difficult?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, obviously he's very aggressive, especially when it comes to the important points.  And he's a tad bit taller than me, and can really use his serve to his advantage and get a couple free points here and there, where I probably have to work a little bit harder for my points when I need them.   
And I think that was the difference.  You know, in big points, he managed to play his brand of tennis, and today he was too good.   
 Q.  Did you expect this level on this tournament?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: My level?   
 Q.  Your level and the other guys.  
ALEX DE MINAUR: I knew coming in it was going to be a really tough tournament.  I mean, all these guys out here, they deserve to be here and it's no mistake that they're here.  They've played incredible tennis throughout the year and they've qualified.   
And I'm just really proud with the level I've shown each day, even today.  Things didn't go my way, but I kept to my game style and tried to play aggressive and the way I needed to play to really try to hurt Stefanos.   
But a couple of shots here and there made a difference.  And so the beauty about this sport, sometimes they go your way, sometimes they don't.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT