AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2018
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Have you come down off the high of last night?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, we got in late last night here.  Was able to have a pretty good sleep-in, then just came here and just got a massage, having the day off.  I'll start hitting tomorrow.  Looking forward to what's to come.
Q. Is it odd seeing your name on the back page, hearing your name on the radio, on TV, one of the big names of Australian tennis now?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, it's strange.  I guess when you're a little kid, that's something you aspire to get to.  It's crazy that it's happening now.
But, you know, it's the same old me.  Nothing's going to change.  I'm still going to get out there on court and leave it all out there, give it my best.
Q. Is there something extra clicking on the court?
ALEX DE MINAUR: A little bit of confidence, you know, self-belief.  I'm really happy with where my level's at at the moment.  I'm just trying to continue to ride this wave.
Q. The fact that you are still very young in the scheme of things, is that a benefit that everything that happens at the moment is still a learning experience for you?  You come against Tomas Berdych, there's no real expectation at the moment.
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, look, every single time I step on court, I'm learning something new.  I'm trying to soak it all up.  I'm using it to deal with different types of situations.
Against Tomas, it's going to be a very tough match.  Then again, I can't wait to get out there.  It's going to be fun.  Hopefully it's a real good battle.
Q. I would imagine, given that your Davis Cup captain, someone who has been with you, Lleyton Hewitt, has been through a similar journey to what you're going through now, that would be a help.  What kind of conversations do you have ahead of this tournament to help you through?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, he's been a help for a long time.  Just gives me advice on how to deal with different types of situations, expectations, pressures, you know, because he's actually been through every single type of scenario you can think of on a court.
So I just listen to what he has to say, you know, try to do it on court.
Q. How special was it for you to get to your first ATP final in your hometown?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, it was crazy.  All the support I got that week was just unbelievable.  Growing up and hitting on those courts, actually watching that tournament as a spectator, to actually play in the final there, was an incredible experience, a week I'll never forget.
Q. You have family in Uruguay.  How close do you feel to that country?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, look, my dad's obviously from there.  I've got family over there.  I've been there a couple times.  It's good to keep track with those roots.
Q. Are you a friend of Pablo Cuevas maybe?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, I talk to him a lot on tour.  He's a great guy.
Q. With all the success you've had recently, do you feel expectations are getting higher?
ALEX DE MINAUR: I don't really know.  I just go out there on court.  It's just another tennis match.  It's another day, another opportunity to get better.  I'm just going day by day.
Q. You're probably going to be on one of the main show courts.  Do you like the Australian fans to be noisy or do you like them to be more reserved?
ALEX DE MINAUR: I think I soak up all the energy from the crowd.  It's great to have such an unbelievable crowd behind you.  I really cherish the moment and am thankful for all the supporters that come out there.  It's just unbelievable to play in front of such an amazing crowd.
Q. What are your expectations for this tournament?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, I just want to have a good match against Berdych.  I want to leave it all out there, compete every point, give myself the best opportunity I can to play well.  I think that's the only thing I can ask from myself.
It's just going to be another match.  It's going to be fun.  I can't wait.
Q. How high are your expectations this year for Davis Cup?  You have a very good team.
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, Australian tennis is in a great spot at the moment.  You know, that's the ultimate goal:  to one day be able to represent the green and gold.  I don't think there's a greater honor than that.  That's what I'm aspiring to get to one day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT