THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 7, 2018
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. NADAL/A. De Minaur   
6-1, 6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you enjoy this experience?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: It was definitely something special, being able to play on Centre Court against Rafa, that's something that I will remember forever.  I think it's all about just learning each day.  So that's a new experience for me, and, you know, I can't wait for what's next.  You know, that's where I want to be, playing on big courts against big players.   
You know, I've got to work harder, get better, and hopefully next time I get the same opportunity I can push him harder.   
 Q.  What were the nerves like and what did it feel like when you actually stepped onto the court?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, obviously, you know, you've got so many people out there.  We went from, you know, being silent to just so many people clapping.  The atmosphere was incredible.   
You know, while you're doing the coin toss and everything, you try to soak it all up, while you're in the warmup, and then it's go time.  You've got to try and focus and try to take it as any other match.   
Obviously it was my first time doing that on such a big court.  But, you know, I'm probably going to do it better next time and the time after that will be even better.   
It's just about learning.   
 Q.  What did Rafa's level tell you about where you are right now?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, you know, it's just incredible his physicality.  That's probably what shocked me the most, you know.  First time I have been on a court with him and just his presence, as well.  Obviously you watch him on TV, and you can't really appreciate how hard he hits every single ball and how much intensity and just brute force goes into every one of his ground strokes.   
That's something that, you know, I took it all in today.  It was just something new, and it took me a while to sort of really feel sort of try to work my way in there.  But at the end I felt like, you know, it was just a couple games, my service games, you know, long games where I wasn't able to quite finish it off.  And then he was able to get that break and then start playing more freely.   
But, you know, I enjoyed it today.   
 Q.  That 1-2 game in the first set was quite a long one.  After you lost that, what were you thinking about, the whole match?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: You know, obviously it was a long game and I had plenty of game points.  It didn't go my way.   
But, yeah, in the moment you're not really thinking about too much.  You know, you just want to get back out there to the next game and, you know, try to get that break back.  But I felt like he was able to just, you know, loosen up and start playing more freely, and he started, you know, dictating way more.   
It was an uphill battle from there.   
 Q.  Going forward, what do you take from this week here at Wimbledon?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Oh, it's a great week for me.  I played some great tennis.  You know, I have had my best result at a slam, as well.   
You know, you just gotta take it in.  Next tournament is a completely new week.  You've got to go back out there and, you know, just compete and try to get better.   
I think that's what I'm trying to focus on every day, just trying to get that little bit better and hopefully my ranking will improve with that, as well.   
 Q.  Did Lleyton pass on any advice about the occasion of walking out on Centre Court?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, well, he's done that walk a couple times himself.  But I think him saying you can get told a lot of things before the match about how you're supposed to embrace the moment and the occasion, then once you walk out there, it's, you know, completely different.   
I think that's something that you actually have to do for yourself and try to take it all in, and obviously the next time it will be different.  It won't be new, you'll be used to it and it will probably be different.   
 Q.  The chip-charge point, the very first one of the match, was that premeditated or just happened?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: I just tried to do something different.  Go out there first point, second serve, just tried to dictate and come in.  I didn't think it was a bad play.  He hit a pretty good lob over me.  But, you know, I just wanted to make him think about my game style.  But, you know, it didn't work out too well after that (smiling).   
 Q.  You were just talking about soaking it all in and what it was like out there.  Did you notice much from the Royal Box and who was watching?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: I got a couple of glimpses, saw a couple people there.  It is special to play on that court in front of, you know, people like Rod.  You know, I saw him there.  It's just special, you know, where we are, we're in Wimbledon on Centre Court playing against the No. 1 in the world.  So it's something very special about that.   
You know, obviously it didn't go the way I wanted it to go, but it's a learning experience and on to the next.   
 Q.  Midway through your first full season at the top level, how are you feeling and how are you, in terms of being able to handle some of the challenges and the fatigue that goes with it?  You said after your second-round match that you had bouts where you felt tired but you were able to keep going.  Do you feel like you're managing that better and better?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: For sure.  I think every time I step out on court, you know, you just learn.  You take it all in, and after the match you reflect and you talk to your team about what you did good, what you didn't do so well.  Try to improve for the next day.   
Obviously playing Grand Slams and five sets, that's completely different to the rest of the season.  So it's way more physical.  Of course you can always get better.  That's something I'm going to work on, try to get as fit as I can be and as strong as I can get, as well.   
You know, I can hopefully one day have the same presence that Rafa does when he's out there.   
 Q.  You have won your first challenger title in grass here in Nottingham and you went from there to playing thousands of people in Centre Court chanting your name.  Is that surreal at all or is it a mark of your success, where you want to go from there?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: For me it's been an incredible month.  I think I started the month maybe 110.  You know, finishing the grass court season top 70.  So it's incredible for me.   
It's the season that I always enjoy.  I love every second of it.  You know, I was able to play some great tennis, which makes it even better.   
It's just been a great month for me.   
 Q.  The three sets, 1, 2, 4 across the three sets, is that a reflection of how relaxed you were getting through the match?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, you can say that.  Obviously I started serving better as the match went on.  I think that helped me stay in the match.  I was able to get a couple of looks.  It sort of happens.  Once you start the match, you've got obviously those nerves, and slowly you get rid of them, start pumping yourself up, getting fired up.   
I think by the end, you know, it was pretty close.  So it could have gone either way, and that's something I'm going to take back and, you know, that's how I need to play from now on.   
 Q.  You were saying about the ranking inside the top 70 now.  What are you setting now as goals and targets as far as that is concerned and how far down?  
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, my goal for the year was, at the start of the year, was to finish the year top 100.  You know, I'm inside of that right now, but I don't really like to look at the numbers too much.   
So it's just about if I can get better both on court and off court as a person, as well, that will definitely help me in the rankings, as well.  It's just going to take it day by day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT