SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 12, 2018
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. DE MINAUR/B. Paire
4-6, 6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Congratulations.  That was yet another huge win but maybe a little tough tonight with a three-setter and kind of the big occasion of the semifinal, playing for your first final.  How did it compare to some of the other big wins you have had this week?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Today was a very tough match.  Probably tougher than my other matches just because of the occasion.  You know, big opportunity for me against a tough opponent, very tricky opponent, you know, with lots of weapons.
So, you know, as soon as I went down that first set, you know, I just tried to weather the storm, tried to stay tough, because I knew I was going to get my opportunities.
But I just had to, you know, stay tough, not make too many errors, try to find that forehand, and, you know, I was able to turn that match around, so I was very pleased with that.
Q. I think you said on court that you were kind of feeling a little bit like lacking in the belief after the first set, which is I suppose unusual for you because you are riding this wave of confidence.  How were you able to turn that match around the way you did?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, you know, I always had that belief, you know, but just situations in the match, you know, I played a very bad game at 4-All to lose my service game, and I just, you know, started again, pressed the reset button and focused on the second set, what I had to do there, take care of my serve, and, you know, try to break him.
As soon as I got that first break, I started finding my game again and I was able to ride that momentum.
Q. And what are your emotions on making your first ATP final, a big achievement this young?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, it's crazy.  I didn't expect it at all.  But I have just been riding this wave.  I have been doing all the right things.  So I'm very pleased how I'm able to accomplish these things.  You know, it's something you look forward to when you're a little kid, and I'm glad I'm in this position right now.
Q. What do you know about Medvedev?
ALEX DE MINAUR: He's a young guy, as well.  He played the NextGen in Milan.  Very dangerous player, very big game.  It's going to be another battle.  It's going to be fun.  I'm sure we are both going to come out swinging, so it should be a fun match.
Q. He said earlier in here after his win he doesn't know that much about you, but he remembers a Technifibre camp and that you beat him when you were 14 or 15 in a tiebreak or a practice match or something.  Do you have any recollection of that?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, I do (smiling).  I remember that camp.  I was able to get to hit with a lot of these guys and, you know, I cherish the moment and the chance of training against these bigger guys.
You know, I'm definitely going to take that into account and, you know, I'm sure tomorrow we will talk about a game plan and I'll just try to come out there and execute it like it's just another match.
Q. You have beaten some pretty big players now and you seem calm, like you can play freely.  You're not daunted by any big names.  Is that something you have had to work on or does it come naturally?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, it's just tennis at the end of the day.  You know, you each are trying to hit a yellow ball over the net.  That's what I try to look at it.  You get out there on court, and you leave it all out there.  Then whatever happens happens.  But, you know, it's just another match.  If you give it your all, then there's nothing to worry about.
Q. Benoit was pretty respectful of you.  He kind of applauded you as he was leaving the court and seemed to say something nice to you at net.  What did he say?
ALEX DE MINAUR: He just congratulated me for, you know, my results in the Australian summer and good luck in the final.
He's a great guy, and I appreciate what he did.
Q. How do you feel with all these matches under your belt and this wave of confidence?  Are you confident physically, going down to Melbourne, a five-set format and a big name to start with?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, first of all, you know, I've got my first final.  I look forward to that.  And then, you know, the Australian Open is just another tournament.
I'm feeling good.  I'm just, you know, with a lot of self-belief.  I'm looking forward to whatever is to come.
Q. What kind of guidance have you been getting from Lleyton?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Just pretty much to stay tough, to not give anything away, to show players in the locker room that this is my brand of tennis, you know, what I come up with every time I step out on court.  It's about showing that presence, and that's what I'm trying to pride myself on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT