BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 6, 2018
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. HARRISON/A. De Minaur
4-6, 7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you assess that match?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Look, I played a great match.  I had my opportunities.  Was very close.  You know, it was a couple points away, but it's tennis.
You know, you have some of your biggest highs, and then you've got some matches where you finish and you're a little bit heartbroken.  But this is what I love about this sport.  You know, the highs and lows.  But this is just going to make me work harder tomorrow, get ready for my next one.
You know, it's an incredible high for me this whole week.  And I'm just using it as a learning curve to bigger and better things.  So I'm really looking forward to what's to come.
Q. Was it a bit of a letdown at 5-3 you served a double fault?  Did you sort of have a letdown after that for the next few games?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah.  Well, I served that double fault at 5-All.
And, look, it's, you know, a lot of emotions through your head, pressure situation.  But it happens.  You know, it's tennis.
Obviously I didn't get to the best start in the third set.  I still found a way to, you know, push it and dig deep and try to, you know, make it competitive.  But, look, he was too good.
Q. What is your overriding emotion right now?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Look, probably straight after the match I was, you know, a little bit, you know, heartbroken, but now I'm fine.  I'm looking at the bigger picture.
You know, I've had a great week, and this is just going to help me for the next upcoming weeks and the Australian Open as well.  So, look, I'm looking forward to it.
Q. How much does this make you reassess what you can do at the Australian Open?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, it helps a lot for my self-belief.  I feel like I'm playing at a great level, and this is the level I want to be playing.
So I just want to keep it going, you know, keep having the same level, keep competing every point and leaving it all out there.  That's the only thing I can ask of myself.  So I'm just going to bring that every day.
Q. Is there one thing that you might take out of this week?  You have never been this deep in a tournament before.  Is there a lesson that you're going to take away when you find yourself in similar situations?
ALEX DE MINAUR: There's lots of stages in a tennis match.  You've got to be able to deal with different types of stages.
And you never know.  Because probably if I didn't get broken that early that third set, who knows what could have happened.
So it's more about just playing every point.  You know, I've experienced so many different experiences on the court this week that I had ever experienced before.  So it's great to be able to put that behind me and learn from it.  So I'm looking forward to what's to come.
Q. How much does it mean to have Lleyton Hewitt courtside cheering you on?
ALEX DE MINAUR: It's been a great influence and a great help.  And I'm so appreciated to him for everything he's done for me.  It's just great to have someone like him on the sidelines cheering you on and just helping you out.
And, look, it's just I'm really proud of the team I've got behind me.  And they've got my back 100%, and that's the only thing I can ask for.
Q. What is the plan now?
ALEX DE MINAUR: I'm going to Sydney now.  I play Fernando Verdasco first off over there.  So I'll probably head there tomorrow, you know, and try to get ready for the conditions.
And it's another tournament.  You know, got to keep doing the same things and hope I can play some great tennis there as well.
Q. You're based in Spain.  Will you remain in Spain or are you going to be based in Australia soon?
ALEX DE MINAUR: So I live, you know, in both places.  I spend the Australian summer -- I come here around start of November and I spend the whole Australian summer here till almost, like, March.  And then the rest of the season, which there's a lot more tournaments in Europe, I sort of base myself in Spain.
But, at the end of the day, I probably spend way more time in Australia than I do back home, because it's just so much traveling.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT