BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 5, 2018
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. DE MINAUR/M. Mmoh
6-4, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Did you expect it to be that straightforward today?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Not at all.  It was a very nervous match.  You know, lots of different thoughts and emotions going through before that match.  You know, that was probably a match where I went ahead and, you know, thinking that there's a good opportunity for me.
So it was a very sort of nervy first set, and then I felt like I let go a bit, got a little bit looser, and played some of my best tennis.
Q. Are you starting to really believe in your success now?  You mentioned after the last couple of matches, you know, you just can't believe it, but are you believing it's happening?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, I reckon the best way to describe this is at the moment, I'm in this really good dream and I really don't want to wake up.
Q. And how do you prepare now for semifinal?  I mean, it must have surpassed all your expectations going into this tournament.
ALEX DE MINAUR: It's just another match.  Got to keep going.  Got to keep doing the same things I've been doing to prepare and recover.
And tomorrow is just going to be another match.  I'm going to get out there, compete, and give it my all like any other match.
Q. You don't know your opponent yet, but what are your early thoughts on Istomin and Harrison?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, they're both great players.  You know, they've both got big games.  It's going to be a really fun match.
And honestly, I can't wait to get back out there on court again.  The crowd today was unbelievable and, you know, I really owe it all to them.  You know, it's just great.
Q. It's going to be another big opportunity for you.  Do you think you will carry those similar nerves into that match or, having got this one out of the way, do you think you'll be a bit more relaxed?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Look, you never know until you walk on court.  A lot of different emotions can come by, but I'm going to try and keep as calm and relaxed as I can and just try to take it in like it would be any other match.
Q. You spend a lot of time overseas obviously, but what's made you stay so connected to Australia?  What is it that you like about representing Australia and being Australian?
ALEX DE MINAUR: What is there not to like, you know.  I love Australia.  I love coming here.  I love playing here.  And I love the support.
It's just, you know, my passion, you know, to hopefully one day be able to represent the green and gold.  That would be the ultimate goal.
Q. Is that why you wear the green and gold outfits or is that coincidence?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, it does help.  That's why I'm wearing the cap as well.
But, look, it's just something I would love to do one day and, you know, what I aspire to get to.
Q. What have your folks said to you about your performances so far?
ALEX DE MINAUR: I haven't really been able to talk to them.  You know, had a brief moment after the match where I hugged them on the sidelines.
But it was pretty special to have, you know, the family fly out from, you know, Sydney this morning to come watch me play.
And again, a lot of different emotions there and can't wait to relax, sit down and have lunch with them, and spend probably the rest of the afternoon with them.  It will be great, and I can't wait.
Q. You've created a lot of buzz with your tennis.  How are things changing off court for you even at this early stage.  Is it much to manage there?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, look, there's obviously been a lot more attention on me, but it's not going to change what I do or who I am.
You know, it's the same old me, playing the same old sport.  Just got to keep it casual and, you know, that's what I plan to do.
Q. You talked the other night about the Origin team and their cry.  Have you always been a Rugby League fan?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Look, it's a sport that I really got into it.  And sort of Jordan Thompson and Matt Reid really got me into it and to the Blue Wall.
And, look, I enjoy it.  I enjoy every second of it.  You know, it's something to be proud of.  I'm a proud New South Welshman.
Q. Jordan is a West Tigers fan.  Has he converted you or do you have a team?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Look, I'm just going to stick to the State of Origin team.
Q. Have you got any rituals before you play?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Where do I start?  Look, we tend to have the same dinner at the same place.  And then, the morning of, we go to South Bank to Kiss The Berry, have an acai bowl there, the whole team, and that's probably where it all starts.  Then we just go about our day like it would be any other day.
But that's probably the two things that I do try to keep the same.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT