BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
December 31, 2017
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. DE MINAUR/S. Johnson
7-6, 6-4
Q. Thoughts after today's match?
ALEX DE MINAUR: It was the best way to finish off the year.  I couldn't ask for more.  I beat a high quality opponent and I'm stoked.
Q. You said when you got the wildcard you were looking forward to improving yourself.  So pretty happy you've done that, then.
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, I think I showed how I can play today and it's all about maintaining that level.  So next up I've got a very quality opponent, so I'm going to look forward to battling with him and see what I can do there.
Q. (Question inaudible.)
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, it's a player that you watch on TV all the time, so it's going to be lots of fun to actually get on court and play with him.  I'm going to give it my all and we'll see what happens.
Q. (Question inaudible.)
A. Yeah.  It's a real boost of confidence and, you know, self-belief as well.  It allows me to play my game and feel comfortable with where my game is at at the moment.  And I did a very tough preseason to get the fitness ready for the Australian summer.
Q. You obviously wore him down tonight.  You must have been happy to see that happening as the game progressed.
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah.  Look, I did a lot of work with Daniel Buberis on the backhand in Melbourne for the preseason.  It was very tough conditioning sessions, but I'm glad it's working out now.
Q. How was the atmosphere out there?
ALEX DE MINAUR: It was great.  You know, it's great to have your home support and, you know, everyone's backing you after every single point.  You know, I really appreciated it.  I can't wait for more.
Q. Is that a feature of your game up to this point?  That ability to grind opponents down?
ALEX DE MINAUR: I think that's one of the things that I can do.  It's about being versatile nowadays.  So you've got to have that variety.  And I think that's one of the things that I had to do today, and I did quite well.  So I'm pleased.
Q. With Lleyton watching on, were you proud of that sort of effort?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah.  I've got to go to talk to him now.  So, look, it's going to be great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT