AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2017
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. QUERREY/A. De Minaur
7-6, 6-0, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did that feel?  How did you feel after the first set?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, look, I'm a little bit disappointed because I really felt like I was in the first set.  Actually had a set point there.  I just missed a sort of cheap second-serve return.
But, you know, a lot of positive to take out from that match, this week, and how I've been playing tennis lately.
I'm disappointed now, but I'm happy with the Australian summer I've had lately.
Q. Disappointment of the first-set loss set you back over the next couple sets?  Did you struggle to overcome that?
ALEX DE MINAUR: No, I didn't think about that too much.  In fact, in the next game, the first game of the second set, I had a couple breakpoints on his serve.  From then on, he sort of loosened up a bit and started playing some really good tennis.
Q. What was going through your mind at the end of the second set?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, I just really, really wanted to compete and have a good score in the last set.  I just really wanted to put in a good effort.
I gave it 100%, but he just came out too big at times.
Q. When you look back on this, that first set, were you pleasantly surprised with how well you were matching him, especially from the back of the court?  Will you take positives out of that?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, a lot of positives to take there.  I think my level's there.  Just got to improve a couple things.  One of the main things is probably my physicality.  Got to get a little bit bigger and a little bit stronger.
But I think those things will come with time and some hard work.
Q. How was the body after Monday, yesterday and this morning?
ALEX DE MINAUR: It was a little bit sore, but I felt pretty good during the match, yeah.
Q. What did Lleyton say to you beforehand?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Pretty much the same thing he's been telling me:  to believe I'm good enough to play against these guys and even beat these guys.  I took that on the chest.  Really came out firing.  I had that really tough first set with a lot of chances, then he just played too good.
Q. What's next?  How are you going to back up from the Australian summer?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, tomorrow I'll have doubles, and then I think my next tournament will be a challenger in Launceston.
Q. Can't wait to get back to a main draw at some stage?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, that's obviously the plan, being able to play this high-quality tennis often.  I think being around these guys and playing against these guys, my level will just rise up to the occasion.
Q. How much do you feel like you have to bulk up?  Will you have to wait till the end of the year to get into a set exercise program to target that kind of thing?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, I think just with a couple training blocks throughout the year, I'll be able to, you know, gain some strength, gain some muscle, some weight, then that will really help me out with my tennis.
Q. How much has your life changed over the last three days?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Not much.  I mean, with all the media and everything, that's been pretty crazy.  That's something I sort of haven't experienced before.  But I'm still the same guy I was three days ago.
I've just been enjoying this journey.  This Australian summer has just been incredible.  I just really want to keep it going.
Q. What did your parents say?  Did you speak to them yesterday?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah.  They're really proud.  Unbelievable.  They couldn't believe it.  Really happy.  They obviously wish they were here to be able to watch it live.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT