APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 10, 2017
Alex De Minaur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. DE MINAUR/B. Paire
6-3, 3-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Few highs and lows out there.  Then it looked like you got on a roll.  How did you stick tight through that?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, I told to myself that I was going to have some opportunities, you know, in the match.  I thought that I was getting on his serve quite often, and I just thought to myself that one of these games he was going to have a cheap game where he was going to have a couple of loose errors.  I was glad I was able to take that opportunity.
Q. Did you know much about him?  Did you see him play?  Get some video?  How did you prepare?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, well, I watched a couple of his matches on TV.  He's played a lot of great players.
I sort of had an idea of what to expect.  I knew there was going to be ups and downs, but I thought it was going to be very important for me to stick with him through the whole match.
Q. What does it mean to get through?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Oh, it's unbelievable.  It's a great confidence booster.  I'm really looking forward to my next-round match.
Q. You seemed to have made the transition into the professional mix quite easy and quite well.  You had the great result at the challenger last year and seemed to have transitioned really well.  Why do you think that is?
ALEX DE MINAUR: I'm not really sure.  I have been playing great tennis.  I think that's been helping a lot.  I think just playing those challengers and beating those good guys has given me some confidence and, you know, some belief in my game and myself.  I think that's really helped me during the last couple of weeks.
Q. Were you surprised by how quickly your success has come?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah.  Well, I wasn't really going to push myself too hard for results these couple of weeks, but, you know, well, the results I have been getting, you know, I couldn't be any happier.
Q. When you look up and have somebody like Lleyton sitting there, what kind of a boost does that give you?
ALEX DE MINAUR: You know, it helps me relax a bit and just makes sure I focus on the next point and just on that point.
That helps me just play the match point by point and not get too ahead of myself.  It's great to have him out there every match, just supporting me, in my corner.
Q. How tough were the conditions out there?
ALEX DE MINAUR: It was pretty hot, but I don't think -- I didn't feel it too much.  Sort of used to the heat, and I actually love playing in hot conditions.  I think that helped me out today.
Q. (Question about fitness.)
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, I felt pretty good.  I think I had a couple ups and downs where, you know, maybe five, ten minutes my intensity dropped a bit, but apart from that, I'm pretty happy with how my fitness held up.
Q. The tiebreaker with 2-1, 3-1, 4-1, it was getting close.  What kind of emotions go through your head?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, I tried to focus on one point at a time, but in the back of my head was sort of thinking, you know, how I was getting closer and closer.
So I'm happy I was able to close it out with my first match point.  Normally I have been playing a lot of matches and it's been taking me a while to close it out.  That was a good relief to be able to close it out on the first one.
Q. Getting the wildcard for next week, did that sort of give you more confidence coming into this week?  It's kind of a show of faith.
ALEX DE MINAUR: Yeah, I mean, obviously, these last couple of weeks have really helped me with my tennis, you know, a real big confidence boost.  It's just been great getting out on court and just competing against these very high-level players.
Q. Has there been one person, apart from Lleyton, in the last few weeks or a recent period that's really kind of stuck with you?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, he's just pretty much told me to believe and I can beat these guys.  You know, that goes a long way.  It's important to not get out there already beaten on court.  So, you know, it's really been helping out.  I'm very happy for that.
Q. Who is the player you have looked up to the most coming through the ranks?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, a couple of players.  I always admire Roger, just the type of player he is, his game style and everything.
And then, always, the fight and the courage of Lleyton Hewitt.  Those two have always been sort of my idols growing up.
Q. When the draw comes out on Friday, would you rather play someone like Roger or would you rather...
ALEX DE MINAUR: Well, I would like to play, sort of not play Roger first up, you know (smiling).  Maybe second up, because at least I would be able to get through a round.
But either way, whoever I draw, it will be a great experience and I can't wait to get out there.
Q. What are your goals this year?
ALEX DE MINAUR: Not gonna put a number to it.  I'm just enjoying every match I'm playing.  Look, just stay healthy the whole year and we'll see how it goes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT