PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2014
Jamie Broce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Fill us in on the great finish, first of all.   
JAMIE BROCE:   I played pretty good for 16 holes.   I just‑‑ my tee time was at 7:50, and I decided to start playing around 8:20‑ish.   So I started double‑double and was kind of worried about shooting 100 there.   Hit a couple of good shots and happened to make a couple good putts, and the last hole was great to finish in front of everybody.   I hit a nice drive and 6‑iron in there to 18 feet or 20 feet and made one.   So that was awesome.  
   
 Q.   Was the 20‑footer up on the plateau?   
JAMIE BROCE:   It was up on the correct tier, yeah.  
   
 Q.   That gives you a shot at it?  
JAMIE BROCE:   Yeah, it does.   It a left‑to‑righter, maybe broke about eight inches.   Knocked it in.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your first‑time experience.   
JAMIE BROCE:   You can't really describe it.   I was glad to go in the morning, because there weren't as many people out here.   You kind of get yourself centered a little bit, and figure out which way is up.   Hit a good drive right down on 1, right out of the gate, and then had a wedge in the fairway, made 6 on the first hole.   
It's exciting once I started hitting shots and remembering what it felt like to compete a little bit.  
   
 Q.   How were the nerves this morning and how long did it take you to finally just chisel down and play golf?  
JAMIE BROCE:   The nerves were high this morning.   I was hitting it well on the range, which was nice.   For the most part it's still nervey out there.   You are just trying to hit good shots.   You are hitting irons into greens that are a little smaller than I'm used to with clubs that are a little bit longer.   You have got to be precise.   
A couple of times I missed greens and I wasn't able to get them up‑and‑down.   Like some of the PGA guys can just get those balls up‑and‑down a little easier.   I hung in there today, so it was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   What did you think of Valhalla, the way it‑‑ since '11, they have done quite a bit of work here on this golf course.   
JAMIE BROCE:   I didn't know the changes beforehand but right now just an extremely fair golf course.   You are going to find your best tee‑to‑green player having a chance to win at the end of the week.   If you drive it well out here, you have got some short irons in your hand that you can take advantage of.   The greens are receptive and they putt true.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT