MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 4, 2016
Cheng Jin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. It's my pleasure to welcome a young amateur who will be making his first appearance at Augusta National, Cheng Jin. Cheng earned his way into the tournament with his one‑stroke victory in the Asia‑Pacific Amateur Championship. The now 18‑year‑old, just as of a few weeks ago, from China opened with a course record 62. With the final round being cancelled due to a nearby typhoon, his up‑and‑down birdie on No. 18 in the third round was enough to edge the field for the title.  
If I may ask you, what does the opportunity of competing in the Masters Tournament mean to you and what are you looking forward to the most this week?   
CHENG JIN: I think it means a lot to me and my family. It's definitely a great achievement. This is just like a dream that came true. I believe that every golfer, one of their dreams should be playing Augusta, and now I'm going to stand here and play the Masters.  
I'm looking forward to the whole dream being complete.   
THE MODERATOR: How has your preparation been for the tournament? Maybe you can tell us a little bit about it.  
CHENG JIN: It's pretty good. I was here the beginning of March to get used to the surroundings and everything at Augusta. Yeah, I spent some time here already.   
   
 Q. Have you been in touch with Guan Tianlang at all? He played here three years ago and made the cut as a young teenager, as well. Have you spoken to him? And if not, who have you been speaking to?  
CHENG JIN: Not really much. We definitely talked a little bit, but we didn't really stay in touch.   
But, yeah, I'm close friends with him and he's my good friend.   
   
 Q. Would that be something you would aim to achieve, as well, to make the cut?   
CHENG JIN: Guan definitely played great when he was here, making the cut at 14. He's definitely hard to beat. He's like a legend, making the cut at 14. All I want to do this week is play my best and enjoy everything here.   
   
 Q. What's been the most memorable part of the last maybe 48 hours for you with the tournament approaching?   
CHENG JIN: Everything is just unbelievable. But I'm starting to believe in it little by little and trying to get used to everything. I think the crowd is the most exciting part maybe.   
   
 Q. How does it compare to crowds you've seen? You've played European Tour events. How does it compare?   
CHENG JIN: Definitely not as many people as here. I mean, today is Monday. I already see tons of people on every hole on the golf course. It's amazing.   
   
 Q. I was just curious, how many times have you played the golf course in your preparation, both in March and since you've arrived for the tournament?   
CHENG JIN: We're allowed to play five times before the official practice round starts.  
   
 Q. Did you play five times?   
CHENG JIN: Yeah, I did.   
   
 Q. All in March?   
CHENG JIN: Yeah, I got here in March.   
   
 Q. You played with world No. 1 Jason Day yesterday. Can you describe the round? Were there any interactions between you two?   
CHENG JIN: Yeah, we did talk a little bit, and Jason is definitely a great guy. I learned a lot from him. I enjoyed the time, the nine holes I spent with him.   
   
 Q. What did you talk about?   
CHENG JIN: Well, he asked me, like, if I'm going to get nervous or not. I'm like, yeah, for sure. He just helped me to focus more and focus on my game. But he said it's normal and good to get nervous, but when we come to the shot, we've got to get focused.   
   
 Q. How do you feel about the course since you have played so many rounds? Is there any challenge you're afraid of?   
CHENG JIN: Well, it's Augusta National (smiling), obviously an amazing golf course, challenging, beautiful, magnificent, yeah.   
   
 Q. Which hole do you think is the most difficult for you?   
CHENG JIN: Difficult? I think No. 4 is pretty hard for me.   
   
 Q. Why?   
CHENG JIN: Because when the tee box is back, it plays a long way there. We don't have a lot of space to land our golf shot.   
   
 Q. Curious about two things. One, how long are you going to remain an amateur? Are you going to continue to play amateur golf, or are you going to turn professional? And I was curious whether you're in school right now or going to college or where you are academically.   
CHENG JIN: I'm going to Southern Cal in the fall, so I'm not turning pro.   
   
 Q. To play golf there obviously?   
CHENG JIN: Yeah.   
   
 Q. Did you stay in the Crow's Nest at all?  
CHENG JIN: I'm going to be there tonight.  
   
 Q. Excited for that?   
CHENG JIN: Mm‑hmm (smiles).  
   
 Q. Do you have family with you?   
CHENG JIN: They are going to be in town today. They are coming today, my parents and my siblings.  
   
 Q. Just growing up as a young golfer, who are the golfers that you admired the most, that were heros to you?   
CHENG JIN: I have been changing, but I admire a lot of people.  
   
 Q. A name or two?   
CHENG JIN: I admire Jordan right now and Jason. The big three right now, maybe. And the old big three, like Jack, Arnold and Gary, and now it's Jordan, Jason and Rory.   
   
 Q. Who else have you played with in your practice rounds? You talked about playing nine holes with Jason Day yesterday. Is there anybody else you've played with in March or‑‑  
CHENG JIN: I did play a few holes with Troy Merritt. We met, so we just played a few holes together. That was before the actual practice round start.   
   
 Q. And today you played by yourself?   
CHENG JIN: Yes.   
   
 Q. Since you got here, you mentioned your family is going to come in today. How do you feel about Augusta National; did they do anything to help you settle down, or how do you feel about the whole place, the atmosphere?   
CHENG JIN: This week or before?   
   
 Q. This week.   
CHENG JIN: Well, it's just an atmosphere of Masters week, man. They are like, the crowds, the setups, everything, is just amazing.   
   
 Q. Is that what you imagined it would be?   
CHENG JIN: Pretty close.   
   
 Q. So you mentioned your parents are getting here. Who have you been staying with the last month or so? Have they been with you and they just went back home and came back?   
CHENG JIN: My Godmother is here with me.  
   
 Q. Is your coach going to be here at all?   
CHENG JIN: I don't think so.  
   
 Q. How many siblings do you have?   
CHENG JIN: We have a total four of us in our family.   
   
 Q. Do they all play golf?  
CHENG JIN: No.   
   
 Q. And when did you get here, if I may, when did you get here on this trip? When did you arrive to get ready for the Masters?   
CHENG JIN: Beginning of March.   
   
 Q. Have you been here since the beginning of March?  
CHENG JIN: I got in Augusta in March.   
THE MODERATOR: Did you have a special celebration when you were here? Did you have a birthday or anything?   
CHENG JIN: Yeah, I did have my birthday here. That was two days after I got here, I think, or maybe one day.   
   
 Q. What did you do for your birthday?  
CHENG JIN: Met some friends in Augusta and we celebrated together. It's cool.   
   
 Q. What are you doing this summer? Are you going to be playing tournaments and getting ready to go to Southern Cal?   
CHENG JIN: Yeah, definitely getting ready for school. I'm going to play some tournaments, but no fixed schedule yet and not sure.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT