NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SENATORS v DUCKS
June 4, 2007
Mike Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE FISHER:  We just didn't do some of the things I think we're carrying some stuff late in the game - late in the period, sorry.  We couldn't carry it over; sometimes it takes the end of a period.  The other team will take over.  That's hockey and that's what happens.  And they played hard.  They got some good opportunities, some nice individually on some of their guys.  You gotta give them credit, too. 

 Q.  Do you pay any attention to history, what people are going to throw at you the next couple of days you'll hear it endlessly, 42 or something.  You don't remember that, do you?  
 MIKE FISHER:  No, but I mean, we're not going to worry about that.  I think just our focus now is Anaheim and trying to put this behind us, learn from it and some of the things we need to do and some of the things that have worked, and it's going to be tough in Anaheim.  They played well there.  
 We just gotta go in there on a mission and be relentless and give it everything we've got and don't worry about history.  Just worry about winning games. 

 Q.  Do you tune that out?  
 MIKE FISHER:  Yeah, I think so, yeah, for sure. 

 Q.  You're facing elimination for the first time (Indiscernible).  I guess you can't look long-term now like many of your eastern opponents.  
 MIKE FISHER:  No, definitely, a tough loss tonight and disappointing, but we gotta travel tomorrow and just focus in on Wednesday in Anaheim and give it our best effort, everything we've got and just go in there with game plan, be on a mission and not worry about anything else for those games. 

 Q.  First period was so good, seemed to stop suddenly? 
 MIKE FISHER:  Yeah, I thought we had a great period.  Thought we did some great things, feeling good.  Second period, they took over, realized that, and they played well.  Gotta give him credit.  Nice individual plays, guys stepped up, and we just couldn't muster up enough, disappointing at home like that.  That's the side I want to take right now.  


gs, and we had a shitty second period, and they took advantage of their chances. 

 Q.  What happened in that second period?  Just dominated completely to being completely dominated? 
 JASON SPEZZA:  We made some mistakes.  We took the puck over.  They capitalized on their opportunities.  We didn't do a good enough job getting it over on their end. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the opportunities tonight?  They don't have Chris Pronger; the home crowd had a chance to tie it up? 
 JASON SPEZZA:  Obviously, we would be better off 2-2.  And we had a big opportunity tonight to even the series, take momentum, and we didn't do it. 

 Q.  How big a hole is this?  
 JASON SPEZZA:  It's a big hole, but it's not something that's insurmountable.  We just have to worry about chipping away one game at a time.  We can't worry about trying to win the series.  We have to try to worry about winning a game first. 

 Q.  Is this a confidence shaker? 
 JASON SPEZZA:  Confidence shaking, maybe a little bit frustrated; I don't think our confidence is shaken. 

 Q.  Can you explain why you guys haven't been able to generate as much as you have pretty much the whole year offensively? 
 JASON SPEZZA:  They're doing a good job blocking a lot of shots, making it hard for us to get chances.  Not really an explanation. 

 Q.  You got a good start, weren't able to sustain it throughout the course of the game? 
 JASON SPEZZA:  Could have been 2-3-0.  Then we had a shitty second period.  They capitalized on the opportunities every time they seemed to get one. 

 Q.  Dany seemed to get off (indiscernible) have a scoring touch back? 
 JASON SPEZZA:  We weren't too worried about Dany's scoring touch.  Nice to see him score a goal but nice to be scoring in a win. 

 Q.  How do you guys try to lighten the mood and become more positive in this particular - the body language says it? 
 JASON SPEZZA:  We just gotta watch the tapes and try and figure out what we have to do different and do better and just try and win hockey game first. 

 Q.  What's the most frustrating part of their game, what frustrates your team? 
 JASON SPEZZA:  Well, they do a good job of clogging it up.  They have five guys back all the time and they really just wait for turnovers and are pretty good defensively. 

 Q.  What's the mind set now or the mood?  I know it's - 
 JASON SPEZZA:  The game finished five minutes ago.  We're just pissed off that we lost this one.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT