AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS VS YANKEES
October 4, 2019
D.J. Lemahieu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Yankees - 10, Twins - 4
Q. After you dropped that pop-up there, which is obviously uncharacteristic for you, is it going through your mind that you're going to make up for this in some way?
D.J. LEMAHIEU: I don't know. Honestly, it's like my worst nightmare, dropping a pop-up like that. I think in the playoffs, you've just got to kind of turn the page real quick, and the next big play is coming up, and it's going to happen real quick.
It's just one of those things that you just turn the page real quick and get ready for the next opportunity.
Q. The way these teams are constructed, just knowing how the game is going to unfold, do you think a lot of it is just when you get home runs and big hits with runners on base that both teams are going to be getting a lot of offense?
D.J. LEMAHIEU: Yeah, yeah. I thought we did a really good job today of getting on base, whether it's walk or just finding a way to get on base. I just feel like we had more opportunities to score than they did.
Q. As somebody who's a top flight hitter, I wonder what you think of Torres' at-bat in the fifth inning, down 0-2 to a pretty tough right-hander in that situation.
D.J. LEMAHIEU: Yeah, huge swing for us. We were -- I think we were down -- I don't know if that put us ahead or tied us or what, but I know that was a really big opportunity for us, and I feel like, once we got the lead there, I felt pretty comfortable we were going to win. So that was a big swing for us.
Q. Talk about big swings, talk about your two extra base hits, how important they were for you and for the team.
D.J. LEMAHIEU: Yeah, just trying to battle. Put good swings on balls and try to relax and do my job. Yeah, it felt good to come through.
Q. D.J., just talk about your excitement of getting all the RBIs that you got, the moment when you hit that home run, how big your performance was tonight in leading the team to victory. Just talk about your excitement about that and how you feel about that.
D.J. LEMAHIEU: Yeah, I feel like, like I said, we had a lot of opportunities to score with a lot of guys on base. We did a really good job against their pitchers. I feel like we -- every one of their pitchers that came in pretty much had tough innings against us, hard-fought innings. So I guess to come through there in a couple situations felt good.
Q. At the All-Star Game you were saying, having played with him for half a season, it's easy to forget that Gleyber is 22. Having played a full season with him now, do you expect at-bats like that from him in those kinds of situations?
D.J. LEMAHIEU: Yeah, he's been doing that all year. Like I said, he's 22, and no situation is too big for him. He's an impressive player.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT