KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2021
Madelene Sagstrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How was your day?
 MADELENE SAGSTROM:   It was nice.  (Laughter.)
 Q. Nice I think, yeah, 64, 11 birdies.  That's tied for the second most in a round in LPGA history.
 MADELENE SAGSTROM:   Oh, wow.
 Q. And that's all after starting with a double bogey.
 MADELENE SAGSTROM:   Yeah, it was kind of rough start.  Actually happy to find the ball on the 1st hole.  I been playing well.  Like last couple days I been playing well.  The score hasn't really shown.  I've been a little bit in the way of myself, so I just had a quick text back and forth with my coach yesterday and with my caddie, Shane, and just like, okay, how do I get out of my own way.
 So clearly I did that today, so I'm very happy.
 Q. Tell us about the round.  Were they long putts?  Were they makable.  Was it all clicking?
 MADELENE SAGSTROM:   The course was set up quite nicely today.  I could reach two par-4s and I hit really good tee shots on both of those, took advantage of that.
 I just hit some really, really good iron shots that were quite easy, and then I made a few putts.  Nothing like -- no bombs, nothing crazy.  It was really steady play and really good iron play.
 Q. Annie in your group was playing really well as well.  Does that help the dynamic when there is someone else in there, or do you play your own game?
 MADELENE SAGSTROM:   Of course you want to see people making putts, playing well.  I think when a group gets going it's easier to get the momentum.
 But you still -- I focus on my own game, but it's really nice because you stand there and watch somebody else play, so you want to see them making putts because it helps you.
 Q. So what did happen on the 1st hole?
 MADELENE SAGSTROM:   A little bit of a drop kick hook left.  Wasn't really my prettiest of shots, but it was kind of one of those things, okay, that I've had a little bit of a miss off the tee the last couple days.
 So just trying to figure that out and just get the ball in play.  I knew I been hitting my irons well.  Just told myself, Give yourself chances and get the putter hot.  That was the key today.
 Q. At one point you had six birdies in a row.  When did you know the day was really clicking in?
 MADELENE SAGSTROM:   I think I started hitting the ball -- even after just after the 1st hole.  Like I hit a really good shot.  I hit almost dead on 2 and I made a putt on 3.  Kind of momentum started -- I got it back really quickly.
 So I just knew if I keep getting out my own way, get out of my own head, and just give my swing the chance to perform, I'm going to have a good day.
 Q. So how do you hope to take this and put it to tomorrow?
 MADELENE SAGSTROM:   I'm really just going to like build from today.  It was a really big step knowing that when I try too hard it doesn't go very well.  Just going to go out and try to be as free as I can and trust that my game has been good enough and that I have done the practice for it.
 Just go out and hope for some more birdies.
 Q. Real quick before I ask you to do some Swedish, it's been a couple weeks since your DriveOn story.  How has the reception to this been, and especially now as we're celebrating the second year of DriveOn this week?
 MADELENE SAGSTROM:   I'm just so honored of all the support.  It's been overwhelmingly good.  I thought I was going to be overwhelmed by it, but it's been a heartwarming.  It's been so mice to have the support from the tour and the girls out here and just stranger that I've never met and never heard from.
 I'm just happy that we're opening doors, starting conversations about this, and just so happy that the LPGA supporting me and my journey.
 I'm just excited to bring it forward.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT