PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 26, 2019
Madelene Sagstrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just overall how are your feelings coming out of this tournament?  
MADELENE SAGSTROM: I'm just right now just really proud of myself.  I had a game plan coming into this week, and I'm just so happy.  I just followed through with to the entire way.  I'm really proud of myself.   
 Q.  What would you say was your game plan from the start?  
MADELENE SAGSTROM: Steady mindset, steady golf.  Sure more steady in general, because I tend to explore a little bit with emotions.  Just commit to my game plan, and today was all about just seeing the shots and not worry about the misses and just go for it.   
I did that.   
 Q.  When you started today, it's been a crowded leaderboard just all the way through this tournament.  How did you kind of handle that mentally?  
MADELENE SAGSTROM: I mean, I had nothing to lose, right?  I don't think anybody has anything to lose out here.  You know you need a good Sunday.   
The weather is perfect, hot, no wind.  Kind of just went for it and see what happens.   
 Q.  What are you going to take away from this tournament and going into the rest of the coming weeks of the long summer stretch?  
MADELENE SAGSTROM: Just the same mindset.  When I focus on doing one thing at a time it really works out well.  Just going to do that and keep working on my game.  I know a win can be close.   
 Q.  Thoughts when that shot bounced off the flag stick?  
MADELENE SAGSTROM: The thing was I was a little bit -- I knew I had adrenaline coming into it, so I was excited about it because it was a little bit in between distance.  I was going to go for a shorter club and I'm like, I'm not going to go for this pin, but then it drew a little bit.  I was like, Oh, that looks really, really good.   
Then I heard it hit and I was like, Please don't bounce off.  I was like, I mean, I couldn't hit it more perfect.  I was excited about the shot anyway.   
 Q.  And the putt on 17, that missed by what, that much or so?  
MADELENE SAGSTROM: Yeah, gave myself two really good chances with 16, 17, but I hit two perfect putts the perfect speed that I wanted to hit my putts and the two lines that I wanted to; didn't go in it.  If I had the same one again could have gone in the same line.   
It was just that.  Really proud of those putts, too.  I don't blame it on that either.   
 Q.  A nongolf question.  I was looking at something about your Twitter account came up.  You said it was time to detox from Twitter.  
MADELENE SAGSTROM: I haven't been on Instagram and social media in probably month and a half now.  Just kind of needed some time to t just work on myself and not get so influenced by things going on around me.  Be fine with being on my own, not get stuck in the scrolling on Instagram, which I tend to do.   
Twitter I kind of just send stuff through.  So that was kind of the whole point.  I think now I have something to post about, so I'm going to go back on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT