CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2017
Madelene Sagstrom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you kind of just sum up your day for us.
MADELENE SAGSTROM: Yes.  Well, I was putting really well today on the back.  Well, my back nine, which was the front nine.  I don't know how many putts I had; it was not a lot.  I either made birdie or I did an up and down, so that was good.
I putted really well.  I didn't hit the ball too well actually, but I'm going to go on the range and figure it out.  I just love being here.  It's just nice knowing it's the last tournament of the season kind of being home turf.
Course fits my style pretty well, so it's just a lot of the fun to be out here.  My fan club is here, so it's just nice to play for something more than yourself.
Q. You had kind of a crazy stretch on the back nine through seven holes.
MADELENE SAGSTROM: Uh-huh.
Q. Take us through what was going on there.
MADELENE SAGSTROM: Well, I made three really good birdies in a row, then on 4 I went water, tee shot, water second shot, so probably made the best double of my life.  I made up and down for double.  Almost chipped it.  It was like this short.  I was like, Oh, best bogey of my life.
I was like, Okay, I know I'm hitting good shots.  Just happened to have a bad moment.  Birdie again, made another putt, made another putt and I'm like, Oh, what's going on now?
Then I made three, another one.  I was like, Okay, this is interesting.  I guess that double didn't matter too much.  Yeah, it was nice.
Q. How do you stay focused and bounce after something like that to get back on track?
MADELENE SAGSTROM: Well, it was kind of like -- for me this week it's all about leaving here and being happy with myself and the season that I've had.  I'm not going to let -- things happen; it's golf.
I'm not going to let anything like that happen, put me down this week.  I'm just going to stay strong and focus on what I'm doing.  I knew I was hitting decent shots and rolling good putts.
I was like, Well, I've made three birdies in a row; it could happen again.  Then it happened.  So it was kind of like just like, Okay, that was not too good, but...
Get over it.  I can't waste my time on thinking about it.
Q. How do you feel like your season has gone?  Happy with your rookie year?
MADELENE SAGSTROM: I'm starting to realize how good it's actually been.  I keep saying, When you're in it, you're in it.  It's so hard to see everything in perspective.  Now I'm starting to grasp that I've done really cool things I've always dreamed of doing.
I'm playing on the LPGA Tour, which was always a dream.  I'm like, Okay, it's been a really good year.  I'm really happy with everything and how the year has been.
Q. Yeah, it seemed like you kind of hit your stride in the second half of the season.  Do you feel like you got more comfortable?  Was there a turning point?
MADELENE SAGSTROM: I think the biggest turn point was Grand Rapids when I made my first really big check.  I was like, Okay, my card is pretty safe.  Because I had been doing research.  Okay, this is how much the people last year made to keep their card.
I shouldn't focus on that.  I was like, Have I been playing half the year to just keep my card?  I want to be out here to compete and win.  Then I had to switch mindset.  Okay, how do I go from jut focusing on the cut to, Okay, I want to finish top 10.
So it was kind of like changed a little bit there.  Started to get a little bit more aggressive in the mindset.  Just like, Okay, I need to let loose.  I can't play for par here.  These girls are making birdies and I can't play for par.  I need to try to make birdies.
I think there was a turning point of also going to Asia.  You know, there is no cuts at all so you know you can just go for it.
I was like, Okay, this works even better.  This is awesome.
Q. Can you tell us about your fan club and how nice it is to have to them here?
MADELENE SAGSTROM: I told them, I was like, We need to gather them to get a picture afterwards.  My mom is here.  She's going to be here for a few weeks.  Then a lot of them are like my mom and parents' friends growing up.  They are all from my home course.  Josh, mom, and dad here.
Yeah, Josh, mom, and dad.  My really close friend, she lives in Orlando with me.  Most of the people are members of my home course.  It's really cool actually.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT