CURTIS CUP
June 10, 2018
Sophia Schubert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You beat arguably maybe their best player today.  How motivated were you to play someone who had gotten two and a half points?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah, I was so excited to get out here today.  I played okay yesterday and the day before, but I was just ready to come out here and play their best player and just show them what I can do.
Q. Was there a key point in the match?  I know you got up early.  Did that give you a sense of confidence as you progressed in the match today?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: It did, yes, for sure, but I think really when I felt good about it was after No. 11, I was 2-up there, and I just felt like I was on a roll, and that really helped my momentum going forward.
Q. Any big shot out there today that you can recall was a key?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Oh, gosh.  I can't think of anything right now.  I don't know, I think on the hole before this, I hit a pretty close shot, and I felt like I put a lot of pressure on her to hit a really close bunker shot, so that was really good.
Q. Can you put what this week has meant to you in perspective?  Last summer you won the U.S. Women's Amateur, and now you get a chance to be a part of a winning Curtis Cup team?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah, it's just been unreal.  This has been a dream of mine like for a really long time, just to make the Curtis Cup team and to win a major championship, the U.S. Am.  So it's been incredible.  It's definitely been like a whirlwind, and I've just loved every minute of it.
Q. Any particular part of the week that stands out, one moment?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I think the first tee, the first day, out there watching my teammates tee off with everyone out there watching, it was really special.
Q. Knowing that you only needed a point and a half to secure this thing, how excited were you to go off first to be sort of --
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah, I was so excited.  I was nervous but I was super excited.  We as a team talked about, yeah, we only need a point and a half, but we don't want to give them any points really; if we can win it all, we want to.  So just to keep the pedal down and just keep going.
Q. How hard is that when you have such a big lead to keep your mental focus because sometimes when you get a big lead there's always a sense to let up a little bit?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah, I think it's hard.  We knew that the other team was going to play aggressive because they had to, and that's good and bad for them, so we just felt like hitting fairways, hitting greens, making pars would do it for us.
Q. Did you ever imagine coming into this week that you'd be the lead girl on the final day, maybe getting one of those final points?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I didn't.  I didn't know that it was a tradition that they put the U.S. Am champ off first, and I'm glad they didn't tell me that until last night because it was kind of nerve-racking being the first one off, but I wouldn't have had it any other way, honestly.
Q. You drew the GB & I player who has probably played the best all week, too; how did you think going in your game would stack up, and what were you expecting out of here?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah, she's an incredible player.  She's an all-American and I think one of the best on their team.  But I was really excited about it.  I've played in tournaments with her but not with her personally, and so I was just super excited.  I knew that it was going to be a good match-up and that we were going to have to play well.
Q. What kind of celebration is the team going to have tonight?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Oh, gosh.  I don't know if I can tell you.  No, I'm kidding.  It's going to be good, I think.  We're all so close, and we're just excited to just hang out and have fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT