THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2017
Sophia Schubert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, I guess it wasn't too overwhelming your first major round.
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I guess not.
Q. Good playing.  You had an extra night to sleep on it, too.
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah.
Q. What did the first tee feel like?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: It was great.  I was a little nervous, but just having everyone watching, it was a great feeling.
Q. Just talk about the perfect conditions today.
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah.
Q. Just talk about how the course was playing and your game.
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah, I felt it was playing pretty fair today.  I mean, the greens were difficult out here, but I hit fairways, hit greens.  How many greens did I miss, one or two greens total?  The last hole and -- yeah, so I feel like that's what you have to do out here, hit greens, hit fairways, and then just putt.  Greens are pretty difficult, though.
Q. Are you starting to feel mentally like, hey, I belong out here?  Has that entered your mind this week?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: It has, yeah, especially today.  I mean, I knew I could do it, but just proving to myself today that I could, it meant a lot.
Q. Does your goal for -- I know you said yesterday you'd love to make the cut.  It's a little different now that it's changed to a three-day event, but what are you thinking now what you'd like to happen on the weekend?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I mean, I haven't looked at the scores yet, but just keep playing like I'm playing and should have a pretty good finish.
Q. Talk about the experience as a whole of France.  Have you been to this part of the world before?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: No, I haven't.
Q. Have you played in Europe or anything?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: No, I have not.  This is my first time.
Q. What's this been like for you this week?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: It's been amazing.  Just coming here for the first time and seeing everything, it's beautiful here, and the golf is great, the course is in great condition.  Just to see everyone out here and meeting people, it's been a great experience.
Q. Were you in the girls' golf program?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I was when I was little, yeah.
Q. I won't say how did that prepare you for this moment, but just looking back on that experience, too, what's it like to be an ambassador for them?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: That definitely helped grow my love of the game because, you know, girls playing golf when I was little, not many girls did it, and so just having a bunch of different girls to play with and people teaching us was awesome.  I remember we got to go to a couple LPGA events and see these women play, and that definitely inspired me.
Q. Are you playing or seeing anyone that you're like, oh, my gosh, that's so-and-so?  Are you star struck?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah, I mean, Juli Inkster for sure, just knowing her is pretty cool.  But all these girls out here, I've watched them all play over the years, and just to see them and be able to play with them is really cool.
Q. What will you do heading into the next round?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I think I do the same thing I've been doing.  Just prepare, rest for sure because I golf pretty early tomorrow.  Just warming up the same way I've been doing it and keep the same preparation.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT