U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2017
Sophia Schubert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Initial reactions, Women's Amateur champion.
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: It hasn't set in yet.  I've just worked so hard for this, and to finally be able to win something like this, it's incredible.  I don't know when it'll set in, but yeah, it's exciting.
Q. Your match, you're leading the whole time.  What does that do to your confidence?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I think it does a lot for my confidence.  Being ahead is -- I think it's really good, but it can change so quickly, and so I just couldn't get too happy because I knew that Albane is a great player, and it could change so fast.  I mean, I was 4-up after 18, but there were still 18 holes, so I wasn't sure what was going to happen.
Q. Talk about having a two-hour break and a 4-up lead.  How do you mentally keep momentum going and not kind of --
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah, the two-hour break, it was a long break.  But I just tried not to think about it, and then I just started warming up and just acted like it was another 18 holes and came out here, and I tried not to think about that 4-up lead at all.
Q. Did you have lunch (indiscernible)?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I did, yes.
Q. (Indiscernible).
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I tried to.  I didn't want to talk about it at lunch.  I told my mom, let's not talk about golf right now.  So we tried not to.  We just ate lunch and talked about other stuff.
Q. Earlier in the week the speed of the greens were kind of changing (indiscernible)?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I had a four-putt, yes.
Q. Talk about the progression of the week because your speed was beautiful today and how you got used to --
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Thank you.  Yeah, these greens are some of the most difficult greens that I've played on.  The speed, especially downhill, it's incredible.  So the first two days my putting wasn't that great, but just kept doing it, and it progressively got better, and I felt like I know these greens pretty well now.
Q. Could you tell they were rolling faster today?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: You know, I did.  I was out on the practice green, and I looked at my coach, and I said, I think these are a little quicker.  They were.
Q. When did you first decide that you wanted to be a professional golfer?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I think it was a dream.  I think it's always been a dream of mine, but it really set in in high school after I won three state championships and three AJGAs, and I knew that that was something I wanted to do and possibly accomplish one day.
Q. So how does winning this championship sort of maybe reshape what you might do this next year?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: It definitely gives me a lot of confidence.  I've always wanted to go pro, but this really did it for me.  Now I'm going to remain an amateur just to play in these events that I'm exempt in, and I think that'll be an incredible experience for me.
Q. Curtis Cup, is that something that you --
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I would love to play in the Curtis Cup, yes, and I hope this helps.
Q. What was the conversation with your dad?  Did you talk to your dad last night?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I did, yeah.  I talked to my dad a little bit.  He was so excited, but he just said, you know, it's in God's control, and what happens happens, and he said he was proud of me whether I win or whether I come in second.  So that was really great.
Q. Is there any inspiration for (indiscernible)?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: You know, yes, he said he was on his way to go get a plane ticket, and then he said, no, you know what, we don't want to mess up the mojo.  He didn't.  I didn't want to say, no, dad, don't come.  I wanted him to come, of course, but we all kind of agreed that maybe it wasn't a good idea.
Q. Was he the first call?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: For sure.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: He tries not to cry in front of me, but I know he's crying right now.
Q. There were a few tears (indiscernible).
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: You know, yeah, I was thinking about it.  I was like, oh, my gosh, am I going to cry, and I'm so excited, but I just couldn't cry.  I'll probably cry later.  I see my mom crying, and I'm like, that's enough.  I'll let her cry for both of us.
Q. (Indiscernible).
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah, me and my coach, we kind of disagreed a little bit.  I thought I should chip it and he told me to putt it, just because the grass was kind of thick right there.  But it went through pretty smoothly, and once it made it, I thought, you know (indiscernible).
Q. How long was that?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: It was probably maybe 25 feet.
Q. Did you say, hey, coach (indiscernible)?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yes, I did.  I did.
Q. So even though your mom (indiscernible)?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I know, I know.  She was like, let's take a picture.  Like she was on Facebook and stuff.  I was like, mom, no.  Let's just wait and sit down to finally have it.  It's just incredible.
Q. Where are you going to put it?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I have no clue.
Q. (Indiscernible).
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: No way.  I want to take it everywhere with me, but I know I can't do that.  So who knows.
Q. What's your home club?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: So I don't -- well, I don't really have a home club.  I just have a practice facility.  But I love to play out at Oak Ridge Country Club.  They've been really good to me.  And then in Texas at UTT Golf Club.  I play almost every day when I'm there.
Q. Would you be a pro by the time (indiscernible)?
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I know.  You know, I've got to think about that because to be able to play at home would be really fun, to have everyone come watch me.  We'll see.  I don't know yet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT