U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2017
Sophia Schubert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What were your expectations coming into this week, where your game was?  
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Well, I knew my game was pretty good.  I've been working hard, and it's been in a good place.  I had some expectations.  They were pretty high.   
 Q.  Golf today?  What are your thoughts?  
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah, I thought both rounds -- well, they were both a little different from yesterday.  I felt like my ball-striking was better yesterday and my putting was better today.  I really got the feel of the greens today, got that narrowed down quick, and I think that's what did it for me.   
 Q.  What was your previous experience in Women's Am?  
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Well, this is my first time playing Women's Am.  I only tried to qualify for it two or three times, so finally did it in my last year, yeah.   
 Q.  How does it feel to go from playing the first time to getting as far as you have?  Was there any nerves at all?  
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: There are nerves for sure.  I mean, I get nervous at every tournament.  But yeah, this is a bigger stage, and I just -- I guess I was more nervous because I wanted to show my game and do as well as I could.   
 Q.  And you feel like you've done that, right?  
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I think so.   
 Q.  What has been your mentality in match play?  
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah, well, I mean, I try not to play it too much differently than stroke play, but on the other hand, you can be a little more aggressive, not as fearful, I guess.  You can go for more things, not be scared you're going to double the hole.  So that's fun.   
 Q.  And you feel like you've done that this week?  
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: I feel like I have for sure, yeah.  I have.   
 Q.  Talk about the approach today?  
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah, you've got to do it from the start, kind of show where your game is and not stop.  I mean, even if you're ahead, if you're down, you kind of have to keep that same focus throughout.  I was ahead all day, but I still had to stay focused because it can change so quickly in match play.   
 Q.  And did you kind of feel like -- at what point in terms of how far you were up did you really feel confident going forward, or maybe you still felt nervous the entire time?  
SOPHIA SCHUBERT: Yeah, I felt confident probably -- I think on about 8 or 9.  I hadn't been ball-striking it that well, and then I just got it, and I knew that I had the match at that point.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT