TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 1, 2012
Seth Doege
Cornelius Douglas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   As you guys got back and began to prepare for this game, what was the mindset of the players as you guys get ready for Oklahoma? 
SETH DOEGE:   Just that this is the next step.   I think we're confident as a football team to play whoever we play.   OU happens to be the next game on the schedule.   So we're excited about it.   I think guys are very confident because we started off with a win, confidence, and then we're ready to prepare for OU.

Q.   Can you talk about you threw that interception and got the touchdown on it.   In past years, well, last year, sometimes that would throw you off.   Can you talk about what you've done to develop that ability to have a short memory? 
SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, it's just telling yourself that everything's going to be fine and that you've prepared well enough that if something alike that happens, you can get right back on track within the next series, and you can play well. 
So it's just a whole mindset thing that I've become stronger in that area.   To where if I do something as throw a pick six, I can bounce back and play well after that and continue to find success.

Q.   How much is having a good defense this year helped that sort of mindset? 
SETH DOEGE:   It definitely helps it a lot, because I know I don't have to press.   I don't have to press.   I don't have to worry if I don't score in the next series, it's all downhill.   You can rely on those guys to make plays for you as they did last Saturday.   They really helped us out.   Did a really good job. 
It's just the fact that we can lean on those guys.   If we're not clicking on all cylinders early in the game, it's not going to be an uphill climb.   We're still in the game.   As soon as we start rolling, we'll take the lead and take the game.   So it helps a lot.

Q.   How good did it feel to get that monkey off your back in the conference when Iowa State who has given you trouble the past couple of years? 
SETH DOEGE:   It felt good.   The entire team was excited about the win.   Very emotional in the locker room after the game.   We went down there and did what we expected.   We expected to win the game.   We prepared really well for it.   We had really good weeks of practices leading up to it.   Went down there, and the defense played a whole lot better than the offense played.   But I think as a team sport, we definitely enjoyed the victory.

Q.   Where do you see the biggest improvement from Kenny Williams this year? 
SETH DOEGE:   I think his confidence and his play.   He's a big‑time player.   So when he believes in himself and he doesn't really question what to do, and just hits the holes and full speed and downhill, he's a really good player.   That's what I've noticed from last year to this year.

Q.   What was Iowa State doing pressure wise that was causing problems for the line and for you? 
SETH DOEGE:   They were just blitzing more than we prepared for.   They're good defense.   They're really good on the front.   So I mean, it was the first challenge for our offensive line, really I thought they handled it pretty well.   They did zero blitz us a little bit, and we were outnumbered.   Sometimes I moved in the pocket when I shouldn't have.   You could, I guess when you watch it on TV or watching the game, you think that the O‑line maybe gave us some pressure when they really didn't.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
SETH DOEGE:   I haven't really sat down and discussed the game plan with Coach Brown yet.   It's still up in the air to me too.

Q.   The schedule with Oklahoma, where is it like knowing that you have to be on your game for certain aspects of the defense? 
SETH DOEGE:   Say what? 

Q.   What do you worry about most about facing their defense this week? 
SETH DOEGE:   I'm not too worried about really anything.   They're always good on defense and always really athletic.   We're athletic too.   I think we're a lot more athletic this year than we were last year at this time.   I think we're running the ball a lot better.   So our job is to prepare well, and then on Saturday, go out there and execute and be the best we are at our job.

Q.   Is it important to get out by a few touchdowns as you did last year? 
SETH DOEGE:   I think that always helps.   But I also think that our defense is playing really well.   We don't want to struggle early.   As an offense, that's not who we are.   We preach all the time of starting early and finishing fast.   But if it takes us a series or two to get started, I think our defense is playing really well.   They can help us out.   But at the same time, it's not something that we want to base on is starting slow.   We want to start fast.

Q.   You used the word confident with the defense.   Would the offensive word be patient because you have that confidence to know that even if you start off slow, you can come around? 
SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, I mean, I think we're a very talented offense.   Eventually we'll get started, and eventually we'll fill up some points.   It's just a matter of going out there and doing it on a consistent basis.   From start to finish, every game, not wait a couple of series or do something stupid like throw a pick six early in the game and get rolling early. 
It helps out the defense when we start fast, because they don't press.   They can go out there and play what they need to do or play how they need to play and not worry about creating turnovers or anything.   They can just go play.   Whatever happens, happens.   But I think patience is a good word, but at the same time, we're more explosive than patient.

Q.   Do you think that Oklahoma will come in and be a little more fired up since you guys went down there last year and played them and K‑State beat them a couple weeks ago?   Do you think you'll really be chomping at the bit? 
SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, I assume they're going to feel the same way we felt going down to Iowa State.   We were excited and pumped up for that game, for the main reasons that they had really taken it to us the last two years.   We wanted to prove and make a statement that we're a better football team.   I feel like that is the same way that OU feels coming into here.   We got after them pretty good last year.   We need to make a statement.   That's part of it.   We're excited too.

Q.   Is it more dangerous when they have that extra motivation? 
SETH DOEGE:   I think in the Big 12 this year you almost have to have the incentive that you want to play at a high level, and you want to take care of whoever you're playing.   So I don't think it's a big deal.   I think we need to be ready for it.   I think they're going to be on a high early in the game.   If we start fast and play really good defense, we can turn that motivation and emotion around and turn it into our favor.

Q.   What makes it so tough for them to come in here and play you? 
SETH DOEGE:   I think it's the atmosphere.   I think our fans do a really good job when OU comes down.   I know I've talked to some Big 12 quarterbacks who said when our place is rolling, it's one of the hardest places to play.   So I think that has something to do with it.   I just think that we play really well at home against OU.   I think that needs to continue.   But I also know they'll be ready to go.

Q.   Who do you consider your number one wide receiver right now? 
SETH DOEGE:   Probably Eric.   Eric Ward.   Eric Ward has made a lot of plays for me, a lot of third down conversions.   And he's done a really good job after the catch as well as yards after the catch.

Q.   Is he playing about the level that he was playing at the end of last year? 
SETH DOEGE:   I think he's gotten better.   You know, I think all the hard work he's put in, I think he's more confident, and his abilities have paid off.   I think it's starting to show.   I don't know what the word I'm looking for, but the big example would be that last touchdown.   We ran the post corner, and he ran a really good route.   The corner was totally turned around.   Those kinds of routes will win you games.   He's the type of guy that wants the ball in his hands.   So him getting more confident is making him a better player.

Q.   These next five opponents are all ranked in the top 20.   What do you feel you'll have to do over the next five weeks to be where you want to be? 
SETH DOEGE:   Just take one game at a time and make sure we grow as a football team each game.   Never take a step back.   We never play to the point where we felt like we took a step back as a team.   That is our biggest goal to take one game at a time. 
We feel like we can win every game, but we don't want to look on into the future.   We feel like if we can focus on one game at a time and make sure that we take that step of getting better, that will help us in the next game, and the game after that.   So that's our main focus.

Q.   You've been around here a long time.   Can you recall any stretch that looks that difficult on paper? 
SETH DOEGE:   Not that I can recall.   There may have been, but I can't remember any of them.

Q.   You guys were able to convert some big third downs the other night.   What was the key to being able to convert those when you really had to? 
SETH DOEGE:   It's just go out there and everybody doing their job offensive line protecting, and the receivers running the correct route, getting the correct depth.   And not getting beat up at the line of scrimmage.   Me having the correct presnap and throwing the correct ball.   I think everybody plays a role in it, and that is a huge thing for us.

Q.   What are you going to do to help the team stay focused for OU? 
SETH DOEGE:   Yeah, we've already talked about it.   We want to have the same excitement and competitiveness during practice that we've had these last two weeks, because we felt like these last two weeks were some of our best weeks of practice.   So we want to continue that, keep the guys excited and understanding that it's a long road:   We always preach one common goal, and that is the Big 12 Championship.   We can't accomplish that if we let one slide and it all starts in practice.

Q.   (Indiscernible) was that your first catch of your career? 
SETH DOEGE:   No, it wasn't my first, but they kind of sniffed it out pretty good.   Made a good play of scrambling around and finding me.   I didn't know the guy was there.   But once I caught it, he was right on me.   I kind of took a hit.   I told Bradley, he left me out to dry.   I owe him one. 
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS

Q.Can you talk about the match up on defense?   Just talk about Coach Kaufman, and you guys working? 
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   Coach Kaufman, man, he's a good coach.   Everybody listens to him.   Every day he preaches to us, just really to run to the ball, be in the play.   You can see on the film every game that we're running to the ball, everybody.   You look on the film and you see all 11 hats right there on the ball.   That's what he's been coaching and preaching.   That's why I went from last to first, so...

Q.   Any extra feelings playing OU? 
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   Not really.   I'm kind of over that.   That was freshman year they didn't recruit me.   It's just a business trip now, I've got to get the W.

Q.   He knows you guys are playing a lot tighter coverage.   Is that something Coach Lovett has instituted that you guys are playing receivers and you guys are playing a lot more tight coverage, bump‑and‑run kind of stuff?   Is that different from last year a little bit? 
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   It is.   We played off more.   Well, I can't say that.   The last three games I played, we weren't playing tight on them.   Every once in a while, but now he's really emphasized us really getting on them, and getting pressure on them.   I mean, that makes it harder for the quarterback.   It's been working, so...

Q.   Are you looking forward to testing sort of that skill and the receiving group that's going to be the best so far? 
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   Yes, we're going to do that against them too.   Nothing's going to change.   I mean, we have a good game plan.   We're going to follow the game plan.   If it's press or playing off on me, I want to do whichever is going to work to win the game.

Q.   How have you been able to transfer from being wide receiver to defensive back so quickly? 
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   When I played all my life playing corner.   I mean, Tech was the first time I played receiver.   So, most of my college recruiting, I was a corner back, but I mean, it's just I would say instinct.   I can't explain it.   Just going out there and playing and trying to do my best.   That's all it is.

Q.   What is the concern to you about Oklahoma's offense? 
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   I mean, there is really no concern.   They're a great team.   We're a good team too.   We're going to practice hard and watch film and really study them.   You know, they say best team wins.

Q.   Can you tell us how you feel about the next five weeks playing teams that are ranked inside the top 20? 
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   It's going to be tough.   But we've got to take it week by week.   We can't look forward to playing Texas or West Virginia or K‑State or whoever the five‑game stretch is.   We have to focus on OU this week, and then after that, focus on the next game and the next game.

Q.   Talk about you on defense (Indiscernible)? 
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   Basically, just go out there each day and just work hard.   I'm not too vocal out there, but I try to show more of my play on the field.   You know, we've got D.J. Johnson.   He's a good leader too, and Kerry Hyder.   But just go out there and work hard every day.   That is basically it.

Q.   Does the defense feel pressure, or do you guys say, okay, now we can start receiving?
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   We just go out there and do our job and worry about the defense.   Offense is going to struggle and defense is going to struggle sometimes.   We have to be there to pick each other up.   That's just part of the game.   I mean, whenever we run on all cylinders, offense and defense going, nobody can stop us. 
But you're going to have struggles sometimes.   But it's just adversity, you have to work past adversity.

Q.   Have you watched film on OU?
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   We'll probably watch film today.

Q.   Can you talk a little bit more about your defense (Indiscernible)?
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   They bring a whole new game plan.   They really coach us.   I mean, we watch film pretty intensively.   It's all details.   I mean, from your feet, to your foot work, to your hand placement.   I mean, you're coached to fine detail, and I think that's really changed this team around.

Q.   How did you feel the week of the Mexico game, sitting out that game?   What did do you to get yourself back ready to go on Saturday? 
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   I really wanted to play, but the best choice was for me to sit out.   I got my mental reps in, watching the practice, watching the game.   I still watch film.   I just wasn't able to go out there and move around physically.   But I got the mental portion in, so that was good for me.

Q.   How did you feel going out there Saturday night? 
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   I felt pretty good.   The first practice I came back, and I was‑ you know‑ but after that I was good.

Q.   The first time you got the ball in your hands, are you determined to get to the end zone?   What were you thinking as you got to the 20‑yard line? 
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   Just score.   I mean, I saw it.   It was right there, but I couldn't get to it.   It was hard.   But it set up for the offense to score though.   That's all that matters though.

Q.   With Landry being more mobile, does that allow guys to do bigger things? 
CORNELIUS DOUGLAS:   I suppose.   I mean, it doesn't matter.   He's got a great arm, so whether he's playing off or on, he's still going to get the ball where he wants to get it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT