FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 29, 1995
Sabine Hack
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Sabine, you never looked comfortable out there.  Was it a mental thing?

SABINE HACK:   A what thing?


Q.  A mental thing with the transition to clay?

SABINE HACK:   Yeah. I think first of all it's the first clay court tournament.  I haven't had so many good tournaments in the last weeks.  I had a couple of first rounds.  I didn't much have so much confidence out there.  I didn't move so well, like, and I didn't play aggressive enough.  I mean, I tried to slow the game down but my balls were short and she attacked really well.  She served good and she took the balls very early and made pressure.  I think she played really well but I never found my game.  I was always too defensive.


Q.  Did you get the feeling though that even though it seemed that everything you tried that was good whether it was a drop volley or mixing the pace up with her, it seemed to be her day, did you ever get the feeling that --

SABINE HACK:   Well, she played really well, she was very motivated.  I think she played the best she could play on clay.  I just thought if I can keep the balls deep, you know, she's not going to have the chance to go for her forehand, but I just couldn't get it deep.  I don't know, somehow it was a little mental, not so confident and if you're not so confident the balls get shorter and it has all to do with that.


Q.  You've had some good tournaments here in the past.  Did you have some expectations coming in even though you'd been struggling a little bit?

SABINE HACK:   Yeah, I thought the clay is my surface for sure and I thought, you know, these tournaments, Hilton Head and Amelia, I'm going to do pretty well.  I had a pretty good draw and I was seeded so I thought I would do pretty good.  But I just have to get through the first round just because I had so many first rounds just now.  I just have to get going, so I hope at Amelia it's going to get better because I'm playing good, I just have to get through that first round.


Q.  You said you would like to have been more aggressive against her.  Was she doing anything to keep you from getting into your offensive game?

SABINE HACK:   I think she played pretty clever.  She played a high ball which made me go back and she took it early and got me under pressure, so she mixed it up pretty good.  She really didn't make that many mistakes. She went for a lot and she made a lot of points, so I think she played a really good game.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT