OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 23, 2013
Braxton Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Braxton, you look like you just took your game to another level with the acrobatics, your somersault in, you land on your head for another.   What got in to you today?
BRAXTON MILLER:   You know, this is going out for the seniors because we do so much throughout practice, we just want to show it on Saturdays.   That's what we do.
And it turned out that way.   And you go out and it was very emotional, just playing the last game with the "O" line, all the seniors I came here with.   It was very emotional, man.

Q.   You threw like 17 times.   Obviously the weather was part of that.   Was that more the weather or was the game plan to kind of stay on the ground?
BRAXTON MILLER:   You know, a little bit of both.   Philly wasn't really healthy for this game.   So he sat out just a little bit.   We were going to keep our defense off the field.   Run it out a bit.   The running game was really good.   Kept pounding it behind the "O" line.   Every throw, actually completed a little bit, but it wasn't the best.   But got the job done.

Q.   You guys broke the school record today.   23 straight wins now for this program.   Clinched a spot in the Big Ten championship game.   It's Michigan week.   Does it feel like this team is in a place where it should be when all those factors are in play as you head into the rivalry week this week?
BRAXTON MILLER:   Playing pretty good right now.   Foot on the pedal.   Playing hard each and every down.   Play team ballgame.   Things turn out like this, come out third quarter and just‑‑ I saw my man KG coming out there for the last time, home game.   That's really what we wanted to do was go out there, score as many points as we could, and I wanted to see my big brother go out there for the last time, see the fans cheer him on.

Q.   Wanted to ask you about the two flips, what made you decide to do it on the first touchdown?
BRAXTON MILLER:   Just having a little bit of fun.   All year, actually with my knee brace and injury going on.   But today, if you notice, I didn't have my knee brace on.   I wanted to have a little bit of fun with it.

Q.   The second one, did you hurt your head at all?
BRAXTON MILLER:   No, I didn't.   Everybody asked me on the sideline when I came off.   But I'm good.   I'm fine.

Q.   On that second one, when did you make up your mind you had to go airborne?
BRAXTON MILLER:   I seen his shoulder, he was looking at my ankle.   I'm sure he's smaller than me, of course, and he ain't going to hit over me.   So I seen him lean a bit, so tried to jump over.

Q.   The other thing, Braxton, seemed like a concerted effort to get Dontre Wilson involved a day early and often.   And how do you see him coming along?   Obviously dropped that one third down pass you'd want back, but took a flip, turned it into a 24‑yard touchdown pass.   Talk about how he came along this week. 
BRAXTON MILLER:   A guy like that, you gotta keep him on the field.   He's young.   He's a freshman.   He's going to make mistakes.   But he does it fast, as you can see.   And a guy like that, you gotta keep on the field and throughout the whole week we try and mix it up just a little bit, design plays for him and it turned out well for him.

Q.   Braxton, I know it's an emotional time seeing some of the seniors leave.   With all the talk behind leaving, is it hard to block that out, or as it pertains to this is this possibly my last game here at the Horseshoe, did you contemplate that throughout this game?
BRAXTON MILLER:   No, not at all.   I just came out there trying to play my game, go with the game plan that was planned and just feed off the seniors.   Wasn't trying to go down, as you can see.   Trying to keep my feet and do what I could do for the seniors to go out there with a good win.

Q.   Was the last time you played in the snow the state championship at St. Ed's and how does that change things for you?
BRAXTON MILLER:   It wasn't as cold when we played at St. Ed's.   Today it was really cold.   One of the coldest games I played in.   What do you mean by change? 

Q.   (Question off microphone)?
BRAXTON MILLER:   The wind, just depends on what the wind is, the passing game, the wind takes the ball.   You don't really want to throw it.   It's all about the passing game in that.

Q.   You guys are in the Big Ten championship game with this win today.   Michigan State's there as well.   Is there a sense of accomplishment or a sense of you guys still have some unfinished business yet?
BRAXTON MILLER:   Just striving for the best.   We ended the season 12‑0 last year.   We weren't able to go to a Bowl game, Big Ten championship.   And that's what we're striving for, accomplish that, and keep going forward, keep winning games, just make Ohio State proud. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT