OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 26, 2013
Braxton Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







<span style="font-weight:normal; "></span>
Q.   Braxton, congratulations.   What kind of statement did this offense make tonight?   63?
BRAXTON MILLER:   You know, all our preparation, it ties into all what we're doing.   That's how it should be.   And guys played hard throughout the whole game and didn't miss a beat when all the second guys came in either.   All preparation.

Q.   What does it say about where you guys are going now?
BRAXTON MILLER:   You know, gotta keep our foot on the pedal.   The team in front of you gotta take one game at a time.   Can't overlook any type of opponent.

Q.   When you say you need to take them one game at a time, do you guys feel‑‑ you talked about the polls, you knew where you stood, that you needed to do something like this to impress people. 
BRAXTON MILLER:   We didn't really talk about it but a little bit just watching it all day, we had all day to watch.   You see it a couple times, and just can't go out there and predict whatever is going to happen.   Just have preparation.   It turned out real well.

Q.   Talk about what's gotten into Carlos Hyde these last three games and again tonight, just talk about what you see from him. 
BRAXTON MILLER:   Leadership from where he grew from last year and that little incident he had, just felt like he's got to prove himself even more.   Things like that happen.

Q.   How comfortable do you feel on the passing game right now?
BRAXTON MILLER:   Very comfortable.   I know what I'm doing and defensive coverage and I know where the guy is going to be, out sometimes, and it's exciting to see a guy with the ball in his hand do something with it.

Q.   Your offensive line, we talked about them last week, the way they moved the line of scrimmage; did they move it more tonight?   Seems like if you wanted to give it to Carlos, he had 10 yards waiting on him.   Were they that dominant?
BRAXTON MILLER:   They're getting aggressive throughout the week of practice, and just doing a little smoke plays on the outside.   Getting guys got the ball on the outside.   Frees up the inside and offensive line did a hell of a job.

Q.   After the way you played in the first half to hit Philly with that touchdown pass to end the first half, how did you feel in that moment putting it all together like that?
BRAXTON MILLER:   We ran it in practice, actually ran a coverage out, that was predicted and still threw it to him and knew he would catch it.

Q.   Was that the most confident, comfortable you felt in your career?
BRAXTON MILLER:   Yes.   Through the year with Coach Meyer and the offense, learning, every game, I just improve myself and show what I got.

Q.   How you doing?
BRAXTON MILLER:   Doing pretty good.

Q.   Feels like, as a former player, you go out there with a chip on your shoulder, have this certain energy.   Seems like you guys kind of had a chip on your shoulder, if you will.   Can you talk a little bit about that?
BRAXTON MILLER:   You know, just coming off the last season, it was a hard‑fought season last year, and just coming in this year, we were going to pull ourselves even more like we can do this again, just keep doing what we're doing, don't change who we are, keep working hard throughout the week and you expect things like this.

Q.   I want to ask about the 39‑yard touchdown run you had to draw, just looks like your guys completely sold out on the blocks even downfield for you to get you in the end zone, want to ask you about that and one other thing, but that touchdown, what you see there, the guys blocking for you?
BRAXTON MILLER:   Coach, he wanted to see me get a rushing touchdown.   All right, coach, we're playing this game.   And I gave it to him and he had that play and started off with.

Q.   Other things, Dontre getting the ball to him in the swing pass and the touchdown in the second half, is that the kind of play they'll give him going making those plays on a regular basis?
BRAXTON MILLER:   A guy, like that, you always give a ball to him on the outside, around the middle, big plays like that, it's always exciting.

Q.   Was this as complete a total team first half that you all had?   What did it feel like to look up there, see that kind of lead against a credible opponent like that? 
BRAXTON MILLER:   Good defense.   Good team.   The first half doing real great.   Fast, fast momentum, getting the ball out.   And the guys get the ball, the offensive line blocking and the game, just the game plan just worked out.   Worked throughout the week, turns out like this. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT