OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 19, 2013
Braxton Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Braxton, you made quite a few moves.   Do you feel 100percent?   You kept a lot of plays alive today. 
BRAXTON MILLER:   I feel pretty good.   I feel the knee brace gave me a little constriction.   Running, strides.   Feels pretty good.

Q.   Braxton, you had a pretty efficient day:   22 of 27 passing.   Ran for more than 100.   Did you feel like you were sort of maybe a little bit more in control than you've been?   Efficiency, that's a pretty high standard, it seemed today?
BRAXTON MILLER:   Right.   I don't feel as well since the first game of the season.   I had a knee injury and set me back a little bit, but felt pretty good out there, good week of preparation.   And the "O" line did a hell of a job and coaching and it showed on the field.

Q.   The defense struggled in the first half.   How much did you guys as an offense feel like you had to score on every possession?   And also could you talk about Carlos's touchdown run?
BRAXTON MILLER:   You know, sometimes it ain't going to go as you want it to go.   So that's why you gotta (indiscernible); they've got to lean us, that's what we did.   You tell them to pick it up for them. 
And that run by Carlos, it's God‑given.   To be tackled like that and keep moving forward, that's sweet.

Q.   Couple things.   Number one, did you punt the ball on that last play?
BRAXTON MILLER:   Yeah.   I feel like it's a tradition, I feel every time we win at home I punt the ball.

Q.   22seconds left, you weren't worried?
BRAXTON MILLER:   No, just went out of bounds.

Q.   Bill was just asking you, how frustrating was it not to be on the field?   They had the ball for 18 minutes in the first half.   How frustrating was it for the offense not to be out there?
BRAXTON MILLER:   Some of the guys pointed that out to me, too.   They are just trying to run down the clock so we can't be on the field score points, like we did.   And we just need to stop on defense.   That's what they did, took advantage of it.

Q.   Just want to ask about the touchdown to Philly.   You guys needed a big play there to even the game up.   And what do you see there, a coverage break, apparently he's wide open over the top.   What happened on that?
BRAXTON MILLER:   You've got two playmakers in the backfield.   They point out Donte, because he does outside sweeps and stuff like that.   Good play by coach.   The preparation with that play and studying film and they played that formation.

Q.   Braxton, obviously your third game back, is that what this offense can be, what you guys were in the third quarter, and does it finally feel good to get that game under your belt?
BRAXTON MILLER:   Feels really good out there.   Just came together.   Defense wasn't doing as good as it was, and just lean on each other and that's how it should be.   The offense take advantage of what's in front of them.

Q.   Looked like they played a lot of cover two with a man under.   How much have you guys seen that this year, and how difficult is that for this offense to throw the ball against? 
BRAXTON MILLER:   Only time I seen it was against our defense in camp.   That was way in August and July.   We made adjustment with it.   I just read the coverage.   If the first read ain't there, it's easy enough for me to get the first down on my feet.

Q.   Just some of the moves you made in the open field were routes we've seen from you before.   Just how does it feel to know that you could do that again and that your knee would hold up and how hard was it the past couple of games when you were playing but maybe feeling like you couldn't do that?
BRAXTON MILLER:   Right.   Carl brought that up to me again.   Exciting to make that.   I just did like how I'm supposed to do and got treated the whole week and it helps.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT