OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2011
Braxton Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. If you can kind of take me through this game. It seemed like you got more and more confident and comfortable as the game went on, were you a little jittery off the top making your first start, and how did it start to become more comfortable with you once you got into that second and third quarter?
 BRAXTON MILLER: Well, the guys kept talking to me to be out there, be comfortable, do what I do. And I was excited to play.
 And I know we had to get a "W". So I just had to do what I had to do, run the ball. And the offensive line did a really good job, receivers and running backs.

 Q. Was it fast early, or did you notice any of that?
 BRAXTON MILLER: Everybody was ready to get out there, excited. At first it was fast but things started slowing down for me.

 Q. How did you sleep last night? What were your jitters before the game if you had any?
 BRAXTON MILLER: I slept pretty good. I really had no jitters at all.

 Q. Braxton, can you talk about the on-field relationship you seem to be developing with Devin Smith? Is that something that you've seen develop in practice? And can you just talk a little bit about your relationship with him on the field?
 BRAXTON MILLER: Comfortable in practice in the things we do, we take time out to throw the ball to each other and the other receivers, so I guess we're getting a connection on the field. And just keep working harder for the next game.

 Q. How many of those plays were called runs, how many did you just take off and kind of want to do your thing? Looked like you got some good licks towards the end of the game, how are you feeling?
 BRAXTON MILLER: This is the defense they run. And as they run the defense, holes open up. And nobody's open I'm going to take off get the yards because that's what my team needs. And do what I have to do to get the first down and stuff like that.

 Q. How are you?
 BRAXTON MILLER: I'm good.

 Q. You had a rough first drive, 3 and out with a rough snap. What did the coaching staff say to you after that drive to keep your head in the game and get you back in the groove?
 BRAXTON MILLER: They just said things happen; you gotta be prepared for it. And just on the second drive we just moved the ball more and things like that.

 Q. First half, were you trying to hurdle that guy when you got hit and knocked upside down, and also about the late hit in the third quarter, looked like it shook you up for a moment?
 BRAXTON MILLER: Yeah, my head hit the surface pretty hard, but I'm cool now. Everything's all right.

 Q. Were you trying to hurdle him?
 BRAXTON MILLER: I mean, I don't know. I don't know, I guess. 

 Q. That's two games in a row, your first series out there at home, Mike Brewster kind of skids it to you on the snap, both -- last time you fell on it, this time you were able to pick it up and kind of make something happen. Did you have a little conversation with Mike about maybe getting that thing up a little bit on those first/third down series in the game?
 BRAXTON MILLER: Throughout the game with the ball, people get a lot of sweat on themselves, and the ball's got slippery and things happen. You know, it's all good.

 Q. How exactly did you find out this week that you were going to be the starter? What day was it? Who told you? What was your immediate reaction when you found out you'd start today?
 BRAXTON MILLER: We just work hard through practice. And they just made the decisions that they had to make through the coaching staff. So it had to be good enough for the team and whatever they had to do.

 Q. How did it feel when you heard the words that you were going to be the starter, pretty exciting for a young guy?
 BRAXTON MILLER: It just meant I had to work harder and get in the film room and study the other opponent.

 Q. What did you learn today from playing the whole game?
 BRAXTON MILLER: Just play fast and things come a lot easier.

 Q. I'm wondering like at halftime or anything, anybody like coaches or anybody say anything they were worried you were running too much or get out of bounds or they thought you were taking some undue punishment?
 BRAXTON MILLER: No. Not really. Like when I got hit, when I flipped up in the air, they said just slide next time. That's going to be in the back of my mind.

 Q. Can you rate your play, grade yourself? How much of your potential did we see realized today? 
 BRAXTON MILLER: That's up to the coaches. So we go back and see the film, see how I did. So it's up to the coaches.

 Q. You're going to wait on the film?
 BRAXTON MILLER: Yeah, I'm going to wait on the film. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT