ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2018
Peter Karmis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Phenomenal start, four birdies in six holes.  That's the way you want to climb up the leaderboard?
PETER KARMIS: Exactly.  I played well today.  I drove it quite straight today.  I putted well and hit a number of shots close, which helps the cause, as well.  There was no wind this morning.  The breeze just came up maybe on our last nine holes.  The course is pure.  I mean, all the courses are pure.  This one's awesome.
Q. Your record in this event, do you like it?  Do you enjoy links golf?
PETER KARMIS: Yeah, it's awesome.  I think it's my favorite event in the world, honestly.  I've only played it once before, but it's awesome.  It's so much fun.  You're playing at St. Andrews.  I mean, I played St. Andrews yesterday, Kingsbarns today, Carnoustie tomorrow.  Three top-class courses and there's obviously the history there, as well.  Yesterday the wind was pumping at St. Andrews.  It's a monster with the wind.  I actually can't believe how well, how competitive the course is.
It's a proper championship course and it's one of the oldest courses in the world.  I mean, can you believe it?  I can't believe it.  You would think it would be much easier than it is but it was actually hard yesterday.  I can't believe how tough it was yesterday.
Q. And a lovely weekend, you're right within touching distance?
PETER KARMIS: Yeah, look, I think I've had quite a good draw, as well.  Playing early today definitely helps.  I think everyone gets a chance to play early, but I think playing early today helped because there was no wind early.  Now there's probably a half a club or a club of wind now.  It's a bit different.
Look, I'm just excited to be here.  The courses are just so much fun to play.  You cannot believe it.  Honestly, you have to have a holiday, this is where you come and play.
Q. Having the opportunity to play the Old Course in a final round on Sunday, that's special, as well?
PETER KARMIS: The problem is I don't know the courses as well.  A lot of the players have played the courses a few times, maybe they come on holiday and play the Old Course, etc.  My only issue is knowing what to do when the wind changes.  That's the thing, it can literally change in a moment, hard the other way, and all bets are off and you don't know what to do.  That's the thing.  It's tricky to figure out what to do because a lot of shots are blind at the Old Course, but it's so much fun.  The holes are just so awesome and it is in such good condition, as well.  It's just so much fun to play it.  You can't believe it.
Q. All going according to plan and looking forward to the weekend?
PETER KARMIS: Yeah, I think yesterday what helped me is my short game was good.  The Old Course, you putt lot from next to the green, and because everything is so tight -- I did quite well putting in that hurricane yesterday, and then today, I putted well, as well.  I made quite a few birdies.  I think I made seven birdies today, so that's pretty good.
A couple bogeys, but you know, the problem is, if you get a funky bounce, it's hard.  That's links golf, and I think you've just got to embrace the nature of links golf.  You can hit it dead in a bunker.  There's gorse bushes.  You actually can't hit it out of there.  It's prickly.  It's basically a penalty drop unless you want to lose a limb.
It's so much fun.  Links golf is the best.  I can't believe how much fun it is, and you can play in the cold somehow because you can hit the low one.  Whereas at home, it's hot, nothing runs.  It's hectic.  Yeah, a bit of cold.  Just hit it lower.  It works out okay.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT