NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LAKERS VS. NUGGETS
September 18, 2020
Michael Malone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Los Angeles Lakers 126, Denver Nuggets 114
Q. You guys finished that first quarter with a two-point lead and I'm wondering, in terms of controlling what you can control, obviously having your two guys in foul trouble was a contributing factor here, but how did this one get away after that first quarter?  What changed?
MICHAEL MALONE:   Well, even in the first quarter we didn't guard anybody.  Our offense was able to score the ball, but there was little defense.  A huge point of emphasis going into this series was transition, getting back, makes, misses, turnovers, dead balls.  They scored 25 transition points tonight and 15 turnovers for 20 points fueled their break.
Then in the second quarter, to your point, I'll have to go back and watch the film, but I know that they only shot 42 percent in that quarter, but they went to the foul line 24 times in one quarter.  Twenty-four times in a quarter, which is an extremely high number, on pace for almost a hundred, We were called for 16 personal fouls in that quarter.  And then on top of that seven turnovers, again fueling their break.
I would have to go back and watch the film to see what we can do better, how do we defend without fouling, because we're not going to beat that team by putting them on the foul line 37 times.  So that's definitely part of it.
Q. Obviously you mentioned the foul trouble.  How can you or what can you do to protect Nikola a little bit more and not have him pick up those ticky-tack fouls?
MICHAEL MALONE:   I don't know if there's anything I can do.  I can't go out there and play for him.  We just have to be a little bit smarter.  We got to show our hands.  Again, I'm looking forward to watching the film to see where all these fouls were called.  Obviously, in the second half things got evened out, but it was an extreme advantage for the Lakers in that first half.  So watch the film, see the fouls that are being called, why they're being called, should they have been called, and then try to learn from it and get better for Game 2.
Q. I know you're focused in on this game and what just happened, but meanwhile, the whole world seems to be reacting to the death of Ruth Bader Ginsburg.  As you guys continue to fight for justice, and the Supreme Court is supposed to be kind of a pinnacle of non-partisan justice, what are your thoughts on her passing?
MICHAEL MALONE:   I'm embarrassed to say this.  I really don't have any.  That's the first time I'm hearing of this.  Maybe because I'm so locked into this series so I really don't have anything to comment on that right now.  I apologize.
Q. Fouls are always tricky to talk about.  How do you fight for respect on the whistle?  And second, maybe more basketball, straight basketball, you got to keep them out of the paint if you're going to win this series.  How do you do that?
MICHAEL MALONE:   Yeah, I've been saying it for three days now.  The keys to beating this team are getting back in transition, protecting the paint and giving them one shot.  Obviously, we did a poor job of that tonight in all areas.  So how do you protect the paint?  You don't turn the ball over, which is one way of slowing them down in transition.  Then we need a much greater sense of urgency to get back.  We were giving up layups after we scored baskets ourselves.  So that indicates to me that our sense of urgency to get back was not anywhere remotely close to where it needed to be tonight.
And then Anthony Davis obviously had 37 points.  We have to do something different with him.  It was too easy for him tonight.  He did not feel us.  I think over 48 minutes we just can't play him the same, give him the same look.  So that's definitely something that we can look at the film and figure out how we can be better.
But for me, it's really simple.  It starts with just the urgency to get back, set your defense.  And when you're set, make sure we're showing a crowd to LeBron, we're showing a crowd to Anthony Davis and not being hugged up.
This was not a great game for us.  Yes, we scored in that first quarter.  But one thing I do know about our group: We have proven it time and time again that we can learn from our losses and figure out what we need to do better going into the next game and give ourselves a much better chance to win.
Q. You mentioned Anthony, his size, and how it was kind of easy on him.  How do you think Dwight Howard impacted this game with his physicality?  It felt like he was a difference-maker.
MICHAEL MALONE:   Yeah, he came in and played well.  Obviously, they started JaVale and came in with Morris first.  They were playing small, and then when they inserted Dwight into the game, I thought his size, his physicality, his athleticism, he made a huge contribution to their game.
He gave them great energy on both ends of the floor.  You look for the game: 16 minutes, 13 points, two blocks, two steals.  So he came in, did a good job on Nikola.  He's guarded Nikola well in the past.  And give him credit.  He was ready to go tonight and he helped impact the game for them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT