NBA DRAFT 2017
June 22, 2017
Zach Collins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Could you start out with an opening statement, what you'll bring to Portland?
ZACH COLLINS: I'm just real excited, man.  My dream just came true.  I'm just going to go to Portland, give them everything I've got and help them win some games.
Q. There was that trade confusion before the draft; were you confused, or were you alerted to the situation and did you know it was going to happen?
ZACH COLLINS: I kind of knew it was going to happen.  Me and my agent were talking at the table before they said my name, and he told me that Sacramento was going to take the pick, and then Portland was going to trade for it and get me.  I kind of just found out a little bit before.  But it still didn't matter.  When he said my name and I walked up on that stage, it was nothing like I've ever experienced.
Q. You're going to Portland, which is known for their guards.  What else do you think you can bring to add depth to that team at the 4 position?
ZACH COLLINS: I think I can bring my shooting ability.  I think I can stretch the floor, and I think in today's game shooting the 3, regardless of position, is really important.  I think I can bring some toughness, some shot-blocking, rebounding, and I just think I can bring a winning mentality.
Q. Yesterday you talked about wouldn't it be fun to stay in the Northwest, and here it is, it happened.  Talk about that.
ZACH COLLINS: Yeah, I mean, you never know when -- I mean, you guys watch the draft all the time, it's so unpredictable.  And to be able to get your name called up and you realize that you're honestly going maybe like a two-hour or hour-and-a-half flight away from where you grew up your whole life, it's just another comfort level you have going into a new experience.
Q. Do you feel like when a team trades for you that there's more that you have to be for them as a player?
ZACH COLLINS: No, I feel like I'm my toughest critic and I expect more of myself than anyone, and regardless if they traded me or not, my mindset wouldn't change.
Q. How familiar are you with what the Trail Blazers do particularly from an offensive perspective, and how do you think you might fit in?
ZACH COLLINS: I'm not too familiar with the way they play.  I haven't really studied their sets or anything like that.  But I know they're tough.  That Western conference is a tough conference.  It's loaded with talent.  But I just know they're a tough team and they don't back down from anybody, and obviously like you said they've got Dame and C.J. and those bigs over there right now, they're pretty well balanced, and I think I can add to that.
Q. Portland is probably one of the hipper markets to play in.  We have a guy from Queens that plays there, Moe Harkless --
ZACH COLLINS: Sounds familiar, yeah.
Q. Anyway, you'll get to know him when you're out there.
ZACH COLLINS: Yeah, for sure.
Q. In general from a defensive perspective, that's been one of the areas of emphasis for the Trail Blazers the past couple years.  How do you feel like from an NBA defensive perspective you might be able to fit, and not necessarily maybe with the Blazers but just in general with your skills?
ZACH COLLINS: I just think I can bring my shot-blocking that I did a pretty good job of that in college.  I think I can bring that to the NBA.  The NBA game is different, but timing and all that stuff, I think it comes natural to shot blockers, and I think I have that.  I think I'm going to bring that.  I think I'm going to bring a lot of defensive rebounding, boxing out, fighting for rebounds, and I think that toughness under the rim is something I'm going to bring.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT