ATP CUP
January 3, 2020
Tim Henman
Jamie Murray
Joe Salisbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DIMITROV-LAZAROV/Murray-Salisbury   
7-6, 6-7, 11-9   
Team Bulgaria - 2   
Team Great Britain - 1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Jamie, is that the latest you have ever played a match? And if so, by how much and what was it like?  
JAMIE MURRAY: I assume so, yeah. I don't know what the time is now. I couldn't have played anything later.   
 Q.  I mean, does it actually have much of a material sort of effect on the passage of the match?  
JAMIE MURRAY: No, I don't think so. I think it's obviously just -- I mean, it's annoying, isn't it, let's be honest, to have to play at that time. For everyone, I mean, for everyone involved in the tournament, isn't it? But if you're going to have best-of-three-set singles matches starting at 5:30, 6:00, 7:00 -- we didn't start till 7:30 today.   
It's a shame, because you start the match, singles, there's 5 or 6,000 people there, but by the time you get to play there is a few hundred. That's not really what the event should be about.   
But, I mean, whatever. We had enough chances to win the first set, had enough chances to win the tiebreak, as well. At the end we didn't do it. You know, we lost, and that's disappointing.   
 Q.  Tim, I know it's immediately after the tie, but what's your overall thoughts and reflections and your first tie sitting in the captain seat for the first time?  
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that's right. As Jamie said, the overriding emotion is disappointment, but I think when you reflect on, you know, the way all the boys performed today, you know, I couldn't have been more proud of them. They played some phenomenal tennis.   
You know, Cam had a real fight out there and found a way to come through. Evo played some phenomenal tennis. Dimitrov was able to raise his game and deserved to come out on top because he played brilliantly.   
As Jamie just said in the doubles, we know all these sports at the highest levels have very, very fine margins. It comes down to one or two points at the end. You know, match point at 9-7, Jamie hits the corner and Dimitrov hits a backhand winner. That can go anywhere.   
But credit to them. You know, it was a great match, and the circumstances are the same for both teams, but it's a tough one to take right now.   
 Q.  I assume kind of must-win matches now, aren't they, to go through?  
TIM HENMAN: Yeah. Yeah, obviously there is not too many events where you get a second chance, but certainly round-robin format is one of them.   
It won't change our attitude or approach the way we prepare, and we'll be all ready to go tomorrow which is another great opportunity.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT