PELICAN WOMEN'S CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2020
Ally McDonald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Ally, you gave it all you could.  Fighting until the very end.  Just how are you feeling coming off the course today?
ALLY McDONALD:   I feel great.  I mean, obviously when I tee'd it up today I wanted to do my best to kind of close the gap as much as I could, play solid golf.
Once we got to a point I just tried to take Sei Young out of it and play like a little tournament within the rest of the field.  She got out to such a big lead on the last few holes.  I'm really happy with how I played.  I hung in there.  Made some great up and downs.  That shot on 18 for me is probably one of the best shots I've ever hit just under the circumstances and everything.
So I'm really pleased.  Obviously following a win to get another second and be in contention, that's all I can ask for.
Q. Being able to not just second place after such a win, when you're going up 18 there knowing that it might not be first place, but just knowing you were still able to keep in contention, how are you feeling about that?
ALLY McDONALD:   Yeah, I'm super excited.  That's a really difficult shot.  The pin is tucked in the back.  I had 185 yards with the wind into.  You can bail out left.  Obviously it was almost near impossible up and down from over there.
So I just committed to my shot.  I had a good number, and I just wanted to finish the round off with a good look for birdie and hopefully give myself a solo second.  Yeah.
Q. There were some low scores out there today.  What did you think was so different about the course today?
ALLY McDONALD:   The wind was definitely down.  There were some good pins that you could kind of feed off some undulations.  Yeah, I would probably say just overall had to have been the wind which was a little bit less today, which can help with your just controlling your ball.
Q. What was the club that you hit on 18?
ALLY McDONALD:   4-hybrid.
Q. Just your overall impressions of this tournament, first-year event, baby course.
ALLY McDONALD:   Yeah.
Q. What did you think about how it went and being in Tampa for the first time in 40 years?
ALLY McDONALD:   Yeah, I think it's obviously great.  The host golf course has been so welcoming.  At times you would think that COVID actually doesn't exist around here, but obviously we are so excited to see these people come out and watch during a pandemic.
I mean, next year hopefully when we are back you just think about the numbers we can generate without a pandemic.  I think that is super exciting.  I think the golf course with the renovations, having another year to kind of settle in, too, will make it even better.
I think a lot of events in Florida are great just because you have potential great weather year-round, so coming back here next year hopefully no COVID and having spectators out will be great.
Q. You had a lot of the boats watching you on the last hole in Georgia.  What was it like to be standing over that 4-hybrid and seeing fans behind the green for a first time in a long time?
ALLY McDONALD:   Yeah, that's kind the picturesque look for us on the LPGA.  People behind 18 green.  More than likely grandstands, so you never know what this hole might look like eventually if they decide to put up a grandstand.  They might not need to because they've got such a beautiful porch setting there and people can sit on the hill, a sea of fans.
You kind of get within yourself, but to be able to hit that shot in front of all these people was really cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT