SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 8, 2019
Ally McDonald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Alley, second round, second day in a row to shoot 67 out here at the Seaview Course.  What was the key to your round today?
ALLY McDONALD: The front nine was really good.  I hit some great shots.  The first hole, I dunked it for eagle, which was kind of a crazy start.  But I made a few birdies on the front nine and the back nine I just kind of hung on.  The wind got up.  There was some tough pins on the back and then managed to birdie the very last hole.  So it's just kind of consistent.
Q. What was the yardage on the eagle and how does it feel when you start off a round like that?
ALLY McDONALD: We had 92 yards, and it was weird, because I wasn't really sure if it wasn't in.  I was like, "Did that go in?  Did it not?"  It was really cool.
I told Dan; he was almost like, "Come on, be more excited."  But I kind of stayed kind of level because I didn't really believe that it went in, but it did go in.
Q. And to finish with a birdie on 18, how much confidence does that give you going into the final round tomorrow?
ALLY McDONALD: It feels good.  I played the par 5s well, which this golf course, I think yields a lot of birdies.  So if you can take advantage of the par 5s, it's a key for the week.
Tomorrow I'm just going to keep the same game plan.  There are certain holes where I need to be a little more conservative and there are holes where you need to be more aggressive because you have wedges in.  Tomorrow I'll keep the same game plan and keep it rolling.
Q. How does your game plan change for a 54-hole event?
ALLY McDONALD: You know, I think you can get in the mind-set that it feels like more of a sprint than a marathon, a four-round tournament.  But I don't think it completely changes as a whole.  I'll still stick with the same mind-set and play to my strengths and play conservative when I need to and play aggressive when I can.  As a whole, I don't think it changes a whole lot for me.
Q. You're coming off a great finish at the U.S. Women's Open.  How do you feel about your game right now and where it's headed?
ALLY McDONALD: Feels good.  I'm rolling it really well, which is a big confidence boost for me, and just trusting that if I do miss some greens and if I hit a pretty good chip up to the green, I'm able to roll in a few par putts, especially on the back nine there.  So it feels really good and I'll obviously just want to keep the momentum rolling.
Q. How much is the Solheim Cup on your mind week-in, week-out, and trying to rack up points for Team USA?
ALLY McDONALD: It's obviously a goal that I have.  It's something that I don't keep in the forefront of my mind.  It's more of if you check off the list and just take care of what you're doing at the current time, that if it's meant to be, then everything will fall into place, but you just have to be where your feet are at the current time and that's what I'm trying to do every week and play week-to-week solidly and hopefully that will get me in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT