U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 2019
Ally McDonald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Ally, shooting 4 under at an Open any time is pretty great.  Doing it on a weekend has got to be even better.  
ALLY McDONALD: Yeah, I mean, these last couple days, I just kind of tried to hang on.  There were some tough holes, but I converted a lot of pars and, unfortunately, made more bogeys than I wanted to the first two days.   
Today, I played really consistent.  I hit the ball really well and was able to roll in a few birdies.  Steady golf is the key out here.  I'm excited, ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Was your approach more aggressive?  Was it any different than the first couple of days?  
ALLY McDONALD: No.  Actually, this is my fifth U.S. Open, and I've yet to make a cut.  So I felt a little bit of a monkey on my back.  Just every Open I've played in, since it's our National Championship, I wanted to play well in it.  I think, once I was able to get that off my back, I was able to play with a little bit less tension today.  Yeah, just played a little bit more steady and hit really good golf shots, even though I had some 50 footers out there.   
The greens are playing really firm, so it's just excepting, when I have that type of shot, that I'm going to have a 50-footer and trying to roll in, two-putt.   
 Q.  Is there any particulars that you took from missing the cuts the last Opens, any lessons you brought into today specifically?  
ALLY McDONALD: It's such about being steady.  I think you can try to do too much on a U.S. Open golf course, because it plays tough, it plays firm.  If you try to do too much, you're going to end up getting yourself into more trouble than you need to.  Short siding yourself out here is difficult.   
I guess through the past few years, I've just learned that it doesn't take heroics to play well.  It's just playing smart, playing steady.  You've obviously got to strike the ball really well, drive it in the fairway.  I was able to do that the first two days and then today play with a little bit more patience and just knowing that I've got the monkey off my back and made the cut here.   
 Q.  What have you thought of this course over the first few days of the tournament?  
ALLY McDONALD: I played the 2013 Women's Am here.  It's playing pretty similar.  Obviously, a little bit longer.  Maybe the greens are definitely firmer.  Pin positions may be a little more difficult because it's a U.S. Open.   
Altogether, I think the first two days was scorable, but the wind definitely picked up in the afternoon yesterday and  with the weather delay, made it a little bit tougher.   
I was able to execute some good shots down the stretch and roll in some key par putts that got me into the weekend, and today was able to play steady golf.   
 Q.  Now you're in uncharted territory.  What do you think your mindset will be coming into tomorrow?  
ALLY McDONALD: Nothing different.  I've played some good golf this year.  I've played well in a Major.  So this being the National Championship, I obviously want to play my best and give myself a lot of looks tomorrow.   
But overall, the mindset doesn't change.  I trust in what I've worked hard for and what I've trained for the last several years, even in college, junior golf, and it's just letting things happen and not trying to force anything, and that's what I'll try to do tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT