RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 5, 2017
Ally McDonald
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. After putting together three great rounds, you must be excited to get back out there tomorrow.
ALLY McDONALD: I'm very excited.  I got off to a little bit of a shaky start.  The nerves got me on the first hole for sure, but I was able to stay composed.  Honestly the turnaround for me was the big 30-foot par save that I made on No. 5 that jump-started my round, and played steady golf from there in.
Q. It's a bit of an unknown for you, the links golf, the Women's British Open.  Has that helped coming in here without a real expectation upon yourself?
ALLY McDONALD: Yeah, I think so.  I think it really allows you to use your imagination, so without any expectation, not much experience on links golf courses, I've just been trying to enjoy myself and enjoy the experience and enjoy the walk and play my best.
Q. Sharing a house with Stacy Lewis this week, how much help has she been?
ALLY McDONALD: Just allowing me to stay with her is a huge help.  But obviously any time somebody opens their place to stay is a huge help and is very generous of her and her family.  I've enjoyed hanging out and getting to know her a little bit more and hopefully we'll be future Solheim partners or something in years to come.
Q. You might be out with her tomorrow, could happen, but you will be in one of the leading groups.  We know that for sure.  How much do you embrace that tomorrow?
ALLY McDONALD: Yeah, I'm just going to do exactly what I've been doing.  Just really try to stay in the moment, enjoy the walk with my caddie, Dan.  We're having a great time.  We don't know what the weather is going to be like.
I haven't looked at all but with the different elements today than I saw the first two days, I was really proud of myself for hanging in and playing steady golf for sure.  So I'm looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. Anything you did in St. Andrews to add to your education last night?
ALLY McDONALD: No, not any -- me and Alison Lee, we went to eat because we waited an Alison to finish and then we grabbed a quick dinner.  I think I started a movie and then got sleepy on my computer, so I went to sleep.  That's all the venturing out I've done.
Q. Only other thing, tomorrow is a late tee time, so how did you sort of cope with today's late tee time?  How did you spend your day?
ALLY McDONALD: Any time you have a late tee time, I feel like that's a good thing.  I kind of slept -- I can't sleep super late.  I feel really groggy, kind of just low energy if I sleep really, really late.  So I get up about 8.30 and to go enjoy some breakfast.  Get some coffee, for sure.  I'm a big coffee person.  And I just kind of hung out, read a little bit of my book that I've been reading.  Did some stretching.
Q. What are you reading?
ALLY McDONALD: I actually just finished it this morning.  It's called, In a Pit with a Lion on a Snowy Day.  It's a great book about a biblical guy named Benaiah.  It's been a great motivation for me just to kind of apply some of that to what I'm doing.
Q. Thoughts on the position you'll be in the chasing pack tomorrow?
ALLY McDONALD: IK is putting up some great numbers but I can only do what I can do and control what I can control.  It's definitely going to be a fight.  You don't really know what the elements are going to be.  Anything can pop up, as we saw.  It was pretty good for a little while and then that big cloud came up.
So you just have to be prepared for anything and no matter what, stay in your element, stay in control and enjoy what you're doing.
Q. You say enjoy; who do you think enjoys final rounds the most when it's a bit of a gulf between the leader and the chasing pack?  The one that's being chased or the guys that are doing the chasing?
ALLY McDONALD: Well, I know if I had a pretty good cushion, I would like to be the one being chased.  But I feel like any time you're in a position where you can make your way up the leaderboard or chase somebody that you know might kind of -- to most people be out of reach, you can kind of play kind of freely and know that something low is probably going to be what has to win it.
But knowing that, you just do what you're supposed to do, and like I said, stay in control of what you're doing.  You don't know what she's going to do.  Hopefully post a good number.  See where that ends up.
Q. Mel Reid said earlier she's going all guns a-blazing to go set a course record which would be a 63; is that a winning number?
ALLY McDONALD: You know, I don't know.  I don't know what IK is going to finish up.  I haven't seen.  I think obviously a 63 would put you in a pretty good position to set yourself in first at the end of the day.
But you know, I think it's still golf.  It's still one shot at a time.  Anything can happen.  So I'm just going to take it a hole at a time and if it's whatever it is, is what it is.
Q. Film tonight?
ALLY McDONALD: I haven't picked one out yet.  I watched The Age of Adaline last night.  Started it, got sleepy, finished it this morning.  I'll have to search Netflix and find something good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT