PACIFIC-12 CONFERENCE MEDIA DAY
October 17, 2013
Larry Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'll have some remarks from Commissioner Larry Scott and we'll have some questions as well. 
LARRY SCOTT:   Thank you, Dave.   Good afternoon, everyone.   Delighted to see you all here.   I know it's been a long day, where you've had a chance to hear from each of the Pac‑12 coaches and student‑athletes from each of our schools.   I wanted to first give you a personal welcome, thank you for being here, and also to share a few remarks with you. 
And just delighted to see a great turnout for what's the preview for what I expect to be a very, very exciting Pac‑12 basketball season. 
Also, I want to thank our colleagues from the Pac‑12 Networks for opening up the studios and the space here, it's working out very well, and this is a great example of what we envisioned when we created the Pac‑12 Networks, finding different ways to connect with our fans, with the media, there's a lot going on here today. 
That demonstrates how we're trying to cover the Pac‑12, the conference of champions, and in a much more comprehensive and holistic way than we have ever been able to before. 
In addition to live streaming all of the main stage activities here, all the coaches and the student‑athletes are having a chance to visit down in the studio with our analyst, Mike Yam, Ernie Kent, Don MacLean and Jarron Collins on the set.   And they're having preview of the season and go in depth and in addition to the work you do here today having a chance to speak directly to our fans. 
We love through the network to be able to showcase events and programming that's meaningful to the fans, peel back the curtain and give them a much more in depth understanding of what's happening with our teams.   That's really what the networks and our digital resources are all about. 
And we want to do it in a way that's consistent with the values of the conference.   Really creating those direct connections with the fans, giving fans more of what they want.   Also delighted to see some of our advertisers and sponsors here today having a chance to interact without ‑‑ they're an essential contributor and component to making everything happen that's happening here today.
So as I know you've heard today from our coaches, from all 12 of our teams, there's tremendous excitement and enthusiasm for the season that's ahead.   I certainly join in this excitement.   I guess it is my fifth Pac‑12 Basketball Media Day.   And this is certainly the most anticipation and excitement I've felt around Pac‑12 basketball, all the trajectory is absolutely going in the right direction.   Pac‑12 is well on its way back to being amongst the best college basketball conferences in the country, being in the discussion about being the best.   So it really delights me, as well as our coaches. 
Across the board, last year was really an inflection point for the conference, a real turnaround season in many respects.   Our fans were treated to great games, a competitive conference from beginning to end.   Our schools recorded signature victories in the early non‑conference play.   The conference schedule was amazing in terms of how competitive it was.   How many close games we had that came down to the wire.   And then of course the Pac‑12 Men's Basketball Tournament in LasVegas, incredible games.   Ultimately sending five teams to the NCAA Tournament.   A marked improvement over what we had done in recent years beforehand. 
I definitely see this trend continuing.   We have got a lot of great returning players in the conference.   A lot of great newcomers.   Expectations are high. 
This morning, as I was coming in, I saw the USA Today coaches poll came out and we have got three Pac‑12 teams ranked in the Top‑25, with three more also receiving votes.   This is better than it's been in the last few years and certainly represents a growing recognition and respect for the increased strength, increased depth of the Pac‑12 conference. 
Guiding the talent of course is some of the smartest and most creative basketball coaching minds in the country that are here at the Pac‑12 schools.   And we're really fortunate that we have got a mix of seasoned veteran coaches with amazing accomplishments, but also some new blood, some young talented coaches who are coming into the conference, bringing new style, new energy, more diversity to the conference. 
Certainly want to welcome Coach Alford, Coach Enfield, to the Pac‑12.   I know they're going to bring a lot of excitement to Pac‑12 basketball in L.A. and throughout the conference, very exciting time in that regard. 
All the coaches all the teams have their sights set on making it to LasVegas, which has got a lot more significance this year than it's had in the past now that we have got a year under our belt and people saw come to life what we hoped for.   By moving that Pac‑12 basketball tournament to the MGM Garden Grand Arena in Vegas.   For those of you that couldn't join us there, I hope you'll be there, last year, I hope you'll join us this year.   It was our first last year, I think it's fair to say it was a huge success, exceeded expectations in many regards.
The caliber of play on the court was incredible.   We had five games decided by three points or less, nine of the 11 games were determined by single digits, and there were three overtime games.   We were thrilled at the crowds, the buzz in the atmosphere, the intimate atmosphere, the energy.   Finally last season felt like we had a Pac‑12 conference tournament befitting of the caliber and the heritage of this conference.   And I really feel like we are building something that's going to be a must see event, something you circle on your calendar every year to go to if you're a real hard‑core Pac‑12 basketball fan.   A not to be missed event. 
The great play that took place on the courts during the season was telecast and broadcast last year to a broader audience than we ever had before.   And all of the games this year will be televised on one of our media platforms.   On ESPN, Fox Sports One, CBS, or the Pac‑12 Networks.   And as we saw last year, with improved play, but also improved exposure, it's really helped dramatically in terms of giving our conference the exposure and the respect that it deserves.   We're beginning to see the fruits of that in terms of the national perception of the conference, not just at the top, but top to bottom. 
Television exposure makes a big difference for our fans.   Consider this:   Two seasons ago there were 90 Pac‑12 games during the season that weren't televised at all on any platform.   That wasn't the case last year, won't be the case this year or going forward. 
45 games this year will be broadcast on ESPN.   ESPN has an enormous impact on the college basketball community.   The perception of our conference being back on ESPN has been a very positive thing.   So having 45 games on ESPN platforms is terrific for us. 
Our lineup on ESPN certainly conveys the sense that the exposure that we're getting, the partnerships that we have are comparable with any conference. 
On top that have we have got Fox Sports One as a new network that will broadcast 25 Pac‑12 games.   Last year those games, 22 I think it was, were on FSN.   Fox Sports One is a new national sports channel, it's going to be placing a big emphasis on Pac‑12 college basketball, help us reach even a broader national audience with the 25 games that they have got this year.   And they alternate back and forth with ESPN in terms of being our television partner around the Pac‑12 basketball tournament in LasVegas. 
Last year ESPN televised the championship game, the semi final game, a quarter final game.   This year that will be Fox Sports One.   That will alternate back and for the every year. 
The remaining of our 221 games, 149 to be exact, are going to be appearing on the Pac‑12 Networks.   When you look at the number of games, on the Pac‑12 Networks, and the fact that every single one of our teams will have at least 12 games on the Pac‑12 Networks, as well as much more shoulder programming, coaches shows, holistic coverage of our basketball season, it's really providing unprecedented access and exposure for our student‑athletes, our programs, that benefits them and the conference in many ways. 
And it's also amazing for our fans that are able to get it.   The feedback that we get from our fans about being able to see all these games, being able to see all the programming around football season, basketball season, Olympic sports, has been fantastic.   But we realize not all Pac‑12 fans are able to get the Pac‑12 Network at this point in time, that's our ultimate goal, certainly remains a great source of frustration for us that Direct TV continues to refuse to give Pac‑12 fans that are subscribers access to the Pac‑12 Networks and we won't rest until they and any others that aren't carrying it do decide to carry it. 
Our fans have been very patient, I know they're frustrated, I share their frustration and we're going to keep working diligently in terms of whatever we can do from our end to try to make that happen.   But at a minimum, like I did at football media day, I feel like we owe our fans real candor, our team has continued to try to approach Direct TV and try to convince them to carry it, so far to no avail, the impasse continues, we certainly have no expectation that the network is going to carry the network any time soon, not during basketball season, so again, like we did before football, we'll urge our fans that are serious about wanting to follow every game from their favorite team ‑‑ again every team is going to be on the network exclusively at least a dozen times, this season, with a lot of meaningful games.   We urge those fans that don't want to miss to switch to a carrier that does carry the Pac‑12 Networks. 
The good news is, fans in every one of our territories now have multiple options.   The recent addition of AT&T U‑verse was huge for fans in the L.A. Area, the Bay Area, that now have cable options, they have got satellite options through Dish and new they have got tele‑co options through AT&T U‑verse, a really high quality distributor. 
So the distribution, the growth, the success of the network continues.   And we're glad fans have a lot of options, if they don't wants to miss any games. 
Before I wrap up, two other topics I want to comment on, I'm happy to take any questions that you've got, certainly want to emphasize the significant changes that we have made to officiating for the upcoming season.   We're really delighted that we have got a partnership with the Mountain West conference.   New coordinator, Bobby Dibler, who you heard from before, there's a lot of changes in officiating nationally and I'm glad we have got one of the most seasoned and respected coordinators in the country that's going to be at the helm of this western officiating alliance that we have put together, which is really cutting edge and I think reflects the direction officiating ought to go in for the future toward a national program.   The fact that we've got a western alliance that six conferences are participating in in one way or another I think is a big step in that direction. 
Our objective with this alliance is to provide the best officiating program possible for our teams, bar none.   I think now we're better positioned than we have ever been to attract new officials, the highest caliber officials, because we got more assignments, we have got a broader swath of territories of games, that can be offered to them.   And we have also made, we're also making a tremendous investment in training and evaluation and ultimately going to keep working diligently toward the goal of greater transparency, greater consistency in officiating.   Those are the goals that we'll be striving for. 
The kind of training that we envision began in earnest this fall.   We had, I think, the biggest officiating clinic that we ever had, that attracted officials from the six conferences in the west and promises to improve the consistency, the feedback, the transparency, the accountability across the conference and I'm pleased Bobby was here, able to talk to you directly, and he'll be available for you throughout the day if you have questions. 
Last topic is one actually I spoke about at football media day, but I want to emphasize again here today.   As discussions are going on nationally about new priorities with the NCAA and governance and various issues of national importance, high on the radar screen in basketball is one and done.   And what we're going to do about that going forward. 
It's a trend that's concerning for those of us in leadership positions in college sports.   Over the past couple years my colleagues and I, commissioners of the other conferences, have spent a lot of time working on football.   We have a new college football playoff that we made really important steps forward in terms of postseason college football. 
The next areas of focus is going to be on NCAA and governance, but also areas that we think need attention in basketball, and none is more important than seeing if we can make significant changes to the one and done rule. 
And the reason is, we feel that it really threatens the important balance of student‑athletes between the academic side and the athletic side and at times one and done and players passing through for a short period of time threatens to make a mockery of the student‑athlete experience for all the other‑‑ I'll speak for our conference‑‑ 7,000 student‑athletes that we have got in the Pac‑12 participating across all sports. 
Especially at Pac‑12 schools, where the educational side is valued so highly.   We think it's important that student‑athletes really fit in more the mainstream for all the other students that are going to school. 
So this is something that's going to be a priority for me, a priority for conference colleges throughout the country. 
And to emphasize, certainly support if young people do not want to go to college and they want to go play developmental leagues or play developmental leagues or play overseas and go pro right away, my view is they ought to be entitled to do that.   But if you do come into the college system, with all that entails, and are taking scholarship, etcetera, ought to be there for a longer, longer period of time. 
I realize this an issue that is going to require close work with the NBA, NBA Players Associations, both of which have new leaders coming in.   So looking forward to that discussion and hopefully collaborative solutions can be worked out.   But I believe the efforts is worth it and it's important. 
So I'll just wrap up by thanking you again for being here this is as an exciting a tame for Pac‑12 men's basketball as we have, had at least since I've been here.   Love the trajectory, the excitement nationally about what's going on with this conference, and look forward to seeing you during the season but for now happy to take any questions you may have while I'm here. 
THE MODERATOR:   Any questions? 

Q.   I think the Board of Directors are going to hear proposals regarding possible changes in the way that the NCAA goes about its business in a couple of weeks and people have been weighing in on the subject, you have at times, but can you, is there, is there a proposal that the Pac‑12 is making in that regard as far as operational or organizational changes in the NCAA? 
LARRY SCOTT:   Sure.   Well, we're well represented on the NCAA Board of Directors.   This year by Gene Block, who is the chancellor of UCLA.   So we have got a lot of direct input into whatever final decision making goes on there. 
We're not weighing in with a conference proposal, per se.   But we have got very engaged athletics directors, faculty representatives, others and we are spending a lot of time amongst conference commissioners across the country on listening.   Listening to what different groups have to stay.   And we'll be weighing in, no doubt, as conferences generally in terms of changes we would like to see.   But as Pac‑12 specifically, probably not, other than through our NCAA board representative. 

Q.   Wondering what your opinion was of the decision by Fox to show the Baylor/Kansas State game on their main network and relegate the Oregon/Washington game to Fox Sports One.   And also, the proliferation of the night games on Fox Sports One as well.   Is your relationship with Fox strained in any way these days? 
LARRY SCOTT:   We'll see how good my short‑term memory is.   I think there's three questions in there.   On the first one, in terms of Fox or ESPN's decisions week in, week out, or Pac‑12 Network, they're entitled to make their decisions about what games go on what platforms.   What their obligation is to us is to carry a certain number of games on the Fox broadcast network and a certain number of games they're entitled to carry on Fox Sports, Fox Sports One, last year it was FX, you may recall.   This year they're starting a new national network. 
So on any given week we don't really lobby or get hung up on those individual decisions, we have got protections in there.   In our TV agreements in terms of how many exposures have to be on the Fox broadcast channel versus Fox Sports One. 
So certainly I respect a very delicate balancing act they have got and ESPN's got working with a lot of different conferences in terms of where they slot. 
In terms of, I think your second question about night games, with our new TV agreements, we obviously are getting dramatically more revenue, more money from the TV networks than we got before.   With that absolutely came agreement to be much more flexible in terms of when we would play. 
So we're playing eight week night games now, whereas in our prior TV deal I think we only played four Thursdays.   During any given Saturday we are playing usually in three different broadcast windows.   12 or 12:30.   We'll play again at 3:30 or 4, and then we play, we have an evening window. 
But what you're seeing is a ‑‑ there are more evening games.   And what you're seeing is a combination of giving our network partners what's valuable to them, but also our commitment to make sure every game is broadcast nationally on either ESPN, Fox, or the Pac‑12 Networks. 
You'll recall that previous to this we would have some football games that wouldn't be aired nationally on an ESPN or Fox.   And they would, we used to call it fall through to just a local RSN.   So Comcast here in the Bay Area or Prime Ticket in L.A. or Root Sports up in the Pacific Northwest.   Those games weren't available to a full national audience. 
So we were determined to make sure that every single game is going to be available on a national platform, number one. 
Number two, to make sure that we significantly increased the revenue that our schools were able to get.   And in order to achieve that and putting games in different windows where they're not going overlap and getting the kind of revenue we wanted to get to put us on par with peer conferences ‑‑ in fact we wound up ahead of most‑‑ we had to agree to more night games as part of that. 
So that was a decision we made in consultation with our schools, so absolutely eyes wide open.   Everyone knew going in this could be the case. 
Our relationship with Fox is not strained, not strained at all.   There was a delay in the starting times I guess for this weekend's games‑‑ lost track of time ‑‑ last week, because we were trying to work out getting the game that's this weekend UCLA at Stanford on a national‑‑ it wasn't, it‑‑ either on Fox broadcast or on ABC.   Fox broadcast could not do it, because of the Major League Baseball Playoffs and their commitment to MLB to keep those windows free in the afternoon for Fox broadcast.   So we had to flip that game to ABC. 
There was a little confusion about that, took us a couple days to work out, but we wound up working out something that was consistent with our contract. 

Q.   I was wondering if there was any process or communication with Sean Miller after the officiating change and controversy last spring. 
LARRY SCOTT:   Sure.   Yeah, well, there's a lot of communication, obviously, around what happened.   And then it was important to us to do that independent study, which we felt was a very, very healthy thing to do.   And from our perspective that put what happened around the Pac‑12 basketball tournament behind us. 
So I've certainly reached out to Sean, I have spoken with Sean and all the administrators at Arizona and from my perspective that's all in the rear view mirror, while moving forward.   And Sean's been very engaged with Bob Dibler, as have the other coaches, in having input into our officiating program and really just looking forward, not looking backward at this point.

Q.   Just a follow‑up on the question about the NCAA.   If there's no written proposal from the Pac‑12, is there an unwritten vision that from the Pac‑12 that you would like to address or some of your top priorities? 
LARRY SCOTT:   Certainly.   I think the principles that we feel are particularly important going forward are things that I've expressed and I think will get incorporated in any proposals that come from conferences across the board.   And it really centers around a few key principles: 
Allowing high resource schools, like ours, in our conference, to be able to do better by student‑athletes.   There's been a lot of discussion about the stipend issue, covering the full cost of attendance, that just scratches the surface.   You've seen what we have tried to do where we're putting significant resources behind student‑athletes health and welfare, creating head trauma task force, we have committed to 3.5 million dollars in this first year to research around student‑athlete health. 
So there's a lot of things in that bucket that we would like to see happen in terms of doing a better job supporting student‑athletes that we don't want to be held back from being able to do, just because all schools in Division I can't afford to do them or don't want to do them. 
So that's a major one for us.   We have expressed our concerns about enforcement and making sure that there is a more effective investigation enforcement division of the NCAA.   That there's more consistency and fairness, transparency in decision making.   That's an important principle. 
We have talked about governance and making sure practitioners can be more involved in the process.   That's an important principle. 
So we have got some clearly articulated principles that we think are important directionally, as the NCAA moves forward through this reflection process they're going through.   The details will get worked out with fellow conferences as we develop our proposals.   But those are some of the themes. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT