NCAA MEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 15, 2015
Thomas Eshelman
Tyler Peitzmeier
Rick Vanderhook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Vanderbilt 4 - CS Fullerton 3
THE MODERATOR: Representing Cal State Fullerton, head coach Rick Vanderhook, shortstop Timmy Richards, reliever Tyler Peitzmeier and starter Thomas Eshelman.  Coach, an opening statement.COACH VANDERHOOK: That was a good baseball game.  I thought two teams went toe to toe.  We've been doing this for a couple of weeks now.  They've got a couple of pitches late in the game and they hit them.  And that last one went over the fence, and give them credit, you gotta hit it to do it.  And he hit it and he hit it good. And we lost.THE MODERATOR: Questions?Q. Rick, when was the decision made to go to Hockin after the delay, and when did you tell him?COACH VANDERHOOK: We made it about 30 minutes before the game.  He's got a good fastball.  We wanted to go with, you know -- we knew he was going three hitters, that's what he was doing.  And Zander hit it.  And then he walked a guy and he struck the guy out.  I mean, we're talking outs. And then to have Peitzy go out there for that long, he's had good stints, but he hit the ball pretty good against left-handers, numbers wise.  And we rolled with that.  Hockin has been throwing the ball well for us.Q. Tyler, can you take us through the at-bat of Kendall there at the end, what type of pitch was it?  Did it seem like it was good off the bat?TYLER PEITZMEIER: The first pitch was a fastball.  Got around on it pretty good.  And went to the slider.  It was a good slider.  And he just got a hold of it.Q. Coach, how disappointing was it yesterday when Thomas was in a rhythm there, to have the delay?  How much do you think that changed ultimately the outcome?COACH VANDERHOOK: Hindsight is 20/20.  I'm sorry, but he threw the ball pretty good to Wiel and all those guys.  And so it probably made a difference.  But probably made a difference for them on that, too.  They had a little more time to go and we both had the same chance.  So that's the way it is.Q. Thomas, can you talk about the momentum shift and your team emotionally, Sunday night on Vanderbilt and having to wait, how you felt this morning?THOMAS ESHELMAN: I mean, I don't think we're going to use that to an excuse.  I think we came out today and we were ready to play, and they put some good swings on the ball and were able to hit the ball in some key situations.  But we're not looking to blame the weather delay for any excuse on what happened today.Q. Rick, what was said in the mound visit in the ninth inning to Tyler, and did you notice any kind of difference or drop-off or anything from the eighth to the ninth?COACH VANDERHOOK: No, I just went down to calm him down.  He made a bad pitch to Reynolds and just said, you know, make the pitch and they'll hit it and we'll catch it.  But the pitch was down enough, and he just went down and got it pretty good.  He got it really good.Q. Rick, did it seem like it turned quickly there in the ninth?  Obviously you guys looked like you were well in control.  Did you see it turning that quick with a couple of doubles and a home run?COACH VANDERHOOK: No.  Because I think he got the next guy out pretty easily.  We had the guy up we wanted up.  I mean, that's who we wanted.  Numbers-wise, everything dictates that that guy doesn't handle left-handers very well. He went up there and took a big at-bat in a big moment and did what he was supposed to do.Q. For LSU on Tuesday, they have four players out of the top 10 in the batting average.  Coach, what are you looking forward to against LSU with their offense?COACH VANDERHOOK: To throw strikes.  I mean, that's the name of the game.  Seabold is going to go out and pitch against them.  LSU is great.  But they're human, and we'll go out and compete against them tomorrow and see who wins.Q. Tyler, can you describe the emotions of the day, even before the ninth inning, what it meant for you to pitch in this stadium with your personal background?  And if any of those emotions, if you felt any different when you were just an out or two away from saving that win?TYLER PEITZMEIER: It's the College World Series.  Personally didn't really mean anything.  Off the field it did, but once I got on the field none of that really made a difference.  Yeah, it kind of spiraled out of hand fast at the end, but there was no personal feelings, emotions.Q. Thomas, can you just describe the emotions of going to bed at night not knowing obviously you leave a guy on third, how you're rolling at that point?  What was that night like for you and when you're sitting there waiting for the game to start, was that one of the harder situations to be in as a player?THOMAS ESHELMAN: As a player you want to go out there and compete.  And leaving that situation it was frustrating, but when you play in the Midwest with all this weather, that happens.  And obviously in my mind I wanted to finish that inning, but I wasn't given the opportunity to.THE MODERATOR: Thank you


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT