MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 2, 2002
Curtis Strange
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Curtis, for spending a few minutes.  I know it's been a crazy couple of days here.  Congratulations, again, on the Ryder Cup.  You should be real proud of that.  Then you come home and it starts all over again.  Why don't you just make a couple of comments about the last couple days and we'll go into some questions.
CURTIS STRANGE: Well, I'm trying to get my sea legs under me.  It's been a long haul, it's been great fun.  It's been a lot of pressure, but to come home and just kind of relax a bill bit, my gosh.  I came home and got a good
steak last night.  My concern right now is just trying to play and not embarrass myself in all honesty.  It's been  a while since I've played a round.  You don't want to go out and embarrass yourself but it might be the case this week.  If it wasn't at home I wouldn't have played, let's put it this way, for a while.  But I'm here and I have to play for family and friends in the event.  I'm here and I hope to play decent.  That's what's on my mind right now.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Questions.
Q.  Do you have any thoughts on whether this will be the last go-around for this event and the bittersweetness of that?
CURTIS STRANGE: I think we're all extremely disappointed, for the fans, the volunteers, but more importantly, for the charities.  It's been a huge success here over the years for them, and we've given, I don't know how many dollars to the many charities, but it's been something that they need and can't survive without events like this, and hopefully the women's tournament continues that, but it's just  -- it's been a wonderful ride here with Kingsmill, the wonderful growth of Kingsmill and Anheuser-Busch here and what they do for the community and professional golf in this area, and it's been a lot of fun for me.
To have your friends, your real friends that you grew up with on Tour at your home to play and kind of show off your area, it's been fun for me over the years.

Q.  Curtis, did you ever get a sense for why given the rear view of 1990 or so, whether it really never caught on in terms of getting a lot of people out here?
CURTIS STRANGE: You mean spectators? 

Q.  Yeah.
CURTIS STRANGE: I think a lot had to do with the date, as hot as it was.  I mean, I can't  -- you know, it was awfully hot, and I think because of that  -- you know, we didn't have the best of fields there for some years because of our date right before the British open, and you'd have to ask Johnnie and the Tour on that, but I think everything kind of worked to where we were just a nice tournament.  The week before the British Open is always tough, but I was always disappointed that we didn't get the middle half of the field or the bottom half of the Tour field, but that was because of the heat.  It just didn't work for us for a number of years there, and the fall has been fantastic.  We've had good fields.  Every part of the year  -- not every part, but a lot of the parts of the year you go up against  -- it's almost confrontational between overseas events and say you're up against the British Open or up against the PGA or big tournaments, that type of thing, or maybe now Royal Golf Championship.  So dates are so important, but it's where you fit on the schedule.  Gosh, there's so many things involved, TV, you know, market size, which is a big part of it.  I just don't if we were ever going to get a premiere date because we were a small market here in Williamsburg.
But anyway, it's been very successful.  When you look at it from the point of view of the charities and the people we did help, it's been nice.  You know, some of the fields haven't been the best because of the weather and whatnot, but we certainly gave them our damndest and showed them our southern hospitality here.  Johnnie has done a good job with that and all the people with everything to offer with the gardens and everything, they run my boat out of gas during the week every year, so it's been fun.

Q.  Do you have a personal favorite moment from the tournament here?
CURTIS STRANGE: Well, they've all been nice.  I wish I could have played  -- I played well a number of years, I just never could kind of get over the hump and win.  I went head to head with Lanny one year, that was a big Sunday, both of us growing up here locally.  That was probably the highlight without winning, going head-to-head against him.  I guess, you know, finishing down the line, you don't remember too much of it.

Q.  Curtis, has anyone from the PGA spoken to you about the Tour U.S. captain?
CURTIS STRANGE: They have not.  Honest to goodness, I have not had anybody breathe anything about that to me.  I have no idea what they're doing.  As you know, in the past, the first time I knew anything was when they made the call to me.  Honestly, they keep it very secretive.  I had heard in the past they kind of ask around a little bit, but they didn't this time or they didn't ask me.

Q.  I mean, Sutton is being touted as the front-runner with Azinger and O'Meara mentioned, as well.  Can you address your thoughts about those three?
CURTIS STRANGE: Well, I think, to me Hal Sutton is the front-runner because of the age that they try to get them in before the SENIOR TOUR and after they're really competitive.  That's the wrong word.  I mean, Hal will still be competitive, but he will be 46 or 7 the next Ryder Cup.

Q.  I think he's 44 now.
CURTIS STRANGE: Which is the same age I was, and I would think he's the front-runner.  Azinger is 40  --

Q.  42.
CURTIS STRANGE: He's probably still too young.  I honestly don't think O'Meara would get it because of the controversy of the money issue.  He's the one that really started it.  He's been quoted as saying he didn't really care much for the Ryder Cup.  To be quite frank with you, I would be shocked if he ever got to be captain.

Q.  As a follow-up, what advice will you give the captain if he comes to you that you may not have thought to give him a week ago?
CURTIS STRANGE: You know, I was asked that Sunday night or Monday morning in the pressroom, and I really don't have much.  I guess do your homework, which everybody will, because they will pick a guy who will be qualified for the job, be ready for any scenario that could pop up during the week, and enjoy.  Go with your instincts.  That was the main theme that I was told talking to past captains, just kind of go with your instincts.  You know the players; you know how to play; you've been there, all those different kind of things, just go with your instincts.  That's pretty much it.  These guys were all qualified to be the captain.

Q.  Is it more of a letdown or a relief to be through?
CURTIS STRANGE: Oh, I think probably both.  I don't think relief.  I thoroughly enjoyed it.  I mean, it was more fun the last four or five weeks at home getting really ready.  We were going to do this this time, and we were really getting ready and attended to every detail every morning till noon.  That's what I did till noon is do that and then I got out of the house.  I can't tell you how great a week it was, and I've said to friends of mine that whatever my wildest dreams of how well the week could go, it was tenfold better.  Everything went perfect for the week.  The only thing that didn't work out was that we didn't bring back the cup.  That doesn't affect the job that I did and the job that Sarah did and the organization of the entire week.  You know, a letdown because it was such a big high we were on or I was on during the week, and you had to deal with all the details leading up to it.

Q.  Scott said the biggest bummer was not winning for you and for Sarah because of all the work.
CURTIS STRANGE: That's nice of him to say.  We go in there not knowing  -- you've never done it before so you don't know really quite what to expect.  You know what other captains have done for you.  You know what you would have wanted to do as a captain if you ever got that opportunity again.  Again, you go with your instincts, you go with your gut.  I'm still current enough with the guys, you know the guys, and they thoroughly enjoyed themselves, and that made it such a success for me is that they say they had a great week and they got along and they became a team and they left with a different perspective, and for all of their teammates and the Ryder Cup especially.  Sam and I got our message out three years ago.  You're never quite sure you do that until you get there during the week so it's nice of Scott and all the guys to say that, but I'm just happy they all had a good week.

Q.  A lot of people have speculated that means a lot more to the Europeans to win there than it would to the Americans.  Are you in that thinking   --
CURTIS STRANGE: I was asked that all week long, and I think it means a great deal for us to win.  I'm not going to say it means less for us to win.  But I think when they grow up in Europe, they think of the British Open and the Ryder Cup, and I only say that because I've heard two of three of them talk like this.  The British Open is their number one goal to win but also play on the Ryder Cup team.  We, in this country, there's a lot of different tournaments and the Ryder Cup over here has only become a huge ordeal since 1987.  It was always a big deal for the players, but when the fans and the public got involved it became even bigger.  It's only kind of a  -- it's really kind of a new baby over here, and we think of the Masters and the U.S. Open and the PGA now, THE PLAYERS -- because it is a big tournament,  -- and I don't think kids grow up thinking about the Ryder Cup.  They grow up thinking about the Masters and the U.S. Open.

Q.  Have you spent any time second-guessing anything you did?  Have you allowed yourself to do that?
CURTIS STRANGE: Uh-uh.

Q.  Apparently the first question you got in the interview room after it was over wasn't the most polite.
CURTIS STRANGE: So what else is new over there?  I know Dave was there  -- were you there? 

Q.  No.
CURTIS STRANGE: Well, you were there.  How about the one guy the one day? 

Q.  Oh, the guy about Tiger.
CURTIS STRANGE: Playing early.  Was that not the rudest thing?  Y'all would have been embarrassed for me.  I think most of the American media there for embarrassed for me and for themselves.

Q.  You're right.  I'm often embarrassed for you.  (Laughter)
CURTIS STRANGE: I'm serious.   This guy, I want to rip his throat out, but I didn't move.  He was something; wasn't he? 

Q.  Was it one of the tabloid guys?
CURTIS STRANGE: "Don't you think you had a moral obligation to the British fans to let them see the greatest player in the world?"  No, this is not an exhibition.  This guy came on and on and on.

Q.  Whatever the guy, I know the guy, I can't think of his name, it was like, look, in America if you want to watch Tiger play you have to get up early.
CURTIS STRANGE: Well, it was publicized that our tee time would be 9:00 o'clock.  Anyway, me second-guessing, no.  You know, when you do a team thing, and I don't care what y'all ask, when you do a team and route them out 1 through 12, you put your best player last figuring it's going to be close.  My guys weren't playing perfect golf, and so you put your strength last.  We put good players up front and we put good players at the end.  There's no other way to do it.

Q.  I'm sure there was the thinking, too, that if everyone knows he's last they're going to grind harder because they probably think it's a U.S. win.
CURTIS STRANGE: I don't think about that.  If you think in your gut it's going to be close, which I thought in my gut it was going to be close for a number of reasons, but you've got to be your strength there, simple as that.  I hate when people second-guess the early lineup.  I like at it as a direct insult to my top three players, not top three, first three players, and Scott Hoch who was playing as well as anybody over there that week other than Tiger was playing pretty well, Scott was making as many birdies as anybody, and David Toms is David Toms, and David was struggling a little bit but playing well.  When you look at those three guys then say I didn't have strength up front, I think you show your ignorance.  I don't mean to insult anybody in this room, but we did split with those three guys, so we were looking fine.

Q.  If you put Phil or Tiger out first they probably would have lost?
CURTIS STRANGE: Against Monty, yes.

Q.  And that would have hurt your team even more.
CURTIS STRANGE: Then the darts really would have come out.  You've got to look at it like this:  I feel so badly for the guys, but it's nothing they did other than they just didn't perform as well as you would expect on some rounds.  You know, we lost.  I have never made an excuse for losing in my life, and some of you have known me for a long time.  You don't play well, you don't win.  I don't care if it's high school baseball or basketball or golf.  I'm not going to make an excuse now.  We just didn't play well enough.  We weren't going to win.  I don't care how you line them up.  How you line them up doesn't make a hell of beans if you don't play well.  We were eight under par, they were 28 under par, as simple as that.  You can go and start splitting hairs with each match, but when you do that, still, nobody played well enough to win.

Q.  Let me ask you about the conditions.  Did you think that there should be a guideline for how a course is set up whether it's in Europe or in America?
CURTIS STRANGE: No, not at all.  The course was set  --

Q.  Why?
CURTIS STRANGE: Because that's just what I believe.  They're the host, they can do whatever they want to do.  I mean, Sam was in charge of the golf course.  I asked him point blank.  He said he set it up.  He came in eight times and he set it up to take away our strength, our strength off the tee, which relates to higher strength, and Jerry, this is not sour grapes at all.  You saw this all week long.  I never opened my mouth about it, but when you asked me the question do I think there ought to be a standard way of setting up a course, absolutely not.  They can do what they want to do and we can do what we want to do.

Q.  But in other forms of golf like the U.S. Open setting up or the PGA TOUR setting up these tournaments, I think there's some guidelines, so when you, as a player, show up there's certain things you know you want to get and certain things you won't get.
CURTIS STRANGE: Well, I have no comment.  I don't think  -- they can do what they want to do.  The best players still ought to win.  That's the way I look at it.  The first day we went out there and everybody says we can't hit drivers.  I said know what, you're still better players.  I believe you're still better players so let's forget about it.  Tiger Woods is still a better 5-iron player than anybody on the team as far as I'm concerned, so let's go play.  Let's put it in the fairway.  We know all of a sudden that we have to put it in the fairway to let's find a way to do that because I still think you can put it in the fairway more often than they can, but as it turned out that wasn't the case. 
I go in believing we're the best and what kind of captain would I be if I didn't believe that.  But we just didn't do that.  We didn't put it in the fairway as often as we should have.  We didn't make the putts we should have.
You know, I get from fans and stuff, oh, they made all the putts.  Hell, that's what they're aiming at.  They're not playing in front of a bigger hole.  We're putting to the same-sized hole.  I get tired of comments like that.

Q.  Scott said, Curtis, that the greens were slower Sunday than they were the first two days.  Were you aware of that or was that Scott's perception?
CURTIS STRANGE: I didn't hit many putts out there, zero for the week, so I don't know.  If they were slower, hit it harder.  I mean, again, it's just not brain surgery out there, I mean, seriously.

Q.  He said it threw him off.
CURTIS STRANGE: It did?  Well, Scott, he's a beauty.  (Laughter) He would have got his ass beat anyway.  Monty beat them all, so what difference did it make?  Monty was playing the same greens.  He's funny.  You know, Scott was great during the week, though, and he really  -- he's got a lot of guts and he can really play well until Sunday, and I don't know how well he played.  Monty played really well but I think Scott played decent, but he really played well in the team event.

Q.  Scott said he was perfect for that No. 1 spot because he's used to negative crowds because when he plays in the United States that's all he gets.
CURTIS STRANGE: Well, you're right, he was good in the No. 1 spot.  He was playing well, he likes to play fast, he was comfortable playing in the No. 1 spot.  Get out there and go, you know.

Q.  You had briefly mentioned David Toms.  Can you talk a little bit about his game and what chances he's got for a 3-peat here?
CURTIS STRANGE: He's got a good chance if he plays well.  It depends how he comes off last week.  If he comes off as a letdown he might not do as well, but if he comes off fired up  -- he's probably a little tired from the last two days, he's probably okay today, and if he gets off to a decent start, he's got a heck of a chance. 
Let me tell you something.  I've never seen him playing a whole lot on TV.  Working TV I've seen him hit some shots.  I honestly don't know whether I've ever seen him play or not.  I saw him hit a lot of shots.  Until you've seen someone play, let me tell you something, he is very, very good.  He can drive it in the tightest of fairways.  He has  -- and he's not afraid to do it because he did it on a lot of fairways  -- he drove it when everybody else was playing up with irons.  He's a wonderful putter and he's got a wonderful attitude.  He's going to be around for a long time.  He's got a classic swing that doesn't seem like it will ever go wrong.  I think he showed Phil Mickelson how to drive it.  I think he showed Phil that Phil is not as good a drive as he thinks he is.  Phil admitted it.

Q.  Did you see the tape of David sitting the ball off the cart path on Sunday?  It was unbelievable.
CURTIS STRANGE: Well, if that happens  -- you want to see that, this week, because there's a lot of rough this week, because that's what you do.  It's better than dropping it in the hay.  The course was set up okay.  I mean, they pinched some distance off the tee but it was in excellent shape.  It was in better shape than I thought it was going to be in.  The venue is fantastic but the golf course is okay.  It's an average golf course.

Q.  What do you think about the upcoming venue in two years?  I was just thinking on the way back  --
CURTIS STRANGE: Oakland Hills? 

Q.  Yeah, it would seem to me like the captain's picks would have to be long hitters?
CURTIS STRANGE: Not necessarily because I was just watching the amateur there, and of course they all bomb it, but who do you know  -- y'all already told me captain's picks.  Who knows who's going to be the captain's picks.  You pick the best players that you can find.  I don't think it's near as long a golf course as it used to play because of the guys hitting it farther, simple as that.

Q.  Given the mediocre record Europeans have in the U.S. Open would you suggest the course be set up like a U.S. Open?
CURTIS STRANGE: Well, that would be a thought.  I mean, that would be a thought, and you have to remember our captain next time will have his input to put on the golf course.  Obviously I didn't because it was over there.  So that would probably be a way to do it.  They have the choice.  How deep was the rough at Country Club?  I don't know what Ben did there?  It wasn't that deep, was it?  It didn't look like it was that deep at all.

Q.  It was pretty deep at Oak Hill, though, in '95.
CURTIS STRANGE: It was, yes.

Q.  I don't know if you're into rating things or if you separate golf things from other things in golf, but where does having been the captain rate in your career?
CURTIS STRANGE: I just spent the greatest week of my life, without a doubt.  It was the most fun and the most pressure and the most  -- well, pressure is one thing.  It wasn't pressure on me so much, it was just anxious, not being in control, just watching, but being with the guys and cunning  -- I went crazy.  They didn't see me too often and when they did I was always in the distance because I wasn't going to bother them unless they needed something.  It was just fantastic.  It was a great honor to do it.  You never know how the week is going to go until you get there.  Sarah and I worked for three years and it was worth it.  All the work that went in and preparation was worth it because it made it a good week for the players, and it was just everything.  The fans were fantastic.  All 24 players got along really, really well, and that helps a great deal, but they're good guys. 
I mean, it's become a huge event.  Y'all could answer it  -- I'm, sometimes, I think, too close to it.  Y'all can tell me how big an event it really has become.  I know a lot of people watched it.

Q.  425 million people watched that event last week.
CURTIS STRANGE: What were the ratings? 

Q.  Four.  It was down.  It was way down from Brookline.
CURTIS STRANGE: Is that all? 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Was that on Sunday?
CURTIS STRANGE: Early, yes.

Q.  As opposed to Brookline which was in the afternoon.  It was about the same as Valderrama, yes.
CURTIS STRANGE: But it was live on Sunday, though.  Sunday was only  --

Q.  It was taped, and that takes ratings down.
CURTIS STRANGE: Absolutely.

Q.  But Sunday was in the morning.  It was about the same as Valderrama.
CURTIS STRANGE: Well, I guess that shows it's consistent with Sunday morning.

Q.  Also people are going to turn off if we're losing.  That's a fact.
CURTIS STRANGE: We were never  -- in the Ryder Cup you're never losing or winning.

Q.  But the score is on the screen and it says Europe 13, U.S. 10, and a lot of people go:  Oh, geez, we're losing and turn it off.
CURTIS STRANGE: I don't agree with you.  You might get a few people that do that but I don't think it will move the ratings.

Q.  But it does affect people because people like to go in the Ryder Cup.
CURTIS STRANGE: I guess that's the crossover people that don't understand this Ryder Cup.

Q.  And those are the people that shoot ratings up because the core golf fans watch no matter what.
CURTIS STRANGE: Right.

Q.  Curtis, what do you do with your career now?
CURTIS STRANGE: You know, I've thought about it.  A lot of effort, a lot of time went into this.

Q.  You've spent more time as a captain than anyone, haven't you?
CURTIS STRANGE: That's what they tell me.  I'm going to play a couple events toward the end of the year.  You know, we get busy again with ABC, and then I'm exempt next year so I'm going to play some; how much, I don't know, but I'm going to play some, and just kind of do what I've been doing.

Q.  SENIOR TOUR in front of you?
CURTIS STRANGE: If they get rid of carts it would interest me.  I'd play a little bit but it doesn't interest me too much with carts.  I've told my feelings to them.  Everybody has got their opinion, nobody really cares, but  -- yes, sure, it interests me.  I'm going to play.  Absolutely I'm going to play some.

Q.  In a cart?
CURTIS STRANGE: Well, you know, when you look at it with some of the problems the SENIOR TOUR has now, again, I'm not close enough, but I look at it more as a fan and somebody who does have a vested interest because in two and a half years I'll be out there, and I've done enough events for ABC on the SENIOR TOUR.  I guess I'll make half the guys mad, but that's the way  -- as we have gone to court over this, golf is not only hitting golf shots but being able to walk 18 holes and being in some kind of physical shape, and if you can't do that anymore, that's when you kind of go do something else.  If I can jump in a cart and play and jump back in a cart and play, it just doesn't  -- it doesn't look right for me.  It doesn't look right.  When I see the TV, it looks like a member-guest outing.  Carts are going every which way.  Guys are steaming off in carts and guys are still putting out on the last green.  You see it all the time out there.  I'm serious, I think it would improve a bunch if they got rid of the carts.

Q.  Palmer has always suggested they drive carts during the ProAm and then Friday, Saturday, Sunday  --
CURTIS STRANGE: I know he's an advocate for that.

Q.  I'm not sure in the Casey Martin's decision you could make a change like that.
CURTIS STRANGE: You mean take the carts away?

Q.  I don't know about all of that.
CURTIS STRANGE: I don't, either, but I was wondering.

Q.  Well, if someone is legally disabled they would be able to get a cart.  Casey Martin is legally disabled.
CURTIS STRANGE: I think we can do whatever we want to do.  It's a matter of passing it through the board.  You know how that goes.

Q.  You probably just ticked off more people in five minutes than in three years with the Ryder Cup?
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  A couple more questions.
Q.  After September 11th your main goal was to get the Ryder Cup back to where it should be and get golf revered by people the way it should be.
CURTIS STRANGE: We did that three years ago.  Sam and I talked about that the first time we talked on the phone three years ago.  It wasn't after September 11th.  You know, we talked and talked, and the press wrote about friendship that we have, and you don't come out and just say that.  We kind of just did our thing, and I think it did filter down somewhat through the players, although they didn't need a lot of help because they already get along, and it filtered through the press and got to the public, and I think we did okay with that, I really do.  I only say that because we're just talking to people the last two days.  Over there that week, how well everybody did behave -- Sam did a good job over there and I tried my best over here, and I think we did all right.

Q.  It wasn't the controversy of two years ago or three years ago with the fans.  Do you think it'll go back to a more respectful crowd when it comes back to the States.
CURTIS STRANGE: Well, I certainly hope so but I think whoever is the next captain has to continue on in that  -- whatever I'm trying to say   -- has to continue what Sam and I tried to do, I mean, talk about it and explain civility and sportsmanship and etiquette.  That's the way we're brought up in this game, not only brought up in this game, brought up, period, so I think if they stress that I hope it'll get to the fans in two years over here.  I certainly hope so because it was wonderful.  It was hard-fought, which it's supposed to be, and a lot of people said that's not going to be worth a damn because everyone liked each other.  I think it was pretty hard-fought.  Y'all saw more shots than I did because I was all over the golf course, but what I did see and the reaction from the fans and reaction from the players, it went really well.

Q.  They only showed you on TV when it looked like you were worried.
CURTIS STRANGE: Is that right?  That could have been anytime. 

Q.  Is it fair to say that Sunday's singles matches are so craftedly contrived in the Ryder Cup that it's almost like throwing 24 guys into the final match of a group on the final Sunday?  How much pressure is there playing a singles match on Sunday that day?
CURTIS STRANGE: I put my 12 guys up, they put their 12 guys up and you play head-to-head.  I mean, there's pressure, and there's pressure when you're at the end of the field and you see not enough of your color on the board, in our case the red, and if they don't see enough blue up there.  That's one other reason you have to have some meat at the end.  You know, it's the all day long pressure.  In Davis' and Phil's and Tiger's case when they went to the first tee they saw a lot of blue, but they had to be able to handle that and go out and perform and win their matches because everything  -- you know, I'm not going to get bark and start critiquing individual matches, but the first thing, first and foremost they were told be me on the first tee is you take care of your own business.  Don't worry about anything else.  You have one job to do today.  Don't look at that board too much because there's nothing you can do about that.  They all say, yeah, but it doesn't work like that.  All you see is blue.  That's part of the pressure of playing at the end of the field and pressure starting in the field of getting red on the board for your team.  There's a lot going on.  You're playing for your teammates, for your country, and you know there's a lot of people watching this thing, and you know if you don't perform then people will speculate on this, that and the other, so it's a lot of  -- everything boils down to, you know, you better be able to handle a lot of nerves on Sunday, I think more so  -- I personally think it's so different than a final round of a major championship.  There's pressure but it's different pressure.  The final round of a majors pressure, if you don't do well, well, there will be another day.  But in the Ryder Cup there might not be another Ryder Cup for you, depends on who you are.  If you don't do well in a Ryder Cup you will feel as though you have let other people down, your teammates as well as a lot of fans, that really care about you or your team.  In a major championship, they don't really care, period.  They just want to see a good tournament.

Q.   Do you think that the Ryder Cup for the people involved, the people that play, it's more like 12 on 12 or United States versus Europe?
CURTIS STRANGE: United States versus Europe.

Q.  Really?
CURTIS STRANGE: Oh, yeah.  That's why it's fun.  That's why everybody watches it.  It's them versus us, head-to-head, there's a winner and loser in every match and there's a winner and loser on Sunday afternoon.  That's why I like to watch it.  It's us and them, and nothing negative or derogatory about it, it's just the way it is.  They certainly want to beat us and we would certainly like to beat them.

Q.  Scott said expectation-wise it's almost like the U.S. basketball team at this point where we're expected to win.  If we don't win it's an upset.
CURTIS STRANGE: Well, on paper it looks like that, and I only say that because, look, it's stroke play events.  I'm not saying anything that's not proven every week in big tournaments.  Look at Ireland the week before, look at the Open, all of it.  But when you get head-to-head in 18 holes of match play and you've heard it a million times and you're sick of it, but it's the truth, anybody can beat anybody if they get fired up because you don't have to sustain solid play for 72 holes.  It's only a few holes, you know, 18 max, and so  -- and people can do that.  Price beating Phil Mickelson, who would have thought?  But all you can do is applaud him because he'll never forget it.  As badly as I felt for Phil and as badly as I felt for the team at that point, I couldn't help but think for Phil, Price, either, how he'll never forget this moment the rest of his life, seriously.  When Zinger put it in there a foot on Friday when they were dead even  -- no, they were one hole, all of a sudden Zinger on the last hole, like this, with Tiger, and Bjorn hit it 25 feet and Price hit it five feet, boom, bottom.  You've got to applaud him.  Anybody that's played any kind of athletics like to see people perform at top level.  You have to applaud because it's neat stuff.  Zinger did what he had to do and Bjorn did what he had to do.  It was neat stuff.

Q.  Is that an attitude you've developed in the two or three days since then?  I'm sure there's disappointment.
CURTIS STRANGE: No, absolutely not.  I've always had the attitude.  You always hate to lose.  If I shot 65 and Lanny shot 64 out here that Sunday, there's nothing I can do about it.  I can't hit him from behind.  All you can do is applaud him.  You hate it but you can't do anything about it   - not so much in stroke play but in match play I'm like that, in something like the Ryder Cup.  I don't care if it's a football game or a basketball game, hey, it's good stuff.

Q.  In your opinion did Tiger enjoy last week?
CURTIS STRANGE: Yes, absolutely.  I talked to him last night.  Yes, he did.  You know, they all said it was very, very  -- it was a good week.  You know, The Belfry lent itself to that being such a nice facility.  Our rooms were right above our hangout area and the locker room was out the door of our hangout area, it was all right there.  The Belfry is a big place, but the Europeans were over there in their little thing, and it was easy and simple.  It was very well done, so he had a ball, yes.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Curtis, for joining us.  We appreciate it. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT