THE RYDER CUP  MATCHES
September 25, 2002
Curtis Strange
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







GORDON SIMPSON:  We have Curtis Strange, the U.S. captain with us now.  Curtis, I take it you can sense things are getting closer, with the photo calls this morning.  You have two practice rounds.  Just give us the general demeanor in the camp at the moment. 
CURTIS STRANGE:  Well, I'm certainly getting anxious.  You said it right, it's getting closer.  This early in the week, this is what Sam and I waited three years for.  The week of the event and the actual competition.  I've seen them play now for a day and a half.  And everybody is playing well, it seems like.  Everybody is in good mood, good spirits.  They're ready to go, too. 
GORDON SIMPSON:  How does the build-up differ from this side of the fence as opposed to being a player this week.
CURTIS STRANGE:  I feel like, in some way I feel in less control, because I'm not a player.  The guys are out there preparing for the matches like they do every day, for every tournament.  I'm doing something that I've never done before, so I'm a little bit new at this and it's interesting.  It's a lot of fun. 
I have to admit, the guys are great fun.  Last night, the night before, and during the day.  They are relaxed, they're having a lot of fun, and that is what part of my responsibility is again to have them have a wonderful week.  And not so much play well, and win, but experience the entire week and have fun with each other and get to know each other better than they have.  And so far, so good.  It's been so far perfect, it really has.

Q.  Curtis, does it extend to Tiger, who expressed his reservations earlier in the week, last week, about all the things that have to be done?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Meaning? 

Q.  He had reservations about all the dinners and whatnot?
CURTIS STRANGE:  There's only two dinners.  We act like there's something every night.  There's only a dinner last night and a dinner tonight.  And everybody thoroughly enjoyed themselves last night, everyone; the two teams together, and the officials parties.  He's fine.  I think he's rearing to go.

Q.  Two quick questions:    As a captain, Tom Watson eight years ago or nine years ago here sought out people like Roy Williams at Kansas just to talk about how you mold a team.  Did you do any of that yourself along the way to figure out how to get 12 individual guys to come together as a team?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Not really, not really.  I talked to -- it's no big thing, but I talked to one guy, which was interesting; he wasn't a golfer.  But, no, to me it's more or less if they respect what you're doing and trying to do, and be yourself, be honest with them and do what you think is right.  I did this five times.  I knew what I liked and what I didn't like.  I knew that I wanted structure.  I know I wanted this.  I wanted to be told -- whatever it might be, I took that.  And I've done that.  It's my personality coming out and it's the way I like -- would like to be treated as a player.  There's a way -- or arranging things this week.  And so far everybody has enjoyed it.  Everybody wants -- so far so good.  The guy I talked to was Dave Odum.  I said, "Dave, how do you get 12 individuals together?"  And he was pretty interesting, because he doesn't play golf.  But he came from a different perspective.  And that's really it.  I had no interest in really going, searching out guys like that, I really didn't.

Q.  Davis came in yesterday and talked about an emphasis you're putting on really being ready for Friday morning.  Could you give us just a synopsis of what you told your team in that meeting when some people said you were kind of fired up about it?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Well, I'm glad I got my point across, to start with.  I'm glad Davis mentioned it; that means I hit home.  I think first of all it's important to be ready for every match.  It's a long week, and we have to be ready for every match; any slip and it could be costly.  But I feel very strongly that Friday morning is important to get off to a good start, to get the guys confident, to give them some momentum.  Because as we've seen in the past, momentum can shift very quickly in the Ryder Cup matches.  I think it's important for my guys to get going well.  Especially when you look more technical at it, being best ball Friday morning is important.  Sam picked that, and I don't know the reason he did it.  I have my opinions, but he did that and he picked best ball, foursomes -- fourball, foursomes; foursomes, fourball.  He did it for a reason, and the only reason he would do that is he likes that, for whatever reason.  So it's important for me to go out and as a punch-counterpunch, to snuff him out in his way that he thinks is best for his team.  If we go out and do well early Friday morning, then we'll be all right; not being all right just Friday morning, but we're off to a good start.

Q.  Phil Mickelson has an incredible record in this event.  Can you explain why he's such a great match play golfer, and what he brings to this team?
CURTIS STRANGE:  It's very easy, he makes a lot of birdies.  You have to make, in 18 holes of match play, you don't have time to dillydally out there.  You have to go out there and make birdies.  And he does that.  He's the most exciting player -- he's one of two most exciting players in the game.  And what does he bring to the team?  He brings that confidence.  He brings that air about him.  He brings that ability. 

Q.  Under normal circumstances in this event there's a lot of natural motivation that goes into it, because you've got all the points and you've got the captains picks, and there's a month-long anticipatory process.  How are you trying to recapture that anticipation and build-up, since you haven't had that?
CURTIS STRANGE:  A lot has been written over the last number of months how it has been slower and quieter, and it has because we didn't have the qualifying and we didn't have the picks.  But it never left the players.  It was always in the back of their mind.  So for the players, themselves, it's not an issue.  As it got closer, they got more excited.  And it's a natural build-up.  You have to -- you have to just remember that this has always been -- it's a huge deal for these players.  It's a big player.  You're playing for a lot of pride, you're playing for your country.  And it's fun.  Yes, it was quieter through I think a little bit -- I don't know about the public, but just through the press, and not as much to write about it.  But players -- and especially for the younger guys, it didn't leave their mind too much.

Q.  Sam said he's already seen some things this week from his players, where he's altered some of his pairings from what he's seen.  Have you done that at all, where you've adjusted any of your thoughts from watching guys play the last couple of days?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Not from their play.  But I have adjusted, yes.

Q.  What would you --?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Don't even ask me the follow-up, no. 

Q.  Not who --?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Don't even waste your breath.

Q.  Did you base it on chemistry?
CURTIS STRANGE:  It's based on chemistry.  It's based on a few opinions from the players, not everyone, because I'm not in there to ask.  Everybody has got an opinion.  It's my call, but I would be crazy not to use them as my best resource.  But it's not so much on play.  It's not play.  Everybody is doing okay.  I just have adjust a little bit.

Q.  Second thing is for --?
CURTIS STRANGE:  I'd be crazy not to, to be flexible enough to get to the week to adjust and make the team better.

Q.  It's kind of the same thing, but for Saturday, how much in your mind now do you know what the match is, what you want to do and how much is going to depend strictly on what happens Friday and what the guys performances are?
CURTIS STRANGE:  It depends on what happens Friday or -- what happens on Saturday, yes.  Mostly.

Q.  You have Tiger and Zinger paired today, and should that happen to materialize over the next two days, what is it that you like about those two together?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Well, I've got to remember -- hold on, I have my pairings, here.  I have Tiger and Zinger and Calc and Hoch.  So don't point toward one and not the other two. 

Q.  I just said --?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Does that really get you thinking now. 

Q.  My only question is if it should materialize, what do you like about that?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Well, Tiger Woods can play with anybody.  A lot of people would like to play with him.  With Zinger I like that he's a competitive son-of-a-gun.  And if it has to get done, Paul Azinger is one of the guys you'd like on the line, as simple as that.
Now, there's two other guys in the group now. 

Q.  Should that materialize?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Should Hoch materialize?  He's playing really well.  He'll make a lot of guys look good.  And Calc, Calc and Tiger are very comfortable with each other, played a lot of practice rounds, know each other well.

Q.  Curtis, I know he's not one of your players, but can you give us an opinion of Bernhard Langer playing in his 10th Ryder Cup, and how special you think he is?
CURTIS STRANGE:  His longevity has been great.  To do this ten times, of the standard that needs to be to make a Ryder Cup team  -- who is the most, Faldo with 11  -- that's incredible, too.

Q.  Christy O'Connor, Senior, also?
CURTIS STRANGE:  He's been a wonderful player, you know that.  It's impressive that he stayed enthusiastic and energetic and love for the game as long as that.  I can relate to that.  He's just been great.  And he brings a lot to the team.  Anybody that's respected as much as Bernhard brings a lot to your team.

Q.  Are you concerned about the state of the game back home in the USA, grass roots level after a reported drop in funding of corporate sponsorship, revenues from that stream?
CURTIS STRANGE:  You have to ask that again, I don't know where you're coming from as far as --.

Q.  A reported drop in marketing sponsorship in tournaments in general in the USA.  Is that impacting --?
CURTIS STRANGE:  You know, my energies have been toward the Ryder Cup for a while now.  I don't know about all that stuff.  I do, but it doesn't mean anything this week. 

Q.  Do you know why Paul Azinger was late on the first tee before he became Scott Hoch's partner today?
CURTIS STRANGE:  No.

Q.  He did become Scott's partner rather than Tiger's?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Tiger is the second nine.  No, I don't.  He might have had an emergency, I don't know (laughter.)

Q.  Sam was telling us he had a practical joke played on him yesterday by one of the team members; has anything like that happened to you?
CURTIS STRANGE:  No.  You know how these guys are when they get together.  So there's a lot going on. 

Q.  How different are the practice rounds this week, compared to normal stroke-play event?  Do you practice alternate shots; do you practice using other golf balls?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Today was the only mandatory 18 holes they had to play, and it was to be alternate shot today.  A serious alternate shot.  They're hitting a few second balls.  I wanted straight alternate shot, no practice putting, which they cannot do in the matches.  No second balls.  Play alternate shot.  Try to get a feel for what you're going to have to do in the matches.  And that is very important to me.  Practice rounds are very important to me, but I adjusted with the team -- I'll tell you, I adjusted with the team Sunday night because I was always adamant that they were going to play two and a half days of golf, resting a lot on Thursday, adamant about who they're going to be paired with, adamant that they play and practice hard, because remember, we have to get ready for Friday morning. 
But I adjusted because Sunday night -- we were here Monday afternoon.  Everybody on the team played a competitive tournament the week before.  We were here, ten of us strong, without jet lag.  And it's such a long week, so I said, "Guys, you're professionals, I trust you, you prepare like you would for a major."  Today was the only mandatory 18 holes.  They could have played 9 yesterday, they could play 9 or none tomorrow.  They all played 18 yesterday, which makes me feel good.  But they're playing because they're having fun.  But I adjusted with them, because it's a long week.  And it doesn't start until Friday.  So that's pretty much what they're doing right now.  But today, again, was the only mandatory 18 holes.

Q.  If you addressed this yesterday, I apologize, but do you see the 10th tee staying where it is, or do you think Sam is playing the odd mind game with you?
CURTIS STRANGE:  All I can tell you is I was just reassured a few minutes ago from John Paramor that the tee will be back every match.  And my only question is that my team has to prepare.  So if the tees go up one day and they haven't practiced there, then something is not right.  But I have been promised, and guaranteed that they will be back every day.

Q.  Because you did have one of the groups playing --?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Yeah, that was an hour ago.  And today is a bad one anyway, it didn't work out.  If the wind turned favorable for the tee shot, and it was up, I wanted my guys to have done that, that was only fair.

Q.  Paul Azinger was in yesterday and said when he played in '89 or '91, it was a whole different scene, no World Golf Championships.  You experienced the same thing.  Now they all know each other, Tiger calls them all by nicknames.  Do you long for when they didn't know each other, and did that -- was that easier, or is it harder because they know each other so well?
CURTIS STRANGE:  No, no.  I don't think it's going to be hard at all as we've all said, once in a while we have to throttle back a bit.  And I think it's going to be a wonderful match.  I think they're going to play their asses off.  They're going to beat each others brains out.  And anything less would be unfair to you, the fans, me and themselves.  So they won't have any trouble going out and playing hard.  I don't care if they're playing against somebody they know really well.  Actually when I played back in '89, I played enough overseas, I knew a lot of the guys.  But it doesn't make any difference.  They're going to be ready to go.

Q.  Nothing has really been said this week about 9/11.  Do you talk about that among each other?  And have you talked about the spirit of the American team, the underlying pride being greater because of 9/11?
CURTIS STRANGE:  We discussed it the other day in the pressroom, and when you talk about it and remember it, you want to do it the proper way.  And we have 2001 on our hats.  We have it on our bags.  We have it -- it's not on this shirt, but it's around.  That was never changed.  We have the flag on our hats.  We have a couple of wonderful posters in the team rooms.  It's around.  I don't think it's anything that will be seriously discussed in the team room because we lived through it.  Think about it, do you all sit in this room talking about it, maybe once in a while, but it will be, in my words, tomorrow afternoon at the opening ceremony.  But I think just the idea that everybody knows why we're a year late.  There's no hiding that, and that's enough.

Q.  Curtis, this is a slightly -- I don't recall what the right word is, difficult time in the sense that you're primed for battle, but the battle is two days away.  How difficult is it, this Monday to Friday?
CURTIS STRANGE:  It's only going to get better. 

Q.  Do you feel completely at home in this period that we're going through now?
CURTIS STRANGE:  You mean today? 

Q.  Today and yesterday and tomorrow?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Well, as I said it's a long week, so that's why we're trying to plan a schedule, we're trying to let them do what they think is right.  I can't tell players what to do, because first of all I'm not there playing.  And I can't -- everybody is different.  Everybody prepares in different ways.  And that's why I gave them a little leeway.  Yes, you're right, they're all ready to go today.  And we have to wait tomorrow.  But that's why they probably won't do much tomorrow.  But that's all part of the psyche and the preparation of a player, an athlete is how to build-up, how to play yesterday, today, tomorrow and how to be at your top form on Friday, Saturday and Sunday.

Q.  Have you found you've enjoyed that, or are enjoying that?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Me as a captain or a player.

Q.  You as the captain?
CURTIS STRANGE:  I'm ready to go today.  But I don't have to prepare my game to be peaking Friday and Saturday.  So I'm ready to go.  Things are done.  We're ready to go.  Sam and I have been ready to go.  But it's tougher sitting on the sidelines, you get anxious.

Q.  Phil Mickelson has a great Ryder Cup record.  Do you feel when he comes to the Ryder Cup he grows as a player in his demeanor?  Week-in, week-out, there's -- here he has a superior record.  Do you actually notice that he grows as a player during the Ryder Cup week?
CURTIS STRANGE:  All I notice is that Phil loves match play.  He loves to compete.  He knows he's good at it.  He knows he makes a lot of birdies.  And he thoroughly enjoys it, he really does.  That's all I can say.  But he loves it.

Q.  We were talking earlier about Tiger and Calc being good friends, and enjoying playing in teams together.  What is more important, pairing two guys who are good friends and would be more compatible, or pairing two guys whose games might fit better?
CURTIS STRANGE:  The most important thing is games.  I'm not too concerned with personalities.  If they happen to -- first of all, all the guys get along.  But in Calc's case, what I was trying to talk about, is that Calc plays a lot of practice rounds with Tiger.  So he does get along.  They know each other.  They know each others games.  That's what I meant by that.  Tiger gets along with everybody.  He's a ball.  He wants to have fun.  But games, more so than anything else, yes.

Q.  A few players displayed more hurts after defeat in the Ryder Cup than you, a couple of times.  You obviously felt them deeply.  How much does the memory of those defeats live with you now --?
CURTIS STRANGE:  What defeats are you talking about? 

Q.  Against Faldo. 
CURTIS STRANGE:  Right.  Thanks for bringing all that up, that's great (laughter.)

Q.  How much do they live with you now?  How much do they serve as some kind of reminder on a personal level of exactly what is at stake?
CURTIS STRANGE:  I think you draw from your experience.  And I think that my Ryder Cup record isn't very good, because I didn't make enough birdies.  And I think that that's maybe why I'm coming in here thoroughly preparing myself.  I'm doing everything I can possibly do, every scenario that can come up, I think I'm ready for, I think, I hope.  But I've done my homework, and that's why getting the players prepared is part of, hey, you're getting prepared.  Don't ever have any regrets.  If you lose a match, at least -- just be able to promise yourself that I'm going to do everything to prepare for a match.  If I lose, there's nothing I can do about it, I got beat.

Q.  Can you tell me what Scott Hoch brings it the team, and what kind of character he is?
CURTIS STRANGE:  He brings a hell of a golf game, an underrated golf game.  His record speaks for itself.  He says he doesn't get enough credit in the states.  And maybe possibly, maybe some of that's possibly true.  But he brings to the team something that I love, is that he brings -- he can play both ways.  He can play best ball and foursomes, very easily. And so that gives me the option to use him a lot of different ways.

Q.  What kind of character is he as a person?
CURTIS STRANGE:  He's a lot of fun.  He's a lot of fun.  He's been around a long time.  He has a lot of experience.

Q.  The guys on the European Tour tend to hang out a bit more together off the course.  Are you pleased the way --?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Do you know that for a fact? 

Q.  They appear to. 
CURTIS STRANGE:  They appear to.  Okay. 

Q.  On the basis of that, are you then happy with the way that your guys seem to have gelled off the course?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Yes, they're doing great.  They're having a ball.  As captain, so far, so good.  As captain what I have seen Sunday night the dinner, and then Monday during the cook out and hanging out, and then last night after dinner, I couldn't have dreamt of anything more fun, really.  And having guys, looking at guys having fun and enjoying each others company, the wives enjoying each others company, so far, so good.  Yeah, they get along well.

Q.  I just want to take you back briefly to the 10th tee.  Sam said just a few minutes earlier that if the players wanted it moved forward, the European players, he would consider moving it forward.  How would you feel about that?  Would you feel you hadn't had the chance to practice then; would that be a bit of gamesmanship?
CURTIS STRANGE:  As I said, all I can tell you, I was guaranteed it would not go forward.

Q.  Sam told us a few minutes earlier that --?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Then when I leave here, I will go to the rules office and find out.  Because my guys have to have a chance to prepare.  Do you not think that's only fair? 

Q.  Yes.  He said he had no plans to move it unless he was specifically asked by the players.  He said, "I don't think that will happen." 
CURTIS STRANGE:  They have to prepare, it sounds like, then.

Q.  Are you a hundred percent sure in your own mind of the pairings for Friday morning?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Does it make a difference?  It was pretty much made up earlier in the week, but I am adjusting as we go.  To answer your question, 98 percent. 

Q.  I was curious, have you felt any need to speak with Calc or have any concerns about, not only his game or his psyche or you feel he's okay?
CURTIS STRANGE:  I haven't talked to him about it, but I did approach him yesterday before he came in here, to let him know, you're going to know that it's going to come up.  He says I'm fine, I'm fine.  And that's part of, again, my responsibility this week, is to keep everybody aware what's going to happen.  And it was a long time ago.  And anybody that has ever played this game, I stepped on my own rear end in '95.  It happens.  There's nothing you can do about it.  That's the game, and if you think you're good enough -- I said many times -- if you think you're good enough to be the best in this game, you better be prepared to suck it up when it doesn't go well.  Calc had one of those cases and times, and it's tough to get over.  It is for a player.  And I'm sure it took him a few days, weeks, months.  But he's okay right now, I can honestly say that. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT