JOHNNIE WALKER WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
December 19, 1993
Curtis Strange
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  I played well.  I played about the same way I have been playing all week long.  I just made some good putts and got a feel for the greens today.  The course isn't playing too difficult.  No wind at all, very little wind out there.  In my case, I just got more of a feel for the golf course and the greens.  Well, I played well, happy with the finish. 
 

Q.   Any saves at all?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  No. 
 

Q.   Is this number that Mize is shooting kind of unbelievable?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  He has probably just got a real good feel for the greens.  The course hadn't played real difficult this week.  Not a whole lot of wind.  To me, what makes the course kind of tricky is there is an awkward tee shot.  Obviously a lot of rough.  When the wind blows, it is tough sometimes to get in the fairway, but this week, Larry -- obviously, he has done a whole lot better than the rest of us, but he is - I think he has just probably made some good putts; played it really well.  He is playing-- great playing, it really is, gosh.  Gets you well in a hurry winning down here. 
 

Q.   Does it get you-- help you get well as far as another good week, another good tournament?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  Yeah, I played good.  I feel good.  I am playing the way I seem to want to play.  I am making some good putts.  I feel good about myself and my game, and I am pretty confident.  So right now I am doing pretty well. 
 

Q.   I know when Freddie won down here he said it really gave him a boost going into the next year?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  Every win does.  Every win, I don't care if it is the end of the year or middle of the year, every win kind of gives you a boost, you know, full of confidence and to go ahead, and for a week or two or two months, whatever it might be, to play well.  Who knows how long?  We know it doesn't last forever, so -- 
 

Q.   What is your west coast schedule?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  Right now it is Tucson and Phoenix for sure and then after that I am not quite sure.  I am not going to Hawaii the first week.  I didn't get-- I haven't gotten my invitation to the TPC yet.  I am still waiting.  Maybe a Christmas card -- 
 

Q.   It is in the mail?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  That is right. 
 

Q.   Then all through Florida; is that right?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  Yeah, probably skip the TPC.  No, I will play.  Yeah, all through Florida I will play the four weeks I always do; then I start you know, I will play the same schedule I normally play -- no Greensboro. 
 

Q.   Did you play as well this week as you did in Australia?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  No, but I played pretty good.  I didn't play as well, but I scored pretty decent and I played all right.  I really did.  I played real well the last couple of days and scored well.  I still hit bad shots; I hit toe shots, but I am pretty happy with it.  I am-- I am not, you know, jumping up and down spitting wooden nickels, but I am pretty happy with what I am doing. 
 

Q.   Is your game essentially the same as it was in style?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  Yeah, I guess without saying it-- that is what I mean.  It is the same.  I mean, when I look back in a the way I used to play, it wasn't pretty a lot of  ways, but there was a lot of snorting and sweating and bitching and everything else on the golf course.  I got it in the hole.  It is the truth.  I was full of blood, sweat and tears when I finish that round when I used to.  That is kind of what I am doing now.  There were some good rounds, a lot of good shots, but I guess we are so critical.  That is the way I look at it. Somebody from the outside may look entirely different at it.  How do you write bitching?  How do you put bitching on that thing? 
 

End of FastScripts....
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT