JOHNNIE WALKER WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
December 17, 1993
Curtis Strange
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Harder golf course today?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  Little bit.  Just-- it is not real hard, but yeah, it is blowing enough -- 15 is tough over there on the water.  I am trying to think -- actually, some of the long holes played easier today because the wind helps you out, but it is not knocking you down, no. 
 

Q.   Been playing good for some time now?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  Yeah, I have.  Yesterday I played terrible, but didn't play very good the first four, five holes. Played really well after that.  Every day is different.  But now that I am playing good, I get to take four, five weeks off. 
 

Q.   Do you have trouble putting on Bermuda?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  I grew up on the stuff.  We don't putt enough of it now to ever really get used to it, because everybody down in your area - it has been everywhere now.  I think there are pros and cons for that, but we -- I don't know think-- I think growing up on it, you learn to deal with it and realize you are not going to make everything; but, on the other hand, you can make a lot of putts with it.  Al Geiberger shot 59 at Memphis not only was 59 incredible, 72 par, of all courses I would pick him not to shoot 59 on Memphis; it would be the top 3 of 5 not to because of Bermuda grass greens but he made everything.  Plus it is a long golf course, but just got to trust your read to know what the grain is going to do and how to read the grain. 
 

Q.   Looking back, Larry's story talked about how much winning down there meant, further thoughts on that, to win again after a couple of years?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  Yeah, it is fun.  I haven't seen Larry's story.  I was a little bit scared to. 
 

Q.   Think about winning it again?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  Honestly, I never thought of it like that.  I think you wonder sometimes when the next time is going to be, but if you keep plugging along, you always get a chance somewhere along the way.  I don't care how you are playing, somewhere along the way, you make a bunch of putts and you have an opportunity to win.  It is like Jerry as we know him.  He said, "hey, you have been playing better or did you just get lucky down there." There is sense to that.  That is being Jerry, but I wanted to hit him up side the head.  But seriously, that is-- you can get luck in a week and make everything.  Yeah, it is fun to answer your question, I enjoyed it. 
 

Q.   Put a little spark back into the whole thing for you?
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  Yeah, it does because you-- I said to somebody the other day, I said, you know, the greyhound got to catch that rabbit every once in awhile to keep chasing it and I think that it is the best I can say right there.  If you do it once in awhile the enthusiasm stays up and you kind of get your fires going again and that certainly happened there.  Not that -- you know, I plugged right along.  I did some good things once in awhile, very once in awhile, but it is nothing like winning, you know. 
 

End of FastScripts....
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT