SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2006
Curtis Strange
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CURTIS STRANGE:  The next three days are going to be a little different.  You know, blowing and 15 to 30 winds and that type thing.  Like it was on Tuesday.  So if you're going to get ahead of the field and if you're going to win the golf tournament, you have to shoot a decent round today.  It's going to be hard to come back the next three days.
Q.  Can you comment more about how Jay's playing, since you've been splitting time between TV and golf?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Who, me?  I haven't done that in two and a half years TV.  I've been playing solid for two years.
Q.  Just getting back in the swing of things
CURTIS STRANGE:  Oh, that's way long gone.  I've been in the swing of things, I just haven't played very well.  And Jay's just playing so well, it's always nice to play with somebody who is swinging well, he's so confident in the way he prepares for this event.  I'm worried about swing mechanics and things like that, and he's worrying about how he's going to play certain holes and really practicing on the golf course.  Which is what you should do.  So it's just nice to    it kind of hopefully rubs off.  But who knows, we'll find out.  But it's nice to hang around somebody who was playing so well.
Q.  He was in the media room talking about how earlier Tuesday how you and Mark Johnson and he couldn't name the fourth person in your group?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Tom McKnight.
Q.  He said you were out there playing, couldn't get anything going to the.  Is it just, what's, you know, what does it take around Oak Tree?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Well, it was also blowing 30 miles an hour on Tuesday.  We were out there just looking at the golf course.  And you have to play a practice round in those conditions or you would like to, because you know it's going to blow some time this week.

So you know what to expect and where to hit it on certain holes.  I mean today we actually were not quite sure where to hit a couple shots because it was so calm on certain holes.  But it just kind of was relaxed and go play a practice round.  We have done this a long time.
Q.  Jay was talking about your competitiveness and ever since you exhaled in 1990, the three peat was done on all that, just maybe you haven't inhaled or when was the last time you felt this good after around?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Well, I shot a lot of good rounds.  You know, after that I had a chance to win four or five times and I played a number of    you know, I played through probably '98 or so full time and then I did the TV and didn't play that much.  But the last year and a half I shot a lot of good scores, I just haven't put very much together, but better some good scores than not.  And just hopefully that I can shoot some good scores, put them back to back and then get some confidence.  You just got to believe in yourself out there.  And you can see the difference in Jay.  I mean I see it so much in Jay.  He's the flip side of the coin right now.  And the way he goes about it, as I just said, his practice rounds and the way he goes about life right now.  I mean he's not worried about playing well the next day.  Where I'm hoping to find something.  So hopefully it turns, hopefully it will get better, if it doesn't, I'll keep working at it.
Q.  He thinks you beat yourself up sometimes too much.
CURTIS STRANGE:  He does?
Q.  Yeah.
CURTIS STRANGE:  Well, that's your personality.  I mean I guess you could say that about me since forever.  I've always thought that that kind of got me to where I was.  Wherever that was.  I thought that was what got me to a certain point and got the maximum out of my game.

Did it ever hurt me?  Probably.  But did it help me, yes.  Yes very much so.  I would say the same thing about Jay.  Sometimes I wanted to kick his ass and get him going.  Isn't that right?  So I think that he was always very, very good for me, even starting at Wake Forest and I think sometimes    he won't ever admit it, but I think I was good for him too sometimes.  I pissed him off once in a while.  Sorry there.  So we're kind of opposites almost in personalities.  And it's been good for a lot of years.
Q.  Who won the horse game?  Did you guys play horse?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Yeah, you know, it's the 17 year old, he's got a little lift in his legs and he's doing all right.  Kevin shot pretty well and Jay still has a good shot.  And I've been a little rusty, so, but, anyway, I was worried about my right arm yesterday.  I blamed it on    the shots that I hit left yesterday was blamed on Bob Tway and the hoops.
Q.  You can always kid Bob that his son has one more USGA title than he does?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Oh, you should tell him that.  He's a good kid.  He's a wonderful player.
Q.  After a solid first round of 2 under par, how do you put your chances going into the next three days?
CURTIS STRANGE:  Well, it's a four day tournament and as we always say, it's a little bit cliche, but you can't win the event the first day, but you can certainly lose it.  And what we mean by that is that a good solid round just keeps you in contention and able to win.  But if you play a poor round it's going to be hard to come back, especially with the way the wind is supposed to blow the next three days.  So it's always nice to start off well and get some confidence and feel good about it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT