GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2019
Willie Cauley-Stein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just wondering how this injury happened and what exactly they're telling you about it?
WILLIE CAULEY-STEIN: It was just playing pickup. I went for a lob, came down awkward on it. Just put a lot of pressure on the top of my foot and just ended up being like a mid foot sprain.
Q. What are they telling you about a timeline?
WILLIE CAULEY-STEIN: That we're going to work through the month of October and then go day-to-day on it and see the pain level and just get it back to 100 percent. I mean, really just taking the time of not trying to come back early on it. I think that's the most important part is just having the discipline and not being on it and letting it heal back together 100 percent throughout this month.
Q. Obviously you were very excited about this new chapter with the Warriors and everything. How kind of just frustrating is it to have to wait to get on the court, and how are you dealing with that?
WILLIE CAULEY-STEIN: Yeah, I mean, that's -- it's so exciting out here with the new arena and new guys coming together. So not being able to be part of that on the court, I feel like training camp is an important part of the year, just building that camaraderie together and really starting that battle going into the journey of the season. So missing that and kind of being on your own is tough. Any time you've got an injury it's tough because you kind of get put on to a backseat, so you've got to find ways to keep yourself involved in the team and be around and not get like down on the situation, and really just staying mentally right to stay prepared.
Q. When you do get back, you signed a one-year deal with a player option. What are you looking to prove while you're here?
WILLIE CAULEY-STEIN: I'm not looking to prove anything. I'm just coming out here to play hard and try to fit into a system that I think I'll thrive in, and also at the same time have a chance to learn how to get to an entirely different level than I've been at and tap into something really great.
Q. What do you think makes this franchise so special over the last few years, and what have you learned since joining?
WILLIE CAULEY-STEIN: I think trust. The trust between the front office to the coaches to the players to the training staff, all the way around there's a trust that I've already felt and a belief that like you can get it done. I mean, that's the biggest thing for me is I just feel like there's like a big support group here, and achieving single goals, team goals, like it's all -- there's all like a big -- it's a platform of success here. Obviously it works. So it's exciting to be around, just like picking dudes' brains about certain situations and things like that. It's just an entirely different realm than I'm used to, and it's exciting.
Q. Steph and D'Angelo, two of the premier pick-and-roll ball handlers in the league, what are you sort of looking forward to when you're back on the court, and what have you sort of them from them from the outside?
WILLIE CAULEY-STEIN: Honestly getting them open. Outside looking in, playing with like two top premier point guards, and they're willing passers, I think it's like the easiest thing. Just get them open, and it's going to be like a favor in return because I feel like -- how it's going to play out is you've got to give up something, and you're not going to give up three-pointers, you're not going to give up D'Lo, so you've got to give up something. I feel like the dunker spot is going to be wide open. It's like a honey hole.
Really just get these guys open, and everything else will take care of itself.
Q. You kind of just addressed this, but I'm curious when you do get back on the court how you think your style sort of fits with this team and maybe the contrast of you and Kevon Looney at that center position can provide.
WILLIE CAULEY-STEIN: Oh, man, just tremendous speed and being able to get out and run with like anybody, honestly, and like being able to tap into like a defensive mind like Draymond is obviously going to put me at a whole higher level defensively, too.
Me and Kevon are kind of like yin and yang. The way we play is totally opposite. That's why it's going to work. I can teach him things that I do, and he can teach me things that he does that I obviously haven't done for the last four years. Watching him -- we came in together as rookies, so watching him come over here and seeing the things that he's done, it's like -- it's reassuring that I'm going to go in there and I'm going to learn to the best of my ability to try to do the same things.
Q. I've heard guys say in the past that when they get to a new team that it's like a clean slate, a fresh start. Is that the sense you have, and what does it mean to be able to go to a new team and start over again?
WILLIE CAULEY-STEIN: Yeah, it's like being a new kid at school. You get to write your own narrative. You get to change habits that you had before and kind of take on a whole entirely different entity, if you will. And like here, it's like -- I don't know, it's like perfect for what I've got going on off the court, on the court, the people around here, the support that you have, both on and off the court. It's amazing, so I'm just excited to really be part of this culture.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT