NBA DRAFT
June 25, 2015
Willie Cauley-Stein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  WILLIE CAULEY‑STEIN:   It's just a blessing being in this spot and this situation.   To learn under Boogie and being in an organization that's up and coming, a lot of young guys, and it's just cool to be able to be in the opportunity. 

Q.   Can you reflect on this past year with Kentucky and the fact that tonight is probably going to be a historical night for the program, so many guys getting drafted could break a record.   Have you talked about that with the other guys that could be picked tonight in recent weeks or months about what that means for Kentucky basketball as a whole and for you to be a part of it?
WILLIE CAULEY‑STEIN:   Obviously it's just good for the program.   It shows that a bunch of young kids can come together and still win, and at the end of the day still get drafted.   There's a lot of scrutiny on Coach Cal can't take young guys and turn them into a team and make them win and still be for each other and get drafted and play in their dreams. 

Q.   You mentioned DeMarcus Cousins.   How do you feel like you fit with DeMarcus, and how can you be on the floor together?
WILLIE CAULEY‑STEIN:   We're both really versatile.   He's a banger, but he also got finesse.   I complement him on defense and on the offensive side.   I'm able to space out the court and use my speed and quickness against people. 
I think we're going to have a good duo there.

Q.   Obviously Kings needed a rim defender and you're a guy that can bring defense, can guard multiple positions.   What do you feel you bring to Sacramento on the offensive side of the floor?
WILLIE CAULEY‑STEIN:   I mean, anything that they need me to bring.   I think I'm versatile enough to do just about anything on the offensive side.   Just now I get a chance to perfect my craft on it. 

Q.   There's been a lot of controversy this week surrounding the Kings and possibly trading DeMarcus Cousins and George Karl's controversy.   What do you think about that and possibly going to a franchise that may be not the most stable at this time? 
WILLIE CAULEY‑STEIN:   I mean, it doesn't even really matter how stable they are or not.   You know, they're going to end up coming together and putting pieces together to make a good team that can compete.   Whether DeMarcus stays or he goes, they're still going to do what they do and have a team that's going to play to win. 

Q.   There was so much talk leading up to this thing about, is the ankle an issue, is the offense an issue, does Willie love the game, is he going to slide in this draft.   There was some talk about if you got past the Kings.   Were you nervous?   How nervous?   And what were your thoughts before they picked you?
WILLIE CAULEY‑STEIN:   I wasn't nervous at all.   You know, I'm a strong believer in whatever happens, happens.   I was just riding the wave.   Whenever I got picked up, that's the place I was supposed to be at.   It's the Kings, so that's where I'm supposed to be at, and I'm just blessed to have the opportunity to go there and play. 

Q.   You had talked a little bit in the lead‑up to the Draft about thinking that your offensive game would be something that would surprise some people, that you were a little better on that end that some people thought.   What do you think you can do at a higher level that people are doubting at this point?
WILLIE CAULEY‑STEIN:   You know, shoot the ball.   I mean, obviously I can score around the rim, so that's not a big question mark.   But shooting the ball, get to the free‑throw line, make free throws, use my speed and quickness and dribble past bigger dudes that are just going to have to guard me.   It just depends on what I do now and how I take the next step in my learning curve. 

Q.   Kings had to have been looking up at the Lakers and Golden State and the Clippers for a couple years now.   What's your message for the fan base, unless a trade happens or anything like that? 
WILLIE CAULEY‑STEIN:   I'm super loyal, and the fact that they got a lot of cool things happening in the city with the new arena and they're redoing that downtown area, so it's going to be something really nice for the fans.   You know, hopefully we can turn it around as a squad and bring something passionate and fun to the city.   You know, we can be looked up as the Clippers and the Lakers and the Warriors. 
I'm just going to bring a lot of fun and energy to the city.   That's really all I've got to say. 

Q.   Off and on DeMarcus has kind of talked about how he wants out, he wants out of the Sacramento, away from the Kings.   How does that play on your mind and how well do you know the City of Sacramento? 
WILLIE CAULEY‑STEIN:   I've been there once.   It's a nice city.   I actually like it a lot.   A lot of people say, it's a bad city to go to, you don't want to be there.   I didn't see that.   I think it fits right into my personality.   It's super chill, modern style city. 
And I don't really know DeMarcus's situation, so I can't really speak on that. 

Q.   I believe the mayor of Sacramento is a former NBA player, Kevin Johnson.   Actually you have three years of college, and having more credits to graduate, what's your major over at Kentucky?
WILLIE CAULEY‑STEIN:   My major is communications.   I only have a semester left, so I'm really close to graduating.   That's something I'll finish in the next year or so.   I'm going to be taking courses throughout the year, maybe here and there, just something to just keep on building on, and over time just chisel away.

Q.   I know you got the custom logo made for yourself a while back.   Is this new that you got it put on the gold necklace tonight?
WILLIE CAULEY‑STEIN:   Oh, yeah.

Q.   Tell us about that. 
WILLIE CAULEY‑STEIN:   A little something you spoil yourself with.   I got a couple of them made.   It's just good fun, branding.   It's a little logo that me and my boys put together, so it's something that we're pushing, and hopefully it takes off. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT