U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2002
Stephanie Keever
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Do you have idea how good that is so far?  You continued with 10 consecutive pars?
STEPHANIE KEEVER:  You know, I'm pretty happy what I did today, got in the junk a few times, but got out, and made pars, making those putts here today.  That was a big difference, not make bogeys and trying to make pars; that was it.

Q.  How hard is it?
STEPHANIE KEEVER:  It's tough, this wind blowing.  A lot of tee shots, and they find their way off to the fairway or rough, but I'm pretty used to it.  Las Vegas has a lot of wind.  I like the wind.

Q.  What was the range of what it could have been?
STEPHANIE KEEVER:  Depends.  It started on the second hole.  No. 11, I made a really, really good par, had a 7-iron in and got up and down with a 7-iron in my hand, starting from there, it could have been, who knows? 
I made only one birdie today on No. 7, but I played very well today, very consistent.

Q.  How many times did you save par from 5-feet plus?
STEPHANIE KEEVER:  You're going to have to give me a minute here.  At least  -- at least three or four times that I hit like a third shot that was more than 15 yards into the green, I'll put it that way.

Q.  Someone told me  -- someone told me last year, if I remember right, that one hole that blew you away.
STEPHANIE KEEVER:  Yeah, I do remember.  You know, it was a very unfortunate situation, and I had to call a penalty on myself, which is hard on a tournament, especially when no one else sees it.  I got a little aggressive after that, and I tried to make a putt for bogey, and I got a little aggressive, but I feel like I'm over that, and I played great that whole week.

Q.  I flew in with your dad, and I was scared to death on that small plane, and he said that you absolutely love the Open because you play best on tough courses.
STEPHANIE KEEVER:  I do.  It seems that way.  I hit it straight.  I hit a lot of greens, and I'm a pretty good putter, especially on quick greens.  Hopefully, if I can keep it going here.  We'll see.

Q.  All the places and courses you've played under these conditions, how would you rate that as far as toughness?
STEPHANIE KEEVER:  If the wind continues to blow, it's one of the toughest ones.  You're hitting 3-wood, that means you have to be in the fairway to get there.  If this wind keeps going, it's going to be tough.

Q.  For somebody that comes in (inaudible)?
STEPHANIE KEEVER:   Yes. 

Q.  (Inaudible)
STEPHANIE KEEVER:  Yeah, I drove in, and just like you said, it was pretty flat, not a lot going on.  I heard it was a great course, and the second I drove in I could tell with all the junk you could see, it's gorgeous.  It's amazing this is made with the flat land, the hills and undulations, the vegetation is just awesome.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
STEPHANIE KEEVER:  I know.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
STEPHANIE KEEVER:  I didn't really know, but it's here, and it's hard as heck, I'll tell you.

Q.  You touched on this, but when the wind starts blowing 10 miles an hour or harder, as it is today, is it more difficult than it was yesterday?
STEPHANIE KEEVER:  Trying to hit fairways is the first issue, because the wind is blowing sideways, and you have to gauge how far out to hit it to bring it back in, and obviously getting on greens is really tough, especially into the wind or downwind, because you have to gauge how it's going to land or react, especially with grandstands behind it, how the wind is going to stop or be affected by it.

Q.  How happy are you to be done now?
STEPHANIE KEEVER:  Very happy.  I'm going to go see a movie or something.  I like the early times at the Open.  It's not a bad thing.

Q.  You're tied for 29th right now.  What do you think that might be at about 6:00?
STEPHANIE KEEVER:  I have no idea.  Hopefully I'll just keep moving up.  We'll see can't control any of that.  I'm done, I did my best.  That's all I can do. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT