SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 25, 2012
Joel Edwards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY ELBIN:   Joel Edwards, ladies and gentlemen, making his debut in the Senior PGA Championship, in with a 4‑under par 67 today in the second round here at Harbor Shores.   Joel, you're 2‑under for the championship.   13 of 13 fairways hit today, all 18 greens hit in regulation, sounds like almost like a dream round out here.  
JOEL EDWARDS:   Doesn't happen very often, but, yeah, I did, I struck it really nice and didn't make a bogey.   That doesn't, I'll bet that doesn't happen very often around here.   
KELLY ELBIN:   You had a bit of a choppy round yesterday, any explanation for how things turned around so quickly?   
JOEL EDWARDS:   30 miles an hour wind, you know, hit it a little worse.   But it's that kind of golf course.   
I just said on the Golf Channel a second ago there's sharks waiting everywhere.   I mean everywhere.   It doesn't matter if it's with a sand wedge in your hand, it doesn't matter, there's a shark waiting.   
And if you can fly it past that shark or fly it short of that shark, you're probably fine.   But if you don't, you're going to need to see a priest or something.   
(Laughter.)   Because you're going to say some bad stuff, trust me.   
(Laughter.)  
KELLY ELBIN:   It was all good today.   Could you go through the four birdies you had.   Starting on 10.   You made all pars on the back nine and then the four birdies on the front, please.   
JOEL EDWARDS:   Yeah let's see, 1, I hit driver and an 8‑iron to about five feet and made it.   
5, I hit just a driver, 5‑iron and a sand wedge about 10 feet and I made that.   
6, I made a bomb.   Kind of middle right.   About pin high, but about 40 feet and I made it.   I had a couple of those this week that I thought was going to go left, and I was putting a 20‑footer coming back from the right.   So ‑‑ and so this time I said, well I'm going to gamble and just see what it doesn't look like.   And I gambled and it went in.   
So you can read greens, but sometimes when they're, I don't want to get too ‑‑ anyway, but I'm sure I'm going to be the nicest one ‑‑ but you can get on one wrong side, have it just from five feet, it doesn't matter, just a little bit here, and you can wind up in Saint Joe.   You can wind up there easy.  
KELLY ELBIN:   Been a common theme this week.  
JOEL EDWARDS:   Yeah, I'm sure a lot of guys are going to say that.   But actually I got on the right side of the hill and made it.   
9, I hit driver, 3‑wood just off the front and 2‑putted.   
KELLY ELBIN:   Thank you very much.   Open it up for questions.   
   
 Q.   Is today's round anymore satisfying, given that you really hung in there yesterday with those winds and still managed a decent score despite the conditions?  
JOEL EDWARDS:   It is.   I felt like I played good yesterday, I really did.   I hit some really squirrely shots, but that, the wind's going to magnify it, if it's just a little bit unsolid, it's going to go sideways.   It doesn't matter.   If it's drawing just a little bit it's going to really go, if it's not hit correctly.   
I don't mean to sound like Hogan, but it's true.   I mean it is, it's true.   So that's the thing.   When you put wind on top of what the golf course is anyway, it's going to be really really hard.   Even today with the north wind it's still hard.   Because then you got the holes that were into the wind yesterday were down wind, so you really don't know where to hit it.   
You do know where to hit it, but then you go, well, if I hit it at that pin, sometimes you have to go away from it and catch a slope and just spin it back.   I mean you go, well everybody knows that.   Well, I don't see a whole lot of slopes in Texas.   There's just not a whole lot.   There's just not.   Wind, yes, but there's into the whole lot of slopes.   
   
 Q.   Do you think the guys who are playing well through around or two rounds sort of have the best attitude in that a lot of players may have sort of gotten a really negative attitude about the greens.   Is this one of those weeks where you have to sort of accept it and do your best?  
JOEL EDWARDS:   Absolutely.   Without question.   Everybody's going to have a hard time.   Everybody.   And everybody's going to hit some putts that you just look at it and go, wow.   You're speaking to the choir here.   Because it falls ‑‑ you're just going to have some shots, you're just going to have some ‑‑ you can hit a great shot in there and have no putt.   But that's just the way it is.   
You got to hit it on the right shelf or whatever it is.   You got to hit it there.   If you don't, you're going to have to make a 5‑ or 6‑footer for a par.   It's just that simple.   
And that could be with no wind and with a wedge in your hand or a 3‑wood, it doesn't matter.   You got to hit it on the right ‑‑ sometimes the way I've kind of looked at it now is you have it pin high on some of these things and if you're pin high on most of them, it's, you really don't have a whole lot of trouble.   You do, but sometimes ‑‑ but if you're short of the pin or long of the pin, you can get some really (Indicating) stuff like that.   
   
 Q.   The other day when we were talking you were saying that the last four years you spent a lot of time teaching and you love to compete and how when you have a great round at home it's just that, it's a great round at home, there's nothing like playing along in competition.   So can you put today's round in perspective then based on that?  
JOEL EDWARDS:   Yeah, you know, you play at home‑‑ I teach pretty much every day at home when I'm not playing and it's not rocket science.   Some people, when you teach them to draw, they think you're a genius.   But it's really not that hard, I can hook it with the best of them.   
But you go out and play and you want to play and you want to think you're playing.   And then you actually do it in competition, it's very rewarding mentally.   It does a lot for you.   Sure, there's no question about it.   Big difference.   Night and day.   
   
 Q.   Is the wind the biggest difference in the conditions between the two days or was there anything else as far as the conditions?  
JOEL EDWARDS:   No, it was, it's definitely the wind.   The south ‑‑ a south wind like ‑‑ I think it was south yesterday, wasn't it?   Southeast.   Blowing, you know, whatever it was, absolutely.   Because you got three different clubs you can probably hit.   And then today with the north wind and it's blowing half what it blew yesterday probably.   Probably only 10 out there, 15 out there right now.   
You're talking, you're down to one or two clubs.   So you're down to one or two anyway usually.   But when the, for the most part, you can hit one hard or hit one normal.   
Yesterday you had, I mean you had, well it could be a 3‑iron.   Well it's only 130.   Well it doesn't matter.   You got to try something.   And that's a huge difference.   Absolutely.   
The ball, you can flight the ball a lot higher today.   And on a golf course, especially this one, you couldn't fly it really high yesterday.   You really couldn't.   Because I hit a lot of bullets yesterday just to, because I was trying to hit it tree high or below the trees.   
And then today there's not a whole lot.   There was, well there's four or five holes that are actually in the trees and you really got to, you know, those, oh, man, you know?   So that's the biggest difference is, you know, if it's calm you're going to see a lot lower scores, obviously, you're going to see that anywhere.   Someone will shoot nothing, I promise you.   
KELLY ELBIN:   This is just your fourth event on the Champions Tour.   What's that experience been like out here as opposed to your days on the Regular Tour.  
JOEL EDWARDS:   Well, I was telling TJ the other day, the only difference is I know everybody here.   I've been playing the Nationwide Tour the last few years trying to get playing again and I don't know anybody.   They all call me sir.   And I really don't like that.   But, "Yes, sir, Mr.Edwards.   Great shot, Mr.Edwards.   Thanks."   
Well here they just call me Joel again.   So that makes it nice.   So I know most of the guys, well all of them, and, but that's the neat part because you know everybody.   
KELLY ELBIN:   Joel Edwards, great round of 67 at the Senior PGA Championship.   Thanks.  
JOEL EDWARDS:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT