SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 3, 2020
Jennifer Kupcho
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Career low in terms of raw numbers through 54 holes thus far.  This is the type of course that you can't fake it even though it's a short course.  Is this the type of course this really suits your game?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Yeah, I mean, the golf course is definitely tricky.  I think it really actually makes me focus a lot more just because some of the holes you have to like hit right on the spot going into the greens.
 So it's definitely a tricky.
 Q. This year thus far has been a little bit different story for you compared to last year.  Well, it's been different for everybody.  It's been a crazy year.  But nonetheless, do you feel like good play at ANA for a 22nd finish was heading you in the right direction to get to this spot?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Yeah, I just went through some changes right before ANA, and kind of since then I've been relaxed and just been able to feel like I can swing.
 So, yeah.
 Q. What will you do tonight and the in morning to get yourself ready mentally for a chance perhaps break through for that first of what should be many wins?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Honestly, just take care of my body.  I'm having a little bit of back issues this tournament, so working on that and just going out and playing the best I can.
 Q. Okay, and I got to ask you about the putt at 14.  That was about as improbable as they get.  What was going through your mind as tat putt was nearing the hole?  13, excuse me.
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   I can't believe it.  It was just like curving and it back-doored in.  It was kind of crazy.  I feel like I've gotten really creative over the last few years going up and up and down slopes, so that was a perfect putt for me.
 Q. Jennifer, nice bogey-free 6-under par 65 on moving day.  I would imagine that was one of the bigger rounds of your professional career out her on the LPGA Tour, and I would imagine it's going to take an even bigger round tomorrow to cap it off.
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Yeah, for sure.  I just came out here not knowing if I could go and play.  I was in so much pain.  Luckily I was able to fight through it and really just focus on making every swing the best that I can.
 I'm going to just go out and do that tomorrow.
 Q. You mentioned a little back pain.  What happened or at what point did it start flaring up?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   It's been kind of here all week.  Had a rib out earlier this week, so it's just been inflammation and working on it.
 Q. Yeah.  What kind of treatment do have to do for that?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Honestly, it's just a lot of deep tissue.  I mean, I have a nerve that's pinched, so just kind of massaging it and hoping for the best for it to loosen up.
 Q. Take me through how the course is playing, especially over the three days.  Seems like especially from morning from your different waves and then to today you've seen a different course each day.
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Yeah, I mean, especially from the beginning of the week.  It's in way better shape than I thought on Monday.
 It's definitely firming up a lot today.  I noticed it wasn't spinning back as much on the green, which is nice since we have so many wedges in.
 But it's a tough course, and, yeah.
 Q. You've had several Top 10s in your career in your rookie season last year.  How excited are you to get back into that position of not only a top 10, but make a run at a possible win?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   I'm just going to go out there and play my best.  It's a shootout for sure out here.  It's whoever plays the best on the last day honestly, so...
 Q. Was the pain present at the start of your round today?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Yeah.
 Q. When did it die down, or did it ever die down?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Not really.  It's still there.
 Q. And you shot 65.  That is a pretty remarkable achievement.
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Yeah, I've played through a lot of things in my career, so...
 Q. Is it lower back?  Mid-back?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Upper.
 Q. Upper back?  And I notice you had missed some cuts earlier this the year and played well manage Palm Springs.  Was the back acting up earlier in the year, or have you found something recently?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   No.  Honestly, it was just I needed some changes in everything, caddie, swing changes, everything.
 So I kind of did some changes s right before ANA and been successful since.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT