MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
July 12, 2019
Jennifer Kupcho
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You had a beautiful round of 66.  Six birdies, only one bogey.  You looked a little miffed walking off the 18th.  I know you wanted to get a birdie on 17 or 18.  In general, pretty nice playing.  How do you feel about your game so far?
JENNIFER KUPCHO: It's been really good.  I'm hitting the ball really good this week, reading the putts well, and putting good rolls on them.  Obviously walking off 17 and 18, two par-5s to finish you expect to get at least one.  Left 17 short and just pushed 18's putt.
It's a little upsetting, but it's exciting to see that I can do it and hopefully play well tomorrow.
Q. This life of a now professional golfer is such an up and down and you've had such a fabulous amateur career.  Just coming off two missed cuts; now you are in contention.  What's flipped around for you?
JENNIFER KUPCHO: Honestly, I was struggling with my hitting probably since I turned pro, so I took an off week in between the missed cuts and started figuring it out.  I played well last week and just couldn't make any putts, and come out this week and I've done that.
Q. Heading into the weekend at 9-under par.  What's been key to your solid play this week?
JENNIFER KUPCHO: I've been hitting the ball really well this week.  I bought a green book for the first time out here, so I've been able to read the greens really well and make a lot of putts.
Q. You played well here last year as an amateur.  Talk about how comfortable you are coming to a familiar place and somewhere you have a history.
JENNIFER KUPCHO: Yeah, I love this course.  Even walking in the practice rounds I just looked at it and I was like, Wow, I love being here.  It's just a great place, and I really like being able to come out here and be like, Oh, I know where everything, where the driving range and everything like that is.  It's just more of a comfort thing for me.
Q. You had a nice pairing with Cheyenne and Virginia Elena Carta this week.  Was that key to you just being more comfortable out here?
JENNIFER KUPCHO: Yeah, I think it definitely helped.  I had my boyfriend on the bag who hasn't ever caddied.  Obviously played with them before and I know they're pretty chill.  It was kind of nice to be able to let him learn a little bit about caddying with people that were a little bit more lenient.
Q. Game plan, strategy heading into the weekend?
JENNIFER KUPCHO: Do the same thing I've been doing.  It's been working, so just go out there and make putts.
Q. What it like for you to be towards the top, if not at the top depending on how this round finishes after day two?
JENNIFER KUPCHO: I mean, it's great.  Obviously you come in to every tournament wanting to win or play well.  Just thinking about that and going one round at a time; figure out a score that you want to shoot before the round and go out and shoot it.
Q. As you make your way through your rookie year, what are some of the big things you're learning?
JENNIFER KUPCHO: Definitely time management.  There are pro-ams, pro-am dinners, practice rounds.  You kind of have to get it all in and figure it all out while you're working out, practicing and all that, and getting enough rest.
So I think doing that.
Q. What have the past few months been like after Augusta?
JENNIFER KUPCHO: Crazy.  So much media.  So many time things that it's definitely been hard to calm down and really focus on golf.
Q. Is it difficult to make the transition to being a full-time pro with that, or how have you kind of handled that, I guess?
JENNIFER KUPCHO: Yeah, definitely a little bit.  I mean, there are still people that are like, Oh, can we interview you for Augusta?  I'm like, That happened two months ago.  I'm trying to move on and work on pro stuff.
Definitely a lot of nos to people, but it was fun.
Q. You were the first one to do that though so you're probably going to hear that until the end of your career.
JENNIFER KUPCHO: I mean, yeah.  Honestly, I think it'll kind of die down definitely when it happens next year.  It'll be the next champion and they'll get it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT