KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 9, 2020
Jennifer Kupcho
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're here with Jennifer Kupcho, who just returned a bogey-free round of 65.  You made it look easy out there today, five birdies on your round.  You got yourself at the top of the leaderboard.  You've got to be proud of how you took to Aronimink today.
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Yeah, the golf course is really hard, and yesterday the wind made the greens almost impossible I felt like.  So to come out in the morning, it was really cold, but no wind, and it made the golf course a lot easier.
THE MODERATOR:   Certainly looked it for you.  You started on No. 10 and started the day at 2-over and quickly had a birdie on No. 11.  Wondering if you could walk me through your birdies.  You had birdies on 11 and 14.
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   I mean, those couple of holes I just -- honestly from yesterday I wasn't making any putts, so to come on and start out strong, on 11 I made a pretty long putt, and it continued on 14.
Q. You had birdies on the front nine on 3, 6 and ended with one on 9.  Tell us about that closer.  It's always a good way to finish up a round.
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Yeah, it was really nice, a downwind par-5, so I was able to get up close, actually over the green, and then a nice chip and a good putt.
THE MODERATOR:   You come here hot; you finished second last week at ShopRite, before that a tie for 22nd, but before that a run of missed cuts.  Did you find something in your game over the past couple weeks.
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Right before ANA I had a couple changes.  I changed irons actually as well as changing caddies, and since then it's been really successful, and working on my swing, as well.  It's been nice to be able to see success after working so hard.
THE MODERATOR:   Did your heart skip a beat at all on 6 when that ball popped out of the cup and trickled back in?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Honestly, that putt was crazy.  Like it's a good thing it hit the hole because it was going a long ways.
Q. As you look at the test that this course is, was it about as stress-free as it could have been today?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Honestly, I was still really stressed.  I think -- I want to play good so badly that it just makes me want to hit good shots, and that is obviously stressful.
Q. What was more important, changing irons or changing caddies?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Probably the changing of the irons.
Q. And why did you do both?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Honestly, it was just time for a change with caddies, and my irons, I had talked it through with my parents, they actually came up with the idea, and I was like, honestly, I haven't played well since I switched.  So I went back to the irons that I was playing with in college, and obviously I picked up right where I left off with them.
Q. Not to keep going on the irons, but what were they and what are they?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Before they were the blueprints and now they're the Ping i210s.
Q. Just some examples of how and your caddie are working out well; this is such a big test.
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Honestly I think just from the start we were on the same page the whole time.  We've continued on the same page.  Like it's just different playing majors versus last week obviously was a shootout, so two different strategies going in, and we've been on it with both of them.
Q. What kind of impact do you think it has on women's golf whenever majors are hosted at these historic and prestigious venues?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   It's really great for women's golf.  It's a great test of golf, very challenging, and I think it's great that people are watching just because they want to see the golf courses that we get to play and how we play them.
Q. What is it about Aronimink that suits your eye?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Honestly the golf course is pretty wide off the tee I feel like, and I'm pretty strong with my drivers.  I mean, the greens are huge, so obviously it's hard to hit the greens still, but hitting the greens is pretty easy, and my lag putting has been really good.
Q. Last week you had some back issues; how has that been this week?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Not bad at all.  Fully recovered, I think.
THE MODERATOR:   We had a little birdie tell us that your coach, Ed Oldham, who's a PGA coach, was here earlier this week.  Could you talk to us about the importance that the coach has had in your life and your game now that you're at the top of the leaderboard in a major.
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Yeah, Ed has been a huge impact.  He's been with me pretty much since I started playing.  He knows what I need, and we don't really ever go through big swing changes, so he always knows how to fix whatever is going on, and it's really helpful.
Q. Jennifer, what kind of boost in confidence did last week's finish give you, and what tells you that you're ready to win out here?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Honestly, like going into last week, I was not prepared, like I felt completely unprepared, and honestly, I felt the same way coming into this week.  I didn't feel like I was ready to come play this type of a golf course.  It's really just -- I think not being prepared brings another challenge for me, and I think that's what helps me play well.
Q. Not being prepared, like how so?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Honestly, just not feeling comfortable with the golf course.  I mean, I played each nine only once this week, so just like -- I didn't feel like I knew what was going to happen.
Q. Did you get treatment for your back?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   I did, yes, the physios here on the LPGA.
Q. And have you consistently had issues with your back?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   I've had issues all through college, yeah.
Q. Is that why you sorted limited your practice holes, because of your back?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   No, not really.  I was honestly just exhausted from last week.  It takes a big toll being at the top of the leaderboard mentally, so I was just taking a break.
Q. When you kind of look back at Sunday at the ShopRite, what were some of your takeaways?  What did you learn from it?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Honestly it's just like the feeling of being in contention, it's really hard to stay in it and especially after making the double on No. 8 the final day.  I've learned that I can come back and still be in contention.
Q. The difference in putting between yesterday and today, was it something with you, that clicked for you, or was it just the greens being a little more receptive and a little slower this morning?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   I wouldn't say they were really slower, but I think having the big gusts of wind yesterday was a lot harder to read putts and figure it out.  It was honestly -- I just started making putts, and that just really boosted my confidence.
Q. You said you made a long one on 11.  How long was the putt and what did you have in here at 9?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   The putt on 11 was like 35 feet, I think, and I had like 245 to the pin on 9.
Q. What did you hit?
JENNIFER KUPCHO:   3-wood.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT