GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 26, 2021
Jennifer Kupcho
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Jennifer, what a great round here at Lake Nona.  Quickly made up that bogey on No.2, on your hole 2, with that birdie on hole No.4.  Would you say that's when the momentum started kicking in for you?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Yeah.  Honestly, I just hit it in the hazard on No. 2, the par-5.  Tried to go for it.  I did the best I could with what I was given.  I short-sided myself, and I wasn't worried it.  I mean, I knew there was birdies out there.
 Definitely going around the holes the pins are definitely tucked today so it's playing harder.
 Q. Do you think the tough pin positions are one of the harder points that will make it tricky for competitors this weekend?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Yeah, I think so.  If the pin positions are not easy it's hard to get to them.  The greens are hard and fast.  The rough around the greens is hard and not easy to chip out of, so you have to be thinking about that all the time.
 Q. Overall, how does Lake Nona Golf Course play with your golf game, do you think?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Really well.  I think I hit it further than most of the field, or I would like to think I do, so that gives me a lot of shorter irons in.  Being able to place them is going to be a lot easier than other girls hitting 6- and 5-irons in.
 Q. We found out that some of the players set goals each day for shooting a certain score.  Did you set any goals coming into this week and has that changed?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Not really.  I just go out there, and, I mean, you never know how it's going to play or anything once you get out there or what the conditions will be, so have to go out and just try to play my best every day.
 Q. Final question:  Going into the weekend what are you telling yourself and how are you getting ready?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Just I'm going to go work out this afternoon and then take it easy tonight, and just come out and try and play my best again.  Coming into this week I didn't have a whole a lot of goals, so just going out and play my best.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT