GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 25, 2021
Jennifer Kupcho
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Jennifer, what a great first round here at Lake Nona.  How do you feel now that you've got round one under your belt?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Really good.  It's definitely interesting to come back after off season.  Definitely some nerves on the 1st hole.  Definitely a lot different putting to a hole that doesn't have a pin as well.
 So it's all getting back used to it and back through the nerves.
 Q. You had a bogey-free round.  That's got to feel really great.  What worked the most out there today?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Honestly everything was on.  Coming into the week I didn't think my short game was going to be very good and it happened to be really good today, as well as my putting.  I think that's the key, really just trying to limit the mistakes out there.
 Q. When do you think the momentum started kicking in?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   I don't know.  I mean, after a couple holes once I had calmed down it was just going out and hitting shots the best that I could.
 Q. Was there a memorable putt today?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Not really.
 Q. You just mentioned coming off the off-season.  What do you do during the off-season to get ready for this tournament?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Honestly, just practicing and playing with the girls and guys at my club.  Just going out and trying to compete and play with each other just to get the nerves kind of flowing, yeah.
 Q. Was there any particular goal that you set in mind ahead of this week?  Or maybe not.
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Not really.  I have a new caddie as well as getting into working out a lot more, so it's really just trying to figure out how my caddie works, how working out during the week works, and making sure I am eating enough.  I am changing a little bit of nutrition out on the course.
 So it's all just trial and see how it goes this week.
 Q. Just one last question.  Speaking a little bit about that, have you changed anything maybe lifestyle or golf-wise that prepared you for this week?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Not really.  I mean, I started working out a lot more and got a trainer over break, so doing that a lot and trying to get strength.
 Q. Just going to say, you started on the back nine today.  You had the nice birdie streak out there.  What lends itself so well to your game, especially starting on the back nine compared to maybe the front nine?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   I came out, Monday and Tuesday and played the front nine on Monday and the back nine on Tuesday and didn't play on Wednesday.  I definitely hit the ball a lot better on Tuesday.  I think I was a little bit more ready to go play the back nine, and I think having that behind me was helpful to start out.
 Q. And then still to be able to go through and do nine straight pars on the front nine, any close calls or saves out there?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Oh, yeah.  I had a couple questionable shots, questionable putts as well.  I left like a lag putt ten feet short and happened to make the putt for par, so definitely was struggling out on the front.
 It's also just, I mean, I haven't played and walked 18 holes since CME.  It's definitely a different game out there.
 Q. Was that a choice of yours to put down the clubs and not go as hard in the off-season?
 JENNIFER KUPCHO:   Not necessarily.  I just usually just take a cart at home.  That's what we do.  I'll go walk nine holes, but usually it's after I work out in the morning and I don't want to go walk 18.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT