AL DIVISION SERIES: ANGELS v RED SOX
October 6, 2007
Howie Kendrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  I know it's only your second year up here, did you get any sense on the plane ride here just the emotions of the team coming off a pretty tense time like that? 
 HOWIE KENDRICK:  I think it's a game.  We just have to do the same thing day in, day out.  Manny hit a fastball.  Got a good bat.  You hate to lose those games like that because we always feel like we have a chance.  We had a lot of opportunities early in the game as well as they did. 
 And playing throughout that and then it went on into the later innings like that, and they got a great team just like we've got a great team.  I think losses like that, there's no way you can save that.  We went out and swung the bat.  I think we did well, but in that situation you hate to come up short. 

 Q.  You were one of the guys playing a lot the last week.  Do you feel like any sense the team lost the momentum down the stretch there? 
 HOWIE KENDRICK:  I think you had the same thing happen, you win and lose games.  We bounced back coming off the All-Star break.  We had a little rough start there getting back after the All-Star break.  But down the stretch -- I mean, we lost the game in Texas there.  But I don't think it affected us.  I think we bounced it back.  We have a great team, able to bounce back.  Guys injured in and out of the lineup, but I think our bench makes up for a lot.  We have a lot of guys that can play every day and we have different guys stepping up and I'm sure we can add anybody up there, say it would be a better lineup. 
 But I think we can add any guy in there and have a good lineup and win ball games.  I think that's what's great about our team.  Regardless of whether we lost one game or two games in a row, I feel like we could come in here blazing and even in this series, come back and tie this thing up and then we'd head back to their place. 
 So we just have to keep playing good baseball and play the same type of baseball we played all year.  Hit and run, steal bases, move guys and get guys in scoring position.  If we do those things tomorrow and continue to play our game, we'll have a lot of success and I think we can bring this series back. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT