DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2008
Pelle Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PELLE EDBERG:  Played really well out there, hit a lot of greens and made a lot of putts.   
  
  Q.  Pretty satisfying when the birdies are dropping that fast?   
 PELLE EDBERG:  Yeah, it's been a long time since I've shot a couple under in a round and I'm very pleased and looking forward to the tournament.    
  
  Q.  I was going to ask where that round was come from because in recent weeks you've hardly been on the radar.   
 PELLE EDBERG:  Started off good in South Africa and finished sixth and I missed two cuts but made the cut last week but finished always last.   
 Coming into this week, I've been practising pretty hard and it feels pretty good and I changed to the belly putter.  No. 1, it helped me a lot I think getting a better roll on the ball.  So I'm going to keep that in my bag and see what happens.   
  
  Q.  It is mostly on the greens where the difference is?   
 PELLE EDBERG:  Oh, yeah, put a lot of pressure on myself, I knew if I missed the green, I had to putt it a metre near the hole to make it.  Now it feels a bit easier.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel the score will stand the test of time over the day?   
 PELLE EDBERG:  Oh, it's going to be a couple low scores I think if the weather keeps like this.  I don't know, it's going to be a Top-10 at least, I hope.  We'll see what happens.   
  
  Q.  It's always very nice to see your name up there with Tiger Woods beside you, as well.   
 PELLE EDBERG:  Yeah, it's always nice to -- well, this is a good week to compare because a lot of golfers come to this tournament.  It's a pretty good field.  So we'll see what happens, but yeah, it looks good so far.   
  
  Q.  You're pretty experienced at playing the big events now, but does it add that little bit of extra zest to a tournament knowing that he's playing here?   
 PELLE EDBERG:  Definitely.  I'm not paying too much attention to what he's up to, but I mean a lot of the guys that are here are the world's top-ranked players.  It's always nice to see them practising and hit a couple of putts and you can watch them and see what they are up to.  When you're out on the course, you're focusing on the golf.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT