BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 30, 2004
Don Chatlos
David Flores
Bill Koch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVID FLORES:  That's my daughter.  She is my youngest.  I have four. 
 
DON CHATLOS:  15 years ago in an apartment on Rosany [ph] Boulevard, me and him sat there, he wasn't riding too many winners, and I wasn't running too many.  Here we are right now.  
 
Q.  David, in watching the replay, a remarkably calm ride all the way around.  You had him in a beautiful spot.  I can imagine their confidence level was high watching it, with the possible exception when Antonius Pius was gaining on you and looked to take a bad step or something and derailed his momentum.  Were you aware of anything Antonius Pius was doing behind you?  Did you think the lead was safe? 
 
DAVID FLORES:  Well, one thing about this horse, he takes the lead, and he is very tough to go by.  Like Donny said, just go for it when you have a chance to go.  So I was even more patient than that.  I knew the horse had a lot of ability, I was capable to save more and wait a little longer.  When I seen the little spot open in the middle of the turn, I just went and -- I said, "Watch out, I'm coming."  I was already there.  It was the way he moved down the stretch.  The turn was deep.  So it was very hard for somebody to come.  
 
Q.  Bill Koch, you are a native of Chicago --
 
BILL KOCH:  LA.  
 
Q.  I am sorry, you went to Northwestern.  You, obviously, met Don in California, but were the Chicago common ties part of what brought you together? 
 
BILL KOCH:  What brought us together is he is a great trainer.  It has nothing to do with location or anything, except that this guy can train horses and he knows horses.  Like I said last night, we had a toast, he is a great communicator and great friend.  That's why he is a good horseman.  
 
Q.  I know that there are many partners or investors, including Don, in this horse.  How many are in Little Red Feather Racing? 
 
BILL KOCH:  There are 13 owners.  Little Red Feather Racing has a bunch of owners.  We are a big, fun partnership, little red feather.com.  Come join us now.  
 
Q.  Now, you guys have 13 partners, but I mean, you guys made Saratoga stable look like (inaudible).  Your horse cost $3,200.  What were you hoping to get when you bought a horse for that amount? 
 
BILL KOCH:  We were hoping Breeders' Cup.  We just got into this and my people are very realistic.  They know what's going on.  They know the thrills and chills of horse racing, and that's why they are in this.  We never set out to make a million dollars.  We never set out -- we knew going in, that's what I tell everybody coming into horse racing, look, there is a chance you could lose your money.  This right here is not about money.  You look around the room and see smiles and cheers and that's what we are about.  It used to be it was fun, and people could laugh, and people could cry, and people could cheer, and go crazy.  That's what it needs to be.  That's how people need to get back into the game.  All this stuff right here, guys, we are diving in the fountain.  
 
Q.  Lone Star security, we will let them know. 
 
BILL KOCH:  Somebody is going in the fountain, maybe Little Joe.  
 
Q.  Two strategy questions:  First of all, the layoff leading up to his last race in the mile Santa Anita, and also the fact, in part, because it's based in California, soft turf was a question.  How do those two factors weigh on your mind? 
 
DON CHATLOS:  The layoff was by design.  I knew a lot about this horse last year when they gave him time off, and he ran second and then came back and ran huge in  
 La Jolla.  I knew with one race he is good enough to run against top-class competition in a second start.  Beginning of the year, same thing.  He actually won.  It was a little overnight thing, glorified allowance race, but he ran huge in the (inaudible).  He showed me the second start is going to be the money run right there.  We look at  Delmar,  and the mile and the eighth is not for us.  The plan after the Delmar Derby was mile races only.  We gave him the summer off.  The mile race was perfect at Oak Tree and Chris McCaren [ph], you are right, they can run three weeks back to back.  So that's where the layoff came from.  
 
BILL KOCH:  Hip hop.  
 
Q.  Dave, a question for you from the press box.  You had good success here.  Won stakes at Lone Star Park.  Can you talk about your experiences here in Texas and Lone Star? 
 
DAVID FLORES:  They (inaudible) the first handicap and derby, and from there I was every year (inaudible) I am always happy to come back. 
 
Q.  How did you find the course condition out there?
 
DAVID FLORES:  It was kind of soft today.  It rained last night.  It's pretty firm.  Today was just perfect, the way we wanted it.  
 
Q.  Phil, your grandfather was an accomplished Hollywood producer who loved horse racing.  Can you tell us a little bit about him and his career, his love for racing? 
 
BILL KOCH:  Growing up -- I have told this story numerous times this week, as you know.  He used to pick me up after school at 3:00 in the afternoon and sneak away to the track.  You know, when you have experiences like that, you sit on the back stretch and talk to Chris McCaren, it's just infectious as a kid.  In 1975 Telly Savalas, he owned with Telly Seveles, and he would give me the lollipops to pass out at the track.  When you are six years old and doing things like that, I was lucky.  That gave me the passion for this game that I am hopefully passing on to other people.  Hopefully people out there see this, see what you can do with a smaller budget.  You don't need to spend $1.5 million on a horse.  You don't need to spend $8 million on a horse.  We did this with a modest -- we are regular people like you and me.  That's what's amazing about this.  That's what my grandfather would like.  He always believed.  He used to say "Go get 'em," like that.  You would ask him who he would bet, and he would say -- my sister is out there, and he would say, "Give me the 10 horse.  Do you want him to win?"  What did he say?  
 
UNKNOWN SPEAKER:  "Not to lose."  
 
BILL KOCH:  That was awesome.  Growing up, that's the way to do it.  That's the way to do it.  I know and he knows, we talked about this last night at dinner, we know and understand how lucky we are to be here.  That's one of the reasons you see us out there celebrating and being excited.  You don't get many chances like this.  For me to look around the room and see my best friends in the whole world and my family and my racing family is -- I don't know what to say.  (Indicating) shaking his head, big old grin. 
 
Q.  We have another question from the press box.  As a visual aid, if you could stand up and do a 360 to show off the silks.  Very nice. 
 
DAVID FLORES:  Chatlos, Chicago Cubs.  
 
Q.  Obviously, the horse is named after number 50, Mike Singletary, the distinctive eyes beneath the helmet.  The question from upstairs is:  To your knowledge, was Mike Singletary, who now works for the Baltimore Ravens as an assistant, do you know whether he was watching today? 
 
BILL KOCH:  We hope so.  We talked to him right before we came and we told him all about it.  I e-mail with his wife, Kim.  They knew what time the race was on.  He mentioned he was going to be on a train going to Philadelphia.  He knew about the race definitely.  I am sure he is going to be thrilled.  He was very excited about it.  
 
Q.  Any other questions for Team Singletary? I just want to know what the two of you think of the venue? 
 
BILL KOCH:  I have to tell you, the people here have been fantastic.  I had the best week.  Everybody here is so nice.  It is unbelievable, really great.  The venue is what it is, but without the people who make it, that's it, too.  You know what I am saying?  The people have been unbelievable.  They have been taking care of us, anything we want.  The second we got here we felt this massive push behind us.  
 
DON CHATLOS:  That was really good.  
 
BILL KOCH:  You had so much confidence.  We walked to the track and I got stopped by a security guard, and I got nervous.  He said, "We are rooting for you guys."  I was like okay, great.  It has been -- you couldn't ask for anything more, really, top class.  
 
DON CHATLOS:  They have done a great job.  I was a little sceptical.  They built a smaller grandstand here, which is what you need in this day and age.  You don't need the mammoth grandstands.  They set this place up unbelievable, from the training in the morning, anything you needed from the stalls to the tickets.  They were just unbelievable.  They did a really good job.  It's not just because we won.  We would say the same thing even if we had gotten beat.  
 
Q.  Did you cash any tickets on the race? 
 
BILL KOCH:  I think so.  Maybe 15-1.  22-1?  He is reading a future book.  We had him at 22-1.  30-1.  
 
DON CHATLOS:  The party is at the Four Seasons tonight.   
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT