AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v YANKEES
October 19, 2009
Scott Kazmir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Scott Kazmir.

 Q. Could you talk about your experience last year pitching in the postseason, and how maybe you benefit from that this year? 
 SCOTT KAZMIR: Well, last year being in the postseason making it all the way to the World Series you've got a lot of experience. So come this year there's really not any surprises. You know, you know what to expect. You know what the atmosphere's going to be like in every stadium that you're in. So you're just -- you're ready for it.

 Q. You've had a reputation as a guy who has done your best work against the best teams, basically. How is that? 
 SCOTT KAZMIR: Can't put my finger on one thing that really, you know, you could say that that's why I was successful. I think that just being on the big stage I'm just really -- I just get excited to get amped up, just get really focused for the postseason.

 Q. When the Angels made the deal to get you, one of the things that the front office people said was it's games like this one that you're going to pitch tomorrow that are the reason, one of the big reasons they've wanted to have you on the team. How does that make you feel going into this assignment? 
 SCOTT KAZMIR: Excited. Very excited. I'm up for the challenge. I like having challenges like that definitely. I don't put any extra pressure on my self. I just go out there and pitch my game. With this team, the Yankees, they're a very high-powered offense, so you just have to attack the strike zone. I'm not going to try to do anything extra, just pitch my game.

 Q. How much are you looking forward to facing Sabathia and probably knowing how good you're going to have to be just because you're facing them?
 SCOTT KAZMIR: You just said it right there. I'm going to have to be very good facing Sabathia because he's not going to give up much. You have to match him every inning. You know, that's what I'm looking forward to do.

 Q. How much tougher is it to face Alex Rodriguez when he's as hot as he is? 
 SCOTT KAZMIR: Anyone that's seeing the ball as good as he is, it's tough. You know, you can just tell when hitters are comfortable out there. When they start hitting the ball hard to opposite field, they're really seeing the ball good and really feeling comfortable out there. So like I said, you've got to attack the strike zone and just get them in defense mode. If you get behind hitters like that, especially how good he's seeing the ball, he's going to hurt you.

 Q. At the time of the trade, how did you react to the idea that the Rays wanted to trade you and that the team that you had really spent so much time with was going to part with you? 
 SCOTT KAZMIR: I didn't really look at it like that. I looked at it like the Angels wanted me. 
 You know, it was tough at the very beginning just because of the timing of it. You know, we weren't -- when I was with the Rays we weren't too far out of the Wild Card race. So it just seemed kind of odd timing, just weird timing of the trade to happen. 
 But as soon as it happened, I was very excited knowing what I was -- what organization I was going to be in. Knowing that I was going to be in the postseason again.

 Q. How easily were you able to sort of like integrate yourself with your new teammates and make friends, et cetera? 
 SCOTT KAZMIR: Well, I knew most of the guys already just from playing against them the past couple of years. But as soon as I got into the clubhouse I felt welcome, met all the guys. Just pretty much felt comfortable as soon as I came in. Everyone was cool. It was a great atmosphere in the clubhouse, so definitely got comfortable. 
 But it seemed like I needed to have that first start, first game on the field to really feel like I'm contributing, and everything after that was just -- just felt good. Felt like I've been there all year.

 Q. What impact do you think having familiarity with this Yankee lineup, how will that help you or hurt you when you start? 
 SCOTT KAZMIR: I have faced them quite a bit. I think there's not going to be any disadvantages or advantages to anyone. You know, they've seen me. I've seen them. It's kind of a game of adjustments. So I think that we're both sitting in the same boat. I just have to execute pitches. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Scott. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT