THE NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2000
Naree Wongluekiet
Aree Wongluekiet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








AREE WONGLUEKIET: I started off very poorly today. Couldn't hit it in the fairway, my
putting was not good, but in the middle of the round, I was playing quite well. I didn't
hit the ball great today either, but my putting was quite good so it carried me. 
NAREE WONGLUEKIET: Started off all right. Made a string of pars, and then a bit shaky
in the middle of the round. And then heading into the back nine, felt all right and made a
couple birdies coming in. Just tried to hit fairways and greens today, and did pretty much
that. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

NAREE WONGLUEKIET: 16, 18? Quite a ways. 30. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

NAREE WONGLUEKIET: It was like eight feet, not that far. 

Q. Naree, what would you say was the highlight of your round today, your best hole or
shot? 

NAREE WONGLUEKIET: What's that hole before the par 3, 16? I would say 16, I hit a good,
solid 3-iron. I made birdie. 

Q. Girls, how did it feel being out there? Were you nervous? Did it take a while for
the jitters to stop? How did it feel to be out there playing in this kind of tournament? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: The first four, five holes, I was very nervous. I couldn't hit the
ball, but after a while, I felt quite comfortable and I started playing better. 

Q. Did your fellow competitors have much to say to you today? Were they supportive or
did they play their own game and never mind about you? How did that go? 

NAREE WONGLUEKIET: I think they pretty much played their own game, but they were quite
nice people we played with today. 

Q. Naree, how helpful was it that you were playing with Helen Dobson, who you at least
knew and played a little bit with before? 

NAREE WONGLUEKIET: I think I had fun with her since I know her from before, and she
made me relax a little bit. It's fun, talking to her and playing with her. 

Q. You beat quite a few players today, including Annika and Juli Inkster, I think. Are
you guys happy with the way you played, or are you disappointed that you didn't put out a
lower number? How do you guys feel with the way you did play overall? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: I think I'm quite pleased with the way I played today. My putter
wasn't working the first few holes on the first nine, but things got better at the end,
and I holed a couple of putts coming in and it gave me more confidence. 

Q. Was it any different conditions or just a whole experience of being in an LPGA
tournament versus the junior tournaments you play in? Any differences at all? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: Just the conditions were much harder. The course is so much different
than junior tournaments. The rough, especially, there's no rough in junior golf and the
putting surface is very fast.

Q. Did the two of you keep track of what the other was doing? Did you know what your
sister was doing and did you ever have a chance to talk to each other if the groups caught
up? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: Not really. I didn't really study her score very much today. I just
tried to play my own game. 
NAREE WONGLUEKIET: I didn't take a look at the leaderboard at all. I didn't take a look
at any scores; so, I had no idea. 

Q. Girls, how often do you hit a 3-iron in a junior tournament, or how was club
selection today different from junior tournaments? 

AREE WONGLUEKIET: Definitely more long irons today into greens, and a lot more precise
calculations, especially with my caddie. Maybe not playing to the pins and playing to
certain parts of the greens. We don't really get to use that much long irons into par 4s
in junior tournaments.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT