U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 9, 2006
Peter Jacobsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CRAIG SMITH:  Peter Jacobsen, 3 birdies in the first seven holes, finishes minus five.
PETER JACOBSEN:  Hello.
Q.  You got to minus seven, you must have been feeling pretty good.

PETER JACOBSEN:  I felt great.  I had one of the    funny, I played at Winged Foot this year and I made six double bogeys by missing the fairway like that.  Caught it and I didn't want to compound a mistake.  Missing a few like that is not really a mistake.  But I didn't want to compound one mistake with another.  And I did that on nine.  I had to lay it out with an 8 iron and I hit a pitch from about 60 yards.  It was actually a pretty good pitch, but the pin was tough.  I got too aggressive and went over the green and made double bogey there.  I made six.  So it really caused me to slow down.  I bogeyed No. 11.

Hit it into the fairway bunker there and then I really had to gather myself and just know that the course was tough coming in and try to play consistent and I did.  From there I played 1 under.  Coming in.
Q.  You had three birdies right there on the front nine, you had to feel good.  You thought 7 iron, you got there.  And the weather cooperated and it turned out to be a good day.  It looked like you were really on track.

PETER JACOBSEN:  We got lucky today.  The weather got nasty, went through, softened the greens quite a bit.  So everybody was a little more aggressive as they were yesterday.  I got off to a good start.  I just couldn't keep it going.
Q.  Did you look to see that you were alone in first?

PETER JACOBSEN:  I never really saw that.  I knew that I was in a group of six or seven.  Coming down nine I thought I was probably tied for the lead.  Somewhere close.  And then when I walked off nine and got to 10, I saw that I was one back or two back.

But you know, they all count the same and I've got no excuses except just it's almost worse to miss the fairway like this (Indicating) than it is missing it 15 yards.
Q.  Physically how did you feel?  I know you

PETER JACOBSEN:  About the same.  It gets    it takes me four or five holes to get started and then I get into a rhythm.
Q.  You just stopped to congratulate Allen.  Did he win it?  Did he chip that?

PETER JACOBSEN:  Oh, I think that he probably won it on 17 there.  I'm so impressed with Allen as a player.  I love to play with him.  Because he's so efficient with his game.  He doesn't waste strokes.  I said it on the air, you can take Mickelson, take Woods, take Vijay, take Jim Furyk, I'll put this guy up against anybody with his wedge from a hundred yards in.  The guy is phenomenal.  He's automatic.
Q.  The pin placements tougher today than they were?

PETER JACOBSEN:  Yeah, they were tougher.  They had them hidden behind some knobs today.  But, again, with the greens being soft, with the rain this morning, it kind of took away a little of the teeth overall.
Q.  You're not looking for a consolation prize, but to finish 66, 68, 69, on this course.

PETER JACOBSEN:  Finished great.  Yeah.  The first day, actually, I played as well, I just didn't putt as well.

I wasn't    the first couple days you're always kind of feeling out the golf course and I didn't get off to a good start the first day, I was 3 over after 12.  But I hung in there and finished 2 over.  So overall it was a good week.  It was a great week.
Q.  Your thoughts on Prairie Dunes after four rounds?

PETER JACOBSEN:  Wonderful golf course.  I said    I was kind of picking Tom Watson before the week started because it kind of feels and smells like a British Open.  Tom's won five of those.  Prairie Dunes, I said it's kind of like the old course at St. Andrews rolled into Cyprus Point, rolled in with Pebble Beach.  That's a pretty good combination.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT