U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2006
Peter Jacobsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RAND JERRIS:  In at minus two, tied for the low round of the championship, Peter Jacobsen with a 66 today.
 PETER JACOBSEN:  For my first number here I would like to do a medley from the Rolling Stones.  That's kind of a sweet little thing that I normally start out with.  Hit it.

(Laughter.)
Q.  That had to be very, very gratifying to be able to come out in the afternoon when conditions were obviously a little bit tougher than the morning and put up a good number.
 PETER JACOBSEN:  Well, I played well yesterday.  I shot 72 yesterday.  I had four bogeys and only two birdies, but I felt like my game was solid.  I drove it well.  Hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens.  Just didn't make any putts.

So coming into the round I felt confident.  I wanted to get off to a good start, and didn't quite get off to the start I wanted.  I bogeyed No. 12.  Second day I bogeyed that hole.  This time from the middle of the fairway.  I 3 putted.

Made a good birdie on 13, and I felt like I was just ready to break through.  In fact, I said to my caddie, Mike, I said, you know, for two rounds at Winged Foot, when I missed the cut and here already for a round and a half I just didn't feel like anything was going my way, I said, I'm going to make it turn around, and we did.  We turned it around and got some putts    hit some really good shots and got some putts to fall.
Q.  I know you're very good friends with Jay, and obviously he struggled today and certainly didn't play the type of golf that he is capable of.  Did you see that?  Were you able to    you don't want to feed off someone else's misfortune, but were you able to see an opening there and start getting your game rolling?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  Now, it's not good judge your game by anybody else's game.  Jay birdied the first hole right out of the clubhouse, so he was 4 under par and tied for the lead.  I fully expected Jay to probably finish the day at 5, 6, 7 under par.

So I knew it was up to me to just nibble back.  Just make some smart pars, attack some holes when I had wedges in my hands, and try to get back.  Anything under par after two rounds in this championship is great.

So I felt that even though I was two over starting the day, and then 3 over after the first three holes, total, I still felt like I could get back to even par and as it turned out I got back to 2 under.
Q.  How much can you    can you take us through 9, please, just kind of your thoughts?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  The ninth hole?  Yeah.  I hit a good drive down the left side.  It took a bounce to the left and went into the first cut of the rough, which set up really a    it was actually a benefit for me because I was into the wind, had about 170 yards and I took a 6 iron and I just tried to play a British Open type of bump and run.

Hit the shot I wanted and it landed just short of the green, got up on the false front but ended up coming back down into the fairway just short of the green.  Pretty easy putt really.  Just up the hill, breaking right about a foot and knocked it in.

Had a lot of confidence, felt great with it, and I    actually I misread it it was missing a hole a little bit to the right and the last two feet it turned back and fell into the cup.  So it was pretty fortunate.
Q.  You mentioned that you felt like you were ready to break through.  Was there any one thing that kind of got that rolling?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  No, nothing really.  I just    I was hitting good shots and hitting good putts.  You can tell when you're hitting good putts if they're rolling properly, if you have the right speed and line and they're just running over the edge.  That's pretty much what I was doing yesterday and for the first part of today.

I hit some really good shots on the front, my back side, the front side.  I had had some short putts for birdie and knocked them in.
Q.  Did you feel particularly good physically today?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  Actually, I started out, I was a little hesitant starting out.  My knee was bothering me this morning.  As I said, I'm trying to swing like Walter Hagen, but I walk like Walter Brennen out there.  I'm getting by.
Q.  66 in these conditions, with the tough wind and the course hardening up, that could be the round of the championship right now.
 PETER JACOBSEN:  Well, it's    I played in a lot of U.S. Opens, and now my third U. S. Senior Open.  You really have to take each hole at a time.  You can't be thinking ahead.  When you tee off No. 1 you can't be thinking of 7 if you got the prevailing wind like we had today.  You know it's going to be a driver if you get it in the fairway and an iron.

You got to play the first six and play each hole as they come and that's the most important thing, just play it one at a time.
Q.  How would you compare this rough to the Winged Foot rough?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  Very similar to the Winged Foot rough.  They have got the graduated situation, which I like.  This has got    these fairways have more undulations on the edge.  So you could actually get a good break.  You could actually hit a ball that's heading out of the rough and it can land in the edge of the fairway and kick back.  That didn't happen at Winged Foot.

If you got it going left to right at Winged Foot, man it was in the rough.  I was going to introduce my next guest from Corvallis, Oregon.
Q.  Talk about the 7th hole.
 PETER JACOBSEN:  7th hole?  I hit    well playing the 7th hole here is like playing    I feel like the 7th hole might be a hole you might play at Birkdale or Troon or Turnberry.  You got to    especially on a day like this    you got to fit it between the mounds and kick it down there and get it as far as you can.

I drove it down today, hit a really long drive, and had a wedge for my second shot.  Ball landed right by the minimum pin and went all the way to the back of the green, and I had had a really difficult 2 putt probably about sixty feet and I putted it down to about five feet and made it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT