SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2006
Peter Jacobsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KELLY ELBIN:  Peter Jacobsen, ladies and gentlemen, in today with around of four over par 75.  Tied for third after three rounds of the 67th Senior PGA Championship, three strokes back.  Peter, a most interesting day out there.
PETER JACOBSEN:  Yeah, it was hard.  This is not the kind of course you want to play in the wind.  There's, as we said yesterday, it's an exacting golf course and I just didn't put the ball in the right spot.  I kept hitting a lot of shots over the greens.  I hit it through on 6 and 7.

17 I hit it long there.

So you fall into those little surrounds there and they're interesting on some of the ones, 17 especially, Gil and I both bogeyed, when you fall into some of the surrounds, they have got sprinkler heads right on the edges of the greens, so I guess Johnny Miller was saying we should have putted that ball.  I would have loved to, but unfortunately the sprinkler heads were right between us.  I was talking to Gil about when you've got such severe, large sprinkler heads on the edges of the greens, near the pin when it goes into the surrounds, I've seen some golf courses and some championship, they do Astroturf plugs where they put it in over the head.  Now obviously you can take it out when you irrigate the course at night.  But you can put    so now you could actually putt it over there.

But I hit the ball just long.  I was just longer on a lot of holes today.
KELLY ELBIN:  Questions?
Q.  Folks have said that you were maybe in more pain today than you've been in previous rounds, that you were hurting quite a bit out there today.
PETER JACOBSEN:  I was hurting today.  I was hurting.  I was feeling pretty good yesterday.  I was not feeling great today.  So that was one variable that I didn't need to deal with.  Plus we had big wind.  So, yeah, I just didn't have it today.
Q.  Can you talk about your second shot on 11?  You looked like you were maybe on the cart path, maybe half.  Could you talk about that.  Was there any ruling there?
PETER JACOBSEN:  No, I hit my tee shot to the right and I was on the cart path.  And the cart path there goes right between two mounds, and if I had to drop it one side or the other, I would have been on top of the mounds and probably would have had a severe ball above my feet.  And it was sitting clean on the cart path so I went ahead and hit it off there.  Tried to hit a cut.  I hit a great shot.  It hit on the edge of that left side of the green and it fell into that big hole left of the green.  I think there's sand down there, I'm not too sure, but it's some sort of a burial ground that is left of the green there.  And I hit a pretty good bunker shot, about 12 feet, which wasn't bad.  And I missed it.  But I got a nice beautiful scar on my Baffler.
Q.  You always have to survive a tough round in a Major championship to win.  Talk about how difficult it was, but you're only three shots back and still in red numbers, does that bode well for you?
PETER JACOBSEN:  It was the type of day that you just had to gut it out.  And again I played with Gil, which was fantastic and Brad Bryant, who is playing some of the best golf we're seeing out on the Champions Tour.  So I just had to be patient.  I knew it wasn't going to be a day of great shots and I knew it wasn't going to be a day of birdies.  This isn't the type of golf course, with this condition, that you can make a lot of birdies.  So I wanted to be just smart, make some pars.  As I said, I just kept hitting a lot of balls through the greens, chipped back, five, six feet, and I missed them.  So I really, as I said, I didn't really do anything that badly, I didn't do anything that well.
Q.  Are you taking prescription or over the counter pain medication?
PETER JACOBSEN:  I'm taking Aleve.
Q.  That's it?
PETER JACOBSEN:  That's it.
Q.  No steroids?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Nothing.  Nothing.  Aleve.
Q.  With Gil leading after the third round, is the answer to that as simple as he's got the local course knowledge on a day like today?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Without a doubt.  I said before the week started that it was going to be one of the Oak Tree Gang that was going to win.  Tewell, Edwards, Edwards, or Gil.  And obviously with the lead going into the last day, he's very comfortable on the golf course, he's playing well, he's hitting a lot of great shots.  Driving the ball well, he's putting well.  He's made, I played three rounds with him so far this week and he's made a bunch of clutch putts from eight to 10 feet.  So if it comes down to a clutch putt tomorrow for him to win on 18, I wouldn't bet against him.
Q.  Can you talk about how motivated you were to take off the shoes and get in the water over the par 3?
PETER JACOBSEN:  You know, I actually hit a pretty good shot.  I hit a 7 iron on number 4.  The wind is howling behind us.  And I was just hitting it to the middle of the green and I guess it, there's a tree there, I didn't realize it was there until my ball caught the tree, fell down in the bank and it was just on the edge of the water.

So I took my socks off, put my shoes back on, crawled back in there and just tried to get it on the green, which I did.  I hit a pretty good shot.  No, I wasn't motivated to go in that water at all.  But you get motivated when you can save a stroke.
KELLY ELBIN:  Peter Jacobsen, thank you very much.
PETER JACOBSEN:  Okay, thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT