SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2006
Peter Jacobsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KELLY ELBIN:  Peter Jacobsen, ladies and gentlemen, the leader in the clubhouse at this point in the second round of the 67th Senior PGA Championship.  Peter, bogey-free 3-under par 68 today for a 135 total.  Comments on your round.
PETER JACOBSEN:  Played very well today.  I got off to a good start.  Drove the ball well so far the two days.  It's important here because the surrounds of the greens are so difficult to get the ball up-and-down from that everything runs into a collection area.  So putting the ball on the green is important and I have done that really well.

I had three birdies today and actually struggled with my putting.  I had a couple of putts, I made -- well I'll run through my card.

No. 2, I hit a driver and a 9-iron to about three feet.  I made birdie there.

I missed about a five-footer on seven for birdie.

And I had about a 10-footer on nine that I missed.

And I missed about a four-footer on 10 for birdie.  So I was hitting the ball solidly.

Number 13, I hit a pitching wedge to about two feet.  That was a scary pin.  I think we got a group skin.  Flash, Morgan and I all played the hole in six.  So that was great.

16, I missed about a six-footer for birdie there that I just didn't read the break properly.

Then 18 I hit a driver and a 6-iron to about four, about five feet and made the putt there.

So when you miss putts, when you misread the break, you start questioning your stroke and that's an important thing not to do.  If you're hitting your spots and rolling the ball properly, then you've got to just suck it up to a misread and move on.
KELLY ELBIN:  Questions?
Q.  If there was any question about whether you were, your game was up to winning a Major, I think on 18, that's a pretty good shot.  6-iron into the wind?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Yeah, 6-iron into the wind.  I had 167 yards and I tried to just knock a 6-iron down.  I wanted to miss that pin long.  Long and right if you're going to miss that green.  With that pin.

Actually, I just turned it down and it just hung it right at the flag the whole way.  Landed about five feet short of the hole and rolled up.  That was a good shot.
Q.  Can you just talk about what the 68 says for the rest of your game if you say you struggled so much with the putter?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Well, when I say struggled with the putter, I think I struggled more with reading the greens, more than anything.  Because I felt like I was hitting good putts.  I was hitting the spots.  That's one of the things we talk about, my caddy and I, we talk about just hit your line, hit your spot, roll your putter or roll your ball and that's all you can do.

So I think struggling with my putter is not the right word.  I think struggling with reading the greens is probably a better term for it.
Q.  How much do you and Gil feed off each other when you're out there?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Well, we play, we played a lot of golf together in our, well my 30 years on TOUR.  And he's I think he's been out 32 years.  But as I said yesterday, he's a hometown hero here and he's a member.  He knows where to go.  He stands up there and he is, when you play a golf course a lot, you tend not to look at the problems, you tend to lack down the middle of the fairway, down the sprinkler line, at the flag, and he's putting the greens well.  Because he knows them so well.  So he's playing aggressive, he's playing very well.  He's driving the ball, he's driving, he's hitting the driver fantastic.

He's going to be a huge factor on the weekend, there's no doubt about that.
Q.  You were able to play part of the morning round with a little less wind, it's picked up now in the afternoon and it's going to really have it, and tomorrow it's supposed to be even more.  Talk about how that might affect rounds three and four?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Well, I think it's important when the wind blows here to put the ball in the fairway.  Because this is not a bump and run golf course.  If you look at just about every hole, you cannot run the ball in.  So I think a player who can control his iron play from the fairway or from the rough, keep it under the wind or work it left-to-right, right-to-left, with the wind, is going to have an advantage.  Because if you do put it in the rough, you're guessing on running the ball up.  It's not like a links course, not like a European course, where you can bank it off of the approaches.  You've got to carry it on to the green.  It got windy for us on, I would say about 8 today.  We got to about 8 or 9.  So we played the entire back nine in a pretty good breeze.
Q.  Doctor Gil's part of the Oak Tree Gang, not counting the Flounders, what gangs have you been associated with over the years?
PETER JACOBSEN:  I don't know.  I haven't really been in a gang.  Probably the Pacific Northwest Gang.  That would be Casey Martin, Bob Gilder, Mike Reid and myself.  Fred Couples.  But he denies that.  He grew up in Seattle but he claims Santa Barbara now.  He's in that upper tax bracket, as we all know.  Yeah, probably just the Pacific Northwest.
Q.  How do you compare the way you played today to the 67 yesterday?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Actually I think I played a little better today.  I hit, I drove it better, I hit crisper and better iron shots with a little bit more control.  And as I said, I just misread a lot of putts today.
Q.  Based on the fact that you misread putts and you're still where you are, you got to feel good, and we talked about that shot coming into 18 with the wind, that's a tough shot.  Does that mean you feel really good with the wind coming for the weekend?  Is your confidence there?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Yeah, I've never been concerned about playing in a lot of wind, because I feel like I've got a kind of a swing that I can cover the ball and control it and keep it down.

I have never been the kind of player that flips the club up in the air and shoots the ball up and gets it up too high.  If you do that, you're going to lose control in the wind.  So wind doesn't bother me.
Q.  Talking about your hip and your knee, have you had to compensate in your swing for those or is that a case where they hurt more when you're walking or doing other things?  Do they affect your swing?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Well, they can hurt when I swing too.  It just depends.  I got, when I left here yesterday I went straight home and I went to the pool over there at the Waterford Marriott, and I got up at five o'clock this morning and swam for about 45 minutes too.  So it's kind of, it's kind of a grab bag.  Some days it hurts when I swing and I'm just kind of compensating.  Others it doesn't.  But it pretty much, last four or five holes I get a little bit fatigued.  You'll see me stretching and doing a lot of crazy things out on the course the last four or five holes.
Q.  Does it hurt to walk?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Yeah, it hurts to walk.  I hobble around.  I look like I'm hobbling.
Q.  Walter Brennen?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Walter Brennen.  Yeah.
Q.  You get to play two rounds with Gil here, so you get a little, I guess, a little help from his course knowledge to some extent.  You guys both go low, so there's a chance you get to play with him again.  How much does that help you or does it?
PETER JACOBSEN:  I think it helps me a ton.  I saw that I was paired with Gil coming out the first two rounds, I felt that that was very much to my advantage.  Because as I said, he's played so many rounds of golf here, that he gets up on every tee and he knows exactly where he wants to go.  And he plays the lines that he wants to play.  Like the first hole, it's down the right side, down that tree line, with a 3-wood or a driver.

Well, that's something you learn real quickly you watch him do it and he putts it in the middle of the fairway every time you say, gee, I think I'll try that too.  So it's an advantage playing with Gil or David Edwards or Doug Tewell or anybody that plays here year in and year out.  Day in and day out.
KELLY ELBIN:  Peter Jacobsen, the leader at this point in the second round of the 67th Senior PGA Championship.
PETER JACOBSEN:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT