SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2006
Peter Jacobsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about your round today.
PETER JACOBSEN:  I played a very steady round today.  Three birdies, no bogeys, all pars.  And actually, I struggled with the putter today, I missed a bunch of putts that I felt like I had good chances to make, just hard reading the greens.  I'm not as familiar with the golf course as obviously Gil Morgan and some of the guys who live here, so I found myself questioning my reads.

I think it showed.  I missed about four putts under six feet, but I hit well and hit my line, but I just didn't read them properly.  But overall my game is good, I'm driving the ball well, hitting my irons reasonably well, and I've got the right speed on the putting greens.
Q.  It looks like you're dialed in on the tee shots and your middle irons and everything looks just so solid out there.
PETER JACOBSEN:  Well, thank you, I've been working very hard.  It's fun to play with somebody like Gil Morgan began, who not only knows the nuances of the golf course, he stands up there and drivers it right down the middle and doesn't give it a second thought because he's so familiar with it.  So I just try to follow what Gil's doing.
Q.  That last approach shot, what was the risk reward involved there?
PETER JACOBSEN:  One of the things that I looked at in the practice rounds was if the pin is left, you got to miss short.  And if the pin is right, you got to miss long.

So I actually took one extra club and knew it was playing uphill into the wind and I tried to play about a three quarter 6 iron.  And I hit a perfect shot.  If I was going to miss there, I was going to miss long on the green.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PETER JACOBSEN:  No, actually it landed about five feet short of the hole and trickled up pin high, about five feet.
Q.  That was the shot that, at the end of the day, right now, that makes you the leader.
PETER JACOBSEN:  Absolutely.  I would have been very happy if that ball had released to the back of the green.  Because, again, that's one ever those greens where you don't want to mess with that.  Making a birdie there is an absolute bonus.

I feel there are some holes here that you just can't mess around with.  And that's one of them.
Q.  You mentioned playing with Gil, it looked like the two of you have a pretty good energy I guess, would you talk a little bit about that and sort of the importance ever playing with a guy that you feel comfortable with.
PETER JACOBSEN:  Well, I've got great admiration for Gil and great respect.  And for his golf game, not only as a person, but as a player.  So whenever I have a chance to play with him, I know I'm going to have to play my best, because he's going to drive it down the middle of every fairway and knock it up close and have a lot of chances for birdie.

Especially playing here at Oak Tree, everybody's pulling for him.  And it's great to see, it's great to see a hometown guy and everybody just pulling him through.  In fact I mentioned that out there a couple times, I said, this is great, you're playing great, you're leading the tournament, and everybody's pulling for you.  So that does kind of help, that does carry you along.
Q.  Do you find that, I mean I know it's all about playing the course and you against the course, but do you find yourself sort of out of the could the corner of are eye watching a guy like that and trying to stick with him?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Absolutely.  Whenever you're playing with somebody who is close or in the lead, you always keep an eye on what he's doing and try and gain some positive energy from what he's doing.  The way that Gil plays is he plays aggressive and he plays the ball down the middle and at the pin every time.  So you just try to gain some perspective and watch and see how he plays the course.
Q.  Is it tougher to play here or against Kevin Costner?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Oh, beating Don Johnson and Kevin costner is easy, beating Gil Morgan is hard.  Plus, you can take a lot of different takes when you're on a movie set, here it's one take and you got to live with it.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
PETER JACOBSEN:  Well, I put it the other way, I would say take his knowledge and use it for me.  One of the things that I have noticed at some of the tee shots that I feel might be drivers, he's hitting 3 wood and vice versa.  So, again, there's a learning curve to all of this when we come to a championship venue like this that we haven't seen since 1988, at least for me, I haven't seen it since I played here during the PGA Championship.  So when I saw that I was paired with Gil, I actually thought I was very lucky, because I could kind of take a page from his book.
Q.  Do you hope you're paired together tomorrow?
PETER JACOBSEN:  I hope so.  I hope so.
Q.  You talked about some of the physical things you've been through.  When you played today, are you actually fighting through the pain?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Yeah, I get to the last four or five holes and my hip gets pretty painful.  I'm just stretching out there and trying to do what I can to finish them all.
Q.  Those other guys are going to see that you're on top of the leaderboard (Inaudible.)
PETER JACOBSEN:  Well, you never know, I feel very fortunate to be 7 under at this point.
Q.  Did you foresee you playing maybe this well on this course the way the practice rounds went, did you come out here and think that
PETER JACOBSEN:  Well, you never know, I know this is a very different golf course.  It's an exacting golf course.  You got to drive it in the fairway to be able to have a chance to attack the pins.  And if you struggle off the tee and have a lot of shots out of the rough, there's nowhere to run the ball in on these greens.  It's all forced carry.

So I think that the most important thing here is put your ball in the fairway and then have you a chance to make birdie.
Q.  Do you get the sense that you and Gil right now are at the top of the leaderboard, running away a little bit, do you
PETER JACOBSEN:  No, no, not at all.  We're a day and a half into this championship and anything can happen.  We could get somebody go crazy this afternoon and be leading the tournament at 10 or 11 under and you'll have to throw all those notes away.  You just never know.  And at the end of the day, we're only halfway there and as they say, the championship really doesn't start until the last day.  So it's important to stay focused, it's important to continue to do what you're doing right.  All the guys on the leaderboard have to remember that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT