U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2005
Peter Jacobsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What happened those last few holes?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  Yes, I was 2 under through 15, hit a good drive on 16, and it just got in the rough, and it looked like somebody stepped on it.  I only could hit it about 40 yards, made bogey.

17, I hit a 2 iron just to the right of the fairway and couldn't hit it, got it in the front bunker, blasted out about 20 feet and three putted, hit it about three feet past the hole and made double there.

Overall I didn't have a good putting day.  I had a fairly decent hitting day.  I had a bunch of chances to make putts and I didn't make them, so I have to go to the practice putting green right now.
Q.  What's the difference between your practice rounds and the greens that you saw today?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  Greens were a little bit slower today obviously because of the rain that we had yesterday, and that's what's tough.  When you prepare on a course, major championship especially when you get out and you play your Monday and Tuesday preparation and then Wednesday you get a lot of rain and you don't actually get out on the golf course because of the rain, and it slows everything up and softens everything up.  So we were leaving a lot of putts short today.
Q.  How's the jet lag?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  Jet lag, yeah.  I woke up this morning about 2:30.  I went to bed about 9:00 and woke up about 2:30.  As long as I get my four, five, six hours of sleep, I'll be all right.
Q.  How does the knee feel?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  It's okay.  It's all right.  I twisted it last week when I was playing at the Senior British, and I kept going.  It's tough for an old guy like me.
Q.  How is the support out there?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  It's great.  It's got a great feel.  Mike and I kept saying all the way around what a great feel, great gallery, great setup.  I enjoy the golf course.  I think it's a fun golf course, and the greens are everything here.  You have an uphill putt, you really have to whack it.  If you have a downhill putt you really have to be careful.  You have a lot of tests out here.
Q.  Is that going to change as the week goes on?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  I think they're going to get slicker.  If the weather stays the same, it's they're going to get harder and faster and it's going to make putting more of a factor.
Q.  When you go around today do you do a lot of analysis on the greens to see where they might put them?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  You do that Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, you start looking at pins and you put X's where you think they're going to go.  Knowing the USGA and the PGA TOUR knowing where they're going doesn't do you any good.
Q.  Greens slower than you might have expected?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  Yes, greens are slower because of the rain we had yesterday.  The greens are in perfect shape, perfect shape.  No complaints at all about the golf course, just about my finish.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 PETER JACOBSEN:  Yeah, I think as they move towards Sunday if the weather stays the same, no rain, let's hope, and the superintendent will dry them out and they'll get a little bit quicker and the pins will go in the corners and they'll be tough.
Q.  Is it an adjustment to play greens like this on an old style course as opposed to playing in Scotland?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  It's difficult an adjustment to playing in Scotland because the greens over there are slower because you've got a lot of wind.  These are magnificent greens.  I grew up on greens like this playing in Portland, Waverly Country Club in the great state of Oregon.  I'm familiar with greens like this.  You have to judge the elevation, whether you're going uphill or downhill.  It's tough.
Q.  Going from the first round to the second, did you see something out there yesterday where you're anxious to get back out there, your confidence level and that sort of thing?
 PETER JACOBSEN:  The golf course is playing pretty much as I expected it.  I just made two bad swings on 16 and 17 and made double and a bogey coming in, but overall the golf course is playing great.  I think you'll see some low scores, but you won't see the real low ones because these greens are hard to putt.
Q.  How do the greens compare to when you were here for media day?
PETER JACOBSEN:  I didn't play the course on media day.  I just drove around in a cart.
Q.  Aren't you used to playing this event in a little bit of physical discomfort?
PETER JACOBSEN:  Absolutely.  I was waiting for someone to say that.  It's a huge advantage.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT