U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2014
Peter Jacobsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PETER JACOBSEN: This golf course calls for precision.  This is not a recovery course.  This is meant for guys to hit the ball in the fairway, put it on the green and get out of there with your pars. Because if you miss greens, everybody in the field will tell you, it is just so difficult to get the ball up and down.Q. What is it about your game that seems to suit this course?PETER JACOBSEN: I don't know.  I think when you know your game plan -- I think it's very important for anybody when you play any golf course, whether it's Augusta National, Oak Tree or Pebble Beach, you got to have a game plan. My game plan is to play smart.  The U.S. Open is about pars.  When you think of the Masters it's about birdies and eagles.  The U.S. Open is about making pars and being smart and taking the elements out of play, taking the big number out of play. So, that's what you're supposed to do at a U.S. Open.Q. Trying to get out of work this weekend?PETER JACOBSEN: Yes, I am.  I like to be playing.  Golf is not work, golf is playing.Q. Little bit different 1st round than last year?PETER JACOBSEN: Last year in Omaha I got dehydrated.  Played 9 holes and had to withdraw.  It took me about a month to recover.  Coming into this week and I learned a really good lesson.  My doctor told me don't ever get dehydrated because it's very debilitating on your body. I walk around with water and Gatorade and lot of liquid, especially here when we know it's going to be humid and hot.Q. How big of role do you think the heat plays?PETER JACOBSEN: Weather is a factor.  It's an intangible that you have to deal with, whether you're playing at The Open Championship, which we're going to see next week, it could be cold and wet.  We play at Pebble Beach, when it's hot and dry or cold and wet.  The weather is a factor which you adjust your game plan accordingly. Where is Marco Dawson?  He needs to come in.  Thank you


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT