CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 16, 2003
Peter Jacobsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER:  It's a pleasure to have Peter Jacobsen 9-under par 63, breaking the course record for an opening round here.  Your first event on this course was in 1977.  Talking about the change you've seen in this place at this event.

PETER JACOBSEN:   The golf course has changed dramatically over my 27 years, but the tournament, like my ability hasn't changed.  The Jaycees do an amazingly great job, Judy Revels, the tournament chairman this year, and Mark Brazil has added life to the tournament.  I like coming back to the city and playing in this tournament.  The golf course is different in many ways.  Davis has retained a lot of the old course flavor, a lot of the difficulty that was here before, but he's also added quite a bit of variety; some holes are easier, some holes are tougher, and I think -- I'm not sure he set out to do that.  I haven't had a chance to ask him, but the golf course is more like a roller coaster ride; some holes are easy, some holes are hard, back and forth, back and forth, and that's exciting to a golfer.  Nobody wants to play the same hole over and over again.  It gets dull.  Forest Oaks is anything but dull now.  It's very exciting a lot of things can happen.


Q.   Already a career high of $1.1 million this year.  A win here would get you to $2 million and most likely would get you in the Top-30.  Did you come here with plans to play for the Tour Championship? 

PETER JACOBSEN:  When I won at the GHO earlier this year, that changed a lot of my focus.  Yes, you want to be able to be in the World Golf Championship events, you want to qualify for the major championship events, and I would include the Tour Championship as a major event on our Tour.  So any time you win and have a good year, you look even higher and you set your sights higher, yes.


Q.   Have you ever had a six-birdie start in a round before?

PETER JACOBSEN: No, I've never had six birdies in a row.  I had five birdies in a row last year in Vegas.  This is a personal best.


Q.   No. 6, you just missed birdie I think by an inch there.  You looked up.  Did you look at the leaderboard for the first time there and see where you were?

PETER JACOBSEN: No, I had been looking at it all day.


Q.   You're not one of those guys that doesn't like to look at it?

PETER JACOBSEN:   I don't get too nervous much any more.  I guess senses dull after a while.  I don't know.  Having been on the Tour for 27 years and kind of feeling like I'm part of the woodwork out here, part of the fabric, a good round or a bad round, it's still a great day.  I think playing the Tour is a privilege.  For me to have had a chance to have won seven tournaments out here and had chances to win others, but I've been successful in seven, and if I look at the leaderboard, if I'm on the board, great; if I'm not, I set the goal to get on the leaderboard.


Q.   You have that funny show.  You've been in movies.

PETER JACOBSEN:   I've had opportunities come along that I've taken advantage of.  I do the TV show called Plugged In and another called Peter and Friends, which is an interview format.  I've done a couple of movies.  We run the Champions Tour.  I have a management company that runs Tour events like this.  It's all golf.  It's all what I know.


Q.   Did you think you might not win again?

PETER JACOBSEN: Yes.  I didn't think I would win again on the PGA Tour.  I won in '95, and then in '96, '7,  '8, '9, I really struggled with my game.  I had hip surgery in 2001, so I felt there was a little glimmer of hope to win again.  My game has come around since that surgery.  I haven't had back trouble.  The hip surgery has taken a lot of pain away in my lower extremities.  That's the wonderful thing of age you get to look forward to, I'm sure some of you can attest to, things stop working the same way they used to when you were 25.


Q.   Where did you get the new putting stroke?

PETER JACOBSEN:  I've been working with Stan Utley.


Q.   He's working with Jay Haas?

PETER JACOBSEN:   Yes, he made me go to Stan.  Jay and I have been friends forever, came out of the same Tour School in '76.  We played at San Diego this year and he said, You're not putting well.  You're hitting the ball well, you need to see Stan Utley.  I went to see Stan and he's helped me amazing amount.


Q.   Has the success you've had this year caused you to rethink plans for the next couple of years, the Champions Tour versus the regular Tour?

PETER JACOBSEN: Yes, it has.  I'm going to be exempt out here on the Tour for the next couple of years and I don't know what I'm going to do.  I'd like to play on the PGA Tour as long as I'm competitive.  I do look forward to playing on the Champions Tour and seeing a lot of the old friends of mine that were my contemporaries.


Q.   What was the longest putt you made today?

PETER JACOBSEN:   Longest putt I made today was probably on the first hole, No. 10.  I hit a driver and 6-iron to the middle of the green and had about a 30-footer, knocked it in.  That was the longest putt I made.

CHRIS REIMER:  Does it give you confidence to shoot a round like that?

PETER JACOBSEN:   Yes, especially on a new golf course where the turf is young and squishy and you're going to get some different lies.  And the greens are also inconsistent because they're so new and so young, so yes, putting well takes a lot of pressure off your game.

Q.   What did you think of the green on No.  2 there?

PETER JACOBSEN:   The second green, that is an interesting green.  That is a very interesting green.


Q.   That was no slouch that you finished with on No. 9 either.

PETER JACOBSEN:   That is where Stan has helped me, being in control.  I don't hit them good all the time.  That's the tough thing about the game, but today I sure had the feel for the speed on the downhill putts.  I made about four or five of them.


Q.   On No. 9 when you hit it out of the bunker --

PETER JACOBSEN:   I drove it in the bunker and John Huston and Jerry Kelly hit huge drives down the middle and I got my 7-iron out and I turned to the people and I said, "A lot of young guys don't know how to birdie this hole.  You drive it in the bunker up against the lip, you hit 7-iron out, wedge on the green and make the putt.  That's how you birdie it.  That's a veteran move."  One thing I've learned over my 27 years, it's okay to talk to the spectators.


Q.   Does the Tour need more of that?

PETER JACOBSEN:   Last time I looked we're selling tickets at the door, just like the Cubs and the NHL and the movie theaters.  This is entertainment.

CHRIS REIMER:  Let's walk through your birdies.

PETER JACOBSEN:   First hole, driver 6-iron to 30 feet and I made it.

11, hit a good drive, 9-iron to about three feet, and I made the putt for birdie.

No.  2, I hit a 6-iron to about 20 feet, made the putt.

No. 13, I hit a 3-wood off the tee and a 3-wood on the green, and 2-putted about 30 feet, ran it up there to about a foot.

14, I hit a good drive and a 7-iron to about 15 feet, made it.

15, driver, 3-wood, short of the green, and had a little lob-wedge to eight feet, made that.

16, I hit a drive a little bit left side of the fairway, 3-iron to the front of the green.  My first putt from about 50 feet, I left it about 5 feet short, and I hit a putt and it did a horseshoe and came right back at me.  It did a big lipout.  I threw my putter a 100 yards.  I was so mad.  I just wasn't getting any breaks.  And I thought, what is going on with me today.

17, I hit a 3-iron, the ball landed -- got a great bounce, landed just on the front part of the green, went forward and went up to about 15 feet and I made that.

18, good drive and a wedge to about 10 feet, missed it.  And again, I was like, why me.

No. 1, I hit a good drive and a sand wedge to about 15 feet, made it.

It's getting boring, isn't it?  

No.  2, I hit my drive to the right, hit a 3-wood short of the green, and hit a sand wedge and tried to run it through the valley of sin there on the second green and got it up by the hole, and it came all the way back, had about a 50 footer.  And I ran it up there like that, a tap in, which was great.  That was a turning point, to be able to 2-putt from a really tough green.

No. 3, I hit a good drive.  I hit a 7-iron in the bunker, short left, blasted it out to about a foot.  It was a good bunker shot.

Four, I hit a 4-iron just on the back fringe, two putted.

No. 5, 3-wood and a 60-yard wedge to about 12 feet, made it.

No.  6, hit a good driver and an 8-iron, 25 feet, 2-putt.

No. 7, I hit a 3-wood off the tee and a sand wedge to about two feet, made that.

No. 8, I tried to -- I hit a 3-iron long and left of the green, and a chipped it to about six feet and I missed it. 

And then 18, I tried to teach the young kids how to do it.  Drove it in the fairway bunker, laid it up, hit a wedge on there, made about a 15-footer.


Q.   The first six birdies, did you start thinking 59 or did you take it out of your mind?

PETER JACOBSEN: No, I was thinking I'm 6-under after six, a good chance I'm going to have a round of 64, 63.  If you can get to 10-under with four or five holes to play, yes.  That's a tough number to shoot.


Q.   Did your tee ball on 17 hit a sprinkler head or something?

PETER JACOBSEN: No, I think it probably hit  -- the golf course is new.  I was trying to hit it into the bank of the hill, and it hit and it did jump to the right, and I looked up there and I thought it was a sprinkler head.  It wasn't.  It was probably just a piece of sod or piece of grass.  The golf course is hard in some places and soft in others. 

Let me say this:  The Tour was thinking about maybe not playing here for a year and letting it grow in.  I'm really glad we came here to play.  The golf course is in great shape, for the weather that you've had here.  I'm exciting about the future of the tournament, very excited about it.


Q.   How old is Jay?

PETER JACOBSEN:   I think Jay is older by three months or something, but he looks so much older than me, doesn't he?  Don't I look like 48.  His two boys are in college and he has got three daughters still at home.


Q.   Your kids are out of the house?

PETER JACOBSEN: Yes, but they're going to come back, I know.  I know they're coming back sometime, probably in December.

CHRIS REIMER:  You made it all through your round.  The short-term memory is still there.

PETER JACOBSEN:   There are a lot of things that have gone, but not my ability to remember and my ability to talk.  I can still do that.  I can still ramble on.


Q.   After your back surgery --

PETER JACOBSEN:   Hip surgery.


Q.   Hip surgery, and this beautiful round you shot today, how do you feel about the next three days?

PETER JACOBSEN:   Fabulous.  I feel great about it.  I feel like I'm swinging pretty well.  I've been working hard on my game.  I guess after having been out here on Tour so long, I know you can play a good first round and not even be in contention come the weekend.  So the key for me tomorrow is to go out and put another good round on top of the 63 and put myself in contention for the weekend.  There's probably somebody in this tournament that's going to shoot 70 today, Davis Love shot 70, who could come and win the tournament.  One round does not a tournament make, but it sure helps.


Q.   But with your personality, it appears that you don't play all that serious.  I know you're focusing, but it appears that you're playing relaxed. 

PETER JACOBSEN: Yes, I grew up really admiring people like Trevino and Chi Chi Rodriguez and Fuzzy Zoeller and Arnold a lot of players that appreciate what they do. I appreciate that I do this for my living.  I appreciate when somebody buys a ticket and comes out and watches us play.  It's a game.  We're playing a game.  It's not going to ruin my life if I have a bad shot.  It's not going to change my life if I have a good round.  It's a privilege to be able to do this.


Q.   We're glad you're here.

PETER JACOBSEN:   I could should 76, I could shoot 66, but that's just the way it is. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT