NBA 2K LEAGUE DRAFT
March 5, 2019
Samuel Salyers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Samuel Salyers was selected by Warriors Gaming with the No. 2 overall pick in the 2019 NBA 2K League Draft. His gamer tag is Gradient.   
 Q.  Are you ready for your entire life to change maybe in the next -- in the coming years?  Are you ready for that?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: I am ready.  It's been crazy to think about, yeah, how life can change, moving out to a new area for the first time, working with the NBA really.  So I'm excited for it to happen for sure.   
 Q.  I remember last year when the No. 1 pick because actually I know you guys are so competitive, and the No. 2 draft said actually I think I'm going to be the No. 1, I should be the No. 1.  Do you have that same mentality?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: I do think I'm the best player, but the No. 1 pick is my good friend, so I'm not going to say that, but I definitely think I'm the best player in the draft.   
 Q.  How would you describe the relationship between you and the players from the draft?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: A lot of them are good friends.  The 2K community, they're all close-knitted.  On the court is really competitive, like you said, but off the court everyone is -- most people are cool with each other and want to be teammates and stuff like that.   
 Q.  Do you remember the first day that you started playing video games?  What was that like?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: The first day I started was young.  I was with my dad.  He got me into video games with sports, and I was young with him, and I just knew I loved it, so I just kept playing it from when I was like five probably up until where I am now.   
 Q.  Have you ever played those video games like Pac-Man, like easy stuff for you?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: Yeah, I've played them a little bit, but I'm more a sports game kind of guy.   
 Q.  What kind of sports?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: NBA obviously, and then I love the football games and the MLB games.   
 Q.  Are you good at any --  
SAMUEL SALYERS: Yeah, I'm good at all of them, yeah.   
 Q.  Football and baseball?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: Mm-hmm.   
 Q.  How did you get into 2K?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: It was my dad.  He's a huge basketball fan, and I think around 2K09 or 10.  He got me the older ones, but that was when I could start taking it serious like 2K10, so he got me that one, and I just couldn't get off of it.   
 Q.  Which players does he root for, your dad?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: He rooted for the Chicago Bulls and Michael Jordan.  He's a big Bulls fan.  He's older.   
 Q.  How about you?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: I'm a big [Miami] Heat fan.  I'm a big Warriors fan now, but I'm a big Dwyane Wade fan, too.   
 Q.  Do you guys ever argue with each other, like oh, who's better?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: Yeah, we definitely do.  We argue who's better and who's worse all the time.   
 Q.  Your dad was good at video games?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: He's not great at them.  He's just a big sports fan, too, so he got me into them and got me playing them, and he would always play with me and I would always beat him by a ton, but he would always play with me to try to get me good and have fun.   
 Q.  What would you say are the skills required to be a great player at NBA 2K?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: You've got to have the mentality for sure because it's a lot of long hours, long days, long nights, sometimes staying up until 4:00, waking up at 7:00.  Just putting the hours in and then having the determination and just the IQ of basketball and 2K IQ to know what's good, what's not, where to be, stuff like that.   
 Q.  When it's not in a tournament, can you describe the practice?  Is it mostly you playing games against other people, or is there like a specific kind of training that you're doing?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: Yeah, we just play games as much as we can against like other top teams and good players.  We'll type out match up or let's match up or we'll just search and try to play against the best just to improve our games.   
 Q.  How old are you?  
SAMUEL SALYERS: I'm 19 years old.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT