WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2016
Dustin Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. KYRGIOS/D. Brown
  6‑7, 6‑1, 2‑6, 6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. Nick got pretty upset in the press conference just now, some of the questions, journalists talking about his behavior. What did you make of his kind of attitude?
DUSTIN BROWN: To be honest, like I said, people are asking me. I'm trying to do my job out there, trying to play tennis. It's the same thing when you're playing certain players. You know exactly what you're going to get. 
We didn't have a problem, I mean, problem with each other. Obviously here and there we both thought that the ref didn't do a good job. The one ball that Nick got definitely didn't bounce twice. And my serve, in my opinion, was this much above the net, so also no reason to call a net there. 
Sometimes guys make bad decisions. Whatever he got upset about later on, I'm trying to continue to finish playing the match and trying concentrate on myself. Can't be worrying about what he's cussing about or who he's being upset about. 
If it has something to do with me, then I need to deal with it. But there was no problem between me and him. As you saw when the match was finished, there was no issue. All of that has nothing to do with me. 
It's the same thing back in the day when McEnroe was playing. You knew exactly what you were going to get. If something happen, he could go nuts or he couldn't or whatever. But that has nothing to do with me. 
I'm pretty sure everyone that knows Nick, knows Nick is a great tennis player. You know that if certain things happen and there are a few bad call, I mean, all of us have gotten upset on the court already for bad calls, especially in certain moments. 
And like I said, on the other side, I think I'm almost close to 10 years older. I don't know. I was definitely not any better or worse at 21. The guy is 18 in the world. The guy is 21. Let the guy play tennis. I'm pretty sure in a few years, he will also have that sorted and then he's probably going to be even better. 
Besides that, I don't have anything else to say or that I have anything to worry about.

Q. The crowd clearly loved the match. Disappointing that you lost it, but how enjoyable was it to play against Nick today?
DUSTIN BROWN: It was a very enjoyable match, even though there was ups and downs. Like I said, both of us came out. We both knew what we were going to get. Some points he was playing better; some points I was playing better. It was a very close match. 
I think each set, there were one or two points. As I said earlier, in that service game when the rain delay came, could have been Love‑40. I had game point, which I didn't make. You always have to give the other person credit that he can play tennis. 
At that point, I hit a good serve, good volley. It was deuce. And then those two points basically decided the fifth set. Because, I mean, I went for second serve, that ball could have framed it out and he ended up framing it somewhere in the court, made it very difficult for me to volley the ball. So I tried to go for my shot which I wanted to play and I missed it.
The next one was a good return from him. Normally when I make a good serve, I'm somewhere around 90%. There it was three first serves basically and I lose two points out of three, which doesn't happen that often. 
Afterwards, I don't really think I had any chances. He served very well. 15‑30, but the serve was 130 miles an hour and trying to guess and being there and just had my racquet on it, but it was that fast that it's tough to control. Most guys can't even serve 130.
Besides that, I mean, did my best. Nothing to be upset about. Obviously would have liked to win, but same as he wanted to win. In our sport there is no draw. That's what it is. 
Could have lost first round against Dusan and I ended up winning in five sets. I'm pretty sure he wasn't happy about that either. That's tennis.

Q. I think it was in the third set, you went through him quite easily, quickly. Did you feel the game was going your way at that stage?
DUSTIN BROWN: It's the best‑of‑five‑set match. Obviously that set was going quickly, but I knew that you had to win at least one more. Obviously in that part of the match I was favorite, two‑sets‑to‑one up. But on the other side, same thing against Dusan, he was two‑sets‑to‑one up, and he was probably the favorite to win at that point. 
But that's the special thing about slams and best‑of‑five. Doesn't stop right there and you have to keep going. 
In the fourth set, I think I had a chance here and there, especially because I think I was returning well, he wasn't serving as well. It was 15‑30, and I didn't make that point. He played a very good point. 
Afterwards, the serve clicked back on. The game where he broke me, he returned well and hit few good passing shots. I maybe missed a volley, which also happens. Obviously I'm not going to make every volley. That's it, basically.

Q. You were upset with the umpire on a couple of calls and we have talked about that. Do you find that distracting when stuff like that happens?
DUSTIN BROWN: Not anymore. I have been on the tour long enough. I know how much I can let myself go. Sometimes it's even good to vent, to not keep it in. 
I know exactly how far I can go before it starts messing with my tennis. But that's why I said, I'm 31, he's 21, I think. I mean, you learn over the years. 
I'm pretty sure that a few times in my career, I also went overboard with stuff like that. It started messing with my tennis. Yeah, it doesn't happen anymore. 
Besides that, I tell the referee what I think about that decision and I keep playing.

Q. You have seen a lot of guys in your career. What makes him special? What makes him stand out when you're playing him, what he can do that maybe other guys can't do?
DUSTIN BROWN: I'm pretty sure his serve. I mean, when the serve is on, you basically have no chance. Even his second serve is pretty big. Yeah, also when you're playing Isner, Karlovic, same kind of thing. Obviously he's a little shorter, but his serve from the speed‑wise probably bigger. They have more angle. But makes it very easy for him, especially on other surfaces where it's not as fast, to pressure the guys on the return. He can go for his shots.
Suddenly when you're serving that second serve at 30‑All, then you feel the extra pressure because you're like, Okay, if I get broken here, this could very well be the set. That's what happened. 
It was 4‑3. Broke me, and I basically had no chance after that.

Q. I think it was the between‑the‑legs lob or dropshot. Dropshot. It was one of the moments in the match that really stood out. Where do you rank that in your specialist shots, your trick shots?
DUSTIN BROWN: I don't know.

Q. Run of the mill for you?
DUSTIN BROWN: I had a few lately. It's not exactly that I have a ranking in my head. I had a good approach. I came to the net and I thought I would have the easy volley and ended up hitting the net cord and coming towards my body. 
Obviously there is many ways I can try and do it. For me in that moment, the same as his match against Stepanek where the ball came to him and he decided to hit it through the legs, I did the same. I hit a winner. 
At the end of the day, you only get one point for it either way. I could have also stopped... 

Q. Run of the mill for you?
DUSTIN BROWN: I think I have hit better balls. Obviously it was a nice one, but there have definitely been better ones lately. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT