WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2016
Dustin Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. BROWN/D. Lajovic
  4‑6, 6‑3, 3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. That was quite a battle. Talk about the match. 
DUSTIN BROWN: Yeah. I mean, Dusan obviously didn't have as many grass court matches before as me. So on paper, it might have seemed that I'm going to be a clear favorite going into the match.
At the end of the day, there is no easy matches out there. Dusan is a very good player. His coach Sascha knows me very well. Seen me play a bunch of matches. Obviously he was going to get him ready really well for this match.
In the beginning there was not a lot of rhythm for me volleying. Returns were going all over the place, and then suddenly he started connecting a few. I barely hit any volleys. And even when I hit good ones he was ready for the short balls and passed very well.
Like I said in the last couple of matches the most important was just to stay calm and keep playing, knowing, this is my surface, that I can win this match no matter how long it goes. Just try to concentrate on the stuff I wanted to do out there.

Q. What are your thoughts about Nick Kyrgios' style of play and the challenge of playing him?
DUSTIN BROWN: To be honest, I didn't worry about that too much. I just got off this match half an hour ago. Obviously I knew if both of us win, we could play each other.
But, you know, we played IPTL together, he's a really nice guy. We are friends. We will go out and have fun and play good tennis. Besides that, not try and worry too much about it. 
That's in two days. Right now just get ready for my doubles, which probably will be tomorrow with Struff. Yeah, just like I said every day, go out there and try and do what I want to be doing out there. Concentrate and try and give my best, not try to worry too much about my opponents.

Q. For fans who are looking forward to that match because of your flare and the styles of play of yours, what would you say are the biggest similarities and differences between you?
DUSTIN BROWN: Basically same answer just as now. I try not to worry too much about my opponents. It's not my job to try and describe how my opponents play all of that. 
Obviously we all know he has a big serve and big forehand. Besides that, we are a gonna go out there and have a good match. He knows what he needs to do and I know what I need to do well. Besides that, I'm trying not no worry too much about it. 
Like I said, I just got off the court from this match, try to get some food, go to the physio after the press. That's a few days down the road. I don't need to worry about Nick Kyrgios right now.

Q. You had a crazy qualifying doubles match. We haven't spoken after that. Just talk about what that experience was like. You spent quite a bit of time on court. Are you feeling fresh?
DUSTIN BROWN: Yeah, I feel very fresh. I mean, that was obviously, I don't know, Friday. I had a few days in between to just practice and go to physio, get my body ready. 
Obviously was a wildcard, which was unbelievable news for me, helped me a lot to get ready. I decided not to play Nottingham. I played a lot of grass court matches before playing the challengers and then playing Halle. I don't think that ever before I have had that many grass court matches coming into Wimbledon. 
It was nice to use the week to come in here to practice and get ready. Obviously it was five sets today, but on the other side it was 2 hours and 8 minutes. It wasn't that bad on the body. 
With the match with Struff, we had two tough ones now, 8‑6, 15‑13. A lot of those is just little things in the matches, few points here and there. Could have obviously gone the other way. 
We were down 10‑9. They were serving for the match. Same like today. Go out there and believe that you can win the match, concentrate on, focus on the things you want to be doing well. Me and Jan have a lot of fun on the courts. He's a good friend, also outside of the court. 
Even when we're not at tournaments, we talk and we do things together. It's nice being out there with him. Definitely looking forward to that match.

Q. To what degree do you get to follow the Euros? What are your thoughts on Germany's team?
DUSTIN BROWN: If we're not on the court and home, we watch a little bit. Yesterday obviously everybody saw the Iceland stuff. Yeah. I'm not the biggest football fan. Soccer, whichever you want to call it. 
Obviously it's always great when Germany wins, but I also watched Game of Thrones yesterday, which was more important for me. (Laughter.)
 Q. Have you followed at all Marcus Willis' story? Do you know him at all?
DUSTIN BROWN: No, I don't. After he qualified, the first time I heard about it and that he played prequallies. I saw a lot of stuff yesterday reposted and retweeted a lot of stuff. Me, personally, with my history, I love a story like that. A guy like that deserves it, playing already six matches coming through.
And I hope his body is keeping up and he will be able to have a very good match against Fed, I think he's playing? 
He wanted to play at Wimbledon and now he's going to play on Centre Court against Fed most likely. Yeah, hats off to him. Been a great run so far and hopefully he can have a great match out there.

Q. What are the Wimbledon towels like for you? How often do people ask you to bring them back a towel?
DUSTIN BROWN: Well, I mean, you have a lot of friends. Either you pay £40 for it or take them off the court and give them to your friends. That's the answer to that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT