U.S. OPEN
September 11, 1994
Brad Gilbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Since you have started working with Andre how have you changed his game and mental outlook and when? 

BRAD GILBERT:  We started Key Biscayne, so, in March. He called me up on the phone.  He said he wanted to talk to me.  We had dinner in Scotsdale a couple of times.  Then he called me at Key Biscayne, and said, go out to this place and then get on a boat and put your car out there, and I was like," geez, this is weird." We went out to Fisher Island; went to dinner; started talking, and he asked what I thought.  I said I think I can really help you.  We started the next day. 


Q.  Can you talk about his mental state at that time, and what he really wanted to get? 

BRAD GILBERT:  I told him -- I mean, for me, I felt like that especially here and the last few weeks, don't play the score, don't worry, I said.  When we got here, you can't win seven matches at once. You got to start by winning the first game, the first set; the first match.  Don't worry about anybody else, continue to hit the ball and play as well as you are playing and good things are going to happen.  He has been really practicing well.  I think, what happened in New Haven maybe happened for a reason.  We went back to Vegas for 7 days; I had a really good seven days of practice.  When I got here, I told a lot of people I thought Andre was going to win this event; he is really fresh and his mind is eager and the draw was really favorable to him playing well. 


Q.  What was the first thing you think you told him that clicked in his mind? 

BRAD GILBERT:  You know, I told him I thought he was -- a lot of guys were playing -- were getting away with murder chipping balls back in play; he'd have guys dead pinned in the corner; he wasn't coming to net.  I said, you can come in 20 to 25 times a match, and if you can't put away high volleys, you don't deserve to win the match.  He looked at me, said, yeah, that is a pretty good point.  I feel like if you got a guy pinned, and you can't put away a high volley, you are not going to win a lot of matches. 


Q.  What did you talk to him about as far as your serving strategy today? 

BRAD GILBERT:  Well, I mean, in Vegas, we worked on his serve, working on that a lot.  Too often he would go up to the plate and roll at his serve.  I told him to make a high percentage of first serves because Stich is going to try and chip and charge on your second serve.  That is what he wants to happen and he doesn't like the ball up.  When you are under pressure, take a little bit of time; make sure to get that ball above his waist. 


Q.  Did you add that kick serve to his game? 

BRAD GILBERT:  No, he had that. 


Q.  He is moving it around. 

BRAD GILBERT:  I think he used to just hit the kick too often; didn't hit the slice; didn't hit the flat one.  I think that he is turning into like a good spot pitcher on his serve.  The thing -- you got to work the four corners.  I think he was too predictable on his serves.  A lot of times he would just roll his serve in.  He didn't play the score well on his serve.  A lot of times when he was up 30-Love he would roll his serve in and one thing I thought was kind of annoying, he is down Love-30 and he is trying to hit an ace.  You have to let -- 40-Love and 30-Love is when you have to be going for the 117 up the middle. 


Q.  He has got a lot of new strokes, I mean, like curve balls and changeups; got the loop.  Did you give him the loop shot? 

BRAD GILBERT:  I mean, everything he has got, man, probably had since he has been a little kid; father taught him how to play.  I am helping him work with what he has got; haven't change any strokes.  I feel like if you go out and play 100% of your capabilities with bad strategy, you know, you will win some matches.  If you go out and play with 60 percent of your capabilities with great strategy you win a lot of matches. 


Q.  Previous coaches talked about strategy and bad strategy.  It didn't click.  Why does it click with you? 

BRAD GILBERT: .  I don't know.  Maybe I am a good coach.  (gilbert winks) I don't know.  I think a lot of times, I talk really simply to him.  And I am not that far removed from the Tour.  I am still playing.  We have played nine times.  I think he respects the way I play; that I tried hard for every match I played, and I feel like that maybe he thought since I played all these guys that he is playing so I know what I am talking about. 


Q.  Are you in this for the longhaul, Brad? 

BRAD GILBERT:  I certainly hope so.  I haven't gotten any notice in the mail that I am not coming back. 


Q.  Are you a coach now for life? 

BRAD GILBERT:  I don't know for life. 


Q.  Not with him, but in general? 

BRAD GILBERT:  Yeah, I am still a player too.  But hopefully, my hip will be better in the fall; I will be playing.  I will be playing/coach (gilbert winks). 


Q.  Did you have a contract with him? 

BRAD GILBERT:  Do I have contract?  Is that important to you? 


Q.  I wonder, you know, that there is something out there like -- 

BRAD GILBERT:  You know what?  You know what my wife said:  If it wasn't meant to be, it wasn't meant to be and if it was meant to be it was meant to be.  So a contract isn't going to separate that. 


Q.  What were your initial impressions of him and how has that changed over the years since you have worked with him? 

BRAD GILBERT:  I saw him play like in Stratton Mountain in 86 when he beat Kriek and Mayotte, and he already had crowd presence then and I knew that he was doing some special things back then; by taking the ball on the rise and putting guys under pressure.  I always thought he was one of the greatest hitters of the ball I have ever seen. Maybe didn't have the greater strategy. 


Q.  Tell us about the earring and now the hair? 

BRAD GILBERT:  I think it motivates him a little bit. I think he is trying to change me.  Next thing I will know I will be wearing a pony tail (gilbert winks). 


Q.  As much as you helped him technically with his game, he talks about how you helped his confidence.  What do you tell him on daily basis? 

BRAD GILBERT:  I always feel like for me that I am a pretty confident person off the court, on the court.  I feel like that you play your presence. I mean, the way he hits the ball, he should be confident.  And he should be confident himself and I have told him after this-- I mean you should be able to look in the mirror; be happy for yourself.  I helped him, but he was the one that made it happen.  And he got to believe that he is the one that made it happen. 


Q.  He said that he was a bit difficult to be around in the last couple of weeks, he was a bit touchy, did you find that-- I mean, away from the court, you know, he was. . . . 

BRAD GILBERT:  Obviously,, you know, he was a little edgy about what happened in New Haven.  It was great.  We got away for seven days in Vegas; practiced really hard and I am telling you today was like a mild day compare to seven days of wind that we had in Vegas; 105 everyday and super windy.  We practiced two o'clock and super windy conditions for seven days.  We got here; he is hitting the -- people were saying it was windy; geez, it felt good. 


Q.  About Australia, he said you wouldn't have it any other way.  Did it take much talking to get him to agree? 

BRAD GILBERT:  When he walked over, I told him when he was -- I said, Australia is next.  He looked at me and he said, typical; I felt like this one is great, but Australia is, you know, right on the horizon.  I told him he could win 3 of the 8 Slams. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT