U.S. OPEN
September 5, 1992
Brad Gilbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   Is this what you were--

 BRAD GILBERT:  I just was-- I got on a roll.  I was a little
fortunate that, you know, when I broke him, I won 4 points in
a row, and then I served really good in the breaker.  Then one
thing kind of just led to a landslide, a little bit.

 Q.   Have you ever had two shutouts and tiebreakers back-to-back?

 BRAD GILBERT:  Tell you truth, I have been playing 11 and a half
years.  I have played tiebreaker in the fifth in my whole career.
 I think it's about the only  place that they do.  I had a couple
of matches extend past 6-All.  It is nice to be on the winning
end of it, because it is ugly to be on the receiving end.

 Q.   How do you stay relaxed?  You were saying-- how do you
stay relaxed in the closing stages of these kinds of matches?
 

 BRAD GILBERT:  I think I'm too tired not to be relaxed. But,
you know, I feel like if I stayed positive, and just keep the
ball in play that, you know, a lot of times people can get nervous
and you know, in this situation.  So it was best to keep a lot
of balls in play when it's in the tiebreaker, but if you are playing
against somebody that is giving you a lot of heat or taking it
to you, it is difficult.  I feel it is best for me-- you know,
in a situation like, to keep a lot of balls in play and make the
other guy win it.

 Q.   Ho said that when he saw he had to play you, he felt
that was a good draw.  He could have gotten an Agassi or somebody.
 Then he said you really have the ability to turn the screws.
 What would your response to that be?

 BRAD GILBERT:  He is a good young player.  Before the match,
I had never seen him hit a ball.  I mean, it is tough to play
guys like that.  I have played three, four weeks, some younger
guys that you haven't seen.  You are not sure what to expect.
 And you know, it is tougher to play a guy that-- when everyone
expects you to win and if you lose, everybody says, well, you
know, I mean, what happened?  Those are the tough matches to play.
 When I played a Stich, if I lose, everyone expected it.  If I
win, they don't expect it as much.  Those are the tougher matches
to play.  Now, I mean, the next match against Volkov is a great
opportunity for both of us.

 Q.   I mean, you came in here not seeded.  You have been here
so many times a seeded top player.  What were your ideas of what
might happen here or --

 BRAD GILBERT:  I actually-- I looked at the first couple of rounds,
I felt like I played Steve Ryan.  I felt like I could get by him
because he had beaten him.  I knew Stich would be a tough match,
but I had beaten him the only time we played on hardcourt.  I
knew he wasn't playing that well.  I felt like it was a good opportunity,
and you know, I figure you just got to go out and look at one
match at a time.  I can't be like Courier or Sampras or Agassi
and kind of study the draw.  And right now I'll just try to get
by Volkov and stay in the event for a couple of days longer.

 Q.   Do you think you are still that dangerous a floater that
people still hate to play?  Especially now coming in as a surprise?

 BRAD GILBERT:  I guess, Rino Tommasi, he doesn't think I have
a lot left in my game, because he said that I was no longer--
I was no longer a threat.  He said that Stich in straight sets--
he is one that doesn't think I have a lot of game left.

 Q.   What do you think?

 BRAD GILBERT:  I still feel like I am playing as well now. You
know, I am as in good shape and my mind is as good as it has ever
been.  I am not-- probably not hitting the ball as best.  I am
still competing hard and I still, you know, there is parts of
my game that can get better.  I certainly don't feel when they
talk about guys losing a step.  I'd heard Connors saying last
night that Lendl lost a step.  I certainly feel like for me at
31 that I haven't lost a step.  I feel better now than when I
turned pro, 11 and a half years ago.

 Q.   Do you think your-- at this point, your game is a little
better?

 BRAD GILBERT:  I certainly like to see myself get in the top
ten.  I am not thinking unrealistically that that can't happen.
 I think it still can.  If I work on a few parts of my game, I
have a lot of goals to get better.

 Q.   These back-to-back tiebreak wins, where does that fit
in your whole career?  Is it one of the big highlights?

 BRAD GILBERT:  Let's see how-- what I am like in four days later.
 Now I just need to capitalize on the situation, and you know,
see if I can make some good things happen.  I feel like you are
only as good as your last match. Hopefully, when I play Volkov
in a couple of days, I'll raise my game to another level and win
my match.

 Q.   You lost twice to Volkov.  Do you know what to expect
from him?

 BRAD GILBERT:  He is one of those guys that, if he wakes up on
the right side of the bed he is really dangerous.  Then, if he
wakes up on the wrong side of the bed, he can go out and lose
a match 6-1, 6-1.  A lot of times, the way he plays, he is such
a streaky player.  He plays such an unusual game.  He's very deceptive,
a little-- like, he moves awfully well for a guy six foot four.
 If I can serve well, and I can return serve well, I feel like
I can turn this match around.  We haven't played on hardcourt.
 He beat me once on grass and last year on supreme, and I feel
like this is my best surface and this a good opportunity for me
and certainly, you know, I am not overlooking him by any means,
because I haven't beaten him, but I am looking forward for the
opportunities, that is for sure.

 Q.   At the start, did you get any sort of vibes or anything
like that?  Something good is definitely going to happen after
you win two matches back-to-back like this?

 BRAD GILBERT:  Hey, if you want to quote it and say it, sure,
why not.  I mean, for me, right now, I just feel like I am still
in the event, and hopefully I am going to put it to good use.
 I don't equate, like, okay, since I won 7-6 in the third, 7-6
in the third, okay, that means, you know, you can't practice or
you go out to expect to win.  Those two matches are history. 
I mean, Volkov doesn't care that I won two matches 7-6 in the
fifth.  He is going to out and play his game and I am going to
play mine, and hopefully, I'll take him down hard.

 Q.   You have done some broadcasting-- you have six saving--
six match points in two matches.  What does that feel like?  Can
you describe it?

 BRAD GILBERT:  I have blown some opportunities.  You know, in
my career, you know, and you know it is nice, because it is more
of a boost than any part of your game.  Especially, like, I don't
feel like I was playing the best tennis of my career over the
last month.  And when you can win a match that you felt like that,
maybe you didn't deserve to win. Maybe that could take you to
another level.  A lot of times you see a guy like-- look, Sampras
in Indianapolis, he was down three match points first round against
Woodforde. My coach is-- said, watch, he will win the tournament
now. And sure enough, he did.  That happens a lot.  A lot of times
a good player escapes early-- and like, Becker, when he won here
he escaped early.  That happens a lot in big tournaments where
a guy escapes, he wins that match, maybe he shouldn't have, but
he wins it because maybe he is inexperienced, or maybe he gutted
it out.  But then, all of a sudden that seems to take you to the
next level.  And I see a lot of younger kids, when they win a
close match like this they said, geez I'm playing so bad, they
go out and don't take advantage of it.  I think that's-- the most
important thing is to take advantage of the situation that maybe
you were out of.

 Q.   How has the trends toward all the power in today's game
affected your game?  Has it made it harder to be the counter-punch
or whatever-- however you want to--

 BRAD GILBERT:  Tell you truth, I still feel like guys aren't
crushing it, I mean, obviously Ivanisevic can crush a serve, but
not one guy that I have seen in top 20s playing with a wide body--
but, I mean, and we have been playing with mid-size graphites
for 15 years.  I haven't seen it-- until I can see somebody come
in and play with wide body dominating, then I will think it is--
I think the wide bodies suck.  You can't control them at all.
 So everybody I see is playing with, like, a regular graphite
racket, and until-- but in six years, the 12-year-olds that are
playing now with the wide bodies, they will learn to grow up with
them.  Then, the game, maybe, is going to change.  For right now,
I don't see any of the young guys-- top guys playing with a wide
body.

 Q.   So you don't see a change that everyone else is talking
about?

 BRAD GILBERT:  Everyone else is talking about this power. But,
hell, Andre has been winning this year, Courier has been winning,
Chang has been winning.  You see a lot of guys-- like I saw a
final in-- Mancini and Chang, both of them don't come in.  So
obviously, guys are-- you know, guys are making some adjustment.
 I think everything comes down to, the common sense, I think.
 If the tournament is going to play, like, on fast courts, let's
use heavy balls.  And if we going to play, like on slow red clay
courts, let's use faster balls.  They have got to concentrate,
make sure the surface and balls don't-- aren't the same.  You
don't want to go play on a fast supreme court with lightening-fast
balls.  You want to play with heavy balls so you could see it
going in-- Ivanisevic-- to play some shots, but then you don't
want to play on clay-- red clay and see the guys play with cantaloupe
balls, because all of a sudden it's boring.  So you got to make
sure the court surface and balls just don't match.  And I always
think you know, that there will be adjustments.  If there's guys
that can hit 50 home runs they will figure out next year how to
pitch a little better.

 Q.   You have a regular group that has been supporting you
for years, at court side.  Do you draw energy from them?  Are
they a real source?

 BRAD GILBERT:  It is nice that they are supporting, you know,
it's nice that they are here.  My son watched the whole five set
match today.  He sat in the first row. That's a pretty good effort
for him too tough it out for five sets.

 Q.   Do you ever look at him?

 BRAD GILBERT:  Yeah, well he is standing there in the chair.
 He is talking to me a little bit.  But I mean, I feel like, you
know, win or lose, I mean, out there, I am the one responsible
for being out there.  And, you know, a lot of times other guys
are looking for excuses, they're looking around at people, what
is wrong with this?  What is wrong with that?  I figure, once
you go on the court, I mean, you got to take responsibility for
yourself and accept, you know, what you do, and you can't make
excuses that something went wrong, well, he did this or he did
that.  I never seen so many guys make excuses about losing in
my life.  You step on the court you accept the responsibility
to win or lose.  

 Q.   I know you plan your tour to Moscow.  Let's talk about
the Kremlin Cup.  Can we expect you this year?

 BRAD GILBERT:  T.B.D.

 Q.   Wait, what, I mean-- seriously, with all your family's
connection?

 BRAD GILBERT:  Don't put me on the limb.  Andrew, deadlines,
not yet.  Don't put me on the spot.  But I don't know.  I mean,
I am playing six straight weeks in Europe as it is now, so I don't
know.  Just depends on a few things.

 Q.   Standard Gilbert question, one-on-one, you are one of
the top dozen money winners of all times, yet your results in
the Slams have been modest?

 BRAD GILBERT:  Maybe they will get better this week.

 Q.   But seriously, when coming into a Slam does that put
any extra pressure on you?

 BRAD GILBERT:  I think I am past the pressure now.  I mean, I
think the expectations have dropped from a lot of people.  I have
high expectations of myself, so, you know, hell, if I would have,
five years ago beat Connors here they would have said, how come
you didn't make the final? I mean, it is tough.  It's like Canseco,
they are not satisfied with him hitting 44 home runs and 123 RBIs.
 And like Andre, he had a great career.  In my opinion people
were riding him real hard.  All of a sudden he wins; all these
people have thought he was a putz.  All of a sudden people jump
on the band wagon and said, he's great.  I thought he was a great
player for the last five years.  He got to three finals, got to
different surfaces, he represented the game well, and a lot of
people set these high expectations.  If you don't achieve what
people expect of you, it is a tough gig.

 Q.   Thank you. I want to apologize for the delay of the Gilbert
interview.  Gilbert has just been nominated the fastest speaker
I have ever experienced.  It was practically unstenographable.
 We have listened to it on a tape and the results are as follows:
  Thank you for your patience.     


 End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT