NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 15, 2020
Domantas Sabonis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your expectations for tonight, being part of the skills competition? Is that something you can practice for? Are you looking to win this thing or just have a good time or what?  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: I'm just looking to have a good time, just experience it and go out there and enjoy it. Then we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  You're in the top 24 players in the world. You averaged five points as a rookie. How do you put all that in perspective this year?  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: It's crazy. It's like a dream being here with all these players. I was just in the locker room with all the guys. It's crazy. All these greats in there. It's pretty cool, just every year trying to get better as a player. The Pacers trusted in me to come here and lead the team and be a better player and just basically be myself. I feel like I'm just trying to take advantage of that and enjoy the ride.   
 Q.  What is the feeling like in that locker room?  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: It's hard to believe. You're sitting there, and you have all these All-Stars next to you. I'm just sitting there enjoying it, talk to some of the guys and enjoying the experience.   
 Q.  Did you watch the Draft, and did it bother you that you were the last name on the board?  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: No, not at all. I'm just happy to be there. I just want to be part of the experience and enjoy it.   
 Q.  This is something your dad wasn't able to accomplish. Probably should have been an All-Star. What's it mean to him and to you to have this experience?  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: He's very proud of me here. The whole family's here, and we're just enjoying the moment. Times were different back then, but he for sure should have been an All-Star.   
 Q.  On playing at Gonzaga:  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: Gonzaga is just a great program. It's a great school program. The coaching staff, Coach [Mark] Few, Tommy Lloyd, everybody does a great job. I feel like they prepare us for the NBA. Everything is very professional since we get there. I came from Europe playing professional, so there wasn't much of a difference from that. It was a bunch of kids. They just do a great job of preparing you for what's important.   
 Q.  Who have you heard from since you got the All-Star nod that may surprise you? Anyone from around the league?  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: I had a couple of past teammates from around the league who had texted me. It's just great to see the support. Everyone is just happy and proud.   
 Q.  What does it mean to your father for you to be an All-Star?  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: He's just very excited. He called me that night and very excited and said better things are going to come.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT