OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 23, 2016
Domantas Sabonis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you just talk about, what are your expectations, first year with the Thunder, first year in the league, what do you want to see from yourself?  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: First of all I'm just very happy to be part of the organization.  I'm very lucky and I've just got to get better every day, work on my game, and when I have an opportunity to come out, just help the team to win.  That's most important thing.   
 Q.  Do you see yourself playing more of the four here in Oklahoma City?  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: Haven't talked to the coaches yet about my role.  Tomorrow starts training camp.  Hopefully I'll learn a lot more about it.  But whatever the coaches want me to play, I'm going to come out and try to do my best and help the team win.   
 Q.  Your legacy, your family, how does it feel following your father to the NBA?  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: It's awesome, but I still have a lot to improve, a lot to do, and like I said before, I'm just here to try to get better.   
 Q.  How surprised were you whenever the trade went down on draft night that you came to Oklahoma City instead of a team like Orlando?  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: Everything happened really fast while I was there.  I was really excited.  My whole family was there to support me and be with me.  I was happy when I was drafted and when I found out I was coming to the Oklahoma City Thunder, I was even more excited.  I've heard so much great things about the organization and I'm just happy to be part of it.   
 Q.  How did playing for the national team over the summer help get you prepared for the coming season?  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: I think it helped me a lot, keeping in shape, working on many I game all summer and playing in the Olympics is something special, especially representing many I country, and then playing against high-level athletes and great players was really helpful.   
 Q.  You've played pro ball before and been around pros, not just with the Olympics but in Spain.  How does that help from a lifestyle perspective, not always playing with kids your own age?  
DOMANTAS SABONIS: I think it's helped me a lot.  I've always been the youngest on the team growing up, and just being in that situation, I think maturing at a young age really helped me and learning how to take care of myself.  I think it's just helped me so far.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT