NHL DRAFT 2017
June 23, 2017
Cody Glass
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You have guys have worked out with in Toronto, these connections?  
CODY GLASS: Yeah, seriously, and especially with Brendan (indiscernible) before the Atlanta Hawks.  I think he's just someone I've always looked up to ever since I've joined Portland, and no, that's going to make it a lot easier going into training camp and everything, and they're very nice people, I think.   
 Q.  You pattern your game after Mark Scheifele.  Tell us why.  
CODY GLASS: I think I play a good two-way game, and like him, he's a good two-way forward, very unselfish, and that's something I like about him.   
 Q.  Have you been to Vegas?  
CODY GLASS: Yes, I have, for a hockey tournament when I was around 10, I think.   
 Q.  Hockey tournament?  
CODY GLASS: Yeah.   
 Q.  Can you tell us more about that?  Do you remember it?  
CODY GLASS: It was just like a summer hockey tournament, but pretty much in Vegas it's always summer.  No, it's a tournament I played for the Junior Steelers, and I think we came in second that tournament, so was pretty disappointed in that.  No, I'm looking forward to many more games in Vegas.   
 Q.  Did you think it was weird, going to a tournament there for hockey?  
CODY GLASS: Kind of.  I didn't really see that as a hockey place when I went there, but now that they have the new team and I see the fans and I think the season ticket holders like sold out in -- I forget how much time, but I think the fans are going to be unbelievable.   
 Q.  What was the memory from that tournament?  Do you remember just walking around the city or anything you guys did as a family?  
CODY GLASS: I think going to -- just being there and walking down the strip, that's just something that's really nice, and don't get too much of that in Winnipeg, so it's nice to get out there.   
 Q.  What were the nerves like when you were sitting back there?  
CODY GLASS: It's kind of nerve-racking because you never know where you're going to go, and I think at one point I was just sitting there just waiting for my name to be called and my hands were shaking and obviously I got picked to Vegas, and that was a huge opportunity for me.   
 Q.  This is obviously a very special moment for you personally, but was there anybody you were thinking of after your name was called?  
CODY GLASS: Yeah, I was thinking about my dad and my brother, and I get to experience this with them, and that's something I've always wanted and dreamed of as a kid.  And one other person is probably my grandma, who passed away in August.  She's always been there throughout my hockey career, and I dedicated my season to her, as well.   
 Q.  When you saw the look on their faces, what was it like?  
CODY GLASS: Yeah, I tried not making too much eye contact with my dad because I know he was trying, and if I saw him start to cry I was going to start crying, so I just tried making it short and sweet, and no, it's just a very emotional moment for me and my family.   
 Q.  What impressed you about (indiscernible)?  
CODY GLASS: Yeah, I know they have a really good organization, and my interview went really well with them I thought, and they showed a lot of interest.  I was very appreciative of that, and they're very outgoing people, and it made it easy for me to feel more comfortable in the meeting.   
 Q.  How did they make you feel comfortable?  
CODY GLASS: They're just very outgoing, like I said, and they're just very nice and gave me lots of compliments.   
 Q.  Who specifically?  
CODY GLASS: McCrimmon.  McCrimmon was a big one.  I think he was the one who did most of the talking, so that was nice.   
 Q.  Did you do much talking yourself?  
CODY GLASS: No, I didn't do much of the talking.   
 Q.  Do you worry at all going to such an unknown from something -- you're starting with a brand-new team.  Do you worry at all?  
CODY GLASS: Not at all.  I think Vegas holds a lot of opportunity, and I know they're going to be a great team in the future, and, no, I'm just really, really looking forward to getting started.   
 Q.  You're like a trivia question in Las Vegas sports history.  Your name will go down forever in our city.  What kind of pressure is that?  
CODY GLASS: I think there's a lot of pressure to it, but then again, I know what I can do on the ice, and they believe in me.  I'm just going to prove them right, like I said, and it's going to be really awesome just getting started in Vegas.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on the sweater?  
CODY GLASS: It's unbelievable.  I think it's probably one of the top jerseys in the league easily, and I got to see it during the expansion draft, so that was amazing.  I like it a lot.   
 Q.  Two Winnipeg kids going in the top six today, talk about that.  
CODY GLASS: Yeah, obviously me and Nolan, he's a great person off the ice, and I think that shows what Winnipeg and Manitoba really bring to the table for hockey, and I think moving forward, I think there's a lot of talent coming out of there.   
 Q.  The tear you went on in the season, is that in large part come from --  
CODY GLASS: I think so.  I think that's what made me have such a great start to the season, and I think just wanting to prove people wrong was a big thing, and I just wanted to be more consistent throughout the year, and I think that's what I did.   
 Q.  In terms of honing your game between now and training camp, what do you think you need to do?  
CODY GLASS: I think training is a huge thing for me, and I'm a big person who watches hockey a lot, so I always try and mimic what people do, especially like Mark Scheifele who played for the Jets, but mostly for me, just on and off the ice training, it's something I really need to work on, and I'm always trying to get better, I think.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
CODY GLASS: They've been unbelievable, especially getting Mike Johnson back.  He's given me every opportunity to succeed, and I can't thank him enough for that.  Going into the WHL draft, that's the one spot I wanted to land, and I got there in the first round.  No, they've done everything for me, and I'm really thankful for what they've done, and now I'm here.   
 Q.  What are you looking forward to the most?  
CODY GLASS: Just seeing the facilities and stuff like that.  I think that's going to be amazing.  Just being in Vegas.  It's a really nice city, I think, and I'm really looking forward to getting started.   
 Q.  Did you get any questions during the combine about it is Las Vegas, it's got a reputation, did you get any questions about how you'd handle that?  
CODY GLASS: No, not really.  I know I'm not a person who does any of that stuff, so I'm not too worried about that.   
 Q.  Do you think that this kind of speaks to hockey and NHL gaining more popularity in the U.S., the fact that the sports epicenter is now starting a team?  
CODY GLASS: I think so.  I know there's a lot of great people in Las Vegas and I know they're dedicated fans, so I know they're going to have good crowds every game, and it's something I'm really looking forward to.   
 Q.  What do you think of the roster?  
CODY GLASS: It's looking good so far.  Especially they have a lot of draft picks, and I think moving forward they're going to be really good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT