PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2020
Haotong Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  JOHN DEVER:   Good afternoon.  Welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship at TPC Harding Park.  We're pleased to be joined by Haotong Li who closed with a 69 today.  He finishes the championship at 6-under par.
 Haotong, we haven't seen you since Friday.  I know yesterday wasn't your best day, but you really showed something by bouncing back and you really got a little mojo going in the middle of the round and got back in the thick of things, didn't you.
 HAOTONG LI:   Yeah, I did.  Yesterday was very stressful since I wake up since I've never been there before.  I just felt super tired, not because of practice, but today I felt like everything is released.  I played really well until 16, missed a short birdie putt, and 18 just want to go aggressive, try to make a birdie, and went a little bit left.
 Yeah, it's great experience.
 JOHN DEVER:   What did you learn here this week?  You've had a close finish in the Open Championship a couple years ago and then this.  What do you need to do to get over that hump and get in the winner's circle.
 HAOTONG LI:   Well, I just need to be more consistent, and physically, as well.  I think if I play my best, I can beat them.  Just want to try to be in the level.
 Q. I've been asking about the golf course.  Did you like this golf course and why?
 HAOTONG LI:   It's a very fair course.  I really like that because you hit a good shot, you get rewarded.  You hit a good drive, you have like 9-iron, pitching wedge in.  I think that's the most biggest part.
 Q. Is that what you heard from most of the other players?
 HAOTONG LI:   No, I just felt that sort of way.
 Q. Did you hear any negative comments about the course at all?
 HAOTONG LI:   Not really.  Could be yesterday had some.
 Q. Just because you didn't play well --
 HAOTONG LI:   Yeah, I just -- stressful, very stressful.
 Q. But in general, you never really blamed the golf course?
 HAOTONG LI:   No, no, it's great.  The conditions are perfect.
 Q. Do you like the atmosphere, just the way it looks and everything, too?
 HAOTONG LI:   Yeah, this is my like third time playing here, so pretty cool.
 Q. You'd like to see a major come back here?
 HAOTONG LI:   Yeah.  Why not?  I played good.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT