SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
February 2, 2019
Haotong Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I've been doing my job for 27 years and I've never interviewed a player who has made four eagles in one round.  This is a first to me.  How exciting was a round like that, a 62, with all that going on?
HAOTONG LI: I think it's very, very lucky today.  Those eagles, especially last couple shots, was really solid, but except that, honestly, my play, wasn't that good.  But I did made a lot of par putts.
Q. Let's go through the eagles.  The first hole, three shots behind teeing off, you turn that into one.  Just describe that second shot?
HAOTONG LI: Yeah, that ball, lie, wasn't that great, and firm grain.  If it didn't go in the hole, it could have been off the green.  It's very lucky eagle over there.
Q. And you reduced the gap to one when you eagled 10.  Describe that one.
HAOTONG LI: 10, that's what I want to play, that way, but just I felt like I pushed a little bit.  Got a lucky bounce, kicked it left and went in the hole, which is very lucky, too.
Q. The third eagle, nothing to do with luck, 379 yards and wonderful shot to four feet?
HAOTONG LI: Well, yes, that was a solid shot and I hit when I want there, so six-foot eagle putt was a little bit nerve.
Q. The last hole, obviously, another eagle comes up there for a round of 62.  Just describe the adrenaline rush when you get a finish like that to a round like that.
HAOTONG LI: It is, another lucky bounce there.  I mean, off the tee, driving the bunker about two yards short to carry the bunker, and bounce over the bunker, which is lucky.  Hit into nine feet, something, ten feet.  Yeah, that was solid putt actually, quite exciting on that one.
Q. We saw you hold off Rory to win in Dubai last year and tomorrow you'll go head-to-head with Dustin Johnson, the world No. 3.  Give us your thoughts on that.
HAOTONG LI: I just want to play my best there, especially compared to last week, being okay this week.  So just have to put myself in the position hopefully often and I get used to that feeling and play and enjoy myself on the final round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT