SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
February 1, 2019
Haotong Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How pleased are you with the way this one started?  
LI HAOTONG: Yeah, it is very pleased.  I played quite solid over there, and disappointed in No. 4, which is a birdie hole become a bogey, which is a two-shot there.  But I think everything I did very well.   
 Q.  67-65, as you say, doing everything well.  Has anything particularly clicked in your game?  Have you found something in your swing or your putting stroke?  
LI HAOTONG: It is, especially after a long off-season and getting used to start playing again on the course, especially putting being very well.  Hopefully I can continue this feeling for the weekend.   
 Q.  You seem to adapt to new courses very well.  You were finishing top 10 in places like Dunhill Links last year, British Masters, Nedbank, Turkey, lots of different styles of courses.  Do you enjoy the challenge of a new course?  
LI HAOTONG: It is, especially playing on the European Tour, this is the most important and good things for us, always have some new, different challenge for us.   
 Q.  How excited are you about the possibilities this weekend playing as well as you are?  
LI HAOTONG: Yes, for sure, just -- yeah, just like you said, have to stay positive and play my best.   
 Q.  Give me your assessment of how well you played today.  
LI HAOTONG: Yeah, I've been playing really solid the whole day except on hole No. 4, which is I go for the green and in the bunker, three-putt inside 15 feet, which is a waste of two shots there.  Besides that, played very solid all day.   
 Q.  You finished nicely, nice second shot on 9.  Nice to finish with a birdie on a difficult hole?  
LI HAOTONG: Yeah, it is.  I had a long drive down the fairway and it was just a small iron for me, so it's pretty good to see a finish like that.   
 Q.  How enjoyable is it to play in the Middle East?  You seem so play very well when you come over here.  
LI HAOTONG: Yeah, I enjoy this place and love the course, and everything has been going well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT