OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 26, 2019
Haotong Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your third consecutive round of 67.  How do you feel about this one?
HAOTONG LI: It's pretty decent.  Actually the long game been way better than the last couple days.  Yeah, it's just a solid day today.
Q. Bogey at 16 and birdies at 17 and 18.  How pleasing was that?
HAOTONG LI: Yeah, that 16 bogey was a stupid putt.
17 and 18 was very good.  Didn't expect that.
Q. You started work with Phil Kenyon, the putting guru, after you missed cut last week in Abu Dhabi.  It's paid off very quickly.  How has he helped you?
HAOTONG LI: I think changed my posture a lot and just started everything in neutral now.  I think that's a big thing.  Same putter.  The grip was just changed back to old one.
Q. You held off Rory McIlroy here last year to win, 23-under par.  How much can you feed off that experience tomorrow?
HAOTONG LI: Well, you know, even the course setup, quite scorable, but you still have to play solid shots to make solid putts.  Just want to play tomorrow and play my best.
Q. How excited to have the possibility to defend the title?
HAOTONG LI: Yeah, I didn't expect that, either.  Go out and I'm still in the tournament.
Q. Looked like a few of the players were experiencing some frustration at times.  How did you find it on the whole?
HAOTONG LI: Yeah, I did play really solid compared to the last two rounds and long game being much better.  But just had a couple little bit of mistake on the greens.  In total, pretty good round today.
Q. Seemed like as you were making the turn, that was the bump in your momentum, 4-under through eight, and stagnated until the last two holes.
HAOTONG LI: Yeah, it is.  For example, hole No. 9, second shot, just a little bit soft on that shot.  Didn't really committed to shot and it was a long putt.  3-putt there, and 16, as well.
Between then, just didn't real little have good birdie opportunities, so the last two holes was pretty good.
Q. Conditions seem different from Thursday and Friday.
HAOTONG LI: I think it is a little bit windy than last couple days, but as soon as turn to the back nine, it just felt a lot more comfortable.
Q. Stephen Gallacher is the only person to successfully defend his title here.  What would it mean to you tomorrow to be lifting that trophy?
HAOTONG LI: Definitely means a lot, and just want to play my best over there and tomorrow, hopefully hold the trophy again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT