OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 24, 2019
Haotong Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A nice start, 5-under par.  How do you evaluate your first round's play?
HAOTONG LI: It's been pretty good.  Very happy to see a low score here again, and especially compared to last week, the game is definitely getting better each step.  The last few shots wasn't good, except everything is pretty good.
Q. 23-under par, tournament record last year, holding off Rory McIlroy, nice vibes to come back to to defend the tournament.  Tell us what the feeling has been like on the ground here around the players coming back to a place where you've got such amazing memories.
HAOTONG LI: Yeah, it is.  I have a lot of special memories from there last year, and even now, every time I walk past every hole, I still remember just like yesterday.  It's very cool for me.
Q. Playing in a group where you all shot 5-under par, how much does it help you when all of you in the group are playing really nice golf?
HAOTONG LI: Yeah, fortunately those two guys are nice guys, so I was quite lucky.  I like them.  Yeah, of course they played really well and they're very friendly, so that's why we both play good.
Q. How was today playing for you?
HAOTONG LI: Except the last few holes didn't play -- the 1st through 14th played very good, and especially compared to last week, the game is definitely getting better.  Looking forward for the weekend.
Q. There were some moments that it might have been a little colder than usual this morning and the ball might not have been flying as far.  Did you find any difficulties?
HAOTONG LI: It is.  I've been playing about 5 per cent -- adding 5 per cent more than normal in the morning, and as soon as it start warm, I just play normal.
Q. I think Stephen Gallacher is the only one who's been successful in defending his title here.  How eager are you to be lifting at the trophy at the end of the week?
HAOTONG LI: Well, if I can lift it again, it would be great.  Just still have to work on that and play well, hopefully have a nice next few days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT