ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 17, 2020
Haotong Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  8-under par for two rounds, four birdies and one bogey in the round. Tell us about that from your point of view?  
HAOTONG LI: Similar to yesterday. It's been grind whole day, and I mean, especially last few holes is not that easy. My short game improved a lot over last year, and I think that's the reason I get the result, I get a lot of up-and-down from there.   
 Q.  Is that what you've been working on over the break?  
HAOTONG LI: Pretty much, and also with my coach, work on my backswing a little bit. It helps.   
 Q.  You haven't had particular success at this course but you have won in Dubai, second in Saudi Arabia. Do you particularly look forward to this stretch of the season, coming over here and playing?  
HAOTONG LI: For sure, especially first week of the year. With such a good start, build some confidence and keep going.   
 Q.  You slipped out of the Top-50 in the world in September. Is it one of the biggest goals to get back in there and the World Golf Championships and majors?  
HAOTONG LI: Yes, for sure. This is my biggest goal for sure and just want to play solid like this, and I think I will be back soon.   
 Q.  Second round 69 here in Abu Dhabi. How happy were you about today's performance?  
HAOTONG LI: Yes, I did a lot up-and-down, and short game has been improved a lot. I think that's how I get this result.   
 Q.  You've had a bit of a break since the first week in December when you were back on a course competitively. What have you been doing over the break?  
HAOTONG LI: Yeah, I've been work very, very hard, and especially with my coach and whole team, and change management company, as well. It's a lot of change this year, but glad to see everything works.   
 Q.  You wouldn't have been too content with last year's performance. What is your main focus this year? What do you want to improve the most?  
HAOTONG LI: I mean, especially tee shot, from tee, and short game, as well. Just my approach shot always good, but not good on the stats. But pretty much those two things, I think I've been work on that very hard.   
 Q.  Obviously a big improvement this week to last year in Abu Dhabi. How does this course suit you? Is everything clicking more for you this week?  
HAOTONG LI: Yeah, I think the last three years, I didn't make the cut once, so I think I just hit a lot more fairways than before and hit a lot more greens. Yeah, I had a lot of birdie chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT