WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 29, 2019
Haotong Li
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a win here in a playoff.  Let's talk about regulation.  How did you get over the disappointment and then gear up for this hole?
HAOTONG LI: Well, the whole day just like a roller coaster.  And I didn't play solid the whole day.  A little bit off on my tee shot and I think that was it.  And on my final hole, last one, 18, which was just a little bit nervous and hit it a little soft, and it didn't get enough break.  But I felt like if happens, happens.  If it doesn't, just play good on next leg.
Q. What a great win.  It just took one hole against Alex Noren, great wedge shot into the green to stick it to three feet and win.  What are your emotions like right now to survive today?  You had a tough match earlier just to get here?
HAOTONG LI: Yeah, it is.  I mean, Tom Lewis played great today, and he had probably six birdies or something.  And, yeah, just got a little bit unlucky on the last.  Hands a little bit tight.  Didn't make the putt.  And I got lucky here, honestly.  Did hit a little thin, but not that thin.  As soon as I saw that bounce, I was like, God!  Thanks.
Q. I heard you yelling "bite, bite," and it finally checked up nicely.  You made it to the weekend now and you've got a big grind coming up starting to tomorrow morning?
HAOTONG LI: Yeah, I felt like I ran out of all the energy already.  I need to get something, recover and let's see what on tomorrow.
Q. (Inaudible).
HAOTONG LI: It is, especially on the 18, tough birdie putt.  I knew I need to make that for go through to knockout.  But hands a little bit tight, a little bit nervous but made it.  That's it.
But honestly I have a thin gap wedge shot.  It's not real thin but it's like little skinny thing until about three foot something, which was very lucky.  So I just so thankful for everything.
Q. If it was easy up every time you played, it would be boring.
HAOTONG LI: Yeah, I mean, I like to come easy way but things just never happen on me.  So I mean, you just have to hang in there and make that happen.
Q. So positives:  You're here for the weekend and make the 16.  You must be very proud of achieving it?
HAOTONG LI: Yeah, for sure.  I felt like I run out of all energy already.  But looking forward to weekend, hopefully I can win a few more matches.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT