THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 2, 2018
Aljaz Bedene
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BEDENE/C. Norrie   
4-6, 7-6, 7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That was a close match.  You must be delighted to come through it?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah.  I mean, to be fair, it didn't start well.  Conditions were a little bit tricky.  Trickier than previous days.  It was windy.  Sun was, I mean, terrible from the side, and didn't feel comfortable at all, really.  Wasn't hitting the ball well.  But I did fight, so that's important.   
You know, I lost so many matches now in a row, which was -- it's not usual for me.  Usually I win one at least.  Obviously I was playing Federer and lost again.  Two first-round matches and first round in Roland Garros.   
So I really wanted to win this one, and it was a good fight from my side.  That was important today.   
 Q.  You served well.  
ALJAZ BEDENE: I did serve well, yeah.   
 Q.  You've got to feel good about that.  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah, me and my coach talked about that because my serve is good, a weapon, and especially on grass.  If you're not serving well, then it's a problem.   
Yeah, I was serving well.  I gave my best, especially on my service games.  It worked out well.  Got a lot of free points and some aces, too.  I checked the percentage winning on the first and second serve were great and high, so, I mean, it helps.   
 Q.  Is it weird for this not to be a home tournament for you?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah, well, we spoke about that yesterday.  But to be fair, it did feel still like a bit like a home tournament.  I do feel great here.  You know, obviously they were more supporting Cam, but in the end of the day, some supported me, too.  I was pleased with that.   
 Q.  Did you feel like you were playing the line judges a bit, as well.  A few dubious calls.  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah, dubious calls.  Yeah, I mean, it wasn't easy.  I was serving -- he had break point.  It was important point.  And then the ball was long.  That was third or fourth one already.  I stayed calm.   
I actually thought of Harry Kane when he gets bad calls and he's still focused, because I'm bringing his shirt tomorrow in.  I'm a big fan of his.  He's the type of a player who just sticks to what he knows best.  Doesn't go against the referees.  He accepts the mistakes.  You know, because I was watching the game, I mean, watched all of the games, but especially the one against Tunisia.  He was pulled down and he stayed calm.  I would freak out, because it was an important moment.   
Yeah, I kept calm, which was good, although it wasn't easy, because, you know, it didn't go -- everything, I mean, not everything, but most of the things went against me.  Was serving for the set and that bad call.  Yeah, but then I felt focused and played quite well the tiebreaks.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
ALJAZ BEDENE: I like Tottenham, yeah.  More and more really.  I like Harry Kane a lot.   
 Q.  What is it about Harry Kane?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: He's just so skilled, strong.  I think he's going to be one of the best soon.   
 Q.  Are you going to wear his shirt tomorrow?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yes.   
 Q.  For training?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yes.   
 Q.  England shirt or Tottenham shirt?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: England.   
 Q.  Get one of the white ones.  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Exactly.  That's why.   
 Q.  What did you expect of Cameron today?  He's only been professional for little over a year.  
ALJAZ BEDENE: I mean, he was playing well in Eastbourne.  I think he reached quarterfinals.  A few wins on grass.  What was I expecting?  I knew I'm a better player at the moment, especially on grass.  I have to perform well to win, because he's a great fighter.   
Yeah, and, you know, I was not expecting that tough match, to be fair, because I was playing really well on the training sets with everyone.  And I was really, really satisfied with my performance then.  Obviously matches are totally different story and I haven't won many lately.  So I was a little bit nervous.   
But, yeah, he's a great fighter.  I like that.  Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT