AEGON CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2016
Aljaz Bedene
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BEDENE/B. Paire   
7-6, 6-7, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How dark was it out there at the end?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Really dark.  Yeah, I was a break up, so I didn't really want to finish.  Yeah, I mean, after losing that second set and being match point, having a match point, it was just difficult to finish, you know, to stop at that point.  Because I knew I wouldn't sleep much, and, yeah, I mean, when I was a break up, tough conditions, slippery, when you're a break up, you have to continue.   
It's great that we finished today.   
 Q.  I didn't see it at all.  Was he trying to get it called off for the night?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: No.  He wasn't, no.   
 Q.  How are you feeling on the grass?  It hasn't always been your favorite surface.  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Tough to say, because I played Holland and I felt good but didn't really practice much on it.  And, yeah, I came here and I didn't practice at all, so the match was awkward in a way because, you know, he's playing awkward tennis and lots of, I mean, shanky forehands, dropshots.  Great serve.  Sometimes, you know, stupid mistakes.  He doesn't give you rhythm.  It's actually tough to say.  It was really, really slippery today.   
Yeah.  I mean, I don't really know what to say.   
 Q.  Andy now in the next round.  What's it going to be like playing against him?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: I think it's going to be full, full crowds.  Yeah, hopefully better conditions, drier.  And, yeah, I mean, if it's going to be full, I'm just going to try and enjoy it.   
Yeah, just try to adapt on grass.  And, yeah, the first thing is enjoy it, put my game on the court and see what happens.   
 Q.  You have practiced quite a lot with him, I think, haven't you?  But mainly on clay probably.  
ALJAZ BEDENE: It was on clay, hard court for the Davis Cup.  Never -- actually, we did practice for the first time at Queen's on grass.  Yeah, so we tried all the surfaces.   
 Q.  Any things you learned from that?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Besides he's really good?  Yeah, well, I know a few things.   
Yeah, been watching him a lot on the telly.  So, yeah, he's a great player.  So if I stand a chance, I have to play great.   
 Q.  Is this an opportunity for you, as well, to maybe introduce yourself to some of the British fans who may not have seen so much of you?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, I mean, I don't see any better court than, you know, a court in England, one of the biggest courts.   
Yeah, I think so.  I'm just going to try and play my best tennis and show myself, basically.   
 Q.  He's only played one match on grass.  He's had very little preparation.  Would this be perhaps the best time to play him?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: I mean, I think he loves grass, and he's beaten someone who just won a tournament.  So I wouldn't say it's easy or any time easier to play him.  Yeah, I mean, he loves it.  You know, it's going to be a difficult match.   
 Q.  Can you speak to him tomorrow, maybe text him, mind games maybe?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Probably he'll play a few mind games on me.  He's good at that.  (Smiling.)   
No, I'm kidding.  He's a great guy.  We'll probably say a few words.  Yeah, he's, as I said, like all the top guys are true professionals, you basically never see them on-site.  They are practicing, go back and rest.  So, yeah, it's game on now.   
 Q.  Can you talk a bit about how your game is suited for grass?  Because you were talking about how springy your legs, ski-jumping legs are.  Does that make you suited to grass?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Oh.  I mean, I've got quick legs.  In a way, yes.  One of the best grass court players of all time was Lleyton Hewitt, as well.  Hasn't had the best serve but had great legs, great return.  He was quick.   
So, I mean, I'm not that close, but, yeah, I guess this is one of the good things about grass.  The quicker, more handy players can play on it.   
You know, it's not just big serve, because you don't see big servers win usually.  It's the ones who are moving the best.  So I'm moving well but I need to move better.   
So, yeah, I was ski jumping but that doesn't help much if you're not used to play on grass, but I'll keep on working on it.   
 Q.  How is your fitness at the moment?  You have had one or two issues the last few weeks, months.  
ALJAZ BEDENE: My fitness, great.  Yeah.  I've got no problems at all, which is great to see.  And also today I know we played two hours and something and I feel great.  So it's great.   
 Q.  You talked about training with more purpose with Martin.  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah.   
 Q.  Have you had much time to train coming into here  or has it been more match practice?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, I was in Holland, and, I mean, I was in a way training through that.   
Yeah, I mean, playing on grass is different than on playing on clay or hard courts, so you need to do different exercises and I was doing that.  I feel perfectly fine.  You know, players just need to adapt on grass because it's, you know, different surface.  So, yeah, just that.   
 Q.  Is Leon still working with you at all?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, I started two days ago with Nick Cavaday.  Leon was there today supporting from the side, but I know that Leon and Nick spoke and, yeah, definitely working with Nick here at Queen's next week and Wimbledon.   
 Q.  Are you hoping that will continue after that?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Definitely, yeah.   
 Q.  I presume with Leon and his connection with Andy Murray he's not going to be helping you before you play him?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah, well, that's my and Nick's game.  (Smiling.)  I mean, I don't know.  I doubt that he'll say anything about Andy's weaknesses, but, I mean, I just hope he's going to enjoy the game.   
 Q.  Has there been any new developments for Davis Cup?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Nothing yet, no.  I'm still waiting.   
 Q.  Have they given you a timeline about anything at all?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, I mean, Stephen Farrow is the tournament director here and I know he's busy.  It's his birthday today, as well, so I don't want to bother him with these questions.   
But I just hope he knows a bit more now, and definitely after this tournament is finished, I will ask him and I'm sure he knows a bit more.  At the moment, I don't know what's going on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT