ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2016
Aljaz Bedene
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BEDENE/P. Carreno Busta   
7-6, 6-3, 4-6, 5-7, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You've taken quite a long time to come in here.  Are you fully fit?  Injured or anything?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: No, I'm not struggling with anything.  Thank you.  Yeah, everything good.  Just had to do a few things because I was struggling with my hip.  Every time after the match I have to do some things.   
Yeah, but, no, I'm okay.   
 Q.  So quite a turnaround for you, because it's obviously been tough times in the last few months.  Must be very satisfying to have turned it round like this?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah, I mean, I was playing well today and won, which is great.  Yeah, just feel good on the court, which is I think the most important thing.   
Yeah, he wasn't an easy opponent today, and I think I played really well the first two sets.  A few sloppy games in the third and fourth set which brought it to the fifth, but the fifth was good as well.   
I know he was struggling, but still I was fighting well.  That was the most important thing today.   
 Q.  Did you take any inspiration at all from Andy coming through two five-set matches?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, I think he was coming back from two sets to one down, so, yeah, my story was a bit different.   
Yeah, still, when you see Andy fighting that well it just shows that we can all do it.  I know he's one of the fittest guys and this was only my second fifth set, but I guess it was good to come over that one in Wimbledon last year.   
So, I mean, I'm fit enough to play them and fit enough to finish them and win them, so that's great to see.   
 Q.  I was looking at the aces charts before coming in here:  1, Karlovic; 2, Isner; 3, Bedene.  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah.   
 Q.  Where did that come from?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah, I'm not the No. 1 yet so have need to work on that.  Yeah, it's great to see.  It's funny.  The difference was quite big, but, yeah, I was serving well today, 23 aces.  Just when the serve goes well, it goes well.   
I know I was serving sometimes three aces a game, and, you know, it helps.   
 Q.  You've got Djokovic next.  You obviously played him last year.  Was there anything you learned from that, apart from the fact that he's quite good?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yes.  I did learn a lot.  That you shouldn't have in any sloppy games.  I have to be focused, have to play my game, and see what happens.  I know I started that match quite well, unlike those two matches today and two days ago.   
So I have to be more focused from the beginning and take my chances.  I know if I play well anything can happen.   
 Q.  At the moment of winning that's probably the most emotional I've seen you.  What were you feeling at that point?  What was going through your mind?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Just happy not to scream too much.  Yeah, I mean, I've been fighting with myself a lot in the last few months.  When the last ball goes wide or long, you just know you won.  You just release everything what's been inside.   
I hope I didn't scream too much, but it was emotional, that last point.  I saw he's struggling so I didn't know I would win when I did break for 4-2.  Yeah, just that last point you have to win.  It was very emotional.   
 Q.  They were queuing up to get on Court 6 to watch you today.  Going to be a lot bigger next time.  Is that the sort of occasion you look forward to performing, or will it be a bit intimidating?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: I love big crowds.  I saw they were queuing because I went to the toilet.  It's great to see.  Yeah, usually I love that.   
Because I don't know if you know, but I won a lot of Italian challengers, and every time you play the final there is a 1000, 2000 people, which is a lot for challengers.   
So I did learn a few things.  I know this stadium is bigger, but still you have to come from somewhere.   
 Q.  Novak hasn't looked himself perhaps lately.  Looked a bit out of sorts.  Wasn't exactly at his best today.  I wouldn't imagine you would've seen much of that, but do you take encouragement from that or you have to ignore that and expect the very best Novak?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah.  I think if you expect the best out of him then, you know -- my level is going to be hopefully the best as well.  I'm not expecting any sloppy games.  Maybe a few points here and there, but he's the world No. 1 and he's here to win the French Open for the first time.  I think he'll be fully motivated.   
Yeah, just I'll try and stay focused on my game and see what happens.   
 Q.  You spoke last time about Leon and how he's helped you with your game.  Obviously the fitness was a big part of it today.  Who have you been doing the fitness work with?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: I been working for the last three years with Martin Skinner from Gosling.  Yeah, he's been great.  I was really, really unfit when I started to play Grand Slams.   
 Q.  Really, really unfit?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, for a professional, yes.  I was struggling.  Whenever I played a fourth set I was just, yeah, losing them quite easy.   
I remember once at the US Open lost 6-Love and I was struggling.  I really wanted to improve on that.  When I employed Martin, when we started to work together, just my fitness level went up.  It obviously helps not only in the fifth set but also on the other tournaments.   
And I'm staying healthy, so that's a big part as well.   
 Q.  Were you tired in the fifth?  How do you feel now?  How will you recover?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: I feel good.  I guess tomorrow won't be the easiest day, but I'll do my best to get everything done with ice bath and massage.  We'll see, but I feel good.   
 Q.  You mentioned your slow starts in the two matches.  Is there a reason for that?  How can you avoid that happening in two days' time?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, there has to be a reason.  But, yeah, I'll go through everything with ^ Leon ^ Lyon tomorrow and see.  I mean, it's all mental, I guess, because I wasn't moving my legs at the beginning.  Just came out not the best.   
So we'll see.  I mean, I have to start better against Djokovic.  Yeah, I mean, I'll try to improve on that.   
 Q.  Just back on Novak, how well do you know him?  Do you talk to him at all off the court?  
ALJAZ BEDENE: Don't talk to him much, although I can speak Serbian.  No.  I know he's a true professional.  Whenever he's at a tournament he's practicing or doing something with his team, but he's not much on site.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT