WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2015
Aljaz Bedene
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. TROICKI/A. Bedene
  6‑4, 3‑6, 6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What do you make of your performance?  
ALJAZ BEDENE:   Well, actually, I had a really good‑‑ had breaks twice.   Couldn't hold the serve.   I was rushing too much.   
Then the second set was really good.   Broke twice.   Didn't lose the serve.   
Yeah, I mean, he served really good.   So it wasn't easy to put the balls in, although I tried my best.  
Yeah, he was serving wide, in, I mean, as good as I have seen him.   It wasn't easy.  
I just made a little bit too many mistakes on the important points.   Missed, yeah, just too easy.   Tried volleys twice, I think.   
Yeah, overall was good week.   I'm happy with the way I played on grass.   Yeah, just a little bit disappointed with the loss today, because I know if I play my best tennis I could win.   I could be two sets to love up in the first two sets.   In the first set I just made too many errors when I was a break up.  
I have to learn something from it and hopefully, well, definitely I will be a better player next year.  
   
 Q.   Considering you're a home player, it was quite a quiet crowd.   Do you feel they could have been more behind you a little bit?  
ALJAZ BEDENE:   Well, I don't know.   I loved it.   I mean, you could say quiet.   I think they were supporting me, and, I mean, yeah, it was just nice to play in front of a bigger crowd.  
   
 Q.   This is your first competition officially as a British player?   Is it going to be more of a learning experience this year?  
ALJAZ BEDENE:   In what sense?   
   
 Q.   In terms of picking up the vibes from the home crowd.   You're representing Britain now since March.   
ALJAZ BEDENE:   Well, next year is definitely going to be a different story.   I will be used to all the media attention.   
Yeah, just feel that next year I will be a different person for all the British people.   They will get to know me more.   It will be easier.   
Hopefully I will get to play on a little bit bigger court.   Yeah, I mean, hopefully they will love me.   
   
 Q.   What do you plan to do now?   Do you plan to go around to support the other guys?  
ALJAZ BEDENE:   Yeah, I'm staying here probably only till tomorrow.   Then heading back home for a few days.   Yeah, just don't know my schedule yet.  
I'm signed for a challenger next week in Italy where I won last year.   Yeah, just need to discuss it with the team.  
   
 Q.   You get a nice bit of prize money getting into the second round.   Any idea what you want to spend that on?   
ALJAZ BEDENE:   Spend?   Well, yeah, I want to have a good career, so I will invest into tennis, obviously.   It will definitely help to bring that into the team, just share it a little bit between the team and hopefully they feel happy.  
   
 Q.   No gifts at all for yourself?  
ALJAZ BEDENE:   Gifts?   Well, I'm not having that much money to spend it yet.   I just want to invest into tennis.  
   
 Q.   Did the success of James Ward and Andy, did that put a little bit of pressure on you to make it a hat trick?  
ALJAZ BEDENE:   No pressure at all, no.   I'm happy for them.   Obviously I think it's the first third round for James?   Yeah, he was playing well.   
But, yeah, I was trying to stay focused on my match.   I didn't think too much on the hat trick.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned it was kind of very tight.   It was sort of, first two sets, it was one point here or there.   Is that kind of heartening to know how close you can be to really sort of making a significant step up?  
ALJAZ BEDENE:   Well, I started really well, so it's a bit of a shame that I was just rushing into a few points.   Definitely could change the whole game.  
But, yeah, just have to see it through in the next stage to see where were the mistakes and, yeah, just try to improve.   And definitely I think I will just, with all the improvements into the next year, I will be a different player next year.   Looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Any goals for next year in terms of Wimbledon?   Have you got kind of a third‑round prize in mind, something like that?  
ALJAZ BEDENE:   Well, nothing yet, but, yeah, just want to play my best tennis.   Just try to enjoy playing it.  
   
 Q.   It's whetted your appetite this year for coming back and even bettering this next year?  
ALJAZ BEDENE:   Well, definitely I want to be a better player.   If I can play my best tennis, I can go far.   I didn't know I can play well on grass, but I showed it this year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT