ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2015
Aljaz Bedene
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  D. THIEM/A. Bedene  6-3, 6-4, 6-7, 6-3    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  How close you think you came to turning that round?  ALJAZ BEDENE: Very close.  Well, I didn't start well, and then in the third I felt comfortable. Yeah, I felt actually better, because, well, he was playing last week and obviously he was a little bit tired. Yeah, just that third set meant a lot, and unfortunately I didn't take the break point in the third game. It could go other way, yeah.  But, I mean, he played well.  It wasn't easy to control his shots, his high spins on both sides. When he's confident, he can play.  Yeah, I was just fighting.  Didn't disappoint myself.  Yeah, I guess the slow beginning cost me the match.   Q.  Is there anything you can put this slow beginning down to?  ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, after winning the challenger I didn't play for a week because I felt my hip was not great.  So I canceled Geneva.  Well, it could be this; could be something else. I'm trying to figure out not to happen at Wimbledon.  But, yeah, I mean, I think this was one of my best matches on the Grand Slams.  Yeah, as I said, if I wouldn't have start slow, I could win. I mean, he's a great player, but, yeah, I just felt -- just didn't feel comfortable at the beginning.  I mean, if I can get this right the next time, I think I'll be okay.   Q.  You called the doctor in the final set.  What was the problem.  Your wrist?  ALJAZ BEDENE: No, no.  Well, I'm getting this week blisters everywhere.  The one just started when I call the doctor.  So I don't know what's wrong with my hands, but, yeah, just got three new ones. Didn't have any problems before.   Q.  Only started in the final set?  ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, got one at the beginning of the week and then two today. So, yeah.   Q.  You said the opening wasn't what you wanted.  Could that have been anything to do with nerves, apprehension, new country, a lot of people looking at you?  ALJAZ BEDENE: No, I don't think I had any problems with that.  When I was warming up I felt great.  Yeah, just think that -- I mean, obviously he's playing great shots and his high spins are something that I needed to get used to. I mean, combine everything, you get the performance from the first two sets.   Q.  What's your schedule now leading into Wimbledon?  ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, I'll see on my hip, because also today I didn't felt great.  But I want to play one more challenger on clay in Italy before I go to play Liverpool exhibition. Then Nottingham and then Wimbledon.   Q.  So not playing Queen's?  ALJAZ BEDENE: No, not Queen's.   Q.  Did it feel any different playing under a different bunch today, or once you're out there it's just a tennis match?  ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah, I mean, I was fighting probably more than I was ever before.  I was giving everything, so, yeah, it felt really good.  I felt proud. I just wanted to get the best out of the first match.  Yeah, I mean, as I said, I think if I could break in the fourth set first, there would be good chances to win.  I felt he's tired and I was just raising my level.   Q.  How much are you looking forward to playing on grass?  Is it a surface you think you can play well on?  ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah.  I mean, I'm looking forward to all the grass tournaments.  Yeah, I think I can play well.  I haven't played much.  I haven't practiced much because I was always choosing clay court tournaments. I think with Liverpool exhibition coming this year I think I'll have four matches.  I think I can prepare well to play well there as well. So, yes.   Q.  What was the thinking behind not playing Queen's?  Seems an unusual decision.  It's a very high profile tournament in the U.K., as you know.  ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah, well, I would have to start in quallies.  Yeah, I love Queen's.  I was always feel welcome there.  I think it's one of the best tournaments in the world. But, yeah, I think with playing four matches in Liverpool exhibition I can get more matches on grass.  I think this will help to develop my game on grass. So, yeah.   Q.  Didn't discuss a wildcard with the LTA?  ALJAZ BEDENE: I wouldn't get one.   Q.  Wouldn't you?  Why not?  ALJAZ BEDENE: No.  Well, priorities with Davis Cup players.   Q.  I was going to ask you exactly the same question.  You've been told that, have you, that the LTA would prioritize existing Davis Cup players?  Because if this meeting goes well on Saturday, then you may be a Davis Cup player.  ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah, I mean, the wildcard announcement a little bit earlier than on the 30th of May.  Yeah, that's what I was told, and I agree with that.   Q.  By who?  Who told you that?  ALJAZ BEDENE: The LTA and the organizers.  I mean, I completely agree with that and I think it's good for me to start at the Liverpool exhibition.  That was the plan anyway from the beginning, to get four matches on grass and, yeah, start to play well.   Q.  When Greg moved from being Canadian to British, he famously wore his union flag bandana.  You're a lot more low-key.  No obvious signs of a new nationality.  Was that a conscious decision to play it gently?  ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, was wearing Union Jack bandanas back in in 2012 and 13, but only on practice.  I felt good with them, but I didn't want to wear them on matches. I mean, I'm having adidas sponsors, so they don't make ones.  (Smiling.)  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT