THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2017
Aljaz Bedene
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. BEDENE/D. Dzumhur
6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You're on court 3, which was particularly beset by flying ants.  Was that something that you noticed and might have affected your game?
ALJAZ BEDENE: At the beginning there were more, right?
Q. Well, I came midway through and I still noticed quite a lot.
ALJAZ BEDENE: I think it was better towards the end.
But, yeah, it was a little bit awkward.  You have to focus on your game.  If you get a few flies on your back or hat, I mean, if that bothers you, the games go away.
I don't think it bothered us too much, but it was annoying.
Q. Another excellent performance.  Can you assess how you played today?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, it's never easy to play against a friend.  We are good friends.  We both were nervous from the beginning.  To be honest, I started to play better in the third set.  And then in the fourth I was in control but before it was just too many errors.
But, yeah, I won in four sets and I'm pleased with that.
Q. Seemed to really feed off the crowd again.  Must be nice to be out there and having home support for you.
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah, I mean, I played my first match on court No. 3, and it's easier if you played before on the same court.
It was really good.  I mean, I probably wouldn't have done it without them.  I mean, the first round.  And then again today I was a little bit tired.  They helped me when it was tough.
Q. You say you're friends with your opponent but at one stage he seemed to have a bit of a falling out with your people.  What did you make of that?  I think he thought they were applauding one of his errors.
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, I mean, I wouldn't say he was wrong or right.  You know, it was just -- he was a little bit nervous.  It was an important point, first point of the eighth game, new balls.
To be honest, I think maybe my coach just went a little bit too far with that "Come on" too loud.  But, you know, I can't say because I don't really know how loud that was.  But I know he was nervous, so...
Q. Your coach was nervous?  Or you?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Damir was nervous a little bit.
But, yeah, I don't think it was anything in particular, because when you're playing a match, anything can happen, really.
Q. Did you speak about it afterwards?
ALJAZ BEDENE: No.  I think it's all forgotten.  I mean, they are good friends, as well, so should be fine (smiling).
Q. You talked about feeling a little tired yourself, but your next player is Gilles Muller, who had a very long match today.  After your match in Rosmalen, you must feel quite confident that you will feel fresher than he does?
ALJAZ BEDENE: How long was his match?
Q. 3 hours, 37.
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, yeah, I'm lucky to play two hours today.  I feel quite happy with that, because I've got another day to recover, to do everything right and try to be fresher than today, because that first match wasn't easy.
And, yeah, as I said, it's good to win in four sets today.  Yeah, he played five sets, so we'll see.
Yeah, I'd say I'm hoping he's going to be tired, but yeah, just try and focus on my game.
Q. This is only your second time in a third round of a Grand Slam.  Do you see that as a good result or do you really want to try and go much further as time goes on?  And here what do you see as a good result?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, hopefully after this you guys won't be calling me a clay court specialist anymore (smiling).  But yeah, I mean, third round good, but I'm not -- I mean, I'm happy with that result, but I always want to go a step further.
Yeah, I've got a chance on Friday, and I'll do my best, yeah.
Q. Is it true that you were contemplating a career as a ski jumper?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, I really love ski jumping.  I love watching it.  But I did that for a while, but then the coach said, Use those legs for tennis, and he was right.
Q. You could be British No. 1 ski jumper.  You know that?
ALJAZ BEDENE: I don't think I would move to Britain for ski jumping.  (Laughter.)
Q. It's something you considered?  You were thinking about it some time ago?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, I mean, I was too young at that time.  But, I mean, before I even started, me and my brother were in front of the TV -- you know, when you go down, what's the word?  When they go down...
Q. The ramp?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah, so we were basically doing that together with every ski jumper, so there were 50 in one series.  Dad said, Okay, they obviously love ski jumping.  There is a hill close to us.  And we did that for, I think a few years.  I mean, I guess we're not that good (smiling).
Q. Do you expect to be on Centre Court for your next match?
ALJAZ BEDENE: No.
Q. You don't expect?
ALJAZ BEDENE: No.
Q. Would you like?
ALJAZ BEDENE: I mean, anything could, even the Court 3 is good.  We'll see.  I mean, maybe a Court 2, Court 1, but definitely not Centre Court.
Q. Why not Centre Court?  No. 16 seed against a Brit.  It should be Centre Court, shouldn't it?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Maybe in the fourth round, yeah.  But not in the third.
Q. Leon Smith was in the crowd.  I just wondered if there had been any developments with possibly representing Great Britain with Davis Cup.  And obviously the appeal was rejected, but the ITF seemed to be suggesting there might be a cause for appealing in future.
ALJAZ BEDENE: I think I'm speaking to Leon after Wimbledon.  We've got some more time.  I can't say anything more than that.
Q. He would have been impressed with your performance today, I guess?
ALJAZ BEDENE: I hope so.
Q. Looking ahead to Friday's match, you said you were hoping Gilles might be a bit more tired than you.  What are you expecting?  What's the challenges you will face?
ALJAZ BEDENE: He loves grass.  He won 's-Hertogenbosch.  He played semis at Queen's.  He loves serve-and-volley play.  He's quite aggressive.
I don't know.  I'm just trying to put my game on the court and see what happens, really.  I mean, yeah, I played him a few weeks ago so I know, I wouldn't say his weaknesses, because there aren't many, but if I play my game, I've got a chance.
Q. Did the ants really not bother you?  Because it looked like a Biblical play to us up in the seats.  I could barely see you.
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, they did bother us, but when you are playing a point, you only see the ball.  But after the point, yeah, they were just flying around.  Hopefully that was just today and they will be gone by Friday.
Q. Have you experienced ants like that before or that many insects?
ALJAZ BEDENE: No.  It was awkward, but as I said, we have to stay focused and play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT