AEGON CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2017
Aljaz Bedene
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What prompted the change of heart from Halle to Queen's?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, first of all, I got into Queen's.  Yeah, I mean, at 5:30 I was one out of Halle, into Queen's, and I could wait at the end I would get into Halle, but Queen's, I had enough matches on grass, and yeah, Queen's it is.  I'm actually happy about that.
Q. What was your first thought when you saw the draw?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, that was one of the reasons why Halle would be a better option.  I mean, you got Roger there and a few other great players, but the field here is really strong.  But, you know, I played Andy last year here.  I was enjoying it.  I'll try to do that this year again.
Q. Is there a feeling that maybe Andy is slightly more vulnerable than years before?
ALJAZ BEDENE: I hope not, because he's always dangerous.  I think probably his best surface is grass.  I don't think he lost last year -- he lost one match the year before, so, I mean, it's a good record.  I think he's going to be strong here and at Wimbledon.
Q. When was the last time you practiced with him?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Not this year.  Last year.
Q. What would you say are his particular strengths on grass?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, great movement, great returns, fighting, putting every ball back.  I mean, he's just awkward to play.  He's giving his best on every surface, but, you know, if you give every return back, if you give everything on grass, that's great.
Q. How do approach playing someone like that?  How do you kind of believe you can win that match, knowing he's going to get so much back into court?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, how do you approach that.  I mean, I'll try to play my game.  Just be offensive.  Try to do as little mistakes as possible.  But, you know, it's different because he's really moving well on grass.  Played last week where players were still, you know, slipping a little bit, and where I think even if that's his first match on grass -- I mean, that's his home tournament, really, so he's going to move well.  I'm just going to try to play my game.
Q. Are you concerned that sometimes the grass here is a little bit more slippery than other places?  I mean, you saw Kyrgios go today.
ALJAZ BEDENE: No, I haven't seen what Nick did.  Yeah, it's a little bit more slippery.  But grass is grass.  You can't always make it dry (smiling).
I do remember I fell once while running for it.  I mean, last year I played on a wet surface on Court No. 1, but, you know, grass is a different surface and we just have to accept it.
Q. Stephen Farrow is obviously the tournament director here.  Have you had a chance to talk to him about the way forward with your case and what conversations have there been to clarify your position and the LTA's position going forward?
ALJAZ BEDENE: About?
Q. About you and wanting to play Davis Cup for Britain.
ALJAZ BEDENE: No, haven't had the chance.  Well, obviously I have to focus on the tournament first and then I will speak to him.
Q. But after what happened in Paris, did you have any talks with anyone, with Leon, to clarify what it was you wanted to do next and have a go at it?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Not yet, but I think we spoke about that earlier, before, from the French Open.
Yeah, nothing really.  So we'll have to speak either after Wimbledon or after Queen's.
Q. When you play this time of year in Britain, obviously here, Eastbourne next week, and Wimbledon after that, do you still have your house here?  Do you stay there or in an accommodation?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, it's tough to stay in my house, because on a good day it takes me an hour.  On a bad day, three hours.  Don't want to stay there, really.
So I've got an accommodation here.
Q. Do you still have the house, though?  Obviously you're spending a lot of time practicing in England.
ALJAZ BEDENE: I do.  I mean, I think that's a perfect place to be in, and I love that house.  It's still mine.
Q. How much time do you get to spend in it?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, I'm traveling a lot, so not much.  But every time I'm in there, obviously I want to enjoy it, because we did spend quite a lot of money into making it "perfect."
Q. Are you playing next week?
ALJAZ BEDENE: I'm signed for Eastbourne, so we'll see how everything goes.  I would like to, yeah.
Q. Do you think if there is a time to play Andy on grass, is it first round of Queen's, given the conditions and the slickness of the court?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, I would prefer to play him in the final, really (smiling), or semi.  But, no, I don't think there is a good day to play Andy.  He's always going to be dangerous.
Q. Who would you see at this stage as the favorites to win Wimbledon?
ALJAZ BEDENE: I would say Andy.  You know, obviously Queen's is the second biggest tournament on grass, and it's a good preparation for Wimbledon.
So that's why so many great players pick it.  Andy loves it.  And, yeah, I think he's the favorite.
Q. You would put him ahead of Federer, for example?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah.  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT