ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2017
Aljaz Bedene
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. VESELY/A. Bedene
6-3, 6-3, 4-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How tough was it to get into the game, especially sort of his serve.  He's got quite a big serve.
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah.  Well, I needed two sets, really, to get into the match.  The beginning wasn't good.  Actually, his serves weren't a problem.  I think more that I played the wrong tactic, played too much to his backhand, which is his bad shot.  And then I changed that a bit more to his forehand.
And I think in the fourth set I was better, a better player.  And then, yeah, lost that one game.  Had, I think, four games chances to break him but didn't take it, which is a shame because I actually felt really good.
Q. Did you feel that he looked like he was tiring a bit there towards the end?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Yeah, I mean, obviously, he wasn't serving as well, so fatigue set in.
I think I played the right style in the third and the fourth set, just those break points.  It's a bit annoying when you have so many break points but you don't break.  And I think if I was the same as I played in the third set, it would be better but that was my mistake.
Q. It's probably only fair that we give the opportunity just to clarify some of the issues that we were talking about the other day.  Have you had any contact with the Slovenian Tennis Federation about potential of changing back and would you -- is your preferred option still to have another go with the ITF with regarding to playing for Britain?
ALJAZ BEDENE: If it looks like it's finished, I'll fight.  So when I said my dream is to play Olympic Games and I'll see that can be done, I meant I will contact Stephen Farrow and speak to him and nothing else.  So, yeah, when I read those things online, it was awkward a bit.
But, yeah, just until it looks like it's done.  It's not done for me.  You know, I've been fighting for so long to get a chance to play the Davis Cup and Olympic Games for GB, and I'm still hoping.
Q. What avenues are open to you now?  What happens next?
ALJAZ BEDENE: As I said, I wasn't thinking about it.  But, yeah, grass season is coming.  So I'll be closer to Steven, so I'll be able to speak to him and the options.  But, yeah, at the moment I have no idea.
Q. You say speaking to Stephen.  Given Stephen's job is at Queen's, do you not feel any sort of obligation to play Queen's for all the work he's done for you?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, you know, I really wanted to play Queen's.  But last year was really bad, and my coach said, This year you're going to listen to me.  And I said, Okay.
So one of the things is that we'll skip Queen's and play Halle instead.  Because he doesn't see me playing there my best tennis.  So I listened, so yeah.
Q. That's Nick Cavaday?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Don't hate him for that.  He's a really nice guy.
Q. You've now got time from here.  Where are you going now and would you fit in another grass tournament?
ALJAZ BEDENE: What do you mean with "another" grass tournament?
Q. As well as Halle before Wimbledon.
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, I'm playing Hertogenbosch in Holland.  Yeah, I'm actually just going now into the gym and prepare.  I think it's 45-minute session with my fitness coach already preparing for grass.  So good.  I'll be fit as well.
Q. Since it's the issue of the week, are you saying that you definitely would not, under any circumstances, go back to playing for Slovenia?
ALJAZ BEDENE: Well, you know, I haven't considered that at all.  And as I said, I want to play Olympic Games, but my first priority at the moment is to keep fighting and see what happens.
Q. So why is Halle so much better for your game than Queen's?
ALJAZ BEDENE: We'll see that.  I don't know.  I'm enjoying Queen's.  I think it's one of the best tournaments.  But, yeah, I have to listen to Nick and I trust him.  So we'll see.
Q. So what did Nick say, then, as to why it's better for you?
ALJAZ BEDENE: The conditions in general are a little bit slower.  I don't know.  We'll see.  If I lose first round, he's not getting fired.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT