SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2015
Sierra Michaelis
Robin Pingeton
Morgan Stock
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We are joined by Missouri head coach and student‑athletes Sierra Michaelis and Morgan Stock. 
COACH PINGETON:   I'm just really proud of our team.   We just had a crazy year with so many challenges.   We weathered the storm.   It's always tough, last game is always a tough one.   Wouldn't trade my girls for the world.   Love them to death. 
We've continued to grow throughout the course of this year.   Tonight, give Georgia credit, I felt like they were the aggressors.   We had a hard time keeping them off the boards.   I thought we did a better job taking care of the ball.   The difference to me came down to the rebounding.   We just had a hard time eliminating those second‑shot opportunities. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Jordan has been big for you all year.   Georgia limited her to five points tonight. 
COACH PINGETON:   She only played 22 minutes.   It's tough to get a lot done.   I just never felt like she really got into a flow. 
Thought they did a good job of double‑teaming.   I think just even making it hard for her to cut.   They would beat her to the spot, take her off her path a little bit.   I thought she had some tough calls.   Never had a good rhythm. 
When she got her fourth, we had a player at the score table to rotate in for her.   She picked up that last one before we had a chance to get her out.   I thought that was critical for us. 
She's one of our best rebounders.   I think she definitely could have helped us on the boards there those last seven and a half minutes. 

Q.   You mentioned Juanita was there at the table for Jordan.   Why not immediately after the fourth foul have her subbed out?
COACH PINGETON:   Yeah, I thought about it.   Just felt like, you know, we were‑‑ I liked where we're at.   Jordan has been in that position before.   You hope you see growth in your players in regards to just being able to play with fouls. 
Honestly, I thought they were tough calls.   Those are going to happen, absolutely.   But I felt comfortable with her out there.   I felt confident with her.   But once she got that fourth, we knew we needed to make that rotation.   We just couldn't make that substitution quick enough. 

Q.   Girls, after you fell behind, you made charge after charge, could never get over the hump.   Was it an energy thing? 
MORGAN STOCK:   I mean, I think our energy was there.   I think we needed to stick together and we did.   I think there were some things that didn't fall in place that we needed them to. 
But overall I think we did a good job sticking together and trying to pick each other up whenever those kind of things happened. 

Q.   Coach, career night for Sierra.   Talk about her performance. 
COACH PINGETON:   Sierra is a great player.   I mean, the ceiling is so high for her.   But really, you know, as of the last, gosh, handful of games, five, six, seven games she's been playing well. 
Going into tonight's game, she was shooting 77% from the three‑point line, 50% from the field, close to a double‑double.   She's been really playing well as of late.   I think she's playing with a lot of confidence, which is great.   She's only a sophomore. 
Think about how bright the future is for us.   But not surprised.   She's got a great feel for the game, understanding of the game.   She's deceiving on the court.   She has the ability to score in a variety of ways. 
Defensively she may not have the same athleticism as some kids out there, but she's got quick hands.   She anticipates well.   Glad to have her back for a couple more years, there's no doubt. 

Q.   Sierra, what were you feeling the last five minutes without Jordan and without Lindsey?
SIERRA MICHAELIS:   Last five minutes it was mostly guards.   I was thinking drive, kick, if not I have a drive. 
Kind of hard not having a post player in there with their bigs, from a boxing standpoint.   Our 2‑1‑2 is really effective against Georgia. 

Q.   You guys have had a lot of injuries already this year.   When you lose your leading scorer to fouls, Lindsey to injury, do you think you have enough out there to make one last charge? 
COACH PINGETON:   It definitely hurts us.   Jordan is such a huge part of what we do.   I think Lindsey brings a lot of intangibles to the table with her grit, passion, how hard she plays. 
With that being said, I did think we still had enough on the court.   I think we're a possession away from taking the lead.   Then we had that turnover on the out‑of‑bounds play.   I think we're down one at that point.   Then there's another possession down four, had a chance to cut it to one, missed a three. 
So, yeah, I felt really good about the kids that were on the court.   I think the biggest challenge was our ability to eliminate the second‑shot opportunities.   But that was for the full 40 minutes.   I didn't think we got off to a great start.   Then we kind of regrouped, made a run there towards the end of the first half. 
Coming out of the gates in the second half, I didn't think we were on point.   Had a couple looks, we didn't finish.   Then we made some runs. 
For the most part, it's always going to be a game of runs, but we had some opportunities, and key possessions weren't able to capitalize on. 

Q.   Morgan, you made a back‑cut layup for a three‑point play.   What were you feeling at that point during that run? 
MORGAN STOCK:   Specifically I was thinking, Great pass, because it was a perfect pass.   I was really excited.   I just wanted to keep pressing forward. 
I know my teammates were feeling the same way, so... 

Q.   Coach, have you had a chance to check on Lindsey just yet?
COACH PINGETON:   She was in the locker room.   She has an awfully big egg on her head.   She hit pretty hard.   I have no idea if it's concussion or not.   She took a pretty good blow.   But she has all feeling and movement, so she'll be okay. 
One of the toughest kids I know. 

Q.   Morgan, you had a look at three.   Sierra passed it to you on the wing.   Did you feel good about that shot?
MORGAN STOCK:   I did.   Every one of my shots I think 'in'.   If it goes out, it's going to be a long rebound kind of thing.   But, yes, most of the shots I shoot, it's a yes shot, so... 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, ladies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT