ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 19, 2013
JB Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell us about a wonderful day because you really got that going from the start.   
JB HANSEN:   Just played great all day.   Keep the ball in play and I holed the important putts I needed to hole.   Hit a few bad putts, but which I can check I'm very happy.  
   
 Q.   What made the difference today compared to the two previous days?  
JB HANSEN:   What makes it different‑‑ I had a good caddie on my bag today.   Didn't really know where the wind was today and he did a great job out there.   
   
 Q.   You're standing there getting wet, sorry about that, but how much difference about the weather actually make to the round?  
JB HANSEN:   Make it quite difficult, windy; a few times, very heavy rain makes it a bit tougher.  
   
 Q.   The greens themselves have been rock hard all week.   Has the rain softened those, made them more approachable?   
JB HANSEN:   They are softer, definitely.   Same speed almost.   But I think the greens played easier today.   
   
 Q.   When you started today, did you think about the possibility of ending up as a leader?   
JB HANSEN:   The possibility is always there when you make the cut, but no, I just wanted to get out and make a good round.   
   
 Q.   So now that you are in this position, what are your thoughts into the final day?   
JB HANSEN:   Going to have fun tomorrow and enjoy.   I'm on top of the leaderboard, so see what it brings.  
   
 Q.   You might get into Dubai if you carry on at this rate.   
JB HANSEN:   That's another opportunity.  
   
 Q.   You must be delighted with that score.   
JB HANSEN:   Yeah, it's a great score, just what I needed, this round to move up in the field.   Hopefully be in a good position tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You haven't played a lot of tournaments on The European Tour; is this the best round you've had in the conditions?  
JB HANSEN:   One of them, definitely.   One of my best rounds in a lot of rain and a lot of wind today.   
   
 Q.   The golf course itself, you're used to playing this style of golf course?   
JB HANSEN:   I have played it before, this kind of golf course, but I like this golf course, very good golf course.   Hit very good shots and the greens are firm, so you need to hit great iron shots.   
   
 Q.   The secret to your round today, six birdies, was it the iron play or your putter was hot?  
JB HANSEN:   Both.   My putter was hot and the iron play was very good today.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT