ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2013
JB Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Despite the finish, how proud are you of what you achieved today? 
JB HANSEN:   Very disappointed.   Finish 3‑over the last four holes is not what I expected.   Didn't have the pace on the last holes. 

Q.   You made 9 at your second hole; that would have broken most experienced players.   You made seven birdies in your next eight holes, that's incredible.   How did you do that? 
JB HANSEN:   I had a good feeling with my game and my putting, especially.   I just keep hitting the ball the right places on the green, and hoped to hole the putts, and I did it. 

Q.   When you got into the lead with four holes to go on your own, tell us how your emotions were at that stage. 
JB HANSEN:   Felt pretty good.   I had really good of all my nerves.   Really had the feeling I could win this.

Q.   How valuable will this experience be, when you look back it‑‑ you're disappointed now, but when you look back, how valuable will this experience be in your future?
JB HANSEN:   Very valuable.   Played fantastic golf this week, just what I needed at this time of the season. 

Q.   You came into this event 175th in The Race to Dubai and you needed something to happen; something has happened and this cheque will go a long way to that. 
JB HANSEN:   Feel very good, still disappointed with my finish. 

Q.   I know your overwhelming emotion is one of disappointment, clearly, of not pulling this off but a remarkable round of golf today.   How do you reflect on that today? 
JB HANSEN:   Being 4‑over after two holes was not what I wanted but I made five birdies in a row, or I made seven on eight holes.   The game is very good, and I holed some very long putts and everything just flipped.

Q.   That quadruple bogey at the second hole would have sunk many a lesser player; why did it galvanise you?   What did you tell yourself at that point?
JB HANSEN:   I don't think the people expect me to win this tournament, so that's not the thing.   Try and be relaxed and just do the best I can. 

Q.   When you saw your name at the top of the leaderboard and the few holes coming in, how did you feel at that point?   Were you comfortable under the pressure?
JB HANSEN:   Very comfortable, had a great feeling and very glad.   Had control over my feelings and my nerves.   The last three bogeys is, just, yeah, a miss. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT