U.S. OPEN
September 7, 1995
Gigi Fernandez
Cyril Suk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Game 7 in the second set where they broke you at deuce; that was a great rally that went on for, I don't know how long, you seemed upset; was that with yourself when you threw the racket?
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:   I will take the fifth on that.  I was upset, yes. 
 

Q.  I mean, it was a great point, did you ...
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:   I was upset the whole day, so just the way it goes. 
 

Q.  Why were you upset?
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:   I would definitely take the fifth on that. 
 

Q.  How do you feel they played as a team?  Were you surprised that they played pretty well considering they hadn't played together before?
 
CYRIL SUK:  Well, until 4-1 I was not surprised.  I thought we are going to win and after that they picked up the game and they started to play  much better and we actually, I would say, started to play a little bit worse and then it was the turning point of the whole match, so they really played good together, so they deserved to win. 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  I was also surprised because they are both good doubles players; when you put doubles players together normally they make a good team. 
 

Q.  Have you played with your sister Helena?
 
CYRIL SUK:  Yes, I have. 
 

Q.  Mixed?
 
CYRIL SUK:  Yes.  We have won French Open in  '92, I guess, or '91.  I am not sure about that. 
 

Q.  Are you ready for the U.S. Open, women's open doubles?
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  We are not going for the Grand Slam.  There is no pressure. 
 

Q.  It feels a little easier this time?
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Oh, yeah.  I knew in Australia --  didn't know, but had a pretty good feeling.  We felt pretty much good to win this tournament when we lost Australia; I said, oh, well, we will win U.S. Open.  Coming here without that is a huge relief where you are actually having fun when we are playing and, you know, we have tough matches tomorrow.  I think if we get through that one, we have a good chance of winning. 
 

Q.  Any thoughts on Conchita's match tomorrow?
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Yeah, it's going to be a good match. 
 

Q.  Do you think she is pretty well geared up to play her top?
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  You have to ask Conchita. 
 

Q.  What do you think, though?
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  It is up to Conchita really.  If Conchita plays well and has a good attitude, she can win.  If she had an attitude like she did yesterday, she is going to get killed.  It is really up to her; whether it is going to be a good match or not. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT