U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1995
Gigi Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Gigi, when Chanda was in here a couple of days ago, she was speaking a lot about the
confidence she got from this summer. But it also looks like she has worked on her game a
lot. Do you see her developments in both ways that she --
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: It's hard. I only played her this summer. I played her three times this
summer. I think she always had that game, that big hitting game and she learned how to
control it a little bit. I don't think she improved her forehand or backhand. I think she
always had those shots; just that she learned how to go for the forehand winner at the
right time and not just whenever.  
 
Q. She spoke about the help that the match at Wimbledon had given her; that she has
learned how never to give up and to consolidate her leads. That just those matches made
her more mature; can you see that in her game?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Yeah, I mean, when you come down from 5-Love in the third, 5-1, got to
give you a lot of confidence and help you believe that it is never over until you shake
hands. And right now she is riding on that wave and it will probably last for a little
longer. And then, you know, what happens is it happens to you one time. It's the
flip-side. Then you realize, you know, you get nervous. Now she hasn't dealt with that
because she has been playing so well.  
 
Q. How would you project her match against Graf?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: I think it will be a great matchup. I think, she has a very good chance
to beat Steffi -- she has got the power. You need power to beat Steffi; she can also come
in. When she beat Arantxa and Gaby and was -- she came in. When she plays me, she can't
come in because I get there before she does. When she is playing a baseliner, she has got
a solid deep approach shot, very solid volley. If she attacks Steffi's backhand and her
forehand is in control, I think, she has a very good chance. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT