U.S. OPEN
September 6, 1994
Gigi Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Only if it's you.  
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  No, I don't.  I might not agree, but --  
 

Q.  Gigi, did the slow start you got off, was that -- did you feel like you were climbing a mountain the rest of the way? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Yeah, felt little bit like I did agains Martina at Wimbledon.  I wasn't quite used to the surroundings, and it's my first singles match on Center Court in four, five years and the last time I was -- was against Seles in singles.  
 

Q.  You did play there, though? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Yes, played Seles.  Didn't do so well, so I was going in kind of a little intimidated, and if I'd broken at 3-Love, I think I had a couple breakpoints in the first set, it might have been a different set, but then I get ahead, and I had two bad matches the beginning of the match, at 3-Love I lost, I think, 13 straight points, and you can't do that at this level-- on any level, you know, particularly against a player like Gaby.  You can't give her 13 points and expect to win a set and I almost did, but that is not good.  
 

Q.  At one point you actually were laughing in the first set, was that just nervous laughter, like, I can't even believe -- 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  When you're-- like, when you've lost 14 point in a row you have to start to do something to try to get out of it, and for me, usually laughter relaxes me.  That's why I laughed so much, or try to.  
 

Q.  Do you find it hard to believe that considering her talent and what she's done in the past that she's gone so long without winning 40 some-odd -- 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  No, it is not that easy to win a tournament and the competition is so strong.  You know, if you're not -- I think that her game has always been there, but I think she lost a little of the mental edge and if you lose that, you're not going to win some tough matches you need to in a tournament.  
 

Q.  How do you think she lost that mental edge? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  How?  
 

Q.  Yeah, or what -- 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  I don't know, ask her.  Maybe she got burned out a little bit.  Maybe she wasn't happy with her life.  It can be many different things or maybe it's just too much tennis.  She's been on the tour for, I don't know, longer than I have, anyways or for just as long, that's pretty long.  
 

Q.  How much does it affect your game -- the injury on your right thigh? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Not at all, it was just for protection.  It didn't affect me.  
 

Q.  Was being on Stadium Court more nerve-racking than being on center stage at Wimbledon with Martina -- 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Not even close.  
 

Q.  Did that prepare you for this? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Yes, to a certain degree, but it's still different, it's so big here, it was hard -- I found it hard to pick up the ball when I had the sun behind me, so when the sun was hitting the stands, I was having a hard time finding the ball in the beginning, and at Wimbledon, you don't have that problem trying to find the ball, the surroundings are perfect and you can always pick up the ball.  And also I haven't played Gaby in I don't know how long, her spin takes a while to get used to.  
 

Q.  When you saw a couple of those 46-mile per hour serves -- 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  My mother can serve harder than that. But that's what I was telling myself, but the worst part is I was missing the returns.  
 

Q.  I think -- I was wondering, were you thinking, "She's gagging as badly as I am"? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  You assume that I was gagging.  
 

Q.  Couple times, maybe. 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  No, I don't think I gagged, I wasn't in a position to gag.  I wasn't serving for the set and just lost my concentration at 3-Love basically, but no, got kind of comical at the end because those doublefaults, she did that didn't get to the net, but I understand that because I've been through it and everybody gets nervous and a little humor and you just have to keep fighting and she came through with some big passing shots.  
 

Q.  Gigi, do you think she is playing well enough to win the tournament? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Well, if she hits her first serve, you know, when she getting her first serve in it was-- and it was hard to come in on it, but if she hits the soft first serve, Arantxa is going to jump off all over it.  I don't-- unless she serves really well and attacks, I don't see how she's going to beat Arantxa  from the baseline.  
 

Q.  Second serve in the -- near the end that bounce into the net -- 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Yes, two of them.  
 

Q.  Have you ever seen anything like that? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  I have seen everything.  
 

Q.  You've seen that? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  I have, yeah.  Everybody gets tight, it's no big deal.  
 

Q.  You don't think she could have lost it in the sun -- 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  No, it was the other side.  No excuse.  
 

Q.  We've brought up this losing patch she's had, and you offered a suggestion maybe it was the mental edge; do you see anything different in her now; she feels like her confidence is back? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Well, I think maybe perhaps hiring Juan Nunez helped her confidence a little bit, her new coach.  I noticed she's playing better, I just noticed it at Boston playing an exhibition with her, she seemed to be hitting the ball better and I think maybe Juan has helped her a little bit, I don't know in which way, but that was my impression.  
 

Q.  Did you work with him at one time? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Juan, no.  
 

Q.  Some of her passing shots seemed like she gave you no pace, is it hard to volley stuff like that; she cracked it passed you, it kind of floated and it seemed like a lot on the forehand-- 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  It's usually harder to volley if the ball has no pace than a hard hit ball unless a winner.  I'd rather have a soft hit good passing shot -- like I had her 3-Love Love-40 and then I -- she hit an incredible forehand that I probably should have gone inside with my shot to her backhand because her court was wide open and I lost my concentration after that and lost 14 straight points, but that was a great shot because if I get up two breaks second set I probably would have won the second set.  
 

Q.  Gigi, you talked earlier in the tournament about how, since Wimbledon, you hadn't really thought about the doubles and your Slam chances were there, does that change now; what will be your attitude in that regard? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Once you get to the tournament, you have to think about it.  So we have been thinking about it-- not the Slam per se, just trying to win every match we play and, you know, it's never good to lose, but I concentrate on the doubles and I still have the mixed, so I'll have some extra rest.  
 

Q.  And healthwise I noticed other day you had ice on the shoulder? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  I'm fine, fine.  
 

Q.  Do you take a lot of treatment every day? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Yes, I just pulled a muscle and it healed fast.  It didn't bother me today at all.  
 

Q.  And Zvereva? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  She's 100% as well as.  
 

Q.  Earlier you were talking about quitting singles-- semifinals at Wimbledon and quarterfinals U.S. Open; what have you learned about yourself this year? 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Just basically that I can play singles at this level, and I think if I played a few more matches like this I can win some of these.  I did it at Wimbledon, I think I might be able to do it here under -- I don't know, I think I could have won the second set and probably could have won the match if I hadn't started so slow.  I think I would get used to these situations if I play well, and 30 is not too old.  That's the other thing I learned, because I was starting to feel like I was towards the end of my career in singles because of my age as well, I've been playing for ten years, but this is my best -- in terms of Grand Slams, this is my best year in singles, so, I'm still excited about it.  
 

Q.  In the second set-- at the changeover in the second set when the score was 4-5, were you trying to speak in sign language and to whom were you trying to attract attention-- 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Me?  
 

Q.  Yes. 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  Probably somebody -- I think I was 40-Love up at 4-All-- was I?  Maybe that's what you're alluding to.  I think I had some point opportunities that I didn't take in the game and that's critical when you're at 40-Love, you have to win the game and that's what I was probably saying, probably, 40-Love.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT