U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1994
Gigi Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you play much better than that? 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Can I?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Under the circumstances, probably not. It was pretty windy and
difficult to play today, so I was happy with that.  
 
Q. Do you consider yourself a real good wind player? 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Wind player? Yeah, there was one year in Eastbourne about four years
ago and I had a week of practice in the wind, it was a week before, and since that, I
mean, I handled the wind pretty well in all the situations. It was three times worse than
this at Eastbourne.  
 
Q. That was four years ago? 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: About four years ago. I don't remember exactly the year.  
 
Q. How do you learn to play in the wind? 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: How?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: You have to change your game a little bit. You can't go for the big
first serve because the toss is all over the place. You have to be a little more safe,
just -- when you're with the wind you have to shorten your backswing, and when you're with
the wind, you have to hit out more. So it is a little tactical -- you have to make some
tactical changes and fortunately I'm able to do that. Some players play the same way in
the wind and when it's still and that's why they have trouble.  
 
Q. You had a game plan going in that you just tried to come forward on everything,
right? 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Yeah, well that's my game plan against anybody pretty much. So, you
know, it was to come into her forehand, short to her forehand as much as I could and it
was difficult because of the wind, or come to her backhand because her favorite shot is a
run-around forehand.  
 
Q. How do you analyze your position now in the tournament? 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: I don't know, I just know that I play Gaby and I've played some close
matches against her when she was ranked a lot higher. And I feel good about my chances. I
think it is a good quarter final for me. Last time I made the quarters here I played
Seles, so it was more difficult.  
 
Q. What year was that? 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: I think it was 90, 1990 -- actually it was '91, actually. I don't know,
ask them.  
 
Q. Are you playing better now than you were in '91? 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Yes, much better, and I've had a semifinal in Wimbledon to sort of lean
on that I didn't have the last -- first quarterfinal Grand Slam I didn't play very well.
Performed well in the semifinals at Wimbledon, so I think I can be relaxed and when I can
be relaxed. I can play my best tennis.  
 
Q. Does Helgeson have a pretty good future in tennis? 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: How old is she?  
 
Q. 25? 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: She's great player. She's fit, she has a great game, she comes in,
which few players are doing these days.  
 
Q. She didn't get in against you? 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: She didn't?  
 
Q. No. 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Well, it's hard against me, because I come in so much, I totally
overwhelm most players. I'm serving and volleying first and sometimes second serve and
coming in off the first serve, so, you know, it's tough to serve and volley in the wind
but -- when she played Conchita and she beat her, she came in a little bit. So -- more,
more than she did today.  
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT