U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1994
Gigi Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: I won, by the way. 

Q. You were up on her serve -- 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: It -- she played -- actually, she didn't do anything, I just missed. I
just started thinking I was going to win a little too soon, because if I broke her 5-1 and
I was serving very well at that time, it would have been over. I did the same thing at 2-1
in the second set. 

Q. While serving at 5-3, having match point, did you realize that she bent down when
you were volleying -- when you mishit -- 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: Did she bend down? No, she hit a good return and it was on my shoetops
and I just placed it. Nothing you could do, just try and make it, but I was a little tight
at that point. I -- if I had broken her at 2-1 in the second, it would have been like 2-2.
Probably last time I played her two or three years ago, would it have been like that, it
got tight. 

Q. Gigi, how do you compare the way you're playing now as to the way you were playing
at Wimbledon? 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: It's different. Much more comfortable on grass, and my points are much
less comfortable on grass most of the time. But I'm playing well, I'm hitting the ball
well and I'm serving well. Although, my serve machine may be broken, because my serve was
up there and I don't know if it's the machine or my serve improved that much since
Wimbledon. But -- and I'm fitter, my legs are fit. I'm moving better and nothing hurts,
yet. So, I'm relaxed and looking forward to singles and doubles this year. 

Q. Do you have any specific expectation in singles? Can we look to you to upset another
seed or two? 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: No, I'm not looking that far. I know who my next seed will be, somebody
told me, but I'm just looking ahead-- 

Q. Martina said recently that tennis ought to go back to wooden rackets. Do you have
any reaction to that and did you ever play with a wooden racket? 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: Yeah, I did when I started. I definitely played with a wooden racket
and I played in college -- actually in college I switched to graphite, but I think it
suits serve and volleyers. It's much harder to pass with a wooden racket or a racket that
doesn't have much -- as much power. It's much more difficult now to cover the net than it
used to be. I don't know, it feels like when you play players that aren't hitting hard you
can cover more, but going back to wooden rackets, I think is a bit drastic. Maybe graphite
instead of wide bodies, because wide bodies really gave women a lot more power. I don't
think for the women. I think you should start thinking about the men more. I think the
women's game has been helped by the graphite rackets. 

Q. Can you described the severity of your doubles partner's injury? 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: The severity? Well, she did it at Wimbledon in round 16 and it was
pretty bad at the Federation Cup. Stress fracture on the third rib. She hasn't played
since Fed Cup and just started practicing about five days ago, so that's the main thing.
She hasn't had any match practice or match preparation. She's not under any pain at the
moment, but on the stress fractures, they can come back with use, so, I'll try and help
out and maybe by serving first every set and limit her serving time. 

Q. Do you look to those machines to give you sort of a reading on how you're serving? 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: I was because I was shocked that I was serving 103 and 104 and my first
serves are on the high 90's and normally I serve 101 when I really hit hard, so, I don't
know whether it improved my serve or if the machine was broken. I think it's the latter of
the two. 

Q. I always get the impression you enjoy doubles more than singles; is that wrong, or
if it's right, has that changed? 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: It's different because you have somebody on the court to have fun with.
When you're out there all by yourself and things aren't going so well, it's easy to sort
of get down on yourself and not have somebody to help you get out of it. 

Q. Has that changed since Wimbledon? 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: Yeah, it definitely changed. I think since Wimbledon I am enjoying
myself on the singles court even when I have lost, which is the hardest thing to do. I've
had two 6-4 in the third losses and I was -- even though it is not fun to lose 6-4 in the
third, I feel enjoyed myself. 

Q. Do you feel that you've perhaps wasted some time in singles? 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: Wasted time? 

Q. Yeah, you played so well at Wimbledon and you've played so well other times in other
years that do you think you sort of gave singles the brush; you always knew the doubles
was there; do you think you deprived yourself? 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: If I did it, wasn't intentional. I always worked or tried to work on
the singles and I always -- I was -- I can say except for last year when we were going for
the Grand Slam I never focused on those in my career and I never will again, because last
year we put way too much pressure on ourselves during the Grand Slam. And you know, if I
was 25 now instead of 30, my might feel differently about it, you know, but maybe that
came a little too late in my career, but there's nothing you can do about it. It came and
I'm glad and I end my career on a happy note. 

Q. What percentage would you put Natasha's play at? 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: What percentage? 

Q. Yes. 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: I don't know, we haven't played. We played against each other in Boston
Smash Hits Elton John's exhibition and she was a little off. Like she was maybe ten
percent -- no, but she was maybe fifty percent, but I've been saying all along that
Natasha at 70 percent is better for me than any doubles player in the world. So we're
going to play even if she's ten percent. Even if she has to serve underhand, we're going
to give it the go. 

Q. Gigi, you just said you put too much pressure on yourself last year to win the Grand
Slam; here you are again, you have another opportunity. What are you going to do different
this time? 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: We already have. I think what has been different is last year from the
second we won Wimbledon we were both stressed out for the next two months. We were like --
it's hard to describe, but just thinking about it all day and looking forward to it. And
this time I've not thought about it once or twice, and it's just that we're taking it just
as another tournament. I think Natasha's injury has helped mentally because we don't -- we
kind of feel like lucky that you're able to even go out on the court and give it a shot,
and if she was fit, we would definitely be favorites. But with her fitness, it's kind of
up in the air who's going to win. 

Q. Martina was just selected president in the WTA; is she going to take the tour on a
different direction; should we expect some immediate changes? 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: I haven't spoken with her about it. I don't think she will. I think it
will continue on the path it's and going on and I think it's great for the game that a top
player like her can give something back. I think all of our top players need to be more
involved and I think they will be in the future. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT