US OPEN
September 6, 1997
Gigi Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Gigi, in your years on the circuit, what has been the very best thing that you have
liked about the sport of tennis, about being a touring professional? 
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: I think it gave me the opportunity to grow as a human and learn about
myself, you know. It's a great arena for that. You really get to know yourself when you're
out there in front of all those people. It's a great tool for that. 
 
Q. The one thing you learned the most from that?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Just how to handle myself, you know. The difference between me 15 years
ago and now, I'm like another person. I was a little spoiled brat when I started. I just
learned how to be nice and gracious while competing. That's not an easy thing. It's
missing from a lot of the Juniors, something that takes time to learn. 
 
Q. What was the difference today? Why did they win, either ladies?
 
 NATASHA ZVEREVA: Who is that for?  
 
Q. Either lady.
 
 NATASHA ZVEREVA: You have to call names. That would be easier. 
 
Q. Natasha, why did they win today?
 
 NATASHA ZVEREVA: Once again. One more time. 
 
Q. Why did they win? What was the difference? What did they do better today?
 
 NATASHA ZVEREVA: Basically, pretty much outplayed. I felt like they outplayed us. Their
returns were the key to the match. 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: We had our chances in the first set. We had a lot of break
opportunities. Kind of couldn't, I don't know -- we had chances. A couple games we could
have broken to get back in the first set, get up a break in the first set. They was a
little bit better. Bigger serves, bigger returns from Lindsay. That's tennis. 
 
Q. Gigi, what will you miss most?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Me? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Competing. Actually being out there, trying to come up with the shot
when it counts. 
 
Q. What do you like least about the circuit?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Everything else. Everything that goes with it. You know, the traveling,
the hotels, the room service, being on the road 40 weeks out of the year. 
 
Q. That's all?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Do you want me to keep going (laughter)? The last is like (indicating).
It's a tough decision. I'm happy that I'm going out on a good year. I feel like I'm -- I
don't want to go out losing first and second rounds. I appreciate Natasha having finished
this year with me. I'm happy. Get to see my family. I've seen my family three weeks a year
for the last 15 years. Need to spend a little time with him. 
 
Q. Natasha, how is it going to be for you? You and Gigi have won so many titles
together. How will it be for you out there without her?
 
 NATASHA ZVEREVA: Nothing really change except that I'll miss her as a partner. That's
it. 
 
Q. What made her so special as a partner for you?
 
 NATASHA ZVEREVA: Well, all these years basically. The whole experience, the whole
partnership. Be able to work things out and argue, you know. All these things. It's a very
good experience. 
 
Q. How disappointing is it to have lost a Grand Slam?
 
 NATASHA ZVEREVA: It's disappointing enough. It's not really a big deal. I wouldn't
really consider, even if I won today, I don't think I would consider myself as a Grand
Slam. To me, you're supposed to do it as a team. 
 
Q. Why didn't you and Gigi play together at the Australian?
 
 NATASHA ZVEREVA: Broke up. 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Divorce. 
 
Q. Divorce or trial sep?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: It was supposed to be a divorce. We broke up after the US Open last
year. Then I asked Natasha in April to finish this year with me. She was partnerless. Kind
of screwed her out of the other partner. We won the French, won Wimbledon. 15 Grand Slams
together. It's been a great thing for both of us. 
 
Q. Do you have California connections? Do you have a community property thing going on
or is it strictly separate?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Very funny. 
 
Q. Gigi, now that you're leaving tennis, eventually leaving, do you like the direction
of women's tennis?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Do I like it? 
 
Q. The direction it's going in.
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Yes. I think it's very exciting right now, women's tennis, particularly
in comparison with the men. You look at who is here in the semifinals, men and women. You
have to say the women have a little more to offer at this point. It's funny, because it's
very cyclical. Three years ago they were saying women's tennis was dead, saying we can't
sell. Now, we've got Venus, Martina, Anna Kournikova, Lindsay coming into her own. I think
it's exciting. 
 
Q. Guys, Venus has come under a lot of criticism the last five days from other notable
players about being unpleasant and unsportsmanlike. Have you been in contact with her in
the locker room, and do you think she is not such a nice person to be around? If not,
where is it all coming from?
 
 NATASHA ZVEREVA: Well, all I want to say is that's her own deal, whatever she wants to
do doesn't bother me, so. There you go. 
 
Q. What about you, Gigi?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: I think she's very young. Not only is she young, but she didn't have
the junior arena to kind of grow in. She kind of was thrown into the pros. You know, I
think she has to show a little respect sometimes for her elders. 
 
Q. Her parents have alluded to the possibility that it might be a race issue. Do you
guys think that's true?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: No, absolutely not. There's no racism on the women's Tour. We've had
Sena and Lori on The Tour. No prejudice that way. I adamantly deny that.  
 NATASHA ZVEREVA: The best friends on The Tour are Bolle, Katrina, Nicole. 
 
Q. Do you think it might be the race issue from the other side, from her point?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: You have to ask them. That's a possibility. I don't know. I can tell
you that it's more her actions, the way she carries herself in the locker room, not so
much her appearance or her race. 
 
Q. Is this your last tournament as a team or are you playing out the rest of the year?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: Finish the year. We're playing Japan and the Championships. 
 
Q. So you're retiring at the end of this year?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: My last Grand Slam. 
 
Q. What are you going to be doing, Gigi?
 
 GIGI FERNANDEZ: I'm going to have fun. I want to stay involved in tennis somewhat. I've
been talking to the USTA about staying involved in their program, expand tennis in the
country. I want to work with kids. I'm going to make myself available to different
organizations, different clubs, to go play with Juniors, talk to them about their
aspirations. I'll get involved in Puerto Rico with the Tourism industry down there,
government. Do a little corporate tennis, play a little golf. Sounds like a lot, doesn't
it? 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT