U.S. OPEN
September 8, 1996
Gigi Fernandez
Natalia Zvereva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What was the difference between the first set and the last two? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA: To me, they just came out for some reason. They are such a fast team
to start with. 

Q. Can you use the mic?

NATASHA ZVEREVA:. They are very, very fast to begin and I think that through me off. I
mean, I was ready, but the level of tennis was so high and I was almost playing my best
too and I was, you know, getting my butt kicked, so that was just too good. I think they
played almost a perfect first set and it is very hard to keep doing that for two sets
against a good team. I was trying to tell myself to hang in there. When you are down two
breaks, you can't give the first set up. You want to, at least get a game, so, you can
serve in the second set and one set is not a match so try and stay positive and keep
playing points. 

Q. How intense is that rivalry with them compared to other top teams that you have
played? Aside from just the winning and losing on a personal level. 

NATASHA ZVEREVA: On a personal level? There is no problems as far as I know. I mean,
there is nothing negative, no negative emotion, no negative vibes. 
GIGI FERNANDEZ: That was a long time ago.
NATASHA ZVEREVA: From me or from them? 
GIGI FERNANDEZ: Everybody is friendly to each other now in the lockerrooms. We are all
talking before the matches and we are all talking about that we all want to be home today.
We all wanted to play yesterday, but everybody is nice. It is different now.
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Everybody realized that we have to work together to make the Tour
better even just personally wise.

Q. With that said, would you kind of hope that they keep playing together?

GIGI FERNANDEZ: No. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER). Yeah, I mean, it is always good for us to play
them because they bring out the best in us, it is the one team that you can really get up
for. Every other team we play, we have the pressure and we are supposed to win. Against
them, I feel it is pretty even. So, we have our best matches with them. If they split up,
whoever they go play with, they are going to be good because there are so many doubles
players that would love to play with either one of them. So.... 

Q. Is it your goal still to break Martina's record?

GIGI FERNANDEZ: There is no way. I am 32 years old. Are you kidding? No. 
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Come on. You have to play until you are 38. 
GIGI FERNANDEZ: I think it is unreachable unless we start winning 3 Grand Slams a year.
What did they win; 19 and we are 12? So, it is 7 more Grand Slams. I don't know.

Q. That is two years. 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: We are just happy to win one again because we didn't win one this year.
This is only our fifth tournament this year. We have had so many injury problems. We
measured our year in terms of the Grand Slams. It is great that we got this one, but the
other years were better, so...

Q. You say this was only your fifth tournament this year?

GIGI FERNANDEZ: Yeah, Natasha was injured after Australia. We played Australia, Japan.
She didn't play anything until the French. Then I got injured, Eastbourne and then we had,
because of the Olympics, we had different schedules in the summer.

Q. How many years have you been together?

GIGI FERNANDEZ: Four and a half.

Q. How did you get together; do you recall? 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: Long time ago.
NATASHA ZVEREVA: I think the first intention was because we both were dumped by our
previous partners (audience laughter). So, it was like there is no one out there to play
with. There was no one out there, really. Everyone had like paired up, had commitment,
so...

Q. Who was your previous partner? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA: Larisa Neiland.
GIGI FERNANDEZ: Mine was Jana. They dumped us and got together and then we got
together. 

Q. Do you think this will refresh you for next year or are you guys going to probably
do your own schedules and maybe not play as much together?

GIGI FERNANDEZ: We haven't discussed that right now. We are taking the rest of the year
off. I am playing until the championships, so...
NATASHA ZVEREVA: Yeah, thanks a lot. 
GIGI FERNANDEZ: No, I have had a long summer and long year, and I am taking two months
off then hopefully that will refresh me for next year.

Q. Does that mean you won't play Fed Cup?

GIGI FERNANDEZ: That is not up to me. I am available for Fed Cup. Hopefully, I will be
there, but it is Billie's decision, so they haven't announced the team yet. 

Q. Do you two plan to play again?

GIGI FERNANDEZ: I want to. 

Q. How about you?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: I have a decision to make, so...

Q. You haven't made up your mind yet?

NATASHA ZVEREVA: No. There is another, you know, few more months, so.....
GIGI FERNANDEZ: Figure that one out. No, it is like for us, it is all about having fun
not winning, and we have not had a lot of fun playing together this year. When we stop
having fun, we said we will stop playing together.

Q. Why is that?

GIGI FERNANDEZ: I don't know why. You can't tell yourself to have fun. Either you have
it or you don't. We have been trying to have fun, but you can't try to have fun. You
either have it or you don't. It is not happening, but winning helps, you know, maybe. Who
knows? 

Q. Did you have fun today? On a scale of 1 to 10, how much fun did you have today?

GIGI FERNANDEZ: Matchpoints was like a 10.

Q. I mean, overall. 

GIGI FERNANDEZ: You know, we are under so much pressure all the time. Every time we go
on the court, we are playing teams that, you know, have nothing to lose and come out
swinging and we are supposed to win every single time we go on the court and that wears
you. Today was fun. It is not as much fun playing Wimbledon final, because there is not
the crowd and there is not the atmosphere, but winning a Grand Slam is fun. 

Q. Natasha, Gigi has talked about retirement. What about you? Are you still going to
play? 

NATASHA ZVEREVA: No, I think I have definitely a couple of more years. I mean,
willingly, maybe I will have to force myself after that -- (kiddingly) just a couple of
more years. I am taking it by heart, purely by heart.

Q. Good luck and have fun. 
End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT