XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 30, 1996
Gigi Fernandez
Mary Joe Fernandez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You looked good out there, did you feel as good as you looked?
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  We felt good.  It could have been potentially tall.  The score could have been closer.  I think we played very solid and we didn't give them many free points and we were able to get on top in the early sets and keep going, so we're happy. 
 

Q.  What do you wager your chances are in repeating a gold?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  They're tough.  We still have a couple tough matches ahead of us.  We have to take it one at a time and in doubles anything can happen.  There's a few really good teams left. And on the day that we play we just have to play well, and hopefully we can do it again. 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  I feel good about our chances to get to the final.  I think if you get to the finals you have a shot at the gold.  Whoever we play at the finals, whether it's the Czechs or the Spaniards, it will be difficult.  First we have to get there. 
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  It's going to be tough.  If we play Schultz and Bollegraf, Schultz has a huge serve, and if she's on, it will be tough.  If we get through that, anything is possible. 
 

Q.  Gigi, a lot of the tour events you're playing both singles and doubles, in a format like this where you're just playing doubles, do you find it hard to keep an edge?
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  No, I think it's great.  When you're 32 years old, days off are great.  I think what it's done is help -- enabled me to enjoy the Olympics.  We had -- we didn't start playing until Saturday.  And the first week I was everywhere.  We have days off, so I can go -- I have tickets for athletics and table tennis, and I think you have to enjoy yourself.  If you enjoy yourself off the court, it's easier to do it on the court.  So I have no problems with that. 
 

Q.  Did you hit against the wall?
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  I hit with our hitting partner, Jay, for about 15, 20 minutes.  Tomorrow I just have a nice relaxed hit.  My days off I'm very relaxed and just hit for about an hour or whatever. But it's very stress free, because the days you're playing are very stressful.  You kind of just hang on those days. 
 

Q.  Did you expect -- if you looked at their previous scores, you would expect a little bit tougher today.  Did they seem confused at times?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  The match was a lot closer than the score.  We had a lot of really good points, we were just able to get off to a good lead right from the start.  I think that made a big difference.  We didn't give them a chance to belief that they were going to win, we stayed on top of them. 
 

Q.  You liked the quick finish today for your singles match?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Yes. 
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  We had to get Mary Joe off the court because she's got two more singles matches, so we have to save her. 
 

Q.  Would you watch the next doubles match or are you just interested in the final result?
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  I will.  The girls we played today, we had a good gameplan on them, I will try to watch all or most of that match.  
 

Q.  How did your Olympic experience in Barcelona help you this time around at this point?
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  I think it's helped me a lot.  I think coming in knowing what to expect, knowing the pressure, knowing the chaos that surrounds the Olympic games, for me knowing beforehand I was not going to stay at the village, because I tried that in Barcelona and it didn't work for me.  So I was organized in that respect before these games started.  And just being out there playing like today, quarterfinal match against Great Britain, they were probably feeling more pressure than we are, because they're trying to get in the medal contention.  But we've won a medal.  We've played a final, so we know the pressure.  We were relaxed compared to them today, so it's been great having that experience. 
 

Q.  Could you explain one more time, I think someone asked Lindsay yesterday, and I didn't understand the explanation, why the U.S. doesn't have team uniforms, not that it makes any difference.
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  N-i-k-e. 
 

Q.  I understand that explanation.
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  She can't say that. 
 

Q.  So, Gigi, you didn't like staying in the village in Barcelona, why not?
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  The problems I found in the village in Barcelona, first of all it was very hot and they were not air conditioned.  And if you opened the windows there was -- we were living right next to the highway, and there was no blinds on the windows.  So the light came in, it's dark at 10 and at 4 it's light again.  And we didn't have fans.  So I stayed for the first five days, and I was completely dehydrated.  I'd sweat through the night and finally I said, if I want to win a gold medal I have to find a hotel room.  So I did that. 
 

Q.  I don't think the Athlete's Village is like that here.
 
GIGI FERNANDEZ:  No, the Village here is much better.  The reason I decided not to stay at the village, we were told it would be 45 minutes to an hour to drive here, that's the reason, and I always want to give myself the best chance to win the gold medal, and I felt I would take energy away, that would wear me out.  All the other girls stayed there before the games started, but once they started competing they've all stayed out here. 
 

Q.  Talk about the differences in Barcelona and here.  It must be a very different crowd?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  It's really nice to have the crowd behind you.  It puts more pressure on us, because we're favorites and we don't want to disappoint anyone.  But on the other hand they're cheering for us, and we were talking about it the other day, we played France, first game we win a point the crowd went nuts.  And we went, it's just the first game.  But it helps us to pump us up and gets us out of a tight situation, and inspires us. 
 

Q.  Since you have a tournament almost every weekend outside of the Olympics, does that cheapen the experience at all?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  I think the opposite.  I think this is that much more special, that much more unique.  It's a hard feeling to describe, just being a part of the bigger picture.  We're a small part of the whole Olympic experience, and I don't think I would trade it in for any other experience. 
 

Q.  Mary Joe, just about your singles, doing anything special to focus, what are your concerns, how are you feeling in terms of the singles, are you glad to pull it out yesterday?
 
MARY JOE FERNANDEZ:  Definitely.  I was very happy to get through that match.  Just doing the same thing I do every day.  I'll go home and rest today and just try to do my best tomorrow.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT