U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S AMATEUR
September 30, 2015
Sue Cohn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I hear you had a couple about hole outs there.  Tell me about those.
SUE COHN: Yep.  Well, let's see, No. 12, which I had a nice angle in, but I didn't hit the shot a little thin.  It was in the bunker.  Just a short little bunker shot and happened to go in the hole.
Q. We'll take that.
SUE COHN: Yes, of course.  Always.
Q. Then you holed out here to close it out.
SUE COHN: On 17, but I was up a lot and I had, want to say three 3-putts, or the equivalent of three 3-putts.  One might have been just off the green on a few of the holes.
I gave myself a rougher time of it than I could have.
Q. Looked like you maybe pulled away and Brenda started chipping back away for a while.
SUE COHN: She has a great game and hits the ball a long way.  Yeah, she played great back there.  I made mistakes and I lost the hole.  She was playing steady.
Q. It would take something to be able to pull yourself up and get back into it, I would think.
SUE COHN: You know, you need it, because there are ups and downs in every round.  Each part of a round has its different vibes, for lack of a better word.
Yes, you have to do something to pull yourself out of it, like remember what you're here for.  Remember it's not just another day, you know, with your friends playing golf and you're just playing poorly for a few holes.
We joke at home, my friends and I.  We say, You have to put on your big girl pants and keep going.
Q. Uh-huh, I hear you.  You've come close to this before.
SUE COHN: Yes, yes.  First time I played it two years ago.  That was just like living in a fog all week.
Q. Are you drawing from that experience at all?
SUE COHN: Oh, most definitely.  Last year I made it to the round of 32.  It was still a nice tournament for me.
Yeah, that was something for me two years ago.  See what happens tomorrow.  Just like to continue to play well.
Q. Right.  How have you been dealing with the weather and the stops and starts and changing schedules?
SUE COHN: Well, the weather right now is about as cold as it ever gets in South Florida in the winter.  I'm just thinking to myself that maybe I 3-putted so poorly because I can't feel my hands right now.
But that's no excuse.  You know, the USGA handles all these schedule changes so fluidly.  They have made it as easy as possible.
What are you going to do?  It's raining and the course is wet and you've got 64 people to get out.  It worked out fine.  We played a lot of holes today, but I was in the bottom on the last bracket, bottom there, so we finished late every day and started late every day.
But it is what it is.  Can't control everything.
Q. As much as we want to.
SUE COHN: Yes.
Q. Two last questions for you:  What's the strength of your game and how is that helping you out here this week?
SUE COHN: I would like to say consistency, and I need to always fall back on a short game because I'm not a long hitter.
Most of these ladies hit it way by me.  You just have to play your game.
Q. I've been hearing you talk about your short game.  Almost everyone I talked to has talked about how difficult the greens are.  How have they been treating you this week?
SUE COHN: They're a little bit of a Jekyll and Hyde sort of think.  I sunk a few long putts today.  When I 3-putt from 60 feet it's not so criminal, but shouldn't be 60 feet away.  Yet I've had plenty of 3-putts I'm a lot closer to.
It's half and half.  I respect these greens tremendously.
Q. Finally, just going back to 17, about how far out were you when you holed out?
SUE COHN: I don't know.  Jeff, how far was I on 17?  How long was that on 17?
JEFF: 32 yards.
Q. From off the green or...
SUE COHN: Yeah, underneath the hole.
Q. What club did you use?  Do you remember?
SUE COHN: I opened the face of my 50.  These are tight lies.  You have to sort of be creative sometimes.
Q. Do what you got to do.  Just get it done.
SUE COHN: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT