MLB WORLD SERIES: DODGERS VS RED SOX
October 23, 2018
Eduardo Nunez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Dodgers - 4   Red Sox - 8   
 Q.  Alex was telling us that you were a little disappointed when you came in and weren't in the lineup, but he told you to be ready for pretty much that spot that you came in.  How prepared were you for that at-bat?  
EDUARDO NUÑEZ: Well, we talked early today, he explained me what's the situation.  He told me left-handed hitter going against Kershaw.  I'm going to be prepared, seventh, eighth inning late in the game.  If they bring in a lefty for Devers.  So that was the plan and we did it.   
 Q.  What were you looking for?  And could you talk about that at-bat.  
EDUARDO NUÑEZ: You know, as soon as I was in the bullpen I was seeing video and inside.  So I know he throw a lot off-speed.  Guys first and second.  I know he don't want me to beat him with fastball.  So I will see all at-bat something soft, and he do it twice.   
 Q.  How does your knee feel in the cold?  And do you look forward to going to warm Los Angeles to play?  
EDUARDO NUÑEZ: You know, my knee right now feel good.  The issue was my ankle.  I turned my ankle three times already in two weeks.  So that was the situation.  But I'm excited to play in the warm weather.   
 Q.  Does this feel like a little redemption for you given that you struggled a little bit before this?  And the way last season's postseason ended for you, to get this home run tonight to start the World Series, does it feel like redemption for you?  
EDUARDO NUÑEZ: For sure.  For sure.  I was disappointed in myself last year.  I was getting injured in the wrong time.  And so my teammates lost in the first round; was awful.  So I signed back.  I told Alex, the only reason I signed back here, because I know we have Pedroia, we have Bogey, was I want to win rings.  I never have that experience.  I never have a World Series game.  I think the best chance is this thing, how I see the team, the players.   
So I come through with a lot of injuries this year with my knee, a lot of issues.  But thank God I come through, and we're here.  I'm very excited to have the win today.   
 Q.  Could I ask you, when you saw the ball, what was going through your heart, your mind as you rounded the bases?  
EDUARDO NUÑEZ: You know, in the beginning I thought it was going to be a single, because the ball go so high and I know it wasn't a slow ball.  And when I see the ball is going, I was excited, because I didn't expect the ball going away.   
 Q.  What does it mean for you?  I know it's a team, you can't do it by yourself, but tonight you were sort of viewed as the hero, the one who put the game out of reach for them.  What does it mean to be a hero in your first World Series game?  
EDUARDO NUÑEZ: You know, that's weird because I don't care about being a hero.  As long as we have the win, that's all that matters.  We are here to win and lose together.  Who cares who's the hero that night.  As long as we have a hero, that's a good feeling because we have the win.   
 Q.  What was it like hearing that crowd noise?  Have you ever heard a crowd that loud when the ball left the park?  
EDUARDO NUÑEZ: I think that was the best feeling for a player, see all the fans.  They paid tickets to watch us to play and be crazy.  In that situation I think that's a great feeling for us.   
 Q.  You talked about the Division Series last year, in view of what happened tonight with the home run, does that at-bat, when you hurt yourself last year, seem like yesterday or a thousand years ago?  
EDUARDO NUÑEZ: I thought it was like yesterday.  It was so fast.  For me, it wasn't that easy to come through all year the injury.  But it was like yesterday, yeah.   
 Q.  You played in some pressure games in New York and Houston.  Those felt like World Series games.  Was this any different, this actually being your first World Series game?  
EDUARDO NUÑEZ: No, no.  Definitely no.  I think we have the mind, we play cards, we play around, took BP inside.  I think everybody is chillin', everybody stayed the same.  We don't no make anymore pressure for ourself.  I think it's a normal game.   
 Q.  In situations like this today and kind of this season as a whole, do you feel like with the success that he's had, that you guys just trust whatever moves Alex is making now?  
EDUARDO NUÑEZ: Yeah, I think he make great moves.  He watch a lot of video.  He very smart.  I think that he's the reason we're here.  Because every move we make, it's for a reason, and it's good reason happen every time he make a move.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT