ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2012
Michael Phelps
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Second round of the tournament, a new course, what was the experience like? 
MICHAEL PHELPS:   A lot better today than yesterday.   I had some pretty fun, cool shots, cool holes.   I hit a net hole‑in‑one on the drivable par 4, so that was kind of fun.   And then I followed up with a net eagle right afterwards, so we had some pretty cool shots, some pretty fun holes today, and I told Paul that I would contribute some shots to the net over the next couple days.
Somebody actually told us what made the cut last year so we wanted to pick it up and have a chance to play one more round together.   We were a lot more relaxed and a lot more comfortable than we were yesterday.   This course was enjoyable.   I tried not to find the rough too many times.   I tried to stay out of that section of the course, and worked out. 

Q.   Apparently putting on these greens works out with a nice putt from you?
MICHAEL PHELPS:   A 50‑yard putt, yeah, that was the longest putt I've ever hit.   It was pretty incredible, watching it die in was a pretty cool feeling, a couple holes, I guess which was the front, our back, built some excitement, got some momentum going and we just finished well.   We came in today I think at even, and even or minus one and we finished at minus nine. 
Caught some strokes up and tomorrow is a new day.

Q.   Is that going to remain your best memory here in Scotland?
MICHAEL PHELPS:   Oh, yeah, to be able to have a net hole‑in‑one was pretty special, being able to eagle that; even without that, this trip would be very special, just having the opportunity to come over here and play amongst some of these players has been absolutely incredible.

Q.   Did Paul learn from you how to get his putts into the hole?
MICHAEL PHELPS:   No, we all started picking up some momentum at the end.   I guess our whole foursome started getting a little bit more excited.   It was good.   The back nine was really, really exciting.   Took us awhile to get going.   They were all joking that I should go out and play, what is it, 13 holes or something, before I come out and play the Old Course tomorrow to really get warmed up.   Got some confidence back on the driver, too, which was good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT