CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 19, 2018
Austin Cook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Everything went in on Thursday, I thought you hit a lot of good putts that just did not quite find the cup on Friday.
AUSTIN COOK: Yeah, that was kind of the case, but I was wanting, coming into today, to go about 4-, 5-under to stay in good position.  That's the hardest of the courses that we're playing.  I got two, so not as good as I would like, but still happy.
Q. Didn't take advantage of the par-5s the way you did over at the Tournament Course.
AUSTIN COOK: Yeah, I guess 17 or 16, sorry, that was actually a good par after my pitch that I missed the location by 20 feet, but didn't put myself in good spots to be able to get birdies there.  My drives were a little off on a couple of them and just didn't do as good today.
Q. This was the one course that you actually played 18 holes of a practice round, kind of had looks at the Tournament Course and at La Quinta.  What are your thoughts going over to La Quinta that you haven't played the course completely yet?
AUSTIN COOK: Yeah, just trying to keep hitting the ball solid.  It looked like guys were going low yesterday and I hope to capitalize on that tomorrow.  I think if I can make a few putts starting out the round and then kind of get the ball rolling, it could be another great round.
Q. What did you learn about the Stadium Course that might serve you well on Sunday?
AUSTIN COOK: Just that the greens are getting really firm.  I mean I hit a lot of shots kind of right where I wanted to, maybe missed by a yard or so, and it just skips a lot further than I was expecting and had about a 20, 30-footer instead of 10, 15 feet.
Q. You follow-up yesterday's brilliant round with a 70 on the most difficult course in the rotation.  Talk about your day.
AUSTIN COOK: Overall it was a solid day, I had a few holes that I let approach shots got away from me a little bit and had difficult up-and-downs.  So I was happy to make par on most of the holes.  The one par-3 was a pretty easy chip and I just didn't hit it hard enough to get down the hill.  So overall a good day and looking forward to getting out to La Quinta tomorrow.
Q. Talk about how good these greens are.
AUSTIN COOK: I love this overseeded rye, they're just perfect.  They're great.  Couldn't expect any or want any better greens.
Q. You spoke yesterday about your win at the RSM.  Obviously this is your rookie season.  To win so early, have you had to reset your goals?
AUSTIN COOK: Yeah, a little bit.  The goal coming in was just to try to get into some of the Majors, but now once you get in -- the PGA and Masters are the only two that I'm guaranteed in, the FedExCup rank, keep that up and that will move the World Ranking up and who knows, maybe I can get into the other two.
Q. (Question about the Masters.)
AUSTIN COOK: Oh, super excited.  Now it's just trying to figure out all the things that go along with it, housing and tickets and everything, but it's going to be a great first experience and hopefully not the last.
Q. You are going to play La Quinta tomorrow which is a great course for scoring.  How much are you looking forward to that?
AUSTIN COOK: A lot.  I'm looking forward to going out tomorrow and just try to go lights outs.  Just try and give myself a lot of opportunities, hit lots of greens, try to hit it within 20 feet and then see if I can get a few to go in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT