FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 14, 2015
Austin Cook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   One week, another terrific finish.   What is it about you and this course, you know, you've got a top 15 is my goal?
AUSTIN COOK:   I guess it just looks so good to the eye.   I'm real comfortable with the conditions of this course with the zoysia fairways and bermuda greens.   I just like the shape of the holes and it fits my game well.

Q.   What did you expect you needed to put up today starting at 6-under?
AUSTIN COOK:   To win?   5-under would give me a great shot, I thought.

Q.   Which would be right on sort of Gomez being at 11.   What were the conditions like out there?
AUSTIN COOK:   It wasn't unfair or anything.   It was, you know -- the fairways were firm, the greens were firm.   You just had to kind adjust to that at the beginning of the day.   The wind picked up there a little bit, but, you know, they weren't too tough.   Just a few mistakes on my part mentally and couple bad swings and kind of changed the path of my round.

Q.   Where do you go from here?
AUSTIN COOK:   I don't know.   Hopefully I'll get some more sponsor exemptions.   If not, it's Monday qualifiers for the rest of the year.   Had a little success with my Monday qualifier so far.   Hopefully I can keep this up.

Q.   It has to be huge for your confidence.
AUSTIN COOK:   Definitely.   Coming in on a sponsor exemption, making the cut, being in the last few groups the last few rounds, of course it's nothing but a confidence booster.

Q.   We talked about the whole week, but for you, have you taken it all in, you know, as much as everybody from Jonesboro came over, your family, your brother caddying for you?
AUSTIN COOK:   Yeah.   I've had time.   I'm out there four, five hours, you know, seeing everybody.   It's really exciting to have them here, and I couldn't be happier that everybody is here to follow you.

Q.   I see your St. Jude pin.   What does it mean to raise awareness for the kids?
AUSTIN COOK:   Those kids are true heroes.   They're the ones fighting for their lives.   I was able to go visit St. Jude this week, and that hospital is so warming when you walk in.   Normally when you walk into a hospital, you're thinking gloomy, the smell of death, sorry, but just bad things.   It's so happy and such -- they have such good rates of healing and cures and, you know, it's pretty close to my heart.   We have a big St. Jude Super Bowl Party in Jonesboro that we raise a lot of money for the St. Jude.   I work that every year I can.   Means a lot that we're here to raise some awareness for those kids.

Q.   Walking up the 18th green there was a patient there pulling a pin.
AUSTIN COOK:   That's awesome.   I wish they would do that almost on every hole.   It doesn't bother me at all to have those kids out here.

Q.   Just your thoughts on the whole week.   You said you made a couple mistakes, but you avoided a few out there, too.   How pleased with just the entire process?
AUSTIN COOK:   Overall, it's a great tournament.   If you would have said coming in I would be 6-under going in the last round, I would have been ecstatic, awesome.   But looking back, you know, there's a few things I could have done differently that the tournament might have again a little different.   I didn't.   We're where we are now, I'm happy.   It's fine.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT