FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 12, 2015
Austin Cook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Austin Cook, 6-under, 64.   How did you do it, first of all?  
AUSTIN COOK:   Well, the game plan today was hitting more fairways than yesterday so we can control it into the green, and I was able to do that, and my short irons and long irons were on fire and was able to roll in some putts.  
   
 Q.   You're tied for the best round of the day.   Not bad for a sponsor's exemption.  
AUSTIN COOK:   Yeah.   I feel like I should be out here.   I'm just trying to prove that I should be.  
   
 Q.   You're from Arkansas.   Got a little local flavor, not too far away.   You have some support.  
AUSTIN COOK:   There's a lot of people here and I'm sure lot more buying tickets right now to come tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How did the course play compared to yesterday?   Little firmer, little faster?  
AUSTIN COOK:   Yeah, the fairways were a little firmer.   Few of the holes my 3-wood went a lot further than I thought it was supposed to but was able to save par when I went into the bunker on 18, and it played a little shorter just because it was a lot firmer.  
   
 Q.   Having fun?  
AUSTIN COOK:   Yeah, definitely, always fun.  
   
 Q.   Have a great weekend.  
AUSTIN COOK:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   That was a huge ovation on 9 and 18 to get you to 8-under par.   You're as close as we have to the local that's made the cut.   Just talk about sponsor's exemption, getting into the tournament and here you are a shot off the lead.  
AUSTIN COOK:   You know, it was -- I feel like it was just God working, because last week I got a call for the sponsor exemption into the Web event, which meant I wasn't going to be able to do it on Sunday.   The next day I got a call of being here.   It all worked out.   I couldn't be more happier.  
   
 Q.   When you get an opportunity, which these opportunities are rare for you, as you try to build a resume to be able to make good -- and I know it's only 36 holes, but that's all we've played so far -- to be able to make good in front some of your fans in the area, how special is it?  
AUSTIN COOK:   It's awesome.   I mean, I live in Jonesboro, an hour 20 from this part of Memphis, it's very special to have all those people over here, and I was able -- I was basically in this situation in Houston, but this one so much closer to home.   It's nice to have all the crowd here.  
   
 Q.   When you get a situation like this, how do you -- what's going to be on your mind as you put your head on that pillow tonight?  
AUSTIN COOK:   I think I'll be able to cope with it a little better than I did in Houston because I've been there and in Houston I played well after having this 36 hole -- I guess what I shot in 36 holes, and it's nice having the brother on the bag because it's just me and him out there playing.   Just try and stay focused.   One shot at a time.   That's our goal and that's our game plan, and we've been able to do that so far.  
   
 Q.   What kind of expectations did you have when you teed it up yesterday?   Was it anything like this?  
AUSTIN COOK:   Yes.   You know, you got to have that expectation or you're not ever going to play good.   If you don't think you can do it, then there's no point in you being out here.  
I played great here last year.   The course fits my eye very well.   I played a few AJGA events here and I got 2nd in them.   I like the course and the zoysia fairways and the nice bermuda greens.  
   
 Q.   I remember you being -- saying you had the confidence being in your own backyard and having so many people coming down from Jonesboro.   How important did that mean to see them out there today?   I saw them on 18.   It was like you had a flock of folks.  
AUSTIN COOK:   It means a lot to have that kind of support coming from home.   You know, it just -- it just -- it means a lot all these people love me enough to come over here.   And I'm glad to be able to play in front of the home crowd and put on a good show for them.  
   
 Q.   Sponsor's exemptions aren't supposed to do this or rarely do this.   Is this one of those things you're also carrying that, not only being at home but getting in that way?  
AUSTIN COOK:   I'm in a different situation being a non-member of the PGA, but I have my Web.com card.   I don't have a lot of starts on the Web because I played bad in Q-school.   I missed the cut last week.   Being in Houston, if I get equal to or more than the number 200th person on the FedExCup points, that automatically qualifies me for the finals on the Web.com.   I need to get probably another 50 points, and a good week here will get me that.  
   
 Q.   Since you're nearby, how well do you know this course?   Have you played this?  
AUSTIN COOK:   I never came over here just to play it.   Like I said, I had two junior tournaments here and so five rounds maybe before last year.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What allowed you to get off to such a good start today?   You finished strong yesterday.   Did that help you kind of get going this afternoon?  
AUSTIN COOK:   Yeah.   Yesterday the finish, the strong finish there playing 16, 17, 18, 2-under, that was nice, and came out this morning, hit it good on the range and good shot on No. 10 and off we went.  
   
 Q.   Another good finish on 18.   Talk about what that does for your confidence going into the weekend.  
AUSTIN COOK:   That was a big putt on 18 to keep my momentum going for this round, but a great finish there on the other 9 and just couldn't do anything more than boost my confidence.  
   
 Q.   Where did you play?  
AUSTIN COOK:   I played at the University of Arkansas.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT