VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2019
Austin Cook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your second time playing this championship, made the cut last year.  Why all the success in the first two rounds this time around?
AUSTIN COOK: We have struggled the last few weeks with ball striking and just kind of putting everything together.  The last week ball striking was a lot better, but I think in two rounds I had 65 putts, and so we put in a new putter this week in the bag and it just kind of cleared the mind on the greens and was able to really put good strokes on it now and it's something as simple as just changing a putter can make a big difference sometimes.  Just steady ball striking and then putts actually falling now.
Q. Did you find the course conditions difficult today with the changeable winds?
AUSTIN COOK: Yeah, the first nine holes we played we played in no wind, so it was fairly, I mean I guess as easy as you could get this golf course.  So it was gettable early and then the wind definitely picked up and that back side, going through the Snake Pit with all the wind, I played it well, I had three great birdie opportunities and just didn't make any of them.  But looking forward to this weekend and happy about where the game is right now.
Q. Big picture wise, 125th in FedExCup points, but a chance to really rocket up the board.
AUSTIN COOK: Yeah, you know, good play's going to come, it's just being patient, that's been the big thing the last few weeks.  Two MDF's already and I think three missed cuts here in the spring, so it's been tough, especially with last year I think I made 21 out of my 25 or 26 cuts.  So just being patient is the big thing at first right now and when we get in a groove we'll be all right.
Q. You becoming a new father beginning of this year, what impact does that have beyond the obvious of having a little one at home now that you got to balance things and golf maybe isn't No. 1 anymore.
AUSTIN COOK: Yeah, that's definitely been an, I guess, a game changer.  It's a life changing event, obviously, and we have had to adjust some things.  The last two weeks they were out with me and it's just different now being on the road.  But big picture is golf's not that important, family and life is.  I think that finally I'm starting to get used to kind of knocking off the rust from having the little girl and wanting to spend all my time with her instead of practicing, but it's, now I'm out here playing for her and my wife, so who knows.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT