NBA DRAFT
June 27, 2013
Sergey Karasev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 SERGEY KARASEV
  Cleveland, No. 19 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Sergey, if you could make a few openings remarks and we'll open it up to questions.   
SERGEY KARASEV:   Cool.   I feel very great.   It's my dream come true.   Every time I want to play in the NBA.   Now I'm part of it.   I don't feel it really now, but I think after a couple of months I'm going to feel it.   
I want to say thank you to my family, my dad, sister, girlfriend, everybody who believed in me like my club, my agents.   I thank everybody.   This is a big part of life.   
   
 Q.   Sergey, congratulations to you.   Two questions:   First question, will you be with Cleveland this upcoming season?   That's the first question.   The second question, talk about they don't really have consistent perimeter shooting.   Talk about how you can contribute in that department.   
SERGEY KARASEV:   That's all about them.   I'm ready to come next year to play in Cleveland.   If they're going to say I need them, I come straight.   I know that.   I understand they need shooters.   I try to really help them and go as hard as possible.   
   
 Q.   Sergey, first of all, congratulations.   And secondly, compared to the other NBA‑playing Russian forwards, how do you compare?   What do you bring to this game that they didn't?   
SERGEY KARASEV:   I try to bring my shot to this game.   That's what I talk already.   Cleveland need shooters, and I think I'm the guy who can shoot the ball.   If I going do the job over the year, I'm going to have a lot of minutes.   I'm just going to keep working on me, try to help them.   
   
 Q.   Sergey, last time I saw you were just off a plane, just off a plane again.   Here you're going to get on a plane tonight.   You're logging a lot of frequent flier miles.   Why was it important to come to the draft?   
SERGEY KARASEV:   This was very important.   I'm now in Green Room.   So last time I'm going to shake the hand‑‑ first and last time in my life in the draft.   I must be here.   After I must go home because we prepare the university games.   So the team already there, the university starts after one week, so I need to be at home.   
   
 Q.   Were you aware of the Cavs' interest in you?   And did you know Vitaly or Zydrunas Ilgauskas?   Were you able to talk about Cleveland?   
SERGEY KARASEV:   I think I talked about Zydrunas Ilgauskas last year.   It was something like we're going to‑‑ it wasn't something like we're going to take you or something about the draft.   Just friendly talk.   
   
 Q.   What is it going to be like adjusting to play for Mike Brown instead of your dad and for playing with Kyrie Irving?   
SERGEY KARASEV:   I think here coaches, players, highest level.   So it's my dream to play here, and every time I want to grow up.   I think Kyrie Irving helped me with this and Mike Brown, too.   So I enjoy this time.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT