SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 20, 2006
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Aaron Baddeley after a 4 under 68 in the first round of the 2006 Shell Houston Open.  Aaron, a continuation of your good play from last week.  A different course, but talk about what went well for you today.
AARON BADDELEY:  Today was good.  I was just very patient today because I got off to a slow start, a lot of pars to start off with.  But just made some putts when I needed to.  It was just a solid day overall.
TODD BUDNICK:  Is this just a continuation of last week or a little bit different out here today?
AARON BADDELEY:  I'd say I didn't really drive it as straight as I did last week, but definitely just having confidence on the greens and around the greens, just knowing I could hit the shots when I needed to, so yeah.
Q.  Can you talk about what you did since last week, time to pause and reflect on everything?
AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, basically Monday we traveled here, just relaxed from Hilton Head.  Tuesday I practiced like normal, and then yesterday I had the Pro Am.  I mean, it's been great just to    no one has come and told me I finished 2nd (laughter).  It's just been good just knowing I've won out here, and when I do play well, I can go ahead and finish and win.
Q.  I'm wondering, how much pressure did you put on yourself to win?  I mean, was that the be all, end all to win and did you feel successful not having won?
AARON BADDELEY:  I mean, it wasn't the be all, end all.  It's definitely a goal you want to set and you want to achieve it.  I felt like with my game and how hard I worked that it was going to happen; it was just a matter of when.  That was probably the perfect time, my anniversary weekend and Easter Sunday, so it was perfect.
Q.  What was your most comfortable hole out there today, and can you walk us through that?
AARON BADDELEY:  Let's see.  What were my birdie holes?  I would say my best shot today was on 16.  Pin was back left, and I hit a 6 iron just perfect to about 15 feet.  That was probably the best shot I hit all day I reckon.
Q.  You said you didn't drive it as well as you did last week.  Do you have to drive it as well on this golf course?
AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, I think you've got to drive it well because the greens are getting firm, and when you come out of the rough you can't quite control it.  A couple times today out of the rough, even with a wedge in my hand I couldn't get it close to the pin.  Coming out of the rough you can't control the trajectory and the spin, so yeah, the fairway is an advantage.
Q.  How happy are you that you followed your first win with a solid round today?  Does that make you pretty proud, pretty happy, what you did today?
AARON BADDELEY:  Definitely.  I definitely made it a point this week to not let up because in the past sometimes when I've won, the next week I haven't quite played as well, and being a little    I'd say maybe a little lazy.  So this week I wanted to keep the routine normal, so that's why I was at the course by 6:30 on Tuesday going out to practice and just do exactly what I usually do.  So I was very pleased going out there today and shooting a good number.
Q.  Over the years have you been much of a technical player?  Do you hear a lot about    do you study the video of your swing a lot?  Or are you more of a feel guy?
AARON BADDELEY:  I'd say I'm on the technical side, just my whole life growing up just with a video camera.  My first coach, Dale Lynch in Australia, we always used the camera, looked at it on camera, so I've always grown up with a video.  If anything I lean toward being more technical.  I try to go the other way and be less technical.
Q.  Is that something you've consciously tried to do the last couple years?
AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, last year I didn't look at the camera, look at it a whole lot.  This year I looked at it a bit more because I've made a few changes with a couple new coaches.
Q.  Who are the new coaches?
AARON BADDELEY:  Andy Plummer and Mike Bennett.
Q.  When did you hook up with them?
AARON BADDELEY:  November last year.
Q.  For a few years Australians really had success here in Houston and Allenby and Appleby said there are some similarities to back home in Australia.  Are there any similarities of this course to what you play in Australia?
AARON BADDELEY:  Probably not so much.  I'd say the greens are a lot smaller in Australia.  But the firmness is similar to Australia and also the wind, as well.  There's definitely some similarities in the condition of the course, but I'd say the course in general isn't quite as Aussie as other courses.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's just go through your birdies.  The one on No. 6.
AARON BADDELEY:  I hit driver, 6 iron to about 35, 40 feet.

8, hit driver, 3 wood in the bunker, then hit it to about two feet.

12, hit 3 wood, lob wedge to about seven feet.

13, driver, 4 iron, lob wedge to about six feet.
TODD BUDNICK:  Bogey on 18?
AARON BADDELEY:  Driver in the bunker, 6 iron short, chipped up, two putted.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about how difficult that hole is going to be if you're in contention this week.
AARON BADDELEY:  It's a great driving hole.  I mean, I didn't think the tee shot was overly difficult today with the right to left breeze, but in general coming down the stretch, if you're going to make par to win you're going to have to suck it up and hit a good one.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Aaron.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT