VERIZON HERITAGE
April 14, 2006
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  Welcome Aaron Baddeley, the current leader in the clubhouse at 9 under par.

Aaron, great day out there, ending with just the third eagle on No. 18, since 1983, here, that had to be kind of special for you.  Walk us through the 18th hole.
AARON BADDELEY:  18 I hit a 3 wood off the tee.  And I was trying to figure out if the wind was helping or a crosswind, 164 to the pin and ended up having a smooth 8 iron, and perfect the whole way.

I didn't realize it went in.  But that was a great way to finish.
TODD BUDNICK:  Talk a little bit about the round today.  Outside of the triple on No. 8, it could have been a really special day out there for you.
AARON BADDELEY:  I played really good.  It was only that one shot on that triple    two shots, really.  Besides that I played great.  I missed some putts, as well.  But I'm striking the ball as well.  I'm hitting it straight.  I think on a tight golf course like this it makes you focus even more, because you have to hit it in the right spot on the fairways, and even the greens, it's hard to hit away from the green and 30 feet, if you make it, you make it, two putt, it's perfect.
TODD BUDNICK:  One top 25 in seven starts this year.  You have to be a little disappointed with your game up to this point in the season.
AARON BADDELEY:  I'd say I was disappointed with the results, but I'm not disappointed with my game in the sense that I've made a lot of big improvement from November to now.  My ball striking is improving a lot.  The only thing I haven't been doing is putting that well.  If I putted like I usually do, I would have been right up there.
Q.  Tell about on 15 you wound up over there on the green, you had a ruling.  Did you request a ruling?
AARON BADDELEY:  The score board was to my backswing, so I had to get out of that.
Q.  Do you feel like if you're in that right position you can reach that this week?
AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, it was playing pretty much like the tee shot was down breeze.  I've got two drives that are within two yards of each other, and it's a 5 wood to get up over the trees.  But 240 to the front today.
Q.  A lot of guys who might have a triple bogey, would then let the rest of their game just give up on the day.  What did you do to keep yourself focused and keep on grinding?
AARON BADDELEY:  This week, both days I've been trying to just be patient.  And even though I made triple, I was still only four off the lead.  So I thought if you make a few coming in, you're going to be right there for the weekend.  That's what I did.  I made a bunch of pars after that and just got hot towards the end.  Patience is the thing.
Q.  Looking back, how important was that up and down for par at No. 9 out of the sand?  You could have kept going    I'm sorry, No. 10, when you got out of the sand and got up and down.  You could have kept going in a bad direction, and you kind of got it back on track?
AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, I actually hit    I thought I hit a good shot into the breeze and pushed it in and hit a really good bunker shot.  It was a little help because it was a little into the grain, I landed it right and hit a great shot.  I think when you're playing well, those saves are key, to just keep your momentum going forward.
Q.  The eagle on 18, you said you didn't realize it had gone in until when?
AARON BADDELEY:  Until further up.  I saw the reaction of the crowd, but I wasn't sure.  When I got up there the ball wasn't anywhere to be seen.
TODD BUDNICK:  Walk through the round, here, start with birdie on No. 2.
AARON BADDELEY:  I hit driver, I think it was a 5 iron, and chip and putted.

5, what did I do there?  I can't remember.  I hit a driver and then a 4 iron just short, chipped up, made the putt.  Next I hit it left    left rough, hit the trees, in the left rough, hit it over the trees, hit it in the bunker, hit it short, putted up and knocked it in.

14, hit an 8 iron to about ten feet.

16, I hit a 5 wood and pitching wedge to about 20 feet, 25 feet.
Q.  You were saying yesterday that you've been working hard on your game, but these two rounds this week are your lowest scores all year, were you surprised or was it a result of your working?
AARON BADDELEY:  No, I'm not surprised.  I just knew it was a matter of time before the putter started working a little bit.  And, yeah, I've just been patiently waiting for this to happen.  I'm excited.  I'm looking forward to the weekend, especially around this golf course.
Q.  Obviously a lot of people don't have eagles on 18.  It's one of the toughest holes out there.  Did it hit you the kind of impact that that shot had?
AARON BADDELEY:  No (laughter).
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Aaron.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT