VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 22, 2005
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Okay, Aaron Baddeley, started on the 10th hole, shot 32 and then came back and 33 for 65 and a nice start.  Last year you started 67 here, so a little bit better this year here.  Just a couple thoughts about how you played.
AARON BADDELEY:  I played pretty nice.  There was no bogeys, so that was good.  I didn't really even look at making bogey except one hole I had about a 25 footer to save par, but overall it was a nice day.  I played nice, and that was pretty much the worst I was going to shoot, so that was good.
Q.  What hole was that?
AARON BADDELEY:  5.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Maybe talk about your game, how it's been lately coming into this week.
AARON BADDELEY:  Last week I had an off week, which was nice.  Leading into it, this year has been a good year for me.  I've been working a lot by myself and just doing stuff by myself, so it's been very good.

Then the last two months or so have been sort of inconsistent, missed a few cuts and finished 4th, so it's been very close to getting very good, so I've just got to hang in there and keep practicing and whatnot, so it's coming.
Q.  You played pretty well in some of the early rounds last year or the year before.  Do you have any memories from that that helped you get going today?
AARON BADDELEY:  Oh, yeah, definitely.  I mean, last year I finished bad.  I honestly can't remember how I played last year.  The year before that I shot bookend 62s.
Q.  Two years ago?
AARON BADDELEY:  2003, so I remember that.  I was thinking back over that.  It always brings back memories when you come back to a course where you shot good scores.
Q.  Is there something about La Cantera that you like?
AARON BADDELEY:  I love the greens here.  They're perfect.  I feel like I can hole like every putt I look at.  Yeah, it's great.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Do you want to just run through the birdies?  You told us about the save on 5.
AARON BADDELEY:  No. 16, just hit a 3 iron off the tee and lob wedge to about ten feet and made it.

18, hit a pitching wedge in there to about 12 feet, made it.

No. 1, hit driver, 3 wood just short, pitched up to about six feet and made it.

No. 4, nice 9 iron to about four feet and made it.

7, hit 3 iron on the green and two putted.  That was it.
Q.  Mostly tap ins?
AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, that was nice.
Q.  Has your iron play been pretty steady coming in, you're able to just pretty much fire?
AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, it's definitely    my game has been improving the whole time, so it's been a game of patience really.  I feel like I've been playing pretty good, it's just a matter of staying patient and keep going in that direction.
Q.  You said you like the way the greens roll, but do you feel they're in a condition where you can just land it
AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, they're perfect.
Q.  A lot of guys come here and they're either looking to secure their card for next year, they're looking to move into the Top 60, the Top 125.  You know, there's all kinds of ulterior motives.  Did you come in here looking to do something?  Did you have a goal for this week or step to a goal or something?
AARON BADDELEY:  I'm trying to win.  I mean, my goal is to win.  This year I wanted to win an event, and I think I have three events left, including this one.  Yeah, I want to win, so I'm here to win.  I feel like I'm playing well and I'm putting well, which is good, so that will help me.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Well, thanks a lot, and continued good luck.
AARON BADDELEY:  No worries.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT