THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 10, 2005
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  4-under par 68, just a T-7 at Nissan a couple of weeks ago, a T-6 at Tucson last week, just the same continuation of good play.  Just talk about what you've been doing the last couple of weeks.

AARON BADDELEY:  Well, this year, I've been working with myself and just sort of simplifying things and just getting back to just playing golf and each week has been a really good improvement.  Start of the week, every week I've had a better finish and it's been a good progression.

JOE CHEMYCZ:  Talk about what was working for you and what was good today.

AARON BADDELEY:  Today I was very patient.  It was really windy up until the third shot into 12 and I just stopped there pretty much.  I was just very patient, just stuck in there and I hit a couple of errant shots, but just, what are you going to do, so just move on. 

Q.  You had a pretty good week last week? 

AARON BADDELEY:  No, this is my engagement ring.  Getting married in April, 36 days. 

Q.  Talk about that. 

AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, we got engaged in October, October 7, and just getting married in April and just can't wait.  I'm excited, really excited, we just want to get married already.

Q.  What's her name and where is she from? 

AARON BADDELEY:  Richelle.  Her name is Richelle Robbins.   She's from Scottsdale, strong Christian like myself.  It's just amazing.  We're that close and that connected.  For me it's such a blessing from the Lord, it just blows you away, it really does.  I didn't know you could -- I didn't know you could feel like this for someone.  I didn't know you could care for someone or love someone like I love her.

Q.  Do you think you'll be one of those guys who plays better with the stability of marriage?

AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah.  I love it when she's out here.  This week, she's not here, she's at home doing some stuff for the wedding, and I just miss having her out walking the course, just being there.  I just love it when her presence is here. 

Q.  When you have close calls like you had last year at Tucson, how long does the disappointment last before you start looking on each one of those situations as a learning experience? 

AARON BADDELEY:  Well, I mean I think you're always disappointed when you don't win.  I mean, you'd have to have no competitive drive to not be disappointed.  But it just knowing that I did my best on every shot.  It wasn't like I gave up or it wasn't like every shot I got 100% and you just move on.  Hey, I played really good, did this really well, did this really well and I need to improve this or that.  For me it didn't last that long.  I was trying to cheer other people up after the round, and I was just saying, "Hey, it's great, don't worry about it."    So that's what you've got to try and pretty much -- didn't last very long, which is good. 

Q.  How much time did you spend in Australia anymore, and when you're not there, is there one thing about Australia that you miss more than anything else? 

AARON BADDELEY:  I spend about, I'd say, six to eight weeks there per year, and I just miss my friends and family; that's the biggest thing just being with them, and my two little sisters, my parents and just my close friends.  That's what I miss about it. 

Q.  When it's blowing like this, do you feel comfortable having an arsenal of shots where you can get your way around, different kind of shots?  Do you have a lot of different kinds of shots? 

AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, I like it when it's windy because I know growing up I was in the wind.  Like in Australia, it's always windy in Australia, so it's normal for me to go out and hit it high, hit it low and just be used to playing with the wind. 

I mean I'd prefer it to be windy all week.  I've love that.  That would be great. 

Q.  Your swing, would you say it's like one of those technically-crafted swings that would fit into computer model or is it something more that you work at? 

AARON BADDELEY:  I'd say it's pretty technically quite good.  Working with Dale Lynch in Australia for about seven years and then went with Leadbetter the last couple of years, it's technically very good.  But then it's just a matter of making that flow into playing well, because you can have all of the positions good but not playing good.  That's what I've been doing this year is just getting back to playing and just reacting sort of pretty much to letting the technique, all of the good parts of the technique, just let that take over. 

Q.  Does getting married mean an end to any commercials involving the MacGregor girls? 

AARON BADDELEY:  I think so.  (Laughter.)

Q.  Do you still have fans go, "Badds?" 

AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, actually someone in Outback was going like this (indicating waving.)  (Laughter.)

Q.  You got an exemption three or four years ago? 

AARON BADDELEY:  2000 was my first exemption here.

Q.  Was that the first time you had ever played on TOUR?

AARON BADDELEY:  Yes, that was my first event.  I remember I shot a 68-69.  I can still remember the shots I hit.  I remember hitting a 3-iron to about eight feet on 8 there on the second to last day, and Duff (ph) who was one of the caddies working for TV that week was standing to the right of me and I remember holing my putt on the ninth green to shoot 69.  It's amazing what you can remember. 

I love coming back here.  These guys have been great to me.

Q.  It seem like so long ago, those five years or just where you are in life? 

AARON BADDELEY:  It does, it seems a long time ago it really does, but it's gone by so quick.

Q.  You guys actually go to Outback? 

AARON BADDELEY:  (Laughter.)  Yeah, you've got to get some kangaroo fries or whatever, because we always have them at home.  (Laughter.)

Q.  You don't think, you won too early in life, did you, with the Australian Open? 

AARON BADDELEY:  No.  Definitely not. 

Q.  That wasn't a case where you maybe won at an early age, and thought maybe it was going to be a little bit too easy? 

AARON BADDELEY:  I mean, definitely that could be a thought.  But I know that winning early was great because I got a chance to come over here and play TOUR events and play in majors at a young age, so I was able to -- I knew in 2003 when I became an official member out here I would play like 20-odd events, I knew exactly what to expect and I was ready to come out here.  It wasn't like I was coming out here not knowing anything, not knowing anyone, not knowing the golf courses.  It was like winning early was great because it prepared me for where I am right now. 

Q.  I would imagine that most people who are in the midst of wedding plans or finalizing wedding plans are not going to improve their scores over the last several weeks.  How are you doing it? 

AARON BADDELEY:  Well, I think the great thing is when you're off the golf course, you're not thinking about it.  You're trying to get wedding stuff done, I'm talking to Richelle and that's what you do.  It's been a great, I guess, diversion off golf.  When you're off the course you don't have to worry about it, going through premarital counseling and getting plans ready and stuff.  It's been easy.  It's been easy.

Q.  What's left to plan before it's all set? 

AARON BADDELEY:  I'm not sure.  Richelle has got the list.  She's ticking off the things-to-do list.  I went through the list and there was like one thing I could do. 

Q.  Show up. 

AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, show up and organize transportation.  I can do that. 

JOE CHEMYCZ:  What week is it? 

AARON BADDELEY:  Friday of Hilton Head.  So I won't be playing Hilton Head. 

JOE CHEMYCZ:  You started on 1, birdie on 1 and bogey on 2. 

AARON BADDELEY:  I hit lob-wedge from 99 yards to about five feet. 

2, I hit it right off the tee behind the tree, hit it again and then just 2-putted from about 45 feet. 

9, I hit 9-iron just short of the front edge and chipped it in.

Bogeyed 10.  Hit it on the green, spun it off and then just had a terrible lie and then just hit it on the green and 2-putted from 20 feet. 

12, I hit sand wedge to about 30 feet and holed that.

15, 7-iron to about 18 feet.

167-iron to about 15 feet.

Hit driver, 2-iron and 2-putted for birdie.  That was right on the front edge. 

Q.  95 feet they said on TV. 

AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, 37 yards. 

JOE CHEMYCZ:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT