PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2003
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about your round.

AARON BADDELEY:   I started pretty well.  I made birdie, hit it to about three feet with an 8-iron. 

I drove it pretty good, especially the front side.  I drove it well.  A little scruffy coming in, but overall, 1-under, I'm right there.  So it's a good result. 


Q.  At 18 you had to wait quite a while.  Did that throw you off a little bit?

AARON BADDELEY:   It gave me a chance to look at where I could drop it and what sort of shot I could play. 

I feel great.  Like I said, I feel like I played well today.  I didn't hit it as great as I wanted, but I feel like I'm still hitting very nicely and I'm putting well.  I can't wait for the rest of the week.


Q.  What happened at 18? 

AARON BADDELEY:   I just hit a pulled second shot.  It  was up against the fence, and I took a drop.  I got a ruling but I had to make sure.  Last thing I want is to get a penalty for the long drop or whatever. 


Q.  Did you hit driver today?

AARON BADDELEY:   I didn't pull driver out until 6, I think it was  -- actually 5.  I really didn't hit a lot of drivers.  I hit a lot of 3-woods.  But if driver is a play, I'll hit driver.  It's the same shot.  


Q.  Winning the '99 Australian Open as an amateur with some big-name players, what was that like, and what did it do for your confidence?

AARON BADDELEY:   It gave me a lot of confidence.  I learned that if I play well, I can beat the best in the world; Norman was there and Montgomerie.  That gave me a lot of confidence to know that if I beat them, I knew I could win. 


Q.  How did the course play today?

AARON BADDELEY:   The greens, it's just hard because the course doesn't let up.  You have to remain so focused the whole 18 holes, not like 16 holes.  Every hole is a possible bogey opportunity. 


Q.  You're one of the more colorful dressers out here, is that your personality?

AARON BADDELEY:   This is what I wear off the course.  I like to wear brighter clothes and louder clothes.  I have some good outfits for rest of the week.


Q.  What's your color for tomorrow?

AARON BADDELEY:   I can't tell you that. (Laughing).  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT