SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 9, 2015
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Really important week for you coming in, playing in the past champions' category.  You've got to be really proud of yourself, especially the way you finished.
AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I played really solid today.  We were just talking, I think I only missed three fairways and two greens.  Just a solid day, really.  Hit a great putt there on 17 that didn't quite go in.  But just the two shots into the par-5s, if I had capitalized on those two really good tee shots, that would have made a difference.
Q. Take us back to 14 where we almost lost a ball and the decision to go back on the other tee.
AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, Mark, my caddie, found it, and then Mark mentioned, like, are you sure we can get this thing out of here, and I was like, hmm, I don't know.  We just looked back and see the tee behind us and it was a pretty basic pitch shot, especially like into the wind a little bit.  We thought that was the best option, and it paid off making par.
Q. Realistically going back to 14, long delay, you made your par, great save, but did it take a little bit of wind out of your sails because of all the long delays that you didn't play the last few holes like you wanted to, or did you let it not bother you at all?
AARON BADDELEY: No, I mean, obviously I was getting a second opinion so it's going to take a while.  Second opinions do take a while.  But I made a good save there, made a good birdie on the next hole.  16 is a tough hole, and then 17, I mean, I couldn't hit a better putt than that to not go in.  No, I felt like I didn't lose momentum at all.  I felt like my tee shots down -- like 17 was spot on and my second shot into 18 was really good, too.  Positive week.  Very pleased to get some results because I felt like my game has been good for a while, so it's nice to get a result.
Q. Realistically did you think you needed probably birdies on 17 and 18 to maybe be in the conversation?
AARON BADDELEY: That's what I was thinking.  I was thinking I needed to birdie the last two, and like I said, I couldn't hit a better putt on 17.  I needed to hit it a little bit closer to the hole.  Then hit a good tee shot at the last but stayed out to the right just a tiny bit.  There's a big difference between being just in the rough and just in the fairway.  It's lift, clean and place, being able to clean it.
Like I said, I'm very pleased with the week but a little disappointed in not going to be right there for a playoff or a win.
Q. Aaron, it was obviously a long week, Monday finish.  Take us through obviously a little disappointing, perhaps finishing one shot short.  How did it feel to be out there on the back nine in contention?
AARON BADDELEY: It was great.  I felt pretty comfortable.  I hit a lot of really good shots.  Looking back, it was probably just two shots I would want back, the two shots into the par-5s, my two second shots.  I hit really good tee shots.  But I played really good.  I hit 11 fairways, 16 greens today, and it's funny, the only two greens I missed were those par-5s.  The game feels really good.  I'm very pleased to get a result because the game has been feeling good for a while.
Q. You mentioned the par-5s.  A unique situation perhaps on 14, took a while to get a ruling.  Can you just talk us through that situation and maybe did that get you out of a rhythm perhaps?
AARON BADDELEY: No, because the next hole I made a birdie, so I made a really nice up-and-down for birdie there.  But the ball was like in some long grass and weren't sure if it was embedded or not and ended up getting two opinions, and then we weren't sure we could get it out because it was down there good.  So then we went back to the tee behind us, and it was a pretty basic wedge shot.  So I hit a good wedge shot to six, seven feet, and I made the putt for par, which was nice.
Q. You mentioned getting a result.  How much does a week like this do for your confidence?
AARON BADDELEY: It does a lot because I played really good all week.  I don't feel like I struggled with my game one day, but every day was just solid and just was getting better.  Nothing like coming out on a Sunday after a long week, and like I said, hit 16 greens and gave myself a lot of opportunities to make birdie was very encouraging.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT