VALERO TEXAS OPEN
March 27, 2015
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good play for you, second straight day, you have to be very pleased?
AARON BADDELEY:   It was a good day today.   A little disappointed with the way I played the last three.   Overall very pleased.   Played solid.   Just looking forward to the weekend.

Q.   How different were the conditions?   You played later yesterday when the wind kind of died down late.   Was it different this morning?
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, it was cold.   It was very cold.   The wind was down which made it a lot more bearable, instead of how it felt like because of the wind.
Today was nice.   It was a beautiful day today.   It's going to be a nice weekend.

Q.   Your swing has always been very beautiful to the naked eye.   I know you're very technical.   How do you think you're swinging right now?
AARON BADDELEY:   It feels good.   I'm really working on two really important pieces with Chris and Grant on my time off.   And feeling very comfortable.

Q.   Everybody is still talking about your great play at 17 on Thursday.   You have a big smile on your face.   Tell us about that, because our listeners might have seen it and heard about it, but that was pretty spectacular?
AARON BADDELEY:   That was crazy.   I tried like a fade drive in there and hit a pulled draw in the trees.   And then I thought to myself, I just hit the wrong shot, I should have just hit it straight.   The next one I hit it straight and walking off the tee and the crowd going crazy up by the green.   I think I just made a birdie.   That was crazy.   That was an unbelievable birdie.

Q.   Have you ever done that before?
AARON BADDELEY:   No, that was by far the longest hole I've ever had.

Q.   That was the buzz around the course, everybody is still talking about it today. 
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, that was pretty cool. 

Q.   Excited about the weekend?
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, it's a good golf course.   It's one that a good score really goes a long way.   You feel like you can go there and make a bunch of pars and birdies, and you can move up. 

Q.   I didn't quite hear you, did you have a buried lie in the bunker?
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, on 7.   I think this golf course is great. 
If there's one thing that they need to improve, there's a little too much sand in the bunkers.   I'm not the only one that will get a buried lie this week.

Q.   17 you hit it to three feet.   You kind of chuckled.
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, we laughed today, because that was a little more conventional. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT