CIMB CLASSIC
October 27, 2013
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Obviously the sponsor exemption paid off and you've got to be pretty pleased with the week I would imagine?  
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, very pleased with the week.   I was very excited to get a sponsor exemption, and then to get an opportunity to come over and play for the first time.   I was excited to get over here.   The game was feeling good, so I was excited to come over for a guaranteed four rounds.   It was good, like Thursday it wasn't quite there and then played better the next day, sort of improved as the week went on.   Yeah, definitely very pleased with the week.  
   
 Q.   And then just a great way to start the season I think with some momentum now.   You've got what would probably be a top‑5 finish, but it's got to feel good knowing this is the start of the season and not just lost in a fall kind of non‑official event?  
AARON BADDELEY:   Absolutely, it definitely makes a difference being able to‑‑ you move up the FedExCup points and get off to a solid start.   It obviously just builds momentum for the year.   As we know golf is all about momentum, and if you can get just a little bit of it, who knows where it could take you for the whole year.  
   
 Q.   Any shots that stood out today?  
AARON BADDELEY:   Just played good pretty much‑‑ bogeyed the first hole but then after that just played really nice pretty much all day.   Unfortunately missed the last two fairways coming home which made it a little tough to make a birdie coming in with the couple of tight pins there.   A little disappointed not to get one more coming in because I thought 13 might have had a chance.   But overall, super pleased.   It was just a good week.   
   
 Q.   Did you think starting off the day that you'd have a chance?  
AARON BADDELEY:   Not shooting 6‑under I didn't think I had a chance.   I would have thought it would have had to be 8 to have had a real chance.   But I mean, who knows what could happen coming in.   It's a tough par‑5 to finish if you don't drive it in the fairway, so I'll be hanging around.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT