THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 31, 2012
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  AARON BADDELEY:   Hopefully we don't get too much rain tonight and we can keep it dry.  
   
 Q.   Jack always said he wanted guys to think their way around this golf course.   Is that what's happening now?  
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, absolutely, because the ball is rolling on the fairway, as well, so you've got to think how far the ball is going to hit when it hits the fairway, like on 5 there, you've got to make sure it doesn't run through the fairway there.   So just little things like that, which is great.   
   
 Q.   Was it easier earlier?   Do you think it's going to get tougher as the day wears on?  
AARON BADDELEY:   Well, if the breeze picks up a little bit, it'll be a little bit tougher just because it'll keep drying out.   But there's some good pin placements for Thursday.   Amazing that 3‑under is leading the golf tournament.   It's not real easy out there, but if you play well, you can shoot a score.  
   
 Q.   Do you think anybody will go low this afternoon?  
AARON BADDELEY:   There's, what, 120 guys here, and they're all pretty good.   Usually one guy gets pretty warm.  
   
 Q.   Is the course receptive to a low score?  
AARON BADDELEY:   You could, for sure.   But you've got to hit good shots.   There's some tough pins there, but if you can hit some good shots, you can shoot a score.  
   
 Q.   You had a bad break there on 14, but to bounce back from a double there is something you've got to be really proud of.   
AARON BADDELEY:   It was good.   I couldn't believe that thing was out of bounds.   From where the ball landed to where it finished was like 20 yards' difference.   Yeah, I couldn't believe that.   But you know, I made a nice birdie on 16 and sort of made me feel a little better.  
   
 Q.   I feel like there's a few times you had some iffy luck, if you will, and whether in the hole or in the next hole, you were able to bounce back?  
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, I mean, just got to be patient.   You've got to keep persevering.   You always get your good breaks and bad breaks unfortunately in this game, so hopefully for the rest of the week you get a few more good ones.  
   
 Q.   There always seems to be a lot of Australian guys at the top of the leaderboard here, and some guys say it has a similar feel to Royal Melbourne.   Is that a stretch, or what is it that makes you guys seem to play so well here?  
AARON BADDELEY:   We don't have the rough here that‑‑ the rough is not like this at Royal Melbourne at all, but the greens are somewhat similar because they have some slope on them and they have some speed to them.   In that sense, it's similar, and it's a little generous off the tee here, a bit like Royal Melbourne, as well, very much a traditional golf course.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT