MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Great fight back.   You must be really pleased with the way you were able to do that. 
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, absolutely.   I messed up 5, so thrilled to be under par for the day.   The lead looks like it's going to be around 6.   It ended up being 5, but I thought if I got something under par I'd be thereabouts.

Q.   How do you pull yourself mentally together after a hole like that? 
AARON BADDELEY:   It's just your focus.   You've got to change your focus to think, man, I shouldn't have done this, I shouldn't have done that, but you need to get yourself under par for the day.   That was my purpose. 

Q.   Your shot into the 18th was a little bit similar to the one you had yesterday, maybe a little bit further out. 
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, it was a little easier, that one.   I could have hit it straight, but it was just at that pin it was easy to make sure I hit a little fade.

Q.   What did you hit?
AARON BADDELEY:   A little 6‑iron, 157 yards, just tried to just hit a little fade working to that pin.

Q.   And once again you're able to have an uphill putt which makes such a difference?
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, you can be aggressive, you're not really trying to just beat it in there.   You can go ahead and hit a good putt.

Q.   I couldn't recall whether you've been as close as this in a Masters after two rounds.   A couple of years ago you were top 20. 
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, this is the best I've been after two days, so I'm excited to be in good order, and it should be a good weekend. 

Q.   When you look at that leaderboard, it's pretty‑‑ a great snapshot of world golf when you see some great names from the past but the best of the current with Rory and Westwood.   It's a great cluster to be involved in. 
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, absolutely.   It's a packed leaderboard.   It's really‑‑ I mean, anyone can win, really.   There's so many guys at 4 and 3 and 2.   I mean, 1‑over could still win the golf tournament.

Q.   Is it something that as a golfer you want to be in that top cluster of players in big tournaments, to see the Baddeley name up there?
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, absolutely, that's a goal.   In a big event, or any event really for that matter, the goal is to have it as high up that leaderboard as you can get.   That's why you work hard.   That's why you work to be as good as you can, so you have a chance come every week. 

Q.   Do you think you've got a low one in there?
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, I think I've putted well so far.   I made a couple nice putts today, which was good.   You just a couple of good shots and hit a couple of good putts and you get it rolling, and I'm hitting it long enough, as well, so it's good.

Q.   What happened on 13? 
AARON BADDELEY:   I hit the tee shot a little bit right on 13.   I had to lay up and hit a good wedge in there to like 11 feet or something like that.   It just kicked to the right a little bit and missed.   Then 15, laid it up a little bit, hit it a little bit too far left behind the pines and hit a good wedge to about eight, ten feet and hit a good putt and just didn't break, just over‑read it.

Q.   Just lipped out?
AARON BADDELEY:   Just over the edge, yeah.   I read it just outside right, and it would have been a right‑edge putt. 

Q.   How much does sort of momentum from what happened here move into the next day?   Everyone else is bogeying and double bogeying 18 today and you come in with a great birdie. 
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, it's definitely nice to make a birdie at the last.   It gives you that little bit of a kick for tomorrow.   But tomorrow is a new day.   You've got to wipe the slate clean and start again.   Yeah, so tomorrow is going to be a fun day.

Q.   Has that been your approach, to take it a bit easier, and you feel like tomorrow you'll be able to do the same thing?
AARON BADDELEY:   Well, tomorrow, you've just got to treat it like another day.   You've just got to go out there and be patient, especially if it's going to be breezy again.   When it's breezy around here it's not always easy. 
12 was crazy.   The wind was hard down off the left, and off the tee it started blowing into us, and then the two flags were doing different stuff.   It all just depends on the breeze and stuff.   Like I said, you have to take what the course gives you. 

Q.   How long was the putt you made?
AARON BADDELEY:   30 feet, 35 feet.   I made a pretty good putt. 

Q.   What did you hit off the tee there?
AARON BADDELEY:   Wedge.

Q.   Any three‑putts this week? 
AARON BADDELEY:   No, no.   Putting has been good.   My speed is nice, which is good.   I made a couple long ones today, and the speed was nice.   Just pretty much helping me just tap it in.

Q.   Last year we had the two Aussies, three Aussies juggling.   Did you watch much footage?
AARON BADDELEY:   No, I didn't watch anything.   I played in Hawai'i and we went to the airport, so I didn't really get to watch any of it to be honest.   I didn't even see the finish.   I was in the air. 

Q.   You're leading our charge at the moment.   Is there any pride in knowing that? 
AARON BADDELEY:   We don't really talk about it.   Every Aussie wants to be the first guy to do it, you know.   It's just a matter of just playing good golf.   There's nothing you can do really.   You can go out there and play the best golf of your life and one guy has one shot better and you don't get the green jacket.   That's all you can do is play as good as you can and as hard as you can and hopefully it's good enough at the end of the week.

Q.   At the Presidents Cup you see Fred Couples selecting teams and joking around and not playing golf, now you see him atop the leaderboard at the Masters, it's a pretty phenomenal guy to do that?
AARON BADDELEY:   It doesn't surprise me to be honest.   I played with Freddie in LA, down the stretch in LA together.   I remember a couple years ago we played at Houston the week before, and he was playing awesome, and I told him when he finished the round, I said, you're playing good enough to win next week, and he finished like fourth that week. 
I think he still hits it far, which is great.   No, but he's a good player.   I mean, it doesn't surprise me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT