MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  AARON BADDELEY:   You never like to finish with a bogey, you know, but I had a good tee shot at the right side and (inaudible) I got myself in a bit of an awkward spot.   But a good day.   
   
 Q.   Not many under pars at the moment.   It seems like the pins are in tough places.   Do you feel comfortable with how you started?   
AARON BADDELEY:   They put some tough pins out there today.   That front side there really wasn't many birdie opportunities at all, until you got to 2 and 8 and 9.   There wasn't really many birdie opportunities.   I was pleased today with a 71, 1‑under.   
   
 Q.   Certainly a good base for you to work from on the first day?  
AARON BADDELEY:   You want to shoot as slow as you can, but 71 is a good start.   I felt like I played well, I felt like I played better and better as the day went on, which I was pleased about.   
I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in.   Over the next few days, you keep hitting good putts hopefully you'll make (inaudible).   
   
 Q.   We talked about your record in majors and you really focused on it.   You made a really good start (inaudible).   Coming into tomorrow with a same mindset?  
AARON BADDELEY:   You really got to take what the golf course gives you, you know, if they set the golf course like they did today, you really got to play, play patient.   
If they set the course a little bit easier then you can attack it, you know.   It's really how they set the golf course up to what you can do.  
   
 Q.   A nice club to hit on 13 there (inaudible)?  
AARON BADDELEY:   I was pleased.   (Inaudible) I knew it was going to carry anyway, so it was a good shot.  
   
 Q.   The chip that you had to hit at the last, does that seem like a typical Augusta shot?   
AARON BADDELEY:   I hit a good chip, it just didn't come out the way I wanted it.   I want it to come out with a little more spin on it.   Instead it came out with not a whole lot of spin.  
   
 Q.   Can you run me through 17?   I didn't see that at all.   
AARON BADDELEY:   3‑wood, middle of the fairway, and then hit wedge to about three feet.  
   
 Q.   Again, what was different about your first round here than it has been in the past.   You had been working on it, you wanted to be better here.   Can you give us any specifics here as to how you are different?   Is it just experience?   
AARON BADDELEY:   Definitely a little bit of experience.   I don't know, a little less pressure on yourself.   Going out and playing, just playing golf, you know.   
   
 Q.   I feel like that's what you were talking about here.   You wanted to relax more.   You wanted to get into these tournaments.   I'm glad you've done it.   You feel like you have made that happen?   
AARON BADDELEY:   It was a good start, keep it going tomorrow and through the weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT