NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 18, 2012
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Do you want to just talk about your round today?
AARON BADDELEY:   It was a good day today.   I played really nicely, made a couple good saves there at 13 and 14.   But besides that, everything else was pretty solid, and looking forward to tomorrow.

Q.   Obviously it's one of those days where you definitely put yourself somewhat back into this.   That must be pretty pleasing. 
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, I mean, starting today I had to have a good day.   I had to shoot 4‑, 5‑, 6‑under today to give myself a realistic chance.   So it was pleasing, pleasing just the way I played really nicely all day.   Especially finishing off like I did was good.

Q.   You made some long putts for birdies and some long ones to save par. 
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, 14 was good.   I made a nice putt on the 1st that sort of got the ball rolling, just making about a 15‑footer there I guess it was.   I'm trying to think of my other birdies.   But it was good.   The putter felt good.   The whole game felt nice. 

Q.   Were you a little disappointed coming into the weekend that you didn't have a better first two days? 
AARON BADDELEY:   I got off to that poor start on Thursday, 3‑over after 3, and sort of battled well and shot 1‑under from there coming in.   I played well yesterday.   I felt like I played better than 2‑under.   So it was a little disappointing but my game felt good, so I was keen to get out there early, get the best of the greens and post a score, which I did.

Q.   I guess the greens this year seem to be a little more bumpy than they have been and a lot more impressions in them.   It makes a difference to go out early today to get at least nine holes of good greens?
AARON BADDELEY:   It definitely helps.   They're not quite as smooth as they were last year, so you sort of have to be aggressive and try and take the bumps out.   But no, definitely that front nine was good with really having perfect greens the whole way around. 

Q.   You finished with three birdies in a row.   That's obviously great momentum going forward, as well. 
AARON BADDELEY:   Yeah, absolutely.   It's always a great way to finish.   I hit a great putt on 16, then hit great shots all coming home there.   I'll take that tomorrow and try and get another one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT