ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 9, 2019
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Real nice rally on the back nine.  You shot 32, you get it to 7-under, heading to tomorrow.  Certainly a great chance to win this golf tournament.  Your analysis on how you played today?  
AARON BADDELEY: Wasn't too bad, I scrambled well.  Definitely due for a good ball hitting day.  Making a couple of bunker shots today was definitely great, especially the one on 14 there or 13 -- yeah, 14.  It was nice to make that one.  Good day, it's a golf course where par's a good score and if you pick off a few birdies you can move up the board pretty quick.   
 Q.  You're 14 of 15 of sand saves this week.  That's kind of a wild number, isn't it?  
AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I'm feeling pretty comfortable out of the bunkers this week.  So the sand's nice and hitting good bunker shots.   
 Q.  What is it about this golf course, because guys can go on runs, make four or five birdies in a road and then all of a sudden it's like you're fight to go save yourself out there.  How difficult is this?  
AARON BADDELEY: It's just that sort of golf course.  If you hit good shots you get rewarded and if you don't you can sort of get penalized.  And some of the pin locations are hard to get to so.  Like 17 you got to lay up short of the green and bounce it on the green and you only got 10 yards to land it in, it's all these narrow areas.  So things like that make it difficult to keep like making a ton of birdies.   
 Q.  All you can give yourself is a chance, you've done that, good luck tomorrow.  
AARON BADDELEY: Thanks so much.   
 Q.  You look pretty happy out of the sand this afternoon.  Can you talk about how you just kept extricating yourself from there?  
AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I brought a big shovel today, no, a big bucket, yeah.  But, no, I'm feeling comfortable around the greens here.  Definitely there's some holes where the grain is into you, like on 16 the grain was into me, so it made that bunker shot a lot easier than what it sort of looked on TV.  But, no, feeling just relaxed this week, to be honest.   
 Q.  You've been rolling since Puerto Rico, obviously.  Pretty comfortable how you've been playing?  
AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, for sure.  In fact, I'm close to hitting the ball really well, like I think I'm -- I feel like I'm due for a good ball hitting day.  I'll do a little more practice today and just, like I say, I'm feeling relaxed, just go out there and be patient.  Even when I hit one on the water on 8 I was just like, all right, let's just get it up-and-down.  And then the next hole I hit it into the lip and I was like, let's just make bogey and move on.  You know, it's the sort of golf course where you don't really need to force the issue, if you make a bogey or two it's not the end of the world because you can make a couple of birdies and move back up there.   
 Q.  Your experience as a pro, winning so many times it allows you to play so well out of categories like past champion and not full status and whatnot.  
AARON BADDELEY: I don't know, I'm just super comfortable with where I'm at.  I know I'm going to get some starts and I'm not stressed, to be honest.  You see guys who have been out here for lots of years, haven't played well for awhile, they still get starts.  So I'm comfortable with where my game's at, I'm working on the right things, my game's obviously in a good spot and I mean I'm just trusting in the Lord's plan and I can rest on that.   
 Q.  How much of an extra incentive is a spot in the Open Championship up tomorrow for grabs -- or three spots.  
AARON BADDELEY: I forgot about that.  I remember hearing that at the start of the week.  That would be a bonus for sure.  I remember doing that a couple years ago at the Australian Open, to be able to plan ahead and know you can schedule that into the schedule and prepare properly for it would be ideal.   
 Q.  Were you going to try to qualify for that anyways or were you just going to --  
AARON BADDELEY: I think I was just going to just try just the tournaments that can get you in.   
 Q.  Were there any that were kind of on your radar?  
AARON BADDELEY: I don't even know, I didn't even know this one was one until I got here this week and I was like, oh, bonus.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT