TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 25, 2011
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You had a putt to get into a playoff that's about to begin right now for $11.4 million. Was the money or anything other than winning this golf tournament -- what was in your mind on the 18th green?   
 AARON BADDELEY: I was just trying to win, just to win. I felt like I played good enough to win. I mean, I hit it pretty good all day, a couple of loose tee shots, but overall I hit it close, I just hit it on the wrong side of the holes, wasn't able to -- I had a lot of putts where I had to feed it into the hole. I wasn't able to have a go at it.   
 Two short misses on the back nine cost me. That was the golf tournament. Make those two short ones, I win.  
  
  Q. Can you take any solace from the fact that you showed Greg you're in good form?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, it's frustrating not to win because you're right there and you feel like you're playing well enough, but at the same time I definitely showed Greg that I did what I needed to do to come here and play well, and hopefully I'll get a positive phone call from Greg.  
  
  Q. You did show some guts to get that birdie on 17 to get back in it because it looked like you might have been well out of it at that point.   
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I mean -- yeah. I missed that short putt on 16, just hit it a little firm through the break. And then hit a great shot on 17 and hit a good shot on the last and then had a perfect read on the putt and it just didn't go a little right up the hill. Oh, well.   
  
  Q. What can you take -- obviously you're disappointed now, but this has been a good year for you. You had a win, you started at 200 something in the world, you're back in that top 50s. You've got three majors lined up for next year. Are you back on track?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I'm pleased with where my game is at, and the positive thing is I feel like it's only going to get better. Like today, bar like maybe three tee shots, four tee shots, overall I felt like I drove it really nice, hit a lot of really good tee shots. It's close. It's just a pity I didn't have -- I had a lot of difficult putts today. I didn't have easier putts where I could have a go at it. That's what made it difficult to make putts today.  
  
  Q. The tee shots that you say were a bit loose, was that nerves, do you think?  
 AARON BADDELEY: No, no. I mean, I think maybe just trying to -- it's pretty narrow here, and maybe it's steering just a little bit, and then after, as I said, just hit it. As soon as I started letting it go, that's when I started just striping it. Maybe it was just a little steery at the beginning.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT