TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 24, 2011
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 6-under 64, tremendous round. Let's get your comments.   
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I was excited to get out here today starting the day. When I was back at the hotel, I was just excited to come out and play. I felt like my game was in good order, so I was excited to get out here and shoot a good score. Overall I think it was a very good day. It was nice to hole some putts.   
 In recent months I haven't holed that many putts, so it was nice to be able to make some putts. I did a lot of work this week on my putting, so I feel like it's definitely paying dividends right now. The putter feels really good.   
 I'm excited for tomorrow, excited for the challenge. It's a tough golf course, but a good golf course. If you play well, you can shoot a good score, so it'll be good.  
  
  Q. For the guys who have a shot at it, can they help but think of the $10 million tomorrow, or do you put it aside?  
 AARON BADDELEY: I mean, obviously it's there. I mean, I feel like for me to win the $10 million, a lot of things have to go the right way, so for me it's trying to think about the Presidents Cup, so it's a similar sort of idea. But in the same sense, when you get down the stretch of a golf tournament, you're pretty focused on the golf tournament because that's all that's there right now. I don't know, that's what I think.   
  
  Q. How focused were you on putting on a good show for Greg this week?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, that's a huge goal of mine, to make that team and play down in Melbourne. That was a massive goal. It was definitely on the forefront of my mind to be able to knuckle down, play well this week and show Greg that I've got some form.  
  
  Q. Have you heard anything from him?  
 AARON BADDELEY: I spoke to him on Monday. That was all. He just said that he'll be watching this week.  
  
  Q. If you look at your drives on 13, 14, 15, 16, you would have never thought you would have come away with four birdies.   
 AARON BADDELEY: 16 was a good one.  
  
  Q. That's right, you had one in the fairway. Is that just a testament to your putting that you came away with --  
 AARON BADDELEY: I hit a really good bunker shot on 13 to four or five feet there.   
 On 15 -- 14, hit a really good one.  
 15, hit it just where I wanted to for my second shot, and I had a very straight putt, about 20 feet. And then I felt 15 was a bonus, the par-5, so that was good.  
  
  Q. Are these Playoffs sort of a testament to the way this season has gone with so much parity on the TOUR?   
 AARON BADDELEY: I don't know what "parity" means?   
  
  Q. Evenness, equality.   
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, absolutely. Definitely there's a lot -- there's so many guys that can win each week, and it's definitely a testament to how strong the game of golf is right now.  
  
  Q. You're 27th, and a lot of things have to happen, but most of them are happening, so you've got a shot. Have you thought about that at all coming in?  
 AARON BADDELEY: No. Like I said, my main focus is playing good so I can impress Greg and try to win a golf tournament. They're my two main focuses right now because like you said, so much has got to go my way to win the FedExCup. That's my focus right now is I want to be on that team at Royal Melbourne.  
  
  Q. You were almost told that this is the week -- you've got one more week, you're under the gun a bit. How pleasing is it that you've done everything you could do so far?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, definitely pleasing to get the job done last Sunday to be able to get here and then to be able to turn up this week and play as well as I am right now is definitely very pleasing. Hopefully that shows Greg that I'm in good form and that I can play well when I need to, so just excited for tomorrow's challenge.  
  
  Q. What did you have on 13?  
 AARON BADDELEY: 176, I think, 7-iron.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT