BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2018
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice playing today.  Just a couple off the lead.  Talk about your round a little bit today if you would.  
AARON BADDELEY: Good day.  Got off to a good start.  Birdied the first couple, which is always nice.  Overall played really nice.  Made a couple of good saves on the backside there.  But a good day overall.   
 Q.  A little disappointing to maybe make par on the last hole?  
AARON BADDELEY: Disappointing for sure.  Had, like, a 5-iron in.  Yeah, it was disappointing the way I finished, but you've got to look overall that's a good day.   
 Q.  Speaking of the overall, FedExCup, you're 135th right now.  It's probably on your mind.  How does that have an effect on the way you play this week?  
AARON BADDELEY: It doesn't really.  I'm not stressed to be honest.  Whether you go to Web finals or whether you finish in the 126 to 150 category, you're going to get starts and my game's in a good spot.  I'm not stressed.  I'm at ease with whatever happens.  Just gotta go out and play and try and win a golf tournament.   
 Q.  How much do you enjoy the format this week?  Do you feel you can be a bit more aggressive because the big numbers don't hurt you as they would in regular stroke play event?  
AARON BADDELEY: For sure, I think definitely there's times where you might go for a shot that you might not or you might go for a couple of extra pins.  But it's still golf.  You still gotta make birdies.  Got to try to make as many birdies as you can.  It's the way the format is.  And the more birdies the better.   
 Q.  I gotta ask, what's your relationship like with Jarrod?  And what's your thoughts on everything that's gone on the last couple of weeks?  
AARON BADDELEY: It's, like, brutal.  I'm friends with Jarrod.  I wouldn't say we're close.  But, yeah, that's as rough as it gets.  I feel terrible for him and his family.  And our prayers are with him.   
 Q.  Did it give you an added incentive knowing that one of your fellow countrymen is struggling to perform well and hopefully let him see that?  
AARON BADDELEY: When we talked about it this week, like, because, I mean not sure how long he's got.  We can show him out here that the Tour is thinking of him and is with him.  Yeah, that's what it's all about.  Golf seems very small right now in comparison.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT