NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 19, 2011
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAURA HILL: Aaron, thanks for joining us, nice 67 out there in the cold and the wet, putting yourself in position for your first win in a couple years. Just tell us how things were going out there and your expectations for tomorrow.   
 AARON BADDELEY: Today was a good day. Besides two tee shots, I felt like I played really well. I was very solid tee to green, really didn't put myself in any bother except for, like I said, two tee shots. So I'm looking forward to it. It's been a little bit of time since I've been in this position, so I'm excited for the challenge. I'm excited to test out the new action, and I feel good. I feel like it's going to be fun tomorrow.   
  
  Q. You're working with your original instructor these days, and if so, how is that working out, and does it feel like old times?   
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, it's been great. It's funny because I feel like I've been actually making a lot of progress, but it was never really showing on the scoreboard. So these last few weeks have really been nice to start to put some scores on the board. This week has been really nice. I feel like I've played really well pretty much all week. It was difficult yesterday in the rain. It was good just to be able to hang in there, make a bunch of pars.   
 But it's been great being back with Dale. I've really enjoyed it. I feel freer in my game, which is nice.   
  
  Q. Even though it's been a couple years since you've won, how much will you call upon that experience of '07 going through it and winning and using that tomorrow as you head into the day?   
 AARON BADDELEY: You definitely draw on it knowing that you've been in this position before and you've carried it through and won. I think tomorrow is going to be a good day just because I'm excited about it. You know, I'm excited to be back in this position. I feel very comfortable in this position. This definitely is what I play and practice for is to be in the lead and have a chance to win the golf tournament.   
 Yes, I'll draw on the last time I've won and previous times knowing that I have won before being in this position.   
  
  Q. What did you feel like coming out this morning and having those four holes to finish, get any sort of momentum going forward because you had that last birdie on 18?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Birdieing the last was really nice. 18 is a difficult hole, and to make a birdie there was a nice bonus. But it was nice. This morning I played four or three and a half really solid holes, so it just gave me good confidence going into today knowing that the game is right there still.  
  
  Q. And the three birdies in a row, 8, 9 and 10, that must have been where you really felt like you were in a zone? I think the little rainstorm came and you had that errant tee shot on 11?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I played right through that. 8 was a really difficult pin on that front. I was really concerned about the ball spinning off the front, so I was really pleased to hit a nice shot in there.  
 9, I made a nice putt.  
 10 was solid, just drove it front edge of the green and two-putt.   
 No, just poor concentration on 11. I was listening to these guys whisper and I should have backed off, but that was more the reason for the bad shot.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the varying weather conditions that you had today and how maybe they affected the golf course and how you kind of approached things?   
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, it's been crazy. Like Thursday was just perfect, and then yesterday was brutal, and then today we had a bit of everything. Once the rain came through today, the greens sort of slowed up a little bit and it was sort of a little bit more difficult to get the ball to the hole.   
 But the course is soft unfortunately because the course was so nice earlier in the week. But it's still in great condition, and you've just got to watch the spin on the greens. I find I'm spinning the ball a fair bit on the greens. Hitting a lot of three-quarter shots to try and take some spin off.  
  
  Q. You had been a pretty prominent spokesman for a certain way of swinging the club the last couple years before you went back with Dale. What did you have to unlearn, and is that just kind of a process of golf where you try things and they work for a while and then you don't and you have to go to something else? Is that just a natural thing do you think?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I felt like I definitely had some great success with Andy and Mike, and they taught me a lot. But I felt like towards the end I was sort of struggling with the same things in my swing, and I felt like it was a lot of hard work, and also I felt like I was thinking too much.   
 I remember as a kid growing up I was very much -- if I wanted to fade it, I'd fade it; if I wanted to draw it, I'd draw it. I wanted to hit all sorts of shots without thinking too much, and that's the sort of golf I wanted to get back to playing. That's why I made the switch back to Dale. I really feel now I'm starting to do that; I'm starting to move it both ways how I want, and the game is getting fun again because I'm not just stuck in a one-shot mode. I'm hitting all nine.   
 LAURA HILL: Best of luck tomorrow. Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT