THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 30, 2010
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Aaron Baddeley with us here in the interview room at the Greenbrier Classic after a 5-under par 65. Aaron, no bogeys on the card; five birdies. 
 Nice playing. 
 AARON BADDELEY: Thanks.
 JOHN BUSH: Just get some comments on your round.
 AARON BADDELEY: It was a solid day pretty much. Made two nice saves on 3 and 4. Besides that, it was really just a nice stretch really. Hit lots of fairways, lots of greens, and it was pretty comfortable. It was a comfortable day really.
 JOHN BUSH: Take us through the five birdies, starting on No. 10.
 AARON BADDELEY: No. 10 in the fog, hit 3-wood and then hit a pitching wedge to about two, three inches for birdie there.
 17, hit it in the left bunker for two, and then hit it out of there to about ten feet and made that.
 JOHN BUSH: No. 6.
 AARON BADDELEY: 6, hit driver, 8-iron to about 15 feet just pin high left of the pin, and then made that.
 Then hit driver and then a lob wedge to about ten feet on the next hole and made that.
 Hit a 5-iron on No. 8 to about five feet.
 JOHN BUSH: Before we open up to questions, talk about your season up to this point and your goals the rest of the way.
 AARON BADDELEY: I feel like the season's been -- I mean, it's been close. Like I've been close, but not quite, and just not putting a score on the board. Been working back with my old coach, Dale Lynch, who was my first teacher growing up. 
 Been really pleased with the progress I've been making. Just haven't put the scores on the board. I guess sort of starting to see a little bit of the fruit of the labor.
 JOHN BUSH: All right. Questions. 

 Q. I was wondering if you could talk about how your faith plays into your game. 
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, yeah. Very much so. I mean, I'm one to quote scripture a lot, especially when I'm out there. One of my favorites is 2 Timothy 1:8. It says, "For God did not give us a spirit of fear but of power and of love and a sound mind." Whenever I get a little bit nervous I always quote that just because I know that that -- I mean, as the scripture said, it said God didn't give us a spirit of fear. 
 So, yeah, I always quote that. It helps calm me down just knowing I'm out there and the Lord's with me. Always have my quiet time in the mornings.
 Yeah, it's a huge part of my golf and life in general. 

 Q. How close do you feel like you are to having your game where you want it, back where you want it? 
 AARON BADDELEY: I feel like it's pretty close, to be honest. I felt like the last few months it's just been like if I hit -- if it was like one better tee shot in the fairway, one up-and-down and one putt a day, you know, it's just that small -- and I feel like my game has been that close.
 I guess I felt like it's been more of a battle of just trusting my new swing, or, you old swing, you know, just going back to what I used to do. Just a matter of just letting it go. 
 That's sort of what I've been thinking about this week. Just been very much be courageous enough to trust it and let it go.

 Q. You mentioned your faith. Can you give us a little bit of background, what's your religion and where your faith came from. 
 AARON BADDELEY: I'm a Christian, born-again Christian. Grew up in a Christian home. Gave my heart to the time Lord when I was 12. 
 At about age of 19 was when I really started growing in my relationship with Christ, that I understood it was a relationship and not a religion. It's a relationship of being close to Him and growing in the knowledge of the Bible and sort of a changing of the person.
 Thinking more about others and not so much yourself. Just trying to live a life that's pleasing to Him. I love it. He's my passion, you know. So live a life that's pleasing to Him. That's my goal.

 Q. I know your dad worked for Mario Andretti. How did you get out of racing cars and pick up golf?
 AARON BADDELEY: Um, my dad, he actually -- I was born over here when he was over here with Indy. I was born in Lebanon, New Hampshire and then we moved to Australia when I was about two and a half. So I was never really around the Indy cars growing up much. 
 But I've seen Mario a few times. I saw him back in back in 2007. I mean, he was amazing. I mean, like he was at a tire store doing like an outing, and I went down there and saw him. I was like, Hey, Mario. It's Aaron Baddeley. 
 He's like, Aaron! I follow you all the time. It was just like totally like -- he was just such an amazing guy. Dad spoke so highly of Mario, like the ultimate professional. He was so excited to see me and just knew everything that I had done that year. It was amazing. So, yeah, he's great. 
 I never really get into the motor racing. Dad never really pushed it on me or anything like that. Yeah, I was more into my cricket growing up than motorsports.

 Q. How did you get into golf?
 AARON BADDELEY: My two grandmothers played. Dad didn't take it up until probably, I don't know, maybe six years ago. Yeah. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 AARON BADDELEY: Um, he thinks too much. He's very analytical. He's always telling me what's wrong with his swing and stuff. I think he shoots between and for nine holes.

 Q. What was your goal coming into the week? Top 10? Top 5? What would winning mean to you?
 AARON BADDELEY: On Monday I went down and worked with my coach, Dale, and we found what we thought was like a big piece that was sort of missing. I mean, a small piece, but in the scheme of things it was pretty big.
 I thought if I could play well, I definitely had a chance to win, because I thought my putting and short game was coming around. I hit a lot of good shots last week but just wasn't quite there. 
 My goal was to win. My goal every time I tee it up is to win and play well. To play good, and if I have a chance to win, that's my goal.

 Q. Is it particular hitch in your swing?
 AARON BADDELEY: Actually a little bit in the grip and how I was setting up. The setup never seemed to look right. A little off balance. Just a little bit in my routine and how I gripped the club. 
 Always play my best when the club face is a little bit closed, and I was getting a little bit too open. So sort of hard to describe. Just sort of gripping it not quite right. 

 Q. I happen to be a Conway Farms way back when with the junior and your family. Just looking back all those years, your thoughts on your career, and then looking ahead to the PGA at Whistling Straits, your thoughts about that competition. 
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I mean, yeah, that week in Conway Farms was a great week. I mean, it was a lot of fun and a great week. 
 My career, I guess after that and thinking that I had won the Aussie Open, I though I probably would've won a few more times out here. But I was going through a few swing changes, and through those tough times when I really grew in my relationship with the Lord and got close to Him. In the long run, I'm really thankful for that.
 And then Whistling Straits, I'm not in Whistling Straits right now. I got to win this week. I plan to be there. That would be nice. Have to have a good weekend and just try and get out there and have a chance to win on Sunday. 
 JOHN BUSH: All right. That does it, Aaron. Thanks for coming by.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT