JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 9, 2010
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Obviously a good day out there, still in contention after two days.   
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, it would have been nice to pick up a birdie on the last hole, but it's a tough hole. I mean, I'm right there, got a chance, just got to play good tomorrow. The course is -- there's a low score out there, so if you can just be patient and just try and make some birdies.  
  
  Q. You mentioned the course. How is it playing out there? Is it as nice as yesterday, or kind of compare the two.   
 AARON BADDELEY: To be honest, I didn't think it was any different today than yesterday for the afternoon. I heard it was a little wet in the morning, but for us in the afternoon yesterday, there wasn't really any difference.  
  
  Q. What are you most pleased with from your rounds and how you've been playing?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yesterday I felt like I drove it really well. I didn't quite drive it well today, but just been making the putts I needed to make and been hitting my irons really nicely. I've had quite a lot of birdie opportunities.  
  
  Q. When you see the leaderboard being what it is, how much does that affect the play for you guys, or how does that affect you?   
 AARON BADDELEY: You try not to let it affect you. I mean, you'd like to make some birdies, but it's really a matter of being patient because there's lots of birdies out there, just got to be patient and play your own game. Yeah, patience is the key.  
  
  Q. The last few tournaments here you played very well. You've kind of been on a roll. What do you attribute that to?   
 AARON BADDELEY: I felt like my game has been building. I feel like I've been playing pretty well since Hilton Head, really, just haven't scored all that well being -- just missed a couple up-and-downs or missed a couple of putts. But overall I feel like my game has been there, and this week just hit a couple of better shots and made a couple up-and-downs, and it's amazing what just a couple of shots over four days -- I mean, that's eight shots, so in the end that's a lot.  
  
  Q. Do you think you can score a 58? Are you going to go for that?   
 AARON BADDELEY: If I can make 13 birdies and no bogeys, I can.   
  
  Q. And you don't have to worry; you made the cut, so you have to sleep real good tonight and be ready to go get 'em.   
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, absolutely. I should have a late tee time tomorrow and should be able to rest up and come out tomorrow afternoon and have a good day.   
  
  Q. There's a lot of Australians in this tournament, 14 or 15. This is like your backyard.   
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I mean, I don't know. We've got a couple of Aussie winners, and -- yeah, there's a lot of Aussies on this TOUR, so it's great.   
  
  Q. With the scores from yesterday, was it discouraging for guys?  
 AARON BADDELEY: For me it wasn't because you know it's out there. If I see a low score in the morning, I think, that's good, that means it's out there, you've got a chance to go out and shoot a good score.   
  
  Q. How do you feel positioned heading into the weekend now?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Pretty good.  
  
  Q. You're in double figures.   
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, pretty good. I mean, I would have liked to have gotten one or two more coming in, you know, but 16 is what's leading. So we'll see what Paul does. I think 16 is going to be a great round to have for two days. Just need a good day tomorrow and hopefully Strick doesn't get too low.  
  
  Q. Is there a winning total? Maggert said this thing could go to 25-under. I don't know about that, but...   
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, it really depends on what Paul does later on today and then what Strick does tomorrow. You know, if Strick goes out and shoots 8-under, then he's blowing the field away, and it makes it tough for us to catch him.   
 All I can do is what I can do and just shoot the best score I can. That's all I'm worried about.  
  
  Q. You've got to feel like you're in position at 11-under.   
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I feel like I'm playing well. It's just a matter of just being in position come Sunday.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT