SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 3, 2017
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Aaron, what a terrific round, 66 today.  It was a little bit of a scramble master class.  Talk about the weather and how you did today.  
AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I mean, it was windy today.  There were a couple holes there where it was like a two- or three-club wind, which is really unusual here in Vegas.  But, I mean, it's just nice because it really brings out the good ball hitters and also the people who can be patient in this type of weather.   
 Q.  Now, you grew up in Melbourne, Australia.  You're pretty used to this wind.  Do you practice in a lot of wind?  You live in Scottsdale now?  
AARON BADDELEY: Whenever it's windy, I usually try to get out on the course and play on the course whenever it's super windy, just because it's hard to hit balls on the range during that.  But if you do, you have to play in the wind.  So it's nice to be able to get out when it's windy and know how far balls are going, when it's straight downwind or into the wind.  You can be two or three clubs up, swing easy, and it's nice.   
 Q.  You putted beautifully today.  Were you doing anything different?  You've had a little bit of a struggle so far this year with your putter?  
AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, actually, I got a new putter this week.  Ping made me a great club.  It's beautiful.  I've done some string drills on the putting green, which really sort of helped me get the ball started on the right line.  Just sort of through that, I let my body adjust and it's feeling good.   
 Q.  Well, it looked good today.  Have a great rest of the week.  
 Q.  Seemingly conditions were a bit more difficult than the first round, but you were able to turn in a better round.  What changed?  
AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I think today I just made a couple of putts, and I also had no bogies.  So when you do that, and you make a few birdies, you're going to keep going forward.   
 Q.  Was it one of those things that on the range you could tell it felt like it was going to be a good day?  Or once that first birdie dropped, you kept the momentum?  
AARON BADDELEY: Honestly, my game's been feeling great.  It's been feeling great for a while.  So it was just a matter of getting out there and playing, to be honest.  I'm pretty excited every day I turn up to the golf course.   
 Q.  What are you trying to carry over into the weekend?  
AARON BADDELEY: It's just patience.  Forecast for tomorrow is going to be super windy.  So it's going to be a real patience day tomorrow.  Just sort of picking up a bunch of pars and making some birdies.  If we can do that in the weekend, we'll be in a good spot on Sunday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT