VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 16, 2010
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Overall, your best finish since 2008 Verizon Heritage. What are your feelings about this and what does this say about the golf you're able to play right now?  
 AARON BADDELEY: I felt like I've been sort of knocking on the door the whole year. I feel like I've been playing well. I haven't been putting scores on the board.   
 This week I was able to make a few putts which I haven't been doing the first few months. I made some this week and put a score on the board.  
  
  Q. There was a lot made about the way you made your golf swing going back to Dale Lynch. When did you start really feeling the results coming from that?  
 AARON BADDELEY: I really felt like it freed me up a lot. I feel like I'm playing a little bit more instead of thinking about my swing and I'm all worried about what shot I want to hit. I really feel it's freed me up and I feel like I'm able to hit all different shots.  
  
  Q. What is the feeling right now being back in contention having that emotion rush through you?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Definitely. I just enjoyed it and just want to get back here at Memorial when I play next.  
  
  Q. Aaron, well played tournament. You finished strong with birdies on two of your last three holes.  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, it was a good week. I was trying to make a few birdies earlier in the back-9 there and wasn't able to get some birdies there and finished nicely.  
  
  Q. This course seems so difficult during practice rounds and early in the week. I know the Tour was generous in the set-up but a little bit surprised how deep Adam Scott went?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah. I mean I thought it was out there. I definitely thought if I could get it to 16 I thought that was going to be around the number.  
 And I mean you have to play well. But definitely the greens are a little bit receptive and you have to play well and Adam played, obviously, very well.  
  
  Q. Looking for your first win since 2007 in Phoenix. I thought you got a step closer this week.  
 AARON BADDELEY: Absolutely. It was nice making putts. It was nice to see some going in and definitely looking forward to Memorial for my next event.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT