VERIZON HERITAGE
April 15, 2009
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: I'd like to welcome Aaron Baddeley to the media center. Aaron won this event in 2006. And if you'd just start off, give general comments about coming back this year and how you're playing right now.  
 AARON BADDELEY: I always enjoy coming back here, there's a lot of special memories, being the first Tour win and being Easter Sunday. So definitely a lot of good memories here. And my wife loves it here. And the whole family comes down this week, it's a great week to come here and I really love it.   
 My game, is starting to get pretty good. I played well last week, just didn't quite putt well enough past the middle round to be in contention, but I thought I played well last week, so I feel very comfortable.   
  
  Q. You missed the cut your first time here, but since then you've played really well. Did you figure something out that first time here?  
 AARON BADDELEY: I remember the first time here was like in 2001, something like that. And I remember coming here and not playing very good. And then I sort of missed a couple of years. And then when I came back I guess around this golf course you've really got to use your imagination, because you can hit it in the fairways and have a tree in the way. You have to shape your ball around the trees. So it's something I enjoy doing it, playing the game and shaping the golf ball.  
  
  Q. What suits your game the best, why do you play so well? Is it your short game?  
 AARON BADDELEY: I think it's a combination of being able to shape the ball, and also short game. The greens are smaller here, and I feel that is definitely a strength of mine just how to shape the golf ball.  
  
  Q. Do you like to use your imagination, is that something you enjoy?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Absolutely. I think that's something that is partly lost on a lot of new course designs, is the imagination. So you go find it and hit it again. Where like here, all the trees come into play on every single hole. There's a lot of courses we play on Tour, newer courses that have trees on the course, but they don't come into play. I think trees give it the whole shape. It forces you to give a certain shot. Like I hit a good drive down 8 but it was to the left side and I had to hit a good draw around the tree to get it to the green. If I hit a cut I was in trouble. And I really enjoy that part of the game.  
  
  Q. I'm sorry, I don't know if anybody asked you this or not, you committed to the tournament late, were you back and forth?  
 AARON BADDELEY: No, I don't like to commit and pull out, so I'll commit later on. There was no decision. I was always playing here, I just didn't commit until later on.  
  
  Q. I figure you'd like to add a million bucks to your kitty, that would be nice?  
 AARON BADDELEY: An extra jacket would be nice.   
  
  Q. What about as far as the course, and again I can read whether you've discussed this or not, what makes this course right for you, because you've done so well here? What did you learn that first year when you didn't make the cut and you did so well the next three years?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I guess it was like imagination and like I was saying, that was the exact same question.   
 MODERATOR: That will be in the transcript.   
  
  Q. Just your assessment of the first three months of the year?  
 AARON BADDELEY: The first three months were a little frustrating, not playing as well as I wanted. I think that sort of lead to a swing change. I feel the past three weeks or four weeks I've felt my game has really improved quickly. I played well last week, so I feel like it's just going to keep improving and keep playing well.   
  
  Q. A bit of a shaggier look this year, does your wife like that or is that your doing?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Richelle does like it long. It's getting a little bit too long. It's starting to get a little annoying, so I'll get a bit of a trim next week. I've had it short for a time, so I'm going to go longer.   
  
  Q. When you go through such a dramatic swing change, is it hard to stay patient? Do you set different goals as you're making the progress? How do you work through that?  
 AARON BADDELEY: I feel like I'm not making huge swing changes. I'm doing a couple of things I did as a kid, so I know what I'm doing, and I know what the skill is, I guess you could say. So that's coming along really quickly.   
 So it's a matter of changing your goals, I guess, from being result oriented process oriented. If I can get this, this and this done, then the result will take care of itself. So I guess it's sort of taking your eyes off the results and go through the process, and the process will take care of the result.   
 MARK STEVENS: Thank you for coming in, Aaron, good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT