VERIZON HERITAGE
April 20, 2008
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. One of those days that started out so nice and calm, the breeze kind of kicked up, but that made it tough for everybody?  
 AARON BADDELEY: It was more the wind was swirling. It kept changing directions all the time. That's what made it hard to get it close. I just hit a couple of really good shots that the breeze didn't touch or read the breeze slightly wrong. This made it hard to get close to the holes.   
  
  Q. Does that make it hard to commit to the shot, too, because you say, I'm going to hit this, but then the wind is going to do something else to it that I don't even know?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah. A perfect example is on 7. We were about to tee off. It was in and on the left, a nice little 5-iron. When we start walking down to the green, the breeze switched around and it was down on us. It's just so hard to get it close like that.   
  
  Q. One more round in the 60s, though. You had another top-10 finish. That's three in a row, what do you take momentum-wise or swing-wise into Texas and on from there?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I was very pleased with my progression. I thought I hit the ball well. A couple of average shots with a couple of irons today, but overall the whole week I was very pleased. I'm looking forward to a week off to do a bit of work.  
  
  Q. You were one of the few guys who was able to get anything going on the back nine with birdies on 15 and 16. At that time did you feel like you really had to press hard?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I really felt like I was trying to birdie every hole coming in. I didn't get off to a quick enough start today.   
 I'm pleased with the week, because I've been playing well.  
  
  Q. 25 putts really is not bad on a golf course like this. But do you think three less putts, we'd be talking to you a little later than we are now?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I think it was just a couple of iron shots. I had a couple of short irons that I just missed by a couple of yards which could have been for birdies that would have been up and down for pars. So I'm a little disappointed in that.   
 Overall I'm pleased but I'm disappointed I didn't challenge him more.  
  
  Q. What's the schedule between now and Players?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Wachovia.  
  
  Q. And a lot of work in between?  
 AARON BADDELEY: Yeah. I always practice. I'm always trying to improve. That's the great thing about this game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT