VERIZON HERITAGE
April 19, 2008
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN vT ALEXANDER: We'd like to thank Aaron Baddeley for joining us here in the media center at the Verizon Heritage. 67 out there today. You're at 10-under. You played here before. Just talk about tomorrow and what it's going to take to maybe get on the top at the end of the day.
 AARON BADDELEY: Today was a good day, because I needed to get something where I could be in position to have a chance tomorrow. Boo being at 15, I'm just going to depend on him, really. If he goes out and 6-under, and obviously 11-under -- but I guess the important thing tomorrow for me is to focus on getting a good start, if I can get some birdies early, then I can close the gap and put a little pressure on him. 
 Tomorrow I'm going to focus on a good start and go from there.

 Q. You've got to feel pretty comfortable, because you've won here. You feel like you can do it?
 AARON BADDELEY: I do. I feel really good with my game. I hit a lot of greens in regulation, and hit a lot of really good shots, even though today even some of the greens I missed were like exactly where I wanted to hit it. I was a little bit long. I feel very comfortable with where my game is at, and also just drawing from the memories.
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER: It looks like right now you won't be in the lead group. Would you rather be in that lead group or one back? 
 AARON BADDELEY: I prefer to be in the lead group, just because you're right there with them. You can put some pressure on him and he can watch you making birdies. But being one in front you, he can watch you from the fairway.

 Q. Have you played with Boo?
 AARON BADDELEY: I have. He's an awesome player. I love playing with Boo. We played in San Diego. I don't know if you saw the highlights of when he did that funny run on 18. I thought I'd die laughing watching him. He's a great player. 

 Q. How were conditions today compared to the first two days?
 AARON BADDELEY: Some of the holes played a lot longer. I hit four drivers for two days. And today I hit probably six or seven. Probably six. It plays longer with the wind. But in the same sense, it made it a little easier in the sense of you knew exactly where the wind was coming the whole time. The first couple of days it was swirly and bounced off the trees because it wasn't as strong.

 Q. Boo is trying to defend his title, just like you faced last time. It's been since like '92. Should we read a lot into it how difficult it is to defend a title or the more challenges when you have to defend?
 AARON BADDELEY: In my opinion it's just another golf tournament, because no one can take that tournament away from you. It isn't like you start the next year as defending champion with a two-shot lead over everybody. It's a whole new event. I guess it can be difficult to back it up because you've got to play every game playing really well, like that same week. It could be a week difference, when you could win the week before or the week after, but not win back-to-back, just because it just happened to be that week. 
 For me there's no extra pressure if I'm defending champion or not. I just treat it as a separate and new event.

 Q. You say you enjoy playing with Boo, what do you like about his game? He seems to have a natural sort of rhythm. 
 AARON BADDELEY: He's a good ball-striker. He's a very good ball-striker. He hits it very straight. Creative. He can hit the draws, hit the fades, he can shape the ball. Around here you have to shape the ball. I think that's one of his stand-out points. 
 And he's very relaxed out there. He's not a serious guy out there, which can be good.

 Q. Do you steer clear when he's chewing tobacco out there?
 AARON BADDELEY: It's not very popular in Australia, so I have to get used to it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT