VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 23, 2017
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. After a lovely round of 68, Aaron Baddeley joins us in SkyCam.  How did you feel about your play?
AARON BADDELEY: I played really good today.  Just tough course.  You got to drive it well and hit a lot of good shots today.  Gave me a lot of opportunities.  A solid day.
Q. Going into the round at 4-under par, still needed to make a bit of a move.  Did you have a score in mind you wanted to post?
AARON BADDELEY: Double digits.  I get to 10.  The wind is still up a little bit.  There's a chance even on the back-9 I was really trying to get to 10.
Q. We're going take a look at that where you try to force the issue and did a good job here on 17.  Talk us through the play here.
AARON BADDELEY: Yeah.  Like 330 front and down on the left a little bit and just ripped driver.  Just had to let it go.  Got a nice bounce.  Little bank off the right there you can play that and see there it rolls up nicely to the green and I thought the putt really had a chance and sort of leaked a little bit right at the end.  I thought it was going to be straight.
Q. A lot of creativity and imagination required for a shot like this.
AARON BADDELEY: Big tee, big bounce.  You have to get the speed right.  Yeah, to hit a good putt like that down to tap-in range is good from that point.
Q. Strong way to finish as well.  When you look at your season so far, two Top 15s, this looks like it might be a Top-5 depending on how it finishes here in the final few groups.  What do you feel clicked this week?
AARON BADDELEY: To be honest, I played good over the year.  I think my putting let me down a little bit.  I haven't capitalized on the good shots.  My game is right there, really I feel like that, just stay the course and good stuff is going to happen and this week it played really nice.
Q. Baddeley missing putts is not --
AARON BADDELEY: I looked at something from old footage of 2000 and noticed something with my grip.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT