BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 9, 2007
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Aaron Baddeley in.  Aaron, runner-up finish, another fine tournament for you.  You got off to a little bit of a slow start with an even par start through six holes and hen it seemed to heat up with everybody, with you and Steve and Tiger, and it just turned into sort of a shootout this afternoon.  Maybe talk about that, and we'll open it for questions.   
 AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, I guess I started off a little bit slow.  Just missed a few fairways early but made some good saves.  A chip-in at the first was nice, a nice way to start.   
 And then, yeah, I was just -- on 7, I was just like, I've got to get going.  I made a nice putt on 7 from about 15 feet, and that seemed to be -- that started the ball rolling.   
  
  Q.  Yesterday you said you weren't looking at the leaderboard and stuff, but it must have been hard not to do it today.  You could see everything right in front of you there.  What was that like, just having to match a birdie after a birdie after a birdie like that?   
 AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, I mean, I wasn't looking at the board, but you could still know what he was doing obviously from the roars.  I felt like I was playing good, so I felt like I could keep matching him there.  And Steve was playing great, too, so I was sort of feeding off Steve, as well, because he was playing great, putting nicely.   
 And then he made that -- I made birdie on 11, and then I saw he got onto -- as soon as I was on the tee, I saw that ball go in on 12.  I didn't know what he did on the next hole.  I guess he made birdie there, as well.   
 I sort of knew what was going on, but I didn't quite know what was happening.  I looked at a board on 16 or something like that, so I knew -- I sort of knew what was happening.   
  
  Q.  Is it better not to look at the board?   
 AARON BADDELEY:  I mean, you have to look at a board coming down the stretch because I knew I was sort of a shot behind or two shots behind, and I wanted to know where I was at because then you've got to start taking risks if you're behind with two holes to go.  I felt like I was -- I did a good job today, I just didn't quite get it close enough to the hole coming down the stretch.   
  
  Q.  Does it make you feel any better that any other year you would have won any of these tournaments going all the way back to 1899 except for the one man today?   
 AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, I feel like I did well in that I didn't lose the golf tournament, he won it.  Shooting 8-under to win a golf tournament is a heck of a round.  I sort of made -- I felt like I made -- Steve and I sort of both made him do that because we were both playing well, and he just made a couple extra birdies at the finish there to get by us.   
  
  Q.  Talk about how the course played today.   
 AARON BADDELEY:  The course played great.  The fairways were firming up, the greens were a little bit firmer today, but they were still receptive enough where you could be aggressive with your iron shots.  But the course played really nice today.   
  
  Q.  Did it feel like there was no margin for error?  Steve and yourself didn't have too many bogeys in the round, but in the end it almost proved costly; it seemed like there was no room for mistakes almost?   
 AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, when you're shooting 6-, 7-, 8-under, making bogeys really doesn't help the cause to shoot 6- or 7-under.  So I guess in that sense, it is a small margin of error.  But the golf course is playing well enough where you feel like you can make quite a few birdies.   
  
  Q.  As far as the FedExCup goes, any idea where this leaves you going into next week?   
 AARON BADDELEY:  6th.   
  
  Q.  But as far as what you have to do next week, any idea?  Because there's so much math involved.  Did anybody explain it to you or anything?   
 AARON BADDELEY:  No one has explained it, but I know I can't win because Tiger started in front of me, and then he added 9,000.  So unless I get extra double points for winning next week, then I've got no chance (smiling).   
  
  Q.  Are you concerned about the conditions of the course in Atlanta?   
 AARON BADDELEY:  It is what it is.  I mean, it's unfortunate, but I mean, from reading the notice that was in my locker, I mean, the temperatures there have been unbelievably hot.  It's just going to be what it is.  I mean, it's going to be the same for everybody.  It's a good thing there's only 30 guys playing.  If there was like 140 guys playing, then it would be tough.  But having 30 guys, it'll help the greens.   
  
  Q.  Will you wait and go in like Wednesday or even Wednesday night instead of maybe going tomorrow or Tuesday?   
 AARON BADDELEY:  It would be nice to go home, but it's too far to go back to Phoenix for a day or two, seeing as I've got to be there by Wednesday.  I'll probably just head out maybe tomorrow or something.  I've never been there before.  I've got a best mate who lives in Augusta, so maybe I'll go there.  My wife has to go home because she's doing stuff to our new house.  She has to go home, otherwise we'd probably head to Chicago.  I love Chicago.  It's probably my favorite downtown in America.   
  
  Q.  Did you have a strategy before the start that you had to abort when you saw how Tiger played and that you couldn't react in another way?   
 AARON BADDELEY:  I didn't have a strategy beforehand except to make birdies because I knew that Steve was playing great, I knew Tiger was playing great, and the course was giving up some birdies.  I never changed my game plan with one club, really.  The only thing I did different today, I hit 3-wood off the 15th tee, which I didn't do the other days just because the wind was helping.  I still had 6-iron in there, so it was okay.   
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Aaron, thank you.  Good week for you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT