DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2007
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Aaron Baddeley in with a 1-under par today, a round of 70, 10-under for the tournament.  A bogey at the last hole, obviously very disappointing, but still, you're in position, and I know that's the key thing going into Sunday.  Just talk a little bit about that if you would, please, and then we'll open it up for some questions. 
 AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, it was very disappointing to bogey the last.  I've been driving the ball beautifully today and just hit it in the bunker and hit an awful bunker shot in the hazard.  But I played really nice today.  I hit a lot of great shots.  I felt like I got nothing out of my round in comparison to how well I played.  I was very patient.  I hit a lot of great shots. 
 I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  Obviously being three back, I'm going to have to shoot a good score.  But I'm looking forward to it.  I love this course, I love playing here, and I feel like I'm playing great.  Looking forward to tomorrow. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  What was the distance at 18, and was there hesitation about going for it? 
 AARON BADDELEY:  I never thought to not go for it.  It was only 206 front.  It was just a 5-iron.  I had a nice lie.  I just hit it fat. 

 Q.  You walked off 18 and just looked gutted.  How quickly do you put it behind you and really tell yourself tomorrow is a new day? 
 AARON BADDELEY:  I'll go hit some balls on the range and just forget about it.  I mean, it's over with.  You can't dwell on the past. 
 Like I said, I feel like I'm playing great, and today was one of these days I felt like I got nothing out of my round for how I played.  Even though I hit them to 30 feet, that's where I was aiming.  I drove the ball beautifully.  It's all in good order for tomorrow. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Was that the best you've played to not get something out of it in a while? 
 AARON BADDELEY:  No, it's something I feel like I did well -- similar things have been happening the last few months, it's just not getting the most out of my rounds.  But today was like I'd hit a good shot and I was right in between clubs, so it was sort of tough to get the right distance, so I couldn't get the ball as close to the hole as I wanted because I was always in between.  But yeah, like I said, I feel like I'm playing really nice. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  And your putting? 
 AARON BADDELEY:  Putting good.  I made some good saves today.  It would have been nice to make the save on the last.  I hit a good putt, just didn't break in the hole.  Like I said, every part of my game feels really nice. 

 Q.  Some of the guys coming off think there's a real low one out there tomorrow.  Do you think it's going to be a pretty good shootout? 
 AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, I think it's going to be good.  I think it's going to -- depends on the wind.  If it's like today, I think you're going to -- for me I'm going to have to shoot at least 6-under I think to win, minimum.  This means I've just got to play good and make some putts. 
 The key is just to get off to a good start.  If you can get off to a good start and get right in the mix, get next to the guys who are leading straight away, that makes a huge difference.  Coming down the back nine you can make a few birdies to get in front as opposed to making a few birdies to catch up. 

 Q.  How did FBR and that situation help and prepare you for tomorrow? 
 AARON BADDELEY:  Just knowing that I can shoot a low score on Sunday.  I was three back with four to go, and finished birdie, birdie, birdie, par to win.  It's just good to know that you can hit the shots and hole the putts when you need to. 

 Q.  Were you frustrated by the par 3s today at all?  You had two bogeys out of four. 
 AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, because I hit -- I saw a little bit today, like I hit -- on 8 I hit a beautiful shot there, 217 pin or something, wanted to land it 207, just on the front.  I hit it perfect, just a little smooth 5-iron, thought it was going to land short and roll up.  It landed pin high, rolled over the green, and then my putt had a spike mark dead on the line.  It was nearly an impossible putt to make because it was right on the line. 
 I hit a beautiful shot into 3 and hit a real -- and 4, hit a great shot to 4, just went long, made par. 
 And 11, hit a great shot, came up short. 
 I didn't hit a good shot on 16.  It was a bad three-putt.  It wasn't a bad three-putt, but it was just a bad tee shot.  I felt like I hit really good shots but got nothing out of it.  That's golf, you know?  You have those days. 
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Appreciate you stopping in.  Thank you.  Play well tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT