U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2007
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How did you play? 
  AARON BADDELEY: I played a nice, hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens and it felt comfortable. 

 Q.  Would even par feel good on another course? 
  AARON BADDELEY: I would say so, yes, because you're always going to have a few putts for par from 8, 10, 12 if I have ten feet, so to be able to make a couple of those feels like a birdie. 

 Q.  You might well be the leader tonight. 
  AARON BADDELEY: I'm not fussy if I'm leading or -- if I'm leading, great, if I'm not that's fine by me. Right now I'm in great position for the weekend. 

 Q.  What was your mind-set today? 
  AARON BADDELEY: Just fairways and greens, just trying to play well, I felt comfortable with my game so I didn't think I needed to do anything different. 

 Q.  You have a first coming up, first weekend in a U.S. Open in that type of competition, how do you feel going in? 
  AARON BADDELEY: Like this is my -- as I look back at 2000 and 2004, my game wasn't nowhere near close to this level that it is now. I drive the ball better now, my character, who I am as a person is so much stronger now because of those times and I feel that now that I have the patience and I have the tools to be able to play on the weekend and contend in the U.S. Open. 

 Q.  29 putts, it's standing you in good stead? 
  AARON BADDELEY: It's a U.S. Open. You've got to putt well. It doesn't matter because you're going to miss fairways and greens and you have to hole putts, so I feel comfortable with the putter right now and I'm going to keep rolling it and keep aiming for the hole. 

 Q.  How did the course play differently today? 
  AARON BADDELEY: I thought the greens were faster, the only difference, and a little firmer, though still the same this morning and probably the last 12 holes they were getting firmer and firmer as we went on. That's the difference. 

 Q.  Were you disappointed the other day to see the rain come? 
  AARON BADDELEY: Yeah, I was a little disappointed but I think it actually helped us out because I think this is the easiest the course is going to play right now and, I mean, two guys under par, something like that, so it's pretty tough. 

 Q.  Paul shot a 66, how remarkable is a round like that? 
  AARON BADDELEY: That's pretty impressive, that's like 62, 62 somewhere else because of how precise you have to be around this golf course, so that's an impressive round. 



 I was kidding with his caddy that he likes the second round in the majors, at Augusta he shot 68 and 66 here so he's got the second rounds down so far.  


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT