DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2006
Aaron Baddeley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  The wind was obviously gusting around.  Talk about the conditions.
AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, it was a tough day, a lot of longer shots into the greens, a lot of 5 , 6 irons.  That's what made it tough to make some birdies.
Q.  Was it blowing all the way from the beginning?  You went off at 7:30 in the morning.
AARON BADDELEY:  It blew from the start, right from the very first hole.  There was no advantage to playing in the morning.  But it was a tough day today for patience.
Q.  You were talking yesterday about enjoying playing with Tiger.  The whole group was trying to stay patient.  Is that something where you try to learn from each other under those conditions?
AARON BADDELEY:  You know Tiger is going to be there.  Today even par, 1 under would be a really nice score.  When I got off to a little bit of a rough start, I was like you just have to be patient, hang in there, I'm playing well, so just keep hitting good golf shots.
Q.  Does it feel like you left anything out there?
AARON BADDELEY:  I missed a couple of up and downs which were I thought pretty easy, but overall I'm pretty happy with even par just because of the way the course is playing.
Q.  What did winning that tournament a few months ago do for you as far as thinking maybe I'm finally getting to the next level a little bit?
AARON BADDELEY:  It was just good to know that I can play well and win.  I guess it's a little bit of a monkey off your back.  It was nice to know if I come out here and play well, I can win.
Q.  I know it's been kind of up and down so to speak.  What's kind of been the problems or the differences between that week and say the last three or four months?
AARON BADDELEY:  I started working with a couple new coaches in the last year, so I was still making changes during that time, and we're just sort of getting to the end of making some changes.  That's sort of what was going on in the middle there.
Q.  So winning was kind of a bonus in the process of changing around?
AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, definitely.  I was very surprised that it worked out that well that quick.  Yeah, so it was very encouraging for that to happen during the middle of making changes.
Q.  Who are you working with?
AARON BADDELEY:  Andy Plummer and Michael Bennett.
Q.  Where are they from?
AARON BADDELEY:  Michael is from Jersey and Andy is from Philly.
Q.  Can you give us a sense of what it's like to be out there playing in front of thousands of people?
AARON BADDELEY:  Yeah, they came to watch us tag along.  You don't really notice the crowds, honestly.  When they're big like that, you really don't see much movement because there's so many.  When you've got like 15 guys and one person moves, that's a problem.
Q.  Is it more pressure for you to make shots with so many people
AARON BADDELEY:  No, not at all because you're sort of more focused on what you're going.  I think it makes me more focused and concentrated on the shot.
Q.  Any conversations going on out there with Tiger?
AARON BADDELEY:  Today just a little bit.  We're both sort of very    we're both very    really trying to get the most out of each other's game, so you're sort of concentrating on your next shot.
Q.  How would you categorize your last few years over here?  You've done very well in Australia.  I guess nobody is ever really satisfied, but how about you personally?
AARON BADDELEY:  I would say it's been a big learning curve.  Obviously I haven't performed the way I wanted to.  I wouldn't say I'm pleased, but I know that it's for a reason and there's a plan behind it.  I'm looking forward to the next couple years.
Q.  What's the plan?
AARON BADDELEY:  Well, I'm a Christian, so obviously the Lord has a plan.  If I have to go through struggling on the golf course for that to happen, then that's fine by me because it's not the only priority in my life.
Q.  Is there anything about playing with Tiger that surprised you at all?
AARON BADDELEY:  I wouldn't say surprised me because I expect a lot out of him because of how great a player he is.  I learned a lot just from watching him, and I really enjoy playing with him.  He's a great gentleman and obviously a very, very good player, so you learn a lot by watching what he does, how he goes about things, how he tries to play, things like that.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT