ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 13, 2015
Angelo Mathews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







  ANGELO MATHEWS: Yeah, of course. I mean, it's nice to have played a bit more cricket in New Zealand before the start of the World Cup, but I think fromtomorrowonwards, whoever plays the best cricket will obviously go on to win. But I think we have a slight advantage. We got used to the conditions, and we have a fair idea of what the week could be like. But I think we've got to be aggressive and play good cricket to win against New Zealand. They are on a roll. They've been in plenty of games in the recent past, so we need to back ourselves and go out there and be positive.    ANGELO MATHEWS: Yeah, of course. It matters a lot. I mean, we've got so many experienced guys who have played three to four World Cups, and we have six or seven guys, and experience counts a lot when it comes to World Cup. They've been there. They've done it before. They've gone through all the emotions, the feelings, and they're going to add a lot to the team. But I think, still, experience doesn't really matter as long as you perform on the field on that day. That's all that matters.    ANGELO MATHEWS: The final 11 we still haven't decided, but yeah, Lasith will definitely be playing, and he is fit to go.    ANGELO MATHEWS: Yeah, I think in the recent past, especially in New Zealand, we've found ways of losing games more than winning games, and I think our late middle order haven't produced good results for us, but I'm pretty sure we're going to be ok‑‑ we had a couple of bad practice matches, as well, but we are not too concerned because we gave guys the opportunities, and we were trying out a few things, so we are not really concerned. But I think when it comes totomorrow, everyone needs to be on their guard and be positive.    ANGELO MATHEWS: The bowlers? Yeah, I think the conditions are quite different. Spinners have to do a holding roll here, especially in these conditions, so the fast bowlers have to try and attack. We've seen in the practice matches and also especially in the New Zealand series, they try and attack in the middle overs with seamers, which is a good option, and we've got the firepower to do that, it's just that we need to click as a group.    ANGELO MATHEWS: It actually depends on the weather, but the wicket looks really good. It looks like a really good wicket, and there will be a lot of runs on that wicket. But it depends on the weather, and I hear that the weather is not so good fortomorrow. But hopefully it stays good, and we'll get a good game out of it.    ANGELO MATHEWS: Well, obviously depending on the wicket, I think if it's a good wicket we'll try and bat first. If we've got the bowl we'll try and stop the opposition, and if we are to bowl first, we've still got the experience in our batting lineup, so it doesn't really matter for us, but I think as long as we play good cricket, our brand of cricket, we will be able to win.    ANGELO MATHEWS: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, as I said before, we've got a fairly experienced team, and they all put their thoughts on the table, how they got to the finals and all that. But past is past, we aren't looking too far ahead, we just want to take one game at a time and perform to our best in those games.    ANGELO MATHEWS: Yeah, we've talked about it. Sometimes you need the depth in the batting and the bowling, as well, so that's why we've played allrounders. But sometimes depending on the wicket, depending on the opposition, you might have to play those seven batters and four specialist bowlers, so depending on the wicket and depending on the opposition, we will try and do that.    ANGELO MATHEWS: Absolutely. The amount of service that they've rendered to our team has been invaluable. I think they have performed to the best of their ability, and they just want to win all the time, and they've contributed so much towards this team, and it'll be a fitting farewell if we can do it for them.    ANGELO MATHEWS: Not really. I mean, since the New Zealand series we've trained extremely hard, and we know their strengths and weaknesses, and vice versa, they know our strengths and weaknesses. So I think it's about on that day whoever performs well, whoever scores more runs will obviously win, so we've got to prepare ourselves for that. We've got to prepare for that challenge, and hopefully we can overcome it.    ANGELO MATHEWS: Absolutely. Playing at home always adds that bit more pressure, but I think they are a very good team to handle that, and they'll obviously come in, play positive cricket, so we are expecting a very good challenge from them, and hopefully we can work our way.    ANGELO MATHEWS: Yeah, of course that's what we are here for. We just want to be out there positive. We can't wait to get on the fieldtomorrowand to play positive cricket and try and beat the New Zealanders.    ANGELO MATHEWS: I think all their seven or eight batters, they've got a lot of depth in their batting as well as their bowling. They've got some good quality bowlers in their lineup, so you can't be complacent against the New Zealand team. If you grab hold of an opportunity where you can put them down, you've got to do that, and you can't just expect one guy and you can't plan out for one person, whether in their batting or bowling lineup.    ANGELO MATHEWS: I think more than changing around the time, I think it's the approach that we've got to bring into it, and it's the fighting spirit that we've got to bring into it. When you lose a few games, you tend to be a bit more down, and you've got to fight hard. I mean, it's going to be a fresh series for us. It's going to be the start of the World Cup, and we've put everything out there, but we're just trying to go there and be positive.    ANGELO MATHEWS: Yeah, the guys are putting a lot of effort in their fielding, as well. We haven't been consistent. We've fielded really well in one game and we've not been able to field well in the next game, so the consistency hasn't been there, but the guys have worked really hard and hope to do well intomorrow'sgame. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT