TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2019
Armand Shyne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions.   
 Q.  After the game, Coach Wells gave the game ball to the offensive line. How easy did they make your job on Saturday?  
ARMAND SHYNE: Offensive line did a great job blocking, which made it so much easier than it needed to be. They did great for me. Made it easy.   
 Q.  How easy is it for you to buy into being this group of runningbacks when now you have tape to say y'all got double-digit touches as long as you put the practice in?  
ARMAND SHYNE: It's a nice feeling knowing that we all have the ability to get touches in the game. Definitely gives us confidence during the week to know we're working, we're working to play.   
 Q.  Is it hard to really pinpoint points of improvement when you beat a team by such a high margin?  
ARMAND SHYNE: No, it's not really hard to find where you can improve. Watch the film, it's easy to find where we can definitely get better.   
 Q.  Where are y'all looking to improve on going into next week?  
ARMAND SHYNE: Picking up the tempo. We can definitely go faster than that. That's one thing, obviously.   
 Q.  How does a fast-paced offense like this complement your game, running style?  
ARMAND SHYNE: It just slows down the defense so it makes run through tackles really easy.   
 Q.  Can you take us through the 69-yard touchdown run?  
ARMAND SHYNE: I would say inside zone run, so I made my read, went to the A gap. I was running through the open field. I didn't make the safety miss, just kind of out-ran him. At that point I was running straight. At that point, I'm running for a minute. I don't know if I'm going to get caught or finish scoring a touchdown. I could go faster, but at the time I knew I wasn't going no faster. Something was going to happen. I crossed the line before he touched me.   
 Q.  Anybody give you any trouble or talk smack about that?  
ARMAND SHYNE: I'm sure they thought I was going to get caught, but I wasn't going to get caught.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
ARMAND SHYNE: I watched the game because I practiced with them. I like the way (undiscernible) makes people miss up the field. I lake the way Tate run hard, but he ran like he big, even though he's smaller. I just kind of see what they do and try to implement what I can do as well so I can make myself better.   
 Q.  Coach Wells talked about how much they want the running game to be more part of the team this year than last year. Have you felt that with your own personal role? Has it grown throughout fall camp how much of the offense you're going to be carrying?  
ARMAND SHYNE: I say as the runningback room as a whole, yes. I think we're more starting to realize that we're going to actually run it because I think, I'm not sure how many carries they got last year, but I'm sure they were not expecting how much we were going to get at the end of the day, so yeah.   
 Q.  What was the first game day like for you at the Jones? Anything that the fans did that threw you off?  
ARMAND SHYNE: Well, I heard there was tortillas. I don't know nothing about that. I have never ran through smoke before. When we were running through the smoke, I couldn't see anything. It made me really, really uncomfortable. I didn't like it at all. I don't like it (laughter).   
I'm going to do what I got to do so I can get on the field at least.   
 Q.  In terms of the rotation since you and Ta'Zhawn and SaRadorick played quite a bit, how far in advance do you know when you're going in? You're in next series?  
ARMAND SHYNE: Coach kind of just be like, Okay, so you're going to start this series, for this series you're going to back him up. It's just like that. We sit on the sideline, we ask him or he tells us, then we're, All right.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT