U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2015
Justine Dreher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. So you guys halved the first hole and then you kind of took command from there?JUSTINE DREHER: Yeah.  I mean, I made a good putt on 2 to save par.  I mean, it's a hard hole and a made a bogey in the playoff this morning.  I've had really -- I struggled with my putting on the first two days of stroke play, so I was really just determined to kind of putt better today, and I mean, I made the putt on hole No. 2 and I missed one on 3, but after that I really putted really, really well. I didn't miss any 10-footer or less besides hole No. 3, and I had a lot of them.  I really think the difference was my putting today, and just the fact that I knew I was playing against a player that's like in the top 10 in the world. I mean, I haven't been very confident.  I've spent the last 48 hours that was really tough for me, since Q-school, so I knew going into today, I have nothing to lose.  I'm not playing very good the last couple weeks.  If I want to get my game back, I have to stop losing my confidence, just playing and trying to hit the ball far and hit it good and just let it go, and I think playing against someone that just shot, I don't know, 4- or 5-under just kind of -- I really had to do it.  I had to force myself to let it go, so I think it was really good for me to play against the No. 1 seed.  I think that's really what's going to force me to let go of my game and just play and have fun and do this. I know if I just kind of just tried to play and tried to hang in there, it wasn't going to be enough against her.  I really had to force myself, and that's what I told my caddie this morning, I don't have the choice, I just have to give it everything and stop being scared, so it was good.Q. What was not going well with your game?  What part of it were you struggling with?JUSTINE DREHER: I played good going into Q-school.  I think I was really stressed a couple of days before it started.  I think my driving was terrible, like horrible, so yeah, I think it was just really stress.  I kind of put myself in a bad position after already 18 and then even 36 holes over there, so I played the last two rounds really just kind of trying to hang in there, and I didn't play that bad, but missing Q-school by one shot is always a little bitter.  So happy I got exempt for this tournament and I could play right away, even without a practice round, even without sleep for the first round.  It's good for me to just kind of be able to play another tournament and not go home and think about how I just messed up.  So yeah.Q. Did you get in through World Ranking?JUSTINE DREHER: Yeah, uh-huh, yeah.Q. What time did you actually get here after Q-school?JUSTINE DREHER: I was in bed at 1:30.  The French coach picked me up in the airport and we spent 30 minutes talking about the course.  I was with my yardage book in the car and she was driving, and she's like, okay, on hole No. 1 you have to hit it there, and hole No. 2 you have to hit it there and where the pin is there, just kind of telling me where I have to hit it, and I got a local caddie for the first two rounds of stroke play, which helped me a lot, and then my French friend missed the cut, so I asked her to caddie for me, and she wanted to caddie for me.  It's just the thing in France that we do.  When someone misses the cut, we caddie for each other.  It also helped me a lot to have someone that I really know and that I'm comfortable with to really kind of be a little happy again.Q. Do you think she'll keep caddying for you?JUSTINE DREHER: Yeah, she will.Q. What's your plan now?  You're not going to play the second stage of Q-school, so where do you go from here?JUSTINE DREHER: I don't know.  I haven't had the time to look into -- I know I have some sort of status on Symetra.  I don't know exactly what it means, how many tournaments I can get in.  I haven't -- I literally came straight here from Q-school, so I haven't had the time to look into how many tournaments I can get in.  First thing I said when I came off Q-school was like, well, I've got to go win the U.S. Am to get invitations next year.  I'm just really trying to play my best here, and I think a good result will help me get some invitations into Symetra Tour events.  I just have to look into it next week when I settle down and go home.  Maybe I'll go to LET Q-school.  If I stay top 25 in the world I will get exempt from stage one of LET, so I'll go directly to the final stage, so that will help me a lot, as well.  That's another reason why this tournament is important, because just for myself right now, for being able to stay in the top 25 and be exempt for LET Q-school and go straight to the final stage, and also just to get my name out there and try to get some invitations if I can next year for Symetra Tour, so yeah.Q. How many stages are there for LET, just two?JUSTINE DREHER: Two.Q. That would be big, wouldn't it?JUSTINE DREHER: Yeah, that would help me a lot.Q. Who is your swing coach?  Is it the French National Team coach?JUSTINE DREHER: Well, at school it's Puggy Blackmon.  He's our assistant director of golf.  He's kind of the head.  So he's the one who's coached me for my swing since I've been in college.  I haven't seen him all summer, but I'm actually going to Columbia right after here for a couple days to be able to work with him.  So he takes care of my swing here, and when I'm home, it's the French national coaches.Q. Is that Karine?JUSTINE DREHER: Well, it was Karine until September, and then in September she retired from the federation because she got another job, and so the coach that was the under-18, like the girls' coach, Edouard Brechignac, he is now the head coach for the over 18 years old. I'm still a lot in contact with Karine and she still helps me a lot.  I don't get to see her a lot.  I saw her like this winter, but I don't get to see her that much, but she still helps me a lot.  I talk to her every day when I'm in a tournament and Edouard when I'm playing tournaments in Europe is the one that works on our swing, with every player, and then there's another French coach here.  We have a lot of coaches.  We're really lucky.  We have another French coach here, she lives in Florida, so she comes often to the tournaments that are in the U.S., and yeah, we're like five players here, so she came, and she works with us, too.  She helped me a lot with my driving when I got here.  I played my first round and then I hit balls for like an hour and a half with her, just tried to fix my driving a little bit for this week.  So we have a pretty good staff.  Everyone kind of works together and talks to each other, and yeah.  It seems complicated, it's pretty simple.Q. Karine Mathiot, is that --JUSTINE DREHER: Karine Mathiot, yeah.Q. And then Edouard?JUSTINE DREHER: Yeah, yeah, Brechigac, B-r-e-c-h-i-g-a-c.Q. So he's kind of the head coach now?JUSTINE DREHER: Yeah, yeah, him and Patricia Meunier-LeBouc are like together -- not together-together, but work together.  And then we have like physical coaches, like strength coaches and stuff, but yeah.  It seems complicated.  It's really not that complicated.Q. It's got to be really helpful to have that support team for you?JUSTINE DREHER: Yeah, it is.  I was pretty lucky.  I think most of us are pretty lucky.  I got into the French system when I was 14, so since then, I mean, they took me under their wing and I've had coaches supporting me and helping me out since then, and they help us out a lot with helping us figure out what we need to do and even financially and stuff like that.  Yeah, I mean, we are really lucky and they are -- the federation, I wouldn't be here without the French Federation, that's for sure.  I moved out of my parents' house to work with them and be under their wing when I was young, and most of us have.  And it's really good because we have kind of a family because we lived together and practiced together and stayed in dorms in high school together.  So yeah, it's -- yeah, we're lucky.  Yeah, definitely.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT