U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2019
Austin Squires
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congratulations, man.
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Thank you.
Q. Long day for you.
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Oh, my goodness.  It was very long and stressful.
Q. What did you do between end of the playoff and the start of the match?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: We went back to our condo, got some lunch, and just showered and came right back.  Honestly didn't have much time to relax.  Just a quick turnaround.  Just got ready for the match.
Q. Find yourself having trouble refocusing?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: No.  It was actually kind of -- it was kind of nice that I had already played a couple holes before the match.  Granted, it was on 4, which a little different, but it was kind of nice.  It was a little easier getting rhythm.
Yeah, I wouldn't say it was an advantage, but it was nice.
Q. Is there any kind of mindset of, okay, I got through the playoff; that was really the hard thing today.  Now let me just go out here -- I'm just curious if your mindset changed once you started match play.
AUSTIN SQUIRES: No, I was just kind of taking it like it's in the past.  I got to focus on the present.  Granted, I was ecstatic to make it out of the playoff.  Very happy for that.
But I just wanted to stay as present as possible.
Q. Long day today.  Another long day tomorrow potentially.  What is being able to go through a playoff and then going into another match, taking down the No.1 seed, do for your confidence going into what could be 36 more holes tomorrow?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Yeah, I mean, huge confidence boost beating Brandon Wu.  He's so good and coming off an incredible summer.  I knew I had my hands full today.  I don't know who I'll play tomorrow, but I'm sure I'll have my hands full tomorrow as well.
Q. How long of a wait did you have yesterday from the time you finished to the time you...
AUSTIN SQUIRES: So I teed off at 7:56 yesterday, and I think I was done just before 1:00 yesterday.  I found out this morning that I was in the playoff.  I think when I woke up it was like tied for 67, and then couple guys kind of faltered down the stretch and it moved to 62.
Q. What time did you wake up?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: 6:30-ish I think.
Q. When you woke up were you expecting to keep playing today or did you think you were packing your bags?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: You know, I thought it was going to be close.  I honestly thought there was only going to be one spot.  I didn't think there was going to be three.  Thought it was going be like 30 for one and then it was going to be pretty difficult.
Q. So you woke up at 6:30 and checked your phone?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Yeah, just checked the phone.  Didn't start playing until 7:20.  I got the notification last night that the playoff was going to be done at 9:15 no matter what, so I just took it as that's my tee time.  I just woke up and got ready for that.
Q. And you then had the first tee time this morning.
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Yes, sir.
Q. What did you do during the wait?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: In between holes?
Q. In between holes.
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Just kind of sat there with my family.  Just talked and watched the golf.  I mean, just tried to stay as loose as possible.  Definitely did a lot of stretching.  I was waiting for an hour in between each hole.  I got pretty tight.  I was just trying to stay as loose as possible.
Q. Was it frustrating?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Waiting?
Q. Yeah.
AUSTIN SQUIRES: No, no.  I kind of enjoyed watching the golf, too.  It was stressful.  Like I liked it and I didn't.  I didn't like it that someone could have made me pack my bags.  At the same time, I kind of enjoy spectating sometimes.  That was kind of nice.
Q. Take anything away from watching everybody else play?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Not really.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT