U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2018
Austin Squires
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. We've got Austin Squires, who's also advanced to the quarterfinals of the U.S. Amateur.  Quite a long day for you, Austin, but very fulfilling because you are a quarterfinalist at the U.S. Am.  How does that sound to hear that?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: It's huge.  It was hard fought.  I played 37 holes today, and there was never a moment of relief.  I mean, it was a grind out there for sure on this golf course.  But now that I'm moving on, I'm probably going to rest tonight for sure because that was a very tiring day.  But yeah, it's super special to get this far and try and get even further.
Q. How did you hold up against the grind?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: I did okay.  My putter really saved me today for the most part.  My match against Luis Gagne, I made a lot of putts that I don't normally make, so that really gave me a lot of confidence going into my second match, as well.  Just kind of gave me momentum when I wasn't striking it well.  So yeah, it was just grinding it out, making 15-footers to halve holes, and it was a fun day.
Q. The fact that you got to the quarterfinals of the U.S. Amateur and it's at Pebble Beach, where does that stand among your accomplishments as a golfer?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: It's pretty high up there.  This field is so good every year, and at this venue, it's so special.  It really hasn't sunk in yet how special it is with all the history.  I'm trying to etch my name on a little piece of history, as well.  So it's really cool.
Q. Looks like you went into 18 all square.  Can you describe that feeling going into an iconic or difficult hole kind of knowing you have to perform there?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Right, yeah.  You look out there, and you see ocean and then a little sliver of fairway.  It's definitely very nerve-racking up there all square because you've got to step up and hit a really good shot.  I just told myself, you hit drivers all the time, and you can hit this shot.  So I just aimed it just left of the tree and hit it, and it ended up well.
And then went for the green in two and hit it on luckily and two-putted.
Q. Did you play at Riviera last year in the U.S. Am?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: I did.
Q. Was that your first U.S. Am?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: I did, and I failed to make match play.
Q. How did the experience of traveling all the way out from Kentucky to the West Coast, did you learn anything last year that made you more comfortable this year?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Absolutely.  That was my first time in California, and this is my third time in California, first time in the San Francisco area, Monterey.  But yeah, that was a huge learning experience not only within the rounds and how they're going to go, but also in my preparation for the stroke play rounds, because it's pretty different where you're playing one course one day, one course the other.  So that was a little different.  So playing last year, I kind of knew what to expect and was a little more prepared for that in that aspect and I had a little better mindset going in this year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT