U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2018
Austin Squires
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Let's start off with the good news.  Eagle on your second hole.
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Yeah, that really got things rolling.  I was kind of contemplating whether or not I should go for the green because I was in the right rough, but I had a really good lie, so I thought, might as well try and get it up there somewhere around the green, and I was just short in the rough, and I chipped in, so that was a really big momentum boost.
Q. How long do you think that chip was, and what club did you use?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: It was about probably -- I would say about 20 yards away from the pin, about two or three yards off the green.  I hit kind of a higher trajectory, and it kind of landed soft and rolled right in.
Q. And the club was?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: 60 degree.
Q. And then obviously you kept it going there, and then you got a birdie on 13.
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Yeah, so I believe I had 166, playing 173, and I just played a 170 shot, and I hit it to about three feet or so.  It was pretty simple.  So I didn't have very many putts through the first couple holes because I had a longer putt on 10 and then chipped in on 11 and then chipped it to about an inch on 12 and then had three feet on 13.  I really didn't have a putt until the 14th hole.
Q. When you have that kind of a start, what kind of confidence does it give you?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Right, I mean, when you start off hot, you try and keep it going, just kind of ride the momentum.  I kind of slowed down a little bit, but on this golf course it's hard to keep the momentum going with all the difficulties around the greens and some tight fairways.  I'm very pleased with how I did.
Q. You also had another birdie on the par-5, the 7th hole.
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Yeah, I hit that in the left rough.  Actually I laid up to about 105 yards, and then I didn't hit a great shot.  I was about 20 feet short right of the pin and kind of caught the right edge and went in, so it was kind of a good break.  So that was nice.
Q. To shoot this kind of score, what kind of expectations did you have coming in?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Right, so after playing a practice round, I knew anything under par was going to be a good round, so I mean, I was just trying to make as many pars as I could and let the birdies come to me, because that's really all you can do, just control the controllables.  So I'm very pleased with 70 today.
Q. Playing last year, did that help you familiarize yourself with playing in this --
AUSTIN SQUIRES: Absolutely.  Last year was a big experience because I kind of learned how to -- what to expect, and I was a lot more prepared this year for the tournament as far as like in the practice rounds and what to do, because it's kind of awkward playing one one day and one the other.  I feel I got a good preparation going, so all I had to do was play my game today.
Q. Your college coach is Doug Martin, and he's won a USGA championship.  Did he have any advice to give you?
AUSTIN SQUIRES: I mean, he just kind of told me to do my thing, and he just kind of helped me with my game plan around the course because he played here on TOUR a couple times, so he had a little insight.  A combination of him and his expertise and also Steve Flesch from that area, I'm good friends with him, and he helped me out, as well.  Having those two minds around me is very helpful.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT