NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL INVITATIONAL
July 15, 2007
Chris Nallen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Chris, thanks for taking time to talk to us today.  I know it's a little bit of a disappointing finish not winning today, but what an exciting day overall.  Just comment on the day for us.   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  Yeah, it was quite a day.  I made a lot of pars out there and didn't really get anything going.  Made one birdie on 4 and just kind of after that just kin d of went stale.   
 It was exciting though.  Obviously Daniel played great.  I can't really remember a shot that he hit that it wasn't -- I don't know, maybe he hit one or two that were bad that he didn't like.  He was right on.  He had a great week.  My hat's off to him.  He played exceptionally well and played smart when he needed to and was aggressive when he needed to be.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Were the putts just not falling for you?   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  Yeah, I didn't putt well today.  I was struggling with it and just couldn't get anything on line or off the middle of the face.  I actually hit a good putt there on 18.  Just lost speed at the end and tailed off.  That was actually the one good putt I hit all day.  It was on line and I just needed to either hit it a little harder or play more break.   
 But I think what hurt me coming down the stretch was my iron play.  I hit a lot of irons right and short-sighted myself a couple times there and put myself in some bad spots with some irons there on 15 and, God, I can't remember the others.  But, yeah, it's just some bad swings there.   
 THE MODERATOR:  And even though coming up a little short, just still a confident feeling for you heading into the last half of the season?   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  Yeah, I think so.  Definitely.  I got next week off and I'll work on some things there can get ready to go to Omaha.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  Yeah, I had been playing well out of the bunker all week.  I had hit an about one on 11.  17 I was kind of upset about.  It was an easy bunker shot and it was almost sitting too good.  I just kind of hit it a little hard.   
 15 was just bad.  You don't want to be there at all.  Little green to work with.  17 at least I had some green to work on.  Yeah, you just can't miss it in those spots.  I wasn't aiming there, I just kind of missed them there.  I was aiming for the middle of greens and trying to work the ball back into the pin and just came out of a lot of them.   
  
  Q.  Two questions:  Do you prefer courses where you don't have to shoot 20-under to win?  And second, talk about the event, only four months to get it ready, how it got pulled off compared to other events.   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  Yeah, I like hard courses.  This is very similar to Rochester on the tour where you got to kind of think your way around the golf course and hit shots and be creative.  It kind of fits my style.  The harder the course the better.   
 As for your other one, they did a wonderful job.  The course was in great shape.  I played here in 2002.  Is that when the National Championship was here?  It's a little different.  4 is a different hole.  But Jack's done a good job.  It played great.  It played hard and it played fast.   
 Obviously the wind helped that out a little bit, but it was great.  It's a great venue and everybody did a great job.  We just felt right a home hospitality and food-wise and location.  Great spots eat and hang out here, so it was nice.   
  
  Q.  Pin positions, guys were saying were just brutal.   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  Yeah, they were.  They were.  Every day it seemed like there was just a couple that were just -- they didn't even seem like they were on the green.  But I think that was our game plan all week was just to try and hit the middle of greens.  If there was a shot that maybe fit my eye I could maybe go after one.   
 There were a lot of pins today that were on knobs.  You just had to be careful.  Sometimes better to be 30 feet from the hole on the right side than it was six feet behind the hole or something.   
 It wasn't unfair at all.  They set up it really.  The officials did a great job setting the course.  They made it a fair and tough challenge.   
  
  Q.  First time an am has won a Nationwide event ever.  Is there a part of you coming down the stretch thinking, he really maybe hasn't been here; we'll see how he holds up?   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  Nope.  Not at all.  There is so much talent right now with college.  It's just getting better and better.  Doesn't surprise me at all.  He played great all week.  He hung in there.  I'm sure he's been in big events before.   
 He handled himself wonderfully and hit the shots when he needed to and made the putts when he needed to make the putts.  That's just, you know, give a bunch of credit to him for that.  He's got a great, bright future ahead of him.    
THE MODERATOR:  I guess the upside is you get to split first place money.   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  Yeah.   
 THE MODERATOR:  A little over $100,000 you'll earn.   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  So it's nice.  I don't look at it like that.  Obviously it was I came here to win.  Didn't get it done, but I learned a lot.  I know what to work on.  That's what we'll do.  Just keep working harder and getting better.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Anything else?  That's good it.  Thanks a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT