NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL INVITATIONAL
July 14, 2007
Chris Nallen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We welcome Chris Nallen to the interview room.  1-under today, 70 for you today, Chris.  Tough conditions out there, but you've got to be pretty pleased to bring it in the house with an under par score.   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  Yeah.  I think it was windier than the first day maybe.  I didn't experience the wind -- I experienced the wind Thursday my last nine, but we had it all day today.   
 Just a matter of being patient and sticking with all your yardages and hitting the right club at certain points and just kind of backing off when there was a gust.  I think we were able to do that pretty well.   
 Solid round.  15 and 16 were tough.  They are.  They were brutal.  But I didn't really make any bad decisions, just didn't execute shots the way I wanted to.  Was able to finish with a birdie at 18.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Anything in particular working for you today?  Talk about the round as a whole.   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  Well, I think just my irons.  You know, I was able to hit those fairly well.  I drove the ball a little bit better today.  Just made some key putts I think, you know, especially on the back when I didn't hit as many greens.  I think I hit three on the back.   
 Just able to make some good par putts, and I think that's what saved me and kept the round going.  I got it to 6 at one point and then I got 15 and, like I said, I didn't make a bad decision.  I hit driver.  We just felt like it was the right play.  We had hit 3-wood and 2-iron on Thursday/Friday.   
 It's just one of those holes where it just doesn't fit your eye.  I felt like driver was a right to left wind, and I felt comfortable hitting driver in a left to right wind.  I just didn't hit it the way I wanted to, but I felt comfortable with it and trusted it.  I don't regret anything I did on the hole, I just didn't execute like I said.    
THE MODERATOR:  When we're used to seeing -15 and -20 winning each week it seems like, is this a fun challenge for you?   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  Yeah, I like it.  It's a lot like Rochester where 7-, 8-under wins.  You know, it's just, you know, you got to think your way around the golf course.  It's not -- I know next week it'll be a putting contest.   
 I think -31 under won there last year or two years ago.  I think it's better.  You got think your way around the golf course, you got hit and produce shots, and it just brings out every part of your game.  It's not just bomb it and see if you can make a putt.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Got off to a great start with birdies on the first two holes.   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  Yeah.  Hit a good little wedge on 1.  Made about an 8- to 10-footer.  On 2 I hit a really good shot:  5-iron just kind of kept it underneath the wind.  Probably the best shot I hit all week to about three, four feet.   
  
  Q.  How far was that 5-iron?   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  We have 197 to the hole.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Birdie on 14.   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  Birdie on 14, yeah.  I hit a decent drive.  Just kind of kicked right into the rough.  We had an opening and I just hit a nice little punch 9-iron to about six, seven feet and had a little slider there that I knocked in.   
 And then you guys know 15 and 16.  Then 18 I hit a good drive off the tee and hit a good little 7-iron in there.  It was about 167 back to the hole and hit it on the left side there and gave myself a little uphill putt at it, a little breaker about 15 feet, knocked it in.  It was a nice way to finish.   
  
  Q.  Any added pressure being in the final group going in tomorrow?   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  I don't think so.  I'm just going to keep playing my own game and trying to just keep producing shots.  I'll go work on a couple things around the greens tonight that I need to, you know, get a little better at.   
 Just trust more.  I think it's more of a trust issue right now.  You know, being out on the golf course rather than the practice range.  I can do it all day at practice round, but when it comes time it's just trusting it and knowing you can hit the shot rather than backing or shying away from it.   
 As long as we get that squared away I'm feeling good.  Feeling like if I make some putts tomorrow I feel like I can shoot a good number.   
  
  Q.  How much confidence would a win here give you going forward?   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  It's huge.  Obviously this is one of biggest purses out here this week.  But not only that, just any time you win it gives you confidence.  I've won out here before.  I know I can do it.  It's going to be fun.   
 I don't know how Daniel finished or -- but it'll be fun.  I'll be trying to enjoy myself.  Just go out there and have a good time.   
 We're having a good time.  My caddie and I are getting along well.  We're having a good time.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Anything else?  All right.  That's got it, Chris.   
 CHRIS NALLEN:  All right.  Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT