PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2012
Corey Prugh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Two days on this golf course, and the first two rounds, it can come up and grab anybody.   It lived up to its ranking would you say?  
COREY PRUGH:   Yeah, absolutely.  
   
 Q.   Is it like anything you've ever faced?   
COREY PRUGH:   I played the U.S. Am at Oakmont, and that was pretty hard, too.   The conditions of just the golf course, it was probably harder, but today is what this golf course is about.   They said playing the practice rounds that it was just weird with no wind out here.   The wind definitely‑‑ with how the greens are built, the fairways, they're all angled and funny with the wind, very hard place.  
   
 Q.   Was it just the approaches or just a combination of things?  
COREY PRUGH:   Just a combination of things.   Some shots seemed easy, some shots, tee shots were hard.   It was just a combination.   It's just the angles at which the wind blows, and I think it changes.   I played a practice round and flew it okay, but the angles, the wind was different.   It made some shots not seem as hard.   But it's just hard, long.   
   
 Q.   Obviously this wasn't the result you wanted, but what can you say about the experience you did have here?  
COREY PRUGH:   I think it's a good experience.   I probably got out of my comfort zone and didn't play golf like I know how, just with all the surroundings being new.   I learned a lot from that, and I'd like to come back and try again.   Great experience.   I wouldn't change it.   I learned a lot.   Just got to keep working harder.  
   
 Q.   That's probably what the members of your family would say, who are also good players.   
COREY PRUGH:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   They'd recommend that you grow from the experience?  
COREY PRUGH:   Absolutely grow.   Most of it's just mentally I got out of my comfort zone.   I was thinking about it, I didn't play golf how I normally do.   I hit shots quicker, I didn't think through a shot, just like the National Club Pro I felt like I was a little calmer the whole time and was able to think through some shots and stay patient.   You live and learn, you know.   I didn't die, so I'll be back.   
   
 Q.   This has been a unique week all the club professionals as you know.   Seven of them, which you're included, it was your first time in a major, so that is one off the books now and you have some things to look forward to next year, going back to Sun River, in your part of the world, and it's not far away from where you live?  
COREY PRUGH:   Not far, about a seven‑hour drive from where I live.  
   
 Q.   Which is Spokane?  
COREY PRUGH:   Spokane, yeah.   Beautiful place, love that course.   Try and get back there and play a little before the championship.   I want to get‑‑ where are we at, Oak Hill next year?   
   
 Q.   Yes, sir.   
COREY PRUGH:   Be up in the north and the trees and maybe it'll suit my eye better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT