WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 2ND ROUND POOL E
March 14, 2017
Hiroki Kokubo
Seiichi Uchikawa
Tetsuto Yamada
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JAPAN 8, Cuba 5
Q. This is a big, big win to go to the semifinals.  What goes through your mind for tonight's contest?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, this is a big-time game against Cuba in the tournament.  Although Cuba, Sugano pitched for the first time ever for Team Cuba, but second time playing is tough to play against.  Their catcher swings the bat very good.  That was one of the key points.  We let them ahead three times, but our opponent, our offense, worked very well and the game tied three times, and that was a very good game.
Q. Like you just mentioned, Sugano gave up four runs in four I thinks.  How do you feel about Sugano's pitching?  How do you feel about Sugano's outing for tonight?
HIROKI KOKUBO: When I decide to go to Sugano, I have no regret no matter what the result is.  Sugano tried to work hard, and I am pleased that we won.
Q. The guy next to you, Mr. Yamada, he led the lineup.  You changed the batting order and you put him at the first hitter again.
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, the reason why we changed it the last game is against VandenHurk, started for the Netherlands.   At the BP session before the game, Yamada is good.  I told him, you're going to hit tonight and he just hit.
Q. In the 8th inning, you sent a pinch hitter for Ishikawa, can you explain the reason why you send Uchikawa for Kobayashi?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Basically that was a tied game situation.  If the game was tied, I don't think it's a good idea to change the catcher.  But today is an important game, so that's why I put Uchikawa and I'm pleased that Uchikawa hit the game-winning sacrifice fly at that clutch situation.
Q. Now your record is 2-0 and you have another game with Team Israel for tomorrow.  What's in your mind for Team Israel?
HIROKI KOKUBO: If we win, no matter what the run scores, the differences, that could go straight to Los Angeles, so we just wanted to win.
Q. In the lineup, batting first, before the game start, did you have any -- do you have the same emotions as usual?
TETSUTO YAMADA: Yes, the last four games, I don't think I swing the bat good, and they put me backs in the lineup batting first, so I have a strong will that I work for the team.
Q. As a result, you hit two home runs.  How do you feel about hitting two home runs?
TETSUTO YAMADA: At BP session, I swing the bat very good.  So I feel that I have a confidence and I could swing my style, so I'm very happy about it.
Q. The WBC is such a strong tournament, and playing through the WBC, do you have any mechanic change or do you have any mental change approach?
TETSUTO YAMADA: Well, I'm trying not to think a difficult way.  Try to stay back, try to stable the balance.  The base things, these are the things I am always trying to be.
Q. In the 8th inning, like the manager mentioned, that was a tough situation.  They have many options and the skipper sends you as a pinch-hitter.  Were you ready at that time?
SEIICHI UCHIKAWA: Well, I was told that the runner on second or the third, I was told to be a pinch-hit, so I was are.  And Akiyama a runner to second, scoring position.  I just gave everything I had.
Q. That fly ball, it could be a foul ball.  What is in your mind after you hit the fly ball?
SEIICHI UCHIKAWA: Yes, I was praying, "Please catch, please catch."  In that clutch situation, if we score a run or not, it's a big difference.  So if I could hit -- if I could hit an RBI single, that could be a better story, but no matter what the result is, we score, that's the very important thing.
Q. You are not a starting lineup guy in the tournament.  How do you prepare for the games, if you have any specific method or routine for the game?
SEIICHI UCHIKAWA: Well, when I play for SoftBank Hawks, I always have four at-bats.  But as a member of the national teams, I concentrate every single one at-bat.  And there's no waste time, there's no waste pitch, there's no waste at-bat.  These are things I always concentrate.
Q. Today's win is a big step for the semifinal.  How do you feel about going back to the United States?
SEIICHI UCHIKAWA: In 2013, I had a big regret but these are things, personal things.  Impart of Team Japan now, and the chemistry of our team is very good.  So I wish we could have a 6-0 record and go back to the states.  That's what I'm hoping right now.
Q. When you watch I can't mad a's BP session, did you talk to Yamada personally that you could hit for tonight or not?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Well, I didn't mention to Mr. Yamada by himself but I had a conversation at the coach's room.  I was told before, once again, that when we play against Team Netherlands, VandenHurk was the starter, and I decide to put more speed guy at the leadoff spot, so that's why we changed the lineup at Team Netherlands game.
Q. Does that big win give you more relax and you could have a daily meal and your pressure got off a little bit?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Well, we have to win for tomorrow's game for the first round, first place so.  Today's game is already past.  So for tomorrow, we are going to play for win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT