NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 6, 2000
Pavel Bure
Valeri Bure
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Pavel, after you scored your third goal, you guys had a give-and-go, you were
working together. It got broken up. You had your arm around Valeri afterwards, were you
telling him that he should have taken the shot?

PAVEL BURE: After third goal?

Q. After the third goal.

PAVEL BURE: It is kind of funny situation because after second period we were talking
in the dressing room, I said, "If we have 2 on 1, just go to the off post, I will
give you a pass, and shoot it right away." But he tried to get me the fourth goal;
that is why he gave it back to me.

Q. Pavel, what does it mean to you to win this award?

PAVEL BURE: Well, obviously it is a great honor for me to be MVP of All-Star Game. It
was just special night for me. I was playing with my brother. He set up two goals for me.
He was on my line and he helped me to get MVP, so it is just a special night.

Q. Can you just talk about playing with Pavel and give us an update on the baby
situation.

VALERI BURE: Well, baby is still in. Hasn't come out yet. What about my brother? You
know, I don't think I can say that much about him. He is a very electrifying player,
brings a lot of fans out of their seats. I am his biggest fan sometimes when I am
watching, I am doing a lot of standing. So today was one of those nights when I could
actually play on the same line and it is actually pretty easy to play with him. Every time
you give him the puck, it is 99% it is a goal. So just try to give him the puck and go to
the net, make it easier on me. He doesn't make that many mistakes. He always puts it in.

Q. Given the fact that he told you to shoot the puck before the period, why didn't you
listen to him?

VALERI BURE: You know, younger brother never listen to older one. (LAUGHTER). But, you
know, I think it would be super special -- it is -- it doesn't get any better, he got MVP,
three goals, it is nice if he got a fourth one, so it would be fun.

Q. Pavel, could you talk a little bit about what it meant to you to be involved in the
opening screen today with the three players yesterday and Gordie Howe and Wayne Gretzky?
Also, can you tell us, have you ever skated, playing pond hockey as a kid out on a little
lake like that growing up in Russia?

PAVEL BURE: It meant a lot for me to be around those guys. I felt like I was a part of
the hockey history when you see those legends like Wayne, Mario and Gordie. Just shooting
this -- I don't think it was just a commercial. It was something bigger. It was something
-- something that specific, a little movie would probably make history. It is like
changing generations and it meant a lot to me. Second question, yeah, we used to play with
my brother. We had frozen lake near our building and sometimes instead of going to school,
we would go play hockey.

Q. Could you talk about your mother being at the game today and how important it was,
how special it was for both of you to play in front of her and when is the last time you
did play in front of her?

PAVEL BURE: Well, usually she comes to North America a few times during the season,
comes to Calgary or goes to Montreal, Vancouver or Miami now. It was a special night for
us because my mom, our mom, just flew in for a few days for three, four days from Moscow.
It is a pretty long trip, but she came here and it just feels great to see your mom when
you are getting something special. I am really happy she could make it.

Q. What is your mother's name?

PAVEL BURE: Tattiana.

Q. When is the last time you guys skated on the same line?

VALERI BURE: I don't know. We played just a little bit at the Olympic Games. We didn't
really have a good shot at it. But that is the last time we probably were on the same ice
together. Before that I think it was at the Red Army Club, he was player for Red Army. I
was just getting to that level at 16 and we had a chance to play on the same team.

Q. Do you think the torch has been passed like you were saying? You were saying the
generation was switched, but do you think the torch has been passed to players like you
and Jagr?

PAVEL BURE: It is hard to talk about yourself, but I was around the great players like
Eric Lindros, Paul Kariya, Jagr, and those guys won MVP few times, they are leading the
League in points, and obviously they are really big superstars right now and that is the
guys who supposed to promote the game and be the leaders not just the clubs but the NHL.

Q. Yesterday Valeri said you might be playing together again if you were willing to
take a pay cut, would you be willing to take a sacrifice like that?

PAVEL BURE: Oh, yeah, definitely.

Q. One of the things you talked about, the other generations of hockey players. One of
the things those guys were known for; Gordie Howe, Wayne Gretzsky, was selling the hockey
game. Are you prepared as part of the next generation to make that sacrifice and really
sell the game of hockey?

PAVEL BURE: Well, first of all, I am not a businessman. In our days you have to kind of
mix business plus hockey. I don't think anybody did more things for hockey than Wayne. He
brought the hockey in the south of United States, to Calgary, to everywhere and he is
still great, and so I think it is going to be really hard to compare our generation to
guys like Wayne Gretzky.

Q. Pavel, last two years Florida Panthers had no players in this game. Today three
Florida Panthers had eight points together. Can you just talk about the statement that has
made for the Panthers? 

PAVEL BURE: Always nice to see your teammates doing so well. Roy Whitney was playing
really great. He got a goal, great setup. Kozlov was on our line, so he helped us a lot
too. So it was great.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT