AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES v MARINERS
October 20, 2001
Lou Piniella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Charlie Manuel agreed to come back for next year, and given all of his health problems and what you saw in the Division Series, are you happy to see him? 

LOU PINIELLA:   I am.  He went through a lot physically this year, and I feel he's a very good manager.  He led his team into the playoffs, and I'm real pleased that he's coming back to manage Cleveland next year.  He's a good man. 

Q.  What are the keys for your club to get a W today? 

LOU PINIELLA:   We need a good-pitched game from Jamie Moyer.  It starts with that. We need to play our usually good defense and we need to get some timely hitting into the mix. 

Q.  Sorry if this is a little bit similar; is there anything that you are going to have to do better than the first two games? 

LOU PINIELLA:   We have to take advantage of scoring opportunities better than we have.  Two good, close ballgames, and they got the big hit and we didn't.  But that can change. 

Q.  Your picture and name was in a lot of newspaper headlines today? 

LOU PINIELLA:   Yeah, I didn't think I would create that much of a stir.  (Laughter.)  I mean that sincerely.  I guess when you are a New Yorker, you can say those things.  You know, this city has got that feistiness about it, and it is good.  But, boy, when somebody else says it, it creates a commotion.  (Laughs).

Q.  Is that good or bad? 

LOU PINIELLA:   Well, I think it's entertaining, in a way, isn't it?  So let's view it that way.  (Laughter.)

Q.  You talk about you have to take advantage of scoring opportunities.  Is there any indication at least from what you can tell that the Yankee pitchers are following scouting reports that maybe the scouts picked up some things on your hitters that they are taking advantage of? 

LOU PINIELLA:   Well, they watched us all September.  They had hordes of them.  (Laughter.)  Following our team.  They would come in waves.  But they are well prepared and they have got good pitching over there, we know that.  But we have hit them during the season and hopefully one game, we start swinging the bats the way we are fully capable we'll carry on for a while.

Q.  What have you noticed about Bret Boone, his RBI opportunities have been limited; what have you seen from him at the plate?

LOU PINIELLA:   I think probably he's trying to do too much.  Just take what they give him and not try to hit four home runs in one at-bat.  Just relax, and do what he's done all year.  He's been a really good left-center, right-centerfield hitter and that's what he's got to go back to. 

Q.  Paul  Abbott has a much better record this season than he did last year.  Is there anything that you can point to that have helped him to be more successful? 

LOU PINIELLA:   Well, he's more experienced.  He's older, but he had injuries early in his career.  He's pitched now at this level with us the past three or four years and he's come into his own as a good Major League starter.  He's got a real good changeup and when he's commanding his fastball, he can be awfully, awfully tough.  For the most part this year, he's pitched very well.  I've got all the confidence he'll go out there tomorrow and give us a chance to win.

Q.  Have you talked to your troops yet? 

LOU PINIELLA:   I had a little talk with them at two o'clock.  I don't really like meetings, per se, and I told them that.  I don't think players like meetings either, but I just had a few things to say.  It took a couple minutes.

Q.  What do you remember about Paul O'Neill from when you managed him in Cincinnati? 

LOU PINIELLA:   He reminded me a lot of myself when I was a player.  (Laughter.)

Q.  In terms of what? (Laughter.)

LOU PINIELLA:   I don't think I have to answer that.  But I tell you what, he's had a great career.  He won a world championship over there with us in Cincinnati, and he's come over here and put some marvelous years together for the Yankees and helped them win four world championships.  I'm proud of him.  I really am.  Paul at times probably thinks I don't like him, but I have a tremendous amount of like for him, and also respect.  He competes.  But he does remind me of myself a little bit when I played.  (Smiles).  He had more ability.  (Laughter.)

Q.  You guys did really well during the regular season, of course.  Are you surprised that you have struggled so much and had so much difficulty during the playoffs? 

LOU PINIELLA:   Well, let me tell you, when you get into the playoffs, the season starts anew.  And you've got eight teams in a Round Robin, they are all capable of winning, they all have their strengths, and usually, pitching among them and you are only going to be facing the better pitchers on the staff; the games are competitive, so it makes it much harder.  When you look at a team like the Yankees, they have got four guys over there that you can classify at legit 1 or 2 starters, and then they have got a bonafide closer in Rivera.  So you are not going to score as many runs, so when you do get opportunities, you have got to take advantage, of them, and that's what we have to do in this series in New York.

Q.  Is there anything that you can share with us, what you said to your team a little while ago? 

LOU PINIELLA:   Not really.  Not really.  But it was not lot long in juncture.  I don't really believe in meetings all that much.  This is the first one I've had since Opening Day, but I just wanted to say a couple of things. 

Q.  You mentioned your experience in 1981 when you had a 2-0 World Series lead  --

LOU PINIELLA:   One game can turn it around, very quickly.  You go out and you swing the bats the way you are fully capable of and all of a sudden it becomes a contagious thing and it can carry through the rest of the playoffs, and that's what we are certainly hoping to do.  But pitching and hitting, they are contagious.  You get one really good pitched game and all of the sudden slugging with your pitching and start falling in a place with it.  Same thing with your hitting. 

Q.  Were you a part of a couple of series that went 2-0 one way and four in a row the other way? 

LOU PINIELLA:   Yeah, I was part of one  -- I was part of two of them here in New York. 

Q.  Late 70s?

LOU PINIELLA:   Yeah, I think probably the 78 series we lost two in a row and won four.  And then in 19 eight or eight one, we won the first two and lost four in a row, so believe me, it can happen. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT