AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v MARINERS
October 12, 2001
Lou Piniella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You're facing a pitcher tomorrow you have not gone against all year.  What concerns do you have? 

LOU PINIELLA:   We don't have any concerns.  We were looking at his tape for the past half hour, 45 minutes just so our hitters could get familiar with him as far as possible.  But we know he's got good stuff.  He's got a good arm and he's had a very successful year, 17-5; that speaks for itself.  So, we've got a challenge tomorrow against him.

Q.  How much of a difference does it make facing somebody your team has never faced? 

LOU PINIELLA:   I don't know.  He hasn't faced us, either.  So, I would think the pitcher has a little bit of an advantage, though. 

Q.  Number of the players we talked with were commenting on the shadows in Seattle; how much of a factor do you think that was? 

LOU PINIELLA:   Well, you know, Colon threw the ball very, very well.  Shadows or no shadows.  Moyer, with the offspeed pitches kept their hitters off timing.  But at the same time, it's important to see the ball as well as possible to be able to hit it.  So it probably had some effect on the hitters.  

Q.  You talked down the stretch about wanting to get Aaron on a roll going into the post-season; where is he on that continuum? 

LOU PINIELLA:   His last start was so-so.  But prior to that, I thought he pitched exceedingly well.  Good, crisp fastball to both sides of the plate.   Used his changeup to keep hitters honest, and at the same time, had a really good curveball.  But I expect Aaron to go out there and pitch well for us.  He competes very well and he's got the experience. 

Q.  How different of a game is it playing here in Jacobs field, as opposed to SAFECO field?

LOU PINIELLA:   It's a different game.  This park here is a little more conducive to power.  But at the same time, we hit three home runs yesterday that scored all of our runs via the home run ball.  But this is a good hitters ballpark.  The background is good.  If the wind is not blowing in, the ball carries very well here.

Q.  How loose were you  --

LOU PINIELLA:   We were loose.  We're going to be loose throughout this thing.  That's not a concern at all.  But getting the crowd into the game, with 48,000 people in Seattle, was important.  Scoring those four runs definitely got the crowd in the ballgame there after the first inning, and it really helps the home team. 

Q.  Who is going to be in left field tomorrow? 

LOU PINIELLA:   Jay is going to start in left field.  We might hit him fifth in the lineup, I'm not sure, and move Olerud to the sixth spot. 

Q.  With all of your post-season experience as a manager, how much has that helped you to set your roster and how does that play into your philosophy in the post-season?

LOU PINIELLA:   We didn't have many options as far as our roster was concerned  -- I'm talking about the 14.  The pitching we did have some decisions to make and we decided to keep Halama as a long lefty, as opposed to Pineiro or Franklin.  That was the biggest decision we had to make.  But once we lost Guillen, it dictated we keep a backup infielder in Vazquez, and really, outside of that, there weren't many decisions to be made.  We didn't call up that many people in September, so that decision wasn't tough. 

Q.  You said you watched tape of Sabathia; what did you see?

LOU PINIELLA:   He's got a good changeup and he's got a real nice breaking ball.  You've just got to lay off of it.   He throws the ball  -- I saw where he throws a lot of the balls out of the strike zone with it, and obviously, if you lay off of it, much the better.  He's a good pitcher.

Q.  Since the series has started, we've seen the A's take two in New York.  We've seen the other two series split, as well as Atlanta taking two from Houston; just how important is the home-field advantage?

LOU PINIELLA:   When you get to this caliber of baseball, the top eight teams, you've had success on the road.  So I think it negates the advantage somewhat.  You know, we've been a real good road team.  I think we won 59 games on the road.  You look at Cleveland's record, they can win on the road.  You don't get to this point if you're really, really struggling on the road.  It's not as much of an advantage as you would think. 

Q.  There was an interview with Hershiser where he thought the five-game series was much more nerve-wracking than a 7-game series? 

LOU PINIELLA:   A little more urgency, as far as winning ballgames early in the series.  I said that a five-game series, there's really very little margin for error, and that's really the case.  Tomorrow's game is a very pivotal game for both sides.  That third game is an important one.  So whoever wins this ballgame tomorrow certainly has a distinct advantage.

Q.  You've had really, really good series with Cleveland a few years back in the ALCS  --

LOU PINIELLA:   That was in '95. 

Q.  And your team, since you've been in Seattle has played in some very hotly contested games both here and there, is there something about  -- and your team played well here  --

LOU PINIELLA:   It's two good ballclubs, and then the competition level rises, the adrenaline rises.  You tend to play good baseball against good teams.  For a while, Cleveland held the upper hand as far as the rivalry was concerned, but it's evened out a heck of a lot more here over the past few years.

Q.  You've played the Indians nine times now, less than you've played most other teams this year.  Have you learned anything about them?

LOU PINIELLA:   We knew they were a good ballclub coming in, their experience, they have been to this type of situation many times before and they are not going to rattle.  We knew that Cleveland was a good club coming in, and we still feel the same way.  Hopefully tomorrow we'll get a good game from Sele and we'll score some runs and get the edge on this series. 

Q.  Referring to C.C., when you have not seen a pitcher all season long, is it easier to face a hard thrower or is it difficult when you have not seen him  --

LOU PINIELLA:   Depends on whether you are a fastball hitter or an offspeed hitter.  If you have a lot of good fastball hitters, it's probably easier to face a fastball pitcher, and if you don't, then the reverse is the case.  But, yeah, you've still got to make the pitcher throw the ball over the plate.  That's important.  You've got to get good pitches to hit, and when you get your pitch, you can't foul it off.  You've got to hit it hard. 

Q.  Part of that, because Jay Buhner is a good fastball-hitting guy, does that go into your decision?

LOU PINIELLA:   Actually he's a real good offspeed hitter.  He can hit the fastball, but why give a scouting report here, right?  (Laughter.)

Q.  It may be ancient history, but back in 1954, when the Indians went for the American League record in wins and then got swept  --

LOU PINIELLA:   That was the first time my parents bought a TV, I was a big fan of this team.  We rested our team about as well as we possibly could the whole month of September.  Actually we started to rest our team around the mid-season.  We left a regular out of the lineup every day.  In September, we played different variations of lineups.  About the only guy that I didn't rest as well as I probably could have was Boony and he wanted to go for the RBI title and we gave him that opportunity and he did win the RBI title.  But outside of that, our club is pretty well rested.  We rested our team about as well as we could.

Q.  But mentally? 

LOU PINIELLA:   Well, the mental aspect of it, I don't know.  You've got to stay sharp.  You've got to stay focused.  We've got a veteran ballclub in a lot of ways, the same way that Cleveland does.  It's easy to say you are going to turn it on, but it's not as easy to do.  Obviously, for an older ballclub or a more experienced ballclub, the chore is a little easier.  But, you know we got ourselves in position.  We were not trying to win 116 games or whatever the number was.  But we got ourselves in position in the Anaheim series where we won two in a row and got it to 113, and we were that close, so we said, "Let's take a shot at it." But at the same time, we had rookies playing.  We had two pitchers that started ballgames that were not with us the whole year.  We played two or three players from our AAA roster every day.  Again the only guy that I really didn't get out of there was our second baseman, and the rest of the ballclub, if you look at our lineups, everybody played, and we rested people on an every-night occurrence.  The problem here is  -- not the problem, but, you know, we are really into the second week of playoffs now.  This is October 9th, 10th; it's a long season.  It starts back in the middle of February.  This thing is going to end probably, what, around the 1st of November, whoever gets that far.  It's a long baseball season. 

Q.  Can you talk about what Mike Cameron in the second slot brings you?

LOU PINIELLA:   Well, we've hit  -- against left-handed pitching all year we've basically hit our shortstop, Carlos Guillen in the second hole and hit Mike fifth or sixth.  Mike gives us speed and he gives us power.  I like him both second and sixth, or fifth, against left-handed pitching.  What you guys will have fun with is Sunday's game with Colon when we bring our lineup out.  I'll have a lot of questions to answer then.  (Smiles).

Q.  I was just curious what it is about the makeup of your team that you won so consistently on the road? 

LOU PINIELLA:   Well, remember, we rely on solid pitching and good defense, and you can take that anywhere and hang your hat with it.   At the same time, the road parks, or the parks on the road, are a little more conducive to a little more power, and we can still run, we can still do the things that we do at home, but it adds a little more power to the ingredients of our lineup and I think that's why.  It starts with good pitching and good defense.  That, you can take anywhere.  So when you look at our baseball team, we've got to pitch and catch.  If we pitch and catch, we've got a chance to win a ballgame. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT