AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v MARINERS
October 9, 2001
Lou Piniella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Lou, do you think your hitters were more impatient?
 
LOU PINIELLA:  I don't think so.  I think they threw the ball pretty well.  They struck out 12 of our hitters.  We didn't really create too many opportunities to score runs. 
 
Q.  You came out and talked to the umpires between innings, do you think he was squeezing the pitcher?
 
LOU PINIELLA:  We just talked about a few things.  But I thought the umpires did a good job.  The umpiring had nothing to do with the outcome.  Give their pitchers credit.  12 K's out of 27 outs, what is there to complain about? 
 
Q.  Ichiro's first appearance --
 
LOU PINIELLA:  Not bad.  He started off with a solid shot to right field and added a double and a single.  He was on base, just didn't do -- we didn't do much.  Look, Colon is very capable of pitching a good ballgame, and that's exactly what he did. 
 
Q.  Such a short series, do you need to tell your guys anything after a loss like that, or do you expect --
 
LOU PINIELLA:  Tell them we better win three  out of four. 
 
Q.  Have you had a ballgame that was as important as Game 2 of this series all year?
 
LOU PINIELLA:  I don't think that -- I don't think that we've had, no, but -- we'll be ready to play Thursday.  We came back from losing the opening game of series' all year and did well.  So I have the utmost confidence that we'll bounce back on Thursday. 
 
Q.  Do you think it was that this is a really good team that you're playing?
 
LOU PINIELLA:  I said that coming in. They're playoff tested and they're a good ballclub.  I knew that coming in. 
 
Q.  Did Freddy lose his poise?
 
LOU PINIELLA:  I'm not sure he lost his poise.  They hit the ball hard off of him.  Burks hit a double down the leftfield line, with 2 outs in the 2nd inning.  And then he really hit the ball on Paniagua well, in, I don't know what inning it was, but the ball was hit in the upper deck.  But off of Freddy, one inning where they scored the three runs, they hit some jam shots.  They all count.  And then the other inning where they scored the final run, there were three singles.  Alomar hit a good ball to centerfield, to start the inning off.  But the rest of the balls  weren't hit that hard.  I'm not complaining, base hits are base hits.  But I don't think they really hit Freddy that hard. 
 
Q.  How is his leg?
 
LOU PINIELLA:  I think he's fine, yeah.  It hit him above the foot.  But he's fine. 
 
Q.  Lou, was Edgar running on his own there?
 
LOU PINIELLA:  Edgar was on his own.  If you would have told me we were going to steal one base today and Edgar was the guy -- yeah, that was a good play.  You know what, hopefully it will make them hold Edgar on, and create a hole for Olerud.  If not, maybe Edgar can steal a couple more bases this series. 
 
Q.  What does it say about Colon's stuff, Olerud strikes out three times?
 
LOU PINIELLA:  Olerud usually puts the ball in play.  Colon was throwing the ball well, good velocity the whole game, quick to the plate.  At the same time, he didn't walk many hitters.  That's a pretty good combination. 
 
Q.  There hasn't been a sense of urgency all season, is it kind of strange to be in that --
 
LOU PINIELLA:  There's no sense of urgency. We lost a ballgame.  I don't see any sense of urgency. We'll come out and play as well as we can on Thursday,  and that's all we can do. 
 
Q.  How important was it that Colon was ahead of almost every one of the baters?
 
LOU PINIELLA:  His performance speaks for itself.  We didn't do much against him and he was, he was ahead of our hitters, and struck out ten in 8 innings, that's pretty impressive. 
 
Q.  Talk about the matchup Thursday, the pitching matchup.
 
LOU PINIELLA:  Finley against Moyer.  Moyer has pitched very well for us the second half of the season, and he won 20 ballgames.  And Finley is a veteran pitcher that's been through these type of things before.  And it should be a good matchup on both sides. 
 
Q.  How much did not having an --
 
LOU PINIELLA:  You know what, we don't have some people that, you know, that have done a good job for us.  But we've got no excuses.  We either win or we don't.  We're not going to make any excuses about the whole thing. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT