AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARINERS v YANKEES
October 14, 2000
Lou Piniella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Is this as dominating a championship game as you've ever seen or been a part of?
 
LOU PINIELLA:   He pitched well.  Give him credit.  
 
Q.  What do you think about Roger's approach early to Alex tonight, setting a precedent? 
 
LOU PINIELLA:   If he wants his hitters to get thrown at, that's fine with me.  That's exactly what will happen.  That's exactly what happened tonight, and that will be exactly what happens the next time he faces our ballclub.  He wants to throw at our guys, we'll throw at his guys, period.  
 
Q.  Was Alex stepping out in the seventh something that you have discussed? 
 
LOU PINIELLA:   No, not at all.  I don't know why he stepped out.  That's something that  -- certainly wasn't planned. 
 
Q.  After Abbott did retaliate, the TV shows you screaming towards  --?
 
LOU PINIELLA:   That's right, I was.  I was just  -- they were looking at our dugout like we did something wrong, and I was just trying to let them know that we're going to protect our hitters, period. 
 
Q.  Was it directed at a particular person?
 
LOU PINIELLA:   No, it wasn't directed at anybody.  It was just directed at their ballclub.  Their pitchers want to throw at our hitters, we will throw at their hitters, period. 
 
Q.  Do you think what he did earlier in the game had any impact on your hitters? 
 
LOU PINIELLA:   I don't think so.  He pitched a good ballgame.  Give the guy credit.  He can pitch. 
 
Q.  You said in games that Roger pitches you don't think it will carry over to tomorrow.
 
LOU PINIELLA:   We're going to come out and play ball.  We've done that the whole series, and so far we've been beat up pretty good.  But we're certainly not going to be out there letting their hitters intimidate our guys and not retaliating; that's not going to happen. 
 
Q.  Did Hirschbeck say anything to you guys after the exchange? 
 
LOU PINIELLA:   Nothing was said.  He didn't say anything to us, no.  
 
Q.  How did you know Abbott was hurt? 
 
LOU PINIELLA:   He couldn't get his shoulder loose, and he kept, you know, playing around with his arm.  Quite frankly, just couldn't get loose.  The pitching coach went out there with the trainer and said that his shoulder was really getting stiff. 
 
Q.  But Abbott didn't say anything  --?
 
LOU PINIELLA:   He was shaking.  
 
Q.  Has Clemens made a living by knocking down hitters and throwing at them for years?
 
LOU PINIELLA:   He's made a pretty good reputation for himself that way, I can tell you that. 
 
Q.  Abbott seemed to be complaining as he was being taken out, it looked like he didn't want to go.
 
LOU PINIELLA:   Not really.  I think he wanted to stay in there because of the adrenaline, but truthfully, his shoulder was really stiff. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT