AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 6, 2000
Lou Piniella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Would you give the line-up today?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: I've got Ibanez in left field and Javier in right, and Oliver catching.
And the rest of the line-up is basically the same.  
 
Q. How about the order?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: We've got Cameron leading off, Ibanez is hitting second, Rodriguez,
Martinez, Olerud, Javier, Bell, Oliver, and McLemore. 
 
Q. Is Rickey available?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: Yes. 
 
Q. Is there any concern about overconfidence, or is that not an issue?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: No, I don't think so. We'll go out and play hard today, and hopefully
things will go our way. But there's no overconfidence here. 
 
Q. Could you talk about the decision to start Raul? Did you like the way he was
swinging the bat?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: He's been hitting the ball well here the past few weeks, and we put him
in there. He's gotten some big hits for us. 
 
Q. Game 1, they talked about the play where he made the throw off the seat of the
pants, and he said that it was reflective of --?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: What we've done here so far, and hopefully we'll do more, is reflective
of how they played on the field. These players deserve all the credit, they're very
professional. They've had a purpose in mind since the season started. And we've got
veteran players here that know how to play, and they love to win, and they perform that
way on the field. He stays in the background and makes some moves when necessary, and
stays out of their way; lets them play. And that's what we've done all year, and that's
what we'll continue to do. 
 
Q. Do you think that this team has the killer instinct to be able to put the Sox away?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: Well, we've had instinct all year to get to where we are now, and I don't
think we're going to back off. The White Sox will have something to say about that
naturally. But I'm very confident in my team's ability. 
 
Q. Lou, could you talk about Jamie Moyer's health and his availability for the next
series?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: Jamie is in our bullpen right now. We're going to pitch Halama tomorrow,
if we need him, hopefully, we won't. Because we know that he's ready to go for sure, but
we've got Jamie in the bullpen. And if we go to the next level, certainly he would be one
of the guys that -- one of the pitchers that we would pitch. 
 
Q. I don't know if you know it, Jerry Manuel shaved his beard to change their luck.
Have you done anything like that?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: They made some changes in their line-up, too (laughter.) I don't know if
beards have anything to do with it. Let's hope they don't.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT