AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 3, 2000
Lou Piniella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Lou, first of all, how are you doing today?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: Good, and you? 
 
Q. Good, I'm okay. You've had some success, at least the last trip you won three out of
four including a double-header which is a very rare feat. What does that mean in the
post-season, nothing or something?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: Well, it gives you confidence that you can come in to Chicago and win.
But this is almost a brand new season, so to speak, so... We've played well on the road.
We won the wildcard, got all four we needed on the road. So we feel that we can go into
opposing team's ballpark and play ball and win ball games. From that standpoint it's
important.  
 
Q. Can you talk about what went into your decision in choosing Abbott for Game 2?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: Well, first of all, Paul's been in our rotation for about three-quarters
of the season. He's done a very respectable job. Truthfully, we didn't have many choices.
But at the same time, we have all the confidence in the world that Paul can go out there
and pitch a good ball game for us. He's had some games this year where he's really been
dominating. We're hoping that tomorrow he gives more of the same. But, remember, Sele
pitched on Sunday, Halama pitched on Saturday, Moyer, he'll be available either out of our
bullpen tomorrow or ready for this weekend. So Paul was the obvious choice, and we're very
comfortable with it.  
 
Q. Can you talk about your post-season roster, what changes you had to make, if any?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: That's always a problem for a ballclub, to put together 25 players. It's
always a bigger problem for the manager, because he's the one that's got to inform the
people. We would have loved to have 30 players for this playoff, and I'm sure that Jerry
Manuel will tell you the same thing over there in Chicago, but unfortunately you got to go
with 25. Our original plans were to go with 10 pitchers and 15 regulars, but that didn't
materialize because the fact that we were extended till the last day of the season. Also,
Halama pitched on Saturday. Jamie had a throw day yesterday, where he wouldn't be
available. And if for some reason this game here goes extra innings, we didn't want to be
short pitching-wise. So that's how we came up with the eleven pitchers. I would have loved
the flexibility of having another player on our roster, but our bullpen, outside of Tomko,
is all short and if we had to eat up innings, we didn't want to be short coming right out
of the box. So we went with the eleven pitchers, and we went with the -- I'm sorry, 11
pitchers and 14 regular format. And the White Sox basically did the same thing. But I
think our preference all along would have been 15 and 10. It just didn't materialize. Now
we could change that. If we're fortunate enough to win here against the White Sox in this
series, we can change that for the next playoffs go-around.  
 
Q. Paul Abbott mentioned he was going to feed off of what Garcia does today because
they're two similar pitchers. That's not an ideal situation, is it, to have two similar
pitches on back-to-back days. 
 
 LOU PINIELLA: Well, they're similar in a way but really they're not. They have --
Garcia throws a little harder. He's got a curveball, changeup. Abbott's got the slider and
the changeup. Again, we didn't have too many choices, and even if we, I'm not saying that
we wouldn't go the way that we're going. They've gotten us here, and we feel very
comfortable with both of them. I don't think they're as similar as what you would think.
Garcia's fastball has more of a sinking motion to it than Abbott's. So we've got two
right-handers going, I think against a line-up that the White Sox throw out there, I think
right-handed pitching can get the job done and that's the way we're going.  
 
Q. What causes a team to be successful on the road, as yours has been? And has this
team had that component that other teams that you've had that won on the road have had?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: We have a veteran ballclub. I think veteran ballclubs, with the
experience that they bring to the party, have a much better chance of winning on the road
than younger teams. At the same time, you look at our situation from an offensive
standpoint. We are No. 1 on the road in road batting average, and at home we're dead last
at home batting average. How you explain that, I have no idea. But we seemed, especially
since mid-season, to play much better on the road and put up more offensive numbers on the
road. That's one of the reasons that we've been able to win. I think we won, what, nine
out of ten last road games? And we've played very good. I think the experience of the
ballclub has more to say with it than anything else.  
 
Q. What were your toughest choices making out your roster, post-season roster, and
particularly the pitching?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: You know what? They were all tough because, truthfully, you don't want to
exclude anybody from this type of environment or situation. They've all had -- they've all
contributed and at the same time you don't want to exclude anybody. It's difficult on me
because I have a lot of feelings for my players. At the same time, with the pitching,
Pineiro's pitched well against this ballclub; he started here this summer and pitched very
well. Plus, he was a long righty. At the same time, Ramsay with Rhodes, Halama and Moyer,
we didn't feel we needed four lefties. Although Ramsay's done a nice job for us. So we
went more with the right-handed pitching, knowing that we couldn't start both Moyer and
Halama in the series, we're gonna have two left-handers in the bullpen at all times
anyway. And that was the general thinking as far as how we put our pitching together for
this series.  
 
Q. What was your toughest question making out your line-up today?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: We really didn't have any. I had to make a choice between Oliver and
Wilson catching. We've gone back and forth with that all year. And basically, this is the
line-up that has played for the most part of the season, although we've had to mix and
match, as you all know. But I feel very comfortable with the line-up we're running out
there. We've got some good left-handed hitting on our bench in case we need it. Our
line-up is experienced. This is a line-up we all felt very comfortable with.  
 
Q. Your first series in here you lost, second series in here you won three out of four.
On the road, you were not really a good team the first two months of the season. What
changed?
 
 LOU PINIELLA: The managing got better. (Laughter.) No, I don't know. I really don't
know. We were basically about a .500 or slightly below team for the first half of the
season. And the last three or four road trips that we went on we started to play much
better. And, you know, confidence plays such a big part in the equation. When you start
winning on the road, we went to Boston in early September and split with them there,
although we won the last two out of three, and then we went to Toronto, played well there.
Then we went on that road trip to Baltimore and Tampa Bay and played very well there and
finished it up in Anaheim. It's been a steady progression. I think that to win a division
or to get into a wildcard you need to play well on the road, you need to be above .500 on
the road. I think we're what, seven over or eight over? What's our road record? Seven,
eight, I'm not sure. Whatever the number was, it was good enough. But, you know, 81 games
on the road and 81 are at home. The amazing thing is that we probably played better on the
road the last, what, 45 days or so of the season than our home record. Our home record, at
one time, was much better than our road record and it sort of started to come together.
But you got to win on the road to get to this -- White Sox won on the road. You look at
most of the teams that are the vast majority of the teams that are in the state team Round
Robin and their road records are all good.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT