NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Dominique Wilkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is it encouraging to see the star players?  
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   Yeah, I like to see the star players get in it.   It's very encouraging.   
And Paul George is an emerging superstar in this league, so it's nice that he's taking the opportunity to get in this contest.   
   
 Q.   If you were putting together a three‑on‑three team to play for a million dollars and you were on that team, who would you pick today and who would you pick in the past?  
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   Wow, that's a really good question.   You could flip a coin between Kobe, LeBron, Kevin Durant, Carmelo.   You can flip a coin.   And then the same thing from the past.   
So that's really a hard question, because it was so many great players of that era‑‑ Bird, Magic, Moses.   There's too many.   So it's really kind of an unfair question to ask.   
You can flip a coin in each era and you wouldn't go wrong.   There's a lot of good players back then.   
   
 Q.   You were out of the league before Pete Maravich came into the league, right?  
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   Yeah.   Pete Maravich had me ready for the NBA.   He used to train with me in the offseason before I came out of college.   He used to come down to the University of Georgia and we had workouts together.   So he kind of took me under his wing when I was in college.   
So when I came to the NBA, I was ready.   Pete and I were very close friends.  
   
 Q.   What was he like?  
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   He was a great guy.   He was a super guy.   You talk about a wealth of basketball knowledge.   That was Pete Maravich.   
   
 Q.   So what did you do in the summer?  
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   Ball handling drills, shooting drills.   He just took an interest in me.   
But he lived in Atlanta at the time, so‑‑ but he took a major interest in me.   And he said, look, let's work out together.   And I'm like, wow, Pete Maravich.   What am I going to do, say no?   
   
 Q.   When he started doing those ball handling drills, were you like, come on, really?  
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   He was before his time.   I don't know if you will ever see a ball handler like that ever.   He was incredible.   
   
 Q.   Did you ever see him play live?  
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   Oh, yeah.   I was a big fan of Pete, from college to the NBA.   And people don't realize how big Pete was playing the guard position.   He was a big guy.   He was 6'6", 6'7", playing the guard in those days.  
   
 Q.   He influenced a lot of guys.   
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   Well, he influenced me.   If you were a guy who loved basketball, if were you a basketball enthusiast, you had to like Pete.   You had to love him.   I mean, they only made one of him.   
   
 Q.   Did he call you, or how did that work out?  
DOMINIQUE WILKINS:   He was a former Hawk, so he's in the Hawk family.   But he lived in Atlanta, I lived in Atlanta and I was going to the University of Georgia.   He knew my head coach.   So that's how the connection happened.   He was a great guy.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT