US OPEN
September 2, 2001
Ashley Harkleroad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions please. 
 
 
Q.  How do you feel about today's game?
 
ASHLEY HARKLEROAD: I was a bit nervous coming into this match because I played the main draw here.  I played the main drew singles, doubles, and mixed doubles and I played well in the singles and the mixed doubles.  But I didn't win a match.  So I mean, my confidence wasn't extremely high, but this is a different level against juniors, so I knew that I was going to be -- when I played Meilen I wasn't getting many breaks.  It is a little bit of a different level so I noticed that out there today and I finally relaxed after the first set and I started playing well.  
 
Q.  It is a big comedown to have to go back to the girl's draw after, like you said, having played the main draw in three events?
 
ASHLEY HARKLEROAD: It is kind of  -- you are a little more nervous because everybody expects you to come in here and win the tournament, but these girls are just like the pro girls, but just -- they just can't play it because their ranking is not yet high enough but it will be.  But I was just a little bit more nervous because everybody expects you to do so well.  A lot of girls that are not seeded tend to tighten up and not play what they are capable of playing I know that's what I could do so just focus on hitting the ball just having fun and going out there and playing my best. 
 
Q.  Like you said did you almost need this to sort of get your confidence built back up a little?
 
ASHLEY HARKLEROAD: It's not like I had low confidence at all.  Before the US Open I played a 50,000 and I beat girls who were like inside 100.  I had a lot of confidence from that.  I got to the quarters.  But it's just kind of annoying whenever you have a lot of breaks and you don't get them, then you know you have to come back down to the juniors.  Everybody expects you to do so well.  
 
Q.  Do you feel you can compete in the main draw?
 
ASHLEY HARKLEROAD: Yeah, I do feel like I can compete with the main draw.  I lost to Meilen, she's 40 in the world, I lost in three sets.  Third set, I had game points first three games.  I should have been up 30 instead of down 30.  That's where I am still transitioning, still making a transition into the pros and I need to learn how to play those big points more efficiently.  I will learn it.  Then I think that I do belong in the main draw. 
 
Q.  Why have you continued to play so many ITF junior events since you have turned pro?
 
ASHLEY HARKLEROAD: Actually I don't play that many.  Considering all the other girls there, if I would play as many as them, I would be, you know, I am 5 in the world now.  I would probably be 2 or 3, but I don't   -- I just play the main ones because I am restricted to how many pro tournaments I can play because of my age, I can only play 10.  I don't just want to just sit around and practice the whole time.  I need to get match play, so that's why I play these. 
 
Q.  How will you look back on the US Open experience?
 
ASHLEY HARKLEROAD: I think it was a good experience for me because if I can take that match against Meilen and learn from it which I think that I have, then it's a really good experience.  But if I don't learn from it then what is the point?  But I think I have learned from it.  I am trying to think about some of the mistakes that I made against Meilen and make sure I don't do it against Anne today. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT