AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2004
Ashley Harkleroad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions.


Q.  Did you want to tell us about today's match?

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  I didn't think that I played up to my potential, really.  I was, you know, a bit nervous.  It was my first time, you know, on Rod Laver.  You know, my first time to play her.  I wasn't sure how she was gonna play, but I felt like she played really well, and I didn't really take -- I wasn't really as aggressive as I wish I could have been.  I let her pretty much take over the points. 

Q.  How intimidating is it, just that reputation and the aura that the Williams sisters have, even when they haven't played for a while?

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  You know, I thought when I went out there that maybe since she hasn't played since Wimbledon, she's going to be a little rusty.  But she really wasn't.  I didn't really get a good rhythm out there with her; either it's a winner or miss or something like that.  I felt she played really well considering that she hasn't played a match in a long time.  You know, they are a little intimidating because they're big and they're the Williams sisters.  I really wasn't intimidated.  I think I was just a little overpowered and I wasn't being aggressive like I could have been.

Q.  Still a valuable experience, I guess?

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  Yeah, it's a good experience because now I can learn what I need to work on a little bit.

Q.  I assume that the surroundings of walking on to Rod Laver is a good experience to go through? 

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  Yeah, you know, learning how to play in that atmosphere, I mean, it's good.  I'm only 18 years old, so hopefully I have a lot of times to be out there.  You know, was kind of not a very good draw here for me but I've had a pretty good year starting out, in the finals a week before this.  It's been okay.  It's just a good learning experience for me to learn what I need to work on to beat players like that, or to be a little bit better. 

Q.  Can you give us a little idea of what things you think you need to work on. 

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  Well, I think I need to learn, you know, more to be -- more aggressive when you play a player like Venus, when she's hitting the ball so deep and, you know, she's very powerful, and just learning how to turn it around and maybe get myself on the offensive instead of always be on the defensive. 

Q.  You've got a nice big ring on your finger there.  Can you tell us about that. 

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  That's kind of personal, but, you know (smiling).  You know, I'm happy.  That's it.  Very happy (smiling). 

Q.  Do you at all feel that you're kind of young, both you and Kim and Lleyton just got engaged, and you guys, all four of you are kind of young? 

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  I think I'm maybe the youngest (smiling).  Yeah, I think that I'm pretty young.  I mean, so is she.  But, you know, we have a little bit of different lives, and, you know, we have to grow up quick on the tour especially, and when you're happy and, you know - I don't know.  I can only say what I feel, and I'm very happy right now.

Q.  Is it kind of hard, because you guys have similar jobs but your jobs often take you to different places as opposed to like young couples would normally be living in the same place. 

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  Right.

Q.  How is that to deal with?

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  It's nice because when he's here and I'm here, I can see him.  Probably, I'd be able to see him more than if I was dating just a normal person because he does play tennis, too, and he travels and, you know, there's a lot of similar tournaments, and we both live in Miami.  So, you know, I think I see him more than if I was just dating somebody normal. 

Q.  Did you guys kind of just start as a friendship a while back?  When did you start dating?

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  When I was 12 years old, we were friends up until --

Q.  But you weren't dating back then?

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  No, no (smiling).  But I've known him since I was 12 years old.  He's my best friend, too, so...

Q.  When did it kind of change?

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  Maybe a couple years ago, off and on. 

Q.  Do you sort of leave the roles defined, like coach, does he ever get involved in any of that with your game?

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  Sometimes.  But if he comes home with me to see my family, we'll practice and he'll help me.  But, you know, more just hitting around and keeping my confidence high, you know, telling me that everything looks great or whatever.  I mean, he's very honest, but, you know, he'll help me if he sees something.  But I have my own coach, so...

Q.  Did you watch him today?

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  I tried to watch a little bit of him but I think we both kind of had very difficult draws here.  And, you know, I felt like he played pretty well.  In the third, maybe not so well.  But other than that, I think we both can see what we need to work on.

Q.  Not asking for a specific date, but do you think you'll have a long engagement?

ASHLEY HARKLEROAD:  Probably long because I'm young still.  We don't even really talk about it, when it will happen, because I'm only 18 still.  I don't think my father would be too happy if it was soon (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT