BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 8, 2016
Samantha Crawford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. AZARENKA/S. Crawford   
6-0, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You were able to get closer by the end.  I guess what were your feelings at the beginning, before you walked on, and how were you able to sort of pull it together?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: I think the first set I was really nervous, and after the first set I was like, Okay, it was 6-0.  Can't get any worse.  Just go for it.   
I started playing better.  I started a little late, but it's okay.  Yeah, I think I like got more comfortable, more and more comfortable towards the end.   
 Q.  Something about this round?  Following Federer om court or being in a semifinal or someone that has won Grand Slams, something in this round felt different in terms of nerves for you?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I think being at night I had more time to think about it.  Like the whole day.   
So I was like, Okay, this is cool.  Then I got to the site and I was like, I'm playing and I'm following Federer.  Okay.  The casual, like -- yeah, felt a little different.   
 Q.  Can you walk us through your day a little bit?  What did you do this morning?  What time did you get to the site and all that sort of stuff?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I slept in until like 11:00, and went and got my breakfast, which was an a acai bowl again.   
Yeah, I didn't feel like I needed to hit in the morning because I've already played so much.  I think I would've been just like tired.  So I just kind of chilled and took a nap.  I got to the site at like 5:30 maybe, and then hit at 7:00, and then was just chilling, waiting.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Are you used to making all of those sorts of decisions by yourself?  Normally you have a hitting partner, coach, somebody with you at tournaments helping you plan your day.  You've been solo here.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: He, I texted Michael and I was like, What time should I hit today?  I don't think I've ever been not before 9:00.  He was like, Take a nap.  He knows I love to take naps, too.  Then hit at 7:00.   
Yeah, I mean, I felt like awake and stuff, so I think it was good.   
 Q.  Do you think your mom was able to watch this match on TV?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I think I so.  I think, yeah, they were a little like grumpy that I was at like 6:00 a.m. there, but, yeah, they were up.   
 Q.  So they normally watch you play every match if it was on TV?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, every match they can.  If there is a live stream and everything and they're not home they'll watch it later.  If they're not able to watch it I think they're always looking at scores and stuff.   
 Q.  Has she told you about you're probably going to get some attention from China?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, my cousin I think saw your article and called her.   
 Q.  Oh, really?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.   
 Q.  Is she excited about it?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, my cousin saw it and called my mom and my mom was like, Is everything okay?  She said she saw your article.  My cousin's friend saw it I think and then told her.   
Then I messed up my name, too.  It's Dai Lian.  It was hard for me, too.  My mom had to explain it.  Like she read the article and she said, Yeah, you did really well, but like got your name wrong.  You said like fish instead of like...   
I was like, Okay, cool.   
 Q.  What will be your favorite memory of this week?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: I don't know.  I think just making the semis and getting through quallies and getting some big wins.  I think it's all pretty special and the first time I've done a lot of things.  Yeah, I'll remember everything.   
 Q.  Are your hopes higher for Melbourne after all this?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I think I don't want to like put too much pressure on myself.  Just want to like keep doing the right things and keep preparing well and practicing.  Just being ready to play.   
 Q.  Playing Vika today, I know it's right after the match, but what is your biggest takeaway from tonight's match?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I think obviously she's had so much experience, and she comes out from like the first point and doesn't give you many free points at all.   
So I think just being like ready to play and having to stay in points longer, like working on that.   
 Q.  Obviously you were pleased, but were you surprised by kind of how effective some of your shots were against her?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I think that helped me some.  Like when I started playing better, I think I was like, Okay, that's how I want to play; kept trying to do that.   
I think, yeah, it's cool.  Like I was hitting some good shots and some not-so-good shots.  Yeah, it's cool.   
Like definitely a lot to improve on.  I think that's exciting.   
 Q.  For the next few days, what do you think you're going to do for your routine, to prepare for the Australian Open?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I think I might take a couple days to like recover and then start practicing again and getting ready.   
Just doing the same things, like to prepare.   
 Q.  You're out of Hobart now?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I think so.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  As a wildcard coming in to play a Grand Slam, what's the expectations, do you think?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Well, it's a good opportunity.  I mean, quallies is always tough.  There is always a lot of good players in quallies and you have to win three matches.   
In some ways it's good, too, because you get more matches there.  But I think it's just a good opportunity and to have more experience playing the bigger tournaments, so I'm excited.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT