BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 7, 2016
Samantha Crawford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. CRAWFORD/A. Petkovic   
6-3, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  So that was pretty cool.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, really cool.   
 Q.  What were you thinking when you were on your way to the second-set bagel?  Were you pinching yourself?  You know, like, Holy crap, this is happening?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, it happened fast.  I was trying to not think about it too much, not psych myself out.   
Yeah, I was just trying to take my time when I was serving and focusing on that, and then stayed calm.   
 Q.  At what point today during the match or maybe before the match did you think, I've got my A Game today; everything is kind of working; I'm feeling good out there?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I think I had break points at up 3-2 in the first and didn't get 'em.  I was like, It's okay.  Just keep serving well and focusing on my serve.   
Then I broke at 4-3 to go up 5-3, and after that I was like, Okay, I'm serving for the set.  This is cool.  And, yeah, just tried to take my time.   
After I won the first set I was like, She has to win this set to stay in the match and I have nothing to lose.  Just try to stay calm and relax; went from there.   
 Q.  You process it at all?  You seem a little shellshocked.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, right after I won on the on-court interview I was like shaking, and then in the locker room I was like sitting for just like a little bit.  I don't know.  (Laughter.)   
It's, yeah, cool.   
 Q.  At what point did you think, Yeah, I can play the top players now; I'm good enough?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: I don't know.  I think I -- I mean, I've played like main draw at the US Open a couple times and seen -- even though those matches didn't do go my way they were still close -- saw that like I could play here and belong here.   
I think just being able to win matches and pull them out and not like doubt myself while I'm playing, I think I that kind of just helps.   
 Q.  So the last couple months were you being a little bit smarter on court?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I think when I was younger I was very like overly aggressive at times.  Not that I'm not aggressive now.  (Laughter.)   
But I think sometimes if I wasn't making shots or something I would just keep trying to go for something bigger and bigger, and that doesn't work out too well if you're not on.   
So I think I've learned like to take some pace off my shots at times and try to get a rhythm back if I've lost it.  That's helped.   
 Q.  Have you surprised yourself this week?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: I haven't thought about it too much.  I think I was happy like qualifying and like winning my first qualifying match and like starting the year off well.  Because it was on January 1st, so I was like, This is either going to be good or bad.   
Yeah, so I think I was happy with that and just took it one match at a time.  Yeah, this is awesome.   
 Q.  When you were injured and playing on the challenger tours last year, is it easy not to think about this moment, breaking through and having your moment, as you are this week?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Is it easy to...   
 Q.  Like to not think about it, like when you're going to breakthrough, when you're going to get your chance.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Oh, okay.  Well, I think playing challengers sometimes is a grind.  There are a lot of girls that are really good, and they all want to get to play the bigger tournaments.   
I think sometimes if you're playing challengers for like a long time it gets like frustrating, and you see the bigger tournaments and you wants to be there.   
So I think everyone looks on TV and watches and everything and they're like, Oh, I want to be there.  I don't want to be playing challengers forever.   
It's kind of the process, and everyone goes through it.   
 Q.  Was it frustration seeing the other women who you grew up with in juniors or maybe younger than you, Bencic, get these breakthroughs and you're seeing them play on these big courts on the tour-level events and it took you maybe a little bit - you're only 20 - but took you a little bit longer to get there?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: No, I think it's always awesome seeing like younger people do well.  Like even people I've played and have grown up with, it's always awesome because it's like, Oh, I've played with them.  I can do that, too.   
I think it gives you more of a belief that you can do it, too.  Yeah, I don't know.  I think there is like enough room for everyone to do well and play.  Yeah.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  How have you been staying in touch with your team and family back home?  Have you gotten lots of messages the last couple days?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, everyone was making fun of me for my wave after.  Yeah, I shook the umpire's hand and I guess I went like, Hey.  (Laughter.)   
Yeah.  So one person was like, Yeah, you looked great minus us the awkward wave.  I was like, Thanks.  Next time I don't know what I'll do.   
But, yeah, messages, like iMessage is awesome and WhatsApp and FaceTime and stuff.  It's really easy to stay in touch with people.   
 Q.  So next you have a semifinal against Azarenka or Vinci.  Thoughts on playing either of them.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Just another good opportunity.  (Smiling.)  Not expected to win again.   
Yeah, just want to enjoy it and try to play my best and just enjoy everything.   
 Q.  Because you're not expected to win, do you think that frees you up and gives them something to worry about?  We saw Azarenka struggle a little.  You fancy your chances?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I think that's the great thing about tennis:  anything can happen on a given day.  I think that's like one of the greatest things about tennis:  anyone can beat anyone.   
So, yeah.  I don't know.  I just want to play well and enjoy it.   
 Q.  I think Brengle left.  She wasn't there today.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: No.   
 Q.  So are you totally alone now?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.   
 Q.  So what is life like all alone?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Oh, that sounds so sad.   
 Q.  Dark.  Got dark really fast.  So you won so must be quite good.  Lonely at the top, huh?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: (Laughter.)  No, I don't know.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  How do you go about booking a practice partner or anything like that logistically?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Well, I was warming up with Brengle a lot.  Today I hit with like a hitting partner, so that was good.  I'll probably do the same thing tomorrow.   
 Q.  When did you first start watching TV, tennis, Williams sisters?  When you were basically a baby?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I started playing tennis at four, and I think always watched tennis.  Like I don't remember a point where tennis wasn't in my life, really.   
 Q.  But Venus and Serena, I would imagine you saw them quite a bit.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I remember watching them and Clijsters and Henin and Sharapova and Ivanovic.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Do you model your game or think your game is similar to anybody else's or idolize any other players?  Who do you look up to?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: I think when Sharapova won Wimbledon at like 17, I think I was like, Ooo, I want to win Wimbledon.   
Yeah, I don't remember how old I was, but, yeah, I remember watching that and thinking like I want to play similarly.  Yeah, I think like her and Ivanovic.  They both play aggressively.  That's kind of how I always wanted to play.   
 Q.  Can you remember how you got into tennis?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, my mom plays every day still.  She learned how to play in grad school and she got me into tennis.  My dad doesn't play but he watches a lot.  He loves watching.   
Yeah, it's because of my mom.   
 Q.  Have you talked to her in the course of this week?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  What's been reaction been to all this?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: She's always like, Great job Sammy.   (Phonetic).   
Yeah, she's always like, You can do it.  Like, Have a great day.  (Laughter.)  You're the best.   
I'm like, Thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT