BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 6, 2016
Samantha Crawford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. CRAWFORD/B. Bencic   
7-5, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Thank you.   
 Q.  At what point out there did you feel like, I can win this thing?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Well, the first set we were both like holding serve, so...   
And I felt like I was serving well.  I had some chances to break at like 4-3 up, so I was like, Okay, just keep focusing on my serve, and then one point at time on the returns and see if I get some chances.   
Then I won the first set; was a little nervous after that.  Yeah, I told myself to take my time and keep playing one point at time.  Yeah, pulled it out.   
 Q.  Your biggest win ever?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.   
 Q.  So no nerves at all coming on court?  You must know her a little bit, Bencic.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I played her in juniors at the US Open one year.  We had a close match then.  I mean, I think I was a little nervous, but I just told myself it was okay to be nervous.  Like I should be nervous.   
Kind of just wanted to be more excited about it than anything.   
 Q.  Qualifying to quarterfinals.  What's the secret in ingredient, do you think?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: I don't know.  Maybe just getting a lot of the matches and getting used to the courts.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Probably play next match on Patrick Rafter.  That speak to you at all?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I mean, I've played some -- well, I played last year in Indian Wells on the new stadium, so that was really big.   
I think I was warming up before and I was like, Oh, wow.  Hopefully I'm a little more used to it and a little more comfortable.   
 Q.  Your improvements over the past six months, a year have been marked and very steady.  So what has been the difference for you.  Secondly, can you talk about the transition to the pros?  Different players take to it at different times.  It seems like you're getting it now.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.  I think juniors is very different from pros.  I think I had some injuries and kind of coming back from that was a little tougher.  You lose confidence.   
So I think just playing a lot of matches and getting through tough situations really helps.  You kind of find your own way.   
 Q.  Does it surprise you how well you were able to serve and play against such a tough opponent, or do you kind of expect it?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: I feel like I've been serving really well the whole week here.  I kind of just kept trying to focus on what I could control, which is like my rituals and what I'm thinking, picking a target and stuff.   
So I was really focused on that.   
 Q.  If you may, can we talk a little bit about your family.  Your mom is Chinese, right?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.  My mom was born in Beijing.   
 Q.  Okay.  So are you able to speak some Mandarin?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.  I lived there for like ten months when I was ten.  I didn't learn when I was younger.  I learned when I was ten there.   
It's not perfect, but I manage.   
 Q.  I heard you train half a year in Beijing with Carlos.  Can you talk a little bit about that experience, living in Beijing and training with Carlos?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Well, when I was ten at Potter's Wheel, which is -- he's there now.   
So I only went there -- when I was there he wasn't there.   
 Q.  Okay.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: I went for like a week or so like a couple years ago, so...   
 Q.  Do you get any chance traveling back to Beijing to your grandparents sometimes?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, last time I was over there was like two years ago.  Yeah, my grandparents and cousin and uncle, they're all still in Beijing, so...   
 Q.  In general does it surprise you, this run, or have you been sort of patiently been waiting for a breakthrough like this?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I think I always try to take things like one match at time and not look too far ahead.   
I mean, in Quebec City I quallied and made quarters there, too, and I think that was a good experience like winning my first main draw WTA match and playing people ranked higher than me.   
Yeah, I think it's just the process.   
 Q.  Does it help at all that kind of your biggest career win comes against somebody you played in juniors who isn't that far away in age?  Younger in fact.  Did that make it maybe a little bit more easy or familiar when you stepped out there today?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I think I obviously remember playing her.  Yeah, I think maybe not as intimidating, not someone that I grew up watching on TV, which is like intimidating sometimes.   
So, yeah, maybe.   
 Q.  I think you played 31 tournaments last year, which is a lot.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Do you ever rest at all?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.   
 Q.  Maybe in December maybe?  You played all the way to November, right?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I played Carlsbad as my last tournament.  I think after that I was like, Okay, I'm ready for like some time off.  (Smiling.)   
Yeah, I think that was the most tournaments I've ever played.  I think like at the end of year I started playing well and wanted to keep playing.  I was enjoying it so...   
 Q.  You were saying you were hurt a bit over the past couple years, but last year you were okay?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.  Last year I was good.  I had knee surgery in 2013 on.   
 Q.  On what particularly?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Torn meniscus.  So it was like the third time.  I've done it twice on my left knee and once on my right.   
So I think coming back from that I had really high expectations, and like after you're injured you expect to be where you were at when you left off.  It doesn't happen, and I think that's like discouraging sometimes.   
You get through it.   
 Q.  I think you just played in the U.S. and a little bit in Canada.  Did you think of going to Europe last year or Australia just to play?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: No.  I had gone to Europe the year before and played some challengers.  I played Strasbourg.  Yeah, but not last year.   
I think if I was in quallies of the slams then maybe.  But I wasn't, so I thought it would just be easier to stay in the States.   
 Q.  What are you doing now?  Sydney?  Qualifying for Hobart?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I'm in quallies in Hobart right now.   
 Q.  And then to Melbourne obviously?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.   
 Q.  It was a little bit of a surprise to people that you won that wildcard for the Australian Open.  How much confidence does it give you from these few matches for Melbourne?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I think it's always good at the beginning of the year to get as many matches as you can.  Obviously Australian Open is really big, so I think just being comfortable playing and having matches under my belt is good.  Makes it easier.   
 Q.  Petkovic next in the quarters.  Having won this match against Bencic you feel like you can beat anybody at this point?  What are your hopes for the rest of this tournament?  You're in the quarters of a Premier.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, yeah.  (Smiling.)  I think just doing the same things and not getting too far ahead of myself and trying to just focus on what I can control and trying to play my best.   
 Q.  Can you just update your current coaching situation and also a training base, all the basics?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, so I'm back in Florida.  I was in it Charleston some last year with Jessie Pegula and Michael Joyce.  Michael still helps me.  He's Jesse's coach, but he still helps me.   
For like off-season I was at -- Kathy Rinaldi had like a training camp at USTA, so I was there for most of off-season.   
 Q.  Is anybody with you here?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: No.   
 Q.  Flying solo?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.  Maddy Brengle helped me some.  She was my on-court coach for -- well, she came on every match except for this one because she was playing.  I was like, Maybe she can shout things.  (Laughter.)   
Yeah, so she's helped me.   
 Q.  So she actually helps you?  What does she say?  Hit some aces or...  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, she's always very calm.  I mean, I had some close matches and I was like, I just need to breathe some.  She's like, It's like okay.   
Just gives you things to like focus on, which is always helpful.  I feel like sometimes when you're playing so much is going on and it's hard to like center yourself.   
 Q.  Do you feel like experiences like this, being by yourself this week, helps you in the maturation process and winning matches without someone really there by your side?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.  I think it's always good to be able to figure things out on your own and get through it on your own.   
At the end of the day, when you're playing tennis it's just you out there.  Yeah, I think it's good.   
 Q.  Did you feel after the US Open when you won juniors a few years ago external or internal pressure?  A lot of Americans talk about what we're sort of wanting and hoping for a next big star.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, I mean I think when I won juniors I was a wildcard and I wasn't expecting it and I had qualified before.  It was just like an amazing three weeks.   
I think after that -- it's hard not to like say, Well, I've done this.  I should be able to, I don't know, make it quicker or whatever.  But I think sometimes it's tough because then when you're playing you're like, Why am I not winning?   
So I don't know.  I think you to get used to it.  I think some people get used to it quicker and takes longer for other people.   
 Q.  What was it like spending a little time around Michael training?  He's seen it all.  Probably has quite a few war stories.  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah.   
 Q.  What did you kind of get out of that experience?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: Yeah, he's really funny.  He coached Sharapova for so long.  That's someone like I always grew up watching and I feel like I want to play like that and try to be aggressive.   
So it's really cool when he tells me stuff like, Sharapova did this or...   
I don't know.  It's just cool being able to get that input.   
 Q.  Have you ever got to hit with Maria Sharapova at all?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: No.   
 Q.  But you've tried?  
SAMANTHA CRAWFORD: I don't know if I've even like tried.  (Laughter.)  I don't know how try to do that.  (Laughter.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT