NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 15, 2012
Anze Kopitar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Anze Kopitar.   
   
 Q.   With the way that Coyotes team is able to hang around, how important is it to get goals early?   
ANZE KOPITAR:   It's always nice to score first because then you're obviously not playing catch‑up hockey.   It was tied after the first, but playing with the lead is easier than chasing.   
Tonight we just want to make sure we come out the same way.   We know they're going to come out stronger than they did Game1.   So we got to make sure we're ready.   
   
 Q.   The size factor, when you added King and Nolan, how much has that helped this team in terms of pushing the offense?   
ANZE KOPITAR:   Yeah, I mean, the style that we play, I guess it helps that you are a big frame and you can protect the puck well.   Obviously everybody wants to play a puck‑possession game.   If you have a big body on the puck, can protect the puck well, I guess it's a lot easier to hold onto it.   
   
 Q.   How about the two of them coming into this locker room, how have they fit in?  
ANZE KOPITAR:   Well, obviously really well.   I mean, they got called up in a pretty tough spot where we weren't scoring goals.   I think the first game they played, they were playing with Mike on the second line.   It's not the easiest thing to do, just to come and be depended on a lot of minutes, try to score goals obviously.   
I think things settled down for us and they've been playing great for us.   
   
 Q.   Was that one of the most complete games you played in these playoffs so far?   
ANZE KOPITAR:   I thought we had a couple pretty good games first couple series.   I don't know if it was the most complete.   But got the job done, that's the bottom line.   
   
 Q.   Dustin Brown has played well in every single post‑season game.   Why is that?   
ANZE KOPITAR:   That I wouldn't know.   You should probably ask him, so...   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT