NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 10, 2012
Anze Kopitar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Anze Kopitar. 

Q.   What is the mood in the room?
ANZE KOPITAR:   You failed a couple times now.   We all know how big this is.   It would certainly be nice to finish it off at home and get it done. 

Q.   What do you tell the fans right now who you know are dying with you?
ANZE KOPITAR:   As I said, it would be really nice.   But it's going to take a big effort from everybody to finish it off. 

Q.   Is there anything you need to do better in Game 6?
ANZE KOPITAR:   Just stay a little more consistent.   I thought we had a pretty good period last night, but then we got away from it a little bit.   That's probably the case.   When you do go down, you try to do a little extra stuff, you go away from your program. 
Just staying on the program, playing 60 minutes, more than that if we need to. 

Q.   Talk about the challenge of not letting any doubts creep in. 
ANZE KOPITAR:   Yeah, I mean, we're still in obviously a really good spot.   If somebody would have told us that we were going to go up 3‑2 going home to have the chance to close it out, I think everybody would sign that paper. 
It's just a matter of going out there and getting it done. 

Q.   Before you had two opportunities and haven't done it.   Is there a little more pressure?
ANZE KOPITAR:   No, not really.   We just feel both games could have gone either way.   Yeah, we knew they were going to come out with a lot of desperation, a final push.   We didn't quite get it done. 
Now we know they're going to be a desperate hockey club again and we have to match that. 

Q.   Offensively you have not had the offense you had in the first three rounds in this series.   What can you do?
ANZE KOPITAR:   Just stay with it really.   We've had some good chances.   We've hit the post quite a bit of times last couple games.   Making chances again.   Making sure when we create them, we have to finish them off.

Q.   What about Marty?
ANZE KOPITAR:   He's playing well.   He's not one of the best goaltenders in the league for no reason.   We have to find a way to beat him. 

Q.   Now that you've played five games, can you talk about how much fun this has been. 
ANZE KOPITAR:   Yeah, it's fun.   Obviously, everybody wants to play hockey this time of the year.   Hopefully it's not going to be for too much longer. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Anze. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT