U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2020
September 20, 2020
Robert MacIntyre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How was today and how would you rate your overall performance this week?
 ROBERT MacINTYRE:   Today was the same as the rest of the week, driving it all right and just hitting my irons horrifically.  Overall disappointed, but we made the cut of our first U.S. Open, so got to take the positives.
 Q. Making your first cut at a U.S. Open, what are the positives you take away from that?
 ROBERT MacINTYRE:   Yeah, I found something in my putting.  I haven't been putting great all season.  Changed a few things in the last couple weeks and starting to see big improvement.  I'd say my putting was superb this week.  Score didn't really show it, but yeah, just got to take the positives.
 Q. Is making the cut in all three majors satisfying, or do you believe there's a lot more to come in those events?
 ROBERT MacINTYRE:   Obviously it's satisfying, but this week I felt like I should have been competing.  It was my style golf course, but it was really tough.  Normally I'm one of the better iron players out here, and this week was just horrific.  My iron play was terrible.  I've got a lot to work on.
 Q. What did you learn most from this week that can stand you in good stead moving forward?
 ROBERT MacINTYRE:   I'm not really sure.  I mean, I've just shot a 79 so I've got to go away and think about it just now.  I'm not happy with how it's going.  I've got to go away and think about it before I can really answer that.
 Q. Is the Scottish Open up next for you?  What's your goal leading into this event.
 ROBERT MacINTYRE:   Yeah, my goal is win it.  I don't turn up to any golf tournament not hoping to win.  It's as simple as that.  If you're not out here trying to win, then you shouldn't be here.  Obviously to win I've got to do a lot of things right, and this week I felt like I've done a lot of things right, but a lot of things were poor.  I have a lot to work on over the next week before the Scottish.
 Q. We talked yesterday about how pleasing it is to raise more than $30,000 for McNeese State University?
 ROBERT MacINTYRE:   Yeah, it's good, but I should have made more for them.  But I've helped my little part, so I've got to be happy with myself.  I'm trying to do something to help others while I play my golf, and to raise that kind of money, not just me but my sponsors, Aberdeen Asset, Orion Group and Arnold Clark have been a big part in that, and it wouldn't be possible without them for me to be out here playing, and for them to support me when I choose to do this kind of thing shows the support I've got from all my sponsors, which is huge.
 Q. Was there any reason for not playing in the Irish Open?
 ROBERT MacINTYRE:   I mean, good luck to the boys traveling from here this week that have been battered and bruised out on that golf course to play next week.  I think it's just a normal thing to do.  That thing -- it's a mental battle out here this week, and it just crushes you.  The other reason is I've got to go work on some things.  This week I've pinpointed a few areas where I really need to improve, and I'll go away with my coach and work on that.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT