DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 24, 2019
Robert MacIntyre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You just crowned an amazing first season on The European Tour, by winning the Sir Henry Cotton Rookie of the Year Award. Describe that what that means to you.
ROBERT MacINTYRE: It feels great now that it's finally over, done and dusted. It's going to mean a lot to my family more than anyone. So just absolutely delighted to finally get over the line.
Q. Previous winners include Lyle, Olazábal, Garcia, Koepka, all guys that went on to become major champions.
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah, it's going to be Robert MacIntyre, as well. I'm absolutely delighted. I didn't expect a season like this from a first season. I've seen guys, friends come on here and struggle a little bit, but I didn't think this would happen.
I knew my golf game was good enough. I just didn't know if it was going to turn out this year; it's best I've ever played, and that's thanks to everyone on my team, especially David Burns who has coached me for the last three years. I can't thank them enough.
Q. A year ago this week, you were 300th in the world just having graduated from The Challenge Tour and you're now charging towards the Top-50, threatening to become the best left-hander in the world with Phil slipping down. What are your ambitions now?
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Top-50 in the world by April. That's my only goal now. With a good finish this year, I've obviously opened doors for the early start of next year, which is huge, because I wasn't going to achieve it unless I won this year. It opens doors for us now and we're just going to keep shooting for the stars and see where we go.
Q. Over 23 years of age, you've won over 2 million Euros alone. Are you going to be spoiling yourself?
ROBERT MacINTYRE: I've been looking at a couple of things.
Q. Like what?
ROBERT MacINTYRE: A house. But I don't know. I've got plenty of years ahead of me before I have to live on my own. I love my Mum doing my washing. I've got a wee while yet. I'm going to go enjoy it tonight with family and friends that are over.
Q. Sir Henry Rookie of the Year, how does that sound?
ROBERT MacINTYRE: That feels brilliant. Halfway through the season, seeing it insight, that was one of my goals today and we finally achieved it.
Q. How much were you enjoying the challenge with Kurt?
ROBERT MacINTYRE: First two rounds I was playing with Kurt, and last two days -- today with Justin, I didn't even think about the Rookie of the Year if I'm honest. The last two days, I just went and played my golf and finally some good golf turned up this week.
Q. Lots of top Scottish guys that have won, that must be special?
ROBERT MacINTYRE: It is. It was on the to-do list, as I said, but I can't look too far ahead of myself. I've got another season next year. I've got to go and do it all over again.
I'm just over the moon and going to celebrate with family.
Q. Few players have played more rounds of golf than you this year. Will you keep that schedule up?
ROBERT MacINTYRE: I'm not sure. Come the first few events of the season, I'll know what's going on, whether I get into majors. Just now, I'm not worried about that. I'm going to take at least four weeks off of not touching a golf club, so I'm looking forward to that and then sit down with my manager and my team and work out what the to-do is for next year.
Q. Huge congratulations. Wrapping up the Rookie of the Year title, can you sum up the emotions that you're feeling right now?
ROBERT MacINTYRE: I'm absolutely delighted to be honest. It's something that we set out to do halfway through the season when this award came to light, really. I didn't have it in the plan at the start of the year but halfway through it became a goal. Today we finally achieved it and I'm going to sure celebrate with the family later on.
Q. So much support from those around the course here this week, but you've had so much support, as well, and accolades from your fellow pros. Can you put that into words, as well?
ROBERT MacINTYRE: It's brilliant. Bernd was there at the 18th there to congratulate me, and Bernd's become a good mate now, from the battles; I suppose it's from him beating me in Denmark. But for guys like that to be appreciating my golf is huge.
These guys are world-renowned and that's what I want to be.
Q. Looking back to a year ago, just graduated from The Challenge Tour, what were the ambitions, and how far have you excited what you thought was possible this season?
ROBERT MacINTYRE: I mean, I've absolutely sailed past -- I just tried to keep my card. That's plain and simple. The goal was keep my Tour card. I didn't ever think this was going to happen. For it to happen, I can't explain it. It's something that I mean, for a boy from a town that it's not known for its golf, it's not known for its sport other than Shinty, it's something that you dream of.
Q. You're pretty good at Shinty, as well, but there is the small matter of the first major of the year and cracking into that. Is that the first goal as you head into the new season?
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah, that was my goal for the last four or five weeks. We've fallen just short. But it's opened doors to WGCs at the start of the year, so there's bigger points up for grabs. I'm just going to keep shooting for the Top-50. If we can achieve that, then by April, I'll be going to hopefully Augusta.
Q. You've got a nice little purse gathered from this season. What are you going to treat yourself to?
ROBERT MacINTYRE: I'm not sure yet. I'm not a flash guy. I treated myself to a nice car before, in the last few weeks. The next thing on the agenda is probably a house, but I like my Muhammad Ali doing my wash too much, so it's going to be difficult for her to kick me out.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT