DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 22, 2019
Robert MacIntyre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  17, hard-fought day again?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: I actually played all right. Just couldn't get the ball near the hole. Day was just summed up on 17. I just picked the wrong start line. I knew it was going to fade. Just straight in the water.   
 Q.  Good 5 to finish, tee shot on the last.  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah, there's nowhere to really hit it out there. I can't see a shot for me. I feel I hit a great tee shot. I seen it bounce once and I'm thinking, perfect, it's in the middle of the fairway. Got there and boys are looking in the water. I just, I don't know, I may as well stand up on that tee shot and just hit it as hard as I can and hope for the best. I hit what I felt was a perfect tee shot and it was in the water.   
 Q.  You've played a lot of new courses this year and you've handled them well, but this one is a difficult one to get used to winds.  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Actually I quite like the golf course. I don't find it as difficult as I'm making it look. I feel like there's scoring out here. But just one of them weeks that I'm struggling a wee bit. Just can't get the ball -- I'm hitting good shots to 20 feet, and you're just not going to score from 20 feet.   
 Q.  Did you manage to stay focused on you rather than watching what he's up to? Be less than human if you didn't.  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: No, let him play his own game, I play mine. Yeah, I can't worry about him. I've got to go and try and win a golf tournament instead of win Rookie of the Year. I'm not really worried about Rookie of the Year. If it happens, it will happen. I just want today to get back in the golf tournament and I've not done that.   
 Q.  Still a low one in your bag for the weekend?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: I've always got one in store. I don't know when it's coming. My iron play is good. It wasn't a bad tee shot on 17. It was the start line. I should have been started it right at pin. Pick a target five left of the pin, and I've hit it and as soon as I've hit it, what are you doing aiming left. Little 5-iron cuts -- didn't even have chance of staying up. It was always in the water.   
 Q.  After two days, you say you're concentrating on yourself but being away from each other, will that maybe be a spark for you and him?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: It is what it is. Doesn't matter who you're playing with. You've got to go and play good golf. Be good get away from it for a day at least.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT