TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 9, 2019
Robert MacIntyre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  67. You turned what looked like an ordinary day into a very special day with 4-under from the last four.  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah, I was struggling out there and stayed patient, unbelievably patient. It was just one of them days where you hang on and then you just bide your time and things happen.   
 Q.  Through 11 holes, level par and losing ground on the leaders. Where does this remarkable maturity come from?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: I think it's everything, from family life to Greg on the bag, Dave this week, my coach. Early on, you're like, I can't do anything about what's happened, and I have to deal with what I've got and that's the way do I it. Deal with what's in front of me and not what's behind me. That's what we'll do tomorrow, as well.   
 Q.  How big a part does Dave, your coach, play in your success?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah, I changed three years ago now and he's changed quite a bit in my swing. Still my swing but he's changed it so that it's more -- it withstands hopefully pressure.   
And Dave, he's not just a coach. He's a friend, psychologist for me. He's been superb and the reason I'm up here so many weeks.   
 Q.  You've had three runner-ups this year. What can you take from those situations tomorrow?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: I've shot under par every time in them situations, so I'm just going to play my golf. Yesterday the front nine was my nine. Today the back nine was my nine. If I can put two nines together, I'll be in a good spot.   
 Q.  How exciting to have the opportunity, not just to win for the first time on The European Tour, but a Rolex Series Event, 2 million first prize?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: It would be nice but got to go out there and play some golf first. If that comes, that comes, but we'll just take it as it comes.   
 Q.  Happy with 67?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah, I was on the range this morning and was struggling. To walk off 5-under par, over the moon.   
I struggled early on with the putting because every time I was looking into the sun. I thought using Greg's sunglasses would help but I just kept them away. Just got to keep doing what I'm doing and see how we go.   
 Q.  The game plan tomorrow?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah, yeah I'm just going to stick to my game plan, been aggressive on approach shots and driver off almost every tee. Just got to keep doing what I'm doing and hopefully that will be good at the end of the week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT