THE 148TH OPEN
July 21, 2019
Robert MacIntyre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ROBERT MacINTYRE: You never know how many of these you're going to get.  For the first one, it's been a dream come true.   
 Q.  In those conditions it was pretty impressive.  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah.  Again, I actually didn't putt great.  I missed it in the right spots.  The first time today I'd actually said we've played the golf course the way it was meant to be played.   
We stuck to our guns, we done everything right.  Again, a few putts just slipped by.  I happened to get the one in the end.   
 Q.  You must be proud of yourself the way you handled yourself.  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah, it's been good.  I'm quite a chilled-out guy.  So that's kind of how to enjoy it.   
Last week was huge for the preparation for this.  What an experience that was last week.  It just set me up perfectly for this.   
 Q.  You're only one shot out of the top-10 at the moment, and the way things go this afternoon you might get an automatic invite back.  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah, you never know.  I missed a short putt on 15 -- not a short putt -- on 14, sorry, about seven feet and I thought maybe that would go in.   
The weather is coming in, so you never know what's going to happen.   
 Q.  Given what you've achieved this season, is it keeping your feet on the ground?  You have to focus on that, don't you?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Massively.  But, no, I'm sure there's no problem with that.   
I've just got to enjoy this with my family that are here.  When I get home I'm sure I'll enjoy it.  I've got three weeks off.  It's time to enjoy this one and see everyone.   
 Q.  What are you going to do on the three weeks?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: I don't know.  I think I'm scheduled for Tuesday so I'm sure I'll be there.  But other than that I'm going to relax for the first week and just enjoy this.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: I started to just say it there, everyone is stepping up, everyone is pushing each other.  Colin seen us last week and said to us it's where you want to be.  And at the end of the day cruised it.  But, no, it's been brilliant for Scottish golf.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Obviously it doesn't matter what you see or what you do, you're going to get negative feedback.  But I'm proud of the way I handled the whole week, from start to finish, from my preparation all the way through to the last putt there.  So I'm just proud of the way I've done everything.   
 Q.  And the highlight of the week?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Highlight of the week has to be holing a 15-, 20-footer on 18 there.  The hair is standing on the back of your neck when that putt went in.  That's what you play the game for.   
 Q.  That was absolutely huge.  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: We said it coming down the last that I thought we might get it.  I said to Greg, I've missed -- on 16 and 17 and 15, the putts just shaved by the edge of the hole.  I thought one of them has got to go today.  So happy to get it on the last.   
 Q.  How many times were you in the backyard doing that putt in your head?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: As a young kid when you're on the putting green, you're thinking win the Masters, win The Open.   
Unfortunately that putt wasn't to win The Open but it's put me in good position for the future.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Every week.  It gives me from half 6:00 until 8:00.  I don't know what it does, it just gives me that peace of mind, I'm away from absolutely everything out there.   
 Q.  Is it fitness or just hitting balls?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: No, it gives me everything.  It gives me fitness.  I lost the weight from when I started doing it just after Morocco is when I actually got back doing it.  So far so good.  So keep doing it.   
It's not dangerous at all, you know what's going on.  Again, just enjoy what I'm doing.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: It's been a good week.  It's been a great experience.  I'm sure it's been a special one for Greg, as well.   
 Q.  I round of 68 to finish.  A fantastic birdie at the 18th.  Just tell us what that felt like?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah, it was brilliant, the experience all around, from the first tee and the first day to the last day.  And we just didn't get the putts going this week, but to finish with a putt on the last, to hear the cheers made the hairs on the back of your neck stand up.  That's what you play for.   
 Q.  The last time I looked at the leaderboard you're tied 11th, that might go up with the horrendous weather coming in.  What would it mean to finish in the top-10 of your first Open Championship?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah, it would mean everything.  That's what I play the game for.  Obviously I'd like to change there on this afternoon.  But these things test you.  And I feel like I've done everything right this week.   
 Q.  You say you've done everything right.  What particularly went right for you?  Overall you've played fantastically well, given your inexperience playing in an event this size?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah, I just didn't putt great but I didn't let it really get to me.  I've struggled on the greens all week.  Pace putting was probably the best it's been for a long, long time and just the short putts.  But I felt like I drove the ball well.  Irons were great.  Long irons, I mean I feel like long irons as good as I've ever been.  The work with David, my coach, has been huge.  The Scottish Open I was panicking there on the Tuesday, but he stayed calm, kept me calm, and here we are.   
 Q.  Is that an example of just how well you guys can work together as a team?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: It's everyone.  Everyone in the background, from management to family to David, to Greg, my caddie.  I'm a chill out kind of guy, so it's about keeping the people around you the same.  And you've just got to enjoy every moment and don't let too much get to you, that's what we try to do.   
 Q.  You've been no stranger to links golf.  How did you find Royal Portrush?  It looks outstanding for all of us watching behind the ropes, but as a player, one of the finest links courses?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Definitely.  I don't know what is better than this.  It's possibly the best links golf course I've ever played on.  I played here in the Home Internationals, I knew I was coming to one of best.  But I think from my first Open Championship to be here, I don't think anything can top it.   
 Q.  What did you think about the overall experience of the Open coming to Northern Ireland?  It's only the second time it's come.  A popular venue, you'd like to see it come back here?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Definitely.  It's been superb.  The fans, the way it was -- the fans out there and the thousands cheering everyone on.  No, it's been superb.   
 Q.  The best thing for you would be playing in front of your own fans at Troon or Turnberry, but the Irish fans have made it feel like home?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah, the Scottish guys, on thought the first tee might be a wee bit quiet, but they made me feel at home.  It's been an amazing experience for myself and my family as well.  It's coming I'll never forget.   
 Q.  What do you do now after such a great finish in The Open Championship?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Three weeks off.  Fly home tonight and just relax and see everyone I need to see.   
 Q.  And what, again, keeping working on your game and just hope for more and more?  
ROBERT MacINTYRE: Yeah.  Just keep doing the simple things right.  Yeah, just keep practicing, keep preparing the way we're preparing, and hopefully something good pops up again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT