THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2021
Robert MacIntyre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How exciting is it to be making your debut at THE PLAYERS?
 ROBERT MACINTYRE:   It's huge.  It's huge for me and my team.  We've worked hard every step of the way for this chance, and now we're here.  It's part of the journey that I'm on, and it's been a fast and smooth progression through the ranks from Challenge Tour, European Tour, major events, and now obviously playing PGA TOUR events.  It's what I've dreamed of as a kid, and it's where we are now.
 Q. Just general thoughts on the course yourself, where do you think you can prosper out here and where is the biggest threat for your game?
 ROBERT MACINTYRE:   It's brilliant.  It was like last week.  If you play good golf, if you hit good shots, you'll be rewarded, hit bad shots you're going to be punished, and that's the sort of golf courses I like.  If you drive it well out here, you've got a good chance of scoring well.  If you don't drive it well, you've almost got no chance unless you're hitting it Bryson distances.  But no, I'm looking forward to the challenge.  My game hasn't been there the last two weeks but we've managed in hang in there and score all right.  That's what I do, just fight till the end.
 Q. What was the first experience like at 17?  You'll have to tell us about the backwards chip-in.
 ROBERT MACINTYRE:   It was unbelievable.  I just said that the green is smaller than it looks on TV, but again, it's a short iron.  You just focus on the target and you go.  But that shot that I hit was -- I mean, it was just pot luck, wasn't it.  You're standing there expecting me to hit this thing in the water, if I hit it.  It just came off a little bit thin, dead on line, and how it went in the hole, I don't know.  It's just pot luck.
 Q. You're paired with Westwood and Oosthuizen the first two rounds.  Just talk about that pairing.
 ROBERT MACINTYRE:   That's a great group.  For the style of golf course especially, the two guys are going to play -- two steady players.  Obviously Lee has just come off a good result there.  But no, two great guys, and it's a perfect golf course for the two of them.
 It's going to be nice to watch that, and hopefully we can build momentum from the get-go with them guys.
 Q. What are your memories watching this event on TV growing up?  Do any specific moments step out to you?
 ROBERT MACINTYRE:   I mean, there's so many.  There's so many different ones.  There's none that really stand out like bang in my face that I'd say, but even Rory's win the last time, the drive off 18.  He plays golf the way I love to see golf being played, and that's give it everything you've got, and if it's enough, it's enough.  If it's not, well, back to the drawing board and come back the next week.
 Q. Sandy Lyle, obviously a guy from Scotland wins this event, albeit a while ago, but have you ever seen any footage of him winning that tournament?
 ROBERT MACINTYRE:   Yeah, I've seen footage of that.  Obviously Sandy is a legend back home, as well, so no, I'm just going to go out here and try and play good golf, and if we're in contention come Sunday, then we'll give it everything we've got.
 Q. This is your third event on U.S. soil.  You closed nicely at Bay Hill under some really tough scoring conditions.  Do you feel that gave you any momentum leading into this week?
 ROBERT MACINTYRE:   I did.  I started hitting it better.  I haven't been striking it great.  I messaged my coach.  My coach was on red alert on Sunday morning at an airport.  Got Mike, my caddie, to send him some videos while we were on the range, and he just gave us little swing thoughts that we managed to take out on the golf course.  I was 4-over through six holes or whatever and I hadn't missed a golf shot.  I felt like I played good golf, and Mike just said to me, I'm huffing and puffing saying, such a bad start, but he goes, it's a start.  It doesn't matter, it's a start.  We just found confidence throughout the round, and we just started hitting better shots, one after another, and holed a few putts, and yeah, I was actually disappointed with level par, but that's golf.
 Q. Obviously just the opportunity this week, good finish to lock up a spot in Augusta, is that on your mind at all?  Are you kind of approaching that --
 ROBERT MACINTYRE:   No, that's in the back burner.  I'm out here this week trying to compete.  Hit a good tee shot off the first tomorrow and away we go.  The Masters will take care of itself.  If I play well this week, it will take care of it.  If I don't play well, I might have taken care of it before now.
 I'm not fussed about the Masters just now.  If I get that invite, I get that invite.
 Q. How do you think this golf course sets up for you as a lefty and the shot shape that you play?
 ROBERT MACINTYRE:   Yeah, I've only seen it once.  I mean, I played 18 yesterday, I played nine this morning.  I'm going to play the back nine this afternoon.  The wind direction is obviously different from previous years because of the time of year it is.  It's different for everyone.  I'm just going to go out there -- there's some holes where I find the tee shots are going to be difficult because of the doglegs, overhanging trees and stuff like that.  If I control my golf ball the way I know I can control my golf ball, it doesn't matter what's in my way.  A golf shot is a golf shot.  If it's on a tee it's even better.  Yeah, we just go out there and swing with freedom, and hopefully it works.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT