DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN
July 5, 2019
Robert MacIntyre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Conditions today versus yesterday, very different?
ROBERT MACINTYRE: Yeah, a lot tougher for us.  Yesterday we probably got the best of the weather and the wind started to calm down, but today I think we've got the worst.  Looking at it just now, the showers, I was soaked for the first kind of 14 holes.  But I managed to hang on out there today and get a low one in.
Q. What was key to the point today?
ROBERT MACINTYRE: Patience.  My ball-striking is really good just now.  I drove it a lot better today than I did yesterday, so it's just about getting the ball in play and taking it from there, just giving yourself lots of chances, and today I gave myself a lot and just didn't take them.  But we'll take it.
Q. Am I right in saying as a kid your favourite sport wasn't golf, that your favourite sport was shinty?
ROBERT MACINTYRE: Yeah, I still love shinty, and it's always been through the blood, through the family with my dad and my papa.  Everyone has played shinty, so it's still in the blood.
Q. Well played today, 1-under, carrying on the good work from yesterday.  How did it feel out there?
ROBERT MACINTYRE: It was good.  It was tough.  I mean, after 10 holes I think I was level par, so it was just about hanging on when the showers were coming in.  But 1-under par, I'd have taken that before going out.
Q. Did the showers make it a lot more difficult out there than yesterday?
ROBERT MACINTYRE: Yeah, even coming in when it dried up, the wind is lightly different, so we're hitting 7-iron in the green on 17, and yesterday we flicking wedges at it.  With a tight pin it's definitely a lot tougher today.  But now the guys are going to take advantage of the less showers out there now, so I'm happy with 1-under.
Q. Did it change the game plan as you were playing out there?  Did you know the rains were going to come in and alter your game accordingly this morning?
ROBERT MACINTYRE: No, I thought it was going to be dry all morning.  The weather man was wrong in my books.  But no, it was about putting yourself into the weekend to have a shout and just take it from there.
Q. What is the game plan for the weekend, just more of the same?
ROBERT MACINTYRE: Yeah, exactly the same, just stick to what I'm doing.  I've been doing it well all year, so just stick to what we're doing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT