OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 29, 2021
Robert MacIntyre
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q 68, no bogeys on the card to add to yesterday's 67.  Tell us about that round from your point of view?
 ROBERT MacINTYRE:   Yeah, it wasn't as pretty as yesterday's round, if I'm being honest.  Wasn't as solid.  But that's the way golf is.  You can't have a 72-hole tournament where you hit it absolutely perfectly.  Today I felt I was out of rhythm early on; the group itself, we couldn't get any momentum within the group, which was difficult.
 But I hung in there and I putted great.
 Q Give us an insight into how the golf course is playing today compared to yesterday.
 ROBERT MacINTYRE:   Well, it's pretty much similar.  There's not much wind out there just now.  Hopefully it picks up again as it did yesterday afternoon.  It's just you've got to be in the fairways.  If you miss the fairways and you're in that second cut of rough, it's a lottery.  Sometimes you can advance it 180 yards and sometimes you can only move it a hundred.  It's about finding fairways and greens and yeah, just try and hole some putts.
 Q You're currently 52nd in the world, and so one big performance takes you into the Top-50.  Cutoff point for the WGC México, The Players Championship, the Masters, all been the 22nd of February and 29th of March, you're well aware of.  How much is that in your consciousness?  How much of an incentive is it to play well right now and qualify for those huge events?
 ROBERT MacINTYRE:   It's a goal.  It's a goal of mine, but it's all taken care of by good golf.  And what I'm doing just now is I'm playing good golf and starting to find a stride with the irons.  If I continue to do that, then that should hopefully take care of that.
 Just now I'm sticking to what I've been doing the last two days or the last week and a half, and just enjoy myself.  Mick's doing a great job of keeping my in check and keeping me from losing a bit of cool.  Just go and enjoy ourselves and see where we end up.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT