HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 24, 2011
Christabel Goh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tell us about your day today?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: That was a really, really long day. I was struggling with almost everything I guess. Just all over the place.

 Q. Back to the previous day and qualifying and today, what's the difference?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: Well, the course is playing pretty much the same. Just a bit more windy. The greens are a lot faster compared to the qualifier. But yeah, just kind of got blown away by this whole thing, people coming out and watching and God knows what. 

 Q. Seemed that you were playing fast today, was there any rush in your game?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: I probably rushed a couple of shots but I did take my time on practically all of them. Yeah, I generally play pretty quick, so it doesn't really bother me. I do have a tendency to speed up a little too much. But I think I did quite good at taking my time today. 

 Q. So if you can just talk about the experience, playing with two Koreans who are former U.S. Open-winners, was it intimidating on the first day, or do you get over that?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: Not so much like playing with them, just the whole like in front of friends and family and Singapore. Never had quite a good tee shot on the first hole ever. So that was like, scary. 

 Q. The tee shot on the first --
 CHRISTABEL GOH: Yeah, mind you, I hit it like the best I could hit it on the first, best ever I think. It was like, yeah, I'm done, ahhh, got that out of the way. Just 17 more holes. 

 Q. Your second one, when you shot one birdie there, and the birdies on the back nine, tell us about those?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: 12 and 16. 

 Q. Talk us through those birdies. 
 CHRISTABEL GOH: Both of them, short putts. Both downhill left-to-right, actually. 

 Q. And tell us on 12, what did you hit in there and how close was it?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: I think it was four or five feet. 

 Q. What club did you hit in there?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: It was an easy cut-ish 6-iron off the slope. 

 Q. Yardage?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: I think I had 153, I believe. 

 Q. To about five feet, was it? 
 CHRISTABEL GOH: Yeah, metres, by the way. I don't really remember. It was like an easy 6-iron downwind.

 Q. And what about on 16? 
 CHRISTABEL GOH: On 16, that was like a little baby flop-ish shot, right off the bunker, over the whole slope, landed just on the green and rolled too far past and still made the putt.

 Q. How far was that putt?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: Probably four, four and a half feet.

 Q. And a couple of birdies there. What was your sort of mood then? Did you feel like you were settling down and enjoying it?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: I wouldn't say settling down. Just like, okay, you've got this, it's not so bad, right, right (in convincing voice). And then it's just like, okay, try and just chug along and try and get pars and come back with a half-decent score, which I didn't quite manage to get. 

 Q. So what are you going to do, are you going to take that into tomorrow's round, the couple of birdies on the back nine, feel a bit more positive about your game going into tomorrow?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: I think it's still a bit up-and-down, so I'm not quite what to think about it. I might think about it over lunch or something. 

 Q. Are you going to go to the range to practice or just head back home and just take it easy?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: Probably putt for a bit, and that's it. My hitting wasn't too bad today. Could be better. But not fussed about it. Probably hit my driver the best I have since I got it. 

 Q. And what about the game plan or goals for tomorrow? How do you go into tomorrow now?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: Make more putts. Just that, make more putts. Quit messing around. Just go out and hit the damn thing into the damn hole. It's easy. (Laughter).

 Q. I was kind of impressed that you held it together and to come back and start getting those birdies because a lot of people in your position would have ran up big disaster holes. 
 CHRISTABEL GOH: I know.

 Q. Does that say there's some strength in there?
 CHRISTABEL GOH: Definitely a bit more than last year, for sure. Not quite enough I think. But I'm working on it. I think after this week, it will be a lot better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT