PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 24, 2019
Linnea Strom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a round out there for you today.  Why were you feeling so comfortable out there on the course?
LINNEA STROM: I don't know.  I think actually yesterday I was struggling a lot with my tee shots, and so after the round I went to the range and Daniel, my caddie, and I called my coach back home.  We did some work on the range, so it felt a little bit better today.
Still some shots that were not 100, but overall I think that was my goal today.  Just feel comfortable off the tee.  Because yesterday I was hitting my irons good on the greens and putting felt great; I just felt if I can get a little bit more comfortable off the tee that I might get a good round in. That's what happened.
So when I made the turn I started off with -- I think four out of those five birdies were probably inside four feet, so it wasn't that I was making long putts.  That was pretty nice.
If you hit them that close you kind of keep going because you're comfortable and confident.  So, yeah.
Q. I was going to day, what was it about those holes, tee shots, that really set you up for success?  Six birdies in a row is kind of unheard of sometimes.
LINNEA STROM: Yeah, I actually didn't even notice that I did six in a row because I was just trying to take one hole at a time.  But, yeah, I mean, I was good from the tee on those holes and then hitting my wedges good.  I knew if I hit it good from the tee I'm not going to have long second shots into the green.
So, yeah, I think there were probably one par-3, one par-5.  The par-5 I was going for it, but I ended up having a shaped shot and hit that one good.
Yeah.
Q. What was the motivation that your coach gave you when you called?
LINNEA STROM: There is some little technical stuff, but I think also it's a little bit in my head.  Like if I start to miss one then I'm thinking, What am I doing wrong?
So he gave me one feeling to think of.  A little bit more fade feeling because the misses draw left.  So I think I had that a lot today in my practice swings, and then when I stepped over ball I was just focusing on the target.
Q. What time did you finish your round yesterday?
LINNEA STROM: I think it was just before 6:00.
Q. Right.  Because I walked out to range late last night and there was one person out there and I think it was you.
LINNEA STROM: Yeah, it could have been.  It was hot.  It was very humid yesterday.  It's more sun today, but it was very hot yesterday afternoon.
I was tired, but I felt that I just have to figure out so I could go to bed and feel good about today.
Yeah, that's what I did, so...
Q. How long were you out there?
LINNEA STROM: Not very long.  Maybe like 20 minutes.
Q. Okay.
LINNEA STROM: On the range, yeah.  Yeah, we called my coach and he was watching on FaceTime so he could see me swing.  That helped.
Q. What is your coach's name?
LINNEA STROM: Ola Lindgren.
Q. How long has he been your coach?
LINNEA STROM: Since I was 11 years old, so basically my whole golf career.
Q. Do you know what happened two years ago today?
LINNEA STROM: Two years ago?  I think that was when we won Nationals, right?
Q. Yes.
LINNEA STROM: Yeah.
Q. The miracle of Google searches.  It says right there May 24th and has a video of you making the putt.
LINNEA STROM: Oh, it was the exact date today?  Okay, maybe that's why I played good.
Q. What do you remember?  Do you have vivid memories of that day or that putt?
LINNEA STROM: Yes, I have a lot of memories because it got dark the night before, so in the semifinal we had to finish off in the morning and play two holes.
Me and Monica, my teammate, had to play extra holes, so...
Q. Just to get to the finals?
LINNEA STROM: Yes, just to get to the final.  So it was very exciting moments in the morning, and then we just had some rest and then we went out in the final and were very confident after the win in the morning.
So, yeah, I have good memories from that day.
Q. Do you remember that last putt?
LINNEA STROM: I do.  I think I remember -- I almost remember the putt from the semifinal more because it was so much pressure and everybody was there.  Our men's team were there and we were playing against Stanford.
In the final against Northwestern, kind of felt that we had it the whole like -- I think I won on 15 maybe.  When I won my match it was over because we already had two points.
So it was a little bit more exciting in the semifinal.
Q. So it came down to you in the semis?
LINNEA STROM: Yes, yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT