ANA INSPIRATION
April 4, 2019
Linnea Strom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round today.  You had a ton of success in college at Arizona State just down the road.  Winner last year on the Symetra Tour, and now doing this.  How does all of that play into your confidence?  You seemed very relaxed today.  
LINNEA STROM: Well, yeah, I don't know.  I just think that I try to always be kind of relaxed because that's the easiest way for me to get in my momentum.  And then having Sophie on the bag, especially a week like this, I think that helped me a lot today.  Like we talk and just try to have fun out there and just enjoy it.   
I like the golf course.  I played it before at Q-School, like you said, so good memories from here.  Just enjoy it.   
 Q.  You mentioned Sophie Gustafson, a five-time winner on the LPGA Tour.  What was that discussion like?  I know you're a longer hitter.  How much and how did she help you today?  
LINNEA STROM: I think I that our game is pretty similar what it seems like, so I think that she kind of helps me to believe in going forward and hitting the longer shots.  That's what I need to be able to play good and not hold back on anything.   
And just having a player, you know, she knows how it is to be in a situation, so, yeah, it's good.   
 Q.  Seemed like the birdies just started to fly after the 7th hole.  Something that just clicked during that time?  
LINNEA STROM: Yeah, well, I think I just tried to be relaxed and take one shot at a time.  I knew that the wind was going to pick up a little bit more the further I was going in the round, so I just tried to not get ahead myself and just focus on every shot and try to take one hole at a time and make some birdies.   
I got some putts dropping, yeah, so it was good day.   
 Q.  Talk about how tough that course is playing out there right now.  Not a lot of low scores like we've seen in the past.  
LINNEA STROM: Yeah, it is tough.  If you don't hit fairways you can get some pretty thick rough lies, so I think that's important:  hit fairways.   
And then also the greens are fast.  If the pins are in tricky positions it's important to be on the right side of the pin to not get a very fast downhill putt.   
So I think that's key.   
 Q.  Certainly you have some history on this course.  Do you find that as an advantage, or...  
LINNEA STROM: Well, since I played good at Q-School here I just have good memories from here.  I reminded myself of that today.  I know it's a tough course, but there is some birdies out there.  Just stay patient and let them come to you and not get ahead of yourself and I think it's good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT