BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 22, 2019
Linnea Strom
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An interview with:
LINNEA STROM
Q. It was a really tremendous day out there for you.  Unfortunately bit a bad luck there on the 18th.  Talk us through that lie and what you were facing with that shot?
LINNEA STROM: Well, I hit a bad shot in on 18 and got unlucky got embedded in the side of the bunker, so I didn't have much to do.  I just tried to get it up and, but it came back in the bunker.  Then it wasn't much sand in that lie.  I hit it long over the green and managed to make it up and down from there.
A bit unlucky on the last hole, but overall very happy with my round today.  It was so much fun to play out there with my whole team supporting.  This is like home for me to be here, so I was pretty comfortable with them out there watching me.  That was a big support today.
Q. It was amazing for me following and listening to some of the comments in the crowd.  Could you imagine you would be able to play golf this well?
LINNEA STROM: Well, I mean, I had such a great time at ASU.  I could say I wouldn't be the player that I am today if I hadn't had that experience at ASU.  So I had great years there.
I mean, I don't know.  I didn't expect maybe to play this good this week.  I'm happy about it.  I'm looking forward to the weekend, and hopefully I can continue to manage myself good out there.
Q. And over the course of the weekend, how are you going to get through being in the position you are and manage expectations?
LINNEA STROM: Well, it's the first time I'm in this position, so I guess I'm just going to try to stay focused, as I did today, and feel that I have the support around me, and just enjoy it and see what's going to happen.
I'm happy to be in this position.
Q. Maybe not the way you wanted to end today, but what an outstanding round.  What was working well for you out there today?
LINNEA STROM: I hit my irons very well today.  I wasn't perfect off the tee, but I managed to hit a couple fairways, and then I was very good with my shots into the green.  Couple short putts for birdie in the beginning of the round, and I think that got me in a good momentum going the whole round.
Obviously I'm not used to being in this situation with a lot of the people watching and everything.  It's a bit different.  But as I said, with my ASU team out there around me I feel like I had some great support.  I live here so it's like home for me.
Yeah, I just enjoyed it out there and tried to stay in my own little bubble and be focus and just enjoy it.
Q. I was going to say, you had quite the familiar crowd out here following you today.
LINNEA STROM: Yes.
Q. Did that boost your confidence?
LINNEA STROM: It does, yeah.  Also, I mean, that's my team from college.  If I didn't leave early I would still be on the team, so I'm very close with the girls and the coaches.
Kind of brought a lot good memories back from the college time and having them out here, so it was fun.
Q. How do you think you're time with the Sun Devils really helped out you out today here on the course?
LINNEA STROM: Well, I mean, obviously I wouldn't be where I am today without my two and a half years at ASU and everything that Coach Missy and Michelle taught me.
I think that was great preparation coming out on the tour, the LPGA, yeah.
Q. A weekend ahead of you.  What's on the agenda?  What's the mindset going into the next two days?
LINNEA STROM: Obviously I want to end up on the top of the leaderboard.  It's my first time being in this situation so I don't have any high expectations.  I just want to go out and try to play as good as I did today, but just continue to do what I can do and we will see how it is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT