NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2019
Zahid Valencia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
174 pounds   
THE MODERATOR: Zahid Valencia, two back-the-back national champions, what does that mean to you and to the program?   
ZAHID VALENCIA: It wasn't a fluke, my continued hard work and dedication to wrestling just because so passionate about it, love it.  And especially coming back from two losses this season.  So I'm just excited that I get to avenge not one but both my losses this weekend.   
 Q.  Can you just explain that celebration a little bit there?  
ZAHID VALENCIA: I think a lot of people know what he did after he beat me during the year.  He did the air guitar.  So I thought I'd do it right back and just smash it, smash it in front of his face.  Just a little fun.   
 Q.  Talk about that match in the regular season.  He dominated you.  I think he (indiscernible) you out the whole third period.  Was that ever a concern when you got to this third?  
ZAHID VALENCIA: No, I think I felt a little bit what he's feeling right now.  Being No. 1 is tough.  You have a huge target on your back, even though sometimes I like to say that I don't.  He doesn't, he just relaxes.  But it does eventually wear on you.   
And I could see it before I even stepped on the mat that he was worried, he was scared, because he's wrestling, he's been wrestling all week to not lose; I've been wrestling to win.  So being offensive in the sport of wrestling over defensive is going to win pretty much every time.   
 Q.  You've had some battles with him, obviously.  And just when you see a guy like that over and over in big situations, just do you think it's an advantage for you?  It seemed to be tonight?  
ZAHID VALENCIA: We started to learn each other's techniques, our habits that we do.  But that's what's so great about this rivalry just because we get to learn off of each other.  I beat him with one thing and then he'll beat me with the next, then I've just got to learn a new way to win.   
So we're just constantly learning new moves, new areas to work on, to be successful.   
 Q.  With Tokyo only a few months from here, are you going to jump quickly into freestyle?  And the follow-up on that, would you take a chance to go up to the Garden and maybe wrestle Dake again, a Final X rematch?  
ZAHID VALENCIA: Absolutely, I love wrestling and competing, and I love freestyle even more.  So I'm excited to get right back to it.  Started going hard on freestyle over the summer and looking to win some big things.   
 Q.  As someone who has followed you all year, you have become one of the greatest Sun Devils in ASU history, a two-time national champion.  Now, last night when I spoke to your coach, Zeke Jones, he said you're one of the all-time greats.  What does that mean to you, knowing that you have another year to get another title?  
ZAHID VALENCIA: It's awesome to hear that, and it's awesome to be able to give back to the school that I love so much.  But it's not just me doing it; it's kind of the way they're doing it for themselves; they're helping me so I can help them grow the sport and ASU as a wrestling family as a school.  So I'm just happy for everyone that's been along for the ride on my journey and supporting me throughout the way.   
 Q.  I'd like to ask you about your relationship with Mark Hall.  You guys have been Junior World teammates, you've done a lot together, but you have these celebrations at the end.  Is it a unique relationship or a rivalry?  What is it?  
ZAHID VALENCIA: I think it's just both of us just know how to have fun without getting too angry with it.  He did his celebration, yeah, at the moment it sucks.  But it's part of wrestling, growing the sport.  The fans love it.  I'm all for it.  I'm just excited to see what he tries doing next.   
 Q.  Are you going to stay down at 174?  Go up to 184 maybe?  
ZAHID VALENCIA: Something to talk with my coaches.  But I feel good at this weight.  I'm not too big.  I'm not cutting a lot of weight.  So, we'll see during the freestyle season where I'm at, and it's just something I'm just going to figure out when the time gets there.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT