NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2019
Zahid Valencia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations on the win.  Talk a little bit about the match and the emotions that went into it at the end there?   
ZAHID VALENCIA: I'm happy with the result that I had and the 11-3 win after getting beat, getting pinned by Daniel Lewis earlier in the season.  I just went out there, tried putting a bunch of points up, you know, really focusing on my conditioning, just being confident in myself.  I think that's one thing that I lacked last match, just kind of lacking my confidence going into it.  This time I just let it fly.   
 Q.  Zahid, Spencer said the last time he was pinned was 9 years old when he got pinned by Piccininni.  When was the last time you got pinned?  
ZAHID VALENCIA: Before by Daniel Lewis, I can't remember, such a long time ago.  I felt like I wasn't on my back too long so it was a quick pin, I was up in the match.  Just happens that way.  For me, it's a blessing knowing that I have to wrestle every second, don't take any breaks, don't relax so that's just what I did this time.   
 Q.  Zahid, you guys have competed, you've trained together, gone around the world together.  Talk a little bit about what you might do to make sure you are at your best because it's a heck of a challenge.  
ZAHID VALENCIA: It's been a great rivalry between us.  I'm excited to do whatever it is whenever it is to do.  The same thing is not having confidence in my conditioning, feeling that that target on my back and everything looking at my shots, defending everything I have trying to slow down my pace and I just need to condition to work on my conditioning and continue to push the pace and I don't think he will be able to hang with me the third period, so that's what I'm going to do.   
 Q.  Are you one to go back and watch film of your wrestling?  
ZAHID VALENCIA: I do watch a little film.  I don't like watching too much.  Too much scouting, just because I feel like if I go back and watch countless hours of film I get stuck on what they do instead of focusing on what I need to do.  I just let my coaches tell me, hey, he has a double A, a cradle crouch, I usually just watch most of my matches and see what I can improve on.   
 Q.  As someone who has followed you all year long after the Lewis match you picked up your training.  How has that helped you show what you wanted to do here in the NCAAs and have one last match in order to come out on top and prove you can be a defending champion for Arizona State?  
ZAHID VALENCIA: The past year I have been No. 1 so this year being No. 3 having two losses it was a little different.  I don't really like putting too much emphasis on having that target everything looking at me, but it does get to me having those guys there and just continuing to slow down my pace.  It got to me.  Just focusing on my conditioning and having Ed come down and practice with me and evolving my wrestling, not getting too complacent on what I did last year and the years before and the success I've had in the past, continuing to learn new techniques, new ways to do new moves and ways to condition myself and work harder.  So I think that's what I focused on end of the year.   
 Q.  Zahid, this year is different because your brother is not in the lineup with you.  How different has it been especially after what happened in the Lewis match and not having your brother there?  
ZAHID VALENCIA: The only difference is just the traveling part.  He's been with me every day.  I pretty much go with him in the practice room every day and he's getting really tough after his injury and stuff, so I'm excited to see him back in the lineup next year.  It does suck not having him here traveling with us, but I'm excited for the future with him.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Z.  Congratulations.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT