UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 1, 2014
Bobbie Kelsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:   Head Coach Bobbie Kelsey is here.   We will have opening comments and take questions. 
COACH KELSEY:   We were privileged to go down to the Bahamas and played in the tournament that featured the number one team in the country, and of course we drew them first, so that wasn't what we were hoping for, but, again, they're on the schedule, so you have to play them, and then we played an aggressive ECU team who pressed the whole game.   So our turnovers were really high, but I was proud of the kids in that they did persevere and just try to keep pressing throughout the whole game. 
I think we held South Carolina to the lowest point total of the season, but we didn't shoot the ball particularly well because of the turnovers.   We have not seen that kind of pressure and size, ever, I don't think so, in my time here. 
I think it was a little jarring for the kids, but to their credit they kept playing hard. 

Q.   Seems like you have a team that can play with or beat anybody but also maybe fall to the level of a team that you should beat.   How do you maintain or manage building up consistency to play at the peak level? 
COACH KELSEY:   We just try to really show them the video, show 'em what we're seeing on the bench.   Sometimes in the moment they can't understand really‑‑ they don't remember what you're saying, it's like, Coach, I thought I was‑‑ so the video helps them to see where the mistakes are happening, what they're not seeing and kind of just looking right at the person they want to pass to, instead of‑‑ you know you want to do crafty things out there to make sure you're not giving away what you want to do. 
Our guards‑‑ we don't have a whole bunch of guards that can really break defenses down, so as we're waiting to get those guards in the program, we're just going to have to work with those who are here now.   Dakota White can do it, and Nicole can do it little bit better than some of the other guards, but we do ball handling every day, we do the passing drills and the fakes, and just things that are going to help them to read the defense and not just kind of throw it up for grabs and hope one of us catches it, as opposed to the other team, so we're constantly working on that, and that's a work in progress. 

Q.   Bo down played the Coach K. versus Bo match‑up, Coach Johnson said it's going to be cool to watch them coach against each other.   Having been a basketball player and a coach, how much does that matter? 
COACH KELSEY:   It's more for the story line to me.   When I was at Stanford, you know, Tara, she was‑‑ they always featured her against this one or that one, and at the end of the day the players are playing.   No coach has ever scored from the bench.   I think it's more of a story line, in a lot of ways a good story line.   Sometimes it's the teacher and the pupil, sometimes it's the dad and the son, you know, with the Pitinos, but at the end of the day when the ball goes up, you have to match or exceed what they're doing and make sure you're taking care of the ball and doing what you're supposed to do.   But it's a good thing to have something to talk about before the game. 

Q.   What can you say about the progression of some of your younger players like freshman, Cayla McMorris? 
COACH KELSEY:   Cayla has done well.   To be thrown in the starting lineup in that Drake game, she did really well in that game.   She is a nice shooter, she is working on her ball handling to be a little bit more proficient with that, she has a quick first step, she is working on her mid‑range game.   A lot of kids it's either a layup or three. 
You know old school, us old folks, we didn't have the 3‑point line coming up, so you had to take a pull‑up.   You didn't worry about where the line was, because there was no line there.   So some of the kids we're watching now, in AAU, they don't have the a mid‑range game, and that's what we're developing with our older players.   You have to stop and pull up at any moment; otherwise you get the charges and the blocks, and things of that nature. 
We expect Cayla to develop right along, and as she gets stronger and develops her college game, she'll be a nice player for us.   She already has been even in these first couple of games of her college career.   Sorry my throat is scratchy, I was yelling in the game.   Doesn't take much for it to go nowadays, so I will probably sound like an old man by this time next year! 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Coach. 
COACH KELSEY:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT