UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCES
November 24, 2014
Bobbie Kelsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR:   Head Coach Bobbie Kelsey is here.   We will have opening comments and take committees questions.   
COACH KELSEY:   We are disappointed that we dropped two games here in the last outings, but we're searching for some answers here.   We're trying to make sure that we're taking care of that ball, which we haven't done very well, Nicole being out, because man, really hurts us, but we're morning capable.   In the Vandy game we were up by 17 so we need to learn how to get leads and hold on to 'em.   This last game we did fairly well, had some nice shooting from our‑‑ all of our players and led them in all categories except the most important one and that's, again, turnovers.   And in offensive rebounds.   Those are two areas we're going to focus on, we've a big task in playing South Carolina but I told our kids, that's how you play the game.   You don't play it on paper.   If we come out and do what we're supposed to do and take care of the ball, we have an opportunity to do something great in that game.   
   
 Q.   Is there a timeline on Nicole?   
COACH KELSEY:   Can't be soon enough for me, but we're not going to rush her back.   We need Nicole for the entire season.   You're talking about 14 points and 9 assists, so far.   And both of these games were really close.   I think Nicole would have made a huge difference.   But, again, all the other kids are more than capable and they showed that by playing really hard and giving their best effort but one player can make the difference and we all know that.   We're hoping to have her back but that's the trainer's area but she is feeling good from what I understand and she did not travel this last trip, stayed back to get a lot of treatment.   So between the staff, our trainer, Henry, bringing up the rear on her staying back this past game, hopefully shell be ready to go.   
   
 Q.   Did you know when you signed up for this tournament that South Carolina was going to be this good?   
COACH KELSEY:   No, I did not!   Dawn Staley has done a great job with building that program, took them a while as well but they got some nice pieces in there and they are competing for a national championship.   It's an opportunity for us to show how far we can come and how much we can compete against a team of their caliber.   Nothing is impossible and if we go in thinking we can't win the game we may as well not go.   Our kids aren't thinking that.   I'm sure they will have a plan for us and we'll definitely have a plan for them.   If our shots are going and we take care of the ball, anything can go happen.  
   
 Q.   Zones the last couple of games, what do you do to try to fix that here because you'll probably see more of them?   
COACH KELSEY:   Oh, we'll see more.   What we have to do is move the ball a little bit more.   Get it behind the zone a little bit.   We tend to keep it out front and that's easy for teams to play that.   
But the one or two times when we got it lower than the zone and cut down to the basket, we got a couple of layups, we got it to the short corner we got some three's and some drives.   We're going to look at how we're scoring and what the problem is, maybe we have too many people in there at one time and cutting on top of each other and not being patient with our cuts.   We don't see a lot of zones so we're not used to playing against it, but the more teams have success with that, they're going to doing it, but if we can ‑‑ there's a reason teams go into zones, they feel they can guard you player‑to‑player and that's the good news, we have made people go into zones but on the flip side of that you have to be able to get them out of the zone and that's hitting shots, getting rebounds, finishing easy be baskets.   When we can figure that out we will number a nice position.   
   
 Q.   Can your team be a good rebounding team?   Should it be?   
COACH KELSEY:   We should, we should, a lot of rebounding is aggressiveness.   We have some nice kids, but they're not always as aggressive as I would like them to be.   
But a lot of that is you have to want it that badly.   We have had some nice rebounding‑‑ Dakota at that has had six rebounds in a game, Mic Johnson 7, Jacki 5.   They're capable of getting rebounds, but you can't get 'em when you feel like it, you have to get them because you know we need that and that's going to help us then have another opportunity to score.   Can't score without the ball.   So if you don't have it, that means the other team has it and you're trying to keep them from having it more than you.   
I think once kids understand that and they really give it that max effort, then we'll be fine.   
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else?   Okay, thanks, Bobbie.   
COACH KELSEY:   Thanks.   On  
  Wisconsin!     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT