UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 10, 2014
Bobbie Kelsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:   The women's basketball team wraps Minnesota Duluth at 7 p.m. then opens the regular season on Sunday at the coal center with a 4 p.m. game.   We'll have some opening comments.   Then take questions.
COACH KELSEY:   We are pleased to have won our game last night.   Our exhibition first action of the year against a good team, good scrappy team. 
They were little, but that doesn't always bode well for us being taller.   Because some of our post players had to guard some of their players on the perimeter.   But again, we showed a lot of growth in our scoring, and our defense will catch up, but scoring is‑‑ offense is harder to get, believe it or not, than defense.   So we've been focusing a lot more on that, but we will ratchet up our defensive intensity here in practice for the next few days and going forward in our games.

Q.   The way Dakota white played yesterday, is that an indication of what you expect from her even against higher level of competition?
COACH KELSEY:   Yeah.   I hope so.   I hope she continues to do that.   Dakota has come a long way.   She got to play with her junior national team, Canadian Junior National Team this summer, and I think that gave her a lot of confidence coming back to our team.
We look to her, she plays hard.   Sometimes she does some things out there that I don't like, but again, when you're asking a kid to kind of carry the load, you're going to have to live with some of those mistakes, but she doesn't make a lot of them, and I'm just hard on her because I want her to be good, and I know what she wants to do, and that's play for her national team, and some of the stuff she does out there, they're not going to have her out there with the national team doing that.   So I want her to live out her dream of playing in an Olympic at some point, Olympic Games at some point in her maturation as a basketball player.   But she's a great kid and she does everything we ask her to do?

Q.   How did Cassie Rochel feel after her first game back in a while?
COACH KELSEY:   You know what, I think she felt like she was on cloud nine.   To go from hardly being able to walk and sit in class with the pain in her back to almost having a miraculous turnaround, with her actually‑‑ you know, she got a break‑away lay‑up yesterday.   I'm like oh my God.   I haven't seen that in two years.   So I know her parents were very excited for her.   Her teammates were excited.   She was a little nervous, brought that's to be expected having not played for so long.
But we're looking for big things.   I mean she's a senior.   This is it.   You know, and she knows that.   And as the other seniors do.   And she's going to give it her all for us. 

Q.   Looks like you've got a lot of‑‑ is it fair to say a lot of offensive options? 
COACH KELSEY:   I think so.   We've been on the kids to work on their shot, you know.   A lot of times when you're driving in there and the defense collapses on top of you, you gotta be able to kick it out.   And we gotta make people pay for helping.   I mean they should stop the ball.   That's what they're supposed to do.   But I know other teams make us pay when we over help, because you'd rather give up a contested shot than a lay‑up.   So that's what we're trying to do.   Every team teaches that.   Every coach teaches help and recover.   But I'm on our kids all the time, if you cannot shoot, you cannot be out there.   And that's a good thing, because you're scoring, and everybody wants to score. 
But if you're not a threat, it's like playing 4 on 5 on the offensive end.   So you better be a great defender or something else, because if you can't do other things really, really well.   If you can't score, you just can't be out there. 
So we stress that a lot, and Nicole's done really well with her scoring.   I mean she looked dynamite out there, and Ma Jelena stepped up and did some nice things.   We just had, I think six people in double figures, so that was nice to see.   But we know what's coming.   No disrespect to River Falls, but we know what's coming, and may not be as easy the next time. 
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else for coach? 
COACH KELSEY:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT