UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2014
Bobbie Kelsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  COACH KELSEY:   Wow, we're back again.   Seemed like yesterday we were wrapping things up from last year.   But a new year, a new level of excitement for our kids.   
Obviously with seniors graduating and new ones coming in, this is a fresh opportunity for everyone to get into the rotation, more playing time, whatever they want to do, according to how hard they worked over the summer.   
And our kids have worked extremely hard over the summer, and they're ready to, some more than others, to get out there with our veterans, they're very ready and then our new ones are getting there.   
So we're very excited for them.   And looking forward to a great year.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions?   
   
 Q.   As you start year four, does the urgency get any greater with each year?  
COACH KELSEY:   I mean, you always have the expectation of doing better than you did before.   But that's not always in my hands, with injuries and different things that transpired throughout the year and trying to build a program again, I'll say the same thing I've been saying.   
It takes a little time.   And sometimes when you're not in the trenches you don't quite get that.   But that's your job to ask me these questions.   But I'm always excited and the kids are, too, and expected to do well.  
   
 Q.   How might the offense look a little bit different this year?   You've got Wurtz and Paige who are gone, who launched a significant number of 3‑pointers, but they didn't make a lot of 3‑pointers.   How are things going to be different with their departure just offensively what you're trying to do?  
COACH KELSEY:   We're trying to get more people touches with the ball and cutting more, moving without the ball.   I think we kind of were stagnant.   That's probably why they had to take that many 3s.   
And I'm sure with Taylor's back, that didn't help her.   She never recovered fully from that.   We all know from her time here she was a great shooter.   But that set her back.   And Morgan was not as consistent as she probably wanted to be.   
And a lot of it last year, because we were on the ropes a lot, they had to force up making shots that they would not have taken.   So we're looking to get more cuts to the rim, get more layup opportunities, and I think you'll be pleasantly surprised at how we get that this year.   But I can't tell all the secrets.  
   
 Q.   Cassie coming back, how does she look, and if she's able to play significant, how does that affect Michala and their roles and what's expected of Michala?  
COACH KELSEY:   Mick, I have a lot of Caylas and Michala.   With Cassie coming back, she's so long in there and tall and even with her minor setback with her nagging back injury, she's still able to do a lot of things in and around the basket, where she's probably most effective.   But she's been working on her shot, too.   Just at that high post area, just trying to stretch the defense a little bit and get that defender coming out at her instead of always pounding at the basket, because‑‑ we don't want that to aggravate her body at all.   
But her and Mick are a good 1‑2 punch, because Mickie can be on the perimeter a little bit.   I think Mick is better coming in to full step, because she has to play all these big girls that a little bit heavier in weight than she is, but she uses her quickness and so both of them have really worked on their shots and that's going to allow them to take one or two dribbles and get a layup because you have to respect the shot.   They're only going to complement each other.  
How much she plays, that depends on how she feels.   We're not going to have her practicing a whole, whole bunch, because we're trying to maximize her health and make sure that she's able to compete in the games.  
   
 Q.   The players that were down at Chicago last week hinted that your pace overall may be faster.   How much of that is a reflection of the personnel and how much of that is fourth year and these are the players that you've recruited to fit that style?  
COACH KELSEY:   It's a little bit of both.   A little bit of all of that.   I think we've wanted to play this way.   But again sometimes situations and circumstances don't allow you.   
Last year, because we had some injuries, then you have to save the ones that can play, can't wear them out.   So we're really being mindful of the minutes.   I'm trying to get the minutes down and faster pace doesn't mean you can't play that way if you have limited bodies.   But they have to be in shape.   If they're in shape and they're not injured and strong enough to continue with the pace that we want to play, we'll continue to do that.  
   
 Q.   What area needs to be improved more first?   The assists, number of assists you guys get per game or cutting the turnovers down?   Because in the three years you've been here, the team has yet to have more assists than turnovers.   I'm curious, what's more of a concern for you at this point?   
COACH KELSEY:   Well, obviously with turnovers you're giving the other team the ball.   And assists are always leading to baskets.   You can't get a basket without an assist.   Somebody's gotta pass you the ball.   For the most part you're getting an assist.   
I think the turnovers are a little more concerning.   Taking care of the ball, not forcing it up, not doing too much.   And again, because of a lot of our games are a little closer and you're trying to get that shot and trying to maybe make the play and not looking for the extra person, you know, there were times when we were watching tape and I'm like she's somebody else's‑‑ you gotta give the ball up.   
I don't know how you really do it other than showing them.   We know you're not selfish, but that looked selfish because someone else is open.   We're going to shore up those things and I know this group is ready and willing to give the ball up and make sure that we're getting a good shot as opposed to a shot.  
   
 Q.   Cayla McMorris, is the most heralded recruit you've brought in this year.   And what sort of transition do you see her making?   How quickly do you see her making the step up and being able to contribute?  
COACH KELSEY:   Cayla is‑‑ she's definitely a player that was highly recruited.   Top 100 recruit.   And for her to come to a program that's not quite there yet, considering she had offers from others that have shown the tradition in women's basketball in going to the NCAA tournament and really winning at the highest level, it says a lot about Kayla, that she's not a primadonna, not to say those kids that do that are, but she was willing and able to believe in what we were doing and she knows that she was going to‑‑ I told her, we're recruiting you to play, not to come and stand in line or wait your turn, so to speak.   And she will play.   And she can play.   
She has a quick first step.   Heady kid.   Aggressive.   She is just kind of figuring out what are good shots for her.   You'll live with that until she can figure it out because she's taking the ball to the basket and really trying to make something happen.   
And she's going to complement Dakota and Nicole well, Tessa and Bam.   AnnMarie, all of our guards.   She's making everybody better.  
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT