UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 24, 2014
Bobbie Kelsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:   The women's basketball team closes out the regular season on Sunday by hosting Northwestern at the Kohl Center at 1:00 p.m.   Badgers will honor their three seniors‑‑ Daria Kryuchkova, Morgan Paige, and Taylor Wurtz‑‑ following the game. 
Coach Bobbie Kelsey is here.   We'll have some opening comments and take questions. 
COACH KELSEY:   We played a tough Purdue team last night.   They were really focused on what they wanted to do out there.   We tried to take Courtney Moses, their leading scorer and one of the best scorers in the conference, out of the game.   So we held her down, but then some other folks got loose.   We made a little run after being down by 20.   I think we got it to with 8‑‑ to within 8 points, and then they went on another run.   So we didn't have that punch back. 
But, again, same story this week.   The kids are playing hard, just missing some bunnies in there and some easy shots that we really need to finish around the basket. 
So I'll take any questions.

Q.   Could you just reflect on Taylor and Morgan's careers.   It seems like especially Morgan has really developed into a scorer where early on that didn't seem like to be her style of play. 
COACH KELSEY:   Well, you know, I didn't coach them their whole careers, so I'm not sure.   I know they were quite different when we came in from what I understood about especially Morgan's game.   She wasn't starting that much or playing that much her first year in the program. 
But she has developed into a great scorer, and there were times where she‑‑ I mean, she could get 30 points like that.   She struggled here as of late, but we do depend on Morgan to create some offense for us off the dribble and with her 3‑point shot.   She just hadn't‑‑ she hadn't been as consistent as maybe she would like to have been. 
But Taylor, on the other hand, with the back injury, I think that's really slowed her game down a lot.   She doesn't have that lift that she had my first year here.   There was a time when you couldn't leave Taylor open; now people are kind of off of her, and she's not hitting her shot like she did before. 
But both of those kids have been great for our program.   And sad to see them go, but, you know, as they come, they go.   They have to graduate at some point.   So I know they're going to go on to do great things with their lives.   And if they want to play overseas, I'm sure that's an opportunity for them. 
But they've got to finish out strong for our team here in this last game at the Kohl Center on next Sunday. 
Sorry, my voice is always shot after these games.

Q.   Kind of piggy‑backing off of what you just said, how important is it to get a win for these seniors with the way the season is going? 
COACH KELSEY:   It's very important.   You don't want to limp out.   You want to go out strong.   We've been close, but it just hasn't happened for us for whatever reason.   We're all trying.   It just hasn't materialized. 
But you always want to win your last game at your home court, I mean, whether it be you have another one after that.   We just so happen to have the last one here.   That's not always the case.   Sometimes you have to go on the road, and it's somebody else's Senior Night. 
So it's nice to have that game where they can just lay it all out on the line and play as loose and as free and relaxed as they can play without pressing.   We've lost six games, so obviously those two, they're feeling it, and Daria too, but she hasn't played that much.   They're feeling it the most. 
And you do want to win your last game, if possible.   That's always the case.   With any senior.   I don't know of any senior that doesn't want to.   You always get that. 
So we're going to work hard for them to get that win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT