JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2012
Lee Janzen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A lot of good things out there for you today. 
LEE JANZEN:   I was getting it around okay.   I didn't drive the ball the way I wanted to with my driver, so I need to work on that.   It certainly cost me on the last hole there. 
So if I drive the ball better‑‑ my iron is good enough and my wedge game is in good shape and my chipping and I've been putting well lately, so if I can drive the ball better I will at least give myself a chance to get the ball near the hole.

Q.   How does the course play this morning?
LEE JANZEN:   Hardly any wind at all and the greens are fairly soft.   There was a couple that were firmer, but nothing too severe.   There is not much wind so you're not going to get fooled on how far you're hitting it. 
As the day warmed up, the ball started going a little further.   Tomorrow afternoon it'll be warm right from the start, so we'll have to adjust to hitting the ball further, but I don't think we'll have any problem doing that. 
I expect to see a lot low scores.

Q.   What do you think you could have shot if your driver was working better for you?
LEE JANZEN:   51 or 2.

Q.   Is that right?   That's incredible. 
LEE JANZEN:   I don't know.   Coulda, woulda, shoulda.   23s year of that.   You can drive yourself crazy thinking about what you could have done.   I know I could've done better than that on the last hole, but I did make some putts here and there.   Hit some good putts that didn't go in, too.
It's just next shot.   That's all that matters.   Doesn't matter what happens.

Q.   You've had an excellent career if you were to retire today.   How much does it still intensely matter and does trying to win matter?
LEE JANZEN:   Well, it only matters to me.   I know there are a lot people that have opinions about every player, whatever.   Ultimately, if I don't really care what anybody thinks about me whether I had a great career or didn't have a great career or whatever, it's a little easier to go out and play.
If I'm worried about what people think about my career or me or my standing, then I won't enjoy it as much.   It's taken a while to figure that out.   I play because I like to play, and this is what I do.   I'm a golfer.   I might not get to play golf the rest of my life.   Next week might be my last week.   I don't know. 
It's going to end some day.   I might be 70 or it might be next week.   So I'm going to enjoy it and do my best.   Sometimes I don't like my best and I know I can do better, but I'm going to keep striving to do the best I can.

Q.   Just on the state of your game, what do you feel about it right now?
LEE JANZEN:   I feel pretty good.   It's frustrating not to shoot good scores every day out there, but I keep shooting enough good scores each week now that at least I feel more confident that I can do it four days in a row ‑‑ more than I did before. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT