RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2011
Lee Janzen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How do you feel about your round today?   
 LEE JANZEN: Well, the front nine was really, you know, two days one off the lead is really a good place to be. I've been playing a lot of good golf over the two days, but I made some mistakes today that I wish I hadn't made. But I'm sure everybody in the field could say that.   
 From the middle of the fairway, I shouldn't be missing greens and also shortside. But I've tried to be really smart with all my putts. You know, execution makes every game plan look really good. If you're doing what you're trying to do, everything looks great, and that's really all that matters.   
 It was fun to get my name on the leaderboard and look up there and be playing and trying to get in the lead. That was good. It's good to hole some putts and hit some good drives and hit some fairways.   
 So everything's pretty good. Hopefully I can just tidy up a little bit, and continue doing what I'm doing.  
  
  Q. We've heard lots of comments this week that this set-up is similar to what the U.S. Open used to be like. Do you think that's a fair analogy?   
 LEE JANZEN: Yeah, because if your ball rolls four feet off the fairway, you might have the worst lie possible. Lot of times that's what happens with the U.S. Open because the sprinkler systems are generally down the middle of the fairway, so that's where they reach. Of course they've added sprinklers since then so they could go off anywhere now, and they have this year.   
 But a lot of times the thickest rough on the course is the rough closest to the fairway. Your ball rolls barely out of the fairway, and you have no shot. If you hit it just on the other side of the ropes and you have a trampled line, you can knock it on the greens.   
 What the U.S. Open has tried to do now is extend that heavy rough out further so the guy that hits the really bad shot doesn't have that opportunity anymore. So I don't think you've heard any complaints about the U.S. Open set-up since '06, I guess. And 5 over par and 6 over par has won.  
  
  Q. I think you said on Tuesday that you'd take even par and go home. Now you're in at 3-under.   
 LEE JANZEN: Even par would be a good tournament, but it won't win. So, yeah, I was 3-over par after 10 holes and hear I sit at 3-under, so I had to play a lot of good golf to get it to 5-under. Made a few birdies and I've driven the ball on the fairway a lot.  
  
  Q. Can you draw on some good memories. Like you mentioned, you've won two U.S. Opens and the set-up?   
 LEE JANZEN: Yeah, I hit good shots on tough course before when they mattered. So that's what I got to remember. Golfers beat themselves up. You know, we're all optimistic about the future and pessimistic about the present. So, you know, we've got to just always think about the good things.  
  
  Q. You've mentioned that it was fun. Just when you see a golf course like this that you mow it's going to be a mental challenge. Does that kind of energize you?   
 LEE JANZEN: I think it's a mental challenge every week for me. You know, 4-under par leading is not low at all. So if I shot 3-under par another week, I might make the cut or I'd barely make the cut and could have played similar. But it's unlikely. I think the weekly set-up we play on TOUR probably would have -- I hit enough good shots and holed enough putts that I could be 10 or 11-under par, but that might not be where it is right now.   
 So the toughness of the course I think is great, especially if you have good experience on it.  
  
  Q. I was wondering if you think that favors the veterans? The guy like Goydos is playing well.   
 LEE JANZEN: He never misses a fairway.  
  
  Q. McCarron went low today.   
 LEE JANZEN: Yeah, those guys, you know, Scott's similar to where I've been. You know, we used to win a tournament here or there and contend and had to go through a tough stretch. I've seen him play over the last couple of years playing with him, I see that his game's improving. So it's not a total surprise that he shoots a good score.   
 And Goydos always shoots the pair way. He's never out of the fairway. And Jerry Kelly is a very good competitor. He always battles.   
 Geoff Ogilvy I saw his name up there one time. And Charl Schwartzel, a major winner. I think that we hate hitting out of the high rough, but you've got to look at what the tournament's trying to accomplish. They want the Canadian Open to mean something, and hopefully the leaderboard looks like the leaderboard they want.  
  
  Q. Is it patience and experience? Do you have to have a lot of patience out there?   
 LEE JANZEN: Yeah, you have to have patience. Perseverance is even more important just because you have you can hit good shots and things don't turn out and they bogey. That can happen anywhere, but especially when the rough is tough, greens are small. You make a mistake on the wrong side, and you've really left yourself no option. I did that to myself yesterday. I recovered pretty well over the two days. When I was in trouble, I recovered well.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT