U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 30, 2018
Lee Janzen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Front nine there you got into a bit of a roll there after I guess you bogeyed three of the first six or so.  But 7, 8, 9 there you started getting going.  What happened?  
LEE JANZEN: It was frustrating the first six holes, I was in the dead center of the fairway with a pitching wedge, a 8-iron and a sand wedge and bogeyed those three holes.  Which the course is hard enough as it is, I don't need to give away any shots.  And to have a short iron in your hand you got to be thinking that you can get the ball somewhat near the hole and have a chance at birdie and I was making bogey.  But I've been through that before, everybody has, you just have to hit the next shot as good as you can and go from there.  And really just making a birdie on 7 turned my round around.  It had been about 48 hours since I made a birdie, or 27 holes, far too long, but it felt good to make one.  And then I hit a good iron shot on the next hole, made another birdie.  And then we had the par-5 reachable in two and had an eagle putt.  And then I battled on the back nine and made a couple great pars.   
 Q.  Bogey-free the last 12 though, is that the kind of momentum you feel like you can carry from round to round, you can take into the last day?  
LEE JANZEN: Well, yeah, I think we're all hopeful we can do that sort of thing, but it really comes down to the first tee shot tomorrow.  If I hit a good tee shot, that will be a great start.  And then from there try and hit a good shot and give myself a chance at a putt.  You got -- with a good drive on 1 and then 2 and then 3 you got some birdie holes in the early part of the round, so if you can get under par, that helps the momentum.  And then 5, 6, 7, are also -- if you drive the ball well you can hit the ball close.  So the first, the front nine you can be 4-, 5-under par if things go great and you carry that momentum on from there and that's probably what it will take for me.  I'm pretty far back, but at least I moved forward a little bit.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT