ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 23, 2010
Alex Cejka
Lee Janzen
Chris Riley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. First group out. 7:00 a.m. in the morning, and they go 66, 66, 67. I'll start with Alex. Not a bad threesome there start having to get up at 4:45 in the morning.   
 ALEX CEJKA: It was quite early, but I like the early tee times. I think we had a really two good days. We played well all two days. Especially today we made a lot of putts, and it's nice when you see the balls going in the hole.  
  
  Q. Lee Janzen, was it you guys were feeding off each other or was it that early that you said let's not talk for the first five holes because none of our coffee has kicked in yet?   
 LEE JANZEN: It was so early, nobody was following us. We would have had a lot lower score if people would have come out (laughing).  
  
  Q. Are you saying no one showed up until 9:00?   
 LEE JANZEN: Yeah, even later. Actually I think we made more birdies when the wind kicked up. But we were fortunate on the first nine holes, very light if any wind at all and perfect greens for nine holes. So we were fortunate in that way.   
 But, yeah, it was tough to get the tee today. We kept always kept making birdies. I was trying to get the tee, but I don't think I had the tee very often. I had a good score.  
  
  Q. Chris, you started the furthest back there. Was it feeding off everybody else or was it what Lee said? When the wind kicked up you played more conservative and the putts started to fall or did everyone just start hitting it closer to the hole?   
 CHRIS RILEY: Like Lee said, on the front nine there was no wind so it was pretty easy out there actually with fresh greens. We all just played and had a good time. We all played well. At least I had a good time. I don't know if these guys did.   
 But it was really definitely a 5:00 o'clock wake-up call, you don't feel like playing golf that early, but we had a good day.  
  
  Q. That is the one thing, when you get a wake-up call that early, no matter who you're playing with, you get to the first tee and you go I hate you and you?  
 CHRIS RILEY: That's right.  
  
  Q. But by the back nine you're like, hey, we're all friends now?  
 LEE JANZEN: Well, the person that has to deliver the wake-up call is never cheery at the other end. What do you want?   
  
  Q. I know they're not supposed to play threesomes tomorrow, Alex, but I'm thinking you guys might request one another?   
 ALEX CEJKA: Yeah, it would be nice, but you never know. It's going to be a later tee time at least. So I don't know if they play twosome or threesome, but we were very close.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT