VERIZON HERITAGE
April 17, 2009
Lee Janzen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Buying a lot of drinks tonight? Hole-in-one on 17, walk us through that beautiful shot. 
 LEE JANZEN: First of all, if I was president of the United States, I'd change that hole-in-one business. You made a hole-in-one, you should be getting the drinks. That's the worst deal.

 Q. I bet you are going to get one or two tonight. 
 LEE JANZEN: Yeah, well, maybe not. We'll wait until Sunday night when the tournament is over.

 Q. Walk us through that shot. 
 LEE JANZEN: It was playing straight downwind and the pin is on the west side of the green. There's not a lot of green, and it's not sloping toward you so it's a very difficult shot. I just told my caddie, Dan, I said, let's just aim at the G in "The Golf Channel" sign behind the green and use what little slope there is, and just hope to get a 15, 20-footer, because there's no chance of getting anywhere near the hole if you hit at it. Then I thought, well, I might as well get all the way on the right-hand side of the tee, and I hit it as nice as I wanted to get it, landed the distance I wanted it to go. So I figured if it landed soft, I had about a 15-footer of some sort. 
 It was just drawing a little bit, bounced right towards the hole and when somebody said "go in," I was just waiting for the reaction up on the green from the crowd and it went on.

 Q. You used "The Golf Channel" logo as a target? I still think you should buy us drinks. Let's talk about, you are in contention for the weekend. What's your mindset heading into the last 36?
 LEE JANZEN: Well, whatever little things I'm not doing well, work on those. And all the things I am doing well, keep doing those. And just take it one shot at a time and enjoy being out here, enjoy the round. It's a very charming golf course. So getting upset about one shot here or there is not going to do any good. There are mistakes that happen, bogeys and plenty of birdies and good shots, too. You have to persevere, realize there's going to be adversity, and just keep after it. 

 Q. Lee, that was quite a round, especially with that hole-in-one on 17. 
 LEE JANZEN: Yeah, that certainly helps your score, anytime. And I battled all day. It was a challenge out there to try to get under par. It was tough to keep the ball on the green, much less near the hole. I just battled all day, just one shot at a time, just trying to make par, go to the next hole and do my best.
 Unfortunately I bogeyed the last hole, didn't want to play the hole I wanted to. But the one on 17 certainly makes up for that.

 Q. You feel like you're in contention now? You're only two shots back?
 LEE JANZEN: Well, that's good. There's 36 holes to go, and regardless if I was 2, 3, 4, 5 back, just try to do my best. I'm pretty pleased with the way I played for two days and the way I've handled things out there. I haven't played perfect by any means, but I'm working on it and trying to get better. 

 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT