84 LUMBER CLASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA
September 18, 2003
Lee Janzen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







DAVE SENKO:  Lee, why don't you give us a few comments on your round, a 5-under, 67. 
LEE JANZEN:   After about six holes I looked over at the scoreboard, I saw Schwarzrock, I was thinking I've got to start making some birdies here because everybody else seems to be doing that.  Sometimes when you put that kind of pressure on yourself you don't make any birdies. 
I started on 10.  12, I hit a 7-iron up to the pin about 35 feet and 3-putted. 
I birdied 3 with a 3-wood and sand wedge and a 12-foot putt. 
16, I hit a driver and a 6-iron and chipped it down to four feet and made the putt for birdie.
17, I hit a 6-iron, three feet. 
2, a hit a driver, 9-iron three feet right of the hole.
4, I hit a driver and sand wedge two feet.
6, I hit driver, pitching wedge and made a 15-footer. 
If you've been out on the course, there's two bunkers, one way below, I hit just on top, rolled into the rough, couldn't role it on to the green and chipped it in.  I chipped it in from 18 feet. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
LEE JANZEN:   It's dried out quite a bit since Tuesday but it's still soft.  You can stop the ball very quickly.  The greens have so much undulation, there's only so many places you can put the pins and those are in the lower spots.  If you hit a good shot, it goes towards the hole.  So you are going to see a lot of birdies, and if you don't hit in near the pin you have a tough putt.  So you are probably going to see some 3-putts, too.  Like the course at Sawgrass, Davis this year, you hit good shots, you get near the hole; and if not, it's very difficult to get it near the hole.

Q.  What's a day of rain going to do? 
LEE JANZEN:   I guess it will be pretty wet.  I don't know how much rain the course can take because I don't have any past history or knowledge of it.  I know it's dried out quite a bit in two days.  I think it would be optimistic if we play tomorrow.  The best of optimism, we get an inch of rain, we don't play tomorrow and we may Saturday.  But if we get eight to ten inches we might not be able to play Saturday, either.  It  would be difficult.  They have a lot of bunkers to repair.  There will be a lot of wet spots in the fairway and I don't know if it will be dry enough. 

Q.  Inaudible?
LEE JANZEN:   If the greens were really firm like a normal, weekly setup, I think  -- I think on Sunday they are going to be pretty hard.  The more we play, more where we are not supposed to be and we may play a little more conservative by Sunday with these pins.  There are some pin placements they are going to have to use, that it's going to be very difficult.  You don't want to miss on these greens.  It's going to be very difficult to get up-and-down.  You can use slope to your advantage all the way around the course. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
LEE JANZEN:   If you play well -- get home before Monday --

Q.  In North Carolina --
LEE JANZEN:   I'm from Charlotte, but by Monday it will be long gone.  It will be long gone by then anyway.  There could be some damage.  I've never seen hurricane from damage up close but this doesn't seem to be a strong hurricane. 

Q.  Hugo in '89, I'm telling you, it just wiped out some golf courses.
LEE JANZEN:   Yeah, it's amazing.  Hurricane Andrew, it did some damage. 

Q.  Inaudible?
LEE JANZEN:   Yeah, and then I played very well at Memphis.  I mean, all three days, the first few days I played very well, could have been better and Sunday I went out  -- for the first 13 holes and had the lead and everything felt great.  Even though I didn't win, I still expected to play getter golf when I played since then.  And it's just really been  -- inaudible -- played poorly and missed the cut by a shot. 

Q.  Inaudible?
LEE JANZEN:   You've got to make more money.  It's top-heavy.  The percentages are the same, but a guy that finishes in the top 5 is going to make a ton more money than a guy who finishes 12th or 13th.  The gap is stretched a little bit.  For a Tour School guy, he has to finish in the top 5 a couple of times to keep his card.  That's pretty tough when you have not played any of these courses and all of these guys have played a number of times.
We have a few new courses over the last  -- just had one at Boston and this week. 

Q.  Increased skill level. 
LEE JANZEN:   Skill has increased.  I can't pick out exactly how hard it is or how much harder it is.  I know it is tougher and it will be even tougher 20 years from now, too.  I do think it's tougher to win, but still, maybe ten years ago you could have an average day and still win a tournament.  Now you have to play pretty great four days in a row.  You see Ben Curtis and Shaun Micheel win a major, it's still possible that anybody can win a tournament out here at any time. 




End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT