PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2003
Lee Janzen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LEE JANZEN:   I felt something about 4:22, is that when it happened?  Just taking a 
wild shot in the dark. 

We had no idea about the power outage out there. 


Q.  When did you find out? 

LEE JANZEN:   When we walked in the scorer's tent and I couldn't see. 


Q.  Who do you think this course favors?

LEE JANZEN:   I think it favors a guy that's his best.  A guy who is wild off the tee 
normally will probably be frustrated here.  And guys that you normally see that are 
consistent, stay out of trouble and have good short games and manage their games 
well will probably play well here.  Jim Furyk and Mike Weir are two people that you 
think of, and they are the two people that have won all the majors so far this year, 
too. 


Q.  Did you miss any fairways? 

LEE JANZEN:   I missed plenty.  I was in the first cut a couple of times.  I probably hit 
about half the fairways.  I guess I missed it in the right spots. 

I hit it wide of the fairway on 16.  I hit it in the first cut on 17.  4 was a par 5 and I 
couldn't reach it, anyway, but I had to get up-and-down.  I missed it, fortunately, in 
the spots that I was able to recover everything.


Q.  What happened on 18?

LEE JANZEN:   I hit a great drive right in the middle of the fairway.  I hit a 5-iron.  The 
wind had been blowing out of the west, and for some reason it, was a northwest wind 
on that hole and I didn't catch it before I hit.  And I hit what I thought was a perfect 
iron shot.  My caddie thought I hit it over the green, and I thought it came up short.  
We were stunned that wasn't on the green and then looking at it as a sure bogey, the 
way my putt was going  -- it hit the back of the hole and dropped in. 


Q.  From how far?

LEE JANZEN:   Off the back of the green, so it had to be 20 feet.  I was very fortunate.  
I made a par, what looked like almost was going to turn into a 6. 


Q.  (Inaudible)?

LEE JANZEN:   Absolutely.  Anything under par today is a good job done. 


Q.  What was it that you did well today?

LEE JANZEN:   I guess what I did today, the most positive thing I did today, I putted 
very well.  I hit plenty of bad shots, but I went on to the next shot and did my best on 
the next shot. 


Q.  Do you get the sense that tomorrow morning you might be able to take 
advantage of some cooler conditions? 

LEE JANZEN:   The greens are smoother and they are drying out as the day goes on, so 
I think tomorrow the same thing happens.  The scores will be better in the morning 
than they will this afternoon.  Or they could be the same; hard tomorrow morning and 
even more hard in the afternoon. 

In a major, you grind it out, do your best, take your lumps and try and recover, and 
sometimes even par is a great score in majors. 


Q.  What was more surprising, Mickelson's reemergence or Woods finishing 4-
over?

LEE JANZEN:  Phil is a fine player.  Even if he is not on top of his game, you can look at 
any fine player and they can muster up whatever it takes just to play well when it 
counts.  Tom Watson has been a great player for 30 years.  There's up-and-downs for 
everybody, and I certainly would not count Tiger Woods out of it after 4-over, either. 


Q.  How did you play 17?

LEE JANZEN:   I hit a good drive up the left side and hit a rescue club in the front right 
bunker and blasted out to about ten feet and missed it. 


Q.  Is it the most intimidating hole out here? 

LEE JANZEN:   That's probably the toughest driving hole, because you know if you 
miss the fairway there, there's absolutely no chance in the world of hitting the green.  
Most of the holes, you can't hit the green, but you can at least advance it up near the 
green.  That one, you are probably hitting out to where you have 130-yard shot in.  If 
you hit it in the fairway, you hit it in the green, that's got to be the toughest hole on 
the course.  Fortunately, it's not so tough that you make a huge number by just barely 
missing a shot. 


Q.  How are you feeling heading into the next round?

LEE JANZEN:   Excited.  If I can go out and play well tomorrow, then I'll be in great 
shape for the weekend. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT