LEGENDS RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 6, 2009
Rich Barcelo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome Rich Barcelo into the media center. I'm thinking before the round began you would have taken a 68 at the end of the day.
 RICH BARCELO: The conditions were extremely difficult when we started. The wind was blowing when I got here at 7:30 this morning. And I knew the course was going to play difficult. And we were anticipating the winds to actually increase throughout the day. However, they've actually decreased. So that allowed us to take advantage of the back nine. And we got 3-under on the back nine. So that was a good way to take advantage of the wind dying down.
 THE MODERATOR: Nothing wrong with being bogey-free, too.
 RICH BARCELO: That always helps. It was a solid day. We played some smart golf. We executed our game plan. We pulled the right clubs and hit some good shots.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.

 Q. You've been out here four or five times now. How does the wind figure? Is it the worst you've seen?
 RICH BARCELO: I think the final round of '07 was pretty darned difficult. So you never know what you're going to get here. You anticipate the wind blowing here in Northern Nevada. You just don't know how strong. 
 So I kind of just anticipate making my game plan that we are going to have wind. And typically it comes out of the same direction of the southwest or the west. But today it was really swirly. We had a lot of northerly winds today. But it made things difficult.

 Q. You mentioned the wind a couple weeks back. Are you coming here with any more confidence, perhaps, than in years past or kind of evaluate where you were entering this tournament, and did that contribute at all to how things went today?
 RICH BARCELO: I feel very confident in my golf game right now. I put in a lot of years of hard work. And with some swing changes and just some more belief in myself and breaking through a couple of weeks going on the Nationwide Tour really helped. So I feel great.

 Q. You used the phrase "we" a couple times there. Do you rely a lot on your caddie in this situation?
 RICH BARCELO: I'm leaning heavy on my caddie this week. Mr. Jim Bouserman is looping for me this week. He's a member here. And he's kind enough to offer his services for me. And he's logged quite a few rounds here. He's seen a lot of shots and putts. And we did a great job today, I believe. And my thanks to him.
 When I say "we," it's a whole team. It's not just me and Jimmy out there. It's my family, my sponsor, my coaches. It's really a team effort. And it's an individual sport, but everybody out here has a team. So I'd like to acknowledge all those people that have helped.

 Q. Was your team out today?
 RICH BARCELO: Out in full force.

 Q. In jackets?
 RICH BARCELO: In jackets, yeah. It was a lot of fun having friends and family and Mr. Whittemore is my sponsor and his sons. They've supported me for the last 10 years. And it's great to have them out.

 Q. If you would please go over your four birdies. 
 RICH BARCELO: The four birdies started on No. 4, the par-5, hit a drive up the right-hand side. Hit a 3 hybrid onto the front of the green and 2-putted for birdie. 
 No. 14, we hit a 2 hybrid off the tee up the left side in the fairway. And I had a perfect number for a sand wedge and hit a beautiful sand wedge in there to about five feet and made that one. 
 The next hole, we hit a 3-wood off the tee. And, it's funny, we had 140 yards with all the math that we did. And it was a perfect 9-iron. But the wind had just picked up. And Jimmy and I were looking at each saying it's a perfect wedge right now. Grabbed the wedge. Hit a good shot in there to about six, seven feet above the hole, and made that one. And 18, hit a beautiful 3-wood off the tee and had a nice full shot in. And that pin is really accessible with the softness. 
 We flew it to the back fringe and sucked it back to about five feet and made that one. It was a good ball-striking day. I didn't make any 20-footers, 25-footers. All my birdies were in there pretty tight.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT