MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 13, 2016
Tyler O'Connor
Demetrious Cox
Riley Bullough
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Guys, all three of you were freshmen on the team last time that you played Notre Dame, and hindsight might be 20/20, but that loss was your only loss on the season that could have prevented you from playing in the national title game.  In talking to the younger guys this week, how have you discussed how that game went and how important this rivalry is to all of you?
RILEY BULLOUGH: Yeah, you know, I try to tell them this is a huge game.  I think they sort of understand it, but they don't really fully understand the environment that we're going to be in.  And I remember looking back at that game, Notre Dame was a physical, fast, violent team.  Kind of the same things that we pride ourselves on, so we understand that.  We need to do those things and we need to play our best football game to go down there and get a win.
DEMETRIOUS COX: Got to come out quick, be a man, make plays.  It's going to be a man's game down there.  I'm sure they're ready to play.  We've got to be ready to step up and play a great team.
TYLER O'CONNOR: Yeah, I think the biggest thing you take from that is people will have to grow up quick.  There are a lot of young guys that will play a huge role in this game.  Even if it takes them a few plays initially, they've got to grow up fast.  It's an intense atmosphere, especially a night game there, whether it's the band staring you down when you're walking out there or the fans or whatever it is, it's going to be intense.  But we have to go out and have confidence and everybody have each other's back.  It's the biggest thing we can take from the last time we were there.
Q. Riley, a lot of people don't know because they know your Michigan State heritage, but you have a long lineage with Notre Dame as well.  So for you, having grown up both sides of this, does it make it even extra special for you?
RILEY BULLOUGH: Yeah, I think it definitely does.  Like you said, growing up, we'd go to Notre Dame games and the next week come to a Michigan State game.  So we're always traveling.  But it was a great time going to those games.
Yeah, my grandpa has a huge part over there.  My mom went there.  My uncle played there.  So to be able to go down there and get a win against them in that environment, it means so much to the team.  But I think for me it would especially mean a lot.
Q. Tyler, for you, going on the attack is important for the Michigan State offense this week.  You're just not going to be able to go down and run it and get out with a 3-0 win.  You like that because you're an attacking quarterback.  Do you salivate a little more knowing that you're going to have to go on the attack?
TYLER O'CONNOR: Yeah, after having the game plan with me and Coach Warner last night, we have a lot of opportunities to make a lot of plays.  It's important for us to get the ball in our playmakers hands and we'll do that early and often, I guess, is what Coach Warner says.  We'll have them on their heels and kind of keep attacking because we know we're going to have to score points.
Our defense, we have great confidence in our defense.  But it's our job to keep our defense off the field and it's our job to score points.  So, yeah, we're definitely excited about this opportunity.
Q. Tyler, looking back at the game last year at Ohio State, what kind of things did you take from playing in that big- game environment going into this?  And what have you heard from Kirk or Connor about what to expect at Notre Dame Stadium?
TYLER O'CONNOR: I haven't personally heard from either of them yet.  But looking back at that Ohio State game, we played in front of the biggest cloud I think in the horseshoes history, and looking at that defense and offense, we played against some of the top guys.  I don't know how many guys got drafted on that defense.  But essentially that we can go out there and do anything that we decide to do and what we put our minds to.  As long as we go as one.  That's what that offense did that day in the horseshoe last year.
So when we have that chemistry and mindset that we're not going to be defeated and we're not going to be stopped, we do feel unstoppable, and I think we showed that last year.  So we'll have to put up more points than we did.  Obviously, the weather wasn't great last year.  But when we have that mindset that we had last year, we're a pretty unstoppable offense, we feel.
Q. Tyler, with a name like O'Connor, what are your thoughts going into the game against the Irish?  And how have you regarded them over the years?
TYLER O'CONNOR: Growing up, if any fan, I was a Notre Dame fan.  But that's obviously faded a long, long time ago.  It's a rich tradition, it's great history over at Notre Dame.  I have been there a couple times as a kid, and it's a great environment to play the game.  It's something you dream about whether you were or weren't a Notre Dame fan or liked or didn't like Notre Dame.  It's a great atmosphere playing on NBC and everything.  It's a nationally covered game.
It's just a great opportunity to play in a great environment in front of the whole country.  It's always been a rivalry everybody's wanted to watch, Michigan State and Notre Dame.  So there's been a lot of great games and we just want to add to that this year.
Q. What have you season from DeShone Kizer watching him and Demetrius, what has stood out to you about the Notre Dame receivers?
RILEY BULLOUGH: I would say overall their offense is extremely athletic and they've got a lot of players.  Kizer, he's an athletic guy, he can throw the ball but he can also take it and run.  So to combat that, you've got to be fundamentally sound on defense.  Everyone's got to do their job.  They've got to do it every single play for the entire game.
So that's what we're preparing to do this week in practice.  So I'm sure our coaches will be all over the scout team to try to give us the best look, and that's kind of how we're going about it.
DEMETRIOUS COX: Kizer's going to throw it up there.  He has a lot of threats.  All those guys that stretch the field, made explosive plays.  So we'll have to be on our A-game, make 50-50 plays on the ball, things like that.
Q. For all three of you, Coach Dantonio was talking about the foundation he has with this program and kind of the basics that it's built upon.  What stands out to you when they say Michigan State football and this program?
RILEY BULLOUGH: I would say the first word that comes to my mind is toughness.  I feel, especially since Coach D and his staff has been here, that's kind of what the players pride themselves on.  And us older guys, we try to preach that to the younger guys so they can carry on that tradition as well.  But I think in the past several years we've definitely had tough players here, and that's what's allowed us to get to the point that we've been at in the last couple years.
TYLER O'CONNOR: I think almost along the same lines, one thing coach says is the jersey's earned and never given.  That's something that's very important because when you first get here a lot of guys across the country went through the recruiting process, and they have big heads about how they're praised in high school.  Then as soon as you get here, no matter how many stars you came in with or whatever it is, you have to earn everything you get.  Whether it's a shot on the field or an opportunity to play with the ones or whatever it is when you first get here.
Everything is earned and not given here.  That is the biggest thing we prepare here and that this program is based on.
DEMETRIOUS COX: I would agree.  Going off of what both of them said.  It is what it is.  It's a tough program.  Everything we do, every workout, even just getting up in the morning, you have to be tough to be a part of this.
Going off of what T.O. said, I would say family, if I had to say one, because being recruited, our coaches weren't just telling you kind of what you wanted to hear.  They're going to tell you, you're going to come in and be a part of something big and it's going to be a family-oriented program, and Coach D is going to actually care about you as a person and a man.  That's what it really comes down to here.
Q. Riley, with a dad from Michigan State and a mom from Notre Dame, what are weeks like this like at your house?
RILEY BULLOUGH: My mom bleeds green nowadays, so she'll definitely be wearing the Spartan jersey and rooting us on.
Q. In terms of the linebackers, you get Ed Davis back, probably Jon Reschke back.  What's that mean?  Obviously the other three played well in the opener, but what's it mean to get those guys back in the mix this week?
RILEY BULLOUGH: It means a lot.  Those guys are tremendous players and fun guys to have with you on the field.  They bring a lot of energy and a lot of excitement to our defense.  So to have them back in practice this week and then for the game, I think, is huge for our defense and our team as a whole.
Q. Riley, (Inaudible).
RILEY BULLOUGH: Yeah, for sure.  Being voted the captain was a huge thing for me, to be able to carry on that tradition, and now to be seen as one of the leaders on the team and to go down and play Notre Dame.  A team that we rooted for growing up because we understand what kind of program it is, but now to go down there and get a win would be huge for this team and to start this season off.
Q. Riley, you kind of like that fight song, don't you?
RILEY BULLOUGH: I don't mind it.
Q. Tyler, you wait four years to play, you play one game and you have a bye week.  You must have been tough to live with last weekend?
TYLER O'CONNOR: It's definitely been a long week off.  Even after playing on a Friday and having all day Saturday to watch college football and everything and then games on Sunday and Monday, that was a long weekend in itself.  Then to have to go in the next weekend and do it all over again.
It's definitely been a long, long time.  We've been working, and we had a tough bye week.  We had our toughest bye week that we've had since we've been here over the past two years and rightfully so.  We need it early in the season and also a big-time opponent.
So we're all excited to get to work here again today.  So the prep never stops whether it's in the film or it didn't really stop this whole weekend in the film room or getting our bodies right and healthy and getting our legs up under us.
It's been a long time coming.  I think they said it's almost like a second season opener because the bye week was so early, and this could catapult our season right here.
Q. Demetrius, what do you still have to learn about the defense and secondary that you don't know yet?
DEMETRIOUS COX: If I would have to say one thing, I'd like to learn more about where the blitzes and the stunts are coming from because sometimes being left out there kind of on an island, that is all because of where the blitz is, what's happening up front.  So sometimes you have more help.  If I have a linebacker kind of walling off inside on a certain play, I can play more outside in certain things like that.
Q. Demetrius, Coach Dantonio was here a couple minutes ago telling us how they went deep like 20 times last time.  How much of a workload is the secondary expecting?  Obviously, Darian was a guy that saw a lot of passes his way in the opener.  How have you seen him deal with that?
DEMETRIOUS COX: It's all about technique.  Guys are going to play fast on both teams.  We've got to play sound technique, doing little things down the field.  Getting our hands on guys early off the line.  Certain things like that, like Coach Barnett tried to teach us early on.  Really also not having any communication breakdowns as well, because I feel like we have a great scheme, great game plan for that going in.  But we stick to it and play with good deep ball judgment and things like that, we'll be fine.
Q. Tyler, you spoke about how it was a long week for you.  Put yourself in the mind that you're a quarterback coach, Coach O'Connor, what advice would you give to Tyler from game 1 to Game 2.
TYLER O'CONNOR: I think the biggest thing is I even gave advice to other players, I know it's early, but you've got to take a mental load off of football.  We went from fall camp into the first week and then played a game.  But we're not going to get another bye week.  It's going to be a long, 12 weeks straight of football.  The first three days took a mental load off, watched some football, relaxed.  And what we did and what Coach Salem told me to do is watch football, see how quarterbacks are playing and how they're reacting, and understand that it's just a game and I can go out there and understand that same game that some of the top quarterbacks in the country are doing.  So kind of relax, have fun, enjoy football and be ready to go this upcoming Saturday.
Q. For all three:  This is the 50th anniversary of the '66 game.  How does that game factor into being one of the iconic games in college football history, and what it meant to this skill and how that game was played, if you've read about it or heard about it?
RILEY BULLOUGH: I think it means a lot especially to me, my grandpa being part of that game.  But the guys now understand what kind of program Notre Dame is.  They have tough players, tough coaches.  Like I said earlier, they pride themselves on the same things that we do.
So we know it's going to be a battle down there.  But we feel like our guys are going to be ready to play and we're all excited for the opportunity.
DEMETRIOUS COX: For me, being a guy from Pittsburgh, you don't understand what it's like until you get here, and then you go out.  I remember, 2012 seeing how the fans were and how the alumni were and everything was the first time we played them.  Then going down there 2013, same thing with Michigan and all those guys.  You really don't understand until you're in it and you're part of the history.
That's a huge part of what fuels me, what fueled me on game day.  I know all the guys will come back, be hitting us up.  Getting us fired up because it's important to everybody.  Not just us, but everybody that came before us.
TYLER O'CONNOR: I think that's one of the biggest things.  You know how big a game is when all the former Spartans are hitting you up and telling you how much this means and everything like that.  But kind of along with Riley, my personal history with Notre Dame or whatever, it's awesome to be a part of this.  It's something that you dream about just playing in Notre Dame Stadium and under the lights and everything like that.
We played in the 100th Rose Bowl game, which is awesome.  And this will be up there with them.  Going into Notre Dame and playing in a night game, which they don't have too often and getting a win.
Q. Following up on the 1966 game.  Obviously it ended 10-10.  Nowadays there are no ties in college football.  Can you imagine playing in a game of that magnitude and playing that way?
RILEY BULLOUGH: I couldn't imagine that.  I think the fans would be more upset than the players just because they're crazy down there and up here.
DEMETRIOUS COX: I'm not a big tie guy, so no, no (laughing).  We might meet somewhere else and play in the parking lot or something.
Q. Tyler, given how Texas struggled against a two-quarterback approach or Notre Dame struggled against Texas with a pocket passer and mobile quarterback, do you expect to run more or split time with Damian like you did at Columbus last year?
TYLER O'CONNOR: I'm not sure.  It hasn't been discussed what the game plan is as far as that goes.  Certainly I do expect to run the ball more just because I didn't at all last week.  Maybe that was design, maybe it wasn't by Coach Warner's game plan.
But whatever is called upon is what's going to happen.  Obviously I told him many times I'm excited about running the ball.  Whether it's to get four yards and first down and putting us in a better second-down situation, great.  If it's breaking a long one, great.  Whatever's called upon.  I'm not sure how he's going to call it yet.  We kind of learn that throughout the week and understand that as the practice plays get called.  But I'm ready for it and I'm excited about it.
Q. The offensive line will be critical for this game to get you protection.  Can you talk about what you saw from them in game 1?  Also with R.J. and Felton, how important are they to playing down field for you guys?  What do you need to see from them this week?
TYLER O'CONNOR: First of all, if you look at the O-line in the first game, they played tremendous.  They protected great.  I think our one or two sacks are both covered sacks.  So that's on me, on the receivers getting open and everything.  So the offensive line played great.  I'm not worried about them at all.  We have a great O-line coach in Coach Staten, and the group of guys that are there, they want to work so bad.
And we talked about this in the preseason.  There are some guys that have played but haven't necessarily been the stars at their position on the O-line.  So there are guys excited about where they're at and to go out and make a name for themselves.  So there are a lot of guys excited about that.
But also R.J. and Felton, I mean, Felton played quite a bit and then went out.  And R.J. didn't play too much in the first game, but we've had great practices with them over the last couple weeks.  They're excited to play and everything, and play on a national stage, especially Felton.  Besides playing in the Big Ten Championship game and briefly in the Playoffs this is his kind of game to come out and make a name for himself.  He's very excited about it.
We're on the same page.  Like I said, we'll have deep play opportunities and they'll have to go up and make plays.  Our 50-50 balls and the defensive backs are going to win, they're going to need to win those as well.
Q. You mentioned hearing from MSU alumni before this game.  Riley, have you heard from any Notre Dame alumni in the family besides your mother about what to expect from this game?  Has anyone said I'll root for you but I'm rooting for Notre Dame?
RILEY BULLOUGH: Usually my grandpa and my uncles on the other side, they usually text me a day or two before the game, so they let me prepare during the week.  But I'm sure as the week goes on, I'll get some texts from family members and maybe some other friends too.
Q. I just asked Coach Dantonio what his favorite part of this rivalry is for you?  I know you've only briefly seen Notre Dame.  But what is the favorite thing?  He called it unpredictability.  What would be your favorite thing about this rivalry?
DEMETRIOUS COX: I would have to say how we're two really, really good programs, but I feel like we're kind of just different, like how different we are like culturally.  That's where our two cultures are different.  But at the same time we're like ying-yang.
RILEY BULLOUGH: The biggest thing is I think the atmosphere.  The atmosphere there is going to be out of this world.  There's going to be so much coverage for that game.  Notre Dame has such a profound following, people all over the country.  They're one of the few teams that are truly like that that have fans in all 50 states.  So to go down there and play in a game like this is going to be awesome.
TYLER O'CONNOR: I think they're playing with such a rich tradition that Notre Dame carries with itself.  And the following of Notre Dame is obviously huge.  In a sense, we kind of always have a chip on our shoulder no matter what.  But obviously Notre Dame gets so much national coverage and everything like that that we're going in there with an even bigger chip on our shoulder and a bigger opportunity to show what we can do, I think.
Q. Demetrious, I'll start with you, you guys had ten penalties as a team, 120 yards and only one of them was of the 5-yard variety.  How was that addressed during the bye week?
DEMETRIOUS COX: Really, well, first of all, Coach D was not happy at all.  Over the bye week we did a lot of disciplinary things, four penalties.  We've got to be more accountable for those.
So I feel like he tried to do that, and really he just said it's possible to play without penalties.  I think we had a game against Nebraska or somebody, Wisconsin, we had no penalties.  So he just wants to stress to us, we beat ourselves sometimes in certain situations and we can't let that happen if we want to be back-to-back Big Ten champs and stuff like that.  Great teams don't do things like that.
TYLER O'CONNOR: I think offensively speaking we halted two of our drives when we were driving the ball and everything and we felt that we would have gone down and scored if we didn't have a 10- or 15-yard penalty, and they weren't mental errors.  They weren't jumping off dives, delay of games, illegal formations or things like that.
They're more technique and kind of just being dumb.  I think we had a late hit maybe and a couple holding penalties.  So whether that's technique or getting used to how the refs are calling the game, I'm not sure.  I don't block much or do any of that.  But I guess that's on the coaches themselves.  That's not really mental errors, it's more technique offensively at least.
Q. Demetrious, have you ever been in a tie game?  Have you ever played in one?
DEMETRIOUS COX: Tic-tac-toe.
Q. So you like the college overtime rule even when you're playing in it?
DEMETRIOUS COX: Yeah, for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT