GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
May 27, 2019
Steph Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about playing Toronto.  
STEPH CURRY: Yeah, for sure a lot of familiarity with the city.  My wife, like you said, growing up there in Markham, Ontario, which is kind of right out the way of Toronto, and spent sixth through eighth grade off and on up there.  We talked about it before, it's always special going back up there.  I still don't think it's sunk in this is for the Finals.  So pretty special.   
But when it gets to time on the floor, it's obviously business as usual.  Energy up there seems amazing, so it'll be fun.   
 Q.  Did you ever live full-time in Toronto?  
STEPH CURRY: Yeah.   
 Q.  For a couple years or --  
STEPH CURRY: Yeah and a half.   
 Q.  So the first year and a half that your dad was there?  
STEPH CURRY: The last year and a half, yeah.   
 Q.  So you guys moved up from Charlotte?  What do you remember from that year and a half?  
STEPH CURRY: I mean, just how the culture was amazing.  It was cold, obviously.  We spent most of the winter months there.  But the people were amazing, so diverse, good energy, amazing candy.   
 Q.  Amazing candy?  
STEPH CURRY: Yeah, they have a -- this brand called Maynards.  Shout-out to them.  I got no skin in the game, I just love their stuff.  Every time I go back, I stash up.   
But going to Queensway Christian College, which I believe is no longer in existence, but that's where me and my brother and my sister all went to school.  It was a great time there, met some really cool people.  Still in touch with my middle school coach, James Lackey, who still supports me to this day.  I mean, there's a lot of connections.   
Even at the arena, a lot of the same people work as ushers or security or in the back that were there when me and my brother were running around causing trouble.  It'll be cool to take in that full experience.   
 Q.  Do you and Ayesha become like Canadian when you go there?  
STEPH CURRY: What does that mean?  We only wear denim and go to watch hockey and say, aye?  She's got a strong Canadian accent that comes back like that (snaps) when she comes back.  For sure.  I'm always amazed when that happens.  But other than that, no.   
 Q.  Do you get some fries with that stuff in it?  
STEPH CURRY: Poutine?   
 Q.  There you go.  
STEPH CURRY: Not really.   
 Q.  What kind of candy is it that's so good there?  Is it chocolate or hard candy?  
STEPH CURRY: No, nothing chocolate for me.  This is going off the rocker now.  Let's talk about basketball.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) wrapped up in the Finals MVP, do you know?  
STEPH CURRY: I mean, at the end of the day, that's like secondary to that you win or you lose.  Probably even way down the list in terms of -- obviously there's legends that have won it and people that have done amazing things in the Finals and whatnot, and I say that not to demean the award.  Literally it's a special award that everybody wants to get, including myself.  But at the end of the day, first thing I do is look up and see did you win or lose, and everybody that has a part in that feels pride about what you accomplished.  And same answer I always say, don't get me wrong, I play to play my best and to do what I need to do to help my team win, and that's never going to change, and got to win and then let the rest take care of itself.   
 Q.  Kevin said earlier he was very appreciative that you were supportive of when he won last year.  I was wondering in general what sense do you feel that how you react to that stuff sets the tone for the rest of the team?  
STEPH CURRY: I mean, it's just my nature.  There's no reason to -- in the positions that we are in, that's just nitpicking at the end of the day, if I really want to cause a hissy-fit about not winning the Finals MVP with all that we've experienced and all the highs that we've been to.  Like I said, when he won the last two, he deserved both of them.  He played amazing, such consistent basketball at a high level.  Do I feel like we win a championship without myself or with what Draymond did or Andre did?  No.  Like I said, everybody has a part in what we do, and whoever wins it this year, it's the same vibe.  I could go out and average 50, but without the contributions and the effort and the focus of everybody that steps foot on the floor, we're not putting banners up.  Everybody can feel pride in all the individual accolades as well as the team.   
 Q.  Earlier this season you called Cleveland in the Finals kind of synonymous for this team, right?  What is it like now kind of preparing for an entirely different roster, different team?  What kind of challenges does that present?  
STEPH CURRY: I love it.  Remember I talked about, it's hard to find that edge and get-up for like the sort of monotony -- I don't know if you find that in the Finals, but that's a part of human nature that you fight.  So us getting on the plane tomorrow to go to Toronto, different energy, different city, different views, everything should prepare us to lock in, understanding that we have a prime opportunity to start off this Finals series on the road and get a win and set the tone for how it's going to be.  I like the challenge and the unfamiliarity of this kind of schedule and flow.  We've been there before, and we've experienced a lot, and this is, I think, something we're capable of doing.   
 Q.  Regarding DeMarcus, did you watch him at all there?  
STEPH CURRY: He's been coming along fine.  Again, all that he's been through, coming off the initial injury and then the quad, like so much rehab and so much missed time, but he's worked his butt off to give himself a chance to play and help us.  I know there's a lot of conversations about what that means, what that's going to look like.  But at the end of the day, if he's available to play and Coach puts him out there, he's going to help us win.  We'll adjust to the different rotations that that provides for us if he's available.   
 Q.  Shaun was up here calling himself the old guy.  I guess his basketball future, we don't know how much he has left, but he appreciates seeing what these young kids are doing because he's sort of helped groom that group to stay ready; how much has Shaun meant in terms of guiding those guys?  I know Andre, as well.  
STEPH CURRY: They're just good sounding boards and examples of -- Shaun especially, like a very unique journey to get to where he's at and how hard he had to work to get there, and the patient that it took to get there.  So I'm sure his story speaks volumes to guys that are trying to find their way in the league, and again, how much work that goes into it, but to know if you're patient and you just grind, hopefully it'll work out for you.   
And they're just good people, good human beings.  They really care.  They're genuine.  Yeah, I feel like any veteran like that you've got to buddy up to, and they'll point you in the right direction.   
 Q.  Were you one of those kids that had a Vince Carter poster?  
STEPH CURRY: I had the shoes.  Yeah, I was a big Shox fan back in the day.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you seeing this Toronto team kind of break through?  Obviously your dad was on a pretty good team back in the day.  That was probably their best team until the past couple years.  What do you think about them breaking through like this?  
STEPH CURRY: I mean, what, 24 years of their existence, and for them to get -- finally get over the hump, you can tell how much it meant to them.  The city was going crazy -- it looked like they had won the championship already, the way they were celebrating, and obviously it's their first time there, so the fans really got into it.  It looked like a crazy atmosphere.  Like I said, that's a short 24 years, there's a lot of history, and there's some great teams, I think it was 2002, the team my dad was on with Vince -- who else was on that team?  What's my guy's name?  Antonio Davis, Alvin Williams -- was Doug Christie still there?  MO-Pete?  But anyways, they've gotten close in the last couple years; I think they've struggled with Cleveland.  But it's just there's a lot of passion up there for the game of basketball, for the Raptors, and you can tell how much it meant.   
We know what the task is going in, and starting on the road, that building is going to be crazy, but we have a chance to get off to a good start.   
 Q.  What kind of challenge does Kyle give you?  
STEPH CURRY: I mean, he's just tough and has a knack to stick his nose in, get loose balls, take charges.  He controls all the offense.  He obviously can score if he gets hot shooting from outside.  He's got a high, high basketball IQ.  Just got to know where he's at at all times.  Just be smart with the ball around him, and match his intensity and his energy.  That's the biggest thing.  He ignites their offense in the open break when they get steals or rebounds or whatnot, and you've just got to be ready to match that.   
 Q.  Can you talk about Kawhi, if you think he'll be on you in important moments?  
STEPH CURRY: I have no idea.   
 Q.  How tough is he in just straight one-on-one type situations?  
STEPH CURRY: He's gifted physically with strength, and his wingspan and foot speed and all that type of stuff.  Again, most good defenders can't play into their hands, can't get into a battle for position.  I know what my strengths are and how to go at it, so I've got to play to those.  And at the end of the day, whatever the match-ups are, whoever is on you, you've just got to make them work within the way that we create open shots and create offense.  Be able to adjust to whatever they decide to do on that end.   
 Q.  What are the challenges Kawhi presents to this team?  What makes him so much of a pest for you guys?  
STEPH CURRY: I mean, he's just a scorer, and he plays at his own pace really well.  You try to speed him up, try to show him bodies or play him one-on-one, and he just has confidence to be able to get to his spots.  It's one of those things where one-on-one defense you've got to take that challenge, whoever is guarding him, try not to force him into tough shots, understand he's going to make some of them, don't get deflated, get the ball out, go right back at him.  But over the course of 48, same thing we do with any great scorer that we play against.  It usually is not one person that we're going to leave on an island.  We've just got to make it tough on him, same way that they try to do to us, no matter who we play.   
 Q.  What have you thought of Drake's antics on the sideline?  
STEPH CURRY: It's been entertaining.  I know it's a tricky situation with him being right there on the court, but at the end of the day, he's having fun, having -- you can't hate on nobody having fun.  Well, I guess in this life everybody hates on people having fun.  So it's par for the course on that one.   
 Q.  Any in-and-out shows expected when he comes to town?  
STEPH CURRY: No, that's the enemy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT