NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND ONE: CLIPPERS vs WARRIORS
April 26, 2019
Steph Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Warriors interview
Warriors - 129, Clippers - 110
Q. How is the ankle holding up overall, and what was key in still playing through it?
STEPH CURRY: It's fine.  Stuff happens.  Just anytime obviously with me and ankles, it's kind of a little different kind of conversation.  But I'm feeling good.  Ready for Sunday.
Q. Speaking of Sunday, how do you handle the turnaround?  This is the longest you guys have been pushed in a first-round series.  And does your familiarity with Houston help?
STEPH CURRY: Definitely helps.  But we're not that old.  Quick turnarounds, we should be all right.  Obviously it was not ideal in terms of the opportunity we had during Game 5 but came down here, took care of business.
Like you said, we have a pretty good sense of what Houston likes to do.  There will be subtle nuances we'll have to adjust to.  But we like the momentum we've created tonight and hopefully that will carry over to Sunday.
With our defensive effort, obviously what KD did tonight was unbelievable.  He's in a groove right now.  And usually the best thing for a guy playing like that is just to keep playing.  So take care of our bodies tomorrow, have an opportunity to look at some film and talk about some of the game plan going into the series and then just play hard on Sunday, try to get off on a good foot.
Q. The Clippers, they played you guys tough.  Took you to 6.  Landry Shamet was on your hip the whole series.  What can you take into Houston?  The intensity was raised.  How do you guys go forth and take care of business?
STEPH CURRY: Honestly this six games felt like it was two months in terms of all the adjustments and emotional roller coaster from Game 2, their comeback to losing Game 5 and how we bounced back in between.  So, it tested us.  They played amazing.  Really made us have to raise our level of play and tonight we did that.
So we talk about it all the time, like, every playoff series, in order to win, whether it's a sweep, whether it's in five, six or seven, it's tough.  And every game is hard.  And we needed that test to understand what it's going to be like the rest of the way.
So I like the way we responded when it was necessary.  And for us the biggest lesson is obviously try to take care of home court better than we have.  And our defense usually wins games for us.  Games 2 and 5 we were terrible on the defensive end and we lost.  The rest of them we were solid and made them work and we won.  It was pretty simple at that point.
Q. You mentioned defense being key.  Going against Houston, do you guys think that you guys are more focused on trying to slow them down or do you guys just think it's a fast-paced, 3-point shootout the entire series?
STEPH CURRY: We know how they play.  They shoot a lot of 3s.  But a lot of their play making is through James and CP really.  They're amazingly talented offensive players, very savvy.  Their gamesmanship is at a high level.  So all those things we've experienced before and we'll be ready for it.
At the end of the day, gotta make them work, make them take tough shots, whether they make or miss, make them defend on the other end.  And very similar to this series, I think every game is going to be a full 48 focus.  And it's going to be fun.
Q. We talked about it after Game 4, just the record of wins in the playoffs on the road.  You guys win all three here, six straight dating back to last season.  What is it about you and your team going into a hostile environment that gets you up to play?
STEPH CURRY: I think we just thrive in those situations in terms of understanding we have the talent and the experience and the composure to play on the road and at the end of the day that atmosphere we kind of live for.
It's weird the way we've played in this series, home versus away.  But at the end of the day, we did what we needed to do.  So we want to play better at home, continue the level of play that we do on the road, and from there set ourselves up for success in this next round.  So, I don't know, that's my best answer for it.
Q. Looked like the communication was really good tonight, even to a degree where you guys were hyping each other up.  I think it was at halftime that you and KD were talking.  Do you remember what you said to him when he had the 38 points?  And how were you guys, like, cohesive tonight in communicating?
STEPH CURRY: I think just hammering down on what our intentions were coming into this game.  Knowing how well KD has been playing, trying to get him in spots so he can take advantage of their defense and certain matchups.
But the pace we were playing and kind of the balance of everybody getting involved, he was dominant all night.  But when he didn't have the ball in his hands I was coming off of pick-and-rolls, Draymond was making plays and Klay was a threat; Andre was finishing at the rim.
And that all was kind of sparked by our defensive effort and being on the same page.  So at the end of the day, body language was great.  Energy was great from the start.  And we got out of our own way a little bit.  And that was a key for our success tonight.  And it was fun.  So you've got to hype each other up for sure.
Q. How do you feel personally about the strategy of guarding Harden strictly to his left; we've seen the Jazz do it and the Bucks do it, how do you feel about that strategy?
STEPH CURRY: I'm not sure.  It's not how we've played traditionally.  But he's had an unbelievable year.  So everybody's trying everything at this point.  But for us we have solid defensive principles that we rely on and had some success last year in the playoffs.
But, again, everything's on the table in terms of just winning a playoff series against that team no matter what it takes.  So we'll talk about all that stuff tomorrow.
At the end of the day, for us, it's just about being physical, having great energy, being on the same page, all five guys out there on the floor and having confidence on that end of the floor.  No matter, again, if he makes or misses, just making it tough on him.
Q. You and Chris Paul have an interesting history together.  Pretty competitive battles that you've had.  What is it about him that gets the best out of you or brings the best out of you?
STEPH CURRY: He's an amazing player.  That's what amazing players do:  they raise your level of play.  I mean, from the time I got in the league, like he was a guy at that position that kind of set the pace and he's still playing at a high level.  So we obviously go back to North Carolina days before I got in the league, following him around, working out with him and stuff like that.
But at the end of the day, his level of respect in terms of what he's capable, that intensity that competition is great and kind of thrive in those opportunities, and it's going to be another opportunity this next series to leave it all out there on the floor.
Q. You said you're not that old yet, right, with this quick turnaround.  This is year five of a really long run where every single year -- what's the fatigue level for you guys just day in, day out in this playoff grind right now?
STEPH CURRY: I think I made a joke like this first round felt like it was two months, it was just the emotional part of it.  The adjustments you have to make from game to game.  Obviously losing Boogie early and losing a 31-point lead and trying to come back on the road and the mental investment you have to put into it.
Physically I think we feel great as a team and shouldn't be any excuses there.  But for us we gotta really rely on the experience in terms of being able to flip the switch from one team to the next and that will be the biggest test.  But in terms of our energy and the physical presence and being able to play a 12:30 game on Sunday, we should be fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT