NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND 2019
February 17, 2019
Steph Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Team LeBron - 178, Team Giannis - 164   
 Q.  Obviously, tonight probably didn't go as well as you wanted it to, but could you just put a bow on the weekend and what it's been like this whole weekend.  
STEPH CURRY: It's an amazing weekend to be back in Charlotte and pretty much everything I imagined it to be.  Having my family and friends, people I grew up with kind of come out and celebrate how influential and important Charlotte is to me and my entire family.   
Obviously, ending up tonight playing in the All-Star Game here is very surreal, and one I'll remember for a very long time, despite the missed shots and the loss, for sure.   
 Q.  Can you take us through the play where you hit the three falling down over Klay, and what the banter was like afterwards.  
STEPH CURRY: From the time he checked in, we were going back and forth.  I wanted to guard him every chance I got, and him vice versa.  So I feel like any possession I touched the ball with him on me, I was just going to shoot no matter what.  It worked out in my favor, that possession.  He feel asleep for a hot second, tried to close out, and I sold the call for sure.  Nice to see that one.   
If I was going to make one shot out of the 23 I took, it had to be that one.   
 Q.  Steph, how surprised were you on the bounce pass to Giannis that he actually finished it?  Just take us through that play.  
STEPH CURRY: I bounced it really high and a lot of time in between when it hit the ground to him dunking it.  Obviously, timing was unreal.  His length, finishing it, and getting it before it came down.  Pretty bang-bang play.  Just glad we had that connection.   
I'm not sure anybody else on the floor could have finished that one.  So for it to be choreographed like that was pretty nice.   
 Q.  You showcase your talent to the whole city that saw you grow up, but you blessed more children when you were here during the All-Star Weekend.  How do you feel blessing other people that saw you grow up and they now can have that opportunity to be blessed by you?  
STEPH CURRY: I mean, it's important because there were resources I had growing up that kind of set me on my way here in Charlotte.  I was fortunate in that sense, and so coming back here, there was definitely an awareness and opportunity to impact the community, not just this weekend, but going forward with certain programs that we're going to have at the Karen Hefner Recreation Center.  I used to have practices over there.   
And the entire Charlotte Mecklenburg recreation department in terms of all the different places that they provide for kids to be able to go, not just play sports, but get a better education, invest in themselves.  Me and my family thought that was an extremely important opportunity and, again, something that year after year, hopefully, we can come back and continue to reinvest.   
 Q.  How good did it feel to get that dunk at the end?  
STEPH CURRY: For all of you all that saw me in L.A. a couple months ago, I redeemed myself.  So that was the best part of my night for sure.   
 Q.  Just can you describe the dynamic between you and Klay and just to be able to go against him.  He pointed to you after knocking down a three in the corner, and just talk about that dynamic.  
STEPH CURRY: Yeah, we're obviously each other's biggest supporters, but we kind of do it in a fun way.  We talk so much trash to each other.  There's a couple sayings we throw out there when each of us is shooting.  And we almost like get happy when the other one misses.  It's just a weird kind of vibe, but it comes from a good place.   
So, yeah, I was yelling at him -- I'll yell at him even when we're playing for the Warriors and we're on the same team.  I think it's because we feed off of the competition, and trying to be better than each other at shooting the basketball.  So that'll always kind of be the vibe for sure.   
 Q.  Steph, just wondering what it's like for somebody that's born and raised here, what it's like to see Kemba Walker just get the love he got from the people here tonight and his career so far here in Charlotte.  
STEPH CURRY: For me growing up, obviously, with the Hornet organization, being here representing the city, leaving, coming back as a different name, and now the Hornets again, there's a lot of history here from a basketball perspective.  I think I felt it everywhere I went, celebrating my dad and Muggsy, Alonzo Mourning, Glen Rice, Larry Johnson, Kendall Gill, all those guys that suited up for the Hornets.   
Kemba, he's breaking all these records, and it's unbelievable to see, one, how he's established himself as a premier NBA player, but to do it here in Charlotte and get the city behind him and give them something to root for, I think it's pretty special and something I respect so much from his standpoint.   
Hopefully, he stays here for a long time.  Who knows how that will work out?  But just the way this weekend all came together with a little older guys and the new regime with Kemba kind of all celebrating what it means to be a Hornet, that was pretty special.   
 Q.  Kind of asked my question, but a followup, with those records being broken here by Kemba, do you give your dad a hard time about that a lot with most of his records going down?  
STEPH CURRY: No.  My brother was making a joke.  He said if the All-Star Game was here two years ago, they could have announced him still as the all-time leading scorer in Hornets' history, but since then Kemba's broken that.   
Definitely, I don't give anybody flack for playing 16 years, 10 here in Charlotte, the last original Hornet, and now still in the organization, obviously, as a color commentator for the team, and then pretty much an ambassador throughout the city and throughout the state.   
I've been trying to get him to move out to the Bay, and it speaks to how much of this is home.  It's been a really hard selling point.  This is where home is for him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT