NBA ALL-STAR 2019
February 16, 2019
Steph Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's it like being back home and having the All-Star Game here?  I know it means a lot to you.  
STEPH CURRY: It means a lot.  It's kind of overwhelming, to be honest.  From the time I got here Thursday morning to now, I'm just kind of trying to get as much in as I can.  Got to be like the Energizer Bunny, fight this fatigue, and just have as many experiences as I can and see some familiar faces, some familiar sights.   
I've played countless games in this building growing up, high school, AAU-type stuff.  It's pretty awesome to be back here representing Charlotte the way I know how.   
 Q.  Talk about the family bet you have for tonight.  
STEPH CURRY: Yeah, family is obviously big for us and our support.  I kind of wanted to weave that into the bet.  So whoever loses has to pick up the tab for all the tickets any time we play against each other for the rest of our careers, which the stakes are high, considering how many people show up for our games.  I got to get the best of him tonight.  I know he's very confident, though.   
 Q.  On playing high school basketball at Charlotte Christian and former coach Shonn Brown:  
STEPH CURRY: I don't remember my skit, but I know just how much Charlotte Christian meant to me in terms of kind of sending me on my way and giving me a solid foundation.  I know he's still there.  He's still obviously coaching the team and the principal of the high school.  It's always a place I want to be a part of my story.  Yeah, I'm just proud to be able to represent them the way I know how.   
For what Coach Brown has been able to do for me in my life has been monumental for sure.  I think the last 10 years I've had a lot of experience with him coming out to the Bay and seeing me play.  Every time I've had a chance to go back to Christian and see the guys play.  Not a lot has changed, so it's good.   
 Q.  What do you think about the team drafted by Giannis?  
STEPH CURRY: Everybody's been hating on his drafting skills, and I like being the underdog this year.  It's going to be fun.  I think our team's really well balanced.  We've got a little bit of everything.  I feel like we're going to get this win.  So it's going to be fun tomorrow.   
 Q.  He wanted to draft the All-Stars that wanted to play defense.  
STEPH CURRY: That's a savvy plan.  He might need to tell them that before the game just to make sure they understand that that's what his expectations are, for sure.   
 Q.  On playing college basketball at nearby Davidson:  
STEPH CURRY: Sure.  I didn't get to do that when I was playing there.  I didn't get to jump in the student section.  I wanted to get that experience.  The kids with the Speedos, "A" for effort to trying to distract St. Joe's from shooting their free throws.  The energy in the building was unbelievable.  It's surreal every time I get to go back there in terms of our humble beginnings and the imprint that myself and the team that I got to play for for those three years, we've left on the program.   
And to see Coach [Bob] McKillop still doing what he's doing, it's just wild to think about.  I tried to enjoy it to the fullest yesterday.  They got the win, going to the student section, go crazy, and just really enjoy the homecoming.   
 Q.  On the makeup of Team Giannis:  
STEPH CURRY: I think, if you go in our locker room right now, you look at -- you just put all 12 guys together, that's a hell of a player.  You've got Giannis' just raw athleticism, my shooting, Kemba's quickness, PG's hops, Russ's just competitive will.  Who else is in there?  Nikola Vucevic's touch, [Nikola] Jokic's passing ability, D'Angelo's [Russell] just swag, I call it.  What else?  Kyle Lowry, his IQ on the court is crazy.  Did I miss anybody?  Who did I miss?  Oh, and Dirk's longevity.  Who else?  That's it.  I think I did all right there.  That was pretty good.   
 Q.  When you look back to your first All-Star, back then not many people were sitting around you taking all these pictures.  How can you truly appreciate the path that you took to get to where you are now?  
STEPH CURRY: It's easy, man.  I never take this stuff for granted.  Like even when I found out I was an All-Star this year, people might think just it's expected or whatnot.  Like for me, to your point, I remember the first year I didn't make it, like I thought I should have made it and I didn't, and then that next year working, working hard, making that jump, and then making my first one, and every year since has been just a surreal, unbelievable experience, an accomplishment that I do take a moment and just, obviously, thank God for the ability to be here, to be healthy, to play this game at the highest level, but not forget where I came from.   
It being in Charlotte is another great reminder, just the overall journey, right?  Because from the time I started playing basketball when I was 5 right down the street at the recreation center to now, a lot has happened, a lot of great things.  That's kind of what this weekend's about, just a reminder of the journey, a celebration of where I'm at now, and for my entire family and everybody that's had a part in helping me get here, I want them to celebrate too.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
STEPH CURRY: That's a good question.  I think we'd be all right.  I'd have to guard myself, right?  Klay as well, K.D.  No, we'd do all right.   
 Q.  What has been the best part of this run the Warriors have been on?  
STEPH CURRY: It's a combination of everything.  Winning is fun.  How you deal with challenges and trying to figure stuff out when you get punched in the face, like that's fun as well, and that's happiness.  But I think the biggest part of the stuff that I remember the most is who you get to do it with.  So you remember your teammates and coaches and how your family was able to enjoy all the experiences with me as well.   
I always try to have a smile on my face and enjoy what I do because I'm passionate about it.  I mean, there's no reason for me not to at this level, and the opportunities that I have in front of me.  So I want to keep that going.   
 Q.  A favorite dance for celebration?  
STEPH CURRY: The shimmy for sure.   
 Q.  On his mother, Sonya Curry, making a half-court shot:  
STEPH CURRY: Yeah, I was surprised because like the first four, she flung underhand and it didn't make it to the rim, and that last one, it just looked good from the time it left her hand.  I was like, wham, bam, can of ham, that's going in.  It was just exciting for the whole family to be there.  Very fitting ending to the day and to that event that she made that shot.  Her celebration game was nice.   
 Q.  On the 3-Point Contest.  
STEPH CURRY: I just want to win.  That's it.  Most likely, knowing the talent in the field.  It's not going to be easy by any stretch.   
 Q.  On chasing a fourth championship this year:  
STEPH CURRY: They're all hard.  Every year is a new challenge, different circumstances.  We are motivated.  We understand what's at stake.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT