NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 21, 2017
Steph Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What does it say about this team with 21 turnovers last night in this building that you can still win by 12?
STEPH CURRY: We can obviously play better and hope to do that tomorrow.  It wasn't a pretty game by any stretch of the imagination.  KD [Kevin Durant] did what he did in the third, which was huge for us.  JaVale [McGee] gave us a huge effort in the first half, and we had some timely runs that kind of allowed us to build momentum, but there are things we've got to clean up, and we want to put together a solid 48-minute effort to close out the series tomorrow.
Q. How tough is it to close this team out in their own building?
STEPH CURRY: I mean, it's tough because -- any road game is tough, and especially when a team's back is against the wall.  They're going to leave it all on the floor and probably play with a lot of pride and energy, and we have to withstand that and play Warriors basketball, like I said, for 48 minutes.  If we play like we did yesterday minus some spectacular performances by those two guys, it could be a different game.  We've got to play better.
Q. Were you a little surprised that Mike [Brown] kept you in with three fouls last night?
STEPH CURRY: I'm a pretty good negotiator.  I won that one.  I tried to do my part not to make him regret the decision at all.  Thankfully I didn't pick up another one and was able to get to halftime with three and play smarter in the second half.
Q. What's been working for you this postseason specifically?  Do you feel as good right now as you have all season?
STEPH CURRY: Yeah, I feel good.  Obviously we've got a nice rhythm, a nice feel to what I'm doing, playing aggressive, trying to balance play-making and scoring, all my different responsibilities when I'm out there on the floor, but things are going well.  Just want to hopefully sustain it for however long it needs to be.
Q. We've been talking about Klay's defense for a couple games, and it seems like Game 3 was that turning point where you got it started  with defense.  How has he taken Patty Mills and made it tough on him?
STEPH CURRY: Just staying attached to him.  You know how Patty can get loose.  He never stops moving.  I mean, he's missed some shots that he probably normally would have made, but for the most part, when Klay has been on him, he's just used his length well, used his footwork to stay attached to him, and not give him any space really, whether it's coming off a pick-and-roll or coming off a down screen or even in broken plays, just trying to find where he is, and Klay is taking that responsibility well knowing he's a huge X factor for them scoring, and we're going to do that again in Game 4.
Q. Coach just praised your weak side defense in this game.  How much of an advantage is it when you've got guys that are going, KD is going, you don't have to focus as much on scoring?
STEPH CURRY: I mean, at the end of the day, I've got to do my best on both ends, regardless of who's shooting or whatever.  You know, you can't take plays off.  You can't -- no matter who you're guarding, you're always going to be involved in the play somehow, whether it's on the ball or off the ball, so just trying to, like I said, lock in on the keys to guarding whoever the match-up is, knowing their tendencies, and just being focused, man.  That's really it.  Focus and energy usually leads to good results on the defensive end.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT