NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: TRAIL BLAZERS VS. WARRIORS
May 20, 2019
Steph Curry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Golden State 119, Portland 117
Q. First time you won't start on home court, is that an advantage, ability to win on the road, not having home court?
STEPH CURRY: There was talk last year when we went to Houston for the Western Conference Finals, and it was a different experience for us, and we obviously answered the call on that.
I wouldn't say it's an advantage, because you know, the term is home-court advantage.  But you know, Game 7, and having that at home.
But for us having been there five straight times, and whoever we play will be there first time in a while, like we've got to be able to come in Game 1 with the right mindset.  Be plenty of time to talk about that in the next 10 days.
Last year's Western Conference Finals will help us in terms of having that experience, having to start on the road.  We won Game 1 and figured it out from there.
Q. Can you talk about how the team was able to turn up the defense in the fourth quarter in overtime to win the game?
STEPH CURRY: Honestly, that's been the MO this entire series.  Our second half defense has been phenomenal, and being able to stay in that down the stretch and just make them take tough shots.  Obviously it could have gone a different way.  They could have made them, and you know, whatever the case is, but our level of focus and energy on that on the floor, was phenomenal.  It was winning basketball on that end of the floor.  You know, our main guys, Draymond [Green], Klay [Thompson], even Kevon [Looney] tonight was spectacular on that end of the floor.  Any time we had a chance to leave an imprint on that end of the floor and give ourselves a chance to win, we did that.
Q. You talk about the hunger that is in your group.  What creates that hunger, and how much does trust play into all of what you guys accomplish when you are down, as much as you're down in games in this series?
STEPH CURRY: Well, I mean, I think as much as we've been here and nothing's really new at this point, we still don't, like I said, take anything for granted.  We understand how hard it is to end at this level.  We don't want to end as long as we can control it.
A night like tonight where you're up 3-0 and they go on a crazy run the second half, a lot of teams would have said, you know what, we'll just get them in Game 5 and go home and rely on our home crowd.  But the trust -- using your word -- in terms of knowing that everybody was going to play until the horn sounded at the end of the fourth quarter tonight to overtime allowed us to dig deep and find just a way to win.
You could sit here and talk about every single guy that stepped on the floor tonight that came with that mentality, and we walk off the court with some fancy hats and celebrating our fifth straight Finals.  It's a pretty special moment.
Q. When I asked Klay what the difference between the four games in the regular season where you split with these guys, between the four games here in the postseason, he said the key word there was regular, like regular season.  Is that where you guys are flipping the switch and finding other gears?  Is that the way you see it?
STEPH CURRY: I mean, honestly, the only game that I think we struggle is the one that was before the All-Star Break, we were kind of checked-out, myself included, knowing I was going back to Charlotte and all that type of stuff.
There's a different intensity in the playoffs just naturally because it's win-or-go-home.  We know how to find that next gear, and it comes with the experiences that we've been through.  It's so hard over 82 games to elevate to that level on a nightly basis, but when it matters most, we have nights like tonight where we just find a way and take teams's best shots and run with it.  So proud of everybody that helped make this a reality to be back in the Finals, and four more wins, and you know, get back to celebrating.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT