KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2021
Alena Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Five birdies over the last seven holes.  Really kicked it in gear.  Has to feel good to put that stretch together to finish at 4-under.
 ALENA SHARP:   Yeah, I was very -- you know, I just kept being patient.  Then I knew coming to the front nine I would have more wedges and I hit a lot of good shots, I hit it close, and made the putts.
 It was nice to see them go in because it's been a struggle to the start of the year.  You know, I didn't stop believing and just kind of put that positive energy out there, be and good things happened.
 Q. Seems like Alena Sharp way, right?  You're so consistent with making a cut and playing the weekend and cashing the paycheck.  Just seems kind of like your grind-it-out mentality.
 ALENA SHARP:   I definitely have grinded it out a lot in my career.  But, yeah, it's been a struggle to the start of the year.  I had an injury before we went to Florida and still dealing with it a little bit.  But got an MRI and nothing is wrong, so no tears or anything.
 So mentally that was tough to start the year, and then you miss two cuts in a row and get behind the eight ball a little bit.
 Then coming into here start yesterday not so great on a tougher wave, and I just kept going on today.  Just really kept a positive attitude.
 Q. What were you dealing with?
 ALENA SHARP:   I have hip pain and my physio thinks that could be back related.  Doing a lot of stretching.  I should have been stretching in my 20s.  (Laughter.)
 Q. Could have avoided a lot right now.
 ALENA SHARP:   Yeah, exactly.
 Q. It's good you're feeling better.
 ALENA SHARP:   Feeling better, yeah.
 Q. First under-par round of the year?
 ALENA SHARP:   Of the year, yeah.  Out here, yeah.  I shot even at Lake Nona the first day and couple rounds over par until today.
 Q. This course isn't easy.
 ALENA SHARP:   Honestly, my history here is not great.  I had to come in with even more positive attitude.  I haven't really made many cuts here.
 Yeah, I'm really happy coming off today.
 Q. How big is the attitude perspective on this course?  I feel like there are a lot of people who are either like -- I think Inbee's average place here is tenth, hasn't missed a cut, and then there are a lot of people that just come here and it's just like, oh, man.
 ALENA SHARP:   I think honestly this year the greens are better.  Also it helps having an early tee time and not being late.  It gets kind of bumpy.
 Yeah, you need to have positive attitude here.  There are some funky holes and you just have to stick to your target, maybe sometimes not go at every pin.
 Q. Kind of a round like this comes at the right time I would imagine with ANA right around the corner and the first major of the year.
 ALENA SHARP:   Definitely.
 Q. Got a weekend under your belt.
 ALENA SHARP:   Yeah, for sure.  Get some more competitive rounds going and get ready for next week.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT