LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 11, 2018
Alena Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice bogey-free round.  Good way to start any tournament.  
ALENA SHARP: Definitely.   
 Q.  Handful of birdies out there.  Tell me how you feel today.  
ALENA SHARP: I felt great about how I played.  Was really calm coming into today.  I love coming to Hawaii.  It's just got that positive energy.  I feel like every time I come here just kind of has this zen feeling.   
Worked a little bit in the wind the last couple days and knew it was going to be windy.  I've played here a lot when it's been breezy, so I stayed patient and tried to keep the pressure nice and loose and the arms nice and loose.   
I've played here so many times I kind of know what to do with this wind.  I feel like I just used my experience to my advantage.   
 Q.  Do you have to alter your game at all to play in the wind, or is it more a mental adjustment?  
ALENA SHARP: I think definitely you need to make sure you have the starting lines proper off the tee.  Like drive it in the fairway, and then just knowing how much it's affecting your ball, if I'm going to hit a punch shot or ride it.   
So, yeah, there's a lot more thinking going on for sure, but I really enjoy playing in the wind.  I've come to be a pretty decent wind player, which at the beginning of my career I wasn't.  Kind of nice to be able to say that and own it.   
I played well in the Bahamas in the wind.  Hoping it's breezy the rest of the week.   
 Q.  Good challenge for you.  
ALENA SHARP: Yeah.   
 Q.  I have to ask about the ribbon on your hat.  It was great to see you and your fellow Canadians come out today with the hats, and the Symetra Tour as well.  I saw your post about putting your club out.  
ALENA SHARP: Yeah.   
 Q.  It's been a sad week.  It's great for the support.  Tell me about your thoughts there.  
ALENA SHARP: Yeah, it's such a tragic thing that happened.  I played hockey growing up and we were on a lot of bus trips.  You just can't imagine what it's like.  They were going to a playoff game.  They're young men.  It's just so sad.   
Just wanted to show our support any way we could.  We're going to Saskatchewan this summer to the Canadian Open, and we just wanted to show the community we're there and supporting them.   
 Q.  It seems kind of a stereotype that maybe the Americans have that every Canadian plays hockey.  Something we're learning is hockey does seem to be what brings Canadians together?  
ALENA SHARP: Definitely.  It's our passion and it does bring -- look, it's brought the country together.  It always does during the Olympics.   
Yeah, I just hope that some of the parents can find some peace.  Just always thinking about them.   
 Q.  You said it was Sara who spearheaded this?  
ALENA SHARP: Yeah.  She's like, We should do some ribbons, and we saw that the girls did it last week, so we went and found some yesterday and put them in the Canadians' lockers.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT