CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2017
Alena Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're happy to welcome in Alena Sharp from Hamilton here in Ontario, Canada.  Played in 20 events so far this LPGA season.  This is her 13th CP Women's Open with the best finish coming last year.
Finished fourth in Calgary.  How are you doing, Alena?  Good to see you again.
ALENA SHARP: Great, just really happy to be here.
THE MODERATOR: It's got to be great to play at home, you live a couple hours away.  We were closer to your home earlier this year.  But it's got to be a great feeling playing at home for your country's crowds and for your National Championship?
ALENA SHARP: Yeah, it's so nice to be home.  I've had some time off since the British Open, so I've been up here in Canada since August 8th.  I think this is the longest I've been in Canada for a while.  Just feeling rested, recharged and ready to go.  It is nice to be here and have everybody coming up to me and saying good luck.  It's just a different feel than just any other event out on Tour.
Q. What makes it a different feel?  Is it because it's home or what makes it so special?
ALENA SHARP: Definitely it's because we're at home.  I don't know.  Think the Canadians just get more attention this week and at Manulife.  So it's nice to get the attention and have everybody really pulling for you.  There's just so much positive energy around.
Q. You mentioned the two weeks off.  How is your game shaping up?  You've been in contention a couple events so far this year.  Manulife and Lotte.  And now with the break, how do you feel coming in this week to Ottawa?
ALENA SHARP: I feel pretty good.  I kind of made a rookie mistake this year.  Played 7 in a row, got really tired.  Went home to Phoenix for a few days and then flew to the British.  I didn't have a lot of time off.
Played well at the British, just didn't putt well.  Was kind of disappointed leaving there so I took a week off.  I took at least seven days off and didn't touch a club.  Went to Cottage Country, hung out with some friends and really took some downtime and then I got back into it last week.  I feel like every day just gets a little bit better.
Being recharged in the mind is a huge thing.  That's why I said I made a rookie mistake, because I do need those maybe five, five in a row is enough, and have that one week where you only take maybe three days off to recharge and then you're back at it.  So really looking forward to getting out and playing this week.
THE MODERATOR: We're happy to have you here on the fresh legs.  We'll open it up for any questions.
Q. What is it about playing in Canada that seems to take you to another level?  Obviously you had a tremendous result at last year's Canadian Open.  You were right there at the Manulife for the first three rounds and most of the fourth round as well.  What is it about playing at home that gets you going?
ALENA SHARP: I think I've gotten better at it.  The first few years of my career not so great.  I was always nervous and felt like I put a lot of pressure under myself.  I feel like I've gotten better as I've aged and gotten more mature.  I don't know.  I just really enjoy it.  I love being in front of the crowd and just taking the whole thing in instead of thinking, oh, this is going to be so hard.  I try to look at it in a different light.  It's really helped me the last couple years.
Q. I just spotted the ribbon on your hat.  I'd like to ask you about Dawn Coe-Jones and the tribute to her this week?
ALENA SHARP: Yeah, I didn't really know that it was happening.  I saw it on Twitter.  Lori had tweeted something out about it, and I'm really happy to see that we're honoring her.  I remember last year she was fairly sick at this point, and I put her initials on my ball at this tournament last year, and just really thought about her.
When I hit a bad shot, I didn't let it bother me, because it's perspective, you know.  Someone's fighting for their life that shouldn't be fighting for their life at that young of an age and I'm out here playing golf.  I shouldn't be getting upset over golf shots.  So I think same thing this year.  She's always on my mind.  She was such a great mentor to all of us Canadian kids.  She's definitely not forgotten, and I'm glad we're honoring her this week.
Q. Do you remember playing your first Canadian Open and what that was like?
ALENA SHARP: I feel like it was Niagara Falls.  It was so crazy.  I was so nervous on the first tee.  I know I hooked it left to the rough.  It was rough up to your ankles and I had to chip it out.  It was just amazing being announced on the tee, and I had a lot of people watching me.  It was just like, whoa, this is what it feels like to be on the LPGA.  So glad I've gotten over that.
Q. (Inaudible)?
ALENA SHARP: No, I hope not.
Q. When you compare that to where you are now, how long did it take you to learn to play in front of the crowd here?
ALENA SHARP: I think it's taken me quite some time.  I had a good finish my second year out on Tour in 2007 to finish at Royal Mayfair.  I finished seventh there.  I failed to miss the cut at a few, and then I made the cut here in Ottawa the last time we were here.
Definitely put way too much pressure on myself coming into this event, specifically, because it's like our major.  It is our national open.  Everybody talks about a Canadian winning it, and you just dream of doing that.  I think trying to just, you know, that's on the back burner, but you've just got to stay focused and really enjoy the time when we're out there, and that's what I'm doing now.  Before I didn't think it was a burden, but I just felt like I had so much weight on my shoulders to do well.
I've already had a good year coming into this event, and I know that I'm playing well enough to give it a shot to be there on Sunday, and that's the goal.
Q. How many times have you been able to play around here, and also, what do you think about -- what is going to be the key this week?  Is it an off the tee kind of golf course, off the greens kind of golf course, or second shot golf course?  Some thoughts on the Ottawa hunt this week?
ALENA SHARP: Yeah, good question.  I've played it three times now.  I feel like the rain is going to make the rough thicker -- not thicker, but harder to play out of.  It's long but it's not densely thick, but you can get into some nasty lies out there.  So definitely key in on driving.
I don't think it's a narrow course.  So you can kind of get away with an errant tee shot if it's not too far off line and still have a good shot at the green.
The greens are a little bit tricky.  They're subtle.  Brooke gave me a tip on that saying they're really subtle breaks.  Just being in the right quadrant, like any golf course, but I think here it's important because the greens can be quite big and there is some undulations in them that you want to be on the correct side of the hole.  The grain is tricky too.  So just every day you learn a little bit more.
I'm glad I get to play tomorrow and just have a another shot at the course before Thursday.
Q. You're one of 14 Canadians in the field this week.  Golf Canada seems to be such a thriving program.  I know you're involved in coaching through Tristen and your work with the Olympic team.  Where do you see the future of Canadian golf going?
ALENA SHARP: I think it's on a great track.  Golf Canada has done amazing things.  The kids have great coaches.  They have a great physio program, a great trainer.  They're on track for nutrition, and all those little things that add up it that really get you to the top.  You'll see more names coming up.
The amateur team is a great team, and they're probably going to turn pro in the next few years, so golf in Canada is in good hands, for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT