LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 12, 2017
Alena Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You got it rolling there; rain came.  
ALENA SHARP: Long delay.  It was okay.  I mean, we had -- we just played two holes.  It was fine.  I played well today.  I putted well.  Everything was right there.   
It was nice to get off to a good start.   
 Q.  What do you do to try and stay sharp when you're standing around for 45 minutes?  
ALENA SHARP: Keep it light.  Dory and I were talking.  Talking to my caddie.  Talked to some of the other girls that we were on the same tee.   
It's weird.  We don't usually stay in position like that, so it was different.  Normally we come in and then go back out, so it was just like a waiting game.  I went to the bathroom.  Just tried to keep myself busy so I wasn't just sitting there thinking about what I had to do coming in.   
 Q.  Tough to ramp it up again after that?  
ALENA SHARP: Well, I didn't hit the right club on 8.  I think just sitting there for that long I probably should hit one more club, because I was not loose, I guess.  It was in a good position and I had two good putts at it.   
Coming in I was happy to make two pars coming in because the wind switched so it was playing longer.  Normally it's the other way on 9, so it was definitely a lot longer.  With the rain too it was wet, so it wasn't an easy finishing hole.   
 Q.  Put yourself in a good position going into tomorrow?  
ALENA SHARP: Yeah, lots of golf to be played.  I just feel I worked hard in the off week.  I didn't have the last --  this last month hasn't been great, but I really practiced hard and worked on my weaknesses last week, and I feel positive going into this week.   
It's nice to see the hard work already starting to pay off.  I worked hard on my putting and I started making putts today.  It's always good walking off the golf course feeling that.   
 Q.  You said your weaknesses.  What do you consider to be your weaknesses?  
ALENA SHARP: I've been hitting it well, playing well, just not getting ball in the hole.  Looked at my stats, talked to my coach, and we looked -- from 4 to 12 feet I haven't been making as many as I usually do.  That's what I worked on a couple hours a day, just doing drills and making them until I got kind of like to the point where, Okay, I need to stop practicing now because I'm not concentrating.   
So I putted a lot.  Megan Khang was in Phoenix last week, so we were practicing together.  We played a couple like little competitive games, too.  That got me into it more.  Just needed to spend the time, and I did.  It's nice to see putts going in today, and hopefully tomorrow, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT