RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 28, 2016
Alena Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Take me through the day, obviously in relation to other British Opens, very different setup.  Overall thoughts?  
ALENA SHARP: I like the course.  It reminds me of being at home in Canada.  Doesn't remind me of a British Open style course.  It's in great shape.  The greens are tricky.  You need to know where you're hitting it to on the greens, because the slopes, some of the pins are on the slopes today.  Just knowing the course a little better would have been nice, a couple shots.   
But overall, it's gettable, because there's not a lot of wind.   
 Q.  How many practise rounds?  
ALENA SHARP: We played Monday, the back nine, and then played all of them yesterday.  Saw the front on Tuesday, just walked around.   
 Q.  I think that's the biggest challenge everybody says is the slopey greens and knowing where to hit.  
ALENA SHARP: Yeah, and I think off the tees, too, it's not a whale-away at it kind of course.  You need to place it.  Hit a lot of 3-woods on the front nine more just because of the doglegs to be in the right spot.   
 Q.  Was it last week, Canadian Open, how was that?  Tell me how you got involved in doing it with the Canadian Olympians.  Was it an oh, my God, this is happening moment, where you guys got together finally?  
ALENA SHARP: Yeah, they told me maybe a month and a half ago they were going to do the announcement at the Canadian Open.  Just made sense.  I was up in Hamilton where my parents live, and it was only a 20-minute drive.  I didn't have to fly across the country to go to it.   
It was very cool.  Got presented the jacket by our chef did he mission, Curt Harnett.  There was an old fighter plane that flew by at the opening of it, and Scott Russell announced us, and he's like the main CBC guy for Canada.   
So it was pretty cool.  You know you're on the team, but just to get the jacket and for it to be an official announcement, it was pretty nice.   
 Q.  And to be with the guys, too?  
ALENA SHARP: Yeah, because we don't see the guys a lot.   
 Q.  What else last week, took time off?  
ALENA SHARP: Yeah, took some time off.   
 Q.  How many weeks did you play?  
ALENA SHARP: Eight in a row.  I've never done that in my career before.  The most I've ever done is five.  I took, after Monday, I had an outing, so I had to do that but then I didn't touch a club till Friday.  I would have taken more time off but we had this.  So next week, I probably won't touch a club for a week.  Just to get ready for Rio, be rested and recharged.   
 Q.  What are you doing for Rio preparation?  Have you looked at any course stuff?  
ALENA SHARP: We're lucky, because our coach went down there, went during the test event and walked around, Tristan Mullally.  He made notes, made green notes.  When we get there, we're going to know where we're hitting it.   
We're going to Houston for a two-day camp to practise on the same kind of grass.  Won't be the same weather because it's going to be super hot, and from there it's an easy flight down to Rio.  We're doing that for two days on the 11th and 12th and we get out of there on the 12th, the night of the 12th.  We get there the 13th.   
 Q.  How pumped are you?  
ALENA SHARP: This year's gone by so fast.  I can't believe it's going to be August 1 on Monday when we leave.  We're really excited.  Just last week, getting the preview and getting some of the uniform, it's amazing.  Just to be down there and be around everybody else, it's not just a golf tournament for us.  We're looking at it to be part of the bigger picture, much bigger.   
 Q.  Going into the next three days, obviously in good position.  What to keep the same, what to change?  
ALENA SHARP: Today was kind of weird.  It didn't start off very well.  I was 2-over through six holes and then made a couple birdies to get it back right away.  I holed a shot out on 12 from 40 yards over the water.  It was like kind of a scary shot, and hit the green and rolled right in the cup.  The next hole, I almost holed it out also, like eagle, birdie, and was 3-under and then birdied 15.  I played steady all day.  I made a lot of good putts.  Just keep doing what I've been doing.  I've been working hard all year so happy, a little bit of refresh and get a good night's sleep tonight and go after it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT