CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 21, 2015
Alena Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 1-under for two days, you're definitely playing on in the weekend.  How do you feel?
ALENA SHARP: I feel great.  I haven't made the cut at the Canadian Open I think since 2009, so it's been a long time.  I played well the last two days.  Left some shots out there, but I have lots to look forward to on the weekend.
Q. Is this momentum from last week, as well, do you think?
ALENA SHARP: Definitely.  I have more confidence.  It's been building over the months, so it's nice to have more high confidence coming into this event than I have had in a long time, so I'm happy about that.
Q. Take us through the round today.
ALENA SHARP: Started off really well.  Could have birdied the first five holes.  I was 2-under through five, and then made a couple bogeys and just restarted again, birdied 18 and just played solid on the front.  Left some putts out there.  Missed some left-to-righters.  I'm going to work on those on the putting green.  But other than that I'm looking forward to the weekend.
Q. The weekend is supposed to be clearer and sunny and the course hardening up a little bit.  Do you expect it to be faster?
ALENA SHARP: It's going to be tougher because they are getting a lot of release already.  So to really pay attention to pins and land the ball; be more accurate that way, be under the flags, because the greens are fast from above.  You can't be aggressive putting for birdie.
Q. What does this mean as a Canadian playing on home soil; it's always tough and everybody feels the pressure.  What does it mean to be a Canadian playing here?
ALENA SHARP: If you look around, there's so many people here.  The crowds are amazing and it's always like that at the Canadian Open and everybody is always cheering for you.  It's that little extra pressure you put in your mind because you want to play well for the hometown crowd.
Being a Canadian, being here, is just an amazing feeling.  Doesn't matter that I'm from Ontario.  The people here, they make me feel at home.
Q. It's one thing to make the cut; but you'd like to go out and win this thing.
ALENA SHARP: Yeah, I'm not too far back.  I've got to do something tomorrow, moving day.  So we'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT