CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2011
Alena Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: All right. We'd like to welcome Alena Sharp into the interview room. Thank you for joining us today. First off, can you just give me some thoughts about being back in Canada and getting to play at home?   
 ALENA SHARP: It's always -- I love coming back and playing Canada. I feel like it's the biggest tournament of the year for me and for most Canadians, and it's nice to get to play in basically almost every province since I've turned pro now playing in the CN Canadian Women's Open, and I haven't played golf in Montreal before, but I've been in Quebec before. I played the amateur in 2003, I think it was in Blainville. So it's nice to be back in Quebec.  
 THE MODERATOR: I was talking to Lorie Kane when she was in here just about the state of women's golf in Canada and how many great young players are coming up from Canada. What are your thoughts on seeing the amount of talent that's been coming out of Canada?   
 ALENA SHARP: We have a lot of really top college players coming up and even junior golf. Golf Canada's done a great job of sponsoring, getting our girls competition and playing against the best players in the world, and they're becoming better players for it, and you're just seeing the results show, and we have more players on tour this year than we've had in the past, so that's a good indication of it.  
 THE MODERATOR: And just your season in general, kind of how would you describe how you've been doing this season and where your game's at coming into this week?   
 ALENA SHARP: I started out really well this year and had a little bump in the road by my results. But I've been working on my mental game to get back to where I need to be.   
 And golf really is 90 percent mental, 10 percent physical. You can work on your swing and putting and chipping as much as you want, but if you're not confident, the scores won't show.   
 So that's what I've been working on the last month, really hard on that. And taking a little bit of a break from the practicing. I think I just overdid it for a little while. So just trying to stay fresh and relaxed, and this week's always a pressure week for the Canadian golfers. And just trying to keep it light. My parents are coming in tomorrow. And just having a good time.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. Lorie was talking about the influence some other Canadian golfers had on her like Dawn Coe-Jones. How about yourself when you were coming on tour? Who were influences for you?  
 ALENA SHARP: You know, when I was in college golf, AJ was kind of the person that I looked up to. She went to New Mexico state. I went to New Mexico State. But looking on the tour, Dawn Coe and Lorie were on tour when I was junior and an amateur and playing well and winning tournaments. So to follow in their footsteps and get that win, that's my goal is to win tournaments. So they did that, and that's what I would love to do.   
  
  Q. How do you like the course? You had the chance to practice on it today. Is it very challenging?  
 ALENA SHARP: Yeah. I played yesterday in the Pro-Am, and it was very wet. The last three holes are 400 yards, so they were kind of into the wind, at least two of them. So I felt like it was playing a little bit longer. Who knows what's going to happen until Thursday if we don't get any rain, it dries out a little bit.   
 There's some strategy off the tee, a lot of doglegs. You need to make sure you're on the right part of the fairway. Some holes a couple of them on the doglegs the trees block you. So definitely you need to place your tee shots, and then the greens are very large. So hitting the green isn't always going to be guaranteeing you a birdie. You want to get in the right quadrant on the green.   
 But I like the golf course. It's got a lot of different holes, and the greens are in good shape. Actually everything is in really good shape. The rough isn't as long as we had last week, but still challenging.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 ALENA SHARP: Yeah. She's caddying for Brittany Lincicome. She was on the PGA, caddied and then game to the LPGA her first week and I think she won with Brittany at the Atlantic City tournament, ShopRite.   
  
  Q. A lot of Canadian golfers dream about winning the Canadian Open. Is it a dream of yours, something you've fantasized, pictured yourself doing?  
 ALENA SHARP: Definitely. I mean it would be -- obviously every year we come here everybody's like, okay, a Canadian hasn't won since the 70s. And they do it to the men, too. And every Canadian player would love to win a Canadian OPEN, just like most Americans want to win the U.S. Open.   
 But obviously -- yeah, it's a big dream of mine. I would hope that I can get a shot at it before I retire. So I have a lot of years left in me, and hopefully this week I'll be in the running come Sunday onto that last green.  
 THE MODERATOR: Any more questions? Thank you very much for joining us.   
 ALENA SHARP: Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT