LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 11, 2010
Alena Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ALENA SHARP: It's just a matter of putts going in. The back nine seems to be my favorite side. I made a lot birdies on the back side. The front side today I hit the ball pretty well and just the putts weren't going in.  
 So turned on No. 9 and made a birdie and birdied 10, and just kept going.  
  
  Q. There's a big bunch at 10-under right now at the top of the leaderboard. To head home and have a little time this afternoon to relax and know you're coming back tomorrow near the top of that leaderboard has got to be a good feeling.  
 ALENA SHARP: Yeah, that is good feeling. I haven't been in this position in a while. It's only through 36. We still have 36 more to go. There's a lot of golf to be played.  
 I just want to take it one hole at a time and not get ahead of myself.  
  
  Q. The wind today, I mean, there was some wind yesterday. We figure, oh, my gosh, the wind is really a huge factor. I'm sure it's a factor today, but, I mean, did it work for you as much as...  
 ALENA SHARP: Well, you just got to know -- well, I'm hitting will ball pretty solid so the wind is not moving my shots that much. But if you have just a little tail on it, it takes it and it's gone. I stay committed to every shot that I hit. I missed few shots and let -- the wind rode with it.  
 But was happy with the way I struck it. Yeah, the wind is a big factor. It's really gusty out there. There's a couple holes that are playing a lot longer than they usually do.  
  
  Q. A couple in particular, for example?  
 ALENA SHARP: 15. It's kind of into the wind off the tee. Normally we can cut the corner, but this year we can't. We have to kind of hit it down the fairway. And then I had a 5-wood in yesterday and a 4-iron in today.  
 Normally I hit it over the corner and have maybe an 8-iron in. So it's a big difference. It's like 60 yards.  
  
  Q. Any other hole?  
 ALENA SHARP: No. 3 is long as well. It was into the wind today. I hit a 5-wood in there.  
  
  Q. Right. Just so far this year, is this kind of the best - midway through - the best situation you've been in?  
 ALENA SHARP: Right now, yeah. I've played well the last couple weeks that we've played over the last month and a half. So I'm happy to be in the position I'm in.  
 I'm putting well, and that's the one thing that held me back last year. I started working with Dave Stockton, Jr., and it's really -- I started working with him in March, and now we're into June and it's really helping.  
  
  Q. Katie Futcher was just through, and I think she works with him, too. I mean, just your personal experience, anything in particular that seems to make him effective?  
 ALENA SHARP: I think that he just makes it simple. I wasn't -- I didn't have a consistent routine, and now I do. I think that's a huge difference for me. He changed my grip, and that helped, too. And then just sticking with it.  
 You know that it's good, so you just got to keep with it. It may not show results right away, but they're showing now. I was more consistent with sticking with one thing this year on my putting instead of thinking, Oh, it's this this week and it's that next week.  
  
  Q. Uh-huh. One last thing. The schedule has been kind of off and on, but now we're starting like five weeks in a row. You probably played in Mobile, I would think.  
 ALENA SHARP: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Since then did you play in the match play?  
 ALENA SHARP: No, I unfortunately didn't get into the match play, but I played in a 36-hole U. S. Open qualifier and qualified.  
 We've had two weeks off, so it's hard. But I like playing lots of tournaments in a row. I'm really looking forward to the next five weeks, and then we have one week off and then we go to Europe.  
 So we're getting into the heat of our schedule now.  
  
  Q. Yeah, this is the start of a long stretch. You're from where in Canada?  
 ALENA SHARP: Hamilton.  
  
  Q. Ontario?  
 ALENA SHARP: Just south of Toronto.  
  
  Q. Okay. Maple Leafs fan? Everybody is excited about the Blackhawks here.  
 ALENA SHARP: Yeah. I was excited to see them win, too.  
  
  Q. Yeah. That's one of the original six. This is Mason-Dixon, so St. Louis Blues and Blackhawks. Hey, thanks a lot.  
 ALENA SHARP: Thank you.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT