CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2008
Alena Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ALENA SHARP: I played really well today, I thought. Obviously it's bittersweet bogeying the last hole, but I went for the green and took a risk. Hit a bad bunker shot and left myself with a tough chip.   
 Other than that, I'm really happy with the way I played. I kept it in play today. I was nervous on the first tee. Hit a bad tee shot. But other than that, I putted quite well and hit the ball much better today, so I'm looking forward to playing tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Was there a score you had in mind?   
 ALENA SHARP: Obviously you always want to shoot under par, but I had it to under Par with five holes to go and I bogeyed three of my last five.   
 So it's out there. I think I'm out of contention now to win, but still feel like I can still shoot around a 67 here, and that would be a great way to finish tomorrow. Get back into red numbers.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ALENA SHARP: Yeah, I mean, obviously I was a little nervous. It was nerves, because I hit the ball well after that. Maybe I just need to take a deep breath and take my time a little bit more. I got up there and just wanted to get off that tee I think instead of thinking about hitting it at my target. Maybe that was the problem.   
 Made a great bogey and was happy to make bogey and not make a double on the first hole. Missed it on the next hole, but made a couple good birdies coming to get back to under par.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ALENA SHARP: No, I just enjoy it. Haven't played with Natalie before. I've played with Suzann a few times. I just enjoyed my day out there. I kept it up with them. I'm just as good as them, and they proved it to me. I just have to believe in it.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ALENA SHARP: I just hit a few shots to the right. Maybe a little fade with the wind pushed it into the rough and m missed the putt for par on 16. 17 I almost made birdie, and 18 I just didn't hit that -- hit a good wood in there. We were waiting, and didn't put the best swing on it.  
 Other than that, I'm not really upset with anything. It was a nerve-wracking day not knowing when you're going to tee off. Managed my time well this morning and came out here and I had fun out today.  
  
  Q. Any friends or family in attendance?  
 ALENA SHARP: Yeah, my parents are here and some friends from Toronto.   
  
  Q. You think you're out of contention, so what's the thoughts going into tomorrow?   
 ALENA SHARP: I think obviously I just want to finish under par on this golf course. I think it's just a tough track. Obviously always want to try and get a top 10. I haven't had one yet. I had my first top 10 ever out here last year.   
 It's not out of reach. I know that maybe -4 par tomorrow might get it. Just play one shot at a time and keep the ball in play.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ALENA SHARP: Well, I couldn't chip out. There was too many trees, and I took the risk of -- I would have (indiscernible) in the bag if I was going to chip out into the first fairway.   
 So if I would have just hit that ball a little bit further I would have had a wide open shot. I hit a good wedge up there and just nicked tree or else I thought it was going to be right in the center. Knocked it straight down, but made a good chip and made the putt, so I was very happy with negative 5.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ALENA SHARP: The second hole is really short, and then I struck my drive on the third hole and didn't have a problem with it the rest of the way around. It was just nerves on the first tee. I haven't had hit a shot that far left in a long time. Hopefully that'll be the last one I hit.   
  
  Q. Is the tattoo new?   
 ALENA SHARP: A spray-on tattoo. Yeah, everybody had a tattoo on. I covered mine up so I wouldn't lose it. I like the Leafs and it's a blue Maple leaf.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ALENA SHARP: No. They did, but I didn't put it on.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT