CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2007
Alena Sharp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Well, that has to be a pretty good feeling.  You had a pretty good round.  Are you happy with it? 
 ALENA SHARP:  Yeah, I'm happy with it.  I wasn't hitting the ball very well on my first nine holes, and I got it around on the back nine.  John, my caddie, helped me out, and said my timing was pretty -- a little bit off compared to normal, and worked on that on the back nine.  I think I missed two greens on the back nine but I was putting. 
 I putted really well today on the front when I wasn't playing so well, I was making great up-and-downs and great long putts.  So I'm very happy with the way I started.  It's nerve-wracking the first day of the Canadian Open being a Canadian, so I'm very happy. 

 Q.  You played well at the British Open? 
 ALENA SHARP:  Yeah, I played well at the British.  It was amazing to be over there and playing on that golf course.  I played really well when it was calm.  When it was windy I played well, I just didn't score as well.  It was my best major finish so far, and I was really happy to finally play well on the weekend. 
 It's a great feeling to come over here, and now we have four in a row and we start off the four in a row with this round today is a great feeling in my mind. 

 Q.  You said nerve-wracking.  What's nerve-wracking? 
 ALENA SHARP:  Well, all this buildup all week.  I got here on Sunday night, and everybody is cheering for a Canadian to win.  It's not like I'm thinking about that, but it's always in the back of your mind because you see everybody is rooting for you, and it's just a special week for Canadian golfers. 

 Q.  Talk about your year so far. 
 ALENA SHARP:  My year has gone a lot better this year compared to last year.  I learned a lot last year, and now I'm playing golf the way I should be, not playing to make the cut.  My ball-striking has gotten a lot better this year.  I've got my putting going a lot better now as I putted well in Toledo and the British Open and today.  I'm really looking forward to the rest of the year.  I can see something great coming, and hopefully it'll be this week. 

 Q.  Is that what it is, just confidence, once you start playing not to survive but playing to compete? 
 ALENA SHARP:  Yeah, and it also helps when you start off on a good note and you're not worried about making your card for the rest of the year, and I feel like last year I worried about that way too much. 

 Q.  What do you take from some of the other golfers who are Canadians that have come before you and gone down the path?  What do you take from that experience and what have they talked to you about, things like that? 
 ALENA SHARP:  Well, they just tell me to keep doing what I'm doing, and that's what I'm trying to do.  I'm just doing the things that I do well, and it's getting better every week.  It's great to play amongst some great players out here like Lorie Kane and Dawn Coe-Jones.  They swept the way for Canadian golf, and I hope that I can continue the tradition and keep it going and get some younger players to come up and follow in my footsteps. 

 Q.  Is there a story behind the buckle? 
 ALENA SHARP:  I got it this week from a guy named Trevor.  He's A.J.'s swing coach.  He started this company up that's called 59, and he made belts for a lot of different -- not just Canadians but a lot of players out here this week, and I thought it was really cool, so that's why I'm wearing it. 

 Q.  You have a Maple Leaf head cover on is it the 3-wood? 
 ALENA SHARP:  My driver. 

 Q.  Is that your team? 
 ALENA SHARP:  Yeah, I like the Leafs unfortunately. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT