ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 16, 2020
Nanna Madsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Final day 65.  You took the course apart out there.  Tell me about your round?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   It was a pretty good round.  Yeah, I hit it to a lot of chances and made more putts than I have the last three days.  I'm just happy with my round.
Q. Was that eight birdies in total.  What was it today that you woke up, did you just feel it today?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   No, not really.  I was a little lazy at the range and a little sore.  I was like, okay, we'll see what happens.  I didn't really get anything out of my round yesterday.  I was not really in a good place mentally.  So I think I didn't really have that many expectations for today but I was just trying to move it a little bit up the leaderboard.  Yeah, it worked out.
Q. Do you feel like with the pressure off, your best golf came?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   Yeah, I'm always better if I don't have too much pressure on.  I think so.
Q. What was different maybe about today than the last couple of rounds, do you think?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   I hit as many greens, same as the other two days.  I just hit it a little bit closer and then I made the putt today and I did not make any putts the other days.
Q. Talking with your caddie he said it was more defensive putting earlier this week.  What changed for you to go on the greens the way you did?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   I think I didn't get anything out of it the last three days, so I figure, I might as well go for it.  If you put it two meters short, it's never going to go in, and it's better to see the line going after the hole, you have a better chance of holing it.  It does actually have a chance to go in the hole.
Q. How confident are you in your game at this point?  You have a whole tournament under your round right here.  We're about to go into a major championship.  After that time off, when you look at your game, where do you think it stands?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   Way better than I was expecting going into this week.  I feel really comfortable going into next week.  If I can just work a little bit more on the putting and the distance control, I feel like next week could be good.
Q. Your caddie was also saying that you could have won by five shots this week.  Do you agree?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   Well, it's all mentally, as well.  I wasn't better yesterday.  So the game is there, yeah, but you need the head, as well.
Q. And what's it like for to you come back and be this strong?  I know you said at the beginning of the week that you didn't really know where it was and now that the game kind of matters, it's there.
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   Well, it's awesome.  I was kind of afraid, I'm like, am I ever going to find my golf game again, because when I'm home, I'm not really playing that well.  So I'm just really excited that it's actually there when I'm back and competing again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT