ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 14, 2020
Nanna Madsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. I feel like a consistent and even-par day is still a success with the winds and what it's like out here.  What's it like for you?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   Yeah, I've been pretty happy with my game.  I hit like 15 greens yesterday, 17 today.  I just -- I made some putts but I just haven't made as many as I would have liked to.
Yeah, my only bogeys came out of 3-putts, so yeah, if I can get some more putts going in, then definitely good.
Q. What's it been like gearing up for Scotland and the LPGA Tour and LET all over again?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   Well, at home we had quite a lot of wind, so I was like, yeah, that's fine, I'm going to Scotland.  I was a little bit nervous coming into this because I didn't know where the game was.  We played a few events in Denmark, guys' events, which is good just to have an idea where the game is, but yeah, you never know when you're into it again where the game is going to be.
Q. You were playing the ECCO Tour with Nicole and Emily.  What was that experience like for you?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   It was fun.  Mostly we were just happy we got a chance to play during coronavirus.  There was a discussion about what's fair, what's not fair.  Maybe the first one was not fair, and the second one was not fair for us either.  It's tough to put up a course for both guys and girls, but it was fun.
Q. You spent quite a lot of time with them through this entire quarantine and your family, what was that like?  We don't usually have on the LPGA Tour that kind of break, ever.
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   I started playing professional in 15 and haven't been home that long at all since then.  It was fun having a longer period at home and knowing you're going to be home for a long time.  But then again, once we finish the first three months, you're like, okay, I really want to get back to playing.
Yeah, I love playing and I love competing.  I don't really love practicing that much.  I was just really excited to come out and compete again.
Q. How comfortable do you feel you are on links-kind of courses, or is it just a challenge that you would want to accept?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   I feel quite comfortable.  I like playing in the wind.  I feel like I have okay control of the ball.  I think this course plays a little bit long, so that's probably good for me because I hit it a little bit longer.  But yeah, I like to play links for a couple of weeks a year.  I think it's really fun.  I probably wouldn't do it every week because I don't like the rain but we're really lucky this week.  I like it.  It's fun.
Q. A lot of girls coming over from Toledo, you coming from Denmark.  What has the first couple days in Scotland been like for you going through the protocols, and has the transition been weighing on your mind at all?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   A little bit because we've been quite open in Denmark the last maybe two or three months.  So it's really like going back six or five months for us because we haven't even had the mask on or anything in Denmark, so it was quite new.  But I get it.  We really need to be careful that we're not going to spread anything, so it's totally understandable.  It's fair enough.
Q. What's it like going into the weekend, three shots off the lead right now, even having an even-par day, what's the focus going to be for the next two days?
NANNA KOERSTZ MADSEN:   I'm just going to try and keep my long game going and then see if I can be a little bit more secure on the distance and on putting.  It's not really the aiming.  It's just the speed control.  I'm going to work on that and see if it gets a little better hopefully.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT