SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2013
Jaterra Bonds
Amanda Butler
Sydney Moss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're now joined by Florida head coach Amanda Butler and student‑athletes Jaterra Bonds and Sydney Moss.   We'll start with an opening comment from Coach Butler. 
COACH BUTLER:   We're obviously very disappointed.   We didn't come here to play close or make it respectable, with any other expectation except to win. 
Tennessee did a great job of getting themselves to the free‑throw line and really capitalized on those opportunities. 
We did a below average job of defense in the first half.   In our locker room, we thought that was the story of the game.   Played a tough and gutsy second half.   Against a good team, you can't pick and choose.   You have to bring it possession by possession.   Have to give credit to Tennessee the way they played throughout. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for the student‑athletes. 

Q.   Sydney, can you talk about your mindset going in against Tennessee. 
SYDNEY MOSS:   My 22 points was because of my teammates.   They found me really well.   I was being aggressive.   So my mindset was just kind of being aggressive and finishing, so... 

Q.   You trailed by seven when Simmons went out with four fouls.   Do you think that was an opportunity for you? 
JATERRA BONDS:   Restate the question.   I didn't understand what you were asking. 

Q.   When Simmons went out with four fouls, you trailed by only 7.   Do you think that was an opportunity that was lost? 
JATERRA BONDS:   Whether she was on or off the court didn't dictate what we were doing.   We didn't execute offensively and defensively.   Whether she was on the court or not didn't factor into what we were trying to do.   That answers your question. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for Coach Butler. 

Q.   Going forward, what do you want your players to take away from this? 
COACH BUTLER:   The brief conversation we had in the locker room, and we'll have much more in‑depth ones as we go into the next phase for us, we still got a lot of learning to do, a lot of growing up to do in terms of how to bring your best over and over and over again, possession to possession to possession, half to half. 
We still have too many people that play a great second half or lead us in the first half and then are nowhere to be found the second half.   That process of learning what my best is, and I think we're getting closer to realizing that, doing a better job of being more self‑aware.   What my best is and how I continually put that at the forefront, that's where we're at. 
We're not as consistent with that as we should be. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT