KB FED CUP, FINAL
September 19, 1999
Elena Likhovtseva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Elena, how would you characterize your play today?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: I think I played all right, and I think that Lindsay played good at
the key points, at the end of the sets, and she served very well. And I had my ups and
downs. My play wasn't consistent.

Q. Elena, you seemed to start moving Lindsay around late in the first set. Was that a
goal to get her moving on the court?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: Yes, but it's very hard to get her moving, because she's playing
very deep. Her game -- her strokes are very deep; so it's hard to bring it back and put it
wherever you want, the place you want.

Q. What was your mindset today going out there, knowing that your team was down two
matches to nothing?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: I think today was less pressure, because I was more relaxed. And it
was just that Lindsay played better than I did. I think that I played all right.

Q. You had a lot of break points on her serve, at least a few seemed like -- are you
disappointed you couldn't have done more with her serve?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: Yes, I think so. And then later in the second set, I just started --
I didn't win any first points on her serve, and she got advantage right away.

Q. Elena, this probably could turn out to be 5-0. What do you think it would take to
make a Fed Cup a little more competitive, this final, clearly the United States definitely
has the upper hand here?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: I don't know. They are very good, and they can beat anyone, any
team, 5-Zip. We can't borrow any players from them, right? (Laughter.)

Q. If you were captain, what would you have done to get Kournikova to play from the
beginning of Fed Cup?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: I don't know what has been done. I don't know if -- I know that they
tried contact each other, and there has been some talks going on between Federation and
Kournikova, but I don't know what sort of talks it was. For me, I just don't know what's
the problem.

Q. You're her best friend and talk to her a lot. What did she tell you?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: Well, I don't think that we talk a lot about the Fed Cup. So it's
just -- it was entirely her decision to play or not to play.

Q. Do you agree with that decision?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: This is her decision.

Q. Elena, looking back on the year and Fed Cup, is it satisfying that you guys did
reach the finals? Is it positive to look back on how far you guys came?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: Yes, definitely. I think so. Because as a Russian team, we never got
that far, and the team had qualified from the bottom, you know. We started from the very
beginning; three years, we got in the finals.

Q. What's the toughest part of Lindsay's game?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: I think her serve, it's very hard to return, and she can serve
whatever she wants, and with the speed or flat or topspin. And her ground strokes, they
are very deep; so it's very hard to return them back. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT