KB FED CUP, FINAL
September 18, 1999
Elena Likhovtseva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Elena, how would you characterize the match today?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: I don't know. I think it could have been a little bit better from my
side because I think I just overrated, maybe, Venus. I thought she would play maybe a
little better than she did play. And I thought that her strokes would be maybe stronger,
and she would be more aggressive. But I don't think that she was.

Q. So then you're up a break in the second set and you seem to have things somewhat
under control, and what happened, you kind of fell apart in the last few games?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: I don't know. Myself, I still don't know what happened, and I still
have to go through with my coach and decide what -- yeah, seemed like I was controlling
the situation, but I don't think I was. So maybe I was just a little bit too nervous or I
just wanted to win the set, and I was thinking too much.

Q. Did your forehand let you down at some key moments today?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: My problem was my footwork. I was hesitating on my footwork, and I
just -- I had to just go for a shot. Not think about how to make the shot, just go for it.

Q. Was that because of nerves?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: Yeah, probably.

Q. Elena, you talked yesterday about how generally the team is happy to be here, and
you would obviously play the best you can. Does it feel very much like an uphill battle?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: No. I think it's just my problem, the way how I felt generally. Just
nervous a little bit.

Q. How much pressure is there in this match for you? Venus talked about feeling hardly
any; that she's working on different things in her game, and she's not too concerned out
there. Do you feel that way or was this more pressurized of a situation for you?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: No, maybe it's just -- no. I don't feel as much pressure as I do
during my Tour matches. It's just maybe I had an opportunity in the second set and I just
didn't use as much as I had to.

Q. Elena, is Anna Kournikova totally estranged, total distant from the Russia team,
from playing for Russia, or would you like for her to play for Russia at some point?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: Well, I haven't talked to her since the tournaments before the US
Open. And then she hurt herself, and I don't know how she feels right now. But I think she
is a very good player; so she would be a help for us at some point. But now, she's not
with the team; so we're just trying to play with the players that we are now.

Q. But is she playing -- not playing for political reasons?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: I don't know. I haven't talked to her.

Q. Did you expect her maybe to come and sit on the sidelines and support the team that
way and cheer?

ELENA LIKHOVTSEVA: I don't know. I haven't talked to her because I know that she was
hurt, and I don't know what she's doing right now. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT