CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 17, 2003
Paul Gow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks for stopping in, Paul, rounds of 66, 69.  You are the clubhouse leader at 9-under.  163 on the money list.  Obviously the end of the season is very important to you, as would a good finish be this week.

PAUL GOW:   Absolutely.  I've got nothing to lose and a lot to gain.  Making it through and being in contention, I don't think that's going to hold up today, but if I'm three or four off the lead going into the weekend.  I will forget how bad the rest of the year has gone and focus on this week.

TODD BUDNICK:  You've always talked about that your season seems to get going summer to the fall, but this year in particular you really have had a lot of struggles to start the year.  You got off to a poor start.

PAUL GOW:   It's been a struggle, but that's the game of golf.  Some years are going to be good and I'm no Tiger Woods or David Toms.  I'm just a Joe Blow, just one of the numbers out there.  I realize that, and you have to take the good years and bad years together.  This is a bad year and I'll still make $300,000 or $400,000, so it's not too bad.  I won't slit my wrists.


Q.   Talk about the day.  The conditions seemed tougher this morning.

PAUL GOW:   Absolutely, the course was defenseless yesterday with a little bit of wind.  They tucked the pins in nice positions, it's going make it a lot more difficult.  They need to do that.  I think they'll run out of pin positions because there's none left.  It will be interesting how it plays this afternoon.  The gusts of the wind that are going across the golf course, one minute you can have it and the next minute you won't have it.  I'm hoping it will blow this afternoon.


Q.   Anything kind of change midway through the year?  It's such a stark difference early on, struggling to make cuts.

PAUL GOW:   I left my golf coach that I've had seven years.  I left him at the end of last year and went 10 months without making a check.  I went back to him $250,000 lighter.  It wasn't one of my smartest moves, but that's been the difference, I'm getting back on track to what he wants and what he likes, it seems to work for me.


Q.   Who is your golf coach?

PAUL GOW:   Gary Edwin, he's an Australian coach.  


Q.   The stats said you missed seven greens in a row.  Is that true?

PAUL GOW:   Today?  I probably hit it on a lot of fringes, because the pins are three and four from the edges.  That's probably right.  I holed one off the fringe.  The stats are right, but they're wrong.


Q.   How did you play today compared to yesterday?

PAUL GOW:   I played good.  I played solid.  My problem normally is the left-to-right breeze.  That means things are getting easier if I can hold the ball up in the breeze, I can actually play.  I actually didn't putt that well.  I'm going to practice this afternoon on the greens, and you never on know.


Q.   Seeing Adam and Stuart win recently, does that make you think you could win out here because you can compete with them when you're playing well?

PAUL GOW:   Without those guys winning, I think anyone can win out here.  That helps.  I'm happy for them, to win, it's always good to see an Australian win.  I can win out here.  I'm definitely not as good a player as those guys.  They can do it more times than I can, but I can probably do it once or twice a year.  I just have to take the rest of the year off.

TODD BUDNICK:  Walk us through your round. You had a birdie on two.

PAUL GOW:   I hit it just off the front edge and chipped it to about a foot and made that.

Bogey on 6, there is a big false front that's about the size of Ayer's Rock, and I 3-putted from the front edge there.

Then birdied the next, hit it just behind the hole, just off the green, it was about eight feet, and made that.

And then chipped in from over the back on the 8th hole, which was a birdie yesterday, too.  That was very fortunate.

Then I birdied the last, which was about 25-footer.


Q.   What did you hit in there?

PAUL GOW:   Pitching wedge.  It was a beautiful last hole.

TODD BUDNICK:  Thanks, Paul. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT