BUICK OPEN
August 1, 2003
Paul Gow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Paul Gow who is sitting in the middle of the fairway.  You're 5 under, 11 under for the tournament, but obviously you would have liked to get it done before the weather situation.

PAUL GOW:   Yeah, absolutely, I had a wedge into the last.  And then looking at the scoreboard, but the Tour has done the right thing.  If it's stormy out there and we are in danger, they did the right thing. 

TODD BUDNICK:  Looking back, though, you really don't get started until July.  Even on the Nationwide Tour, your top finishes all come from July on.  So you are heading into your best part of the season.

PAUL GOW:   It works every year that that's when I play good.  I guess the weather gets hotter for me.  I like that sort of conditions.  I like the golf course hard and fast because I'm not a long hitter.  Plus I'm really slow.  I've always been slow.  That might have something to do with it.

TODD BUDNICK:  What has been the struggle so far this year?

PAUL GOW:   The golf swing, I haven't been swinging it very good.  But the last four weeks has been real good.  It's getting better and better.  So this week is probably the best it's been in probably four years.  I've hit a lot of good iron shots and drives, and the putts haven't dropped just yet.  I've hit some bombs and some short ones.  It's all sort of gelling at right time of the season.

TODD BUDNICK:  No bogeys so far through 35 and a half holes. 

PAUL GOW:   Yeah, the golf course is set up for not many bogeys, anyway, because the rough is not up, the greens are soft and the fairways are running a fair bit.  So if you do get into trouble, you can chip out and get somewhere near the green and get it up and down.  So I think that's the case with a lot of players, you'll see low numbers.


Q.  You said the Tour did the right thing.  Don't you think there should be some raindrops or at least threatening skies before they call it off for the day?

PAUL GOW:   Not at all.  Sometimes we've had bad weather all year this year.  What happens is it's upon you before you know it.  I could walk out of here and get hit with lightning.  So they have got to worry about the spectators, the players.  They will take care of the players first and then they will get the spectators.  For so many years, they have done a great job, with the weather guys on site.  We all respect their decisions all the time.  No one really argues because we don't really want to get hit with lightning. 


Q.  Is it tougher getting stopped on the 18th fairway, or would you have liked it if you were on the fourth fairway?

PAUL GOW:   Yeah, it probably is.  But I'm on a yardage on last hole,  where I warm up like everybody else, I have 120 or 130 yards.  I'll have to stand my caddie on the practice fairway about 130 yards.  It's tough, because I made two birdies in a row, everything is going my way.  So we'll find out if I make triple or birdie. 


Q.  How many months a year do you play here? 

PAUL GOW:   I live here now.  All year basically.  I only play a couple of he vets in Australia.  I live in Orlando with my wife and child.  We live over here all year so I play as much as I can. 


Q.  I thought I saw you on the Golf Channel playing in December, January.

PAUL GOW:   Yeah, at the end of the year I go back and play three to four events after I finish my schedule year here.  So the last few years I've played 42 events around the world.  So it's a bit tiring.  This year I am probably going to go back and play two, so if I have that many weekends off, it won't matter.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT