NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 13, 2015
Matt Dellavedova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How are you feeling physically at the moment?   Obviously there was that quick treatment for the rehydration, then Game 4, as it turned out.   What advantages has the break had for you and the team?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I think the extra rest will really do us well.   Just giving you extra time to get all your treatment, recovery, food and hydration.   I think we're all going to be ready to go for Game 5.  
   
 Q.   I'm just wondering how you are personally, physically, after the big Game 4 and Game 3?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I'm feeling great.   I'm feeling a lot better and really ready to go for Game 5.  
   
 Q.   And how are you‑‑ do you feel as though you've gotten into the head of Steph Curry?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   No, I mean, I don't think you get into the head of a guy like that.   He was the MVP for a reason.   He's a cool, calm competitor, so I don't think so.  
   
 Q.   He just said that he plans to attack you more one‑on‑one.   He's not going to wait for another defender to come.   So is that something that you guys have prepped for for Game 5?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Well, I guess it will be now.   So thanks for letting us know.  
   
 Q.   You can send me a couple of dollars my way.   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   All right.  
   
 Q.   You've played with him for a year now.   How strong physically is LeBron as a player?   I mean, just his ability, his athleticism?   What have you seen from him in terms of his strength?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I mean, I've never seen anything like it in any sport, certainly up close like that.   He takes more hits than anyone out there and just keeps going.   The most interesting thing is just the amount of work he puts into his body in the weight room with his trainer, Mike.   It's pretty impressive, and definitely learn a lot about his work ethic in that regard.  
   
 Q.   It seemed like the first three games you really were the aggressor toward them.   Was the difference in Game 4 that they attacked you more?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I probably wouldn't say that.   I think both teams have been pretty aggressive all the way through.   But I expect that Game 5 will be pretty physical by both teams.  
   
 Q.   Do you expect to feel physically in a different place than you were on Thursday night?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Yeah.   I think I'll definitely feel better.   Yeah, extra day's rest for everybody is going to be really good for us, I think.  
   
 Q.   One of the things that separates Steph Curry from so many other players that you might have the opportunity to guard is his ball‑handling ability.   How would you describe his ball‑handling ability?   What is it like to try to keep him in front of you when he makes moves with his ball handling?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Yeah, so obviously tough cover just because we're shooting but then when you add in his ball‑handling ability with both hands and the way he moves and kind of glides across the court, yeah, he's pretty tough to keep in front of.   So that's why you need to not relax for a second.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever seen anyone on any country, any stage that dribbles the ball as well as Steph Curry?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I mean, Kyrie's handle is pretty crazy as well, having to guard that in practice every day.   But I think, obviously, with Steph's ability to shoot it off the dribble, combined with that, makes it pretty tough.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the small ball lineup being the reason for success in Game 4.   What are you guys going to do differently come Game 5 to combat that?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Oh, well, I can't tell you that.   I can't give away the game plan.  
   
 Q.   We've got to ask.   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Why do you think the team found it a challenge, then, on Game 4?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I guess it's probably guys were guarding people they're not used to guarding.   They knocked down shots, but I think we'll be ready for Game 5.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT