NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 10, 2015
Matt Dellavedova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I guess the major concern, I see you've got two cups of water there.   Dehydration was the report.   Take us through what happened after the game last night in terms of the medical side of things for you?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Thanks for that.   Just cramped up a little bit, and then they thought the best form of recovery would be just go to the hospital for a little bit, get an IV.   So, you know, feeling pretty good and obviously trust the medical staff here.   They do a great job.   So, yeah, feeling good.  
   
 Q.   You've become a little bit of a cult figure here.   But back in the Bay Area they're having watch parties for Saint Mary's alum, for Cavalier fans, for you.   Could you just speak to the people out there and your fans out in the Bay Area?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I mean, Saint Mary's is a very special place to me.   That's my home away from home.   It means a lot that those guys are all still supporting me even though in enemy territory, so to speak.   So it's pretty cool to know that that's there.  
   
 Q.   Watching you and LeBron play now on court, you seem to have a great chemistry, did he have any conversations with you prior to the season about what he sort of expected from you this year?   Or did that synergy just happen organically?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   He talked to everybody a little bit about what he expected out of the players and things like that.   Then I think it's just kind of grown as the season has gone on, especially in the playoffs.   But, yeah, I think most connections on the court happen organically, like you said, and just through experience and playing out there together.  
   
 Q.   Would you take us through that shot you hit and you kind of rubbed off LeBron's pick, and Curry was on your hip and you were falling and all that stuff?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Yeah, well, the shot clock was run down a little bit and LeBron threw me the ball and kind of set a pick‑and‑roll and just tried to turn the corner.   Curry was on me.   Yeah, kind of bumped me off balance and just put it up and banked it in.  
   
 Q.   Did you call glass?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Yep.  
   
 Q.   How long were you at the hospital last night, and do you expect to practice today?   How much do you expect to play tomorrow night?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I was there for a little bit, but mainly just to rest up and recover.   We all take it pretty easy today just to get our treatment, and we've watched tape and things like that.   So, yeah, I'll be ready to go tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a chance to talk to Kyrie and what words of encouragement and advice did he give to you?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Yeah, I saw Kyrie this morning, and he was in good spirits.   So it was good to catch up with him.   He's a hundred percent behind us and just said keep going.  
   
 Q.   Can you just kind of describe what you went through physically last night, and have you ever had anything like this before?   Have you ever played to the point of basically exhaustion?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Well, I felt like I've pushed the limit a few times, but that's probably the tightest I've been.   Yeah, no, I'm feeling good now though, so it's good we don't have to play back‑to‑backs.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything you have to change in terms of either the types of fluids that you're drinking or the times that you're drinking them or the amounts to be able to kind of withstand the way you're playing and so forth?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Yeah, I mean, we're doing a lot of things and trying to tick all the boxes in terms of hydration and nutrition and different forms of recovery.   
So it's something the training staff are talking to me about.   Yeah, so we've got a few different things in place.  
   
 Q.   Are you cutting out anything that's not like filled with electrolytes?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Right now it's just getting as much fluids in as you can and just trying to eat a lot.  
   
 Q.   You set an Australian NBA Finals record with your 20 points.   What's that mean to you to surpass Longley and create some history?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Well, I didn't know that, but Luc, great Australian player and did great things over here in the NBA.   He's actually an assistant coach for our National Team right now, so it's been great getting to know him and really learning a lot off him.  
   
 Q.   How are you handling all the superstardom as things are going mental on Twitter back home and also here, some of the puns, at our Delly there is no Curry served here, and all that stuff?   How are you handling all this attention?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   To be honest, I'm not really paying attention to any of it.   Just locked in on the goal and the job that needs to be done.   So, yeah, that's about it.  
   
 Q.   Matthew, are you an annoying player?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Am I annoying player?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Well, I've never played against myself, so...  
   
 Q.   Would you find yourself annoying?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Yeah, I think I would.   In college guys would try all kinds of things to just distract me or get under my skin and things like that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT