NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 6, 2015
Matt Dellavedova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts now that you know Kyrie is officially out for the series?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Oh, I mean, it's obviously a tough break for him and the team, obviously.   But he put in a lot of work to try and get his knee right for the series, so it's very disappointing for him.   You know, you never want to see a teammate go down like that.  
   
 Q.   How much more difficult does this make the climb now to win this series without him?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I mean, it's always going to be tough.   You're playing against a really good team.   We're going to be ready tomorrow to come out and try to get a win.  
   
 Q.   Are you expecting an increased role for you?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   We've talked about a few things.   But it would look like we're obviously going to get a few more minutes.  
   
 Q.   How does it change your mindset?   It's a bigger stage than the Eastern Conference Finals.   This is The Finals, so how does it change?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I don't think the approach changes.   Just go into every game just trying to do whatever the team needs me to do to help the team win.   I don't think the approach changes.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I mean, I guess that would be one positive that you've always got to try to find the positive.   We have won a game without him or two games without him.   
So Atlanta and Golden State are different teams, but they both like to move the ball a lot and shoot a lot of threes.   So, you know, there are some differences.   Their guards like to penetrate more.   Golden State always still likes to shoot it, but I think there are some similarities there.  
   
 Q.   What did you learn the other night to make everybody active defensively?   Was it more difficult to get shots off against them?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   They're a good defensive team, as they've proven all season.   We've looked at some games and we'll be ready to go on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I mean, it was no big deal.   I was just talking to my family after the game.   Yeah, just happened to miss the bus.   But it was all good.  
   
 Q.   Bogut said he wouldn't have given you a ride if you had called him.   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Oh, that's not very nice of him.  
   
 Q.   He said maybe in the regular season.   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Oh, I don't know about that.   I'd probably give him a ride.   Yeah, I got a ride.   All good, so no big deal.  
   
 Q.   Obviously this is a big stage.   But any special significance this is where you went to college and just sort of being here?   
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I mean, it's always special to come back to play here.   I obviously played four years at St. Mary's which is about 20 minutes away.   You know, it's nice to have a lot of close friends in town and just feel very comfortable in this area.   I've been to this arena a lot of times before playing here, so I feel pretty comfortable here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT