NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 5, 2015
Matt Dellavedova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I mean, they're doing things that they do all season.   They're going to make runs because they're a really good team, obviously.   Just got to keep making them show (indiscernible) especially in transition.

Q.   What's it like to guard Steph? 
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Obviously he's a tough cover, and it's not one person.   He comes off low screens, it's a team defensive cover, but he's obviously the MVP for a reason.

Q.   Does it help having the family around?   Does it relax the nerves?   What sort of impact does that have for you? 
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   It's great having my family here.   You know, they've supported me the whole way through.   I definitely wouldn't be here without them.   So it's nice.

Q.   How did you take all the stuff from the last round, everybody calling you this and that?   How did you personally deal with it? 
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   I mean, I was pretty annoyed by it to start with.   Then between Game 3 and 4 just pretty much turned off the phone and just prepared my body and watched the tape and got ready for Game 4.

Q.   Did anybody from the Hawks say anything after the fact, after the series was over?   Maybe saying we were a little overzealous, any apologies given or anything?
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   No, you just shake hands after the series and just say good luck and stuff like that.   No worries there.

Q.   So you and Bogut aren't talking for the time being, but we always ask him what he thinks of you and vice versa.   He said you're a gritty asshole on the court, but one he'd like to play with.   How do you feel about that? 
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   Well, from him, I'll definitely take that as a compliment (laughing).

Q.   What's it going to take to get a win in Game 2?   You guys did a lot of good things in Game 1.   Golden State, a lot of guys are saying they didn't think they had their best game yet still were able to come up with the win. 
MATTHEW DELLAVEDOVA:   You know, we're going to have to play a good game, obviously, to beat them on the road.   They've had a great season and a really good team.   Yeah, we did a lot of good things as well, but I don't think we played our best game either. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT