PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2019
Ryan Vermeer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, a different day and obviously a little bit less off the shoulders.  Could you speak about what happened to you out there.
RYAN VERMEER: Obviously it's perfect weather out here.  And I didn't hit the ball that good today.  I hit it okay.  I putted really well.  So I was able to scramble and kind of keep myself in it.  Kind of unfortunate to make a couple bogeys late in the day when I -- honestly, the holes were not hard.  And I hit a good drive on 16, it just happened to be really close to the long cut of rough.  And when I took my second shot, I hit the back of the club into the first cut, and it turned the club way over.  So that ended up being a really ugly shot.
So it was a little unfortunate to finish with a couple bogeys.  But in all honesty, the way I putted today, I kept myself in it.  And it could have been worse.  I didn't hit the ball that great.  I hit some good shots, but overall it wasn't that good.
Q. This isn't your first go-around in here, but what's the week been like?
RYAN VERMEER: It's been awesome.  Obviously, having been my third time, I kind of knew what to expect going in.  Actually, of all the places that I've played, this is by far my favorite golf course that we've played.  I like the grass conditions.  It's more similar to what I'm used to playing on.  So even though it's really tough, I know how to chip out of long rag grass.  I understand what's going to happen out there.  So it's definitely a challenge, but I at least feel comfortable with what's going on.
And on the greens, I mean, the three tournaments that I've played in the PGA, these are hands down the best greens that we've putted on.  I mean, they are so pure.  If you can read them, you can make them.  So for that, it's been a heck of a lot better experience for me.
Q. Are you able to sift through the support and some of the texts from your friends and family?
RYAN VERMEER: Yeah, it took a while last night, but I actually tried to avoid it for quite a while yesterday afternoon and ended up being a lot more stressful than I was anticipated it being.  So I just kind of put my phone away and wasn't watching it.  And then when it finally was official, my phone was going crazy, and I was on my way to dinner, to I tried to avoid it as long as I could.
Q. How long was your wait to find out?
RYAN VERMEER: I tell you what, it came down to the last few groups out there.  So I didn't really think it was official, official, until really there was like four or five guys left out on the golf course.
Q. So we're talking, what, 7 o'clock or --
RYAN VERMEER: Yeah, it was about 7 o'clock.  I felt like I was on pins and needles all afternoon.  And when I left here, I felt pretty confident that it was maybe even going to go to five.  So it was definitely a long afternoon.  But obviously coming into the week, if you would have told me I would have been sitting there at least with a chance, I would have been okay with too.  So, you know, it was what it was, but, you know, I was happy to come out on the good side of the cut line.
Q. Since the number out of the professional championship has been cut to 20, and most people to make the cut was this year.  How important is it for the club pro to represent themselves as well as they have this week?
RYAN VERMEER: Obviously, I think it's really important.  This year in and year out is the toughest field in golf, and that is with 20 club pros playing in it still.  I remember reading last year on Twitter some comments about people saying, you know, there's 20 club pros playing and whatever.  But, I mean, it is our championship, so I think, deservedly so, we have 20 spots.  But it is very important that club pros come out here and play well.
I mean, that being said, the way these golf courses are set up, it is very difficult for a lot of the club pros.  You can hit it 295 yards through the air to compete.  So you see guys that maybe aren't even really that far off their game, but they just can't play on a golf course where they're going to hit fairway within a lot of the par 4s.  Having three of us make it I think is a big thing.  I'm super happy that I'm one of them, and hopefully tomorrow we can have another good round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT