AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 3, 2019
Kaleigh Telfer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Was that a 3-under with which you were happy or was it a frustrating 3-under?
KALEIGH TELFER: I was very happy with it.  I started off not hitting too many greens, but making a lot of putts and then towards the end of the first nine and on the back nine, I started hitting greens and I started to make those putts, too.  It was a good round.
Q. Just one bogey, isn't it on the fourth hole.  Let's start from there.  What happened there?
KALEIGH TELFER: I actually hit a good drive down the middle of the fairway, and there's like a tree in the middle of the fairway, and I was hitting a punch shot and it came out a little bit high off the face.  It was a good shot and I thought it was good and then it just hit the tree at the last minute, so fell down.  Fell through.
Q. Tell me about the birdie on the last.  That must have felt good.
KALEIGH TELFER: Yeah, my coach, or, well, my caddie and I, said --
Q. He's also your coach?
KALEIGH TELFER: Yes.  He coaches with me at home.  He just said, come on, let's finish strong.  I mean, I hit it to about 15 feet on the last and my coach gave me a great line and I made it.
Q. So was this the kind of round that you were looking for to begin with?
KALEIGH TELFER: For sure.  It's always nice to start with an under-par round, and going into tomorrow, just do what I did today and see how it goes.
Q. And tell me, you got a special invitation from this tournament.  When did you get the invitation and were you expecting it?
KALEIGH TELFER: Honestly, I wasn't expecting it, no.  The selections had gone out before I got the phone call, so I thought I had just missed it, and I knew I was very close.
But when I got that phone call about two weeks after the selection, I was just over the moon and glad I was close enough to get that.
Q. Where were you when the phone call came in, and did you receive the phone call?
KALEIGH TELFER: Yes, I received the phone call, I was actually walking to class.  I was very excited, yeah.
Q. What happened after that?  Did you prepare especially for this tournament after that?  Was this an extra motivation to do well this week?
KALEIGH TELFER: It's always a motivation coming out here.  It's one of the best tournaments I've ever played in.  So yes, but I also had a few college tournaments leading up to this.  So that just helped me build my confidence going into this week.
Q. Can you tell me something about last evening, how special was it?
KALEIGH TELFER: It was incredible, every moment.  I had goosebumps the whole night.  Experiencing the history and everything behind Augusta National is incredible.
Q. So many South African players have won at Augusta National, did you get a chance to speak to anyone or get a tip from anyone?
KALEIGH TELFER: Actually, no.  My coach from Auburn had a friend that is a member there and I got a few tips from him, but not really, no.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT