NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 7, 2011
Chris Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Chris Kelly.
 CHRIS KELLY: It was their decision for the four games. I think they're trying to take that kind of hit out of the game. Four games being the rest of the playoffs for him, so I'm sure that had something to do with their decision. 

 Q. They're losing a sixth defenseman and you're losing a top-line player. 
 CHRIS KELLY: Like I said, Nathan has been huge for us. He's a big part of the reason we're here. He's a tough guy to replace. 

 Q. When you see that kind of suspension, does that make you think twice about delivering a hit? You play a physical game. 
 CHRIS KELLY: Yeah, but like I said before, common sense, knowing when someone is in a vulnerable spot, comes into play. You never want to see anyone on the ice like that, regardless if it's your team or the other team. 
 It's part of the game obviously that the league wants to take out. 

 Q. Does the punishment fit the crime or can it? 
 CHRIS KELLY: As a player, we're not in that situation to make those calls. Obviously, we put people in place to make that kind of decision. Four games they thought was enough. 

 Q. Have you talked to Horty? 
 CHRIS KELLY: I haven't. I know a few guys have. I guess he's doing better today, but still you never, ever want to see a guy hurt. 

 Q. When Luongo gets rattled, is that something you can take advantage of, and maybe that could carry over into the next game? 
 CHRIS KELLY: I hope so. Obviously he's an elite goalie for a reason. We didn't get as many great scoring opportunities as we would have liked in the first two games out in Vancouver. Obviously it was nice to put as many as we did past him last game. 

 Q. Explain the success on the PK for you. We thought that was a big advantage they would have in the series. 
 CHRIS KELLY: No, I think we're playing as a unit out there. We're hopefully taking away their time and space, obviously not giving them too many great opportunities. 
 But at the end of the day, that's our job as penalty killers, is to go out there and kill that penalty off. 

 Q. Is there momentum on something like that on special teams as confidence builds?
 CHRIS KELLY: I think so. That can go both ways. There's been times that our power-play has gone out, had four or five shots in the two minutes, hasn't gone in. But it's given us momentum for shifts after that. 
 It goes the other way with killing a penalty. If you go out there and do a great job, don't give them momentum, it goes the other way. 

 Q. How much of a motivator was the hit on Horton from last night?
 CHRIS KELLY: I said it before. I don't know if it was a motivator. You never want to see a player on the ice. I think we did a good job of rallying and realizing that the ultimate goal was to win the game, kind of put emotions aside. I think when guys got an opportunity to play a bit more, they stepped up and did a great job. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT