THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2008
Craig Parry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. First one out this morning at 6:30. You're huddled here with your patter proofs on. What was that like?  
 CRAIG PARRY: Bloody miserable. It was really tough. It was an honour to hit the first tee shot, but after that, you know, it got really hard.  
  
  Q. Well, around in 77, and I was talking to Sandy Lyle earlier, who managed to complete nine holes, and he said 75 would be an outstanding score. Are you pleased at the circumstances to get in with that?  
 CRAIG PARRY: Oh, yeah, very. It was just really, really tough out there. The number of holes -- 16 holes were into the wind. My 3-wood was going about 180 yards into the wind. You could probably putt it further than that. It's just one of those days where we just had a miserable time out there, and hopefully it doesn't keep blowing like we've had so far.  
  
  Q. This is your 17th Open Championship. Is it the worst weather day you can remember?  
 CRAIG PARRY: It's the worst opening day I can remember, but I can remember worse days.  
 The golf course itself is a lot harder than any other Open that we've played, Carnoustie, and the length of it, it's just really hard.  
  
  Q. How do you keep yourself going, because a lot of things go by the wayside in these conditions. Is it easy to say, I don't need all this?  
 CRAIG PARRY: Well, you've got to go out there and do your best. No one gives up, otherwise you wouldn't be playing in the Open Championship. All the guys that play here, they do their best to have a never-say-die attitude. You've just got to grin and bear it and do your best.  
  
  Q. You were born in a place called Sunshine, Victoria?  
 CRAIG PARRY: Yes.  
  
  Q. Not much of a joke on a day like today, is it?  
 CRAIG PARRY: I was home a couple of weeks ago. We were swimming in the middle of the winter in the ocean at home. So I don't know about the guys that come back over here and live over here in summer because it's brutal out here today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT