FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 6, 2005
Craig Parry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Some thoughts as defending champion?
CRAIG PARRY:  Well, it's obviously going to be exciting coming down the stretch with Tiger and Phil going at each other.  I played really well this week.

I had only two bogeys for the week, one on 18 and I 3-putted a hole yesterday.  So that was pretty good golf for me.
Q.  What is it like to come out here and play that well and then, basically, that's going on?
CRAIG PARRY:  That's fine.  I don't have a problem on that at all.  As long as I go out and play well and take care of your own game and don't worry about anything else that's happening on the golf course.
Q.  Is it exciting for everyone involved when something like this is taking place?
CRAIG PARRY:  Oh, sure.  It was great to play with Tiger yesterday.  He played so many good shots and finished off his putts and made birdies.  It was great.
Q.  When we have a finish like this, why is this good for golf?
CRAIG PARRY:  It's exciting.  You know, raising the bar again.  20-under par for the Blue Monster.  Well, we all have to go out and practice a little bit harder again.
Q.  Talk about your round.
CRAIG PARRY:  I never got going.  Just hanging in there, really.  Didn't seem to make enough birdies on the front nine and the first hole I hit a poor chip shot.  I thought the greens were going to be a little bit slow but they were quite quick today.
Q.  Nobody has repeated at this tournament in 30 or 40 years; why has that been so difficult?
CRAIG PARRY:  Well, it's always difficult to repeat no matter where you're playing.  It's just that someone is going to go out and play well.  You play well this year, you might not play so well the next year.
Q.  Are you pleased that you were in contention pretty much throughout?
CRAIG PARRY:  Yeah, I played pretty well this week.  I was very happy with, two bogeys, as I said earlier, and I played well.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT