FORD CHAMPIONSHIP AT DORAL
March 4, 2005
Craig Parry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome back defending champion Craig Parry who is at 9-under, 135 through two rounds here, a bogey-free day for you today.  Nice run around the course.
CRAIG PARRY:  Yeah, I didn't have a bogey yesterday.  All of my birdies have just been adding up on the score card.  I had plenty of opportunities yesterday and didn't make any; whereas today I really did capitalize and shot 6-under.
TODD BUDNICK:  Great start with birdies on 1 and 2 to get you rolling.
CRAIG PARRY:  The first hole I hit a sand iron to three feet and the second hole I holed it from the edge of the green.  I was trying to get it near the hole.  The rest of the day, I went in runs.  I think I birdied 10, 11, 12 and the rest were pars.
TODD BUDNICK:  Take some questions.
Q.  Heck of a save on 18.
CRAIG PARRY:  That was a heck of a save, yeah.  I wasn't looking too good.  It was downwind and I didn't know if I could carry the water hazard and the previous hole I actually pulled my driver and went left.  There was no way I was going to pull it left and go in the water so thought I'd better go right.  It went with the wind right of the trees in the path and somehow I had a little bit of a shot and hit 6-iron and caught the palm and it still kept the ball going toward the green and went into the bunker.  I hit a very good bunker shot out to about four feet.
Q.  Did you have a full backswing?
CRAIG PARRY:  Yeah, I had a full backswing.  I didn't have the follow-through.
Q.  How close were you on 18 yesterday?
CRAIG PARRY:  To the green?  Oh, I hit it right again yesterday, as well.  I hit 6-iron in.  But I actually hit a good shot from the right side that landed about eight feet from the hole right on line.  I thought it would go in and I might have another two.
Q.  What would you have guessed -- when you heard about Esteban, that's off the charts, isn't it?
CRAIG PARRY:  That's freaky, isn't it?  I'm glad it wasn't Scott Verplank last year.  (Laughter.)
TODD BUDNICK:  The funny thing, too, is he was the first player to play 18 so it was back-to-back.
Q.  Verplank, he hit first?
CRAIG PARRY:  Oh, did he?  Last year, yeah.
Q.  The odds on that.
CRAIG PARRY:  Oh, it's freakish.
Q.  Your brother caddied for you last year?
CRAIG PARRY:  Yes.
Q.  He's back again?
CRAIG PARRY:  Back again this year.
Q.  Is every other routine the same, getting up a minute before your tee time?
CRAIG PARRY:  You're not going to believe it, we slept past the alarm today.  I put the alarm clock on PM rather than AM.  (Laughter.) So at 6:30 this morning, he's going, I think we'd better get up.  He's going, "No one's going to believe this."
Q.  How much time did you have to get up here?
CRAIG PARRY:  Oh, I had about 50 minutes.  I had plenty of time, but it was funny, just the way it happened.
Q.  What time did you have it set for?
CRAIG PARRY:  I had it set for 6:00
Q.  6:00 PM?
CRAIG PARRY:  Yeah, 6:00 PM tonight.  So the alarm will go off tonight.
Q.  Those clocks are a nightmare, I still can't work out how to use mine.
CRAIG PARRY:  I bring my own.  I've got two.  (Laughter.)
Q.  So just to make sure I've got it straight, you miss-set your own alarm clock?
CRAIG PARRY:  Yes.  (Laughter.) It would be all right if it was in the afternoon but it was in the morning.
Q.  Do you always bring two?
CRAIG PARRY:  It's only after last year.  Probably have to get three.
Q.  Why don't you order a wake-up call?
CRAIG PARRY:  Oh, that's too hard.  (Laughter.)
Q.  Did you have time to go to the range and all that?
CRAIG PARRY:  Yeah, I had plenty of time.  I was having orange juice and a muffin before I went out.  I had plenty of time.
Q.  How are conditions compared to yesterday, after all the rain?
CRAIG PARRY:  It dumped down last night.  I was surprised we were actually going to go out there and play because I knew how much it rained last night and the golf course turned out pretty good today.  It's soft and the guys are going to go and shoot low numbers.  I would have thought the leaders this afternoon are going to go out and get to 14-under I would imagine, at least, even though there's a little bit of wind around.
Q.  How is your game right now in general?
CRAIG PARRY:  I'm very happy the way I'm playing.  I played well in Australia and then won Heineken and then went over to New Zealand and had a week off and played The Match Play last week.  Match-play, it's hot and cold, whereas I always like playing Doral Golf Course.  The golf course suits my eye a lot, just getting out and playing it.  I would prefer it a little bit windier.  We've had really no wind at the moment.
Q.  Is it windier today than yesterday?
CRAIG PARRY:  A little bit windier.  The only hole we really had wind on yesterday was the third hole, we played driver, 4-iron, straight into me.
Q.  I understand you bartended here last night?
CRAIG PARRY:  Well, ended up having a drink rather than bartending.  It was easy, getting a beer and drinking it rather than giving it to someone else.
Q.  How was your driving today?
CRAIG PARRY:  I drove the ball better on the first 16 holes.  It was the 17th and 18th, I pulled a drive on 17 and it went left into the rough.  On 18, I hit it right, protecting going into the water.
Q.  What was the distance from that tree to the front of the green on 18?
CRAIG PARRY:  Today, it was about 167 yards but the wind was left-to-right.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through the birdies, Craig.  What did you hit in on 2?
CRAIG PARRY:  2, I hit 3-wood off the tee and I hit 8-iron into the green.

8, I hit driver and then I hit 7-iron because I've got to get across the water.  Then I hit a sand iron up pretty close.

10, was good drive, a 2-iron, chipped up with a lob-wedge from about 15 yards off the front of the green.  Went to about 12, 15 feet.

11, I hit my 2-iron, heaven wood down the fairway and 8-iron to about two feet.

12, I hit driver, 2-iron again and then I hit 6-iron to about 15 feet.
Q.  How have the galleries been this year as far as recognizing you?
CRAIG PARRY:  I haven't seen any.  They have all been watching Tiger.  (Laughter.)
Q.  You must have a few?
CRAIG PARRY:  Yeah, it's been good.  There's about four of them out there.

The spectators have been fantastic, the ones that have followed us.  It's been good.
TODD BUDNICK:  They know who you are here.  I've seen you out signing autographs.
CRAIG PARRY:  Yeah, I'll be out with Tiger tomorrow so I might see a few more.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT