BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 9, 2019
John Lamot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Florida State - 38, Boston College - 24   
 Q.  It seemed a lot of what Florida State accomplished today was on five or six plays. Is that something that you have to eliminate those chunk plays and this would have been a different outcome?  
JOHN LAMOT: Definitely. I mean, I feel like we played a good game defensively in the first half other than letting up the one big touchdown play. Second half, we tried to hone in on limiting the big plays, and I feel like we did so. I feel like they sustained a little more drives down the field, and then of course like you said, the big plays. And that's I feel like something as a defense, that's one of our goals is to limit big plays in order to win, and we didn't do so today.   
 Q.  John, it seemed there were a lot of missed tackles. Was that more BC or was that something about Florida State that they were hard to tackle?  
JOHN LAMOT: I feel like it was a mixture of both, but I feel like those are some tackles, different angles, I guess. You can't really tell, but at the end of the day, we have to still stick to our fundamentals and wrap up and come up with a body part if you want to go into the tackle like that.   
 Q.  All season long you guys have been called a young defense, and I'm sure you're sick of hearing that. Is it still fair to call you young or do you feel like this shouldn't be happening as consistently as it is?  
JOHN LAMOT: Yeah, I mean, we've got guys that haven't started previously, but they've had enough playing time and experience to limit, I guess, that excuse, so I feel like that shouldn't be an excuse anymore. It's not really an excuse in the first place. So yeah, I feel like we've just got to play better.   
 Q.  What's the attitude after a bye week next week? You've got two road games, Notre Dame and Pittsburgh. What's the attitude in terms of achieving some consistency and becoming bowl eligible?  
JOHN LAMOT: We've just got to finish. I feel like we play with a lot of effort, and we've got the heart and the passion but I feel like we have a problem with finishing at times. I feel like we get to the moment and we falter. I feel like we've just got to stay positive and keep encouraging each other and just stick to the game plan and just believe and finish.   
 Q.  As far as the missed tackles go, is there a quick fix, a way for you guys to get more consistent heading into the last couple games of the year?  
JOHN LAMOT: Just practice. We practice it every day. Yeah, every day, every week. We've just got to keep doing it and it's about confidence. We've just got to keep our confidence up and just keep going at it every day.   
 Q.  What's it been like in terms of difficulty or just kind of navigating some of the injuries you've had to deal with in the last couple weeks?  
JOHN LAMOT: I feel like injuries are a part of the game, so the next-man-up mentality has come into play, so I mean, when your number is called, you just have to be ready. It's not really an excuse that we have injuries. Everybody has injuries, so I don't think we can use that as a reason why we lost or going forward use it as a reason of anything, yeah.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
JOHN LAMOT: Right there, yeah. Yeah, I thought I hit his arm, but he made a great play and they scored, so you've got to live with it, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT