NBA 2K LEAGUE DRAFT
March 5, 2019
Fred Mendoza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Frederick Mendoza was selected by Raptors Uprising Gaming with the No. 15 overall pick in the 2019 NBA 2K League Draft. His gamer tag is I'm So Far Ahead.
Q. Where are you from?
FRED MENDOZA: I'm from Woodbridge, Virginia.
Q. So not too far to go?
FRED MENDOZA: No, not too far.
Q. What's it like for you?
FRED MENDOZA: It's incredible.  I was here last year, and it feels even better this year.  You know, I'm playing with two other great guys at the moment.  I know they're going to do a great job of selecting the next three great players, too, and I'm just excited to get to work, and I just know me, Kenny and Trey, we already have great chemistry, so we're familiar with each other, and I think it'll be a smooth transition.
Q. What did you learn in your first season playing in the actual league that you can bring to the table this year?
FRED MENDOZA: Oh, I definitely learned that chemistry takes you a very long way.  Some of the best teams in the league, everything was about chemistry.  I felt like us as a team last year, some people on paper might say that we didn't have the best team, but we had great chemistry, and I'm that type of player.  I bring great chemistry to teams, and like I said, me, Kenny and Trey, we've been playing all of 2K19 together, so this is going to be smooth for us.  We're used to playing with each other, so this is going to be great.
Q. Last year, correct me, you were a fourth-round pick?
FRED MENDOZA: Fifth.
Q. You didn't get cut by the Pistons, but you showed out in Pro-Am this offseason on No Smoke.  You've gone from fifth round to now a first-rounder.  How's it feel to be back in the league as a first-rounder?
FRED MENDOZA: Man, it feels good.  Honestly, the hard work pays off.  That's what means most to me.  I worked my tail off last year and this year.  I came up relatively quick on the scene.  Last year was really my first year on the scene.  This is my second year.  This is my sophomore year in the league and also my sophomore year playing Pro-Am and all that other stuff.  It's only up from here, and then I've got great leadership from Kenny and Trey.  I know how hard they work and how diligent, and they pay attention to details.  Just can't wait to get to work.
Q. How did not being retained -- how did that motivate you to go hard?
FRED MENDOZA: Yeah, so definitely felt like I was worthy of being retained, but regardless, things work out for the best, so I'm here now, and just need to work really hard.  I needed the spot back.  I needed it back more than anything, and now I'm in a spot that I probably couldn't -- I didn't think I was going to get here to be honest.  I thought I might have got picked higher, but really blessed to be here because it's a great team, and man, I just can't wait to get to work.
Q. What position do you play?
FRED MENDOZA: I play any position for this team.
Q. Today's game, obviously the three ball is such a big deal.  Do you think it plays as much of a role in the 2K game?
FRED MENDOZA: Yes, of course.  You know, because there's a lot of close games that it'll be like a one or two-possession game, and it comes down to one or two threes that one team took that another team didn't.  One thing that us three, we jokingly say we play each other, but if you're on a fastbreak and you've got that three, pull it, so that's how we're going to play.  We're aggressive scorers, we look for our shots, and I have confidence in them, they have confidence in me, and it's great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT