U.S. SENIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 21, 2016
Tim Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIM JACKSON: I played terrible.
Q. It was kind of a miracle that you got this far.
TIM JACKSON: Yeah, I couldn't do anything. I missed from 10 feet. I couldn't drive the ball in the fairway. It was just disgusting. But I hung in there. I scrambled and did what I could. I competed.
Q. You can't play defense either and he knocked that one on 17 that looked like you might have a glimmer there and bring it to 18 all square.  And then he goes and hits --
TIM JACKSON: He made two good putts in a row there.  When you win matches like that, that's what you do.  I've done it before and I've had it done to me, that's just the way it is.  The problem was I never gave him anything -- I never put any fear in him, because I didn't step up there and hit any shots. Other than the few shots on the last three or four holes but by that time it was kind of just throw away the first two holes.
Q. As disappointing as you played, sometimes it can be like, if it's not a one-hole deficit you can just look back at the missed one on 14, that was huge, because you --
TIM JACKSON: Yeah, that was just a lapse in concentration.  I got over it and I just blanked out.  I can't explain it.
Q. Was there anything with your swing?  You were struggling, you didn't really find what you wanted to on the range between rounds.
TIM JACKSON: You could see it: I hit shots left, I hit shots right, I don't know. I'm at a total loss for why. The first part of the week I was hitting the ball pretty good and then once I got toward the end of my first-round match, I started hitting these loose ones to the right. And then I fought it all day yesterday. But I was more timely yesterday and I was phenomenal with my chipping and putting. I got it up-and-down every time. That covers up a lot of shortcomings.
Q. From that birdie on 14 this morning, and you did it against Brian yesterday as well in the morning.  That can overcome a lot, but ultimately it's going to bite you, right?
TIM JACKSON: You can only fool it for so long. You're playing six matches, so I played five matches and sooner or later it just catches up to you. It just piles up and piles up and I was trying to stay confident and stay into it and it was just hard.
Q. I could see you maybe a little down after a couple of those where you just, you can't force it, you can only do what can you do.
TIM JACKSON: Yeah.
Q. I know you're probably not pleased to be getting a semifinal medal again.
TIM JACKSON: Well, it was OK last year, you know, because, yeah, I was playing better. And I just didn't make the putts. I was pretty much in control of the ball except for the first tee shot and the second shot on 2, I just gave Chip the first two holes. But when you lose like this, when you shoot, I don't know, I was probably 3-over par or something like that, that's just really hard to take.  I don't mind shooting 3- or 4-under and losing.  But to shoot 3- or 4-over and lose 1-down, that's, that will eat at me for a good while. But I got to get over it. The State Team's next week and I got to get home and I got to try to work on this, figure this swing out. I don't know what the heck's going on. But I've been hitting the ball great all year and all of a sudden it just went.
Q. Bryan Norton said, "I haven't had a great year, Tim's had a great year," so was it too many adjustments to have to make out there?
TIM JACKSON: Yeah, it was.
Q. Every guy you played, all the way through, great guy, I hope he wins it. It says something about you.
TIM JACKSON: When I play with somebody, I give them the utmost respect and I recognize a good shot. This is supposed to be fun. And it is fun. Despite the way I played, it's fun to still be in it all the way to the very end. Your heart gets pumping and that's fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT