U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2009
Tim Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: 9-under par for the Championship, Tim Jackson. 
 TIM JACKSON: Good afternoon. 

 Q. Describe what happened today. 
 TIM JACKSON: Well, I struggled, today, I really struggled with my tee shot. I was missing those shots to the right early, I tried to make an adjustment late, and I got to missin' 'em left, so I had to grind it out, and that's about all you can say. 
 It wasn't pretty, but I got a decent score in and I'm not out of it. I still got a chance tomorrow so we'll see what happens. 

 Q. Is that your greatest satisfaction, despite struggling, that you are not out of it? 
 TIM JACKSON: Yeah. I knew the first two days I played really solid and putted well, obviously, and today I had some mental struggles out there. I got to hitting it a little crooked; that got in my head, LOST a little confidence middle way in the round, and it's nice to finish the last three holes. Those are three very difficult holes to par, make 3-pars on those holes. 

 Q. Austin was saying last night you didn't talk, you didn't eat --
 TIM JACKSON: I've been a bundle of nerves the last couple of days, and hopefully I'll be a little better tonight. 

 Q. Do you think it's almost better that you're chasing going into the final day as opposed to having a lead? 
 TIM JACKSON: Probably. I can think back on what limited successes I've had, like State-Am stuff, and I've had a lot of success coming from behind so, yeah. 

 Q. Same experience being in championship play at the amateur level? 
 TIM JACKSON: I do, yeah. Getting these balls up and down, whether it's right here or whether it's, you know, in your club championship, it's -- the mental process and the thought processes for me are the same. 

 Q. What kind of mental gymnastics do you do heading into a round like this when you know you're tight? 
 TIM JACKSON: I was struggling today. I was really uptight on the range and trying to get loose, was very tight on the first couple of holes and found a nice rhythm, but for me I think just getting into the round, getting started and playing and walking the golf course, and getting out there and competing. That does it for me. 

 Q. Does Austin try and say anything to loosen you up? 
 TIM JACKSON: He was quiet today.

 Q. You said that you anticipated bumps today. 
 TIM JACKSON: Yep. 

 Q. When you started encountering them, how do you think you handled that mentally? 
 TIM JACKSON: I thought I did pretty well. I don't think I hit a fairway -- I drove it down the middle of 10, and I bogeyed the hole with an 8-iron and then got 200 yards on 11, and I mean 9 and 11 killed me. I was just right there, for easy birdies and I was coming away with pars and those were critical mistakes. 
 I just gutted it out, and I think making the -- after the terrible shot on 15 made a nice recovery, got it on the green and made a nice lag putt. I just kind of felt confident that I could par those last three holes coming in. 

 Q. Do you feel like you're in a good position coming in tomorrow? 
 TIM JACKSON: It's going to be work, I know I'm going to be uptight and, you know, wound up a little bit but it's going to be nice. I think I'm playing with Joey again, and he's a super guy to play with, and that will be nice. 

 Q. Does the feeling you had coming into this round compare with any other --
 TIM JACKSON: No, no. 

 Q. This is a Major, this is different? 
 TIM JACKSON: Yeah, this is different. 

 Q. Are you going to be able to sleep tonight? 
 TIM JACKSON: I haven't been eating too much. I need to weigh; I was heavy when I got here. I know I still am, but I probably lost a little weight. I hope to sleep and eat better tonight. 

 Q. You said it was on 8 you lost some momentum. Is that different than how you were driving them? 
 TIM JACKSON: Well, you know, I was protecting against that right rough because I've been losing these shots to the right, and if you get in that right rough you're having to chip out; you can't go for the green, and that was an overadjustment on my part. 
 I hit it on that line yesterday and it was a straight ball, and it held up in the rough. And today, yeah, I was just protecting against going right. 

 Q. What's a successful day for you tomorrow? 
 TIM JACKSON: Waking up. You know, being blessed with another day, that's -- it's all -- it's all good. You know, whatever happens tomorrow, I mean, I'm going to leave this place with a fantastic memory, the best golf fans I've ever been around, and this is going to be a place I look forward to coming back to, to visit, watch Peyton play football. Okay guys, thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT