U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2009
Tim Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Tim Jackson to the media center. At 10-under par Tim is three-shots off the lead going into the final round. Tim, at one point you scored a 13-under, fell back a little bit but hung on through the end there. Tell us a little about the final conclusion of the round.
 TIM JACKSON: "Hanging on" is a good way to describe that. I started off the first six or seven holes hitting the ball pretty well, and I've been fighting this right shot all week with my driver. And my caddy, who is supposed to catch these things early on, and he tells me on the 16th tee, Dad, you are getting your head in front of the ball. Then I adjusted and started hitting everything left. So, you know, I struggled. 
 But I was proud of the way I hung in there and, you know, scrambled, made some nice saves coming in.
 THE MODERATOR: Was there a particular moment that stands out for you as something you can be particularly proud of? 
 TIM JACKSON: Well, you know, I thought the way I started off. You know, I had the jitters a little bit and I was pretty solid, you know, got a good start. And know that I can make a few birdies on those early holes, that's what you are going to have to do tomorrow, you have to get off to a fast start. Maybe I can do that and sustain my ball striking a little bit better throughout the entire round and maybe make a little bit of noise.

 Q. You said yesterday you expect to be nervous today, talking about that, how much were nerves a factor for you at all?
 TIM JACKSON: Well, my wife can attest, you know, she's had to live with me this week. So I haven't had a lot to say, haven't been eating much at all. I hope tonight's a little bit better. I know I'll be playing with Joey again and that was a very comfortable pair, super guy, that will make it easier. 
 But, you know, it's the fourth round of a Major tournament. The biggest tournament that I've ever contended in. So this will be another experience for me, you know. Every day's been an experience for me on some level. 
 Today I knew that I would have -- you can't come out and play like I did though first two days. Over the course of four rounds, you are going to have a day where you struggle, and hopefully that was today.

 Q. Despite the nerves there were a couple holes in the front where the quality golf was quite good. You both traded birdies on 5 and 7. Can you talk about how good the golf was there at times?
 TIM JACKSON: You know, those early holes were kind of like the first two rounds where I just had perfect yardages and I had, you know, nice looks. Kind of hit a sloppy shot on 3 but made a real nice pitch. Kind of crossed the side of that bunker up there with a 3-footer and saved that par. 
 But hit some good shots. Hit a good shot at 4. 5 I kind of misplayed my second shot. I was trying to leave it back a little further. Hit a nice little shot in there at six and hit a good putt. 
 I mean, the first seven holes I played them pretty solid. I was really pleased with that. Then I just kind of fell apart there in the middle -- well, from there to the house I don't think I hit maybe two fairways the rest of the day. 
 Hit that ball in the water at 8. You know, that's a mistake you can't make. But, overall, I'm happy with where I'm at.

 Q. How long have you been using that driver?
 TIM JACKSON: This is my second year. It's a good club. I'm doing something in my swing. Austin tells me I'm getting ahead of it with my head a little bit. So I may need to go hit 5 or 10 balls. Austin, can we go hit five or ten balls; is that okay? Good. Maybe I can iron that out before tomorrow. But I'm not going to practice too long. I'm pretty tired. 
 THE MODERATOR: Do you have a thought in your mind for what you need to shoot tomorrow to have a chance to win the championship? 
 TIM JACKSON: I think the conditions will dictate that. I think -- is there rain in the forecast, maybe a chance? Hope it doesn't get too soft. I kind of like the way the course is playing. But, you know, if it rains, scoring conditions should be good tomorrow, and I would think that I would probably need to shoot, you know, 4 to 5-under to be close; that's what I would think.

 Q. We talked outside about how nervous you were. Is this the most nervous you've ever been before a golf round or was it worse at the Masters?
 TIM JACKSON: No, I think for the Walker Cup I was probably just as keyed up for that. Obviously, for Augusta. 
 But, you know, it's been awhile though. I mean, it's probably been, I don't know, 7 or 8 years or so since I've really played in a really big event, and so this is fun. I mean, this is a new experience to actually be competitive and be contending in something like this.

 Q. You spoke the other day about having the application to the Senior's Tour and not filling it out; what went into the decision to remain an amateur?
 TIM JACKSON: You know, Karen and I talked about it and just the quality of life, all the travel and being away from -- Austin's going into high school this year and, you know, missing those years basically. And I just weighed it up all and I just think the quality of life that we have is pretty good. And you go to traveling 40 weeks a year, whatever these guys have to do, that just doesn't appeal to me that much. 
 THE MODERATOR: Tim, thank you so much for your time. Best of luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT