U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2009
Tim Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Leading the Championship at 11-under, Tim Jackson. 

 Q. What do you think about all this? 
 TIM JACKSON: Well, it is rare, but I'm enjoying it. It's really neat to draw the energy from the folks here this week that are -- I can feel that they're pullin' for me and that does give you some additional energy. 
 This has been -- these last two days have been the best for me. 

 Q. About halfway through the tournament, does it sink in more as you get closer? 
 TIM JACKSON: Well, I mean, just sinking into the fact that I made the cut, I think I made the cut, so that's one goal accomplished for the week. 
 Tomorrow is going to be a different animal, I'm sure. I'm playing toward the end tee times, and the hardest thing is killing time ahead of that and trying to get your mind off of it and not be too stressed out. I'm going to be nervous, I know that. I just have to keep focused on my routine and literally, I know this is cliche, but just one shot at a time. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TIM JACKSON: John and I go back to the early to mid-90s, amateur golf, on the Walker Cup Team together and haven't seen John in five or six years since he turned pro, and we picked it up immediately, and it was good to be with him this week. 

 Q. Does that help your comfort level? 
 TIM JACKSON: I think it does. 
 First time I met Jeff, our personalities are fairly similar, we're quiet and low key, and it makes for a good combination. 

 Q. Talk about the back nine. 
 TIM JACKSON: What happened on the back nine, it's all a blur. (Chuckles.) I think I got out there today, had a lot of comfortable yardages, and when I hit a shot that wasn't where I was looking, I was able to miss it on the correct side and get away with it. Aside from hitting it by the face of the bunker at 16, that was tempting to try to do a little bit more. But I just said, take your medicine and make the hole -- it was in a good location to try to get it up and down that bowl. Didn't hit a good wedge there, but I was actually proud of myself for just being disciplined there and not trying to reach for too much there. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 TIM JACKSON: I believe that's my only bogey, yeah. 

 Q. A lot of people are talking about swirling winds today; how did you seem to not be affected? 
 TIM JACKSON: I was affected by it. You know, I tend to be hitting the fade this week and these left-to-right winds are having to work hard to fight that left-to-right breeze, and we had several of those today on the tee shots. But, obviously, stand up on the 18th tee, that wasn't my favorite tee shot of the day, but my son and I picked out a little emblem out there on the tent and we -- it was good to have him helping me with those targets, that's for sure. 

 Q. Do you have any thought about turning pro? 
 TIM JACKSON: I've given it some thought, but that's just not for me, really. 
 I don't see how those guys do it week in, week out, traveling. I love amateur golf, I've always been an amateur and I plan to stay that way regardless of what happens this week. 

 Q. How much do you play and what do you do for a living; was it real estate developer? 
 TIM JACKSON: Yeah, I was a C.P.A. by profession and most of the last ten years I've been doing private equity investing, focussing on real estate. 

 Q. How much do you play? 
 TIM JACKSON: This year I'm probably going to play ten or eleven events, which is about three or four more than I planned to play. 

 Q. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT