U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2009
Tim Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Tied for the championship lead, minus 6, Tim Jackson. Great play. Can you just sort of go through your day, your round?  
 TIM JACKSON: Well, I started on ten, scrapped out a few poor shots, the early holes. Had a little case of the butterflies, of course, but made a nice birdie on the, what's that the Par 5, 15th hole, I think, to get me to 1-under and saved a couple of nice pars at 16 and 17. And then it was just kind of off from there.   
 Hitting the fairways on the front. You know, just having good yardages and leaving the ball on the green, just the perfect line. Either just straight up the hill or straight down the hill. Not a lot of side, you know, big breakers.   
 So just got in a good rhythm and it just kind of went my way this afternoon.  
  
  Q. Are you aware it's the lowest round by a an amateur in this tournament?  
 TIM JACKSON: Pete just told me that. That's exciting.  
  
  Q. Did you -- what about the last putt, you were so close to taking over. Were you aware?  
 TIM JACKSON: I knew I was close to the lead, and I was working pretty hard on that putt. I probably just focused a little too much on the lie line and kind of got away from my routine a little bit.   
 But overall I was pretty happy with the way I played that hole. I had yardage where I could go for the green, but it was just in the first cut and just didn't like my lie. So I talked to my son and we just figured, you know, just lay it up out to the right and try to get a good number, and we did, and had a chance anyway to make birdie.  
  
  Q. What's your son's name?  
 TIM JACKSON: Austin.  
  
  Q. How old is he?  
 TIM JACKSON: Austin's 15.  
  
  Q. Wow.  
 TIM JACKSON: He caddied two or three events for me. Northeast Amateur particularly. It's been awhile since I played a USGA event. A couple times a year.  
  
  Q. Did you imagine during practice rounds coming out here and shooting --  
 TIM JACKSON: I struggled a bit with my swing. I just kind of found something on the back. I just told myself just to try to stay balanced on my feet. I just felt like I was getting a little bit too, you know, one way or the other, and I just tried to stay real centered and still and just try to rotate and just really got in a good rhythm with that driver and just started hitting on the fairway.  
 If you drive the ball on the fairway here, you can make some birdies.  
  
  Q. This is quite a memory to have with your son.   
 TIM JACKSON: Oh, yeah. This will be something we'll talk about for a long time, I'm sure.  
  
  Q. Have you been playing a lot?  
 TIM JACKSON: In the last six weeks I've been watching him play. He is starting to play. He's played the Southern Junior this year and the Tennessee State Junior, so we travel some with him.   
 When I qualified for the this, I had entered a couple national amateur tournaments; if I didn't qualify I wasn't going to play. If I did, I would play.   
 This is my third week in a row. I played the Southern and the Porter Cup leading up to this.   
 Good preparation. Even if you're not hitting it good, you kind of get into that mode of playing and, you know, scrambling around and trying to salvage pars, and that's the good thing with playing some tournaments that lead up to it.  
  
  Q. You said you had nerves early. How about as you realized you were topping that leader board?  
 TIM JACKSON: Not really. I felt comfortable. Very calm. I had a great group of guys that I played with. John and I go way back to Walker Cup days. It was just a good afternoon.  
  
  Q. Knowing what you did today, what are you going to be thinking about tomorrow?   
 TIM JACKSON: I am just thinking about the first tee shot. Hybrid off the tee and just go from there. If you get off a little bit and start hitting in the rough you are going to make bogeys. I mean, you can have some wide differences in your scores from just how you drive the ball and put it into play.   
 So I'm going to try to have a nice dinner and talk about -- have a nice talk about the day's -- you know, go home and think about the first tee shot and try to get it on the fairway. That's about it.  
  
  Q. Knowing John, have you played a lot of golf with him? Did that help as far as comfort level?  
 TIM JACKSON: We played a lot of amateur golf. John's been a pro -- I probably haven't seen John in five or six years, but we played a couple of practices rounds. It was nice. It was a nice pairing.  
  
  Q. How about practice rounds? You get in here --  
 TIM JACKSON: Got here Sunday afternoon. I played Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. So we got some good work in.  
  
  Q. Is length an issue at all?  
 TIM JACKSON: You know, if you drive as firm as it is, if you drive on the fairway you are going to get a lot of finish on the ball. I'm just trying to think, my longest club on the front, on approach shot was an 8-iron, I think.   
 So, you know, the conditions can change, obviously, but this afternoon the way the golf course was playing I thought it played fairly short.  
  
  Q. Question about Austin's --  
 TIM JACKSON: Austin is about a three and moving up to the high school team. He is pretty excited. He'll be working next week to get ready for tryouts when he gets home.  
  
  Q. Who gets to pick the dinner spot, you or Austin?  
 TIM JACKSON: My wife's already chosen. She rules the roost; everybody knows that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT