U.S. SENIOR AMATEUR
September 30, 2015
Tim Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I heard you telling Tom that you couldn't make anything.  I saw you on No. 10 and as you were lining up that putt, it almost looked if somebody could will a putt into a hole, it looked like that's what you were trying to do.  
TIM JACKSON: I started that on the back nine.  I played so sloppy on the front, and I just told myself, I've just got to go -- I hit some good golf shots on the back side.  I think I hit most of the fairways and most of the greens and hit some good putts, they just didn't go in.  What can I say?  It's just very disappointing.  You work so hard, and when you think you're the best player and it's just --   
 Q.  So it's obvious that you can't get down quickly against a player in this situation --  
TIM JACKSON: He plays a lot like I do.  You know, we're solid.  We make a lot of pars and we make the opponent beat themselves, and that's basically what I did.  I mean, I gave him two holes right out of the gate, and he gave me one back here at 16.  You know, I know I've got to hit that wedge shot past the hole back there, but it was so wet out there in the fairway, I was really -- I was just trying to make a good strike on it, and I just didn't accelerate enough and sucked it back off the front and going up the grain -- these putts uphill against the grain, you've got no chance.  You can't hit them hard enough.   
 Q.  You needed to stick it close there really?  What were you, about 75 yards out?  
TIM JACKSON: I was 80 yards.  Yeah, I laid up to the perfect number, just what I wanted.  I didn't want to hit my 60 there because I knew I would really spin that one a lot, and I was kind of trying to dead it in there.  It is what it is.  I mean, I probably -- you know, I probably got to pressing on the front side, on the greens.  I got to pressing a little bit, and I just finally get the turn, I hit a really terrible third shot at 9 and a terrible putt, and I just made a terrible -- I thought, okay, we've got to get nine more holes, and maybe he gives me a couple.  If he gives me a couple holes, I've got a chance to win the match.   
It was fun.  You know, it's competitive.  You're in there and the juices are flowing, but you just really hate this feeling of coming up short.  It sucks.   
 Q.  I know when we walked yesterday, you said, I'm giving this two or three good solid years more.  I know you're going to give it a strong push next year --  
TIM JACKSON: My plan is to really commit in the off-season, just do a lot of work and try to get in a little better shape, lose a little weight.  Haven't really thought about a schedule, but put a schedule together and stay with it.  This year I just let so many things go.  I'd set a schedule and something would come up.  I bet I withdrew from five or six golf tournaments this year, missed our state Mid-Am because of this tournament and I pulled out of the U.S. Mid-Am because it was just too much golf.   
 Q.  Too much all at once?  
TIM JACKSON: Too much.   
 Q.  Again, a really great run.  I know you're disappointed ultimately, but you have to be happy with the week in general, right?  
TIM JACKSON: Well, you know, I was playing good coming in here.  Look, I feel like that if I play up to my capability, I'm a handful at this level.  You know, I just didn't play well.  As good as I played in my first four matches, I just didn't have it this -- you know, it just looked a little different standing over it.  You know how it is.   
 Q.  Sure, every day is a little different.  
TIM JACKSON: Every day is a little different, and the rain break probably helped me a little bit.  That kind of got me centered again.   
 Q.  Well, you made a really good run and you made an amazing shot there on 18.  
TIM JACKSON: Oh, God.   
 Q.  What was that club?  
TIM JACKSON: I hit a little punch 6-iron.  I had like 172, just had to keep it low.  It was kind of in between clubs.  Came off perfect.  I mean, that was probably the best shot I hit all day, really.   
 Q.  It probably was about 10 feet?  
TIM JACKSON: Yeah.   
 Q.  And just stayed up --  
TIM JACKSON: I just didn't play it high enough.  I just didn't give it enough break.  That's been my deal all day.  I'd read one and I'd play a little bit too much.  And then I'd try to, okay -- I'd plumb it, I'm going to go with my plumb-bob here, and it would be a little bit too -- just a fraction off.  At this level, everybody is good.  When you get to the quarterfinals, all of these players are really good players, and you can't fall asleep.  I fell asleep on that front side, and that cost me the match.   
 Q.  Just too much to overcome?  
TIM JACKSON: Yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT