U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2011
Tim Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. The low amateur guarantee for the third straight Senior Open which ties Vinny Giles record, what's that mean to you?   
 TIM JACKSON: I'm very honored. Vinny's obviously one of the al- time greats in all of golf. I have a lot of respect for Vinny and he's really accomplished, and I'm honored to have my name beside his. That's awesome.  
  
  Q. Is it nice to know you're not going to have to qualify? You keep getting those low Ams?   
 TIM JACKSON: That's always nice when you can set your schedule in January. That helps plan for the year and prioritize your schedule.  
  
  Q. When you come to a tournament like this what are your aspirations? I mean, everybody wants to go out and win, but is the low amateur thing really a big thing on your mind and making the cut?   
 TIM JACKSON: No, I literally prepare for this tournament like I do any other amateur tournament. I haven't played these golf courses, so I don't have a point of reference. But my preparation and my expectations are just like they are if I was going to play in the Southern Amateur or the Tennessee State Amateur. That's just the only way I know.  
  
  Q. Doing the best you can.   
 TIM JACKSON: I know when I start having expectations and all of a sudden my game goes in the toilet. So I'm better off if I think about the first tee shot and the target and then start from right there, that works best for me.  
 You know, when I first played in this event two years ago I really didn't know what to expect. When I got here, I saw that my game matched up pretty good with most of the guys as far as my overall game and particularly my short game and my putting, so that gave me some added confidence to compete.   
 You know, when I come here, I don't think I expect but I'm not surprised to play well, if that answers your question. I think age has a great levelling effect. I really do. I think you see it in junior golf. Then when you filter and go all the way through your mid life and hit senior age, I think that age factor is a huge difference.   
  
  Q. What do you consider your biggest win ever?   
 TIM JACKSON: Probably my second Mid Am you know. To do it the second time I think kind of validates when I did it the first time. I was on a real hot streak the first time I won. I won like four tournaments in a row coming into the Mid Am. And then Tiger beat me on the U.S. Am. So I was on a good hot streak.   
 But the second time I won, I had been in a slump and changed equipment and to put it together for that week was really gratifying. I think my second Mid Am was my most gratifying victory.  
  
  Q. What year was that?   
 TIM JACKSON: It was 2001.  
  
  Q. Then the first Mid Amateur?   
 TIM JACKSON: '94 at Hazeltine and 2001 at San Joaquin.  
  
  Q. Did you look at Tiger back then and say, wow, this is someone special?   
 TIM JACKSON: Oh, yeah. There was no question that the sound of his strike was different than all of ours. There's no question.  
  
  Q. And your line of work?   
 TIM JACKSON: I'm a CPA by profession, but I'm a developer. I've been a developer for about 12 years, mostly real estate projects.   
 You asked me my greatest victory, I'll tell you my biggest thrill in golf and that is playing on the Walker Cup. That was my best experience I've ever had, and I played two Masters which is a great deal. But for me the experience of two Walker Cup teams was by far my highlight of my career.  
  
  Q. What years were those?   
 TIM JACKSON: '95 and '99.  
  
  Q. You played in the North-South Quarter Cup, I presume and the Mid Amateur. The Mid Am is the one you liked the most?   
 TIM JACKSON: I won the North South. That was a good victory. I never won the Quarter or the Northeast, but I came close a few times.   
 You know, winning is why we play to get excited there. I think winning a tournament in Match Play is more difficult because you've got six opponents, there are a lot of holes and there is a lot of ebb and flow. Your game goes in cycles. You're not going to play awesome all six rounds. You're going to have that one or two days or one or two matches where you can be beat and you've got to have a little luck.  
  
  Q. So you dig down and figure that out?   
 TIM JACKSON: Yeah, you dig down, that's right.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT