U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2010
Tim Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You finished, even par. How do you feel about that round? 
 TIM JACKSON: Good. I was happy with it, particularly the way I hit it solid on the first four holes. I found myself 2-over par, and I thought, "Here we go." It was kind of -- nice save there, and hit it behind the tree and pitched it out. 
 I think that gave me some confidence and I was in control and able to score. The fact is I played real solid. You know, I don't know if I hit a bad shot on the back nine. 

 Q. You had a high amateur finish last year. Feeling good about that? 
 TIM JACKSON: Yeah, absolutely, playing with these guys and making the cut and coming out on top of the amateurs is nice for next year and sets up two or three other events. 

 Q. You plan to play in those other events, U.S. Amateur? 
 TIM JACKSON: I'm not sure about the Amateur; I have to see how my work schedule is. The amateur is? 

 Q. August 28th and 29th. 
 TIM JACKSON: I may play then, because I'll have two weeks home. I may have to come back. 

 Q. Have you ever played Chambers Bay? 
 TIM JACKSON: Never have, no. 

 Q. How do you think the course played today compared to the past three days? 
 TIM JACKSON: I think they set it up today where you could get to some hole locations that were harder to get to. The holes on the backside, you can get to all of 'em. I think they're trying to set it up for some good drama on the back nine where the guys can pretty much go to the holes. 

 Q. Overall how was your experience this year compared to last year? 
 TIM JACKSON: I didn't play as well this year, didn't strike the ball as well tee to green, hit the ball poorly the second day, just kind of took myself out of it. 
 If you look at my other three rounds I was 2-under -- 2-over for three rounds; that's pretty good. If we were sitting there starting today I would be in some of the last groups with a chance to move up. I'm pleased with it; it was a good week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT