U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2010
Tim Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: 2-under par for the Championship. We have amateur Tim Jackson. Just general thoughts on your round today.  
 TIM JACKSON: Hit the tree off the tee on the 12th hole and I hit it in the first cut. Kind of blocked out on 16, but other than that I was pretty happy with how I drove it.  
  
  Q. What did you think about the crowds today?  
 TIM JACKSON: With the 8:25 starting time, people started coming around.   
  
  Q. You were top of the leaderboard pretty much all of last year. Did that experience help you out there today or what are your expectations for the rest of the way?  
 TIM JACKSON: Well, I talked to Austin about this. We have to do what we did last year, play one side at a time here, because the trees are hanging out and the hole locations are right over the mounds and you've got to be pretty precise. You've got to be patient. You're making pars and pretty good numbers out here.   
  
  Q. Well played. I assume you would have taken 68 standing on the first tee this morning?  
 TIM JACKSON: Absolutely. We talked about that during the practice rounds. Actually tried to somewhat shoot the score yesterday. We were 2- to 3-over par on the practice round. Even par around here is going to be a good score. We'll see how it holds up. I don't know how the hole locations could get more difficult than they were today. But, yeah, I would take it every day.   
  
  Q. Looking at different times of the year, how do you play and practice?  
 TIM JACKSON: I got beat in the Mid-am on October the 8th last year. And did not play a round of golf until February the 20th this year, so I took about four months off. I played a couple in May, a couple in June, April, couple in July. But obviously whatever happens this tournament, and how this affects my situation with the U.S. Amateur and other events. But typically 10 or 12 vents in the year between March and September.   
  
  Q. How much do you practice?  
 TIM JACKSON: I probably hit balls a couple of days a week during the season. I try to play, when I'm home, I try to play one or two rounds and practice a couple of days.   
  
  Q. That really doesn't sound like a lot. Are there people who say to you, hey, why don't you play more?  
 TIM JACKSON: I just -- I don't play that much. I play with Austin. He and I -- he's about the only golf partner I have. It's just when you're home, I don't know, I just go out and play golf. I've never really played that much. But for me, what works better, is playing golf. Playing golf for me is better than hitting a lot of balls. I played the Southern Amateur, and I played the Palmetto the last two weeks before this, just playing my way up, and particularly scrambling, getting the ball up and down and competing and making some nice saves. So I think that is the biggest thing that I get from playing a couple of weeks leading up to this event.   
 MODERATOR: Thanks a lot, Tim.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT