U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2009
Tim Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   TIM JACKSON: I'm glad this is a four-round tournament not five. Scores just keep going up and up and up. What a great week, a lot of fun. And good memories for Austin and I for sure.   
  
  Q. What about today?  
 TIM JACKSON: I felt really good today. That's what worried me. I said, I'm not nervous much at all. I'm ready to go. And, you know, I just knew I was pressing that club. I just kinds of -- if I could have stuck that shot in there and gotten some momentum going, some confidence, then I just kind of got to guiding the ball around on some of those holes on the back, and it was hard today. The wind was blowing and the hole locations were just brutal on every hole.   
 But overall I'm pleased with the way I battled and hung in there and gutted it out.   
 You know to shoot it under par, I don't know where I finished, but, you know, being under par on this course in these conditions, I feel pretty good about that.  
  
  Q. Does this for even a second make you maybe rethink your position not to turn pro and reconsider it at all?  
 TIM JACKSON: I am not turning pro. I know that for a fact. I mean, I admire these guys, what they do, but there's no way I would jump into that swimming pool with those guys and travel week after week and try to get my brains beat out.  
  
  Q. What's your next golf after this?  
 TIM JACKSON: I'm leaving in the morning, flying home. We have the Tennessee State Am next week. First round is on Tuesday.  
  
  Q. This coming Tuesday?  
 TIM JACKSON: Yeah. I'll drive over there tomorrow, tomorrow afternoon, have a Champion's dinner at 7:00 then I start on Tuesday.  
  
  Q. Across the state?  
 TIM JACKSON: About five hours.  
  
  Q. Where is that?  
 TIM JACKSON: The Honors. It's the best in Tennessee.  
  
  Q. Well, you have an exemption for next year.   
 TIM JACKSON: Well, that is a beautiful spot. I played their Player's Championship out there 6 or 7 years ago, and it's a super spot and it will be a lot of fun. I need to work on my straight ball. Didn't hit it very straight these last two days.  
  
  Q. So you are wearing the shirt you bought here. Did you run out of shirts?  
 TIM JACKSON: Ran out of white shirts.  
  
  Q. You like white?  
 TIM JACKSON: I just got to wearing, you know, khaki and white and I just stuck with it all week.  
  
  Q. Are you normally superstitious?  
 TIM JACKSON: I am when I get it going good. I'm not when, you know, just every day wake up. Although I do have a set number of coins and set number of tools, you know, so -- but that's more idiosyncrasy I think than anything.  
  
  Q. What about Funk finishing 19-under par, whatever he did?  
 TIM JACKSON: That's phenomenal. And Loren Roberts shooting 64 today, I mean, that's great stuff.  
  
  
  
  Q. How many times have you won the Tennessee State Am?  
 TIM JACKSON: Won the State Amateur four times, Mid-Am five times. The State Open once, and the match play once.   
 Guys, it's been a great week.   
  
  Q. Congratulations.   
 TIM JACKSON: Thanks so much. Appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT