U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2009
Tim Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Tim Jackson to the interview area. At 6-under par, Tim finished as the low amateur for the 2009 U.S. Senior Open Championship. Tim is a life-long amateur. You achieved something with the likes of Bill Campbell and others. What does that mean to you?   
 TIM JACKSON: I have the utmost respect for Bill Campbell; he is Mr. Amateur golf; and to achieve something he did feels really good.   
 This was a wonderful experience, a great week, and even being as old as I am, I think I learned a lot this week, so I know what I need to go work on -- left to right wind shots; I got to hit that hook up against that wind.   
  
  Q. Tim, throughout the play today, at what point were you more nervous or anything like that? I guess, a two-part. A hug with Austin there at the end, no doubt a special moment at the end of this?   
 TIM JACKSON: Yeah, yeah. I was actually really calm last night. I had a nice meal and slept all night long and actually got up early, about 8:00, came out here with my teacher, I said, "For 30 minutes I want you to help me with alignment," and we did that and went back. I was ready to go. I was in the same mindset that I am when I'm playing State Amateurs or things like that.   
 I think it just got to me. I think I probably got to pressing too hard.   
 I tried to force a couple of shots, you know, short-sided myself, and missed a couple of short putts, never got anything going at all in the round and it was just kind of a hanging on, surviving-type day, but it was still fun.   
  
  Q. Tim, what's the name of your teacher?   
 TIM JACKSON: Mark Grace.   
 THE MODERATOR: Tim, any thoughts on the possibility of making the team for the upcoming Walker Cup?   
 TIM JACKSON: To be honest, no, no thoughts on that. I hadn't been focused on that in the last few years, but I felt like if I could do something special today that maybe I could be in the consideration, but I don't think I've done enough in the last couple of years, but that would be nice.   
 For them to consider me or to be an alternate, that would be nice, to be an alternate, be part of the room and contribute something in some way to those guys from the experiences we had in the past.   
  
  Q. Talk about playing with the crowd reaction, especially when you made that crazy long putt on 11. Talk about that.   
 TIM JACKSON: Well, I was really -- I was leaking some -- I had a chance there on the front to really do something and I missed some putts and I bogeyed 9 from nowhere, I three-putted that thing from the back of the green. That sucks a lot of energy out of you. Almost holed the putt at 10 and butchered 11, had the worst lie, hacked a wedge out, debated between clubs, went with the bigger one, buried the lie, blasted it over the green.   
 I told Austin all I can do here is keep from -- I just worked on the speed, and it was some kinda putt. I think the folks went nuts, and that was one of the loudest roars I think I heard all week, but it was pretty neat.   
 THE MODERATOR: Tim, congratulations. Thank you for your time.   
 TIM JACKSON: Thank you, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT