BUICK CLASSIC
June 7, 2000
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I like playing here and that's why I'm back. I've always enjoyed the golf
course. The people have always been great to me. I think they put on great tournaments,
and I think it works out well heading to the U.S. Open.  
 
Q. Is it a good course to prepare for the Open? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I think so, because what happens is you've got fairly narrow fairways
here, with high rough, and to succeed here, as in the U.S. Open, you obviously need to
play in the fairway, and, you know, maybe a week of seeing that type of fairways; and
knowing that it's high rough, very penal if you miss, might get you a little freer, if you
understand that. You get kind of comfortable seeing it, to kind of free it up a little
bit. 
 
Q. A lot of guys were just talking about preparing for the Open next week and not
really knowing how differently it's going to play back from in February --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: It will be completely different. We all know that. 
 
Q. Well, how it different. What exactly do you expect? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know what to expect, either. I expect it to be hard and fast, you
know, and dry. Anything else would be a surprise, really. I think we all have been around
the U.S. Open enough. I don't see why everybody keeps asking each year, "What it's
going to be like?" We all know what it's going to be like. Let's talk about something
else. The U.S. Open tries for high rough and fast greens and fairways that are very hard.
I've yet to play in one that didn't have that. 
 
Q. After a slow start last year, you've played pretty well down the stretch here. Can
you talk about that? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: At this event?  
 
Q. Didn't you come on pretty strong at the end last year? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: You know, I don't exactly recall. I think I had a good day on the last day
to finish up in the Top-10 somewhere, maybe, but I don't recall exactly what happened the
first couple rounds. You know, I don't know why that happened. Obviously, I would have
liked to have started out better. But, you know any time you perform well enough to get
somewhere around that Top-10, I think what it signals is you're pretty close to playing
very well, and I think I've been hovering around that spot here for a couple years now,
somewhere around 6th to 12th, it seems. I played the course pretty well. I just need to
get a few better things going my way. 
 
Q. What's the course like today and what was the rough like especially?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: The rough was pretty bad. I hit in it on a couple holes, and it's pretty
high. It might be -- it's very high, actually. The course isn't too wet. There's some
spots obviously that are extremely wet. The greens were a lot dryer than I expected. So I
think everything will be fine come tomorrow. 
 
Q. Do you usually play the week before an Open, the week before a major or does it
depend on the venue? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Sometimes. I'm playing before most of them, I don't know. I played before
Augusta this year. I don't recall if I played before the U.S. Open last year or not. 
 
Q. Does it have to be a venue like this that's going to --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Not necessarily. I think it just depends on maybe how you feel like you
should head into the event that year. 
 
Q. You and Phil Mickelson and Colin Montgomerie are some of the best players to have
not won a major --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: That's old news. Heard that a year and a half ago. 
 
Q. So how do you feel going into the U.S. Open?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I feel great. I'm looking forward to it very much. I think I have an
excellent chance. 
 
Q. David, do you think we're coming to a point where some of the marquis players will
determine their schedule based on size of the crowd, behavior of the crowd? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I had not thought about that. I couldn't answer it. I'd have to think
about it. I don't foresee that becoming the case. Why do you ask that?  
 
Q. Well, some places, like Phoenix, obviously have, huge galleries.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, but Phoenix is pretty notorious -- I was going to say, name a couple
more, just for me. What, Hartford? I don't think that's anything like Phoenix has been. Is
there others that come to mind? 
 
Q. But crowds are taking more license now than ever before. I know Greg Norman a couple
years ago had a shouting match in Hartford with a fan.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, that's unfortunate. I don't foresee that being the case, because
it's not -- you know, the illustration that you're kind of drawing is not, I don't think,
prevalent on TOUR. There's a couple of events where people are very into the party and the
social scene of the golf tournament. You know, that's -- that's not a bad thing,
necessarily. But that could be -- yeah, certainly could hurt their fields in the future,
but I don't think that's something that's going to -- that doesn't happen here. It doesn't
happen at PLAYERS or Augusta. It doesn't happen at -- I don't know how many tournaments we
play, but the 46 or the 48 tournaments -- and I don't have recall Hartford being
particularly bad. I think they enjoy when you hit at the green at 15 and go at you if you
don't a little bit. It's just that whole little setup through the horseshoe there; and 18,
everybody is having a great time up on the hill. But as I've said, if you're really paying
attention to what you're doing and into -- your concentration is where it should be, you
don't hear that stuff. 
 
Q. Jumping back to the Open a little bit, is there something special about Pebble for
you? Everybody always talks about the allure of Pebble; what's your experience there and
is it a special venue for you?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I like playing there like most everybody does. I don't think you encounter
too many people that don't like it there. It's a spectacular setting. You know, obviously
there's a lot of history involved and I feel like I've performed well on that golf course
in the past. At one point I -- I don't know if I still do, but at one point I had part of
the course record. Like I said, I'm looking forward to it very, very much. 
 
Q. What was that?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I shot 62 there a couple years ago. I dare say that it hasn't been broken,
but I don't know. It may have been. I think Tom Kite shot 62 there also.  
 
Q. Was that at AT&T? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Mm-hmm. 
 
Q. Can you talk about your year? I guess you've had a number of Top-10s and a couple
3rds -- maybe three 3rds, is it a matter of just getting that one consistent week?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I believe my failings this year have been just that I haven't made
as many putts as I have in the past few years. I kind of think that's behind me, if you
will. You know, beyond that, of all the other aspects of my game have been pretty good
this year, really. Very good. So with that said, obviously, I just want to make some more
putts. I think I need to get better control of the speed, my speed, and I think that will
all happen.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Just not going in. It doesn't matter why.  
 
Q. Is it mechanical, something in the stroke? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, it's not a mechanical problem. It's a speed issue, I think. I think
I'm paying a little bit more attention to that now. 
 
Q. How prevalent will Payne Stewart's memory be next week at Pebble Beach?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I would imagine very, but I can't speculate to what degree because I'm not
there yet.  
 
Q. Can you talk about how you set up your schedule for the year and how maybe the way
the majors, like the U.S. Open and the British are set up, you know, distance-wise, how it
might help or hurt some of the tournaments in between? Like coming this week before you
have to head out to the West Coast; does that help, hurt or who knows? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I'm not playing here this week because it will hurt my chances next
week. I think it will help me. And a guy who has chosen not to come here thinks he's
better off not playing the week before; so, it's a very personal thing. I don't know what
it does to the tournaments in between the majors, all that. But, you know, I think every
week, unfortunately, you're not going to have all the players you want playing. You're not
going to have every big name playing. But I think the way the TOUR has gone and the
caliber of the competition, you need to embrace the fields that you get. They are usually
pretty excellent. But I just feel for me that -- this year I played before Augusta, I
think because it can be very easy to get to Augusta early and play a lot of practice days
and such, and really just kind of tire yourself out. And I think the same thing can happen
at Pebble Beach this year. Besides, I've played at Pebble a lot of times. I know the golf
course. I know what it's going to be like. And then I don't know if I'm going to be
playing the week before the British Open or not. If I do, it will be -- it won't be here;
it will be across the ocean. And the week before the PGA, I'm not sure yet either. I may
very well be playing. To be honest, I haven't looked at the schedule to see where it goes
beyond next week. 
 
Q. At Augusta I remember you talking very much about how you've just kind of honed your
schedule and your game leading up to that first major. Since then, it's been a little bit
of a gap since the last major, obviously have you done similar things to get ready as the
Open comes up? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, in a sense. I have tried to make sure that my -- obviously, my golf
is very good, and peaking. I try to make sure that -- I feel like my health and strength
and endurance is, you know, kind of starting to peak there. You know, basically just the
same type of approach. I haven't played as much headed to the U.S. Open. Unfortunately,
both of the weeks I was planning on playing I was sick; so, I had to go home. I think that
the way I set up my schedule this year so far has been very good and gave me a very good
chance to win at Augusta, and I think the same thing will occur next week. But, you know,
I really am looking forward to some great things happening this week, too. You can talk a
lot about next week, but I think I can win this golf tournament this week. I think I'm
ready to start doing those things again. I think my game is there again. So, I'm really
looking forward to playing tomorrow. 
 
Q. As a follow-up to that and having to do with what you just said, if I'm not
mistaken, at Augusta you made some mention that maybe your focus towards the Masters might
have taken away from the way you played in some of the earlier events in the year. What
did you learn out of that and how has that changed as you've come toward this tournament? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I wouldn't trade what I did at the beginning of the year. I wouldn't
want to do it over, because I think I did the right thing. However, it's kind of -- you
talk about players figuring their schedules, what they think is most beneficial to them,
playing the great weeks during the majors and such, it's the same thing where I feel like
I'm figuring that stuff out, but you -- I should say I, personally, need to get better. If
I'm going to do those type of things, get better at -- don't take it the wrong way,
please. I wasn't in there not playing well, not even wanting to be there, those type of
things, but maybe the intensity wasn't -- I don't even know how to explain the problem. I
probably wasn't quite as focused as I needed to be is the best way to put it. You know, I
think that I played some very good golf, actually, though, at some of those events.
Unfortunately for me, I didn't win any of them. But, that's part of -- part of our duties
I think out here in playing. That's kind of the responsibility I have. If I'm going to
come up to Westchester and play, I need to be ready to play well here. The people here are
going to come out and watch us play golf. They are not here to watch me prepare for next
week; they are here to watch me play great golf this week. That's what I'm focusing on
better now. 
 
Q. Obviously, it's very tough to win anywhere on TOUR and I think maybe some people
don't realize that. Do you look at last year, you have a flurry of wins and people
probably want to know, well, where has that gone; do you let that get inside your head at
all? Obviously, you're analytical about why it might not be happening, you talked about
your putting a little bit --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Not really. Because I do know how difficult it can be to win out here. You
know, I would probably be sitting here and trying to help y'all have me figure things out
I, you know, had not had the year I've had. It's not like I've, you know, failed by any
stretch this year. I haven't won, certainly. I think we all know that. But, you know, I
think I finished -- I played 12 events including a preseason event, the Williams, and I
finished in the Top-5 six out of 12 times. You know, that's okay. So that means -- what
that means is I'm getting right there often, but I just haven't been able to finish it off
yet. I feel like a couple of the events that -- had I played a couple more putts I think I
could have won. But that's all behind me now and I'm focussing on playing great again this
week.  
 
Q. Can we talk about your strength, the regimen you're in, is that all good or was
there a trade-off in the early beginning of it that you had to adjust a little bit to,
maybe differences in your swing or anything? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: You know, I don't know. I don't think so. I believe everybody's swings,
they evolve and change a little bit and they tweak on you and do this and that. I felt
like in the long run what I was doing was beneficial. I think if you look statistically at
whatever categories are, those stats we have, the ball-striking type stats, they reflect
that I've played well. But I haven't particularly scored well, as well as I would expect
to do, and I think that it comes down to making putts. As much as you people want to say,
you know, like this week you have to -- it's a ball-striker's golf course or next week, I
mean, every week somebody wins a golf tournament; they have hit the ball pretty well. But
you don't ever win a golf tournament if you don't play great. There's no two ways about
it. You have to make a lot of putts to win. I haven't done that yet this year.  
 
Q. When you're talking about trying to peak for next week, how mentally draining is
that? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, you put a lot of effort into it obviously. It's not just -- I mean,
certainly a lot of it is during the actual week of the event, and you expect a lot -- I'm
expecting a lot again of myself next week. I'm ready to do some great things for next
week, and I think that, you know, when it's over, I'll certainly be spent a little bit
from it and need to take a step back for a week or two and then go from there.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT