THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2000
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







DAVID DUVAL: I will just keep playing and just keep trying to get some good things out
of it. I played very well today; had a lot of nice chances to make a good score. I mean, I
didn't have a bad score still. But two birdies and 16 pars and a lot of putts I felt like
I missed.

Q. Can you talk about 18? So much is made of 17. (inaudible) --

DAVID DUVAL: I think 18 is far more difficult than 17. For me, wind like this, it is
not too bad. But I don't know, it is kind -- the problem you run into is that the dogleg
is at that -- it is at that perfect distance where you got to work it around the water a
little bit. You can't just hit it straight; at least, for me, with my length. So, last
couple of days I had to hit driver, and I never play with drivers on that hole. I always
hit 3-woods. Got to play with a 3-wood today, hit right out there on the right side of the
fairway. Then hitting it into the green -- some of these pins are -- that back pin like
they will have tomorrow is very, very -- you have to get close to. Today, virtually
impossible to hit it close. Then you are facing 30-footers on fast greens and you never
know.

Q. What is the most nerve-wracking shot on that hole?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, you know, I don't think it stops unless if you hit a good tee shot
then -- and if you got a club in your hand that you can play with, 6- or 7-iron you might
not be as nervous, but if you hit it back there and you got 4-iron in there, that one is
not exactly fun either because there is nowhere to miss. You can't miss right and you
can't miss left. So you are going to make a bogey either way. So it is hard.

Q. (inaudible)

DAVID DUVAL: I think the golf course is there. It's playing pretty easy.

Q. Relatively?

DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, I mean, considering where you are; what the tournament is and how
hard the greens are and how deep the rough is, it is playing very easy. It is there. I
think you are seeing some good scores and some, I think, from the people who are playing
well, also seeing some bad scores from people who are just off. That is about where you
want a golf course to play.

Q. (inaudible)

DAVID DUVAL: Might not use one tomorrow. Use a long one like my dad.

Q. You got like a stash in the house?

DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, I am just like everybody, got a room full of putters and none of
them work. I don't know, I will try to remember to bring one tomorrow, just -- I don't
know what. Go to the pro shop, support the Tour. Like Carlos, right?

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT