DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 1, 2000
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL: I sure hope so. I feel good. I am putting well, and just nice to be back
here. Last event I played that Ryder was involved in, we had a good result. About the same
thing -- (laughs).

Q. For some.

DAVID DUVAL: (laughs). So, no, it is nice to be back and the ball is rolling a little
bit on the fairways; greens are a little smoother. What a great day. I watched the sunrise
this morning as we were on the first green. 

Q. Using the same putter this week that you tried last week?

DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. I might. I used a different one today.

Q. Either way, you feel like you are getting better results?

DAVID DUVAL: I do, yes. I am getting much better results right now. Last week -- I feel
actually the week before, I feel like I kind of turned it around, started to putt well was
in L.A. Although I didn't make a whole lot last week, I started to make some putts as
well, so.....

Q. Anything in particular that you put your finger on as to what was going on before?

DAVID DUVAL: No. Ball just started going in for a change, just how it is. Sometimes
they lip out; sometimes they don't. So nothing, no big changes.

Q. You recently made a caddie change. I don't know if you want to go into specifics of
why - just why people change caddies?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I think it can be very beneficial. Relationships, they just get
stale and, you know, time to move on and beyond that, I really don't want to say a whole
lot about it.

Q. Talking about this course going through a metamorphosis, from what people thought to
easy to hard, back to a little bit - if I can use the word "soft," THE PLAYERS
Championship course when Greg shoots 24-under, then it got a little bit tougher to the
point where last year it played the toughest it did in history, do you think the courses
should be changed this much or people should settle on one way, one characteristic they
want of a golf course --

DAVID DUVAL: I think what you are assuming is that, you know -- the key factor you are
leaving out is the weather. Greens were soft, course was good, at the TPC, no wonder
Norman shot 24-under. Wind came through, the course played a lot harder. Same thing that
happened here, seemed to me, the course -- they got three years in a row where they didn't
have any wind here and everybody was concerned about what happened to the Doral, you know,
and well the wind didn't blow. No big deal. That is just how it is. So I don't think you
should get real concerned when you have golf courses that are -- one of the key elements
to play is the wind; then as far as the other setup that the Tour staff does, I am here to
play what they set up, so.....

Q. You get a sense that people think victories can be cheapened if the winning score is
24-under and that a more valued win is one that is 4-under?

DAVID DUVAL: Gets difficult to keep making birdies.

Q. Is it more hard to get yourself in a birdie shootout where if you don't make birdie,
you are losing ground knowing you have to make birdie as opposed to trying to protect par?

DAVID DUVAL: I don't think there is a whole lot of difference in the difficulty because
you are making a lot of birdies like -- you are having to hit shots at the flags and more
than likely the ball is stopping because it is softer, but when it is more pars, you are
hitting to the middle of greens; you are not playing toward flags; just 2-putting and
such, so both of them present their own challenge and I don't think one is any different
than the other.

Q. How close is your game to where it was a year ago when you won PLAYERS?

DAVID DUVAL: About this much - really close, I think. Really is. I feel like this West
Coast I have played, you know, I played pretty well and didn't get anything out on the
greens and then the last week I started to hole a few putts and I think it hasn't been far
off all year; just a little bit and I think I am about ready.

Q. Because you reshaped your physique in the off-season, did you have to make any swing
adjustments?

DAVID DUVAL: No.

Q. Any negatives to doing what you did?

DAVID DUVAL: Finding the time to continue, that is all.

Q. It was made a big deal down here when you entered the tournament kind of at the last
second, people were saying that is going to help the event. Do you consider yourself a
drawing card on the Tour?

DAVID DUVAL: I don't think of myself in those terms. Whether I am or not, I don't think
about that.

Q. Did it take a big recruiting job to get you here, David?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, it certainly was helpful, yeah, I mean, as far as showing the
interest in wanting me to come down and then also me just feeling like everything was
really coming together for me and in L.A. and into last week and me just deciding I think
I should play.

Q. Did the course changes have anything to do with you coming back?

DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, that certainly -- hearing about that, it was kind of restored back
to where not -- I don't think it is completely like it originally was set up, but that is
certainly was intriguing to me. Then to see it, the news I got after I committed and then
to see it today, I mean, it reinforces that I made the proper decision and I think you
will have a wonderful week here. Turned out having a great field. It materialized late,
but turned into a heck of a field.

Q. What do you think about the changes and how does it affect how the course plays?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I can't exactly tell you who it affects -- how it plays because I
played early and the winds weren't up at all and stuff, but the big thing is that you hit
off the holes and you can see fairways now. (laughs) You can see where to hit the ball.
Doesn't look like you are just hitting at white stuff everywhere. So that is the big thing
for me. Is kind of more in front of you, laid out that way, kind of directs you well. 

Q. Last week Darren Clarke, he beat the world No. 1 and No. 2. How do you equate that
performance -- his performance at the Match Play?

DAVID DUVAL: I think obviously -- I mean, he played very well. My match against him I
don't remember exactly, but he was probably 7-under par. I guess Tiger's match he was 11-
or 12-under par and he played excellent. So that is what you need to do.

Q. That is Match Play; isn't it, you can just -- he struggled in L.A. the week before?

DAVID DUVAL: Yeah. I don't know how he did in the first couple of matches that -- in
relation to par, but I think he had a good chance to win if it was a medal event, too,
last week, so in the end it is certainly -- you can get by in Match Play shooting even
par, 1-under at times, even over par, and winning matches; whereas you get passed quickly
if it is a stroke-play event. I played well. I was under par last week one -- I played
against him - highest score I had which I was 1-under that day just had made a lot of
pars, one birdie, so... That is just how it goes in that format.

Q. Talk a little bit about snow boarding, just what attracts you to it and considering
what happens to Mickelson a few years ago with his accident, does that in any way maybe
make you think twice?

DAVID DUVAL: No. Not at all. I just -- I enjoy doing it, the scenery changes every 20
minutes, in essence, unless you have a perfectly clear day, each time you get back up on
top of a mountain it is a different look and I enjoy that a lot. The silence of it is
great. I think it is a great challenge for me. I just like being there, always liked being
in the mountains.

Q. Why that over skiing?

DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. I just picked it up a few years ago. Looked like it will be
a lot of fun and I did the skiing too. I mean, I was a skier before I switched to the
board, so just once I got on, just didn't want to get off. That is kind of the story that
you hear about everybody, really. Really catches -- you get a nice knee-deep powder day,
you are just -- man, you don't go back.

Q. What is your favorite places? Name three great snow boarding --

DAVID DUVAL: I go to Sun Valley Idaho.

Q. That is it?

DAVID DUVAL: Yes. 

Q. I don't know if I am putting too much psychology in this, seems like golfers they
all seem to have a little thrill gene in them. You see Greg Norman with his -- he goes --
he went diving with sharks; some people fly planes, and then you have the skiers. Do you
think that is part of because golf may be too stayed and you need a little thrill
somewhere else?

DAVID DUVAL: No. I don't think so.

Q. Then what do you think?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, people who fly planes - it is the safest means of travel, so I don't
see why that is a big thrill or -- diving with sharks is not exactly my idea of fun, but
you know, I just -- I don't know. You are making it out like we are the only people that
do those things which is -- I mean, a lot of people ski and snow board and drive and fly
planes; we are no different than anybody else is my point. I think the players say that
all the time but nobody wants to hear it, but it is true. In essence, just the same
activities -- a lot of families go on ski vacations every year; a lot of recreational
pilots; various things, so I think we are just -- I think all it shows is how we are
normal people.

Q. When do you think you might go up to Augusta between now and then?

DAVID DUVAL: Sunday night after Atlanta.

Q. Before then?

DAVID DUVAL: No, it is fun to go up there and play golf, they treat you well, but you
know, it is not the same, so...

Q. Did you do that last year?

DAVID DUVAL: I actually went up, kind of did an outing; played one day with a few
friends, that was it.

Q. No advantage to going up a couple of weeks before?

DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. I don't think so necessarily because it doesn't play
anything like the golf tournament and even -- you know, as everybody knows, Monday to
Thursday is not the same, even Wednesday to Thursday is not the same, but it certainly --
several weeks prior is not going to be anything similar.

Q. The way you played last year, now that you look back on it, do you think maybe did
you peak too soon or anyway you prepared differently for this year so that you get it in
gear for the Majors?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I think I believe the difference, you know, if you look at my stats,
actual stats from the second half of the year, they weren't bad by any means. I had a
couple of chances to win, I didn't win. I had several Top-5s and 10s, but also I played
eight golf tournaments from the beginning of June 'til the end of the year, and the point
I am getting at, I think the reason the results weren't as good, first of all, it is hard
to keep a pace like that, but also I just simply -- I believe I scheduled -- my schedule
was -- didn't flow as well. I didn't have three weeks in a row; couple of weeks off; three
weeks in a row like I do a lot through June. So that is what I am trying to work on more
this year; make a better schedule for myself.

Q. Is it taxing to win a lot early?

DAVID DUVAL: No. I think it is taxing to win a lot period. The timing doesn't -- I
don't think that is relevant necessarily. But it is taxing because you are there every
week and if you are playing good, it takes more out of you when you have a chance to win;
whether you win or not, certainly it takes more out of you than if you are teeing off at 9
o'clock Sunday morning, you just don't have the stress levels and the glare of all the
people and the media, it is not as intense, so you just kind of are doing your thing. You
play golf; change shoes; you leave. It is just -- it takes a lot more when you are playing
real well.

Q. How has your schedule changed in the last year to this year?

DAVID DUVAL: So far it has not with the exception of adding this event.

Q. Missed the next two in Florida?

DAVID DUVAL: Correct.

Q. Between Augusta and the Open, what did you change?

DAVID DUVAL: More so after the U.S. Open is where I feel I need to do a better job. So
I got a pretty good flow, I think up 'til the U.S. Open just got to visit it from there.

Q. Any formula? What do you mean when you say better flow?

DAVID DUVAL: Just like I said, I have been playing a few weeks; not breaking it up -
playing next week; then not playing for three weeks; then playing two weeks; then not
taking two more off. More of play 3 weeks; take two weeks; play two weeks; just try to
catch a rhythm where for me where I am out for two, three weeks at a time, not just spots
here and there. 

Q. Any kind of goal of yours to try and hit every stop on the Tour by the time you are
done?

DAVID DUVAL: By the time my career is over?

Q. Yeah.

DAVID DUVAL: Certainly I'd like to. I would like to try to do that. How it is going to
materialize, I don't know, you just have to add a few here and there, but I would like to
do that.

Q. Regarding your schedule you said earlier in the year that you were thinking about
maybe playing two, three events in Europe this year.

DAVID DUVAL: I think I said thinking about making an additional trip.

Q. Which would probably be about two or three events in Europe?

DAVID DUVAL: No, it would be an additional tournament in Europe.

Q. Have you progressed with that at all?

DAVID DUVAL: I don't really -- I don't think I can talk about that stuff right now. So
I don't really know and I won't give you an answer anyways right now. Work in progress.

Q. Is your mindset going into a tournament different depending on whether or not Tiger
Woods is in it?

DAVID DUVAL: No, absolutely not.

Q. Makes no difference to you?

DAVID DUVAL: No.

Q. Do you plan on going snow boarding maybe over the next two weeks after this event?

DAVID DUVAL: There is an outside chance I might go next week for about two days, just
kind of shoot up there for a couple of days and come home. I thought I was originally
going to be boarding this week. Last time I was there I didn't think that would be my last
trip for the year. So maybe next week for a couple of days, but it won't be for very long
because there is some serious stuff coming up.

Q. Are you fairly anonymous when you go up there snow boarding?

DAVID DUVAL: No. I get a little less each time. Not really. Yeah, little less each
year, but also seemingly, believe it or not, seems like I am recognized more up there than
anywhere else.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT