WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2000
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I'm very pleased to have won, obviously. I think it was a bit of a
tough day, a tough match. I enjoyed being out there with Sergio. He's a good kid. He has a
lot of flare, plays some good golf. And I believe I played a little bit better, and I
think that's why I won. I believe we probably both gave each other one hole. So that kind
of evened it out. And in the end, I think I just played better. 
 
Q. You don't have teammates here, but playing Sergio, was it a Ryder Cup flavor?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, I don't believe so. We can handle that once every couple of years, and
that's enough.  
 
Q. This tournament is all of a sudden kind of fun, isn't it?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, it is fun. Like I said, I came in here with a sour attitude a little
bit last year, and then kind of got into it and really had fun playing. I wasn't very
successful. But with the atmosphere of the Ryder Cup and such, it kind of made me remember
how much I enjoyed doing it and playing the matches. There really is a lot to be said for
going out and playing. The only person I had to worry about was playing Sergio today. I
didn't have to worry about if Tiger was way under par or Davis Love was way under par.
That's irrelevant to what I'm doing. It's nice for a change to concentrate on just one
other person. 
 
Q. When you were an amateur, did you like match play?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I think I did. I don't recall having a ton of success there, but I enjoyed
it okay. 
 
Q. So much of amateur golf, obviously, is match play.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: It was, and I guess a little bit of it now. You have the Western and the
U.S. amateur, but it's kind of disappearing still. To be able to play different formats,
it's always good. 
 
Q. David, was there any point at the Ryder Cup where -- was it Sunday singles, or was
it before then that you really got into it?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I think -- I believe my first two matches I was beaten in my team matches,
and then the match I had -- don't get me wrong, they were fun. The first one I think we
were about even par, and got beat, I don't know, four and three by Montgomerie and Lawrie,
and they played beautiful in alternate shot. And then we had such a tough match, Davis
Love and myself against Jesper and Sergio. And that's the one that was really good stuff.
So I believe with Sergio knocking in a 8- or 10-foot putt for birdie to halve the match,
to do that, that was something else. And just to be there and be part of it was really
neat. And that day was -- that match in particular was like, man, this is cool. 
 
Q. Understanding that you only have to focus on one player, is it more stressful,
because it is a do-or-die situation, than say your normal four-day tournament? You can't
fix it the next day if you screw it up.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, you're right, you don't have that opportunity to come back. However,
I saw something where Andrew Magee said, was he disappointed? He said he got to go see his
kids and stuff now. Man, I'm going to be snow boarding, so I've got the best of both
worlds. I can keep doing what I love to do, or I can go do something else I love to do.
You don't have that chance to get going, but the next day -- but, hey, that's okay, and
that's why you better play good each time. 
 
Q. David, you had him putt for par on the first hole from about, looked like about 16
inches, fairly close. And then on 3 it was an awkward situation, where you're going to
mark from about ten inches, and he's going to replace his from a pretty short distance.
Was there any purpose to having him putt so many short ones early on, or was it not just
paying attention or what?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: His putt on the first hole was -- it was probably about that far
(indicating). 
 
Q. Keep going.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: That far (indicating.) That fish was this big (laughter).  
 I've seen it like you have on the TV. Putts are missing; and I'm sorry, but that's how
it is. Let's putt them. And on the third hole we had basically the same putt, actually. We
were both maybe two feet, maybe a little less, and with the greens being soft -- they were
a lot smoother today. They had less traffic and maybe dried out a little bit. But let's
just putt. I'm not in any hurry. I can putt them out, too. I'm not looking for anything to
be given to me. And so under those conditions, I think you need to play. 
 
Q. How far was the one he missed on -- was that 11?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: That was about three feet. 
 
Q. He sank two long putts on 4 and 5 to get 1-up, and then you responded with two
birdies on your own. Was that the first turnaround in the match, do you think that got you
going all the way through to the end?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: That helped, certainly, to get down after he made two long putts, and then
to -- two holes later, for him to be back down was important for me. I do believe I gave
him the gift on 9. And like I said, the other one he returned was on 11, so that kind of
balanced out. But that was a good part for me to kind of respond after he made
back-to-back birdies, for me to do the same thing. 
 
Q. David, about the short putts, was what you saw with Monty and Bjorn yesterday --?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I didn't see what they did. I just have seen a few in my matches. Even
some of the putts that go in are going in in the air. They're flying in, they're bouncing.
Not so much today. But you get it outside 15, 16, 17 inches, you don't know what can
happen. So I'm sorry that was an issue. I didn't think that was a big deal. 
 
Q. That's part of match play, isn't it, though? Trying to psych guys out and make them
work a little harder?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, it is part of it, I guess. I don't seek to have any gamesmanship, I
don't do that kind of thing. I just aim to -- I don't expect any putt to be given to me;
so therefore, I hope the person I'm playing isn't expecting me to give them any either.
Don't be surprised if you roll it up there pretty close and you don't hear anything from
me (laughter). 
 
Q. With that being said, and as competitive as you are, is that maybe one of the
reasons you are starting to enjoy this match play more and more, that you can really go
one-on-one in something like this?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know what else I can say -- I think I've answered it the same way
three or four times. I think it's a combination of a lot of things of why I'm enjoying the
format more and more. I wish I could keep on and give you a better answer, but I don't
have anything more to say about it. 
 
Q. Earlier you talked about atmosphere, the fact that you were out there with Sergio
today. Did it have a different feel than yesterday's match?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, yeah, for me it did, because I haven't -- there's been -- I haven't
had very many photographers out there with the matches I've been in. Haven't had many
writers. And today it was, there was a lot more. I guess it was a more important match in
someone's eyes. I thought the first couple were important for me. So the atmosphere
changed. And then you're dwindling down to fewer and fewer players, too. And that just
enhances it. And then you have, I think, two players who have a pretty high profile in the
game, and hey, enough said. That's kind of some of the neat things when you look early on
before the tournament starts. You look at possibilities. Third round here, if they go this
and that: Hey, we can have a neat little match here, and this one here. And a few of them
panned out. And I think that's what got people excited. 
 
Q. Given that, can you talk a little bit about the fact that you went earlier than you
would have liked last year; Tiger went out in the quarters? No. 1 and 2, everyone wants to
see you guys meet. Can you talk a little bit about that and what that might mean in terms
of having some fun with that this week?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: It would be great fun; I would very much embrace it. However, I don't even
know who I'm supposed to play tomorrow. I was asked yesterday when I got done who I was
playing today, and I didn't know because I hadn't looked in the draw and gone through it.
I'm going to be a little more concerned tomorrow. And we've got to get up earlier and do
36. We'll get to that tomorrow afternoon. 
 
Q. There's been written a lot of hype about him and Tiger taking this rivalry to the
next century, almost to where you've been somewhat forgotten. Did this match carry any
more meaning because of that?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No. 
 
Q. Would you elaborate?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, it did. I enjoy playing and doing well, and he had had some exciting
things going on and had done some tremendous stuff at the PGA, but I'm pretty good in this
game, too, still. And in the end, that might be a very accurate statement. It might be
Sergio and Tiger as a rivalry, and I might not be involved. But right now I think I'm -- I
could be just as much a part of it right now. And I think for me, certainly I think, had I
lost to Sergio today, I would have been further cast aside. And I think it would have been
-- there would have been a lot of: "See, that's what we're talking about." So
did it make it more exciting for me to win in the end? No, it didn't. I was just excited
to be here and play good. But certainly I think the fallout could have been a little
greater had the results been different. 
 
Q. David, do you feel that your workout regime is now kind of kicking in, you feel like
you're really starting to get to the point where you're improving?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I believe I've played pretty well all year. The tough thing about it
is that last year is what's freshest in most people's minds. So they compare with what
happened on the West Coast for me to what happened last year. If you look at that, I'm
going to have a hard time in any year doing anything greater. So I believe -- I feel like
I've played well. I simply -- I believe my wedge game was bad and my putting was poor for
the first several events. And I believe that stuff -- those parts are starting to turn
around. And I think that's why I've been a little more consistent. I believe I've been
under par every match. And I think that's why I'm kind of starting to get a little bit
better and getting back to where I think I should be. And I don't know how important the
fitness stuff plays a role, but, it's just something to do and I'm going to go do some
later. 
 
Q. How many were you under today?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Let me think. I made three birdies, a bogey, three under -- I think I was
three under. 
 
Q. You do your weight workout in the morning?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: A lot of times. 
 
Q. You don't find that --?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: It depends on if I have plenty of time to rest and recover. If I'm teeing
off at 1:00, I can go do stuff at 7:00 in the morning, and I've got five hours or so to
recover. I've worked out afterwards and stuff this week, just simply because the timing is
not quite right. I believe I've teed off at 11:00 every day, right in that area. So I've
been doing things afterwards. 
 
Q. David, how difficult was that sand save, I think on 16?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I wasn't excited about the lie I drew, nor the fact that it was a
little bit on a downhill. It was a hard shot. I really felt like when I hit it there -- I
didn't expect the ball to be there. I expected it to be more of a flat lie. It's a forced
carry, and the ball is going to hit on the green and pop up there and stop. However, I had
it where I was in a tough spot, and I believe I hit a very good shot. And then more
importantly, I think I hit a better putt to knock it in and stay up. I think that was what
was really kind of -- kept the match in my favor, I believe. Because that would have been
a breath of fresh air for me to give one away like that to him, that late. 
 
Q. Not just in your situation, but do you have any theories on why so many top players
have changed caddies over the last year?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, I don't. 
 
Q. Birdie details.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: The second hole I was about four feet, maybe. I didn't have to putt. He
made a 6. The 6th hole I was 10 feet. The 7th hole I was probably 12 feet. I bogeyed the
9th. I hit out of the bunker to about 8 feet. The 12th hole I hit out of the bunker to
about probably six feet, seven feet. 14, I made a bogey. I hit out of the bunker to 12
feet. Then the last hole I hit a wedge to three feet. 
 
Q. A lot of sand today.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I was, actually. And none of them were normal stances or lies or anything. 
 
Q. Downhill and --?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah. I guess the one on 2 wasn't bad. That was kind of normal. Every
other one was a nasty stance, where I had a foot in the bunker and one out. 
 
Q. From where you were on 17, did you see where Sergio was, you saw how close he was
there?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Did I know how close he had hit?  
 
Q. Yes.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I knew it was certainly within 10 or 12 feet. 
 
Q. Is your mindset there, like maybe -- an amateur, let me get it inside of you. Are
you thinking that or trying to get it close?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I'm still trying to -- on those type of shots, when I play well on my
wedges, which I'm starting to do, I'm trying to knock them in. So to answer your question,
I'm trying to get it closer, I'm not trying to leave it just outside his or anything like
that.  
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT