WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2000
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 DAVID DUVAL: We didn't have to play a whole lot of holes in this rain, I'm glad.
Surprisingly, the weather was pretty nice for most of the day. And around 12:00 it started
raining. I felt like I played reasonably well. I gave away a couple of little putts I
missed, and I'm not so sure -- I think that's really just because of the softness of the
greens. It just bounced off. I'm sure a lot of peoples' putts have. Other than that, a
pretty good day. And I don't think my opponent played his best. I wish he could have
played a little better. I think he would have liked to. And certainly I would liked to
have played better. But I won, and that's what I was trying to do.  
 
Q. All things considered, Cabrera didn't have his best. And you can't feel too sorry
for a guy in a situation like this. You have to golf your ball, and let him worry about
his.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: That's the whole deal. You're not going to -- on a day like that, when
your opponent -- you're not going to play down to their level and make it a tight match.
You want to go and get out of the rain or whatever it is. It's too bad that you travel so
far and come and don't play your best. But --. 
 
Q. Better him than you?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, yeah, in a selfish way, certainly. I'm glad I played okay and I
played well enough to win. And that's really the aim in this game, this ballgame, is to
play well enough to win. 
 
Q. You were using a bunch of different putters. Do you feel like you have a putter you
can trust when you have to?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: You know, like I said, I feel like a putted pretty well. I missed a couple
of little ones. Seriously, they bounced. They did. I don't think you believe me. But I
putted well, then I made a nice putt on the last hole. And I made a good birdie putt on
round 7. A couple of nice little ones in between, 8, 9, 10, somewhere through that
stretch. So I'm not complaining. I feel like I'm setting up well, I feel like I'm rolling
it well, and I feel like I've turned around. The first several weeks of the year I don't
feel like I putted well. I feel like I'm putting it well, which is kind of what I want to
do. 
 
Q. David, do you think that you're going to be able to handle it when you play a round
of golf in the sun, or have you established a relationship with the wet weather?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, I'm looking forward to Florida, yeah. I love playing out here, but
this is -- looking back, this has got to be the worst the weather has been since I've
played on Tour. It's too bad, because every place we play is so pretty, and golf courses
are good. But then all of a sudden we're playing and it's slop fields. There's just
nothing you can do. Surprisingly this golf course is pretty dry, considering everything
it's gotten and the beating it's taken. And we have to play it up, but you're not playing
it out of standing water. It might be soon, I guess, if this keeps up. But it's a shame
that it's happened. But hopefully next year it's real nice everywhere. 
 
Q. Last year coming into this event you didn't seem to be a big fan of match play. Have
you talked yourself into liking it more?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I don't believe I needed to talk myself into it. I think what
happened is I came in here last year kind of thinking of the negatives as opposed to the
positive aspects of it. Where like today I didn't play my best and I won. Hey, that's a
great deal about this game. When I was out there today playing, it's blowing hard and it's
threatening to rain, and I kind of thought one of the neat deals about this format is I
don't have to worry about how anybody is playing except my opponent. And if somebody is
going 6- or 7-under, hey, good for them. But I'm not going to be 6 or 7 behind. So that
was pretty cool. But I think that I was so far removed from match play, I think in '92 was
the last time I'd really played as an amateur a lot of it. Certainly I played a couple in
The Presidents Cup. But that was more of a team-format type thing. And like I said earlier
in the week, I think the Ryder Cup just kind of made me remember how much fun it can be
and how exciting the format can be. 
 
Q. Is it a relief to get by the first round, or is it tomorrow: "I'm back even
anyway"?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, I think there is a bit of that relief after the first round. The big
story last year, and everybody was curious this year, is if everybody in the top seeds
were going to leave early, like they seemed to last year. And so it's nice to play and get
by. And I get to play tomorrow. I just hope that it doesn't rain. 
 
Q. What part of your game are you trying to improve on the most right now?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: At this point, I want to make more putts. Sound familiar? That's about
all. I believe a couple of things have happened this year that have prevented me from
scoring the best I can each day, and that's at the end of this past year. And then getting
ready for this year, I wasn't swinging well. I wasn't playing particularly well. I had to
practice in the off season, and hit a lot of balls. I don't normally do that. I usually
practice a lot of short game stuff. I didn't do that as much, even half as much as I
normally like. I believe my wedge game has been pretty poor for me and let me down. I
believe my putting has been pretty poor. I believe that's the big difference between -- as
far as results go, from last year to this year. I think that I had to spend a lot of time
hitting full shots, 6 irons and 5-irons and stuff just to get swinging better, headed into
this year. And I had to neglect some other aspects that I don't normally. And I think that
now it's improving. It's not as consistently great as it usually is, but it's improving.
And I look after heading into TPC, I'll have a lot of time to really spend some quality
work in those areas, and I think I'll be back to a hundred percent full speed then. 
 
Q. Just in general terms about the match, did you get up early?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I was up after the second hole and then I missed a little putt on the
third. And then actually he was 1-up after 6. And then I turned 1-up, I won the 7th and
9th and then I won 10 and 11 and 12 to go 4-up. And then actually I lost a hole, the 13th,
I think.  
 
Q. Just go through 7 and 9?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: 7 I hit -- I made a birdie, a two. 
 
Q. Just --?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I hit a 6-iron on the green about 18 feet, maybe.  
 
Q. And then on --?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No. 9 I made a par. 
 
Q. And he was over in the right?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: He was well right out and two and chipped short and then chipped short
again about ten feet. The 10th hole he hit over the green and I 2-putted from 20 feet. 11
he 3-putted the hole, actually, and I chipped up on there close. 12th hole I birdied. That
put me 4-up. The 13th hole he made a par and I conceded the hole. I was making a number, 5
or 6. And then 14 I made par and won the hole. 15 I made par and he missed his birdie
putt.  
 
Q. How long was your putt on 12?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Four feet, maybe.  
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT