BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 22, 2000
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL: Well, today was a day I played pretty well again. I seemed to stall-out a
little bit out there on the back nine, and couldn't quite get the feel of the greens, it
seemed. And then facing things -- made some good pars on the back nine. I can't complain
too much. The score I put up is about where I should have been. I feel pretty good. I have
a chance tomorrow.

Q. David, you struggled with the putter today?

DAVID DUVAL: I kind of felt like I did. But unless I make everything, I always feel
like I do. You know, it's not so much that I feel like I putted poorly. I don't feel like
I've putted poorly all year; it's just they haven't gone in. I lipped-out a lot, and I did
again today, maybe two, three, four times maybe -- which, I guess, it's encouraging to see
the ball hitting the hole a lot, and they are eventually going to go in. And, hopefully,
that will happen tomorrow.

Q. You talked yesterday about the fact that you're in the celebrity field means you get
to play the same course consecutive days. Is the putting, being able to read those greens,
having an idea of what they are, a big advantage of back-to-back days? 

DAVID DUVAL: I think that is the advantage. Also, the greens today, you know, the
speed, as well as the firmness of them was going to be very similar to tomorrow, if not
the same. Whereas, back on Wednesday and Thursday, it might have been a bit different. So
I've got a good idea of how it's going to be playing going into the greens, and,
hopefully, I can use that to my advantage.

Q. How have you gotten along with your celebrity partners? Have there been any
anecdotes to share over the last few days? 

DAVID DUVAL: No, not really. It's been good. We've had fun. Everybody has played pretty
good. I just saw the scores yesterday, I thought we shot a heck of a score. We shot 56
yesterday as a team at Indian Wells, and that wasn't even in the money for the day. I
can't imagine a team playing much better. But I guess you kind of have to, here. 

Q. How do you enter tournaments this year after what you accomplished last year? Do you
think -- you said, "I've got a chance." Do you feel more than that inside?

DAVID DUVAL: Do I feel like I have more than a chance tomorrow? 

Q. Do you expect to win instead of "have a chance" to win? Are you in that
positive of a mindset? 

DAVID DUVAL: That might be fair. I believe I have a very good chance to win tomorrow. I
don't know, you know, if I knew I was two behind, I could give you a better answer, but I
don't know exactly where I'm going to stand when the day is over. But I think I have a
very good chance. There's not too many people between me and the lead, and so I'll be -- I
don't know if I'll be in the last group, but I'll be near the last groups, and that's
helpful. And so, you know, hopefully some of the experience I have from being there a lot
in the last few years will payoff tomorrow. 

Q. I don't remember the hole, but can you talk about the shot, the drive that went to
the left and then the recovery shot you made? It looked like somebody clicked a camera
before the drive? Can you just tell me what happened? 

DAVID DUVAL: Without getting into it too much, I know you're going to be fighting
cameras anyway, so that's irrelevant. I hit a bad drive. I just pulled it a little bit and
it went through a bunker; it rolled up next to a tree. It wasn't, you know, wedged up
against the tree, but it was close to it and it was impeding my swing directly at the
hole. So, I had to aim -- I was 167 yards to the front of the green, and I don't -- I must
have had to aim 70 yards right of the green, I don't know, and just hit a big, sweeping
hook. You know, I tried it. I had 7-iron, and I looked to see if I had a chance to hit it
out of bounds, which I felt like I had a pretty good chance of doing that (laughs). But at
the same time, I was -- I had played six holes in a row, making pars and I wasn't making
putts. It's almost like I was in a position where I had to try to force something a little
bit. I figured if I hit a good shot I could -- I could get it up near the green. I didn't
really expect to get on, necessarily and I thought, if anything, I would be a bit right
and I could chip up and make par that way. But it turned out better than I expected; it
rolled onto the green. That was on 16. 

Q. You seem pretty confident about tomorrow. I was just wondering if you prefer to --?

DAVID DUVAL: I seem what? 

Q. Confident about your chance tomorrow. I was wondering if you prefer to be just a
couple strokes back or would you prefer to be leading? 

DAVID DUVAL: Well, if I had to choose, I would choose to be leading because that means
everybody else would have to catch me. But, you know, I've won a few events from behind.
I've won a few from ahead. There's a lot of different ways to do it, and I'm in a position
now where I'm going to be behind; so, that's what I'll face tomorrow.

DAVID DUVAL: Thank you.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT