MERCEDES CHAMPIONSHIPS
January 5, 2000
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Do you think 26 under would be a reasonable goal again? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yes, I do. I think it would be a very good score again (laughter).  
 
Q. Tiger is obviously going to go for five in a row this week. You were going for four
straight was it two years ago. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I think so. 
 
Q. Talk about what that's like in finishing a year in such great fashion and then
trying to pick it up again. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: It didn't feel like -- it didn't feel to me like I was trying for a fourth
in the row. There was no continuity for it. It's the start of a new year. I have a hard
time viewing it that way. It really didn't seem that way to me.  
 
Q. Talk about the fans out here, what it means to you to have some fun with them in
this ProAm where you can be a bit relaxed?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: There weren't a whole lot out there at 7 a.m. Can't say as I blame them.
Saw a few towards the end, which was nice. I guess they don't get huge galleries here.
There are some other fun things to do, too, so.  
 
Q. How much weight did you lose? What did you do for it?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I've worked very hard, I've eaten very well. I've lost very little weight. 
 
Q. Redistributed?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, something along those lines.  
 
Q. Did you actually go on a diet?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, I did not go on a diet. I just have been working hard. 
 
Q. There's 30 fat guys out here looking for a clue. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: There's no secret.  
 
Q. Why haven't we found it?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: There's no secret. Go work hard and eat well. You know, that will happen.
I guess if there is a secret, that's the secret: to work hard. 
 
Q. What's the work that you've done?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Lifting weights and running. 
 
Q. Your weight regimen isn't real golf specific, yours is heavier lifting. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yes. I lift heavy, not at all specific. Just general bodybuilding, like
anybody else would do lifting.  
 
Q. How much can you bench? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't -- I don't know. I've never didn't a max. Not a whole lot, though,
probably. I mean, I wouldn't know a number, though.  
 
Q. Do you do sets of ten reps?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I do decreasing reps, increasing weight, somewhere from six to eight sets. 
 
Q. About how much time would you say you lift per weight session? An hour?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: An hour, an hour and 15.  
 
Q. Six to eight sets per muscle group?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Uh-huh.  
 
Q. How does that translate to your golf?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: How?  
 
Q. Yes. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I think what it does is it generally makes me feel better. It makes
me know that I am as fit and as strong -- I shouldn't say as strong, but certainly as fit
and as athletic as anybody playing right now. It makes you feel good that, you know, after
a long week, long weeks, long, hard days, you have the endurance and the strength, it's
not going to fail me.  
 
Q. When did you feel the need to do that?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Four years ago when I started. 
 
Q. Straight out of school?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No. I've been out of school for about six years. When I lost a lot of
weight four years ago, five years ago maybe now, I don't know.  
 
Q. The heavy stuff new or have you always done heavy stuff? Did you do golf specific
before?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I've never worked out golf specific. I don't believe in it. I think it's
wrong. You know, I've always lifted, -- when I've lifted, I've done as much as I can. I'm
not an expert in all these things. You know, but I would imagine, unless you tax your
muscles, you're not going to get stronger. If you lift paper clips all day, you're not
going to get stronger. I felt in the off-season or toward really the last third of last
year, I needed to change my regimen and get a little more serious about it and step it up
as well as my golf. 
 
Q. Has it affected your swing or distance at all?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, no. Everything feels pretty good. Everything feels the same.  
 
Q. A lot of stretching after heavy lifting?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Not really. 
 
Q. No?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No. 
 
Q. You say you focused on losing a little bit of power --?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Beg your pardon. 
 
Q. You say you focused on losing power --?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I didn't lose power in my golf; I lost strength in my muscles.  
 
Q. What did that affect? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: My ego. Didn't affect my golf, I mean it really didn't. I just wasn't as
strong as I was in June, and I didn't like that. 
 
Q. Overall, you didn't feel as good as you do now?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Right. In general, yeah. Just bruised my ego. 
 
Q. Who is more of an idol of yours, Charles Atlas or Sam Snead?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: (No response.) 
 
Q. You said last year, if Majors come along, they come along (inaudible). Do you feel
differently about that this year?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, I still feel like you have to play well that week and you have to get
good breaks. But maybe if what you're asking is if I'm going to try to focus more around
them? Yes, I am going to try to be that much more prepared when those weeks start. I'm not
saying that I didn't feel like I wasn't in the past, but try a little bit more to get
ready, focus a little bit more around them. Like I said, I still think in the end, you
have to play well, but you have to get some breaks, you have to have a little bit of luck
those weeks. 
 
Q. How much weight did you actually lose?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. I didn't keep track. 
 
Q. You don't keep track?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No. 
 
Q. You shot lights out last year at this course. What is it about this course that
brings out the best in your game?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I just played well last year, you know. We didn't have the Trade Winds, it
didn't play as hard. I was ready to play. I practiced in the off-season.  
 
Q. How do you feel coming into this week?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I feel like I'm playing pretty good. I don't know if I'm quite playing
quite as well as last year, but I'm working on it. It's going to be different, though,
because I think we're going to have the winds like they normally do here. It's going to be
a lot different than last year.  
 
Q. When you start a year like this, do you have numbers set in your head as far as
goals, tournament wins, that sort of thing? What do you have as far as goals for this
year? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I certainly have some goals. We were just obviously talking about
some of them. Those are my next steps. That's what I'd like to do.  
 
Q. You mentioned the wind. How will that change your approach this year over last year?

 
 DAVID DUVAL: I'll have to hit the ball a little lower probably, have to be more
cautious of the crosswinds. Generally, just do what I have to do to play in the wind.
Blowing 30, you can't hit it high and not worry about it. You have to move the ball around
a little bit more.  
 
Q. Did you notice any subtle difference this year with the change in terms of the wind?

 
 DAVID DUVAL: I'm sorry?  
 
Q. Did you notice a little more about the winds, did it affect you? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: When?  
 
Q. Today. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, yeah, it's blowing 30 today, and it didn't blow last year. Obviously
it was different. There wasn't any wind last year. When it blows 30, compared to no wind,
it's a lot different playing.  
 
Q. The harder work and the workout regimen, how much of that is a reaction to what
Tiger did or is it? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No. I mean, you know, I want to become a better player, and I want to
improve. I feel like to win the tournaments that I want to win, those things are going to
have to happen. If it's to beat Tiger, then so be it. If it's to beat somebody else, then
so be it. I feel that that's kind of what I need to do to try to get to that next level.  
 
Q. In what ways do you derive motivation from Tiger? Has he become a benchmark for
everybody?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: You know, yeah, he probably has right now. If he hasn't, I don't know who
is or what is. How? Well, I think it's kind of like how I played last year, the first half
the year. You look at it and realize, "Hey, if you want to beat him, you have to play
better, you have to get better." I think that's just, you -- in the first half of
this year, it might be Ernie Els who goes there. I think you just continually have to
evolve and improve. It just so happens that he's leading the pack right now. I was leading
last year, whatever, somebody before that. You know, it's just the progression. 
 
Q. Do you get a sense that what you did the first eight tournaments of the year last
year has largely been forgotten when people go back and review the year?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, probably a little bit. You know, that was a long time ago, you know.
 
 
Q. Does it feel like a long time ago?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, it does, actually (laughter). It does feel like a while ago. That's
okay. I mean, a lot of great things happened in the second half of the year, as well, from
some -- some super play from some players, some Ryder Cup stuff, the success of some other
events.  
 
Q. What is your take on why your performance kind of dipped a little bit after April of
last year? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I think the biggest factor that I could come up with is that I think it
was a poor scheduling on my part. You know, I didn't have a rhythm going like I did in the
first half of the year as far as tournaments, playing and such. You know, it just didn't
seem to fit together well. I think, therefore, I just had a hard time getting a rhythm on
the golf course, as well. I think that's the biggest thing. Then after The Ryder Cup was
over, you know, I was spent, the year was, you know, almost over. I mean, it really was
for me then. Obviously, I played some. I knew I wasn't going to Spain. I had THE TOUR
Championship, a few other events, but otherwise I was kind of done. 
 
Q. Will you reschedule differently this year as a result?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, I'm going to try, obviously, to do better from like after the US
Open through the PGA as much as anything, through that little stretch, to really do better
with my scheduling. 
 
Q. What works for you, like two on, two off, three in a row? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I certainly would prefer to play two in a row, two or three events
consecutively as opposed to playing a week, taking a week off, playing a week. But
sometimes it just doesn't work out that way, you just can't. I might have to change my
schedule a little bit and go to places I haven't been before or go to places I didn't go
last year, whatever it might be.  
 
Q. What are you going to do next week?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I'm going to go snowboarding.  
 
Q. Any changes this year outside of the clothing?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: As far as?  
 
Q. Equipment or anything else. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, no. No, huh-uh. I don't want to change my equipment. I like the clubs.
You know, I believe I was very lucky at a point when I hooked up with them. It just so
happened they were looking for a younger player. No, I have no intentions of ever not
playing Titleist, I think they're by far the most superior equipment on the market.  
 
Q. I wonder if you could just size up what Tiger did the last six months of the year,
not so much the wins, but the fact that there were so many Top 10 finishes? I think there
were 13 out of 14 to end the year. To play that well for such a long period of time, your
thoughts on that? Is it impressive in today's climate of so many good players out here? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: The wins or the Top 10s?  
 
Q. More the Top 10s, I think. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, it is. I think when you talk about a player like Tiger, it's not so
much impressive when you stack it against the other players. I think it's just more so for
him as an individual to be on top of it, you know, for so long. I mean, he's on top of it
now. It's not -- I don't know where he finished at the first half of the year, but I know
he won at the West Coast event.  
 
Q. San Diego. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I'm sure he finished Top 10 a lot of other times, too. Hell, if you look
back to when he turned pro, seems like he's finished in the Top 10 every week (laughter).
I don't think you want to talk about it as -- I understand about the last part of last
year. You know, he's played super golf for a long time. I guess a few things clicked for
him last year towards the middle of the year, and he's been -- you know, I don't like to
say he's been on fire or on a roll. If you want to say anything, he's been on his game
since then. I think, give him credit. Don't say he's been on a roll; he's been on his game
and he's been playing like he thinks he can. I would expect nothing less for a while to
come. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Thank you.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT