THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY SOUTHERN COMPANY
October 26, 1999
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I was just going to ask you what it was like today out there, David? So many people
talked about it being a day where golf really doesn't matter, when it is going through the
motions. What was it like out there?

DAVID DUVAL: It was a lot different than it normally would be, certainly. I don't know
how to describe it. Just a day that, you know, I think I don't think today was any easier
than yesterday, but yesterday I think was the worst part about it all. I think today just
trying to get a grasp of it being real. 

Q. Memories about Payne, personally, any dealings with him that you will think about
the most in the future?

DAVID DUVAL: Not any specific ones that I am going to give you, no. Certainly there is
a lot of different things. I view Payne as my friend. I think he would have said the same
thing about me. I think that is about the best thing you can say. I think it is difficult
right now because all the players are being asked their opinions and emotions about what
is going on, and just like anybody, they can't get a hold of it or get a grasp of it so
quickly. So I think you probably have heard a lot of people are at a loss. I am certainly
one of them. 

Q. Do you think the tournament should be played, and how difficult will it be now to
play the final rounds in light of what has happened?

DAVID DUVAL: You know what, whether it should be played or not is not for me to say. I
have no say in the competitions. I think it will be difficult to really be focused on what
you are doing. But I imagine everybody will be playing and doing the best they can. But I
don't know how spectacular the golf will be.

Q. How much will winning this tournament mean? How much does this tragedy take away
from what winning this tournament would mean?

DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. Really, I don't know. It is a very big important event, but
everybody has been frustrated with me. Since the five years I have played, golf is not
terribly important to me. It is not the biggest thing in my life. And again, it still
isn't. It never has been. But what it will take away, I don't know. The feelings will
probably not be as great as they might have been. I think several years down the road, a
year down the road, whatever it might be, the achievement itself, there won't be an
asterisk next to it. But in the short term, there might be.

Q. Playing today, Tiger said it is good for him, therapeutic, to play today. To play
today, was it because of the obligation you felt to the amateurs who paid the money to be
here, or how was it for you, why you played today and some of the others didn't?

DAVID DUVAL: Certainly, I felt like it's a bit of an obligation, but at the same time,
we were given the options of playing or not. We weren't told we had to play. But if you
could tell me what else I should have done, I would have been open to the suggestions, but
I didn't know what else I should do.

Q. The best thing for you was to be here and go about business?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I think probably, certainly, it is something that, you know, at
least you are out there and occupied for five and a half hours; it goes really fast. What
else are you going to do? You sit around and -- I don't know.

Q. Would you mind just running through where you were yesterday when you heard about
it, the circumstances of the day for you?

DAVID DUVAL: I was just finishing lunch, actually, when a manufacturer's rep was here.
He said that -- "What is so important about that shot?" I was just getting done
with lunch with a rep. His wife had called him and said that there was a plane, that was a
private plane, that was -- they didn't know what was wrong with it exactly. And he
believed everybody was unconscious, and there was a prominent golfer on board. Then it
just -- everybody else was curious as to what it was, what was going on, if it was
accurate, and then it all -- everybody realized it was true and it was accurate, so...

Q. Were you still in the lunchroom when you found out Payne was on board or sometime
later?

DAVID DUVAL: You know, actually, I went from there and I went 15 , 30 feet away to
register at the table there. One lady at the registration table said it was Payne. When I
got up and went inside from there to the locker room, the television said somebody was
leaving Orlando headed to Dallas, and they were on a Lear 35. So I was like, "Well,
that is not Payne." Because I am in that same program that he was with Flex Jet, and
they don't fly their 35s. They fly 31s and 6s, so it was kind of like a brief relief, that
it just that must have been inaccurate. Then we found out it was a charter plane; it
wasn't through the company. 

Q. Continuing on about that, can you explain what is Flex Jet, how that works and how
you have used it?

DAVID DUVAL: It is a timeshare, just like an executive jet where you buy a piece of the
plane.

Q. Are you considered an owner?

DAVID DUVAL: Yes, you are actually on the title.

Q. How much concern do you derive from this? Do you get a feeling of this: "Could
have happened to anybody; it could have been me?"

DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, I certainly think it could have happened to anybody, and I don't
know -- concern, I don't -- I don't know how much -- I don't think it changes it. It is
proven that flying is the safest way to go. And we have no choice. If you are going to be
a professional golfer, you are going to fly. So it is just part of what you do.

Q. I know you thoroughly enjoyed the Ryder Cup experience. Now knowing that you were
his teammate there and how great a teammate he was and how great that experience was, will
it means even more now?

DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. I guess -- I don't know. I really don't know. I mean, you
know, I am in a tough position, I think, just like all the other players. You are asking
us to qualify everything about what has happened, and we don't know anymore than anybody
else does. So I don't know. It's the only Ryder Cup experience I will have had with him
obviously. The events that transpired up there were -- made it something you will never
forget, you know. It was just a shame that we won't be able to share that experience with
him again.

Q. When did you start with the jet program, and what were the main benefits you were
after? Tiger mentioned airport hassles. I would imagine time efficiency?

DAVID DUVAL: Right, that. It opens you up to a lot more. You can fly into a lot more
airports; you can fly a lot more closer. You don't spend the downtime, you know, sitting
around. It makes it a heck of a lot easier to get home to Jacksonville on Sunday nights.
And I don't know how long exactly I have been in it. I have been with Flex Jet just over a
year. I did it for a couple of years before that.

Q. It has been suggested by some that the TOUR Championship trophy should be renamed
for Payne. Do you think the PGA should do something for your friend as a permanent
tribute, maybe here or in Orlando?

DAVID DUVAL: I can't answer that. I can't answer that. I don't know.

Q. Do you recall the circumstances of either when you first met Payne or first played
with him or were paired with him, and was there anything memorable from that day?

DAVID DUVAL: I don't right now. I probably met him -- I don't know, but I probably --
at Medinah when I was 18. I think Payne is one of the people you seem like you have known
forever, just because he was so recognizable with his clothing and his hat. I think
everybody thinks they have known him for a long time.

Q. From the time you found out he was on board over the last day and a half or so, how
much time have you spent with other players, and how much, I mean, how big a part of the
conversation is that? Is there some kind of therapy between yourselves, do you think?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I haven't been around any players really. I was one of the four,
five people first here, and I saw Jim Fuyrk out here yesterday briefly. I saw Brent
Geiberger as he walked in the locker room. That was it. And this morning, I came in and
basically warmed up and teed off. So I haven't seen anybody. So I don't really know the --
the little interaction I have had with players, we don't know what to say to each other,
either. 

Q. Was there much interaction about it between you and your amateur partners today?

DAVID DUVAL: No.

Q. Nothing was said?

DAVID DUVAL: No.

Q. There has been some talk about some players going to the memorial service on Friday.
Do you think that is important? Are you going to grieve on your own? Any idea?

DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. I am unaware of what is going on; so can't really tell you.
I don't know if there is one Friday, what time it is going to be, any of that; so I can't
give you an answer.

Q. It is going to be a tough week, but how are you playing coming into this
championship?

DAVID DUVAL: I feel like I played okay. The last event I was in at Williamsburg. Didn't
play particularly well today. So I don't know anymore. I think I am playing okay. Little
tweak there and little tweak here, maybe it will be good enough. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT