WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 24, 1999
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. This is always a really good tournament with the previous format. Does it have a
chance to move up a notch with this new format, in your estimation?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, I don't think so. I think because the way it was -- I think it's hard
to get any better than a champions-type event. I don't think the quality of the player
that played in this event before can improve, because you're talking about winners from
all around the world who come here. All we did was change the name. I think the actual
prestige of the event might improve because of the new association with the World Golf
Championships, but actual quality of the players themselves I don't think can improve
beyond what it was. 
 
Q. Except you have a more international field than you've had in the past. In the past
you've only had two or three Europeans, for instance. And there are as many as twelve. It
probably improves in that respect.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Why did they not play in the past? 
 
Q. Well, conflicting events.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Is that what it was? 
 
Q. Do you feel like defending champion here?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Not quite as much as you might normally. 
 
Q. Can we read anything into this, David, as we go into the Ryder Cup, seeing a couple
of the pairings, that maybe they could be repeated in Boston?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Do I read anything into them? 
 
Q. Can we read anything into them?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't think so. I actually just saw the draw, and it seemed to me that
maybe there was four American players paired with European -- is it six? If it was more
than that, I think you might be able to. But no, not based on that. 
 
Q. You've still got another month, not to mention including this week, before the Ryder
Cup starts. Is that something that's in your thoughts, not to the point of being a
distraction, but it's a pretty big thing coming up? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yes, it is very much in the front of my mind. However, I think it would be
a very big distraction if it was next week or the following week. Just seeing as it is a
few weeks away, I can kind of consciously try to forget about it and worry about this week
and really put all my energies into that. 
 
Q. Are you looking forward to it?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Very much. 
 
Q. You've played an the Walker Cup teams and the Presidents Cups teams. Do you think it
will be very much different?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: From what I hear, it will be drastically different. I hear it is unlike
anything else. 
 
Q. Could you talk about playing with Sergio last week and just what you think of him in
general?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I enjoyed it very much. He was a really good guy. And you could tell
that he had a lot off respect for the game itself. You know, if he didn't have such a
great day, you wouldn't have known that by the way he handled himself and carried himself
throughout it. I'm certain he was hoping to really contend to win, and that just didn't
materialize. By the way he acted and by the way we talked on the course, you would have
thought he was having a lot better day than he was. And I think that's very commendable. 
 
Q. Is it difficult to tell how young he is on the course?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Strictly based on golf, yes. You know he's younger, you know he's a
teenager, just by how much -- he's just having so much fun. I don't know. He's just -- I
guess if you compare a player like myself, it might not look like I love doing what I do.
But I do love doing it. He's much more capable and able, outwardly showing that to the
people who are watching. I think that's a neat thing. 
 
Q. Do you think when you were 19, would you have been able to put up with the stresses
and pressures of playing professional golf and flying all over the world to play?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know if I was good enough to play when I was 19; so, I don't think
I need to worry about it. 
 
Q. Do you think that he can teach others, and perhaps even you, to present a happier
face on the golf course; or, if that is not your nature, you just can't do that, just
can't change that?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I think the last part of what you said, I don't think you can ask somebody
to be something they are not. I think it's unfair to expect other people -- I think it's
appropriate to try to appreciate people for what they are and what they do. 
 
Q. Would you find it hard to focus on one shot after another if you did let those
emotions become more apparent, do you think?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. It's possible, but I don't know. 
 
Q. Does this affect you at all? Do you find yourself smiling at him --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I did. I enjoyed playing with him a great, great deal. It was nice to see
some of the things he did, and try, and then to see his reactions to it. I got a kick out
of him. 
 
Q. After everyone has built you and Tiger up as being the rivalry, but with his
emergence, can this almost be a three-headed dragon with the three of you guys there?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I thought I was pushed aside. (Laughter.) I thought that's what everybody
was saying at PGA. I guess it can't be. I guess it can only be two. 
 
Q. To the degree that you can quantify this, can you compare the way you feel about
yourself and your game now, as compared to this same time last year when you won here?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I probably feel very similar, actually. If you'd asked me this back in
March or April, I would have told you at that point I feel a lot better about where I was
and how I was playing at that point, you know, four or five months ago than now. However,
having finished in the PGA and not doing quite as well as I would have liked, but still
having a respectable finish, and then kind of putting it more together last week, has
really given me a boost that I have needed, and probably lacked, since our U.S. Open. 
 
Q. How about the course itself? Obviously the course works for you because you won here
last year. I mean, from what you've seen this year, any major differences? Or is it just
exactly the same?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. I haven't played. I heard -- I think my caddie told me
there's one change he's seen at No. 9. Moved the tee back. But other than that -- or they
moved the bunker forward. Other than that, I don't think it's changed. I had never played
this course. And last year, I got in from the Peter Jacobson tournament, the Fred Meyer.
Played Tuesday night and then Wednesday. But it's kind of like Medinah, I think, in that
it's just long, hard and right in front of you. There's no tricks to it. You just go out
there, and it presents you with a good challenge. And as you look at the past winning
scores, it holds up pretty well. 
 
Q. Were you motivated at all last week at Sprint by all the Sergio/Tiger rivalry talk,
which has kind of cast you about as something of a forgotten man?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, I wasn't. No, that doesn't bother me in the least. 
 
Q. What is the biggest draw in this event for you? Is it winning last year; being the
quote, unquote defending champ? Or is it the purse, the international competition? What is
the big draw for you here?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Probably just the event itself and the course, the tournament. I mean, the
World Series was one of the biggest events of the year, and last year was the first time I
was eligible to play in it. Although it's under a different name, it's still -- different
eligibility requirements -- it's one of the best events, still. And I think that's the
biggest attraction.  
 
Q. If you look at the differences in the results you were getting in that stretch in
March and April and the results now, how fine a difference is it? Is it a technical thing?
Is it a matter of feel or confidence?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: It's probably maybe just a little bit of confidence and making two 18-,
20-foot putts a week. That's how small it is. I think that's the differences. 
 
Q. The purse here, it's probably more than doubled since last year.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't remember what it was. 
 
Q. I just wonder after the Ryder Cup money thing, where some people have said this
means -- this is the indirect reward for Ryder Cup and when you play next year as well,
how do you answer that one? Is this a reward for Ryder Cup?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. I don't know if that's the intent of the tournament. You'd
have to talk to Tim Finchem and the other heads of the TOURS and see if that was the
intention of the event. This was a preexisting event still. It was already here. And with
the new TV revenues and such, that the purse here would have gone up, regardless. Would it
have gotten to where it is? Probably not. I think it's pretty safe to say it wouldn't
have. But I think if it's reward, you'd have to ask them if that was the intent. 
 
Q. But as a player, you don't see it that way?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't answer that way because I don't know if that was the intent. 
 
Q. Between the time that Crenshaw finalized the Ryder Cup team with his wild-card picks
and now, have you gotten together with any of your soon-to-be teammates and discussed
anything about the Ryder Cup?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, I haven't. 
 
Q. It won't be a big issue until Monday?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Probably more so Monday is when it will start. 
 
Q. Who is going to win that little biannual match? Do you have a feel: U.S. or Europe?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: What, the Ryder Cup? That exhibition? (Laughter.) It's hard to say. I'm
obviously -- I think we will. I do. But I'm probably a little bit biased. I'm just anxious
to get there to kind of take in the atmosphere and to feel it and experience what
everybody has said about it and kind of get my own feel for it. Because it's -- I'm
looking forward to that. I'm very curious about it.  
 
Q. Was there a great deal of interest amongst players about the European wild cards --
(inaudible)?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't recall anybody approaching me and asking me if I knew. I happened
to walk into the locker room when they were showing highlights from the European event,
and then they put up the two picks. It was just by chance that I walked by and saw. That's
how I found out. 
 
Q. What's the most emotion you've ever shown on a golf course?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Good stuff or bad stuff? 
 
Q. Both.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. You know, I've tomahawked clubs into the ground like anybody
else. I did a little dance in Palm Springs this year. Those are probably the two extremes.
I don't recall grabbing a club off a hanger in disgust and absolutely destroying a patch
of turf. I've certainly taken a swipe at the ground. But beyond that, I don't recall
carrying on much more. 
 
Q. Of the 41 players in the field this week, 27 were born outside of the United States.
The United States has lost both the Ryder Cup and the Presidents Cup in the last calendar
year. As an American-born player, do you sense any urgency, perhaps, that maybe wasn't
there before, given the emergence of all the great international players, for the American
side?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: At this moment, my answer would be no. If at the end of the week in Boston
doesn't end up as I, as an American player, would like, then I would certainly give you a
yes. 
 
Q. Who are the guys that talked to -- that told you the Ryder Cup is something that
you've never experienced before?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Some players and some writers. 
 
Q. Older players that have been there a lot, like a Lanny or a Jack or Arnold?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, not that old. (Laughter.) Just a few other players, you know, that
have played a few of them, and a few writers. 
 
Q. Since you haven't been there before, does it come up a lot? Do they approach you a
lot about it, or is it just casual conversation?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Just casual. 
 
Q. Regarding the Cup, I wonder if you can address the different challenges that are
presented to a golfer when they are in a team format as opposed to week in when they are
just playing for themselves?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I would think the biggest thing you have to be conscious of is staying
upbeat. Not letting your poor play or poor shots or such kind of infect your teammates.
Just keep upbeat about what is going on and such, whether it's going your way or not. I
think that will be one of the most important things. 
 
Q. Same subject: You talked about "drastically different." There is a wry
smile on your face what you talk about the drastically different; that presumably means
good and bad.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I did not mean any bad. It's just a lot -- by saying that, I meant that
it's just -- as a participant and even as a spectator and as a reporter covering it, it's
just very much different than any other event. It has a tangible atmosphere, kind of like
Augusta has. There's something in the air. You can kind of feel it. That's kind of what I
meant. That's what I meant. 
 
Q. You said that you think the U.S. is going to win. What advantage do you think you
guys have over the Europeans?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: We're better on paper; right? 
 
Q. Some of the players with Ryder Cup experience, the Cup itself presents a special
challenge for rookies, and you're making your debut. You are the only rookie on the
American side. Do you see that to be a weakness? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: There again, it's hard for me to answer that. Personally, I would say no.
But there again, I haven't been there and experienced it; so, I don't know. I can't really
give you a good answer on that. You know, people who have been there and covered it, you
would have to talk to other players who have been there. I don't think you can ask
somebody who hasn't been there and played one whether that's a disadvantage. I can't
answer that. 
 
Q. How hungry do you think the U.S. team is?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I think a lot more so than everybody seems to believe. You know, I think
everybody is very, very excited about it, or very much looking forward to getting after it
there. 
 
Q. I would like to ask you about this week's track, meaning the South Course here at
Firestone. We could be getting rain through the remainder of the week. Is that something
you would prefer? Is that conducive to your game to throw darts at the greens, or would
you prefer a faster track out there?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't have preferences, simply because I can't control the weather, and
I have to play what's in front of me. If I wanted it to be hard and fast and it became
soft, then I might have a hard time playing in it. If I wanted it to be soft and it played
like the British Open, then I would have no chance that way, either. So I just look to
play. I think that's part of the responsibility and part of our job as professionals that
you have to adjust to different conditions. 
 
Q. Is it safe to say that the U.S. team might feel more pressure for the Ryder Cup than
the Europeans?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, that might be safe to say. Simply because they've lost a few -- and
I say "they," meaning we. We've lost a few and lost the Presidents Cup. We need
to have one cup at home. 
 
Q. Do you think the team is more united or disunited after the culminations of Medinah
that week, the whole week. Has that made you stronger or weaker, do you think, the team?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I would guess stronger. But we'll find out very soon. 
 
Q. Do you recall what you were doing the last -- did you watch the last Ryder Cup in
'97 or 95? Were you fishing or skiing?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I believe I did watch it. I don't remember where I was or what I was
doing. 
 
Q. What does it mean to you to win a Ryder Cup versus winning a tournament or a major?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I think we've covered that. We've been there. 
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT