SPRINT INTERNATIONAL
August 22, 1999
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL:  I had a nice day.  I played well, picked up some points.  But just in the end, not quite enough.  So not much you can do about it.


Q.  Is this the best you have played here?

DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, it most certainly is.


Q.  On TV they were speculating that it looked as if you had a little bit of a glitch in your putting stroke.  Did you feel comfortable putting?  Was there a problem?

DAVID DUVAL:  I actually felt pretty good.  That is -- surprised to hear that.  I hit a couple of bad putts, certainly; but all and all, I felt like I putted well.


Q.  What hurt worse, the bogey on 12 or the missed birdie on 13?

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, as it turns out, I don't think either, really.  I mean obviously not -- I think I lost about three points, maybe.  The putt I hit on 12, I probably didn't hit the greatest.  The putt I hit on 11, I hit good.  Actually, it hit something right in front of the hole, just kind of darted to the right, then caught the lip.  Certainly like to hit the putt on 12.  If I make one of those, I still come up short.


Q.  What happened on the approach shot on 16?

DAVID DUVAL:  Hit it real short.  It was gusty, wind must have knocked it down.


Q.  You seemed to be taking your time out there trying to judge what the wind was doing.  How difficult was the wind?

DAVID DUVAL:  Very difficult.  It seemed to change directions a lot.  And when it does that, if it's not blowing very hard, it is not a big deal.  But it was blowing pretty strong.  It was moving around like that.  Made it very, very hard.


Q.  Did you have a point total in mind today, as far as what you thought might win it?

DAVID DUVAL:  Not really.  I would liked to have gotten to 50.  That is what I thought-- was trying to get to.  But I didn't -- other than that, no.  I just didn't think about it.


Q.  How did you find out about the two guys playing behind you making double on 16?

DAVID DUVAL:  I believe it was put up on the 17th, or it came up on the 17th board after I finished the hole.


Q.  Going into 17, did you think you had to eagle to have a legitimate chance to win?

DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, pretty much.  I didn't expect -- I don't think any of us would have expected the two of them to make 5s on the 16th.  I thought I needed to make a 3 most certainly.


Q.  How much satisfaction do you take out of the way you  played today and finishing second?

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, a good deal.  I played very well this week.  Very consistent.  The second round, I made a couple more putts than I did the other three.  But all my point totals were very similar, so played very well from Thursday through today --


Q.  Could you give us the distances and clubs on your birds and bogeys?

DAVID DUVAL:  The first hole, hit a 5-iron into the green-side bunker and knocked it out to about five feet.  3rd hole, hit sand wedge to about a foot.  8th hole, my ball ended up short of the green about 30 yards.  I think it hit a tree over there on the right; kicked down there.  Then I hit it up there to about seven feet probably.  9th hole, 3-putted from a long ways.  The left fringe kind of -- 60 feet.  I had to go over that big as well.  11th hole, I 3-putted from about 20 feet behind the hole.  14, I hit a 6-iron into the green-side bunker; knocked it out to about five feet.  17, I knocked a 6-iron on the green about 22 feet or so behind the hole; 2-putted.


Q.  Your club selection on 16, when you hit off the tee there, was it -- was that one of those cases where you came up short because of the wind maybe?

DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, I probably caught a gust.  I actually wasn't displeased with where the ball ended up.  There is only -- you could probably miss it right, and you have a good chance of up-and-down.  You can't miss it left.  Coming up short there, I didn't have a real hard chip, and it is a makeable shot.  I wasn't terribly upset.  I had it right on line.  I wish it wouldn't have caught a gust, but it did.


Q.  There was a lot made about you being paired up with Sergio Garcia today.  Was playing with him, was there any distraction with the crowds the size that they were?

DAVID DUVAL:  No, not at all.  I have played around a lot of big crowds, so I think you get used to it.


Q.  Give you some momentum for next week?  Talk about that a little bit.

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I guess it does in a sense.  It is nice to play well, regardless of -- certainly, you'd prefer as a player to play real well in the majors.  But I mean, regardless, I just enjoyed playing real well.  Finishing second here is just great.  Any time you finish second in a golf tournament, I have said it all along, I am not sure everybody believes me, it is wonderful playing.  I played real well this week.  But certainly it helps.  I did okay last week.  I struggled a little bit, but I did okay.  And then going to next week where, although, I guess, I am not technically defending champion, I won on that course last year, so I know I can play it.  I look forward to getting there. I did a lot of good things this week.  Hopefully just kind of all comes together a little bit better next week.


Q.  You said you were trying to get to 50.  It sounded like  that was a realistic number for people, the leaders to shoot at. Were you surprised that the winning total ended up so low, or was that because of the wind, or --

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, it was tough out there.  The pins were a little tighter in some spots, and the greens were a little harder.  The wind blew more than it has the last couple of days. And that combination doesn't lend itself to making 15 points, like some people did in the first few rounds.  So I wasn't real surprised.  I kind of knew that if you can make some birdies, you can make up some ground  because people weren't going to run away in those type conditions.


Q.  Any chance that you may have had a slightly more determination this week just because of last week just in terms of getting it behind you; maybe wanting to get back to a nice groove?

DAVID DUVAL:  No, what do you mean about -- in what instance are you referring to last week?


Q.  I guess it was a difficult week media-wise, No. 1.  And I know you have downplayed this, but certainly everybody was talking about Sergio and Tiger and you are 1 or 2 in the world and weren't in the equation suddenly.  Just seemed like perhaps it would be human to say:  I'd like to show people I am still around?

DAVID DUVAL:  I am sorry, I just don't derive satisfaction from trying to satisfy other peoples' expectations. I am sorry.  I can't help you there, I can't get excited about it.  I am not out to prove anything to you or to anybody else.  I am out to prove it to me.  What happened last week was, as I said, it was unbelievable some of the stuff that was going on and Tiger to back up and Sergio to be charging, I mean, rightfully so, I wasn't a factor last week, so that is nobody's fault but my own, but I am not out to prove anything.  I don't feel like I need to get my name back in your columns.  That is not what I am looking to do. I think it is a by-product of good golf.  That is what I am striving for.


Q.  Had you played with Sergio before?

DAVID DUVAL:  No.  I hadn't even played a practice round so today was the first day.


Q.  Can you talk a little bit about his game and how he played today?

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, he seemed to struggle a little bit today.  I don't want to -- I am under the impression that he has a bit of an injury from air hockey, so I really enjoyed it actually.  I went over to Peter and told him on one hole I just said, he is just a really good kid.  He is a good guy.  He really  -- you could really see that he respects the game a lot.  He lost a point or two on the front and I believe he then lost a point on the 12th hole as well and, you know, he wasn't -- he was not ranting and raving upset.  He really handles himself well.  He conducted himself far beyond his 19 years, I think he happens himself that way.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT