SPRINT INTERNATIONAL
August 21, 1999
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I am very pleased with how I played today. A bit of a slow start.  I hit some good shots, but didn't make the putts.  And then I -- although I made a lot of birdies in the last 11 holes, I made -- missed some that I thought I could have made too.  So it was a good day. 
 

Q.  Could you go through your card real quick.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Sure.  I hit it in the front bunker on 3, I hit it out to about six feet, missed it.  No. 8 I knocked a 3-iron on the green and 2-putted.  I was about maybe 30 feet.  The 10th hole, hit sand wedge to about 20 feet, maybe -- 
 

Q.  How far did you have on your tee shot?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Where? 
 

Q.  Sand wedge, how far was your sand wedge?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Hit 3-wood off the tee, and had about 112 yards left.  Then 13, I hit a sand wedge again to about two feet.  15, hit sand wedge again to about six feet.  17, I hit a 6-iron left of the green; chipped up to about two feet.  18, I hit a sand wedge to about three feet. 
 

Q.  Nice sand wedge.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Thank you. 
 

Q.  All we have heard the last week, David, is Sergio and Tiger; Tiger and Sergio.  Is there a little part of you that wants to sort of remind people that --
 
DAVID DUVAL:  No. 
 

Q.  -- that I am still here?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  No.  No. 
 

Q.  What do you think that all does for the game of golf?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Oh, I think it is good stuff.  I do.  I think it is great that everybody is looking for a rival for Tiger.  If I am not included in that, that is fine.  I won't lose any sleep. 
 

Q.  Obviously, you wanted -- you played really well beginning of the season.  You talked about summer doldrums, I think it was yesterday.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  August doldrums. 
 

Q.  But you have a tendency to play well late in the season --
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah.  What happens is, I prefer playing early and late.  The hot weather puts me in a bad mood, so I don't play well.  I don't practice in the summer.  It is too hot.  That is why, some of the reasons I was baffled why I never had played well here last three or four years.  Although it is hot, it is not  humid and you are not sweating.  As the year goes on, I like the fall and I enjoy the crisp nights.  Probably just really get in a better mood and get more excited about playing.  I just don't particularly enjoy going out there and coming off a golf course and being soaked.  It is easy to get kind of through the U.S. Open.  And then it is really gets pretty hot everywhere.  It starts to cool down here, so I have thought about it.  I think last year I won at the World Series.  That is in August.  But it wasn't real, real hot that week.  Other than that, I was trying to think of Top-10s I have even had in the summer.  I think I finished 6th at Hartford last year or something.  At the same time, I don't play as much either, so I am probably not in as good of a rhythm as I would be at the early season and late season. 
 

Q.  Are you attacking the golf course any different today and yesterday than -- or attacking it mentally any different than you were in years past or even in the first round?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  No, I don't think so.  We just went through the card and as you can hear, you know, the birdies I have made have been off my sand wedges.  I mean, again, I birdied No. 8 and 17.  Didn't birdie 1 and 14 again.  So I guess maybe I am just -- I just hit my sand wedges better this year than I have in the past.  I don't feel like I am approaching it any differently than I have.  Certainly would like to birdie 1 though again. 
 

Q.  Looks like you will be paired with Sergio Garcia tomorrow.  Is that a matchup you look forward to?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  How do you mean? 
 

Q.  As far as you two playing with each other and, you know, that there will be a big gallery with you two probably.  Is that something that you would really look forward to?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't really understand what you are asking me.  I don't -- it is just how it is. 
 

Q.  Do you really care who you play with?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Right, I don't care, is -- 
 

Q.  Unless it is us?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, I would -- 
 

Q.  In the hot months, are you in Florida, or are you in Idaho when you are not playing?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I am in Florida a little bit, but I will be more up in Idaho in the future summers. 
 

Q.  What is the elevation there compared to here?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I think -- what is the elevation here? About 5600. 
 

Q.  At the course it is about 6300.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  It is pretty similar then.  It is about the same.  It is 6000, maybe a little more. 
 

Q.  You don't play golf there?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  No, I do. 
 

Q.  You do?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Oh, yeah.  I love playing golf. 
 

Q.  It is a nice time?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, it is 80, 85 degrees, and there is no  humidity, and it is beautiful out.  It is fun being out there again.  So I do, I tend to get up early.  We usually leave the house, go fishing about 6:30 or so, and maybe come back and play golf in the afternoon.  Stuff like that. 
 

Q.  You said you don't care who you play with, it doesn't matter.  Do you talk much to the people you are playing with, to the other golfers?  On a final day like tomorrow, do you tend to just keep to yourself or just passing comments?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't really know if I talk a whole lot to them.  I think so.  You could ask David when he comes in here. I don't -- you know, you need to ask the people I play with.  I think I talk a fair amount to them. 
 

Q.  What about on Sundays?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  It is no different.  It would be no different. 
 

Q.  When you go up in your place in Idaho, when you do play golf, does it help you at all just knowing your distances, for example?  Does that help you?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  How, here? 
 

Q.  Yeah, just getting used to playing in altitude.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't think so.  I think, if anything, it probably hurts you, because you get out there and it is not a tournament, so you are messing around.  You are just trying to see how far you can hit it. 
 

Q.  Busting it?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, trying to hit it on 430-yard holes. So it probably doesn't do you any good. 
 

Q.  Golf Magazine came out with their Top-100 courses.  That is a very subjective thing; people who voted.  Castle Pines dropped out on that list.  I wonder where you fit Castle Pines in your top courses?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Like the regular Tour events we play? 
 

Q.  Yes.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  It would probably be somewhere from, for me, No. 8 to 12, 13.  Somewhere in there.  Maybe 7 to 12. 
 

Q.  What would be your favorite one or two or three?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I think the course I most enjoy is Augusta under the tournament conditions.  It is a lot different than if you went like in February or something.  Then I enjoy Pebble Beach very much.  I like playing in Phoenix.  It is hard for me to tell you exactly the course, because I go to places where it is kind of an all-encompassing, where it is a good course.  The people are good, the fans are great.  You know, it is kind of the whole package.  As far as that goes, this would be probably No. 1. (laughs).  Tommy, inside the locker room -- they are really something else.  I am trying to think.  Maybe actually it is No. 4 to 7.  I can't really name a whole lot of -- 
 

Q.  We have moved up fast in a short span.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Let me have another drink of this Coke and it will be one. 
 

Q.  Was it a Stableford movement -- 
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah.  The eagle I don't make.  It is pretty high. 
 

Q.  Your back nine today proved the way this tournament can work.  Is that something that somebody has to do tomorrow is go, boom, 10 points in nine holes?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  You know, I would personally prefer to do 5 and 5.  It is less stressful.  You just have to kind of talk to yourself a little bit like I did.  I mean, through seven holes, I am minus a point for the day.  And realize that, you know, you can make up a little bit of ground if you just make a few birdies. And it didn't seem like people were running away today, so I wasn't -- I didn't ever really panic.  But I had the chances, a few good chances on the front. Missed a short putt on 1 and 2.  That -- I would have been on the positives then, so... But I didn't really worry about it.  I just was hoping to keep David Toms by the end of the day within shouting distance at least. 
 

Q.  You know much about him?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  As far as just background and -- 
 

Q.  No, I mean --
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Seems like we have played a fair amount in the last few months.  I enjoy it very much.  He and his caddie are great guys.  Ask him to tell you about the story with his driver. He was going to change drivers at Hartford.  I think I expedited that process accidentally.  He can finish the story, though. 
 

Q.  Real quick, when leading a tournament going into Sunday, major, how do -- how do you handle the nerve situation, if there are any?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Did you say major? 
 

Q.  Yes.  A major tournament, meaning a major tournament --
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I don't -- I think you recognize it for what it is.  And it is a good thing, because you should be nervous a little bit.  And if you are not, you are not as close to the lead as you'd like.  But I think, for me, I just consciously realize that whether I am ahead or behind, it is still the same game.  It doesn't matter.  I still have to hit the same shots, and you still have to hole putts.  I think, like, the Players Championship, I was pretty nervous, because, I mean, that is a big event and I grew up there. I kind of told myself starting on the first hole, every hole is going to seem like 10 or 12, 3-, 4-, 5-footers.  If you want to win you are going to have to make them all.  I think that is a key part of winning is making those 4-, 5-foot putts. 
 

Q.  Could I ask a Ryder Cup question?  What sort of boost do you see Garcia's emergence gives Europe, not only in terms of the way he plays, but the way that the American fans have taken to him; whereas, they very obviously don't take to the likes of Monte and --
 
DAVID DUVAL:  What gives you that impression? (Laughter).  I would -- my guess would be that his involvement and his participation in the Ryder Cup would maybe make it seem a bit less hostile, because there is kind of a big star that everybody  involved with the game likes, whether you are a European or you are an American or something else.  Maybe get rid of real mentality of us against them.  I think we all appreciate Sergio for the talent that he is and what he is doing and what is going on and the excitement he brings.  He certainly stands alone in that, I think.  And that is a good thing for this game. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT