SPRINT INTERNATIONAL
August 20, 1999
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Thank you. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I am just -- I am real excited to play well. I had a chance to win here in
1995, my rookie year. I think Lee Janzen won. I believe I missed the two-day cut every
year since, which, to me, doesn't make any sense. I don't have an explanation for it,
because it doesn't seem like that should be -- seems like it should fit me well here. I
came out early yesterday. I teed off about 12, I think. I hit balls from 10 until I teed
off, working on some stuff. It has paid for --I am real happy about what I have done the
last couple of days. 
 
Q. When is the last time you made 8 birdies in a round?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I made 12 or 13 recently. 
 
Q. Since then?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. I don't keep track of that. I really don't. I don't know. I
am trying think of some scores, but I can't. 
 
Q. How about nine birdies in a day?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I have played 11 and an eagle, so.... 
 
Q. Could you give us your birdies and bogies?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: 15, I hit a 3-wood and sand wedge to about ten feet. 17, I hit a 7-iron
onto the green to about twelve feet. Two-putt. No. 1, I chipped to about four feet from
about 30 yards short of the green. No. 2, I hit a sand wedge; made about a 30-foot putt,
maybe 35 feet. No. 3, hit sand wedge to about six feet. No. 5, hit pitching wedge to about
five feet. No. 8, I knocked it on with a 5-iron. 2-putted. No. 9, I hit pitching wedge to
about 20 feet. 
 
Q. The last three years, were the tournaments coming at times when you were struggling,
or was it --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. I like to think it was the August doldrums, like the old
saying goes. I just -- I am not -- I don't play a ton in the summer. I always like coming
here because they don't have the humidity. But maybe it is just from having not played a
whole lot. I don't know. I just didn't play good. I don't play good all the time. 
 
Q. What was that putt Lee was referring to that you had to make this morning?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yesterday they gave us the option of playing the last hole on 18. We chose
to play it, and I hit a drive out there in the fairway. We all drove out, then all hit on
the green. I hit it about, I don't know. How tall are the flags here? 8, hit it eight feet
and three inches, because we actually measured it in case the coins and stuff were moved.
I chose -- they actually, the two guys I was playing with, chose not to putt. I was going
to. And as I started -- just started getting dark quick. I chose not to putt. Then came
out this morning, restart. Had an 8-foot 3-inch putt for birdie. I made it. That was nice. 
 
Q. How many 8 feet, half inch putts did you hit out on the practice green?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Didn't hit a single one. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't prescribe to that, you are going to it there, and you are going to
make them all. You are bound to miss one. So hit a few putts. I didn't even hit any putts
that broke the same. Kind of a split in the right lip. I hit some left-to-right,
right-to-left, but I didn't hit that one. 
 
Q. Had you ever had your coins moved?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't think so. They actually -- I don't know if I still have the tee.
Let me look. I think I threw it away. They actually drove over all our coins and tees, the
mowers were -- I don't have it. It was chopped in half. They were pressed way into the
green. Had to dig it out with my ball mark, repair tool, the tees. 
 
Q. You knew where it was?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah. 
 
Q. Because of the flag?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I had my coin down, and I put two tees behind it, but they were just
pressed all the way down. They didn't try to, you know, move and replace it. They just
went right over it. 
 
Q. Vijay Singh was saying earlier this week, given the attention with Tiger and Sergio
last week, that you might actually enjoy the situation more this week, given that you
didn't have quite as much attention. Is that true or not?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't -- I didn't enjoy it, last week's attention. But I think on a
whole, I do like it, because what it tells me is I'm playing well. It is nice -- don't get
me wrong -- to kind of have a week off. But no, I don't want anybody to stop talking to
me, because that means I am not playing well. 
 
Q. Plus you'd miss us?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Absolutely. I might not miss a few people in some other places, but -- 
 
Q. I've been watching your play, your drives. I have watched you hit them. Some of them
have even gone, I have measured them off 400 yards. How much farther do you think the ball
carries with your tee shot here?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: It is really hard to measure. But on some holes, even you can hit --
choose to hit 3-woods, like some of the uphill holes, and probably hit it further than
drivers. Because the higher you can get it in the air, the more it is going to go. So --
but, I mean, certainly counting on at least 10% on a driver, maybe a little bit more. I
think as the clubs get longer, you are going to hit them even that much further. 
 
Q. How long was your drive on 9?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Oh, I don't know. 
 
Q. Did you have a hit pitching wedge?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, a little one. Had 135 yards. It was a long drive, little into the
wind. That was my better ones. 
 
Q. 323?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Uphill -- 
 
Q. 17, how long was that?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No. 17, I don't know. I hit -- I had 175 yards to the hole. 
 
Q. 7-iron?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah. 
 
Q. Are the greens as good as you have seen them here?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, I don't -- I recall them, my first year, being really good. I think
last year was probably the worst I have seen. But this year, it's certainly as good, if
not the best, that I have seen it everywhere. As I told Mr. Vickers, I said it is nice. It
is about three inches rough. I guess it is nice that you can actually try and play out of
it, not be in a long, long rough on every hole. 
 
Q. Going back to your first year, close to the lead on Sunday, you came up on 15. You
hit it in the water?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, the 15th hole, hit sand wedge into the water. 
 
Q. You finished fifth?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Somewhere in there. 
 
Q. Were you tied for the lead, something at that point?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't recall. I was right around it, I believe. I think I was actually a
little bit behind a player, two or three. But I was close. 
 
Q. The two hours you spent on the range yesterday prior to playing, was that a
technical thing or a feel thing that you figured out, straightened out?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I would say feel, just more so trying to get comfortable. I wasn't --
haven't been very comfortable standing over the golf ball lately, even into last week in
Hartford and British. I just haven't felt real well standing over it. It feels like I am
tense, and that is because, probably it was a few positions where -- were a little off,
and I tried to just go out and get comfortable really. I guess there is some technical
stuff, some mechanics involved, because I was jockeying the ball a little further back and
trying to level out my shoulders a little bit. It may be more feel when do I that stuff. 
 
Q. Run into certain players who, even before their win here, other guys on the Tour
tell them that you should do well there, I expect to do well there, because the course and
format fit them. Last week at PGA, just here and now, you are saying you don't understand
why you haven't done better here. Without saying, yeah, you expect to win this week, do
you come here thinking this is a tournament I ought to win sometime, because --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, I think that is fair to say. The thing, really- I think the thing
that has killed me and -- it hadn't killed me this week, but I have -- certainly haven't
bettered my causes. I have never played the par 5s real well. I seem to make a couple of
pars and couple of birdies. I never -- I don't know if I have even made an eagle since I
have played in this tournament, and you need to make one of those if you are going to win.
I think today -- actually, today it was funny. I made the turn; I birdied the first hole.
I can't recall the last time I birdied the first hole. That was almost like I'd told Mitch
walking off, I said: Those are like bonus points to me. So I have made -- I have made five
birdies on the par 5s. 
 
Q. You are due?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I'd like to think so. But it just seems like I struggled to get it
in the fairway on 14, and No. 1 is always -- I have never done that well on that hole. 8
and 17 I have always played okay; but those other two, I have just never capitalized on. 
 
Q. Was the controversy last week, was that distracting at all to your game?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't think so. When we -- there is one place when we, as the players,
can go that it doesn't matter what is going on, and that is inside the ropes that you can
forget about everything. So I don't -- last week, the reason I didn't do better was
because I don't think I -- I don't want to say I putted poorly, because I feel like I
putted okay. I didn't make putts because my speed was off. I looked in the stats. I think
I was -- I hit, like, I missed 18 greens, I think, all week. I hit a lot of fairways. So
basically I just didn't hole putts. That was because of my speed was wrong. Some of them,
even this week I still have struggled a little bit with. I have knocked way by or left
them short. When we get inside the ropes, at least I can forget about it. 
 
Q. This isn't a sneaky way to ask about the Ryder Cup, but is there -- do you get the
sense that maybe even the fans and even us have kind of said: Okay, everybody said their
piece, and leave it alone for a while?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't think that -- everybody is entitled to their opinions. However, I
think finally everybody has come around and realized that what everybody is looking to
achieve, you know. And I think that everybody has realized that the players aren't looking
to get paid to play in it. They are simply talking about allocating monies towards
charities of their choices, which it is not unreasonable, I don't think. It is kind of
funny what everything that happened. It is not like we are -- somebody was a drunk driver
or got thrown in jail for cocaine. I mean, arguing over money to give to charity. And it
is a big story. So I think everybody is kind of on the same page now, and it was something
that was easy to grasp and run with. I understand it. But I think, like you said,
everybody has got their piece, and everybody realizes that all the players who are on the
team are more excited about playing and really realize they have a hard job ahead of them,
because we really need to win. 
 
Q. Do you get a kick out of the fact that people are talking about a new rivalry this
week when you have been one or two in the world rankings for 12 months?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, I guess -- I don't know if I want to say I get a kick out of it, but
it is great. I mean, I think I think like everybody. What endeared Sergio was what he did
on 16 to the whole golfing world. You know, what they are saying is probably right, most
people would have pitched it out. I don't know what I would have done. But after seeing
the shot, it looked like it actually wasn't, the roots weren't as much in play as it
looked like it could have been. But it was still, I mean, that has got to go down as one
of the best shots certainly this year, if not in a long, long time. For him to come up
like that, and for them to get so close, to see Tiger fall back a little bit, I think was
good stuff. Whether I am knocked out of that rivalry, you know, whatever. That is fine. 
 
Q. Did you ever run after a ball that you hit?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I ran in yesterday on 9 (laughter). 
 
Q. Jesse Peetz and his parents are on their way to Nebraska. I am sure you want to keep
that a lot private. Can you talk about what you did for him the other day?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know if it is so much what I did for him or might be what he did
for me. I was approached about granting him making a wish. And the initial idea was the
Ryder Cup, and I said I didn't think that was a good idea, just strictly because I
wouldn't have been able to hang out with him and talk with him and mess around. So they
said they lived in Nebraska. I said, seems like it would make sense, why don't you try to
get it lined up for next week. I said it is not very far from Colorado. So they had all
worked it out, and we had a good time. He is a good kid. It is great to look and listen to
him talk and hear his kind of -- just see things through his eyes. I think they had a good
time, from what I can gather. And they got some good news yesterday, I believe, at the
hospital. So, you know, hopefully things will turnaround. 
 
Q. When you say that you maybe got more out of it than he did, what do you mean by
that?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I mean, you know, you just really -- it is kind of funny. Towards
the end of last week, I just started laughing about what was going on and happening, and
was pretty sure it really wasn't that important. But I was -- my guess that it might not
have been terribly important was certainly confirmed this week again. I mean, we make much
to do about nothing at times, right? And, you know, I have been through it. I have seen
it, and I know what the feelings are like. And, you know, it is just -- who really gives a
damn if I finished 10th last week and lost and got cut up. I mean does it really matter?
No. You know, at times I think all of us buy into the hype and think what we do is
important, when it is not. It just -- just did me a world of good as well. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Thanks. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT