BUICK CLASSIC
June 23, 1999
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Nice touch in a tent. Sharpens it up, the chandeliers. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Nothing different than I expected. It is always -- I haven't played here
every year that I have been on Tour but I have played most of the time and it is always
some rough. Although it doesn't seem as much as there has been in the past. And everything
else about the golf course is always good. It is always in good shape and it is the same
thing, razor hard and fast already. Going to get the same type scores I always do. 
 
Q. Obligatory hand question. I see you are down to one bandage.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I probably could have stood to put one on my thumb, put this one late in
the round. But they are all right. 
 
Q. Bother you over the weekend? I know you don't want to make excuses?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Not at all. 
 
Q. Could you compare near-miss at this Open to your Masters? I mean, is there any
comparison at all in terms of the disappointment?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know how you compare them. It was a lot closer than The Masters
than it was at the end of the Open. I was close there for a while, but you know, I can't
explain why I shot 75 on Sunday. Saturday it was because I had hit some bad shots, that is
what cost me. Sunday I didn't really hit them as poorly as some of the shots I did on
Saturday and I shot 75. That is what I don't know why. That is Pinehurst. 
 
Q. Did you leave Pinehurst with the same feeling that you left The Masters with or was
it totally different?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Similar feeling, but not quite as bad and as much -- left a little more
bewildered by what had happened. I didn't -- there wasn't a straight explanation as to why
like I said, I shot 75, I don't know. I felt like I played okay, but only way I could say
it was -- I told -- I told several writers since the last couple of days that they have
asked I said, if you played really well at Pinehurst you could shoot even par, 1-, 2-,
maybe 3-under par. If you played good, you shoot anywhere from 2- to 6-over if you played
good. If you weren't quite at your sharpest and if you didn't play good you are going to
shoot high 70s into the 80s. That is the only way I could explain why I shot 75 because I
did play okay. I really did. 
 
Q. The thing that happened at 9, kind of took it out of you -- (inaudible)
 
 DAVID DUVAL: That put a real dent in the efforts, yeah. That was -- I shouldn't have
hit it there. At the same time you don't usually expect it to have been buried under the
lip. It wasn't right under it, but it was a funny stance into it and it was down pretty
good. I had no shot. I mean, I didn't really expect to get the first one out. And I still
felt like I could do it after I was 4-over for the tournament getting posted, even I felt
like I would be okay, but come 13 is when I knew I wasn't going to win, bogeyed 13. I
think I went five or six for the event. I think I went to 6 and I was out of holes. I had
five to play and best I could post was 1-over and I didn't think that would be enough. 
 
Q. Vijay said that the shots he played (inaudible)
 
 DAVID DUVAL: What did you say? 
 
Q. Vijay said that he hit some good shots. The shots didn't come off -- how do you feel
about it? Was it fair?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yes. I think so. But it depends on what you want to call a good shot. A
good shot at Pinehurst was knocking it onto the green. It wasn't knocking it three feet.
So it was -- if you hit the ball like you should at the proper spot you could knock it on
the green. If you didn't do that, you'd miss. I don't have a problem with that. I think
that is fair. 
 
Q. Do you think the higher scores in the Open will have any effect on yourself and
other golfers mentally as far as this course is weekend?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No. 
 Last week got nothing to do with this week. You don't typically see 15-, 16-, 18-under
here anyway, so..... 
 
Q. A weekend like that where you put yourself in position to maybe win the Open, is it
a weekend that stays with you a while? Do you put it right behind you? How do you deal
with it? What do you try and get out of it?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know -- I am beyond it already. It is not like that putt Payne
made on the last hole kept me out of the playoff. Might take Phil a little while to get
over it, kind of like what happened with me at Augusta a few years ago, but what you take
out of it -- you know, I think you will learn as a player, what you have taken out of it
when you have more opportunities -- I know it, is kind of a vague answer, but when you are
presented with some similar situations you might have a little different thought
processes. But at the same time I have played -- last year at Olympic although I wasn't
quite on, I think I finished about the same spot I finished at Pinehurst. I left there
thinking this is a good type of tournament for me and Pinehurst reaffirmed that for me. 
 
Q. The Open notwithstanding -- can you just comment on your play so far this year? Four
wins, is this the kind of start you were looking for this year expecting?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I hope I have it every year. (laughs) I don't know what -- you know -- my
expectations, as I have said in the past, don't necessarily involve winning golf
tournaments. I think believe I can and if I play well enough, I think I will. But I expect
of myself to be prepared and to be ready to play when I tee it up and to play well. I
can't control anything beyond that. So those are kind of my expectations. The start I had
was, you know, if it wasn't a perfect start, it was awfully close. 
 
Q. Were you at say stadium yesterday?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I was. 
 
Q. Did you take batting practice?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I did. 
 
Q. How did it go?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: It went okay. We had a lot of fun. 
 
Q. Hit any home runs?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: You know, just a few, but I stopped counting after seven, so....
(laughter) no, I don't think -- figured if I hit one right down that left field line, I
might be able to hit one out of there. But I smacked a couple pretty good, I thought, and
they were more towards left center and they -- I two-hopped one into the fence but most of
them they weren't flying out of the grass. You see some of the real people get up there
and hit these line drives that are flying over the seats. It was real -- a lot of fun and
it was neat to hit it because it is kind of like a golf shot; when you hit it and you hit
it property you knew you had hit it on the sweet spot. When you didn't, you know, we were
-- I was talking with Bob Tway. Everybody has a few aches and pains from it. Wasn't
something we could pass up. 
 
Q. Talk to any of the players?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Oh, yeah, most all of them. 
 
Q. Were they talking to you giving you some advice?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Not really. Not everybody was out yet. We did it before all the players
started to come out and do it. There was maybe ten of them out and Skipper was out and he
was a lot of fun. He was really into it. A lot -- everybody was into it. It just made it
more fun for all of us. 
 
Q. I saw you out there David. Do you enjoy that mutual admiration? I saw a lot of the
Marlins coming up and asking for your autograph, you were talking with Piazza. I am sure
you were talking golf and baseball; do you enjoy that?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I do very much, actually. I think what you said is right that it is a
mutual admiration. They were asking a lot about the Open and I was telling them I said it
is like trying to stop a 6-iron right there on the pitcher's mound, I said that is what we
were doing last week. There was a lot of questions about that. We signed a lot of
autographs. I mean, I wish I could have, but I would have gotten a lot, but I would have
needed a duffle bag, you know, for all the baseballs to carry out of there. But I didn't
have one. So I refrained. 
 
Q. Were there other players, other golfers?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Bob Tway, Mark Colbert, Doug Martin. The four of us hit. 
 
Q. Anybody come close to knocking one out?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Apparently Doug got a ground-rule double. I didn't see that one, but other
people did. I am not questioning it. Yeah, I didn't see that hit. So I think that was the
best one. 
 
Q. How was Hubby?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Hub was, you know, he was pulling them down that right field. He comes in
southpaw and, you know, Mickey (phonetic) was out there and he was having a good time. 
 
Q. What is the furthest you got? Did you play high school, baseball?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, I quit after like the little league senior league. They had a little
league to 12 and senior league like 13, 14. I played little bit as 13-year-old but I
didn't play as a 14-year-old. 
 
Q. What position?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Third base. 
 
Q. Two years ago this time you were sort of hoping to get on Ryder Cup team and this
time you got it locked in pretty much. Just wanted to know after you didn't make it last
time, how much of a pull was that and how much are you looking --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: You are asking me a tough question. It was not one of my foremost goals. I
say that maybe because seemingly even after last year I was going to be -- I had enough
points, you know, so it wasn't as an afterthought this year. I don't know if I actually,
if you look back, I don't know how many I had, if I actually would have had enough but I
haven't even thought about it this year. Yes, I am looking forward to it and experiencing
it, but. You talk with the people involved, the players, and it is a tough week. It is
like the U.S. Open. I mean, there is a lot of pressure. There is little sleep because all
the functions and different things and so there is some stuff that I am not particularly
looking forward to as well with it. We can talk for a long time obviously about the Ryder
Cup and what we all think about it, so... 
 
Q. Are you at all thinking at all how you will react through the whole scene?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't really anticipate it being a big problem. I just don't -- I don't
think I am going to be really nerve-wracked. I don't think I will be like that. I think
because I view it a little differently is why. 
 
Q. Did The Presidents Cup make you feel comfortable for the Ryder Cup coming up?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: They very probably will have helped, yes, just being involved with the
teams and being a part of the one-on-one type competition. I am sure it will be
beneficial. 
 
Q. How difficult is it to play anywhere this week after like a meat grinder like last
week?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, it can be very hard and I actually -- I wanted to come and play here
because I do like it. But I didn't really expect to be as eager to play as I am. I thought
I would be a little more worn out. I seemed to have gotten past that pretty quick. You
almost -- after a week like that, you almost face a bit of burnout from it because it is
such a grind but I don't have any of that. I am a lot more ready than I thought I would
have been. 
 
Q. A little different question, there is a guy from the Bronx that they are flying out
to try and hole a 35-footer for a million dollars. Any advice to someone facing that kind
of --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No. 
 
Q. Don't be short?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, I mean, the obvious, but other than that what are you -- I mean -- I
don't know. I think I made one 35-footer last week, you just never make them anyway, so I
like when they shoot them from half court at basketball game, oh, we are really going out
on a limb. (laughs) 
 
Q. Just back to the Ryder Cup. When you say you view it a little bit differently, can
you explain that? Can you be a little more specific as to how you do view it; how it might
be different than others?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I am not going to go fully into it, no. We don't have time for that. 
 
Q. What is the basis --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I view it more as an exhibition. I think that was the intended nature when
it was started and I think it has gotten a little bigger and a little more influenced by
other things than golf. 
 
Q. How much pressure do you think there is on the American side to win it back, though?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: None. I don't think there is any. 
 
Q. Fans can come out with some pretty strange comments. Have you in your golfing
travels, what is the strangest or wildest thing you have heard a fan come out with?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: You hear a lot of stuff obviously. The best one I remember this year was
some lady in Houston asked me while we were playing -- this was the tournament -- I am
walking by, so I am in the ropes coming off the tee, was yelling at me to sign her
autograph and I didn't and she yells it loud enough to make sure I can hear it,
"Doesn't matter, he has put on a lot of weight anyways." I say, damn, I didn't
know I had. Wearing the same clothes I was a while ago. So.... 
 
Q. Thought you lost 30.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Hey, you know. (laughs) 
 
Q. With two majors decided already, how much are you looking forward to the British
Open, sort of going into the British Open that much hungrier because you haven't won a
major this year or what?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No more hungrier than I was at Augusta or at the U.S. Open. I am looking
forward to it. I think Carnousti is a type of course that can have an effect on Pinehurst
did where it seems like a lot of the top players are going to be at the top late in the
event because it is going to demand obviously very, very good play. I think I said last
week, earlier last week or earlier this week, that if the weather conditions are like they
can be, you know, it might make Pinehurst look easy, you know, because those fairways are
going to be -- they tend to be narrower than Pinehurst's were. You got this grass that is
seven feet tall everywhere and wind and rain and, you know, it could really be very, very
difficult. If it is blowing 30 everyday, you can see an 8, 10-over type score, I think. 
 
Q. Have you played there before?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I played the 95 Scottish there and I seem to remember it was pretty
tranquil and Wayne really won I think at 6-under or something. 
 
Q. Did you play the next year you were lucky?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No. 
 
Q. What was the score? David, you view that Ryder Cup a lot differently from Payne
Stewart. What do you think of his reaction, I mean, I know he is very gung ho, but he says
anyone who is not really excited about it, he will shake them by the throat if he has to
get them fired up?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Better not put his hands around my throat. (laughs). Don't get what I am
saying -- don't take it the wrong way. I am not saying I am not going to have fun and I am
not going to be out there ready to play and win. I am like any competitor, but I don't see
it as the end-all, be-all thing in golf, that a lot of other people seem to view it as. I
am not going to be out there playing, you know, half-assed -- excuse me -- but, you know,
not trying. But I am going -- I will be ready to go, don't get me wrong. But I am not
going to be sleeping -- I am not going to be bedridden for a month if we get beat. It is
not going to destroy me or something. I have every intention of giving my best. I think
that is part of the responsibilities of being on the team, is to be ready to play; be
prepared and then try your hardest. So please don't take what I say the wrong way. But I
just don't think it is this, you know, I have heard some European players remark state
that it is the biggest event in golf to them. I just don't -- I just don't see that it
way. If I had to choose between a US Open and a Ryder Cup, I mean there is not much of a
choice for me. 
 
Q. Considering what you said about how the U.S. Open is sort of a burning out
experience, do you think there are other players who feel the way you do; this is sort of
a chance to catch your breath a little bit, relax more, more so than last week?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I think you will have that maybe mentality for a couple of days, you know,
through today, maybe even tomorrow, it might creep into tomorrow. As it starts getting
closer to the end, it is going to -- everybody there will be ready. It is going to. There
is a lot on the line again. They are not just going to be happy-go-lucky out there and
just messing around. 
 
Q. You won the week after the TPC which was also kind of a grueling type experience.
How fast did it take you to get back into a the swing --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, more so -- obviously not -- I was ready to play. I had my schedule,
I knew I was playing -- it wasn't like I committed on Sunday night after I won. I knew I
was going there so; that is a place I like to play, so, I was ready. 
 
Q. Does your kind of laid back demeanor let you handle this No. 1 thing -- everybody
wants to talk about this rivalry thing with Tiger, does that allow you maybe to handle it
a little bit better than some other people might?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: It might. I don't know. Being ranked No. 1 is not a set goal of mine. It
is very nice, don't get me wrong, but -- it is through a system that everybody knows isn't
perfect, however nobody really knows how to make it better. I just -- It is comparing
people who play at different places all the time, so maybe that is why I don't feel
burdened by it. The only reason I am ranked one is because of play. It is not like I was
appointed to be one now I have to live up to it. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT