U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 1999
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yes, I have. But it's still the same game. I was not able to practice
quite like I would have liked, but at the same time there's times when that's good. And
when I got here and did finally hit balls on Tuesday, everything was where I wanted it to
be, I felt comfortable. And so I was not concerned at all about that. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, obviously it makes the greens a lot more receptive. I guess on the
practice days I've been hitting 6 irons into the 16th hole, and now because of the rain
the fairways are softer, so the ball is not running, so I had a 4-iron and that was just
to the front pin. The greens are more receptive. We're in a position where we're having to
hit anywhere from two to three clubs more into the greens now. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Just my birdies?  
 
 DAVID DUVAL: The 2nd hole I hit 7-iron about 8 feet away. Apparently, I missed the 7th
green, yes. I hit it in the right bunker and knocked it out to about a foot. I missed the
13th green on the left fringe and just had a little easy chip in, and I chipped it down to
a foot and a half or two feet. The 14th I left it a little bit short, putted it up through
the swale and my ball ended up about three feet away, and I made that. 15th hole I hit
5-iron to about two feet. And 17 I hit 7-iron to ten feet. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I went over those. 
 
Q. David, when you come out today and after the rains and things, did the course play
easier, harder, you talked about the club difference, but from what you were expecting for
the first round of the U.S. Open?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, although we had to hit more, if you're hitting the ball well, it
probably was playing a little bit easier. But at the same time it seems to me in the past
Opens I've played that the golf courses the first day are set up to where if you're
playing well you can make some birdies and putt up a 2, 3, 4-under par score. And after
that everybody tends to drift backwards a little bit. So all in all I'm obviously very
pleased to go out early on a day when there's going to be some scores under par, and to do
that. 
 
Q. If you keep driving the ball this well and avoid 3-putts all week, how well does
that set you up for chances here?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: It sets me up very well if I can hit it in the fairway and not 3-putt this
week. I think I'll be here Sunday night talking to you, too (laughter.) But the challenge
is not to 3-putt and to continue to hit it in the fairways. 
 
Q. You and Phil both ended up 3-under, but you had different rounds. He kept getting
up-and-down and chipping in and doing lots of things. You were kind of steady, talk a
little about the difference between the two.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: You just said it. That's how I try to play. I try not to have to do those
types of things. I find it to be less stressful (laughter.) To accomplish that, obviously
you have to hit the ball well, and I did that today, so I very much enjoyed the day. 
 
Q. Could you tell us a little detail more on the birdie on 17, how much boost that
gives you mentally going into tomorrow?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: It gives me no more boost than the birdie on 2 and the birdie on 15. I
don't know. I guess I think a little differently than that. That's just one of the holes
out there, and I happened to make birdie on it. It's one of 18 I had to play today. 
 
Q. David, even though the burn is now a nonissue, I notice both fingers are still
taped. Any tenderness, sting, any feeling at all?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: There's some tenderness in my fourth finger, but nothing bad. 
 
Q. You mentioned that you thought sometimes it's good not to practice, and I wonder if
you think that's what happened last week for you? What did you do?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I unpacked, worked out some, played with my cat, watched TV. That's what I
did. Pretty boring, I guess, but I rather enjoyed it. 
 
Q. David, going into the round today, what would you have been happy with? What were
you expecting to get today?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I had no expectations when I started. Based off of how I played the last
two days in the practice, I would have been looking to get under par somewhere.
Expectations? I don't like to do that because you might get on a day when you have it
really going, and you might not have thought that and it might prevent you from getting
even a couple more. But all in all I would have thought based off of that -- I guess it
sounds like an expectation. I was playing well to get under par. It was just going out and
doing it. 
 
Q. I don't see too much muck on your pants. How wet is it, and did you even hit it in
the rough? How bad is it in the rough?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, I hit it out of the first cut of the rough on the first hole I hit
it right, but I hit it where everybody has been walking in the gallery, so I had a very
good lie. And then the other hole I missed a fairway where I hit it -- well, the 4th hole,
I did hit it just off the first cut. It wasn't too bad. And then the other ones I was just
in the first cut, right off the fairway, so I didn't have to walk around high, wet grass
much. 
 
Q. It's not super wet out there, though?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: It's a little bit. I had some mud collect on my ball a couple of times,
but it's not real wet, no. 
 
Q. David, going back before the burn, you didn't play much between The Masters and
here. What were you doing in those weeks? Snow boarding or chilling out or what basically
were you doing in the time you took off?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: A whole lot of nothing, I guess (laughter.) I practiced some and worked
out. That's my day. That's my life. 
 
Q. You talked about the course being a little longer, on the par-4s. Was the 4-iron the
longest club you had to hit in?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I believe so. I think 16 I hit 4-iron into the green, and that was the
longest. I did hit a 3-iron on the 6th hole, but that wasn't on a 4 par, so, yeah. 
 
Q. David, is there any way to compare the anticipation you had on your first Tour win
and the anticipation you had on winning your first Major?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I think if I had to say, I would say that the anticipation for the first
Tour win was greater than the anticipation on the first win in the Major. I think when you
go on tour it might be a little bit of, well, maybe you're not quite sure, although I felt
pretty confident about it. But as I've continued to excel and win some tournaments. I
think it's a matter of time, so I'm not very anxious. 
 
Q. David, I was late getting here, so I hope you haven't been into this. But the great
start that you had and Phil, that's great for an Open, because I don't think this course
is going to get any easier, and I just wonder your thoughts there.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I agree. I think it's going to get more difficult as the week progresses. 
 
Q. One more question on the fingers, David, have you put a topical anesthetic?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I did the first few days. 
 
Q. And if so, what was your touch on the club? Did it affect you at all?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, it didn't, because I didn't touch a club until Tuesday of this week
from the Friday morning, this past Friday morning when I did it. So there was no effect. 
 
Q. Did Phil try to pull a fast one on the 15th green, was the mark on the ball there?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: He just made a little mistake, so that's all right. 
 
Q. You were frustrated at the Masters that you didn't give yourself a good enough
chance to win that, obviously coming off of Sunday night you could tell. What did you
learn at the Masters about a Major and can you bring something into here from that
experience?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I believe I told everyone that I felt as if I didn't play well
enough. Didn't I say something to that effect? So I guess if there's anything I learned, I
needed to play better. It sounds silly, but I played well enough two years ago to win The
Masters, but I just didn't quite play well enough to this year at that tournament. You
just need to be sharper. Everything else I did that week I think as far as not getting
ahead of myself, being patient, I think I did well, but I just didn't quite play well
enough. 
 
Q. David, how close is this to being your best round at an Open?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Purely off of ball-striking it probably is the best round I've had. Based
on the situation and circumstances, it's one of the better ones. But I think certainly
last year the second round was better, and there might have been some others. I don't
recall. Maybe you could even argue every round I played in I guess it was '90, at Medina,
you could argue that every round there -- those were probably the four best rounds I had,
based off of age and ability. So it's certainly one of the better ones, but I don't think
it's the best. 
 
Q. David, what of your game, was there one area you were a little bit disappointed with
or felt maybe you need some work on?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I was pretty pleased with all of it today. I felt like a drove the ball
well. I hit my iron shots where I was trying to. The shorter putts I had for birdie, a
couple of them looked like they might go in and did, and then I made a few of them. And
then the longer putts, I holed up pretty close. So all in all everything was pretty -- I'd
be very content to do that for three more days. 
 
Q. You played a couple of holes on Tuesday, I guess, and just the one round on
Wednesday, so that's basically the extent of the on-the-course prep for this?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No, I played a full round Tuesday and Wednesday. I teed off real early
Tuesday before anybody was here and played. 
 
Q. How many greens did you hit and how many putts did you have today?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I missed the 7th green and I missed 13 and 14, so I hit 15 greens. I
1-putted all those holes, so that's -- I made three birdies, so that's six, that leaves 12
holes times two, so I had 30 putts. 
 
Q. What's been your coffee making and drinking status since Friday?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Continue, same old, same old, just not on gas stoves. 
 
Q. David, you mentioned the putts you left out. What were they, how far?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: On four, I thought it was going in, and that was from 18 feet. And then I
had a putt on 6 from about ten or 12 feet that went on the left side, came out the right,
not quite 360, but it went 300 degrees. I think that's all. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 DAVID DUVAL: We talk about it some. We're good friends. 
 
Q. Going back to the Phil thing. He said even if he's leading he's leaving, to be there
for the baby. Some people are saying, yeah if he's leading on Sunday, what's your feeling
about that whole philosophy?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: You're asking me to speculate on something that I can't speculate on, I
don't know the situation, I don't know how I'd feel or react, so I can't give you an
answer. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT