U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 1999
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL: I guess I can get that out of the way quickly. They seem to be fine. I
played this morning, and didn't really have any problems with it. It's probably valid to
ask me tomorrow; although, I might not want to answer anymore. Seems like all I've been
talking about. Seems like they're okay, and I didn't have any problems playing with them.

DAVID DUVAL: No. Not frustrating at all, because it hasn't hampered anything, it hasn't
prevented me from playing, and it doesn't seem like it's going to prevent me from
performing as I would like this week. So it wasn't exactly the greatest of timing, but it
looks like it's going to be okay.

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I'm more than pleased with it. We get asked a lot about if we had to
name one course as our best course, our favorite course. Nobody can seem to do that. They
can make a list of four or five, and I guess the best way is to answer it, that this will
probably be added to that list. I think it's wonderful.

Q. You don't recognize me, but I know your father well, and we actually played golf
when you were in college up in Ponte Vedra. And I wrote a column saying you would be the
next Jack Nicklaus. So a lot of people kind of think I know something, but I don't. I'm
with the local radio station, and also a cartoonist. You've lost a lot of weight since
I've seen you. They say you're healthy. But let me ask you, with the advent of rain, how
is it going to change your chances? We've heard that guys like you, the long hitters,
would have an advantage. Would it be a disadvantage if it rains?

DAVID DUVAL: No. I don't really understand -- I know what you're asking, but if it
rains, all that does to the long players is gives them more advantage, not less, because
we carry the ball farther. And the people who hit it shorter tend to rely on more roll,
and they're not going to get the run-out like they would normally; whereas, we're going to
carry it still 280 yards.

Q. The talk about Tiger seems to have escalated even more in the past few weeks. Is
that something you think about at all or care much about at all, or do you just go out and
try to win no matter who is contending with you?

DAVID DUVAL: I think about it because I'm asked about it. I don't see how it's
escalating, because nothing has changed since two months ago. We haven't come off
face-to-face on a tournament on Sunday. I don't understand how it could have gotten bigger
or changed, but I don't think about it, no.

Q. You said the course is wonderful and you're pleased with it. The question is why;
what do you like so much about it?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, first, off I think it suits me well. It seems to set up for me well.
But I think at the same time, it's nice to have -- playing in U.S. Opens present new
challenges, as opposed to what we're typically used to. I think it's going to demand the
players to think a lot more and be very, very precise with their approach shots and the
greens.

Q. Dave, you're hitting a lot of extra little wedge shots from behind 18. What are sort
of the variables that you're looking at as far as around the green? Do you do that little
5-wood thing? How comfortable are you putting through that stuff? Bump-and-run, what all
options are you kicking around? 

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I think your options are a 3-wood type play, like you see some
players doing. I think you have an option of putting. I think there's an option of using
-- what -- I don't use a 3-wood, but it's the same type shot. I use a 2- or 3-iron; it's
the same premise. And I think the other option is chipping the ball, carrying it onto the
green. But into those slopes, kind of lifting it into the slope and letting it kill it and
bounce up then. I don't see an option of using 6- or 7-irons to bump it through the grass.
Those are the options I see.

Q. What do you see is the degree of difficulty in the rough?

DAVID DUVAL: I think what you're going to see, assuming it stays a similar height as it
is now, is it gives the players kind of a false sense of security that you can advance it
onto the green. And it looks to me the reasoning is to try to get players to go ahead and
try to hit some shots that will run into greens, because that's when you can get in more
trouble, as opposed to if you just have 180 yards to the green, and you knock it out 100
yards and you have an 80-yard sand wedge, and you knock it on and make a four or five.
Whereas, if you hit some shots out of it, you might catch the flyers that really go a long
ways off line or a long ways over the greens, and I think that's when you're bringing
bogeys, and maybe a double bogey, into play. 

Q. Now that you've played Pinehurst, would you project a possible winning score? The
second question is what does the No. 1 player in the world do, apart from preparing for
Pinehurst? I mean prior to that, what part of your game needs any special attention?

DAVID DUVAL: At this moment?

Q. Yes.

DAVID DUVAL: I stand by what I always say. I always think you can putt and chip better
and hit your wedges better; so that's what I continually work on.

Q. Do you have a score?

DAVID DUVAL: No.

Q. I think we've all heard the teapot story, but can you take us from the start through
the burn incident?

DAVID DUVAL: You know, if you want to hear the long version -- is everybody familiar
with those little, single-pack things of coffee, like tea bags? Same thing, basically.
Well, I moved a week ago, two weeks ago; so in my old house, I would get a little pot with
water and boil the water and pick it up; pour it into the coffee cup and put the bag in
and make a single cup. And I was doing the same thing; however, I guess at the old, house
it was one of those smooth, kind of like glass-top electric ranges. And this one is a gas
range, and I did the same thing. Didn't even think about it being any different than the
other one, and grabbed the handle of the pot, and that's when I burned myself.

Q. Would you name a few players that you think their game they're playing now suits
them well to win this tournament, other than yourself?

DAVID DUVAL: I think Tiger, Justin Leonard, Davis Love, Ernie Els, Phil Mickelson, Jack
Nicklaus, Greg Norman, Lee Westwood, Colin Montgomerie. You could go on and on, really. I
think it's -- I think what happens is -- I think the way the setup is that it brings a lot
more people into the mix. When you play a typical Open, you know, the fairway is going to
be narrow and the rough is going to be high. But since, here, you have the options of
advancing the ball, that brings more people into play. I think it's a lot more wide open.

Q. Could you talk about how the injury affected your preparations, if at all?

DAVID DUVAL: It halted them. I could not -- I haven't done anything for like a week. I
did stuff on, I think, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday. And Friday, I burned my hand; so I
haven't done anything since like last Wednesday.

Q. David, do you feel you'll be able to play the way you would have played with the
hand?

DAVID DUVAL: I feel it will be fine.

Q. With the rain that is expected, do you see the course drastically changing from
maybe Thursday's opening round through the weekend and having to adjust for that?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I don't know how much rain is going to come. If it's a lot, it could
have a big effect. But I think it's going to soften up some, but it will dry up quickly. I
don't know how the course drains. The greens look like they'll continue to be fairly firm,
because they tend to be raised. But I don't know what's expected weather-wise.

Q. You touched on this: What peculiar differences does this course make, and what are
your strengths, how do they match up with the peculiar difficulties of this course?

DAVID DUVAL: It's kind of what I've just said. You don't have the typical rough
everywhere. You have a lot of run-outs around the greens. And because of the various
slopes, especially around the edges, the greens themselves are actually smaller -- the
square footage, if you calculated it, might be. And you're going to have to be precise.
And every player is going to have to miss the green; so you have to chip -- you're going
to have to have a lot of different options. You're going to have to be creative and hit a
lot of shots.

Q. How do your strengths match up with it?

DAVID DUVAL: I think as a player out here, whether it's me or anybody else, if the
player is playing good, I think they match up fine anywhere. They asked me before I'd seen
the golf course if I thought I should get up there, and I was trying to, but it worked out
that I couldn't. I think this is about my 7th or 6th, maybe 8th Open, and I've yet to play
in one that hitting it in the fairway and knocking it on the green doesn't work, whether
there's rough or not. So I hope that it matches well. I think that all in all, I'm a
pretty straight driver, and I have good irons and play good iron play. So I think it could
match up well, assuming I play good.

Q. David, with you and Tiger, how has that affected you and helped you in your playing?

DAVID DUVAL: What are you getting at?

Q. Has he been extra motivation to you, and maybe have you been extra motivation to
him?

DAVID DUVAL: I can't answer for him. I don't know. I think Tiger is a player, one of
several players out here, that will always be motivating to other competitors, solely
because you know you're going to have to improve and get better. But at the same time, I'm
a firm believer that if you need motivation from outside sources, you're not going to go
very far; you have to have inner motivation. I understand the fact that I have to improve
and get better to keep up with all the different players, but I don't rely on that. I
count on myself for that.

Q. We can see the tape on your fingers. Can you talk about what precautions you're
going to have to take on Thursday to protect your hands?

DAVID DUVAL: Same thing as right here.

Q. What's the treatment, anything special?

DAVID DUVAL: Nothing.

Q. And finally, the game that really does rely so much on touch and feel, do you put it
out of your mind totally, or how do you deal with that?

DAVID DUVAL: It had no affect today. I can't really say for Thursday what it's going to
be like. But I don't see why it would be any different. It's all speculation right now,
but based on today, I don't foresee it even being an issue.

Q. David, as a modern player, how do you think of the work done by Donald Ross?

DAVID DUVAL: I was pretty fortunate. I grew up on a Donald Ross golf course. It's not a
world-famous one like this one, but you can still see some of the same thinking involved.
I think what you see with those golf courses, they're like ageless. They will always seem
to be good golf-and-chip challenges for any type player. I think that's what you're going
to find out this week.

Q. David, back before Colonial and Dallas, I heard something that maybe you weren't as
fired up about golf as you would have liked to have been. Have you regained that now, and
if so, how? 

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I put a lot of hard work on and off the golf course, getting ready
for the run from THE PLAYERS Championship to Augusta. I was in the mix for a while on
Sunday, which obviously wears on you. I just wasn't as ready to play as I would like to be
when I got to Houston. Maybe it's just I was more drained from those three weeks than I
had expected, maybe. So I chose to not play for a little while, to try to get back and get
ready. And yes, I am very eager to play.

Q. David, with Father's Day coming up, can you talk about what your dad has meant to
you, how you got started in the game, and maybe the relationship between fathers and sons
in this game, especially?

DAVID DUVAL: No, I can't. First of all, I don't have the time. I think it's pretty well
documented what part he's played in my life, and the fact I grew up around him and around
the golf course. But other than that, we could sit here for quite a long time and talk
about it; so I think it's best we don't get started, because I'm going to invariably skip
some things or leave some things out. And I don't think that would be fair, either.

Q. David, with allegedly the rough not quite as high, and the absence of rough on the
collars around the greens, might this course be something more akin to what the average
mainstream American golfer might see than previous Open courses?

DAVID DUVAL: No, I don't think -- I think this is very different. Most golf courses
that everybody plays they don't have the maintenance budget to maintain so many acres of
grass and keep everything so closely mown. That's why you see a lot of rough everywhere.
You don't have to cut it as often; not as many man hours involved. I don't think you can
appreciate it until you get on and play it -- well, I shouldn't say that. People will see
it on TV. Balls are going to roll and not stop for a while; so they'll get an idea of what
it is. And they'll have some shots of green elevations, and you'll be looking down and see
a player trying to come up and not see but the top of his head. It's going to be fun to
watch, I'm sure.

Q. David, Lee Westwood was in here and said he was almost disappointed that the rough
is only three inches, and said he preferred it to be knee deep, and the course to be
concrete hard. I just wondered what your thoughts on that would be?

DAVID DUVAL: You know, I don't have any preferences. I tend to just try to get out and
play what's in front of me. I just don't see any use in wasting energy wishing about
something that isn't. The golf course isn't that way; so I don't worry about it.

Q. David, how might the experience of playing and winning at THE PLAYERS Championship
under severe difficult conditions help you this week?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, THE PLAYERS Championship obviously has a big importance in the game.
Although it's not labeled a major, it's without question the best field every year. It's
just -- it's tough; everybody is there. And so what you can draw on is the fact that
everybody is there. Everybody teed it up. You played under extreme conditions, and I beat
them. So as long as you continue to realize that the same -- it's the same type field,
you've done it before. There's no reason not to think you can do it again.

Q. One more stupid hand question: Did you consider or try wearing a glove on that hand,
and if not, why not?

DAVID DUVAL: Yes, I considered it, but, no, I haven't. I got in touch with the folks
with Titleist to make sure I had some right-handed gloves if I needed it. But it hasn't
been the case that I needed it. I was fully prepared to try it, but I haven't needed to.

Q. David, how tough is the pressure you were undergoing into Augusta, and how are
things different now heading to this major?

DAVID DUVAL: I don't think it's a lot different, really. I don't think that the
pressure was any greater than anywhere else, though. I might be the so-called favorite,
but that has no bearing on the way you play or the outcome or how people look at you. But
I don't see the -- it's not a whole lot different this week, either, I don't think. But it
didn't -- that's not the reason I didn't win. I didn't win because I didn't play well
enough.

Q. David, would your season be complete without a major championship, or does the TPC
sort of qualify?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I can't answer that yet. The season is not over. It's hard to say.
You don't know what's going to happen. I might win one or might win two or might not win
any, or win six other regular events. You can't say what's going to happen. I would
certainly hope that at the end of the PGA, that I could tell you that I don't have to
answer that question. But right now, I wouldn't want to call it necessarily
disappointment, because a lot of great things have happened so far, but I don't know how I
would feel.

Q. What's your schedule from here? And if you were -- up until the British Open, and if
you were to win, would that change?

DAVID DUVAL: No, it wouldn't. My schedule will not change. I'm playing next week, and
then I play the British. But the only thing that might change that is just how my hand
reacts. If it gets bad and I don't feel like I can play next week, then I won't. But other
than that, I'm playing. 

Q. Other than "ouch," what does one think when they put their hand on a
teapot?

DAVID DUVAL: It wasn't really "ouch" (laughter.) You don't think -- I don't
know what you think. You just -- just "this is great." Seems like nice timing.
But I was obviously worried and concerned. But at the same time, it's not hard to do that.
Hard not to worry, but it still was Friday, and I didn't know what was going to happen
over the next few days. And luckily, right now, it seems to be okay.

DAVID DUVAL: It wasn't for tea, it was for coffee. But, yes, I am.

Q. You said that you think it's not going to affect you. But are you in pain? Does it
hurt?

DAVID DUVAL: No, it really didn't today.

Q. Now the real question: You and Tiger have talked about how there's no rivalry
because there's been no head-to-head confrontation. When that time comes, whether it's
here or somewhere else, will you go to that thinking: This is just another guy I'm trying
to beat. Or will you be thinking: Here it is, this is the confrontation we've been waiting
for?

DAVID DUVAL: I would speculate that I would be thinking that this is the same old, same
old -- just another person that I have to beat. Now, if that comes to pass and I come out
on top, I might gloat a little more (laughter.) No, I think as a competitor, when you're
playing, the person who eventually wins is not really concerned about one single player.
When they're done playing, they might take more pride out of the fact that it was Tiger or
Greg Norman or whoever else it might have been that they beat. But I think while you're
actually doing it, it has no bearing.

Q. David, how many holes of indoor practice swings did you get in today, and will the
hand change? How much you will do in the next couple of days before Thursday?

DAVID DUVAL: I played a full day. I played a full round. I hit balls to loosen up, and
then I teed off 6:30, 6:40 this morning, and played a full round. Hit some extra shots
while I was out and chipped around. And then I've been chipping over there for, I don't
know how long, maybe an hour. Maybe not quite that long. And no, it won't have any affect
on what I continue to do, at least not right now.

Q. David, have you had much feedback since Augusta about having the TV match with
Tiger, as opposed to it happened -- it happened kind of confrontation, showdown?

DAVID DUVAL: Have I --

Q. Have you had much feedback? Has anybody said, "That's great," or,
"Gee, why didn't you let it happen naturally"?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, there's been both. It seems that -- it seems like a lot of the
television people are excited about it. It seems like the reaction has been more negative
in the written media. And there's certainly been questions about that, about letting it
happen. But I think -- I think by talking about that match as a rivalry, I think it's
blowing it a bit out of proportion. I don't think the reasoning behind it is quite
correct. It's a one-day match. It's a one-day, 18-hole thing, and that does not make a
rivalry. What it is is a good way to get golf in primetime. Try to expose it to folks who
might not happen to watch it on Sunday afternoon. And it's an avenue to raise a lot of
money for charities, as well. But there has been people saying positive things, and
obviously there has been bad things said about it, too. Everybody is entitled to their
opinions about it. So I wouldn't try to sway somebody one way or another. But maybe
because I'm involved, I just have a harder time seeing the negatives of it. I think what
it is supposed to do and what it represents, it is only good for our game and for the
other people involved. Because, if you create a greater television audience because of it,
that's going to benefit all the people out here who play.

Q. You said you came out and walked the course yesterday. When did you do that, how
typical is that? And would you have done that had you not had the situation with your
hand?

DAVID DUVAL: It's not typical. I don't usually -- I won't do that usually unless I
play. I don't remember exactly when I went out. I think it was about 2:30, and I walked
the golf course and took a few clubs to see if I could chip around and putt a little bit.
I couldn't really chip around, but I tried to get some lines off the tees and see the
greens.

Q. Earlier, when you were talking about your reaction when you burned your hand, as a
great golfer and a guy who is worth a lot of money to himself and needs to stay healthy,
do you think about things: Maybe I better not pick up a knife today, or better not do this
or that?

DAVID DUVAL: No, I don't. It's kind of funny with all the different things I do and the
-- all the snow-boarding where people seem to think I'm crazy to do it. I've never had any
problems with doing that, but trying to fix a cup of coffee, I tried to almost take myself
out (laughter.) Maybe I should just get up on a mountain and buy a cup of coffee at the
bottom.

Q. This kind of touches on a question earlier about winning a major. How much does that
burn inside of you for your career to get that out of the way?

DAVID DUVAL: Very much. I don't see it as something I want to get out of the way. I see
it as a continual challenge. I think as players look back when they're coming to the ends
of their careers, it's really nice, and they feel a lot better if they have gotten -- if
they have won a major or two. But I think as a competitor, if I won this week, well, I'm
not going to be satisfied with it. I'm going to be wanting to win the next one, as well.
And I think that will continue as I play. So I don't view it as something I want to
overcome. And say I win here at Pinehurst. All right, I've won a major, and now I don't
have to worry about them anymore, I've done that. That's not how I think of it. I think it
was something that's going to be a challenge for the next 15, 20 years, whatever it might
be.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT