THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 1999
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I had a very -- I played very well again.  Actually, I don't think I hit the ball as quite as well as I did yesterday.  I am very pleased with my score, so, I look forward to this weekend. 
 
 
Q.  Your dad shot 61 and leads by 4.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  That is what I just heard.  How about that.  Took me by 8 (laughter).  I don't think the golf course is as hard, though.  (laughter) 
 
Q.  How hard is the golf course out there?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  It is very difficult.  I think the thing that makes it so hard is kind of like what happens at U.S. Opens. Seems like all the water from the fairways -- when they water, reach that first few feet of rough, that is the worst part.  I drive the ball pretty well.  When I miss a fairway, I just miss it in the worst part. Then you are playing to greens that are very fast and very, very hard.  I think the other real hard thing is when you do miss a green, you are chipping out of however long rough they want to call it, five or six inches, and you are actually -- you have to take a pretty good swing to hit, but at the same time try not to progress the ball, but sometimes six feet in the air, sometimes 12, sometimes 15, but not very far.  So something is going to give somewhere.  That combination doesn't work.  That is what makes it so difficult. 
 
Q.  You talk about missing a few birdie chances yesterday, a couple more obviously today.  Does that still give you somewhat of a positive outlook going into the weekend, knowing that you keep giving yourself a lot of chances?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  That is great to have made the birdies that I have and, you know, it is not like I have made real long putts to do them.  I have hit the ball close on a number of occasions throughout the round today and yesterday.  I made some, and I missed some.  So that makes you feel real good about you keep giving yourself chances.  Obviously, you are going to miss some of them.  If you have enough chances, you will make a few. 
 
Q.  Earlier in the week you talked to us about the possible distractions of being home and other things like this.  You must really, really be in a zone because you are just playing so beautifully.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I think if I was really in a zone I wouldn't have missed all those putts (laughter).  I don't know.  I  think I am doing a good job of not worrying about what is happening around me, but I feel like I am good at doing that every event I play in.  It is neat to come here and play, and by far the largest galleries I have had, and it is just real nice. 
 
Q.  What do you think about the play of Joe Ozaki, and what do you know about him?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I know Joe a little bit of him being a member of the Tour here the last several years.  I have played a few rounds with him.  I enjoy being out with him.  He is a very nice man. 
 
Q.  Do you remember which tournament you played with?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Oh, now you are getting me.  I don't know. I have done it on more than one occasion. 
 
Q.  With the afternoon, was this 69 maybe a shot or two better overall than yesterday's 69 in the morning?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't think so.  I was saying outside, it seemed to me today - I assumed it happened yesterday- that the playing conditions were very, very similar for both draws of the field, because yesterday we played the first nine holes or so without any wind, and then it picked up.  And it seemed like today we played the first 10 holes with a good bit of wind, and then it kind of died down a bit.  So it seems like it was a very even draw, and the weather didn't play a part in it. 
 
Q.  You said you have been getting your irons pretty close. A lot of guys have been complaining they haven't.  I just wondered, is this maybe a little local knowledge when you know these greens are so fast where you should try to land that ball and you're getting your distance right?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  No, not at all.  Because it -- this golf course, although it is in wonderful shape, many months throughout the year, it never plays this way except for this week.  They don't keep this golf course like this hard and six-inch rough. Greens aren't ever like this.  So I have no advantage that way.  If anything, the people that have been playing here for 15, 20 years would have greater advantage, because they have seen it more often than I have under these conditions. 
 
Q.  Like a difficult course, are some of the par saves you made, mental-wise, almost as big as a birdie?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Absolutely; I made two very good putts on 5 and 6 back-to-back.  5th hole, chipped to about 12, 14 feet by the hole.  And 6th hole, I knocked it by a good bit more than that. It was 30 feet, if it was a foot.  To make those putts was -- it helped to keep you going.  You want to avoid bogeys as much as you can, because although I have made a lot of birdies, they are not easy to make out here. 
 
Q.  Davis Love said he kind of feels that the field will  shake out tomorrow.  Given the guys on the leaderboard, do you see that happening?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  What does he mean?  The people -- 
 
Q.  Spread out.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  People will separate themselves a bit? 
 
Q.  Yes.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, certainly could.  I understand why he is saying that.  But I imagine from what -- the weather is supposed to be very similar, only going to get more difficult, I would think.  So that could happen.  But you are talking about a lot of -- talking about 144 world-class players here this week, so, I would imagine that the people who are up there under par are obviously playing well, as well as the leaders.  They just hadn't quite made putts maybe or something.  I don't know.  We will see. 
 
Q.  How did that ovation on 18 stack up to other ovations you get around the Tour?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  It was one of the big ones (laughs).  It was -- I think I have had a bigger one in Palm Springs this year. Something happened on the last day, (laughter) but that was -- certainly that rivaled it, I guess. 
 
Q.  Would winning this tournament mean a lot to you because it is the fifth most important tournament you play or because it is in your hometown or a combination of both?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Little bit of both.  I think, you know, what would add to it would be the course itself, the conditions under which we are playing.  We are competing on a golf course that is very difficult, under very difficult circumstances and a very difficult setup.  So that, I think, adds to it as well. 
 
Q.  When I talked to your dad earlier in the week, he told me he had been playing well, but for the last few weeks he hadn't been playing well, but he felt like he was coming back.  Did you guys discuss anything?  Did you give him any tips or hit any balls to go or anything like that?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  We played a little bit.  Hit a few balls this past -- the previous week.  So we worked on a few things, but not a whole lot.  I am not a teacher. 
 
Q.  I don't mean to call you Bruce Lietzke.  Yet, in some ways you have taken that approach this year.  The time that you need to yourself, and just taken more time off than a lot of players would.  Do you ever look at Bruce and what he has done and say, hey, you know --
 
DAVID DUVAL:  He is my hero? 
 
(Laughter) 
 
Q.  Not hero, but the fact that you don't have to be out here grinding week-in and week-out.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  You are right.  You don't.  I think you need to focus on quality, not quantity.  At the same time, over the course of the last few years, I have played myself into position where people expect me to compete to win.  And if I  don't, they want to know why.  So when I tee it up, I feel like I have a responsibility to be prepared and to be ready to play, not just to show up and be a part of the field.  So for me to accomplish that, I take time here, take time there, make sure I am fresh and ready to play. 
 
Q.  What is your limits?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  As far as -- 
 
Q.  Limits of playing before you have to take a break, and amount of break you have to take?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, you know, one week off is nice, but two is a lot better.  But, you know, I am -- the longer stretch I am going to play is three; then I am taking two weeks off then I am going to play four weeks in a row.  Then sporadic for a while. So that will be my longest stretch which was -- and four is pushing it. 
 
Q.  Better three?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Better three, but I am going fishing after the second one for a couple of days, so, that is why I figure it won't be too bad.  When you do that, I try to when I am on the stretch of three or four, I try to -- I don't play golf on Mondays, maybe do very little on Tuesdays; especially when you get into the third and fourth weeks you need to take some days off. 
 
Q.  What is your handicap as a snow boarder?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Ooh - seems like I am better than most of my Pro-Am partners.  I don't know.  I am you know, actually I probably snow board like majority of people play golf (laughter). It is not something you can improve at rapidly unlike this game, but you got to be a little bit -- you got to have a couple of screws loose to do some of the stuff that a lot of those people do on those things.  But I am certainly no better than in the teens. I hope to improve quickly, but we will see. 
 
Q.  You said the fly fishing has gotten down to single digits?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, but I think I have kind of probably lost a little, so I might be creeping back in the teens there as well. 
 
Q.  You are saying that the vast majority of people who play this game are not good at it?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Simple truth, isn't it?  It is just -- (laughter).  You know, I mean, I am not -- I am really not trying to be mean.  It might not have sounded too good when I said it, but-- 
 
Q.  When you snow board do you get mad, kick the snow, throw your snow board?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  No, actually I kind of laugh at myself. Because -- but you got to try a few things if you want to improve, but no, unless -- you can't really kick snow, all you do is fall quickly and hard.  But I don't know, it is good fun. 
 
Q.  Most common injury in snow boarding is related to your thumb or wrist? 
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I wear a wrist guard and a helmet.  You know, I am not going to take that chance, you know, it will help hopefully, but it is just so easy to catch an edge and go down quick, you need to have a little bit of protective gear. 
 
Q.  What did you do out of the bunker - not to get away from snow boarding - on No. 2 fairway bunker?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Hit it fat.  Yeah, the third shot, just hit it fat. 
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Hit it fat out of the fairway bunker for my third shot; chipped long and then 2-putted. 
 
Q.  Was that a pretty tough pill to swallow, taking a bogey on 2?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, combining that with hitting it close on one and failing to make that putt, it made it a little more difficult.  But it was only second hole too, so, although you certainly feel like you should make the four or five on that hole, at least I was early in the round.  The third hole I hit a 7-iron to four feet.  The 4th hole hit sand wedge out of the fairway bunker there to two  feet.  5th hole, 6th hole we went over.  9th hole, hit sand wedge to six inches.  11th hole, hit it over the green with 2-iron chipped to about four feet.  13th hole, missed the green to the right, chipped to about six feet, missed it.  15, I hit sand wedge to about twelve feet, made that. Parred in, that is it. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about that putt at 18, how long was that putt?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Maybe four feet. 
 
Q.  One of those that got away?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, I certainly would have liked to have made it.  But I hit a good putt.  Just broke more than I had expected.  Then if you think about it you go back to a couple of those par putts I made that I shouldn't have.  At least the one on 6 maybe I shouldn't have.  So it works itself out. 
 
Q.  The times you have played here, the tournaments you have played here, is this, by far, the hardest conditions?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, we will see after tomorrow or the next day, but I think it is close to what -- 1996 when Lee won, 95?  You know, I think it is very similar to that right now.  If I remember, we had more wind, though.  I think blowing 20, 25 miles per hour, but I think the golf course itself is playing very similar.  We just have not had as much wind. 
 
Q.  Do the conditions like this help create -- seems like always good drama here.  Do they help create that or is that the field or combination?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Both.  You put great golfers under difficult circumstances and you are going to have some crazy  things happen, but both good and bad. 
 
Q.  I know it is early, but how cool would a Duval double be?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  That would be really nice, wouldn't it? 
 
Q.  Have you and your dad ever talked about such a thing?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  No, I don't think so.  It is more of him trying to get that first one than anything else. 
 
Q.  You know a little bit about that?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  A little bit.  But, you know, I think he is realizing he is certainly capable of that and so it wouldn't surprise me to see him keep going. 
 
Q.  Will you all talk tonight?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Maybe.  I don't know.  Maybe not.  I don't know where he is staying so, I spoke to him on Monday -- Tuesday when he left.  I haven't spoken with him since. 
 
Q.  Will you tell him now that he shot 61 that you will teach him to shoot 59?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, he is two shy still.  Yeah.  That is good, good golf, especially what did you say 4 ahead? 
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, I think when you see a score not -- within 4 shots, you realize how good that round was.  I remember when we played over there on the Nike Tour, my father did that the first round, shot 61; I think the next best score of the day was like 68, so obviously he played a very nice round. 
 
Q.  He has been in the 60s seven rounds in a row there on that course?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  My dad has? 
 
Q.  Yes.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Good.  Two more and he might be all right. 
 
Q.  Any strokes given when you two play head-to-head?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Usually I just give him the up-tees. 
 
Q.  Seriously?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  He plays up -- out here he plays up.  He will play up on -- well, if there -- if you have another SENIOR TOUR player playing, they will gripe about it and want to move up, the two of them, but I don't think he has the courage to gripe about it when he is alone.  So like I have played with him and Leonard and they wouldn't play it back on 5 or 7, probably another hole somewhere too.  14, they won't play back.  Make sure they get those 420 yard holes, not 460. 
 
Q.  When you play with Leonard, how big is the bet?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Oh, it is not large at all.  Maybe five or ten dollars.  They don't want to lose anymore than that. (laughter). 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT