THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 1999
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I think I played quite well.  I did. I hit the ball.  I expect a lot of myself, so I am not going to say I hit it better than I might have expected after a break, but I was very pleased starting out like I did.  So it was a good day. 
 

Q.  As perfect as it was condition-wise, are you surprised 67 is the lowest number that has been posted so far?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  No, because the wind wasn't really a factor on the first nine holes.  But then it really picked up right now. So on our front 9, our second nine holes it was, you know, I don't know how to -- a club, club and a half -- it was going pretty good there.  The greens really dried out rather quickly, and it became a lot more difficult after about 10, 10:30 in the morning. 
 

Q.  Was the course playing so hard that it wouldn't surprise you if that held as the lead today?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I imagine it will.  I don't think you will see much, at least not much lower than that. 
 

Q.  Tiger said he was surprised at some of the pin placements; that they would save those 'til the weekend.  Can you talk about that?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Any specific ones? 
 

Q.  He didn't really say.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  No, they seemed pretty typical to me, actually.  You know, only one I would have -- they are places that are used historically.  They mix them up, obviously, each year, but I wasn't real surprised by anything. 
 

Q.  Tee shot hit on 18; what did it hit?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  The fairway.  (laughter). 
 

Q.  Looked like it got a pretty high kick and bounced a little bit further away.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  It didn't.  It didn't hit the wood.  I mean, because my golf ball wasn't marked up.  I got a little bunch of "ooh's" and "ah's" behind us on the tee, but I think it just hit on the edge of the rough, the cut, and kicked in the air.  I mean, it carried at least five steps past the water.  It was -- it did carry well up there. 
 

Q.  Did you have enough good putts today?  Like, for instance, on 17, even though you didn't make them, to make you feel about your putting stroke right now?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, I did.  Actually, if you would have asked me that after the 12th hole, I might have said, no, but because I had some very good chances early that I missed.  But all and all, I feel like I putted rather well, and I  have been putting in some work on it, because a few things have gotten out of whack at the end of the west coast swing.  So I was pleased for the most part. 
 

Q.  What was out of whack?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Just my ball position had moved way forward; and therefore, my weight has moved to my left foot.  So I have been trying to settle back in and distribute the weight in my stance evenly.  That is what was out of whack. 
 

Q.  Are you any better putting on really, really fast greens as opposed to moderately fast greens?  Does one set favor the other?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't think I am -- I don't mind them being very fast, because I feel like I putt short putts well.  And when you are on very fast greens, you are going to face many three-, four-, five-foot putts.  And I feel like I handle those well, so, it doesn't bother me.  But when you get, I think, at times when you get on greens like, you know, maybe like at the Bob Hope is a good example where they are perfect, but only rolling about 10.  You really have to be really -- got to get aggressive; then to try to make more putts, because a lot of people are going to make putts. But I kind of enjoy the fast greens. 
 

Q.  Notice any rust at all?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Very little.  But to start out like I did it kind of, you know, you jump right back in the mix and aren't struggling.  I wasn't struggling at all, so, I had some reasonable putts for birdie and hit some really good golf shots.  So it just kind of felt like it was a bit of -- wasn't as much of a break. 
 

Q.  I guess all the other tournament directors from all the other tournaments on the Tour come here to recruit players.  What is that like?  What do they do?  They just come up to you on the driving range?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Well -- 
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Basically what happens, I don't -- I think they all know that I am pretty straightforward and I don't tell them I might be coming when I am not.  Good example, the director who runs the Hartford event, I told him three or four years.  He keeps asking me:  Are you going to come up?  Can't make it.  I am not going to be there.  Like last year he asked me again.  I said:  I might make it this year, looks like a lot better; and ended up going.  But they just ask you if it might work in your schedule. At least that is what they do to me.  I don't know about the other players. 
 

Q.  Which do you prefer, and what are the differences between playing from home and playing on the road?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I think you have to be a little more conscious when you are at home of treating it like a tournament, of being aware that you are competing - especially since it is  this one you are talking about, a major events.  I think you have to be a little more conscious of that. 
 

Q.  How is the restaurant, doing?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't know. 
 

Q.  You haven't been up there yet?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Not this week, no.  I am a very, very small part of that.  I mean, everybody thinks I own this place, but -- 
 

Q.  PR material.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Good.  Excellent service there, I think; hammering out those problems.  As much as we all eat out travelling, you want good service, so -- but I think it is getting better. 
 

Q.  You said that you just kind of jump right back into it. Do you feel you can turn your game on and off, like take three weeks off, and you are right back into it again?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  No.  I think what you -- I don't want to -- I don't know.  I prepared a little bit last week.  To what extent, I don't -- (laughs).  I don't want everybody to think I probably didn't hit a ball last week (laughs).  That might not quite be true.  Those type of breaks, when you take a week off, you can do that, I think.  You can kind of forget about it for a week, head back to the next event, and get back into it.  When you take three weeks off, I think you need to pay a little more attention and put in some time. 
 

Q.  You say you played 27 one day last week?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yes. 
 

Q.  You played two rounds at Augusta.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yes. 
 

Q.  Probably another round each day in between or --
 
DAVID DUVAL:  (laughs) Might have even played 27 another time. 
 

Q.  Is that as heavy a practice week as you had or is that normal sometimes?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, strictly playing golf was more than I normally do, but practice-wise, it is typical for an end-of-the-year November-December type preparation for the start of the new year. 
 

Q.  Do you guys even look at the leaderboard during the first day and if so, what was it like seeing you and Tiger and Norman and Davis Love all on the leaderboard?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I think you probably look at it a little bit, but you don't pay much attention to it.  As much as anything it kind of -- I use it as a reassurance on days when it is difficult like this that I am seeing the same thing everybody else is, I am seeing the same difficulties and tough playing conditions.  You can use the scoreboards for a good measure of that.  But other than that first couple of rounds, I am not real concerned.  
 
DAVID DUVAL:  13, 7-iron about three or four feet away from the hole.  14th hole, hit 7-iron about twelve feet away.  15th hole, hit 7-iron out of the fairway bunker over the green, chipped to 20 feet, maybe little bit more.  2-putted for bogey.  16th hole, hit 8-iron just left of the green, chipped up to about three feet, made birdie.  And 18th hole, I hit a 9-iron to about 18, 20 feet. 
 

Q.  You often hit 8-iron for a second shot on 16?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  No, that was -- I hit a drive there; that's where my ball ended up, I was very happy with.  I hit it right on the line I started with, but instead of the ball going straight or falling a little bit right, it went left, I know it hit a tree because it had a big mark on it, but I think it must have just kind of bounced forward even because I mean, it was only 157 yards from the front of green so it was right up next to the crosswalk in the left rough. 
 

Q.  You didn't find a tee underneath it?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  You might have thought that, but if they did, they could have given me a little better lie.  It was a very good lie, but it could have been a little bit better. 
 

Q.  Did you get your monthly kind of left-hand-shot out of the way there?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  No, that was not even close to being a hook.  It was a little bit of a draw when I expected to hit a little bit of a cut.  The first hole I hit 2-iron into the right rough, pitched out, hit a sandwedge onto the green about 20 feet short of the hole, 2-putted.  The second hole, I hit a 2-iron over the green, chipped by about 20 feet, made it.  The fifth hole, hit 8-iron onto the back fringe on the left, not like on the back of the green, but the fringe left behind the hole and, you know, was dead, I mean, I am 20 feet and I just got it started and it rolled about eight feet by the hole, I missed that.  The 7th hole I hit an 8-iron to about twelve feet.  And then the 9th hole I got up-and-down.  Isn't that all? 
 

Q.  On the final nine for your 59, was it that different a feeling?  Was it unique or was it just something where you are in  -- just so confident when you came down the stretch with a 59....
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Which part of that nine holes are you trying to get at? 
 

Q.  Final four, five holes where you knew you had a shot at it.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  It never really occurred to me until the --  about the 16th hole because I knew I was way under par and I mean, I knew I was, whatever it was, but although I feel like I am pretty capable at shooting low scores.  I just don't think about shooting 59.  I was watching the scoreboard trying to catch up.  I am rocking and I am rolling; I am making birdies; I am trying to catch up. I just keep -- seeming like I am staying one or two behind; then I think I birdied about the -- I think I birdied 14 or something, that got me to 23 -- I don't even know.  Anyways at some point I got 24, got on top of the leaderboard or something after I guess, 16; now all of a sudden I have caught up.  When I had that -- I had knocked a sand wedge like this (indicating a foot) so I had a tap-in putt that put me 11-under par with two holes to play, you know, one of which, if you hit two good golf shots more likely going to make a birdie.  Other one is 17th hole par 3, although it is just a 9-iron, it is still a difficult hole because it is a very, very narrow green.  At that point I thought I've got a good opportunity here to do that. 
 

Q.  I have been there many times.  It is real exciting.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  (laughs) 
 

Q.  Curious what you think when you play with Hal Sutton.  I imagine you were ten, eleven years old when he was compared to the next Nicklaus; then he went through a pretty deep slump.  Now it seems like he is back.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Well -- 
 

Q.  Do you remember when they --
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I remember him winning the PGA; he won this event as well that same year.  I played -- having watched what transpired the last couple of years, his game coming back and having such a wonderful year last year and then I start out the year -- his first event of the year I played with him in Phoenix, I don't know where he finished, but he really played beautiful golf first couple of days and, then again, today, he did the same thing.  It make you curious as to exactly what happened.  But Hal is the type of player that, really, I think because of being the next Nicklaus and then not quite attaining what people thought he would attain, that he was -- they stopped talking about him.  I watch him play when I am playing with him. He is just a marvelous, marvelous player.  You can see exactly why he was touted for that. 
 

Q.  Could you look ahead for us to the weekend; what traditionally happens in this tournament, what score--
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I think the weather is going to dictate a lot of that as far as how the golf course is going to play.  From what I understand, it may rain tonight.  If it does, that is going to make the golf course probably a little bit easier because the greens will soften up a bit.  But if it doesn't get much, I think the way the golf course has been prepared and it is playing such that it is going to be a low scoring affair.  You are talking a single digits probably; maybe even something like what happened  with Lee Janzen when he won a few years ago. 
 

Q.  Real low scores?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I beg your pardon?  Very few low scores.  I don't think it will -- I just don't see how that is going to happen.  Just don't see it happening. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT