WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 1999
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL:  Thank you.  I played pretty well.


Q.  I know you said it was such a fine line between 1 and 6 (inaudible).  Is it still surprising to see guys like Mark O'Meara maybe lose today.  And Ernie?

DAVID DUVAL:  It isn't to me.  Did all those people lose today?


Q.  Els, Westwood, Furyk, Monte, and O'Meara is 2-down.

DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, I mean, I think a perfect illustration is my match.  I was -- I don't have the tally, but I was 5- or 6-under par and I had a tough match.  So I think -- I think when you put the number after 64 compared to a No. 1 next to the player, it kind of visually creates a wider gap than there actually is.


Q.  Just wanting to ask, what did your response mean out there today?  How did it feel?  How did you play?  What are you looking forward to tomorrow?

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I would hopefully play well tomorrow.  I had to play really good today to win.  I don't know who I am facing tomorrow.  But it really doesn't matter, you know, if I can make shoot a 4-, 5- or 6-under, something like, that I will have a good chance to win.  I might still get beat, but, you know, I don't -- I don't pay attention too much to who I am playing.  I am just am trying to make some birdies.


Q.  Do you like this format, the challenge of it?

DAVID DUVAL:  It is all right.  I mean, I think there is a reason we play metal play every week.  That is through the course of 72 holes, the fellow who is playing the best that week is going to tend to win.  He won't always, but he will tend to win a high percentage of the time, and that is what you look for.  In this type format, you only have to beat six people to win the golf tournament, and at the same time, it makes it easier to win, but you can very easily get ousted as well.  But I think it is nice for a change.  I do enjoy to do it every now and then.


Q.  I think you won four holes in a row.  Is that the momentum swing in the match that turned it to your favor?

DAVID DUVAL:  It certainly helped.  I won the 4th, 5th,  6th and 7th.  I birdied all those holes and got to 4-up.  I needed all of them, as it turns out, you know, it was -- I got through the first three even in the match when I could have been down a hole or two, and to do that it really kind of got me going.


Q.  Did you feel any pressure that you might not have at another stroke-play event, knowing that if you don't play well or other guys play great that you are going home today?

DAVID DUVAL:  There could be, yeah.  I didn't really feel much of that today.  I think you kind of just consciously know that that could happen and don't worry about it.  Just forget about it and just go play.


Q.  Do you feel any sense of relief now?  You have at least gotten past the first round.

DAVID DUVAL:  It helps.  I am not going to lie to you.  I certainly I am happy to have progressed past the first day of golf.  I think it will help me kind of loosen up with the format. I have worked so hard over the last -- really, since I have been on Tour to get accustomed to using 72 holes to win a golf tournament, you know, and that takes some adjustments; at least, it did for me in learning how to do that.  And, now you are facing a week where you don't have that and you could be beat very easily.  So it certainly gives me a little more confidence to get past today's match.


Q.  Say you and Tiger got to the final, how well do you think the match will do on a pay-per-view basis?

DAVID DUVAL:  Not as good as a Tyson fight.  I don't know it.  Is not going to be pay-per-view so you don't have to worry about that.


Q.  Looking back at Augusta last year coming so close, a year later what did you take out of that?

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I think you know, I think I proved to myself that under the circumstances of trying to win a major that I can handle it, you know, it took some -- really some excellent putts on Mark's part and some incredible golf to keep me out of a playoff that year.  So I think, if anything, I know I have it in me to do it.

DAVID DUVAL:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT