THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 31, 1998
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't know what to say.  I mean, a good day, you know, didn't hit too many poor shots today and put up a pretty good score in the conditions we were facing.  So we got interrupted of play on 12 and 18. 
 
DAVID DUVAL:  On 5, laid up and hit a sand wedge to about 15 feet. 
 
DAVID DUVAL:  8, I hit a 6-iron about 14 feet from the hole.  9, I hit a 9-iron into the water short and  made a 6.  10, I hit a 7-iron about 4 or 5 feet.  11, I hit a 2-iron on the green and 2-putted. 
 
WES SEELEY:  About how long was that eagle putt. 
 
DAVID DUVAL:  The eagle putt was maybe 25 feet, something like that. 
 
DAVID DUVAL:  14, I buried it in that bunker. 
 
DAVID DUVAL:  The way I chose to play it, I chose to try to leave it in the bunker and -- which I did, and made the bogey once which I was looking at making when I saw it was buried.  15, I was in between 4 and 5-irons into the green and hit it into the right side bunker and had no shot.  So another bad bunker break.  I did make par though 16; I hit a 6-iron about 20 feet.  17, I hit a sand wedge about 15 feet. 
 

Q.   At 9, did a gust of wind come up?  What happened there?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah.  I only had, I think, 120 yards to the hole and it's downhill, and I hit a 9-iron.  I mean, it wasn't like a full hard hit 9-iron,  it was just kind of knock it down 9-iron, and it certainly hit a pretty good gust.  You could kind of, you know, see the ball stood up in the wind and it falls in the water, then you feel the wind come hit you.  So we knew exactly what had happened. 
 

Q.   Would you have -- first question:  How much, if at all, did the delays affect you and would you have preferred the earlier start that the network apparently had recommended?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't -- you know, that's not my decision to make.  I prefer playing in twosomes myself, so I think it goes for -- it gives better flow out on the golf course.  So -- and I don't think -- you know, the delays were -- they seemed for me they both came right when I was kind of getting things going a little bit.  I had just birdied two in a row and we got called in, and then I birdied two more in a row and we got called in again.  But, you know, I don't think it affected -- I did a heck of a putt on the last hole, really thought I made it.  You know, it's just part of what we do, and you have to deal with them.  You know, my other competitors had to deal with it, so you don't put too much stock in it.  I just try to be prepared to go out and play again when we have the opportunity.  
 

Q.   Will it bother you at all when you think about 9?  I mean, there isn't much more to get it done, right?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, you know, the only thing that bothers me about that, I mean, that happens.  It hits water, it hits the wind and that happens, but just hitting such a poor fourth shot is -- you're not really giving myself the opportunity for a putt at bogey. That's the most disappointing thing about that. 
 

Q.   What time is your flight tonight?  Are you going to miss it or make it?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't know.  Me and Davis are flying home together, so we should -- I think we'll be able to leave. 
 

Q.   I'm sorry?
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I think we'll be able to leave. 
 

Q.   What about Freddie's play, the problems today, he seemed to handle them rather well.
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah.  What are you -- I don't know what problems he encountered. 
 

Q.   I'm talking about the weather, is what I meant by that.  I was going to preface it by saying how difficult were the conditions with the start and stop, and I thought you'd already answered that. 
 
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I think, you know, everybody knows Fred has a less than perfect back.  I guess he has problems with it a lot, so it seems like it's been pretty good for most of this year.  I think it being warm, it probably made it better for him as far as stopping and restarting and having to do it again; I would think that that certainly helped.  So -- but, you know, like I said, we all had to do it. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT