THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MERCEDES-BENZ AND MICHELOB
November 1, 1997
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL:  It was a hard day, you know.  Wind was blowing pretty good.  Made for a difficult club selection.  Made it difficult to putt, drive the ball, all the way through the round.


Q.  How big a wind was it?

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, it was certainly a couple of clubs; enough to hit some shots obscenely far with some irons and some drives.  Enough to make the scores go up (laughter).


Q.  Are you surprised at all when you came in and saw the leaderboard, that despite the bogey on 12, looking back, might not be all that bad, the one at 14, you were still tied for lead?

DAVID DUVAL:  I didn't know when I finished how I stood, to be honest with you.  I thought the lead was somewhere at 9 or 10.  You know, like you said, the 4 on 12 wasn't a bad score.  After my bogey on 14, certainly didn't enjoy it. You know, there's so many -- there was four more hard holes  to be played with all that wind.  Serves you no good to think about it.  You know, you've just got to keep on.


Q.  Have you thought at all about the consecutive events, three in a row, until somebody pointed it out at all?

DAVID DUVAL:  No, I have not.


Q.  I mean, it's such a big tournament, whether it be any tournament, overshadow pretty much that, I would think.

DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, you're probably right.  You know, I'm certainly going to do my best to win this golf tournament tomorrow.  It just so happens that that would have been three starts in a row.  That's just crazy circumstances, that's all.


Q.  Have you thought about trying not to think about three in a row?

DAVID DUVAL:  I'm not thinking about it (laughter).


Q.  But you will when you leave here.

DAVID DUVAL:  I don't -- I don't know what to tell you.  I haven't been thinking about it.  I'm not concerned about winning three golf tournaments.  I'm trying to win this one, you know.  I thoroughly enjoyed winning at Williamsburg and then down at Disney, but those are in the past.  You know, I now have an opportunity to win another golf tournament.  That's what I've got to worry about. 


Q.  After you hit the iron off the tee on 14, still didn't give you the results you wanted, did you kind of make up your mind the rest of the round to go ahead and let it rip?  You had three pretty good drives to finish up.

DAVID DUVAL:  Right.  No, it was just the hole is set up that way.  You know, 14 doesn't set up well.  I mean, it gets real tight driving.  Yesterday I hit a 3-wood and just went too far left.  Had I been on the fairway, I would have had like 130 yards to the hole today.  You know, there's no reason to try to get fancy and squeeze it down into a tighter area when you're still going to be hitting a pitching wedge or middle wedge.


Q.  In this tournament, will you think about the money tomorrow?  Can you keep from thinking about the money tomorrow?

DAVID DUVAL:  I don't -- I don't think you will.  I don't think anybody who has a chance to win will.  It's not as important as the victory.  I mean, don't get me wrong, I doubt whoever wins is going to give it back.  But I certainly think, at least for me, I shouldn't speak for anyone else, I'd rather take the trophy.


Q.  Even though two wins are in the past, what do you take out of those to help you tomorrow?  The timing of those wins, given the fact that you're tied for the lead in such a  big tournament is pretty fortunate for that confidence, I would think?

DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah.  It just works out such that I've caught -- I've been playing well.  I certainly feel confident about what I'm doing.  Breaking par today proved to me that I'm pretty close to where I want to be with my game on a real hard day like this.  So I look forward to the chance tomorrow to get out there and see what happens.


Q.  One of those rounds where you walked off and those of us who don't know everything that goes on in that rope, walk out where we don't really know how hard that was?  Was that as difficult an under par round under those kind of conditions that you've had?

DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah.  It was a lot more difficult to shoot that score than it was to shoot the two previous scores I had.  You know, I was just figuring, you know, some of the drives you hit up in the mid 300s, I just don't do that.  There's so much wind that it makes it hard.  Like on 18, I hit a good drive.  It ended up being too close to the green.  I would have preferred to have been 20 or 30 yards further away.  But, you know, I hit a 210 yard 8-iron at one point, just stuff that happens on a day like this.


Q.  Was the wind much of a factor in putting? 

DAVID DUVAL:  Absolutely.


Q.  Yeah?

DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah.  You don't -- I mean, I changed my approach a little bit in that I wasn't as aggressive on my first putts because, you know, with that wind, you don't want to stand over three and four footers all day coming back to make pars.  Last couple case days, the wind wasn't blowing, not as big a deal, you know, you're not going to get blowing around.  Actually, I feel I missed a few putts that probably would have gone in the last couple of days because I just wasn't hitting them quite as firm.


Q.  Is your dad here?

DAVID DUVAL:  No.


Q.  How is he holding up?

DAVID DUVAL:  I don't know.  It's certainly not an enviable position he's in.  You know, he's done all he can do.  Just got to wait and see what happens tomorrow.


Q.  Maybe you could lend him some of your money.

DAVID DUVAL:  If they'd let me (laughter).


Q.  Second shot on 14, what was your thought on that? What were you trying to do?  That tree branch was a bit --

DAVID DUVAL:  Kind of trying to hit a low shot under it.  I don't know.  Just had a brain cramp or something.  Just chipped it (laughter).  Really wasn't even  close to being what I was looking for.


Q.  As much as the actual battling the wind, has it happened a couple times where you have to put so much mentally into every shot, worrying about the wind, worrying about where it's going to land, there's going to be a couple lapses?

DAVID DUVAL:  I could see that, yeah.  That certainly is possible.  Maybe that was one of them.  I don't know.  But I wasn't even -- I mean, I hit the shot, I don't know, 30 yards short of where I was looking to hit it.  That's not even close.

DAVID DUVAL:  3-putted No. 2 for bogey.  I birdied No. 3, about 10 feet.  Birdied 5, you know, two feet.  Just chipped up close.  Then I parred all the way through.  Birdied 11 from about 15, 18 feet.  Hit it in the bunker on 12.  Didn't get up-and-down, so I made bogey.  13, I chipped to about three feet.  Then 14 I had about 10 feet for par and I missed.


Q.  Was 12 kind of like the scariest hole with that wind? 

DAVID DUVAL:  Actually, I thought No. 4 was probably a little bit more difficult of a shot.


Q.  What did you hit on 12?

DAVID DUVAL:  3-iron.


Q.  No. 5, how far was your chip?

DAVID DUVAL:  Where?


Q.  On No. 5.  You said you chipped up close on the birdie.


Q.  How far was the chip?

DAVID DUVAL:  Just a bump-n-run.  Maybe 35 feet away from the hole.


Q.  Where did you hit that 210 yard 8-iron?

DAVID DUVAL:  Right there (laughter).  I hit it.  I was in the rough there.  I had 209 yards to the hole.  I hit it on the back fringe of the hole, right about 35 feet (laughter).  A little flyer, howling down the wind.  That's where it's hard.  How do you pull out an 8-iron (laughter)?


Q.  Considering how well you're playing now, are you almost sorry to see the regular season ending right now?

DAVID DUVAL:  Yes and no.  I've played more events this year than I have in the past.  I'm certainly looking forward to a little bit of a break.  But at the same time, I could see where I might prefer a little earlier in the year.  You know, through some good breaks and good playing the last couple of weeks, I turned what was a mediocre year into a very good one.  So I have to be pleased with that, you know, look forward to next year.


Q.  You get to start a week early this time?

DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah.  I don't know what to do (laughter).  Used to having that extra week off.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT