THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MERCEDES-BENZ AND MICHELOB
October 30, 1997
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL:  Nothing special.  I played real well.  Certainly made my share of putts.  Shot 5-under par. Made a couple mistakes.  I seemed to recover fairly well. That's what you need to do to keep the round going.


Q.  David, outside of maybe 17, how good a day was this for some really good saves?  First par 3, was it a good day for that for you as they go?

DAVID DUVAL:  No.


Q.  Seemed like there were a lot of four-, five-footers.

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I was playing for birdies, though, most of them.  It's not like I was having to chip up.  You know, I was being aggressive, I guess, a little more than I should have, and I just ran a few by.  With the rain, it gets turned away from the hole, the ball doesn't want to stop.


Q.  After taking last week off, how confident were you that you would continue the strong run you've had?  Seems like you were picking off where you left off. 

DAVID DUVAL:  I don't think you ever know.  You know -- or I know that I'm playing well.  Certainly taking that week off could have possibly hurt me.  But at the same time, had I played -- I think taking a week off, I gave myself a better opportunity to play well because that would have made this my seventh tournament in a row, and that's an awful lot.  It was something I had to do, just come out here and go with what I had.  I might not have been playing as well.  Early on in the week here when I got here, I certainly wasn't hitting it quite as well as I had the previous three weeks.  Seems to have gotten a little better every day.  I actually feel like I'm -- certainly feel like I'm striking the ball a little bit better than I did at Disney, but not quite as well as at Kingsmill.


Q.  Some of the players came in here earlier said that the course was playing a lot easier than it did in the past few days.  Did you see it the same way?  Was it playing a little easier today?

DAVID DUVAL:  I don't know.  I think it's a hard golf course.   That's a difficult question to answer.  I feel with the people you have here playing, these players, these 30 guys played better than everybody else this year. It doesn't matter where you put them; if they're playing well and making putts, every golf course is going to play  easy to them.  I think it's hard to compare day-to-day like that.  It seemed maybe to play a little shorter.  Now that we got a little more rain, it will probably lengthen back up to what it was on Monday and Tuesday.


Q.  Have you noticed anybody treating you any differently now that you've won twice, either players or fans or anything?

DAVID DUVAL:  No, I haven't really noticed.  I still do my thing and try to get prepared to play.  I haven't really noticed.


Q.  Has there been a change in any aspect of your game that helped you get over the hump and start winning consecutively?

DAVID DUVAL:  No.  I've been asked that a lot.  I wish -- I do wish -- I wish I knew there was a secret formula, secret answer.  Certainly if there was and I knew it, I wouldn't tell (laughter).  But there's not.  It boils down to hard work, preparation, making a few putts when you need to, getting a few bounces when you need to, all of a sudden you're on top.  There's not a big difference from first to second. The best I can relate it is, you know, I got one heck of a break at Disney on 17.  I didn't even realize I hit my tee shot into a tree, but I saw on the replay it was.  Instead  of kicking into the rough or into the water, it kicked into the fairway, I made a birdie.  That's the difference, you know.


Q.  In the past, it would have kicked the other way?

DAVID DUVAL:  Exactly, or it would have dropped straight down and I would have had a difficult shot just to get it onto the green.


Q.  Was No. 1 another example of that today?

DAVID DUVAL:  Exactly.  I got a heck of a break on 1.  Certainly everybody gets them.  Horrible shot really. Somehow it kicked into the fairway, I made par.  You know, I don't even know what's over there.  I'm looking at making five or six probably if it goes straight through.  Those are the things you need.


Q.  David, is one thing that you're doing well lately responding to bogeys like 8 and 9 after the 3-putt on 7? You did that a couple times at Disney.  Are you shaking off a bogey here and there and coming right back with something to answer?

DAVID DUVAL:  I think, yes, I'm doing that well, but I think that's because maybe a little confidence.  I don't know.  It doesn't faze you, you know.  I've been better at accepting my poor shots or putts.  I just hit a horrible putt on 17, that second putt.  As soon as I hit it, I knew it wasn't going in.  The thing that really helps is just what you said, I birdied the very next hole, so I'm back where I was.  I've lost a hole, but I haven't lost any ground, I made it right back up.  That as much as anything keeps rounds going and gives you the confidence to maybe even go a little more.


Q.  Talk about 9 and why you think that hole was playing so well today?

DAVID DUVAL:  Why what?


Q.  Why there were so many under par holes?

DAVID DUVAL:  I don't know what everybody else hit, I hit a driver and 4-iron on the green.  You expect to make a birdie on a par 5 when you're hitting a 4-iron up.


Q.  How far were you?  Where were you on the green?

DAVID DUVAL:  I was about, I don't know, 20 feet, 22 feet.


Q.  Right.

DAVID DUVAL:  Yes.

DAVID DUVAL:  Was downwind, across.  You hit it out left, the wind is going to blow it right back in the fairway.


Q.  How far were you?

DAVID DUVAL:  You can run it up if you have a longer club, stop it if you have a middle iron. 


Q.  How far was your 4-iron?

DAVID DUVAL:  214 yards.


Q.  Given the nature of golf as you've described it, how do you approach tomorrow's round, Saturday's round, Sunday's round?  If you know these odd things are out there, just a matter of whether they happen to you or not?

DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah.  I don't know.  I think the best way is just go play.  You know if you're playing well, you're going to make some birdies, more than likely you're going to make some bogeys, especially playing Bermuda rough like they have here.  You just try to limit your mistakes.  When you have a club in your hand you feel good with, feel you can get aggressive, you do.  When you feel a little shaky, you back off, give yourself a 30-, 40-footer, get down the tube from there.  I think it boils down to kind of just taking the good with the bad; what goes your way, what doesn't.  You know as a player that everything is not going to go your way.  You just try to make the best of each situation.


Q.  Do you feel as though you're in a period of your season where things are going your way?

DAVID DUVAL:  I feel they are certainly going my way better than they have for most of the year.  I don't feel as if I had played particularly well up really through the PGA.  I think at the same time when you're not playing  well, you don't see the good things that are happening,  you only see the bad things.  As you start to play better, you see the good breaks you get and you realize you got it and you try to capitalize on it.  You just go with it.  I don't know.  It's a silly game.  A lot of weird things happen.  A lot of crazy things happen.  A lot of great things happen as well.  You know, the thing I've always thought about, you never know when you're going to make a 50- or 60-foot putt. Like I did at Disney, you might just hit a pretty poor iron shot and have a putt that you're facing that you got basically no chance of even getting down, and all of a sudden might just go in.  I think you just got to kind of keep that in the forefront and realize that something crazy could happen at any time, and all of a sudden things could change.


Q.  David, Golf is a Game of Confidence, the book, does that title mean more to you now than it did a month ago?

DAVID DUVAL:  No.  It means the same.  I think you always have to be confident and feel good about what you're doing, really kind of believe in yourself.  Even when you make bad decisions, believe that that is what you had to do, made the best choice, and it was wrong.  Especially I think with the players out here, they're unbelievably talented.  I think it would be silly to  question yourself.  Everybody is going to make bad choices. There's no reason to start questioning yourself because that might feed back into everything else and really wreck the game.


Q.  What about your confidence now versus a month ago?

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I do feel better about it all. I'm certainly playing better than I have all year.  I think it's just the nature of game; it feeds on itself.  You just try to ride it out as best you can.


Q.  David, have you had time to digest this World Tour stuff?  What do you make of it?  Do you like it?  Do you think it's a lot?

DAVID DUVAL:  I haven't thought about it a whole lot, to be honest with you.  I think it's something that the players wanted, the fans wanted to see, the game needed. You know, that's a little ways down the road.  You deal with it, participate if your eligible when the time comes.


Q.  Remainder of this week, is there anything you could tell us, things that you look for or expect?

DAVID DUVAL:  I'm sorry?


Q.  Expect the unexpected?

DAVID DUVAL:  Probably (laughter).  I think it happens more so on this type of golf course.  What I mean by that, with the grass out here, the Bermuda, crazy things happen, you know.  You might hit a 9-iron 120 yards out, next time you might hit it 180 yards. I don't know.  I would expect to see a lot of good scores, you know.  That might not mean more 66's.  It might mean more 70's.  I don't know.

DAVID DUVAL:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT