THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 29, 1996
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  P>


 DAVID DUVAL: Well, it has gone good.  You know, like I said,
out there I didn't know what to expect.  I was just happy to be
able to play; especially after having the problem with my shoulder
and arm, and with Augusta coming up, I mean, Atlanta, I just wanted
to play some competitive rounds, and I am a little -- I am a little
further along as far as crispness in my game than I thought I
might be at this point, having basically an entire off-season
again.

 WES SEELEY: Why don't you take us around this round.  Start
with the 10th.

 DAVID DUVAL: Did you want --

 WES SEELEY: Birdies and bogeys.

 DAVID DUVAL: I made birdie on 10.  I hit a 7-iron about -- to
about four feet out of the left  fairway bunker, and I birdied
12 with a pitching wedge to about eight or ten feet.  3-putted
13.

 WES SEELEY: From how far?

 DAVID DUVAL: Oh, 40 feet.  I eagled 16.  I hit a driver off the
tee and then 2-iron just onto the back fringe, up near the cut
of the rough.  Kind of hit a little bump-and-run shot with a 5-iron.
 It went in.

 WES SEELEY: How far was that about?

 DAVID DUVAL: Not more than 20, 22 feet from the hole.  I was
kind of right behind the hole.  I birdied 1 and sand wedged to
about eight, ten feet.

 WES SEELEY: Was it one or two?

 DAVID DUVAL: I am sorry, two.  Sand wedge to about ten feet.
 I birdied 4 with a sand wedge to about four feet.  I bogeyed
five.  I missed the green to the right with a 4-iron and pitched
to about eight feet and missed the putt.  I birdied 6 with a wedge
to about 15 feet, twelve feet.  Then I birdied eight.  I hit a
3-iron; made it about, I don't know, 50 feet, maybe. 50-footer,
something like that.

 WES SEELEY: Okay.  Questions.


 Q.   David, I wonder if there is anything that is  working
well this week that you kind of felt was coming along about your
game before you got hurt?  Is there anything that is kind of like
-- did you pick up any progression of things from earlier this
year?

 DAVID DUVAL: No.  Everything seems to be generally better right
now than it was in the beginning.  I have driven the ball really
well for two days now, and I feel like I have putted quite well
also.  That was -- especially -- I drove the ball pretty well
out west, and I just didn't make a whole lot of putts.  I felt
like I was rolling it pretty good, but they seemed to have gone
in the last two days.

 Q.   On 8 what did you -- was the idea to get it close or
did you see something you liked as far as the break?

 DAVID DUVAL: No.  I just kind of guessed and -- I mean, it was,
you know, it was so far off, I was just hoping, with a big slope,
just try to get a good pace on it; get it down pretty close to
the hole so you don't have to sweat over another one.  But it
just -- I think I got the line right -- I don't know if the pace
was quite right, it still went in.  I think it would have rolled
four, five feet by.  From there, not too bad. 

 Q.   You were having a disciplining Friday last year, and
there were a lot of expectations on you. What is different about
this year as far as the expectations?

 DAVID DUVAL: I think -- I would think a lot of it would be that
there weren't a whole lot of expectations after having to sit
down with a little injury; especially because there was kind of
nothing to compare it to coming into here as far as playing --
whether I was playing well last year, I was playing real well
coming into here this year.  This year I haven't been able to
play much at all.  So I think some of the expectations were just
not there.

 Q.   Talk about the injury a little bit.  What did you do
and --

 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know.  It kind of went as quickly as it
came.  I was having some pain, and I was told after visiting the
Mayo, and the doctor there, Mark Broderson, said it was Tendinitis.
 I went through an M.R.I.  That is kind of sketchy.  But you know,
I don't know what happened.  It just -- I don't know why it came
up, and I don't know why it left.  I did a lot of stretching and
exercise with water, but I played -- hit some balls and played
the weekend before in New Orleans, and I was planning on going
to New Orleans and  just couldn't do it.  Then I woke up Monday
morning of New Orleans and felt fine.  So, you know, I don't know
why it left, and I don't know why it came.  I am not an expert
at all on that.  And I was just -- I think I was just -- I was
lucky.

 Q.   Left shoulder?

 DAVID DUVAL: Right -- correct. (AUDIENCE LAUGHTER.)

 Q.   When did you first start noticing the pain in the shoulder?

 DAVID DUVAL: Probably the week before I went out west to start
the TOUR.  I had to quit one day playing with my father, and I
think maybe one or two other people, but out west it was there.
 I noticed it.  But it wasn't anything that was ever unbearable.
And then when we came back east, I had Doral -- probably the week
before it was bothering me; especially when I got back.  I was
going fishing.  I thought it would probably cure it.  I got to
Doral and it just got too bad, and I had to walk off the golf
course.  I have never done that.  I had never had to withdraw
from a golf tournament before it started or after.  I had to do
it.  I didn't want to.  I was thinking of this tournament and
the next few coming up, Augusta, that I want to make sure I didn't
hurt myself  anymore.

 Q.   I think we read a quote earlier this week from you saying
that -- about the first-time winners, saying anybody who is surprised
doesn't know anything about golf.  What did you mean by that?

 DAVID DUVAL: Well, that is not exactly what I said.  What I said
was anybody who is surprised doesn't follow professional golf
a whole lot.  They are not -- because I think if you ask any of
the players out here, I don't think they are surprised.  I don't
know what their responses have been, but with such tours as NIKE
and HOOTERS TOURS, and then the qualifying tournament itself,
the mental toughness that you need to gain to win tournaments
is given to you through routes through the PGA TOUR.  I think
I had said something to the effect that Scott winning last week
was probably a walk in the park compared to having to shoot 129
all weekend at Vegas to keep his card, so I think that you know,
I don't think players are surprised.  I think it is just that
everybody knows the big names a lot more than they know the bottom
half of names and the players themselves aren't ever surprised
to see another player win.

 Q.   The fields haven't been too shabby, at least, not at
Bay Hill -- 

 DAVID DUVAL: That is my point.  I mean, you know, they can play
and I don't see why-- I wasn't surprised.  I know Tim Herron,
Paul Goydos, and I know Scott and I played with Tim more than
the other two and I have watched him do it before.

 Q.   Does this change make you hungrier to see those guys
coming through and you are still scratchy?

 DAVID DUVAL: Well, maybe a little bit.  I am happy for them as
much as anything.  I feel like my time will come.  It is not something
that I am trying to rush.  But I feel like it will come, but with
those guys I was just tickled to death to see them win because
they are all friends of mine.

 Q.   Is this the first time you had an injury, a serious injury
that kept you from playing?

 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, it is.

 Q.   Was it scary?

 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah it was.  It was very.  I didn't know -- especially
not knowing exactly what the problem was you know, a lot of stuff
goes through your mind.

 Q.   David, growing up here, was this a dream to try to win
this tournament?  I mean, is that something you ever thought about
when you were younger?

 DAVID DUVAL: On many occasions, yeah.  This  is the event that
I got to come out and watch as a kid and so I was familiar with
this event as other players might have been with some around their
home towns. Where I chased players trying to get autographs myself.
 So I have watched it for years and years and years now and I
was just -- had always wanted to participate in the event and
I think as far as personally important, it is up there with a
lot of them.

 Q.   David, I think Lenny Mattiace said something a couple
of weeks ago that he noticed a lot of guys when they go to events,
other spots on the TOUR that is in somebody's hometown, that they
feel a certain amount of pressure or feel certain amount of expectations
so it is not unusual for this to occur for somebody to win an
event in their hometown?

 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know.  I am not as aware of that as Lenny
might be.  I feel like there is a bit more of attention probably
just because it is your hometown and I think winning a tournament
in your hometown probably be a bit more difficult than on the
road somewhere.  The expectations are high, but a lot of the players
play with us every week irregardless of where they are, Norman
and Price and Couples, they are expected to win all the time and
that just doesn't  work.  It just doesn't happen that way out
here.

 Q.   What were some of the most cherished autographs you had
gotten as a kid?

 DAVID DUVAL: All the big guys that I am competing with now, Norman
and Couples, Seve.  It is just -- it was fun watching them and
kind of looking up to them and following them practice days; watched
them on the range.

 Q.   Do you have any local knowledge on this course?

 DAVID DUVAL: I probably have more than most of the TOUR rookies,
but I have far less than the veterans; especially in tournament
conditions, I haven't seen the golf course, but for four rounds
in tournament conditions; whereas, guys like who have been playing
here for 10, 15 years have seen it play in all kind of weather;
all kind of firmness and fastness.  I remember up in Atlanta when
I was playing so well as an amateur, they said a lot of local
knowledge I had was an advantage.  I think Tom Kite was playing
that tournament for 20 years and he probably played 2, 300 rounds
on it and I think I played 10.  It is kind of like around here
I might have played 50 rounds on this golf course; whereas, the
other guys who have been here so long might have played at least
100. 

 Q.   Didn't you play real well as a marker here one time?
 You were marking -- I can't remember who it was with.

 DAVID DUVAL: With Joey Sindelar.  Played five holes and then
Scott Hoch withdrew and Greg Norman moved up to play with Joey.
 I wouldn't say I played well.  I was 1-under-par.  I think I
probably had five putts so far five holes.

 Q.   You were how old then?

 DAVID DUVAL: I think I was a freshman in college, so I was 18.

 WES SEELEY: Anything else?


 End of FastScripts.....       

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT