JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 8, 2010
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What did you think of the story when you came out of the trailer? You guys want to talk about whose round?
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah. Someone else.

 Q. You had 67 today, pretty nicely done. Just the one bogey. Pretty well played. 
 DAVID DUVAL: Played pretty well. Nothing great. I wasn't super sharp, but all in all, hit the ball mostly solid and made a couple putts.

 Q. Now, that other guy that shot the 59 had it in before you even teed it up, I think. 
 DAVID DUVAL: Right.

 Q. What did you think?
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, it's a really neat thing to do. The score is kind of the golden egg really, and you know, it's obviously not done often. 
 And really, you know, people I don't think realize it, but 60 is not shot often either. I think there's maybe been 10 or 12 of those. So to get a goal like that, know where you stand and stuff and finish it off is an amazing thing.

 Q. Paul told me standing over that 7-footer was the toughest, most nervous he had ever been over any putt. Did that bring back any memories of you standing over that long putt in Palm Springs to shoot 59?
 DAVID DUVAL: Mine was about the same distance, probably, seven or eight feet. I don't remember being nervous. The thoughts more than anything rolling through my head were that, to read the putt and get my read and be decisive about it and not question it.

 Q. You were winning the tournament, though. You know, his is on Thursday. 
 DAVID DUVAL: Sure.

 Q. Makes a difference, doesn't it?
 DAVID DUVAL: You know, I don't know. To me at that instant making that putt was more important to me than winning the golf tournament, frankly. 
 I felt like -- I think two times before that I felt like I should have shot 59 and hadn't, so I felt like this might be my best shot at it, so that was more important to me at the time.

 Q. It really is hard to do. A lot of guys have had good runs at it early in the round and even 14, 15 holes deep. It's hard to finish it off, isn't it?
 DAVID DUVAL: It's hard to finish it off, yeah. You know, I don't know -- I know he birdied the last hole.

 Q. 16, 17, 18. 
 DAVID DUVAL: 16, 17 -- yeah, you know. That, I think, wow, that's pretty cool, you know, because it's not like he kind of was -- he knew he had to birdie all of those at that point. 
 So you know, again, you have to hit the shots and you have to make the putts. So regardless of when it's done, where it's done, who does it, it's amazing it.

 Q. It is indeed. Good luck to you. Hey, it's out there. Good luck, go get it tomorrow morning. Do you remember where you finished, at the Hope? What were your last four holes? Did you have a par at 17?
 DAVID DUVAL: Par at 17, I birdied 16. I birdied 15 and eagled 18. 

 Q. And you were focused on a 59?
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, not so much -- no. You're -- no. 

 Q. Not to start the day; right?
 DAVID DUVAL: Not to start the day. Not during the round. Over the last putt I was more -- on the last hole, yes, I was more focused on that than anything because all of a sudden I had an 8-footer to do it. 
 So I knew -- you know, I knew I might get into a playoff. I could possibly win the golf tournament, but you know, I don't know had I been in a playoff how well I would have done, so I was fortunate that I didn't have to be in a playoff.

 Q. What's it like to be in that fraternity, four guys in it?
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah. You know, it's an incredible thing. It's a little piece of golf history, for sure. You know, but mine's, what, 11 years ago at this point. I frankly don't think about it a whole lot. It was one of those days everything went right. 
 I'm anxious to see the day, if it can be done, I think the magic number at this point is minus 14. I don't mean 58 score. I mean minus 14. Get somewhere -- what would that be 57 out here, 58 on a par 70. I think that's kind of the magic number now to see if somebody could ever do that.

 Q. We tend to not think too much about 58 being put up because it's across the pond. Nobody really knows. 
 DAVID DUVAL: Right. Well, again, doing the scores is an amazing thing. Just breaking 60. 
 But yeah, you know, I don't know what that golf course is like. I know this is, you know, a bit of a challenging golf course. I think one way if you're trying to look at how those scores stack up, I think the easiest way is to compare them to the rest of the field through that day. 
 One of the greatest rounds of golf I remember was on the Nike Tour the Moors Golf Course over in Pensacola in '94, Ron Philo I think shot 61 or 2 the first round and was seven ahead.

 Q. Philo?
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah. Ron Philo, Jr. I mean that's, to me to beat the field on a given day by seven strokes is about as good as it gets.

 Q. You've got British Open; you've been No. 1. Where does a 59 stand on your resume?
 DAVID DUVAL: It's in there somewhere with Ryder Cups and Vardon Trophy and things like that. So it's in there somewhere.

 Q. Is 58 inevitable?
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't think inevitable is the word, but you know, I think that -- again, I don't know. I just think --

 Q. 14-under. 
 DAVID DUVAL: I think that would be a neat thing to see if it could ever be done. 
 Don't get me wrong. You know, you're playing a golf course here, people might argue that it's only 12-under. Yeah, but it's par 71. You're messing up a par-5 that typically people make up strokes on. 
 That's why I say the score is the score, period, regardless of where you're playing. And even if you're playing from the front tees, you still gotta hit it up there near the hole somewhere and you gotta make a bunch of putts. So accomplishing that, regardless of what's in front of you, is an amazing feat.

 Q. Do you feel like pointing out that your 59 was on Sunday?
 DAVID DUVAL: I hadn't really thought about that. I -- again, I don't know if the -- I don't know if you could say the golf course is set up harder on Sunday or they play easier. 
 I don't know how I compare day to day like that, and I don't really know how you could frankly compare what he did today to what I did 11 years ago. That's -- you know, I think in some ways you belittle the accomplishment by doing that. 
 It's breaking 60, which is an amazing thing. We've seen it four times on the PGA TOUR now, and how many -- I don't know how many -- we've hit millions of rounds at this point, probably.

 Q. But you gotta say something -- to be able to close it like that, it's gotta be a thrill to do that. 
 DAVID DUVAL: Again, I don't know if you're trying to get me to say something -- well, Steve Petty damn near did, you know. And you know, it's not like -- I had a run where I shot 5-under. I made three straight birdies, and that's what got me in the tournament. 
 So you know, it was a weird thing that happened for me that day because I got myself back in the tournament being I think I was six back starting the round, or seven back. So at that point from, you know, holes 13 through 15, 16 or so, I'm kind of thinking, I need to make some birdies to have a chance to win this golf tournament, and then all of a sudden I hit it down the middle of the fairway. Now I'm thinking heck with that, I gotta break 60 today. 
 You know, so things kind of -- focus kind of changed for me in a way because I wasn't thinking about winning the golf tournament at the start of the day. I was so far back. I hadn't made any putts all week and really didn't make any putts on Sunday. It was one of those funny things.

 Q. What's harder, 59 or following 59?
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, it was Sunday, so I didn't have to play again for four days. And I do remember next time I played 18 I made another eagle. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT