AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 14, 2010
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: We'd like to welcome David Duval into the interview room here at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. If you would start off and make some comments about your round today, and then we'll take questions.  
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I feel like I played really well today. Hit the ball good. It was a little harder out there today. I don't know if it was the wind change or what, and maybe playing it down and the ball moving around a little bit more than it would normally.  
 So in general, I feel like I did most of the things I want to do today. Couple that bounced pretty bad that I wish hadn't. I'm sure everybody has a few of those.   
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Questions.   
  
  Q. Are you more encouraged or disappointed?   
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I don't know. I don't really know, because I certainly did not think that if I shot 69 today I would have a chance to win the golf tournament. I expected that I would probably have to shoot, at worst, like a 6-under par and get myself up to 18-under where the leaders started to even have any chance.  
 So I don't think I thought a whole a lot about that. I'm happy with how I played. As the round progressed, obviously seeing it was tough to get it close to the hole and tough to make putts, I knew I was putting together a pretty decent score.  
 Again, still, I would not have expected a 69 to be enough to come back from six strokes.  
  
  Q. I was following you on the golf course for a time today at the closing holes, 16, 17, and 18. The first thing I really noticed was the fan support. Everybody really strongly backing you. What's that feel like to have when you're coming down that stretch?   
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, it's important. It's a nice thing. I'm very appreciative of it and very cognizant of it. I just believe -- my guess is that with where I've been and what I've gone through, I think that the fact that - at least I feel like I've kept my head high through it all and acted like a professional and haven't quit - I think that people -- I think that if anything, that tends to endear you with fans.  
  
  Q. How does your schedule shape up for the rest of the year? How many more events are you gonna play?  
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I don't know exactly. I'm playing in Mexico next week. Playing at the Honda and Transitions, be at the Masters.   
 You know, after that, I haven't really looked a whole lot after that. I've gotten a fairly good reception, I think, from the tournaments when I've asked for spots. As a guy who's played a long time and is in a position that I was unfamiliar with as far as asking for spots, I take a little pride in maybe showing that, Hey, I was worth giving the spot to by having a good week and performing.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like you had some momentum on the front nine? You had a pretty nice shot on 5 and also 6, too.   
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. I didn't think of it that way. If I did, soon as that putt bounced four inches to the right on 6, that momentum was gone.   
 Again, somewhat difficult conditions, and just trying to make a few birdies and minimize mistakes. For the most part, I managed to do that.  
  
  Q. How do you think your game held up on the back nine on Sunday?   
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I don't know. What did I shoot on the back? I don't know. I mean, 34, so, you know, I mean, my point being I feel like it held up good. I hit the ball pretty much where I was trying to. Kind of pulled it off the 14th tee and got in a bit of a bad spot and made the hole very difficult and then I had a very hard putt from 50 feet or so and I 3-putted.  
 But, you know, that's kind of more of a question that you have to answer really. How do you think I did?   
  
  Q. How is the back nine on a Sunday different than the first three rounds as far as nerves and everything like that?  
 DAVID DUVAL: Oh, I was fine. I felt fine. You know, I've lived it at the top for a long time and I was in a position where I won a lot of golf tournaments. That certainly has helped me.   
 More than that, with what I've gone through and how I've had some struggles, that's even more important to me. I'm not getting worked up over having a chance to win. Really kind of figured out it doesn't have a whole a lot with how I'm trying to play golf and how I'm trying to play each hole and such. I was not nervous in the least.   
 So I just felt like I was doing what I should be doing, and I felt like I was where I should be.   
  
  Q. You were talking in the back that the game, you were playing better than your results because putts weren't dropping. On Wednesday afternoon, just to use a date, would you have been pleased to be putting for a chance to win this tournament on Sunday afternoon?  
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, of course. You know, that's -- I would have rather, you know, had an opportunity to four-putt and still win, but... (laughter.) At least three-putt, you know, with the bumpy greens.  
 Yeah, any time standing on the last hole with a chance to maybe get in the playoff or win a golf tournament, you have to look at it as a successful, competitive week. Period.   
  
  Q. With all you've been through, is that why it's easier to be in this position, because it was so difficult for so long? Or are you referring to the fact that you recall being up there contending?  
 DAVID DUVAL: Both. I'm saying both reasons. And maybe more importantly because of the bad part, not the up part. So that's a little harder than playing great and having a chance to win.   
  
  Q. But because there haven't been that many times...   
 DAVID DUVAL: Haven't been many what many times?   
  
  Q. That you've been this close after all you've been through. I guess there would be a feeling, Hey, it's been a while. Are you gonna be nervous? You seem to say that all that stuff emboldened you when you're in this position?  
 DAVID DUVAL: I think so. You know, in the end, I kind of see it as this is what I do, and I'm pretty good at what I do. I've had some struggles for a while, long while, and I feel like I'm kind of getting back on top of everything how I want to. This is what I expect of myself. I expect to play well.   
 With that said, that doesn't mean, you know, you're gonna have a chance to win every week. But to expect to be in control most of the time with what you're trying to do.   
 So, um, for some reason I was blessed and I was given a gift. I had some struggles with it, but I feel like I'm pretty good at it still. It's what I certainly want to do.   
 I'm just gonna go, you know, try to hit a lot of fairways in Mexico next week and hit a lot of greens. It's really a simple recipe. Successful golf is a very simple recipe. I will try to do that again next week.   
 MARK STEVENS: Thank you very much, David. Good luck next week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT