CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 13, 2009
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What's your feeling about missing the cut today?
 DAVID DUVAL: I feel that the overall picture of the year, I feel like it was mostly successful. 
 You know, I talked a lot early on in the year about coming back, building the confidence back that I had for so long, and I feel like for the most part I did that. 
 But No. 1 goal I made for myself for the year I all but did, win the U. S. Open, you know, in terms of qualifying, get in. Certainly proved myself okay there. 
 I'm not real pleased about not finishing in the 125, you know, but when it comes down to one week, and frankly, it's not a position you should be in, any player. You have the whole year. It's not a position you want to be in. It's not fun, but really, I haven't been focusing on it a whole lot. 
 I feel that I'll have a whole year next year, and really, somewhere around probably PGA, I think it was the PGA, somewhere around there was when I really kind of started to look forward to next year. 
 So I'm excited about everything I'm doing. I'm happy with it. But I want to start with 0, start even, not feel like I'm behind the eight ball. So that's what I'm looking forward to. 

 Q. I know it's fresh, but are you going to think about going to Q-School, are you going to go? Do you know that?
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. Not certain when it is, first of all. I think it's in December, first couple weeks maybe. And then -- you know, I would probably -- if you were going to bet, I'd probably not plan on going. 
 You know, I've played long enough, I'd like to think that the relationships I've built up for 14, 15 years out here with the events I go to year in and year out would show me a little love if I need it. 
 And you know, it's difficult now for me. I think that being married, and my kids, it's tough to take off for what needs to be 10, 11 days probably, 10, 11, 12-day trip in an off season when you're looking forward to being home.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT