BUICK OPEN
August 1, 2009
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you talk about your back nine? You really had a good stretch going there, didn't you?  
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah. I hit the ball pretty well on the front and didn't get a whole lot out of it. And then made the turn, made a bogey on the 11th hole, hit a bad tee shot on the par-3 and knew that I needed to pick up a couple on the next three holes and turned it into five straight, and turned what was going to be a decent day into a good day.   
  
  Q. How were the conditions out there? How was the wind?  
 DAVID DUVAL: It was a lot.   
  
  Q. And you mentioned you wanted to say something to the Buick?  
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, to Buick and to Warwick Hills and its members and the folks out here. I kind of felt like a few weeks ago that it could be the last time Buick's involved here. I didn't know if it would be, and you know, I think it's rare that you get a situation where you have a tournament for 50-plus year at a site.   
 After a little while, people are kind of -- membership is kind of like we've kind of had enough and let's get our golf course back, and especially when you get north like this. I mean you get to play like 6 months a year, and to lose it for a week, two weeks, it's not the easiest thing to swallow. And the support here has been through the crowd, through the golf course. I just felt like just on the off chance it's the last one, I felt like I needed to be here.   
  
  Q. Wasn't that (indiscernible) people of this area?  
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, it was just mostly a thanks, and the only way I could say thanks was by coming, frankly. You can't really go around to everybody, but just by coming and showing up and trying to perform well is the thank you I'm trying to say and appreciate everything they've done for us.   
  
  Q. I know this is a job for you, but do you still get a thrill out of five straight birdies?  
 DAVID DUVAL: Oh, absolutely. Ironically, in the first round we were talking about somebody told me how Calc had made nine straight last week, and they asked me, they said, you've probably made eight. I said, I haven't made eight. I don't even know if I've made seven. I said I think I've made six, but I'm not certain, so I wanted to make the putt on 17, just in case, but yeah, as a golfer, yeah, any time you do that, I mean it's a rare thing to see five straight.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah. After I putted the ball.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 DAVID DUVAL: No. The ball had moved, and it was a penalty stroke.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible).   
 DAVID DUVAL: Right. Yeah. I saw in the middle of the score, until I told them I made sure on seven. I was like, just so you know, I made par back on the second hole with the penalty stroke.   
  
  Q. Did you feel like a little redemption after that happening in the round?  
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah. You just kind of hope you can get it back somewhere, you know. To draw a penalty stroke off of no fault of your own, it's hard to swallow, but you know what, that's, I think frankly, what separates this game from everything else. It's not about what you can get away with. It's about policing ourselves and playing with integrity, and you know, that's just what you do.   
 I know people sometimes act surprised because a lot of situations like that nobody sees it except the player, and that's just what we do. That's what we grew up with, and I don't think you'll come across a player who would address a putt like I did and the ball moved and not take one.   
  
  Q. Your story's been well documented. Can you talk about where you are in your career and how you feel like you're doing now?  
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I don't know where I am in my career. I'm excited to play golf. I feel like I'm controlling the golf ball like I want to, like I expect to, frankly.   
 A lot was made at Bethpage. I walked away as much disappointed as I was happy and pleased with how I played. But you know, then I played a couple times, and I just didn't click. Just things weren't quite clicking, not like I played poorly. I hit the ball pretty decent. Just didn't get anything out of it, and I came here, brought my 16-year-old son to caddie for me, and felt like I really need to pay attention and kind of be a little more patient than I was two weeks after the U.S. Open and finish out this year well.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT