VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 15, 2009
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. David, got to the point where you had pretty much all eyes on you on coverage. And I don't know if you sensed it, but you were a shot off the lead at a moment. How would you assess your round here?  
 DAVID DUVAL: Played okay. I played about like I did yesterday, nothing great, but good.   
 Really -- I'm trying to think back to too many shots I missed, which weren't many, if I did. Making a 6 on 11. Didn't hit that bad of a tee shot, just went a little bit left and it was unplayable. Had a pretty simple bump-and-run on 13, hit a bad chip shot there and made a bogey, but other than that, there was only two shots that I would look back and say I'm 1-over.   
  
  Q. As far as last year or so, how is your confidence right now with your golf?  
 DAVID DUVAL: My confidence is catching up with how good my golf game is. You know, I feel like somewhere late on the West Coast is where I really started feeling 100 percent comfortable again. And really was lacking any confidence, and you know, didn't have anything to draw on either.   
 So but now, a lot more comfortable, have a lot of good shots to draw on, memory wise, and I'm starting to remember all the good ones and no bad ones. And I'm feeling comfortable, and all of the sudden my confidence is getting better.   
  
  Q. The weekend, you'll be five, six shots off the lead, depending on how it goes. Does your game plan adjust knowing you have to catch up?  
 DAVID DUVAL: Not really, because I feel like the way I've approached this golf course every year I've played is a pretty good way. That's the way I found I can play, which involves, you know, trying to get the ball in play and get it in the right areas of the greens because the greens are firm. We tend to have a good deal of wind, and it's hard to get too aggressive. You have to count on making a few putts.  
 But for me it's a matter of getting the ball around the golf course in the right spots, and that translates to a lot of 3-woods, a lot of 4-woods off tees and work from there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT