THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2006
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Other than one shot at the 13th    other than the one shot at the 3rd you played flawlessly, didn't you?
DAVID DUVAL:  I hit most every fairway, most every green, just didn't get the putts to fall.  Probably four or five putts that had a good chance to go in but didn't go in.  Just one shot on 3 where I got ahead of it and kind of hit the ball right    hit it right.
Q.  You obviously knew the out of bounds was there.  Do you have any view on that?
DAVID DUVAL:  It is what it is.  It's there and you know it at the start of the week, there's no point in complaining about it.
Q.  Is there some sort of intimidation factor going on this weekend with some players with Tiger out as quickly as he has    do you have any view on that?
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't think so, but I can't speak for anybody other than myself.

I'm playing really well.  I'm 4 under.  I don't know if I've played well enough to be 12 under, but I've played it well enough to be 8 , 9  or 10 under.  I've just gotten very little out of it, but I've played really well.  I'd be pleased if I could play as well the next couple of days as I have the first two.  All I need to do is make a couple of putts and I could put up some good scores.
Q.  Is this as good a 36 holes as you've had in some time?
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't know.  I've had a lot of good play where I just haven't gotten much out of it.  I played well at Winged Foot.  I played well last week.  But up until Sunday, but other than that, I don't know how to answer that.
Q.  Do you feel the pieces of the jigsaw are coming together?
DAVID DUVAL:  As I've said for many months, I'm playing well.  I really don't know how else to answer that question.
Q.  What do you think the difference would have to be either in your mind or in your game to be regarded as a contender again as opposed to someone playing better and better?
DAVID DUVAL:  Probably simply score a bit better, make some putts to be a little higher on the leaderboard.  I can assure you, as you saw all day, nobody hit the golf ball better all day.  You make a few putts, maybe get a little closer to the hole on some greens.  You can't control the ball better than I did today.  I just have to try to continue to score as best I can.
Q.  You'll probably be top 20 at the end of the day, but you'll probably be eight shots back of Tiger.  How do you attack the weekend like that?
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't imagine the golf course will be any softer than it is now.  It would be my guess they'll try to keep it like it is, maybe a little bit harder.

Being as that is, attacking is not something that you can really do.  It's like attacking at the U.S. Open.  You have to hole 15 , 18 foot putts and eliminate mistakes.  You simply can't hit the ball close to a lot of the holes where the pins are being put unless you get an amazingly good break off what is probably a poor shot.  A lot of holes you can't get any closer than maybe 12 or 15 feet.
Q.  Do you like this kind of course?  Is it fun?
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, as it stands.  I tried to play Monday afternoon when I just got in.  I was pretty tired, but by Wednesday afternoon it was bordering on [unfair].  I certainly enjoy the way it is playing right now.
Q.  Every week you go out, you get asked the same question over and over again, is it starting to dissipate?
DAVID DUVAL:  Not really, because the questions come from local, rather than national media people.  So for them these are questions they haven't asked.  It will be nice when that's over.  It will mean that I'm playing as I expected.
Q.  You used to look a bit more chiseled, but now you look a little bit more
DAVID DUVAL:  Rounded?
Q.  Is that a reflection of contentment and happiness in your life?
DAVID DUVAL:  Probably some of that, but also, as much as anything, two and a half years ago I think it was, I was in Japan playing, my back, everything was hurting.  I just felt I had to stop working out at the time.  I have not gotten back as far into the intensity levels that I may have had, but I can do some.  Other than that, I've been working on hitting the ball.  I do a little bit of stuff.
Q.  Any back trouble now?
DAVID DUVAL:  It comes and goes.  This year there have been two or three occasions when I could barely move or swing.
Q.  Can you deal with it pretty quickly or do you have to take a bit of a layoff?
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I found some folks who can fix me up back in Colorado.  So hopefully everything hangs in there the next couple of days.  I'm feeling good.  I'm fine.  It could be some crazy thing like lifting a piece of luggage or wrapping the cord around a vacuum cleaner, little things like that.
Q.  Anybody traveling with you this week?
DAVID DUVAL:  My oldest boy Dino, he's 16.
Q.  What's it been like for him?
DAVID DUVAL:  He came last year, too, with his other brother.  They have a ball.  He enjoys it.  He walked right next to us in the practice rounds and got to see all the craziness of it.
Q.  A couple of questions about your round.
DAVID DUVAL:  On the 16th, second shot, I kind of skanked it, tried to hit a 4 iron a little bit firm.
Q.  The shot on the last, is that just not a shot that suits your eye?
DAVID DUVAL:  You know, I think it might have been a bit of residue from the 3rd hole.  Honestly I'm not going to make that mistake.  Next time I'm going to make sure I hit it and it goes left.
Q.  Is that a logo on your shirt?  I think it's a Tiger Woods shirt.
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, what do you know?


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT