JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 12, 2006
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about being back and maybe getting your game back a little bit.
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I'm here because I like being here. I like the golf course.  Folks they seem that much more excited for the players to be here.  When you've been doing it a long time it's nice to go to venues where everyone is real excited to have a tournament.
Q.  Do folks appreciate you a little bit more?
DAVID DUVAL:  You know, it seems that the tournaments that have had tough dates at times, haven's drawn the fields historically, and I think any time the players come and add it to their schedule, it's more appreciated than expected.
Q.  The Pro Am, I saw you were helping some of the guys out here.  When you came out of college everybody thought you were too competitive and would not get involved as much in something like this.  Have you changed your approach in the Pro-Am?
DAVID DUVAL:  You know, I don't know.  The problem, you come out of college, like anybody, any athlete in any sport, you're a kid still, you're immature.  You haven't grown up. I don't know if it's that I've changed or that I have grown into a different person, married, family, children, so I am not the same person I was 13, 14 years ago.
Q.  Your thoughts on the course and how things are looking?
DAVID DUVAL:  I like the golf course, like I said.  It's a little wet obviously.  We got some rain again real early this morning.

My golf game is really good.  I came here because I played last year and I thought the course set up really well for me, although I didn't play very well, and I expect some good things this week.
Q.  You had confidence going into the Open, but how much confidence did you take from the Open?
DAVID DUVAL:  You know, similar    I don't know if it changed.  It certainly helps, but I really felt like I could win that golf tournament, and I played well enough to.  I just had a couple of stretches of holes that kind of took me out of it.  Even Sunday it looked like I had a great chance, just a couple of putts I felt like I should make, I needed to make just didn't go in.
Q.  The young guys playing golf now hit it as far as they can and try to go for the green.  Has the game changed since you came out?
DAVID DUVAL:  Sure, it's changed, looking at how far people are hitting it.  But the winners haven't.  I mean, obviously equipment is different.  I think the people are just generally bigger.  There's several people who hit it incredibly long distances.  That's not all there is to playing the game.  You look at who has continued to win golf tournaments this year, and very few of the massive hitters have won.  If they have, it hasn't been too many wins.  Sure, hitting it far helps, but you have to know where it's going.
Q.  Are the younger kids coming out with more confidence than they used to?
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't know.  I haven't been around them as much.  I think that the competition they've been playing through college, amateur golf, exposure to professional events, sure, the expectations are higher, and I think confidence is probably higher because of that.  But it's still a different ballgame.  It's entirely different, and I think that goes to show because very few people come out and have success early on.
Q.  You are back to being a bigger guy, do you ever look back and think that you got into too good of shape a few years ago?
DAVID DUVAL:  You know, who's to day.  I feel like it was an avenue I wanted to explore for my golf, but I think that if anything the ill effects of it were more that I changed my center of gravity, kind of thinned out a little bit too much and lost kind of my legs and my butt, my center of gravity was off and I've always been real thick kind of from here to the knees, that's just how I'm built and that's what hurt as much as anything.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT