THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 23, 2006
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  I was going to ask you, how good was that second shot on 1 from where you were?
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, starting out and being there, sure, it was very good.  I didn't really expect to have any problems    if I could catch the ball solid, getting it up wasn't a problem.
Q.  And then three birdies on the back, looked like pretty good shots in.
DAVID DUVAL:  Just kind of solid shots, you know.  I played a little bit better from about 6 through 16, 17, but then I hit a poor drive on 18 to make bogey.
Q.  Unrelated to today, I'm asking a bunch of guys what their personal recollections are of the '86 Masters.  I'm guessing you probably were riveted to your TV someplace.  What do you remember about that day?  What were you doing, who was with you and how did it affect you?
DAVID DUVAL:  I don't remember who was there or anything, I just remember watching the tournament.  I'm sure my father was around and my mom, but I think I was as excited as anybody to see the shots that were being pulled off and putts being made.
Q.  Probably at home then, I guess?
DAVID DUVAL:  Yes.
Q.  Were you rooting for Kite that day?
DAVID DUVAL:  Maybe I was.
Q.  6 and 7 you started hitting fairways.  Were you able to make that adjustment that was bothering you on 1 and 2 or did you just loosen up?
DAVID DUVAL:  Just kind of started to loosen up a little bit better.  You know, fortunately for me last week and this week I haven't had my back bothering me.  It takes me a while to get fully loose, and I think I'm a little bit anxious starting out, a little tight knowing I'm playing well, and I wasn't swinging the golf club like I would want to and not playing in a relaxed manner.
Q.  How is this tournament different than it would be at Riviera or Bay Hill?  Do you still feel that at all?
DAVID DUVAL:  A little bit, maybe not as much as I used to.
Q.  How would you compare the way the course is playing today with these conditions compared to a normal day at PLAYERS Thursday?
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, what's that?  This is normal except it's playing fast and it's not soaked.  This is more normal than anything seemingly.
Q.  Have you noted any changes with a couple holes?
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, you can tell the difference in the drainage with the firmness of the fairways.  It's nice to know that most of the golf course is pretty firm, considering the water.
Q.  On a day like today do you look at it and say there are going to be holes where I'm going to go and holes where I'm just going to try to hit it in the middle and try to make par?
DAVID DUVAL:  There's a lot of shots that way, really.  You know, a lot of the holes where you feel like you maybe want to get aggressive requires accuracy to start, though, getting it in play obviously.  But at the same time the way the greens have gotten, a bit firm, they're a little faster than you might expect for today with the water, the rain.  You have to be a little bit careful where you're hitting the golf ball with the lines you're taking.
Q.  What happened to you in that stretch on the back where you made those three birdies?  Did you say I'm hitting it good enough where I can go?
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, yes and no.  My first one on 11 was just a great shot out of the bunker from 70 yards, you know, a shot that you might hit 30 yards, you might hit 100.

And over on 7 you've obviously got to get the combination of line and distance right, but with that down left pin, you kind of pick out a spot up there and it's going to roll down and roll out pretty close to where the hole is.

But 16, again, I was hitting it at the green, playing aggressively, if you will, but at the left side, front left, just kind of felt like I had to hit it hard and just released it a bit but got away with it and had a decent enough lie to feel comfortable with a chip, not real protective.
Q.  Can you assess the way you've played this year, the state of your game?
DAVID DUVAL:  It's the same as I've been saying for all the year; I'm playing very well and just not getting anything out of it.
Q.  If the weather does what it's supposed to do and the wind kicks up a little bit, do you feel like you'll be in your element a little bit since you've played well here under those conditions?
DAVID DUVAL:  I think I'm like most people where I would like to see it firm and fast.  It just requires that much more patience and that much more precision.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT