VALERO TEXAS OPEN
September 23, 2005
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How does it feel?
DAVID DUVAL:  It's okay.  It's not 100 percent still, but it doesn't hurt like it did Wednesday.

Q.  What happened to it?
DAVID DUVAL:  I just banged it real hard on a metal hook, just like a freak little accident.

Q.  What does it mean to you to make your first cut this year?  Is that a milestone for all the work you've been putting in?
DAVID DUVAL:  Not really.  I mean, it is in a way.  It's a cycle that needed to be broken, but I've been playing a lot better than my scores have reflected for the last six weeks.

You know, each day I seem to hit the highest score I could possibly, the last six or eight rounds I've played.  It's no different this week so far.  I've hit it really well, just made a couple stupid mistakes.  I made, what, three bogeys today, three or four, and they were 9 irons and 7 iron.  I hit 9 iron over the green on 14 and made par on my second shot, just silly little things.

Q.  But the birdie on 17
DAVID DUVAL:  I hit a really nice shot.  You know, sometimes they're hard, those shots.  You're pulling out an 8 iron and it's 190 yards, but the wind is blowing so hard.  I made a really nice shot and finally made a putt.  I hadn't made anything.

Q.  How far?
DAVID DUVAL:  10 or 12 feet.

Q.  This course over the last two years, this has been kind of a reclamation course for a lot of people.
DAVID DUVAL:  Really?

Q.  A lot of people have been able to fire at the flags here, things like that, and have been able to kind of light things up.  How does this course fit your eye?
DAVID DUVAL:  I like it.  There's certainly a couple of awkward shots, you know, like initially 7, I decided to go ahead and hit    it's a par 5 and I'm going to hit 3 wood at the green, so why not go ahead.  So I did that.  And No. 16 I didn't hit the green but I probably could have hit 3 wood on that green.  Visually it's hard.

There were a couple of tough shots, and you have to really be committed, especially with the elevation changes and the gullies and things like that that you have to play around and through and stuff.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT