MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 4, 2002
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We have David Duval, nine under,
133, tied for the lead after two rounds, best two
opening grounds since last year's GHL, I believe.
A little chuckle there.  Kind of an up-and-down day
there, David.
DAVID DUVAL:  I'm just happy to be done.  I
played okay, I'm just not as quite as sharp as
yesterday but I went off pretty good and managed to
play a few shots out of the rough that kind of
saved my round.
Q.   You kept bouncing back, as well, it seemed
when you had some problems out there.
DAVID DUVAL:  That's the name of the game.
Q.   What was different today, do you know?
DAVID DUVAL:  Who knows?
Q.   Is that the kind of question --
DAVID DUVAL:  If I knew it wouldn't be
happening.  Nothing really.  Maybe my timing was a
little bit different is all.  I wasn't really off
because I hit a lot of good shots, but I just
didn't quite manage to get the ball in the fairway

as much, and therefore the less greens you hit the
less chances.  You've got to play all the
fairways.  I hit one bad shot off the tee and made
bogey there and I bogeyed 11 where I shouldn't have
and made a couple other bogeys that I shouldn't
have, but I also made a lot of birdies and I shot
two under, so that was all.
Q.   When you start with two bogeys with the
good attitude that you had yesterday, does that
affect you at all?
DAVID DUVAL:  Certainly you're upset and
disappointed because, more so at the shot I hit off
the 10 tee as opposed to the score itself, but it's
pretty easy to think the day before I shot 64, so
where you place it shouldn't matter.  The scores
come, whether they're birdies or eagles or
whatever, so you've got to play 18 holes and add
them up.
Q.   Was the tee box a problem most of the time
for you?
DAVID DUVAL:  What do you mean?
Q.   Is that what got you in trouble?  It
seemed like you were a little scattered.
DAVID DUVAL:  I was a little bit left and

right.  All in all, not real bad.  I mean, just a
little bit off is all.
Q.   The second shot you hit on 9, it looked
like about two pounds of grass came up after the
club went out.
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, I was hoping to have a
little bit better lie obviously, but I did a pretty
good job -- I did a real good job and made four and
did a pretty good job and tried to get it up there
as far as I could.  I thought I could get it out
but it didn't come out.
Q.   Did you see enough of that rough today to
figure on the weekend I don't want to be there at
all?
DAVID DUVAL:  Well --
Q.   It looked like a lot of club hangers
today.
DAVID DUVAL:  You never want to play out of the
rough, but at the same time I'm strong enough to
play out of a lot of the stuff.  If you're kind of
asking me does that mean will the rough force me to
back down, no, I'll just keep pounding away.
Q.   Are you surprised that nobody went -- that
you're still tied for the lead, that nobody went

nuts today?
DAVID DUVAL:  A little bit more so about the
morning.  I don't know -- I can't speak about the
morning round because I wasn't out there, but you
figure that the greens would be a little bit
better.  This afternoon they were pretty bad.  They
were pretty beat up and not very good, so it made
putting difficult.  I would have imagine that's
probably why the scores weren't a little bit
better, and to top it off you had a little bit of
wind.
Q.   Would you go through the card?
DAVID DUVAL:  I hit a bad drive off of the tee,
hooked it left and chipped it on after my second
shot to about five feet and missed obviously,
lipped that out.
On the next hole I hit 9-iron just right
of the green, chipped it up to five feet and lipped
that out.
On 15 I hit a 2-iron just through the
green.  I chipped down to six feet and made it.
On 16 I hit a 7-iron to about eight feet,
made that.
On No. 1 I hit a sand wedge to six feet,

made that.
No. 3 I hit an 8-iron on the green and
two-putted from about 15 feet.
Q.   8-iron from what distance?
DAVID DUVAL:  216 yards.
Q.   Can I have your autograph?
DAVID DUVAL:  Just one of those -- I was in the
rough and it was one of those shots that I said I
feel like I'm strong enough to play it.  I just hit
a flyer.  It's a bit of a guessing game there.
Q.   It helps that the greens were soft?
DAVID DUVAL:  That green is not soft.  The
third is not.  There's about four of them that
aren't.  You know, the raised greens, none of those
are soft.
The next hole I hit it in the front bunker
in two and hit a bad bunker shot and two putted
from 20 feet for bogey.
On the fifth hole I hit a 6-iron to a foot
and a half.
On the sixth hole I bogied it again.  I
hit a sand wedge out of the right rough just
through the green, chipped down to eight feet
maybe.  I obviously missed that.

On the seventh hole I hit 5-iron, missed
the green to the right and chipped down to five
feet and made it.
Q.   How would you rate that save at 9?  That's
got to be kind of a momentum thing going?
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, it's not that it was a
great save so much as it was good for me for the
day for momentum.  I've gotten it up and down from
tougher spots.  Your point is well taken.  That's
exactly what it was.  It was a nice way to finish
off.  I made enough bogeys; I didn't need to make
another one at that point.
Q.   Are you to the point where sharing the
lead after two rounds doesn't really have any --
doesn't really have any impact, it's just kind of
do the same thing?
DAVID DUVAL:  Like make me nervous or something
you mean?
Q.   Yeah.
DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, certainly as a competitor
or as a player your goals are to be playing late
Sunday afternoon and be nervous because it means
you have a chance to win.  No matter how many golf
tournaments you win you have a little bit, but I

think situations you get into where if you see a
player like Tiger Woods or Phil Mickelson or me or
Davis Love and they're in the lead or something and
don't play well it's not because of nerves, they
just don't play good.  They've been there enough
and played enough and have won enough golf
tournaments and played Ryder Cups.  Certainly
there's some nerves, but nothing that's out of the
ordinary, nothing that would have an impact on the
golf game.
Q.   Do you remember playing a golf round with
Tanaka in Japan?  He says you don't remember.
DAVID DUVAL:  I played the first two days with
him.
Q.   He said you were in the lead and he just
barely made the cut.
DAVID DUVAL:  I was in the lead.  I think we
played the first two rounds togethers.  I believe I
played with him and Shingo.
Q.   He referred to you as Mr. David Duval.
DAVID DUVAL:  I'm a little bigger than he is.
Q.   Everybody is a little bigger than he is.
Do you remember the ping-pong match with Fred Funk
that you knew you were going to give him the best

year of his career by playing ping pong with him?
He said it turned him around.  He said why can't we
do this on the golf course and that there was all
kinds of hooting and yelling and screaming and
jumping around?
DAVID DUVAL:  Did he tell you that he lost?
Q.   It was more about the attitude.
DAVID DUVAL:  It's not about attitude, it's
about outcome.
TODD BUDNICK:  Everybody good?  Thank you,
David.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT