MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 3, 2002
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, David, for spending a few minutes with us.  Excellent round today, 64, low round of the year.
DAVID DUVAL:  Is it?  I don't know if I should be happy by what you told me or insulted.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  I think you should be happy.
DAVID DUVAL:  It is nice to have a good round.  I've had a few lately so it feels good.  That goes without saying.  I played good today.  Kind of a carryover from last week in England where I was really fired up about being there and playing.  I kind of had the same feeling as I got in here yesterday.

Q.  Will this place always hold a special place for you because it was the place where you won first?
DAVID DUVAL:  My answer would be yes, but to give it a yes-A, I think because I won the next year, as well, is what really kind of locked that up, to come back and defend the first tournament I won successfully was really good.

Q.  Is that one of the reasons you decided to play this week?  Most of the Ryder Cup guys took off.
DAVID DUVAL:  Did they? 

Q.  I'm just wondering whether you're tired mentally.
DAVID DUVAL:  Not really.  I took off the last few days and that's why I wanted to -- if I come to play a golf tournament I want to be ready to play, and I feel like I should do my best to get here and play with how they've treated me the last six, seven years.  Johnnie Bender and her staff have done a tremendous job, but I felt like the best way for me to prepare was to go home for a couple days and tend to things as simple as laundry, repacking, unpacking and repacking, the things that you don't think of necessarily that take time.  That's why I pulled out of the Pro-Am, just to give myself that extra day of rest and really try to put on a good show for the last year here.

Q.  What kind of laundry detergent do you use?
DAVID DUVAL:  I use Tide -- I'm not sure. It's a red bottle.

Q.  That's a good question.  What happens to all those official Ryder Cup team suits?  Do you ever get a chance to wear them again or do they get donated or what?
DAVID DUVAL:  I've never worn any of the outfits other than those weeks. 

Q.  They just go in your closet and stay there?
DAVID DUVAL:  They take up space throughout the house, yeah.

Q.  A lot of people have been coming in and talking about how tough the conditions are out there, but there's a lot of pretty good numbers on the board.
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I think maybe the conditions with the heat being kind of stifling a little bit and the rough being damn near over the top, I mean, it's really bad.  If you're hitting it out of play you're going to shoot a high score.  There's no way around it.  I hit my shot over there on 6 and just had 70 yards to the front of the green and could barely get it there.  The course is there to be had if you hit it in the fairways like a lot of golf courses, but here especially with the greens being a little soft.

Q.  Did the setup last week kind of get you ready for this week's setup which seems a little similar?
DAVID DUVAL:  No, there's a lot more fairway out here than there was last week.  Last week was pretty tight and tough driving.  They really pinched it in up there at 270, 280, 290 and forced all the players back really.  Here you've got some ground to play with, which is nice.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  David, can we go  through your birdies and bogeys?
DAVID DUVAL:  Sure.  I birdied the first hole, I believe.  What do you want, the clubs?
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Just the approach.
DAVID DUVAL:  I hit 9-iron about ten feet.
On the second hole I hit 3-iron about 18 feet.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Bogey on 6.
DAVID DUVAL:  The sixth hole I hit it in the rough off the tee and hit sand wedge just off the green on the front and three-putted from there.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  7?
DAVID DUVAL:  7th hole I hit a 5-iron just left of the green, got up and down.
No. 9 I hit 8-iron about 15 feet right at the hole.
The 10th hole I hit 8-iron to about three feet.
12th hole I hit 7-iron to about six feet.
14 I bogied, right?  14 I hit a sand wedge, flew it over the green and chipped it back just over the green and then got up and down from there.
The 15th hole I made a three on.  I hit a 6-iron about 20 feet below the hole.

Q.  How far was that putt? 
DAVID DUVAL:  About 20 feet.

Q.  Did you hit driver off that tee?
DAVID DUVAL:  Yes.

Q.  How far out were you for your 6-iron?
DAVID DUVAL:  I think I was 190 yards.
What else did I do?  17?  17 I hit a 7-iron to about 15 feet, just kind of behind the hole to the left.

Q.  16 you kind of scrambled a little bit, didn't you?
DAVID DUVAL:  Not really.

Q.  You missed the fairway.
DAVID DUVAL:  Hit it left off the tee, hit 9-iron on kind of the right side of the green just on the fringe and two-putted.  I guess it was a good four from there.  I two-putted from the better part of 60 feet down that hill.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  A couple more questions.
Q.  You mentioned that you had a couple of good rounds coming in, and you have.  One was in the last round of the tournament, one was in the second round. Does getting a good start -- following it up tomorrow will it be easier, tougher?
DAVID DUVAL:  You know, it's always easy to  shoot good scores when you're playing well and when you have some confidence.  I played -- I kind of felt like myself on the weekend at Sahalee, which is the first time in quite some time with the injuries I've been dealing with and the kind of nagging problems I've had, and then over in Ireland I played pretty well actually, even the final day when I shot four over par.  The score is a little deceiving because I think I hit 14 greens and missed a couple fairways and managed to shoot four over somehow.
The Ryder Cup I played pretty well the three matches I was in.  The first one I could have done a little bit better but in the second match and the singles I played quite well and then came in here today, so really in the last 10, 12 rounds it's been the exception when I haven't played well.

Q.  How long does it take for like a glimmer of hope to turn into full-blown confidence again?
DAVID DUVAL:  It takes a Ryder Cup.  It doesn't take long.  You know, it literally -- I think depending on the circumstance, the situation you're in, the event you're playing in it could change, but being in the atmosphere and the arena of the Ryder Cup, it took hitting it in the fairway the first hole my first match to get a little bit of a swagger simply because  even just that tee shot is -- the first ones are tough.  I mean, it's hard to explain it to anybody who hasn't played, to people who haven't been there, covered it and seen it.  I mean, it is -- you can liken it to having to hit it in the fairway on the 72nd hole and knock it on the green with a 6-iron and two putt to win a golf tournament.  It was like that for three days every shot.  I mean, it's a real boiler out there.  You can gain a lot of confidence in some of the simple things that you can accomplish during the course of the round.

Q.  Did you come home from that as energized as some of the other guys said they were even though you guys didn't win?
DAVID DUVAL:  Energized as far as --

Q.  Just excited, gushing about what a great time it was and what a great event it was?
DAVID DUVAL:  It was a really exceptional event.  The matches were played in my opinion with what I saw in matches in which I partook, the golf ranged from very good to excellent, which can be a little surprising under the circumstances.  The players were more than cordial, were very friendly out there.  We got a lot of questions about that obviously, but unfortunately the people that were asking the  questions, you can't be up there close enough to hear the conversation and to hear the good shot, nice putt, good drive, those things that take place, and for me, I left there enthused about golf, about how we had played, about how we carried ourselves as a team, enthused about how well the European team had gelled together and really gotten the job done on Sunday.  I was in that position a few years ago, and I left with some passion that I found that had been missing for quite some time.

Q.  Just for golf in general?
DAVID DUVAL:  Yes.

Q.  How important is it for you to be patient with yourself?
DAVID DUVAL:  You can't really measure that. I mean, it's unbelievably important.

Q.  At what point did you think this week I'm going back to Kingsmill or I'm here at Kingsmill and this place has been very good to me?  I mean, was there just a moment where you said this is my place?
DAVID DUVAL:  In a sense I guess I thought that way, but it certainly helps that I came here, but had I been playing somewhere else this week following up the events of last week, I would have been quite enthused for the week and the possibilities of what was  going to happen.  You know, I'm looking -- I'm playing three events the rest of this year, maybe four, I don't know yet exactly, and the thinking I have is I can clean up this year with three wins pretty easy, that I can turn what's been a bad golf year into another multiple win season.  That's how I feel about my golf right now.

Q.  What's the status of all your various ailments?
DAVID DUVAL:  I feel really good.  My back is fine, it's been fine for quite some time.  The shoulder that has been nagging me for six or seven months this year but it's fine.  The wrist I hurt last year is fine, and my head is doing okay, too.

Q.  Isn't that the most important one?
DAVID DUVAL:  Uh-huh.

Q.  Can you go back to follow up on what Rich just said, if it hadn't been Kingsmill do you think you would have played this week, looking at your schedule would this have been a week that you would have played if it hadn't been for Kingsmill?
DAVID DUVAL:  You know, that's a hard question to answer simply because you haven't replaced it with another event.  The answer would probably be yes, I would have played, and I would have taken the  same approach.

Q.  David, when you won at the British you've said that you didn't do everything right but you did enough right to win.  Where do you feel mentally -- where could you put where you feel right now mentally in regards to where you were I guess maybe last year?
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I don't know if this will answer your question, but it's the best way I can try to do that.  Out there playing last week at the Ryder Cup and today, I felt like me.  Does that answer your question?
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  One or two more questions.
Q.  You said it's been a long time since that, since you felt that way.  Like how long?
DAVID DUVAL:  Maybe November of last year.  I really haven't played a whole lot of good golf since the World Cup last year.  I won the tournament the week before in Japan and then played very mediocre at the World Cup, and had I played just good we would have won that golf tournament, I think.  As it was we lost in the playoff, and then this year there's just been -- I don't know, I've gone through life a lot more like everybody does at times.  I've had things going on elsewhere that are a distraction, and you can look at  it as it's been quite a poor year golf-wise or you can choose to look at it as with everything that's going on I felt okay.

Q.  When you say I felt like me, do you mean your confidence is back where you need it, you feel good?
DAVID DUVAL:  It's a combination of confidence, patience, health, focus, my mental approach to think of how I'm playing and getting my way around the golf course, those kinds of things.

Q.  Given that you got through everything as you said okay, does that help your mental approach now?
DAVID DUVAL:  Well, yes, it does, but I feel like I'm trying to explain as best I can.  I mean, there's not -- as a player out here, whether you're David Duval, Tiger Woods or somebody else, if you don't want to be out there competing, you're going to get beat up pretty good.  Now, for me, my head has been in different places this year unfortunately simply because I've had other things going on that I've had to focus on and pay attention to and tend to, and, you know, there's been adjustments I've had to make and new lives and lifestyles to get used to, and that's all.  I really feel uncomfortable sitting here talking about it simply because it's no different than something you may have gone through this year or last year.  You know  about it for me because I'm more of a public figure, but everybody in this room may have gone through the same things recently, I don't know, and that's why I don't want to talk about it.  Simply you choose to look at things how you want, and I have not looked at it as I've done okay considering what a disaster, but I can take a step back and look at it and say I have done okay considering, and like I said, I have three rounds left this week, and the way I'm kind of thinking right now is I've got a good chance of being in the Tour Championship come next Sunday, and I'm way outside it right now, but that's how I feel.

Q.  Considering your history here, if you walk out of here Sunday with a win, is it going to mean anything special to you?
DAVID DUVAL:  I'm just curious to see if they'll let me come back and defend.

Q.  How do you look in a skirt?  You would be the only person to win three times, so I guess it's a good finishing point.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, David, for joining us.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT