WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 20, 2002
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TODD BUDNICK:  We have David Duval, 7 under 65 today.  Looks like eight birdies, one bogey.  A very good round.
DAVID DUVAL:   Thank you, I had a nice day.  Eight birdies, one 3-putt for bogey.  The only green I missed, I got up and down on 7.  I hit it in the fairway most of the day, hit it close really all day, and made it a few putts.
TODD BUDNICK:  A lot of the players have come in and talked about the course and the conditions; your feelings on it.
DAVID DUVAL:   The fairways are good.  They're not necessarily better than anywhere else, but greens are what I think has really impressed everybody.  Even after all the traffic.  I played late yesterday and they were perfect, no spike marks.  You couldn't tell anyone had been out there.  It's amazing how good they are.

Q.  Obviously, the last round at NEC and then today, two 65s which I believe were the best rounds of the year so far, your game seems to be coming around.  Earlier in the year you were maybe not playing your best golf, what's the difference over the last couple of weeks?
DAVID DUVAL:   Up at Sahalee, I don't know, I feel I was playing well the week before there, the PGA, didn't get much out of it and played well, Cal was doing a lot of what I was doing on Sunday at the PGA.  I got going really well and seemed to botch it up somehow, and I did that seemingly every day at Sahalee as well, with the exception  of Sunday, but there again I did make a couple of bogeys coming in that day, too.  But the thing I haven't done this year, the thing that I've done a little bit better as of late, I put the ball in play, simple as that.  I played out of fairways as opposed to playing out of the rough.

Q.  Obviously feeling at least if you're playing out of the fairways, how do you feel this week going into next week, because obviously most of us are talking about next week and this week certainly is important to you if not more important.  Players have said winning this week is more important than next week for them; how do you feel you're playing going into next week?
DAVID DUVAL:   I'm getting a lot of that confidence back that I need to get back.  And that's coming from having some success out on the golf course, from hitting the golf ball where I'm looking, from having a day like today which is the first round I have a had in a long time where I executed everything I was trying to do.  I mean, not necessarily from playing aggressively and things like that, but from hitting at my spots, going into the greens away from the flags, hitting it in certain places, things like that, which is how I like to play.  That makes me feel good about today, as much as anything, that I played smart and I hit 17 greens, I think it was, and really -- I mean, I didn't have a chance to make a mistake, is my point.  That's how I like to play when I'm playing good.

Q.  Regarding the greens, some players have suggested they could be quicker.  Is there any good reason why they're not quicker?
DAVID DUVAL:  They're perfect.  I think they're a very good speed.  I don't know what it is, but probably 11, 11 and a half.  I don't know how fast you want them.  There is a little bit of slope in there.  When you get them up to 13, you're taking away pin positions that you can't use.  Who knows?  I mean seemingly we're all experts out here, aren't we?  I think they're great.

Q.  I'm simply listening to what your colleagues are saying.  Your colleagues have commended the greens, except they've said they could be quicker. 
DAVID DUVAL:   There's not much for me to say about that.  How am I supposed to respond to that?

Q.  Do you agree they could be quicker?
DAVID DUVAL:   I just said no; I think they're perfect.  I think they're perfect -- I'll say it again.

Q.  Tiger was expressing some ambivalence about the Ryder Cup next week.  What's your own feelings about the event.  Does it excite you?
DAVID DUVAL:   It excites me very much.  I think the ambivalence, if that's what you want to call it, you get from players is not about the matches and the competition itself and playing.  I think it's the pomp and circumstance that go surrounding it.  You're out there, you get a schedule of when you're supposed to hit balls and eat and tee off, and when you're done you have 35 minutes to shower and change and put on a tuxedo and go to an event that none of the players want to go to.  I think those things are what makes any of the negative comments, that's where it comes from.  I don't think it's from the matches.  The matches themselves are tremendous fun and very nerve-wracking, and I think the players enjoy those as much as any.

Q.  Do you or any other players try to reduce these outside demands with the tuxedo stuff?  Have you raised the issue with the officials?
DAVID DUVAL:   I think it has been curbed a little bit.  I don't remember how many there are.  I haven't looked at the schedule.  The first couple of nights we're there and maybe the last night, something like that, once it gets deeper in the week, it settles down.  The thing -- the problem comes in talk of the team event, and now it's a team, but you're almost not given much of a chance to spend time with the team, certainly not the first days you're there, other than being on the golf course.  It's a difficult thing, when you go in to a tournament and are forced to prepare for that event in a way than what you might normally do.  It's sometimes hard to catch a rhythm.

Q.  Saying that, how does the Ryder Cup rank along with the WGC events and the majors?
DAVID DUVAL:   I don't know.  I'm not going to get into this.  I'm playing next week.  I'm looking forward to it.  I'm not going to get into ranking.  I'm not biting on that.  It's important to me and I want to win.

Q.  Three years ago at Brookline, Bush came in on Saturday night and talked to the team, read the team the Alamo letter.  Can you talk about what any effect that had on you and tell me if the team heard from the president this year?
DAVID DUVAL:   I don't know, if any of the team has.  I haven't.  The affect that something like that has -- I guess for me, the way I can best put it, there's are other people that are concerned and are enthusiastic about it.  Does it have any affect on your play?  No, I don't think so.  That motivation, that drive to compete and play well, if you can't get it from within, you're going to have a problem.  So -- but it's always comforting to find people who have taken an interest and are paying attention to it, paying attention to what you're doing.

Q.  Have you been able to put a finger on what it was that isn't there now or hasn't been there for the past 12 months or so, since you won the British Open, that was there when you won 11 out of 34 starts?
DAVID DUVAL:   I can argue with you about the duration.  It's been more like eight months.  I won in Japan in November.  I lost in a playoff in October on the tour.  So I played well really through the end of last year too.  I think it all stems from driving the ball purely.  I think where the majority of it comes from.  When you don't keep it in the play, you have very little chance to compete.  If you do hit it in the play, you start forcing your irons, maybe hitting a 4-iron at the flag, when you really shouldn't do it.  If you're hitting in the fairway 12 times a day, you wouldn't do that.  So your opportunities get decreased and then it feeds into when you do have a chance, you put that much more pressure on yourself because you have an eight-footer finally for birdie and it's not for par.  It all builds from there, I think that's where it's all built for me.  And I've played for about nine years as a pro up until this year and have driven it well, and I think that's where a lot of my strength comes from.  I put the ball in play and I tend to put it out there fairly far, the combination of distance and accuracy is as good as most people, and I failed to do that this year, as simple as that.
TODD BUDNICK:  Your birdies, David.
DAVID DUVAL:   The first hole I hit 3-wood, sand wedge 10 feet.
Third hole I hit 6-iron to eight feet.
4th hole, I 3-putted.
The 5th hole, I chipped up to eight feet.
The 8th hole, I hit it down in front of the green, about 20 yards short and chipped to eight or 10 feet, something like that.
10th hole, I hit it just left of the green, chipped on to within 5 feet.
16, I hit 7-iron to eight feet behind the hole. 
17, I hit a 5-iron to about 12 feet and 2-putted.
18, I hit 7-iron to whatever that was, 10 feet, 12 feet.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, David.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT