BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2002
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  p> 
 DAVID DUVAL: It feels good.  It's nice to be back.  I've enjoyed these opens since '95, since I've been playing.  Although you don't go back to the same golf course each year, you get a sense of familiarity with the grandstands and the score boards and the tall grass and the bunkers and the like.  So I certainly have some good feelings from last year, good feelings that I could definitely use.  It's been a pretty bad year for me so far, and I was very proud of my victory last year.  I don't believe I quite understood the impact it had until I got to some other places outside the United States and realized that the reception of the people was tremendous, and realize that if there is a world Open, that this is it, and I'm a very lucky man to have won my first one here.

Q.  Talk a little bit why you've had a poor year this year.
DAVID DUVAL: Well, I don't know if I could list all the reasons and I'm not going to list all the reasons.  I lost a little bit of focus.  I got a little bit too absorbed.  I have gotten and getting out of I think a little too absorbed in how I'm swinging the golf club.  Ironically enough, I seem to forget that at Lytham last year I won the golf tournament, certainly hitting the ball well, but not nearly as well as I'm capable of.  Since then, I've had some other  -- I don't know, I think I'm like any golfer, I strive to improve and seek to improve and choose the wrong path to go down and I think I did that.  And like I said, I certainly, I discovered some other things in life, you know, the Open   -- winning the Open has certainly been one of the climaxes of my golf career to this point, a career that I think is going to last for the foreseeable future, for what -- let's put it -- for what I want it to last for the foreseeable future.  But I got sidetracked for different reasons.

Q.  Is there a sense of irony that you did win the Open and has that had a negative affect?  Did you get sidetracked because you were the champion?
DAVID DUVAL: No, it didn't  -- not specifically, no.  I mean, yes, in a sense, not because it was the Open Championship, but golf's oldest event and biggest event and realize there is more to it than winning just a major championship or major championships.  It's something I said last year, which really kind of struck me, was it's just a game, and I think that having won that I realize that that much more, and like any man or woman in this room, like I say, you get sidetracked; you're not as enthused about things at times and are thinking about other stuff and it's not a big deal.  It's just the ups and downs.  I've played pretty well, obviously not every week, but I've played pretty darn good for nine years as a professional.  I've had  -- I've had about four or five bad months now and if I can  -- I recognize some of the things that I've been doing.  If I can correct those things and go another nine or 10 years and have five bad months in that time, I'll be a happy man.

Q.  Is it something you can remedy overnight?
DAVID DUVAL: Not necessarily.

Q.  Take this week as an example...
DAVID DUVAL: I think it's possible, yes.  I think it's  -- do I expect it?  I don't know.  I just feel like I'm thinking about the right things now.  I'm not  -- I'm thinking about getting back to what made me so good at playing the game, which was simplicity, and that's how I've always approached it.  I built a golf swing off of feel and off of practice, and I had sound fundamentals.  You can argue my grip is strong.  I mean, that's quite apparent.  However, it made the things I did very simple, and so I just got sidetracked from those keys a little bit, and it's just a matter of getting back on track with those things.

Q.  You seem to be tip-toeing around something that -- (inaudible) --
DAVID DUVAL: I'm just sitting here telling you it's not just one thing.  I wish there was a secret or something, something that's happened, or something, that's not the case.  I'm just trying to tell you   - maybe you don't want to hear   - but I just got sidetracked.  I'm sure you have too at some point.  It's things that happen, you start thinking about other things and your head is not clear, and you've just got to recognize that and straighten things out and move forward.  That's all I've been doing.

Q.  There has been criticism from some of the older players about not trying to catch Tiger for whatever reasons, not good enough and what goes through your mind, how does that affect you (inaudible)  --
DAVID DUVAL: I think it's an easy thing to sit up here and talk with a bunch of folks like yourself, if given the forum and try say the players today were better than yesteryear or if it happens to be the three or four people who were saying  -- I guess it was Jack  -- I didn't see it, I guess I should say, too, my point being is it's easy to say when you can't compare.  There is no way to argue either side of it, and you can say that David Duval doesn't have the guts or the drive, or Phil Mickelson doesn't or Sergio, or they're not good enough or too spoiled.  How are you going to argue it?  It's something you can't argue.  You can't complain. 
I think if you look at the people out on that driving range, I think the work ethic, from what I understand, again, I didn't get to see those guys play, I didn't get to see them practice, but you hear the great camaraderie that existed 25 years ago that doesn't exist today.  It's was not as business-like.  There wasn't as much attention on one's health and fitness.  It was get done and crack a few balls and crack open a cold one.  It's certainly was more of a boys' club, enjoyable.  I liked it when I was playing the Nike Tour, a little more camaraderie.  I think it's  -- I can't say that they're misspeaking.  I can't say that they're wrong.  I can't say that they're right.  I really don't have an opinion.  Do I take offense to it?  Not necessarily because every man is entitled to an opinion, and I just wish that on those kinds of things, there was a way to compare, I was talking to somebody else, it's like comparing   - forgive me I don't know the years   - but the Steelers of the '60s to the Cowboys of the '80s.  How do you do it?  You can't do it.  So I think it's a waste of time.

Q.  (Inaudible)  players really have to get in there to dent that confidence (inaudible)  --
DAVID DUVAL:  He didn't win at Lytham last year and he didn't win at Southern Hills and he did win it at Atlanta Athletic club.  He did win at Augusta and Bethpage this year.    I think the thing that happens that as a player, ever person in this room is aware that Tiger is extremely efficient and extremely good at what he does.  I think his skills  -- I think if Tiger Woods is playing his best, I think if other players are playing their best, I don't think there is a big of a difference between them as everyone thinks there is.  I think the difference lies in that he has managed to put on a consistently high level an approach that's worked pretty well for Jack Nicklaus, minimizing your mistakes, getting it in play, making some putts, getting up and down, and not compounding errors.  I did a very fine job at that of that  at Lytham last year, and other places when I've won a golf tournament.
That's how you win golf tournaments.  I think the difference lies in that he has managed to do it virtually every week he plays where other players have not been able to do that.

Q.  Results aside, do you think he's the most talented player in the game?
DAVID DUVAL: Based purely on talent?  No, I don't think so.  I think that there are other players as talented.  I think that he is mechanically sound as anybody.  I think he works as hard as anybody, and I think he tends to outthink a lot of people and outmanage his game, outmanage other players.  Yes, there's not too many people that can hit the 2 iron like he can, but there are a lot of other great golfers and I don't think anybody is more talented, but I think there are players that are certainly, as I said, at their best.  I don't think the difference is as great.  I think the difference lies in a mental approach.  He waits for people to  make mistakes and he manages not to and that's one of Jack's famous things, I think.

Q.  Given the things you were talking about, the year you've had, do you think that being back here and defending here could maybe elevate you, your spirits and your game, so to speak, to maybe break out of this?
DAVID DUVAL: I think so, yes, absolutely.  I certainly can tell you it elevates my spirits being back.  I think that this is, you know, might be the best tournament of the year.  It's just so different than what I'm used to seeing and I think that what most of the players here see.  I don't think you see these types of setups very often that are extremely difficult yet playable and demanding.  I don't think  -- do I think I'm going to wake up cured tomorrow morning?  No, I don't think so.  I think I've had four or five bad months and I don't think it will take that long to get where I want to be.  But I think, like I said, I think it can happen this week.  I think it's just kind of  -- I've been on the cusp really of doing those things but I haven't gotten quite over the edge.

Q.  Was there a tournament or something that's brought matters to a head regarding your  -- (inaudible) --
DAVID DUVAL: Was there one specific thing?

Q.  Just something that brought it all to a head --
DAVID DUVAL: A little bit of it is just realizing enough is enough.  You know, I'm 180 degrees from where I need to be now and let's figure out why was I there and why am I here and let's make some steps, take some steps to travel back to where I should be. 

Q.  When did you decide that?
DAVID DUVAL: It was like Sunday night at 10:37, I think. (Laughter)  It's a bit of a slow realization that walking off the golf course at Bethpage, having shot 11 over and missed the cut and thinking how did I do that?  How did that happen?  And I went back and looked at things and I was like I played 31 holes even par this week and I shot 11 over, and that's just not me.  Getting done at Hartford the next week, having missed the cut, and having shot three or four over and thinking how am I at four over par when I hit it and should have been 6 or 7 under.  Those kinds of things.  And then you just say, you know, okay, well my strategy has been a little bit different.  My patience has been a little bit different, and it's just a matter of correcting those things.

Q.  (Inaudible)
DAVID DUVAL: No, I don't think I'm saying that.  I believe what -- I know what I'm saying.  I'm trying to make it clear that I worked very hard to get to that point, and I've had one goal since I've turned pro, and it didn't involve winning golf tournaments and it didn't involve winning major championships and it didn't involve winning money.  My goal has been to walk away from playing competitively thinking I did everything I could to maximize my own skills, my potential.  That was my goal.  I happen to think, if I did those things, that I could win a lot of golf tournaments and many major championships.  I happen to think that's the case, personally.  But I was also ready to walk away when I was done, if I had to play on the Nike Tour as my career, or if I was, you know, a guy who placed 50th to  100th on the money list each year, as long as I did what I needed to do to be the best I could be, I felt I won, and that's been my goal.  I accomplished some of those things.  I think sometimes  -- it's sometimes easier to win golf tournaments when you're playing great, you know, and playing great and doing all these great things, and easier on me and accepting than it is to win them when you're not playing all that great because then you're thinking, man, I wonder what I could do if I played great all the time. 
But getting back, like I said, that's my goal.  Like I said, I realize it's not all about golf.  It is a game in the end.  I guess it involves perspective in a sense.  I happen to think I'm pretty good at it, and I think I have  -- I think I'm in a very great position, because I'm only 30 years old, I'm starting to get into those prime years, and if I stop now, you know, I guess, you know, if you had said when I started, you would win  -- I don't even know how many tournaments I've won   -- a major and a World Cup and a Ryder Cup and I would have probably taken it and gone fishing.   I would have thought that's a pretty good career.  I'm pretty lucky and that's -- I've got prime time ahead of me.  I'm healthy, I'm fit, I'm stronger, I'm clear on where I want to be and where I want to go, and so it's exciting for me in a sense.  Certainly, I'm not at all pleased with results, but it's kind of like putting, you get too caught up in the results and you lose sight of the process and the process is what's important here.

Q.  This goal of yours, it sounds like it's ongoing...
DAVID DUVAL: Yes.

Q.  Do you have a burning desire to achieve this goal?
DAVID DUVAL: Absolutely.  Absolutely.  I think it's something that, like I said, I want to walk away with my head high; not walk away thinking I didn't do everything I could do and, I think that qualifies as a burning desire, yes.

Q.  (Inaudible) 
DAVID DUVAL: With my golf game? With my golf head?  What?  As a lot of people know, I've worked with Bob Rotella for what is now, I think, 13 years.  I met him just before I entered college back in about '89 or '88.  I worked with my father on my golf swing, and I worked with my golf coach from Tech on my golf swing.  That's kind of the circle that I'm closest with and trust the most.

Q.  Do you remember teeing  up as an aspiring champion before last year, the difference as teeing up as champion, is there a difference for you?
DAVID DUVAL: There is a difference in that I know I've done it.  But there's no difference in my approach or how I feel or the nervousness or the excitement.

Q.  It's not less intense?
DAVID DUVAL: Absolutely not.  It's not any more intense.  I think, if anything, it's more intense simply because there is a bit of pride that goes with being defending champion.

Q.  David, I know statistics are very misleading, but if there was one thing, you're 143rd in driving in PGA stats.  Does that mean anything?
DAVID DUVAL: What do you mean? 

Q.  In other words, getting off the tee, is that where the problem starts?
DAVID DUVAL: In accuracy, distance or which.

Q.  I think it's accuracy.
DAVID DUVAL: That doesn't help.

I think I've proven   -- I've spent a little time with the Tech team and Bryce Molder a couple of years, talking with him, and he was asking me some stuff about playing and such out on tour.  At that time I was driving the ball as well as anybody, pretty far and pretty straight, and I told him that there were a couple of things that you're going to need to do if you want success on the PGA TOUR, you better wedge it really good and putt really good and play in the fairway, because you're not going to beat me if you're playing out of the rough.  That goes to show you're not going to beat anybody playing out of the rough.  I was telling him, I mean, to him, you, yourself, are not going to beat me if you're playing out of the rough, and I'm not going to beat him if I'm playing out of the rough, as it goes to show?

Q.  At Bethpage, you said 31 pars.  Was it just a couple of holes that killed you or did you play really well and decently on those other 31 holes and let it all go on a few holes?
DAVID DUVAL: A few holes, I just hit it in the stuff, and some of it was way off line, and it was  -- I hit it in spots that was tough to recover from even.  And I hit it back in the fairways and such, and some of the shots I did hit it back into the fairways, I might have gotten too aggressive on the third shots and compounded my mistakes like I said that I did so well last year of not doing, and that Tiger is so good at. And that translates into four doubles and a triple and M C Hammer and spend the weekend wherever you want because you're not playing golf.

Q.  Obviously this course particularly, but all British Open courses, with the high rough, you really have to drive it well or hit your irons whatever you're doing off the tee, in your practice round, did you find the fairways today?
DAVID DUVAL: I hit it in a lot of fairways and I hit it in the high stuff a few times.  I hit it in some bunkers.  There's not  -- you know, it's  -- I think Bethpage was a bit of a blip on the screen as far as, you know, you couldn't play out of that rough.  Usually at U.S. Opens you can play out of the rough   -- you can advance the balls towards the greens and such where there you couldn't unless you got extremely lucky on your lie.  The recipe to success in the Open Championship is very simple:  Don't hit it in the pot bunkers and don't hit it in the high stuff.  And from there, you can go.  You can play, and if you hit it in a bunker, get out of the bunker in one, not in two, or 3 or 6, or whatever I did one day at the road hole.

Q.  Four.
DAVID DUVAL: Was it?  Everybody wants to make it more complicated than it is.  If you want to hit a 3-iron or 4-iron off the tee to hit it in the fairway, you better do that, and it's pretty simple from there.  You feed it up the greens and go.

Q.  With everything you've said this last half hour, what makes you think you can win this week?
DAVID DUVAL: Because I've done it before, because I have it in me and I've shown I have it in me and I know I have it in me.  Fortunately for me, I think, I am a mechanically sound player and yet I do play by feel.  I know it hasn't felt good for quite some time, however, it can start feeling good real quick and there's a little bit of that is what happened at Lytham even.  I wouldn't even go hit balls on that range because it's blowing left to right 25, and that just accentuated the slice I was already hitting, and I didn't want to look at it so I didn't hit balls and I managed to get it in fairways, figured out a way to play the golf course and go from there and make my short putts.  And I know that if I do those things this week, that I can win this golf tournament regardless of how I played the last few months and regardless of how I feel right now.

Q.  Do you take the same confidence to the golf course, specifically to the weekend that you did in '98?
DAVID DUVAL: I haven't played on the weekend a whole lot this year.  Do I?  You know what?  The best I felt this year and the most comfortable I felt on the golf course was the one time I kind of got in the mix on Sunday at Memorial.  That's the only time I felt really good out there.  That's because I felt I was where I should be.  I was certainly a little bit on the outside, but I was amongst the fray there and if I could throw in a couple of more birdies and post a number, I was golden, and you know, I had  -- there was no reason to think that I should have had a good week there, nothing leading up to it had been good, nothing after it has been good, but there, I just   -- I got it in play and I made a couple of putts, and I had a really bad first day and posted a couple of nice scores and started getting a little bit better and better, and the confidence was building, and the best I played was under the gun, that last day, and that goes again to Duke's question about why I feel I can win.
STEWART McDOUGAL:  David, thank you very much.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT