WGC EMC WORLD CUP
November 16, 2001
David Duval
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I think we played pretty well today.  Shot a score that was probably as high as we could have shot.  Should have been better.  But the good thing is that I think we both hit the ball a lot better than we did yesterday, so that's good for the next two days.  
 
TIGER WOODS:   I've got to agree with David.  We probably shot the highest score we could have shot today.  We hit the ball a lot better and made a few putts today.  It's just, we also made a few mistake, as well.  It could have been a really low number today, but that's just the way it goes.  And this format is awfully difficult to get into a rhythm, and we found it a little bit in the middle of the round.  But we just made our shares of mistakes a little bit, too, today.  
 
Q.  Yesterday you talked about ham-and-egging it, and you are known as a great scrambler; what's the key to that kind of scrambling?  Is it more the short game techniques or your mental attitude? 
 
TIGER WOODS:   I think what I meant by that was when the other person was out of it, the other person took over.  That's what I kind of meant by ham-and-egging it, hubby-wifing it, however you want to describe it.  We did that yesterday and today was a different format in which we both have to play well at the same time, and I think we did that today.  We just need to do tomorrow like what we did today, both play well at the same time and give us a chance to make some birdies because we are getting pretty far behind New Zealand.  Today my short game wasn't sharp at all, a few shots around the greens, but I made a few putts.  I wish I could have chipped the ball a little closer to give David a chance to make some putts but I didn't do that.  
 
Q.  This morning on the practice range, did you change something?  Did you adjust your swing a little bit? 
 
TIGER WOODS:   No.  I just found a better rhythm and better timing.  The swing positions felt about the same.  I matched up better coming through the ball.  
 
Q.  On No.  6, David, you hit your ball into the lake and you called for the rules official, can you explain that a little bit  -- Tiger, you dropped the ball?
 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I dropped it, and I wasn't really thinking, I dropped it for a red line, which it was a yellow line and the official just corrected me.  Re-dropped it and now dropped it into a drain; so then I had to take relief from the drain and that's where my ball ended up.  
 
Q.  Two questions for both of you.  The reason why that David you chose the odd holes and Tiger, you chose the even holes for your tee shots today, can you tell us when did you decide that? 
 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, we flipped a coin and I called heads and got tails.  (Laughter.) 
 
Q.  Is that true? 
 
TIGER WOODS:   That's it.  
 
Q.  Another question is New Zealand is leading the tournament now; I think tomorrow is a key to winning the tournament, do you think you are going to shoot in the 50s to catch them? 
 
TIGER WOODS:   I think it all depends on what they do today.  They are 15-under right now when we came in here.   If they get to 17-, 18-under, then we are eight shots back, with a format tomorrow that we have to make a lot of birdies to begin with.   Either case, we are going to have to go out there and play well tomorrow and make our share of birdies and then do the same thing on Sunday.  
 
Q.  Do you have confidence that you can shoot in the 50s after today's good round? 
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I think we are able to shoot in the 50s but we have to play well.  If we shoot 10- or 12-under tomorrow  -- I'm not the type of player that tries to think about shooting a certain score.  Just do what you can.  
 
Q.  You have kind of the same uniform today, is that to make you as a team, together? 
 
TIGER WOODS:   I think we both rolled out of bed and picked our own clothes and this is what we got.  
 
Q.  The reason why you shaved today? 
 
TIGER WOODS:   The reason why I shaved is because I played so poorly yesterday that  -- trying to change it up, just like when you play team sports, you put on, like in baseball, you put the cap on, change the leg positions and if you get on a roll with hits, whatever you need to do to change the flow.  
 
Q.  You shaved this morning? 
 
TIGER WOODS:   (Nods). 
 
Q.  Watching you guys, it seemed like you were misreading a lot of the greens, what was the difficulty with the greens on this golf course? 
 
TIGER WOODS:   Well, one, they are really fast.  And two, they are very tricky to read.  They are very subtle.  And to hit the ball at the pace we have to hit the ball, you have to be very precise and obviously, you have the influence of the mountain there and you have to make sure that you have a good feel for the line and make sure you putt the ball at the correct pace, and sometimes, they just don't go in.  
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I drove on the odd holes.  Tiger knocked it on the green with a 3-wood and 2-putted from 30 feet.  No.  6, I hit a 2-iron into the water.  Put it on and 2-putted from 12 feet.  No. 8, Tiger drove.  I hit an 8-iron 15 feet.  10, Tiger drove.  I hit a sand wedge to 18 feet.  11, I drove.  Tiger hit an iron short of the green.  I chipped on to six feet.  13, I hit a 5-iron to six feet and Tiger made it.  14, Tiger drove.  I hit into the green-side bunker.  Tiger hit it out and I missed the putt. 15, I drove.  Tiger hit an iron to six feet and I made it.  17, I missed the green to the right with a 4-iron.  Tiger chipped on and 2-putted  -- I one putted, he 2-putted.  18, Tiger drove a big, high, nasty ball.  I hit a 6-iron on the green and we 2-putted from 30 feet.  
 
Q.  This week, we have so many people watching the tournament, obviously, I think you're aware of the security, do you feel insecure or do you feel comfortable? 
 
TIGER WOODS:   I think the fans have been very nice and very courteous.  The security has tried to help us move around the golf course, which they have done a fantastic job of.  The people here have been very respectful of the players and what we are trying to do and trying to play.  
 
Q.  I think both of you are pretty much tired with the long flight coming over here to Japan, are you tired and are you feeling okay now? 
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I'm fine.  I've been here for 11 days.  So that's not an issue.  I don't know if you're looking for a reason as to why we played so bad the first day, but if you play bad, it's golf.  Just like I hit it in the water on 6.  I've hit it in the water before and I'm sure I'll do it again, so it's no big deal.  I feel great.  
 
Q.  How but Tiger? 
 
TIGER WOODS:   No, I feel great.  I've been in Asia since Friday night.  Hong Kong, and then I came here, actually, Chenzhen, and then I came here.  So I feel great.  I'm all adjusted to the time and the only thing would make me feel better would be to go out there and hit great shots and make a lot of putts.  
 
Q.  How about during nighttime, when you stay around in the golf course area, how is the Japanese food?  Have you tried it here? 
 
TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I've tried it.  I've always liked Japanese food.  I've had it just about every night.  
 
Q.  Especially what kind? 
 
TIGER WOODS:   Any kind of sushi, sashimi.  I'll pretty much try anything.  I'm not that hard.  
 
DAVID DUVAL:  I've enjoyed it.  I've only had one bad meal in two weeks.  So I get more than that in the States.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT