THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DYNEGY
November 3, 2001
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL: The fifth hole I hit a nice pull draw into the left trees and I guess it stayed in the rough there.  And I hit a really nice 8-iron out of the left rough.  And a big jumper that, over this one tree, kind of threw another up on to the green.  And then made a, what must have been probably 50 or 60 foot putt. 

Q.  What was the yardage again roughly?

DAVID DUVAL: I think it was about 180 to the front, 185 to the front of the green.  After that I don't know. 

DAVID DUVAL: Number six I hit into the left bunker and everything is kind of running right away and had a hard little shot and hit it about 20 feet up.  I hit a sand wedge about 8 feet from the hole.  The right rough.  Number 9 I hit a driver and I hit a 6 iron into the middle of the green and 3-putted from 50 feet.  What did I do on eight?  I made a birdie on eight.  I hit a 7 iron about 20 feet below the hole kind of to the right and made that. 

DAVID DUVAL: Number 12 I hit a four iron to the right and just to the right off the green in the first cut and chipped in with an 8-iron. 

DAVID DUVAL: How far?  I don't know.  65 feet probably, 70 feet.  I don't know.  Something like that.   I hit a driver and then hit a 2-iron onto the middle of the green and 2-putted from about 50 feet.  14 I hit a 7-iron about five feet from the hole.  6 I hit a 7-iron just short and right of the green and chipped in. 

DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. 

DAVID DUVAL: Thank you. 

DAVID DUVAL: Thanks.  Oh, yeah.  It's nice out.  It's a nice day, it's warm, the ball is going and there's not much wind.  The course is in perfect shape.  It's there to be had. 

Q.  The first two rounds it just appeared to me you were playing that well, and well enough to really post low numbers each day.  Today you held on to it and made the breaks.  But what was really the difference?  Was it your swinging or just they went in the hole today?

DAVID DUVAL: It was just, the difference was just about making a birdie where I made triple and the two other bogeys.  (Laughter.) That's six shots.  That's  -- I played real well yesterday and shot 9-under, with some mistakes.  I played pretty well the day before and just didn't capitalize on a lot of my opportunities, and today I did.  That's it.  That's the only difference. 

Q.  Was this expected on this course, these kind of scores?

DAVID DUVAL: I think they can be, yes.  Really, you get these players on most any course and if you don't have  -- the rough here this year, it's not as bad as it has been in the past I don't think.  The greens aren't hard either.  I guess I heard somebody say they're way over on rain for the year.  Maybe that's why they're a little bit softer conditions.  So it, even some of the shots where you hit out of the rough and you're hitting fliers, they're stopping as well,  and then they're perfect shape and they're in a real good speed.  That's just a mixture for low scores. 

Q.  Did yesterday's triple enter your mind at all out there, or did you just put that aside?

DAVID DUVAL: On that hole when I tee'd off again? 

Q.  At any point.

DAVID DUVAL: Not really.  After I hit my tee shot there I kind of figured that's a little bit better spot this time.  But that hole yesterday was, so many things went wrong on one hole that it was kind of like that lie I got in the playoff last week.  It was just too much to even worry about.  So I didn't think about it. 

Q.  When you throw out that score, I know you can't but as far as hitting the ball, that's probably the best two rounds you put together since July?  Or what do you think?

DAVID DUVAL: Could be.  I played real well last week as well, I think.  And I've just really continued that since last week.  I've had the chance to have a bunch of low scores in a row.  And I've just been close but I've kept good scores together but I hadn't had it real low every day.  But I've probably, I think, in general, have hit it a little bit better this week than last week.  And that's because I have kept it in play a little bit better.  I've been able to hit it off the tee this week. 

Q.  How would you, if you could, sum up your year as far as, is it just basically the British Open and some highs and lows or what?

DAVID DUVAL: Well it's hard to think of a whole lot else because of that.  I think that it was a very good year all in all, actually.  I had to miss some events because I hurt my wrist.  I had a good chance to win at Augusta, had kind of an outside shot at the U. S. Open.  I started a little far back.  I won the Open Championship and then had a bit of a chance on Sunday at the PGA.  And then I think that I played real well to start the year off.  I didn't score very well in Maui.  I think I played well one other time on the west coast maybe.  I played pretty good at the Nelson.  I had a couple events here and there.  I think the thing that I've lacked this year and the same as last year and I don't know if it's due to the injury, but it's the consistencies that I had in '97, ' 98, '99.  That's what I haven't had. 

Q.  Is that related to putting?

DAVID DUVAL: Some of it absolutely.  I think in general that I have putted better.  In that stretch I just mentioned, as opposed to the last year.  I holed more but that has  -- I really think I started to change that and it's turned around and I think I really started putting good again. 

Q.  On the range this week throughout the week you were driving the ball just super.  You just were solid over it hitting it the way you wanted.  Were you able to take that to the course and is that what put you in such good position today, and in effect, the other two days?

DAVID DUVAL: No, I don't think that I've hit it as well off the tee on the course as I have on the practice range.  Actually, I've hit it good, so you can -- I don't know.  I just hit good shots really.  As much as anything kind of like last week.  I hit good iron shots whether out of the fairway or the rough.  I hit good shots and kept them on the greens and have made some putts.  And I don't know other than that. 

Q.  What else is there?

DAVID DUVAL: You tell me, Ed. 

Q.  You said earlier that you had to have a mindset to go low?

DAVID DUVAL: Yeah.

Q.  Could you expand on that for us a little bit.

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I think that kind of what I mean is that it's real easy to fall into that trap of starting to protect your score.  You pick up four, five, six shots quickly, and I think it can be easy to protect your score because that's a good score if you can post it for a round of golf.  But I don't know why but I think it's just something you learn growing up, maybe, and not everyone has that.  For me when I start doing that, I am thinking more and more and more.  And really actually shots I might be aiming right or left I start kind of pulling them back more towards the flags.  That little leeway I give myself, I don't give myself as much anymore.  Trying to get that much closer. 

Q.  So the better you play the more aggressive you get?

DAVID DUVAL: Yeah.  Really.  Under any circumstance pretty much. 

Q.  Is that what you mentioned to your father, is that what his mindset is?

DAVID DUVAL: I don't know.  I don't know if that's exactly his mindset.  But I just watched him and learned that growing up.  We played a course where I grew up playing, and no, it's not Champions, but still when you make eight or nine birdies you still are hitting a lot of good shots and making putts.  I watched him shoot a lot of 63s, 62s, 64s.  It just rubbed off a bit, I think. 

Q.  Do you remember a specific round as a kid?

DAVID DUVAL: Do I? 

Q.  Yeah. 

DAVID DUVAL: One of the ones I remember the most is the first time I shot sub 30 for nine holes.  It was on the back nine there and I just kind of remember playing the hole and getting done and asking my dad and a friend of ours, Doc Moore, who was playing with me on the 18th tee, if they knew where I was.  And they said, oh, yeah, we just didn't want to say anything.  So that was really one of the low scores I remember.  Just I could never  -- for some reason it took a long time to break 30 for nine.  And I don't know, how long did it take you?  (Laughter.)

Q.  Six holes?  How old were you roughly?

DAVID DUVAL: Probably 14, 15. 

Q.  Last week you played a 7200 yard course at the Buy.Com Championship.  Champions is not short but you guys are just ripping it up.  What kind of golf course are we going to see in a few years that are going to tame scoring to the point where we're not going to  -- we have a problem with you guys shooting 63.  But you know how the USGA and other people react?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I think that if the rough was thicker, I think if anything the rough, it's not that short.  It's fairly long in places, it's just kind of thin, and spotty.  And if you had that, and the greens were hard, kind of matched to the fairways, you wouldn't see that.  And then you don't have  -- we haven't had any wind to speak of.  We had some yesterday.  A little bit.  But it wasn't really that much and I think you look at -- I don't know.  I don't think it's necessarily a bad thing that's going on in the game.  And it seems to me that the people that are arguing think it is.  And some things change, and sports evolve.  And certainly equipment is better.  But if some of the older players had the chance to use it back then, they would be grabbing it too.  

Q.  Particularly an event like this, doesn't it seem appropriate that it would be a shootout like this ?  I mean it's the best players?

DAVID DUVAL: I think it's great.  I do.  I think it's great to see the guys who have really  -- I guess you could say they have played the best, the 29 guys who have played the best this year here, and really seeing them shoot good scores and play well.  I think that's a good thing. 

Q.  Is there a number you have in mind for tomorrow?

DAVID DUVAL: Not really.  I have never done that.  You just don't know what conditions will be.  And I think that you can hurt yourself because you might start pressing then or you might get protective if you reach that number, again, kind of what we were talking about about shooting low scores, so I just go play.


Q.  What did you make in that last hole when you shot 29?

DAVID DUVAL:  Made birdie, or, I mean, I made par.  I was like 7-under through 18. 

Q.  You lag it up there, kind of played it safe?

DAVID DUVAL: I don't know, I don't remember how I made the par.  I just remember I made a par.  I might have protected that that one time.  (Laughter.)


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT