PUERTO RICO OPEN
March 5, 2015
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Challenging day.   How did you feel out there?
DAVID DUVAL:   Oh, I feel great.   I felt great at 18 tee.   I putted real poor, so actually, with some of my Golf Channel dude, I asked Brandle because he's the stat guy, I kind of told him about my sitting stats, and I'm like everything's better.   I said my putting was minus 2.4 for the week. 
He goes, minus 2.24, that's not so‑‑ I said, no, minus 2.4.   He goes yeah, that's not good.   That's like four or five shots a day, you know, to the best putter. 
But no, I played well.   It was a hard day.   Hard out there.   Hard to get close to the hole.   A lot of cross winds, you know, which makes it that much more challenging.   But I was happy all in all.

Q.   What was your strength of the day?   Was it ball striking? 
DAVID DUVAL:   Really, I hit it good and I putted really well.   So I made a couple to keep me going, two‑putted several times from 25 to 40 feet and didn't have to sweat over the second one, you know, where it's kind of rolled up a foot or two.   So that kind of made it as stressless as it could be with‑‑ you know, I hit a lot of greens, but like I said, it was hard to get real close, and so you're facing some challenging putts and I didn't really have to sweat over too many second putts.   So that was good.

Q.   Are there some observations you make now doing some TV that kind of you can bring back out inside the ropes, stuff you're seeing and‑‑
DAVID DUVAL:   If anything, I'd say it's one of the things that I was so good at before, but now when you see so much more golf, it's like it's amazing how many bad golf shots we hit, you know. 
And I mean you get out there when you're pressed and you don't feel like you can miss them.   Heck, you watch some guys, we hit terrible shots‑‑ I hit a terrible shot on 17 off the tee.   What does it matter.   Hit a bad shot.   And when you're not really kind of paying attention to that, you think you have to fire on all cylinders at all times and that's truly not the case.

Q.   And what's the balance for you right now with TV and playing?
DAVID DUVAL:   Playing here, and then next I know of it like Memphis.   Well, let me preface that.   I'm making the assumption.   I have a great relationship with the people there in Memphis.   I'm assuming I'll probably get the spot again.   I can't make that assumption, but I think so. 
And then try U.S. Open qualifying, Open Championship, got a good shot of getting in John Deere.   Got a great relationship with them.   Been going there a long time, but maybe they're going a different direction this year.   I don't know.   We'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT