WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 22, 2001
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL:   Looking for good weather good, golf and another win.  Pretty simple.  So I'm pleased with how I played at the PGA.  Not very pleased with my putting on the greens, and for as well as it was at the British, it was that bad at Atlanta.  That's how it goes, comes and goes.  Glad to be back.  I could not play last year.  I was hurt.  Just got in.  Going to go out and practice a little bit and be ready to go.


Q.  What was wrong with the putting, besides the fact they didn't go in, anything technical about it? 

DAVID DUVAL:   I don't think so.  If anything I think I might have had the ball a little forward in my stance, which adds loft hitting it and not getting a solid hit.  I just really struggled. 


Q.  Bernhard Langer said yesterday at that No. 4, it's going to play real long for him.  Do you think you'll be hitting shorter irons than most of the players, especially on the front nine par 4s? 

DAVID DUVAL:   I would imagine I'll hit less club than most people.  I hit it further than most of them.  I'm one of the longer hitters and I haven't been out there so I don't know how it's playing, but I hit shorter clubs in Atlanta last week than a lot of people, so I imagine that will carry over.  Is it wet, is that why? 


Q.  Surprised me when Langer said he would hit 3-wood on No. 4. 

DAVID DUVAL:   That's a long hole.  Hard hole. 


Q.  The Firestone course has stood the test of time and has challenged so many great players and I know you've been here several times, just your thoughts on the layout and the way it plays for you, sir. 

DAVID DUVAL:   I like it.  I think it has stood the test of time will and that makes you  -- I would think that it makes you question that everybody says that the golf courses are too short.  I mean, this one stood up fine.  The winning scores don't tend to be very low here.  I'd played well here.  I won here a few years ago and then did well the following year and then couldn't play last year.  I think those are the only times I've played.  But I think it sets up good for me. 


Q.  Did you notice a different atmosphere at the PGA last week towards you from fans and so forth after you had won the British? 

DAVID DUVAL:   Yeah, it seemed a bit  -- people were excited for me.  Happy for me.  Had a huge following Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday.  Not so much as you got to like 10, 11, 12 on Sunday then it kind of got pretty thin, the crowd.  The golf in our group was not very good that day. So, it was different, absolutely, than it has been in the past. 


Q.  David Toms was talking the other day about how many phone calls he's getting how hectic it is after first winning a major.  Can you relate to that, or might it have been different for you since you were more of a known commodity when you won the Open?

DAVID DUVAL:   I couldn't really answer that because I don't know what's happened with him.  It is certainly very busy afterwards, and I imagine he's tired.  I'm still tired.  I've been real busy since the British Open, and I have a little bit of time after this week, off.  Yeah, it changes things.  You get calls from a lot of different people.  A lot of notice from a lot of different people.  It's exciting.


Q.  Did you get a lot of offers?  Did you notice a ton coming in, whether it was endorsement opportunities or overseas opportunities?  Did that pick up? 

DAVID DUVAL:   I think it has some.  I don't keep up with it much, myself.  That's what Charlie's job is.  You know, like I said, I don't plan on changing things.  I'm sure there will probably be some adjustments, if there's some places that I think I'm a good fit, I might move forward with things like that, but not going to be much of a drastic change of schedule or appearances or anything like that.


Q.  Have you ever had a hard time saying no? 

DAVID DUVAL:   Never. 


Q.  Did you hear from anybody you were surprised to hear from, either long-lost friends or a celebrity of note after your win?  Was there any surprising messages you got,? 

DAVID DUVAL:   Not really.  I heard from a lot of people.  A lot of notes, like I said, congratulatory notes.  I don't know if I would say any were unexpected.  I don't know  -- I shouldn't say that, but no really surprises. 


Q.  Phil said after he lost  -- didn't win the PGA, he would have thought if he'd have broken through there he would have had a shot at Player of the Year.  Have you thought about that at all, since you have a major win, could you see some things happening down the road this year that could put you in that position?

DAVID DUVAL:   Well, I imagine  -- I haven't thought about it, but I'm playing five more tournaments maybe.  I'm not sure exactly how many more.  You know, win a World Golf Championship or the two remaining TOUR Championships, I haven't really thought about it, but I would imagine it would take something along those lines.


Q.  Are you going to go to Japan? 

DAVID DUVAL:   Planning on it. 


Q.  What do you expect over there?  You had such a great experience last year in Argentina; Japanese fans are very into golf. 

DAVID DUVAL:   I don't know what to expect.  I imagine it is going to be quite a scene, a real zoo.  But it will be exciting.  I hope it's not a hassle, though.  I hope it doesn't get to that point.


Q.  What stood out last year in the trip to Argentina?  You had a lot of fun there? 

DAVID DUVAL:   I did.  The things that stood out to me the most were the paparazzi.  That's what I remember the most.  When we got to the hotel, upon arriving in Argentina, you know, how they would follow us to restaurants  -- "us," how they were following Tiger to the restaurants.  (Laughter.) How they waited outside.  That was just quite a scene to me.   Guys riding backwards on a motorcycle, someone else is driving it, and trying to take pictures and stuff.  Just crazy stuff.  I don't understand it.


Q.  Anything about the golf that stood out?  You carried Tiger a couple days.

DAVID DUVAL:   Just four.  (Laughter.) It was a joke.  You know, we played well.  We played together well and fed off each other.  You know, I like playing with him because he's kind of  -- I think he takes the approach that I do and it's something that I don't like in the team competition  -- when I play with a partner, there's no apologies.  Don't ever apologize to me, say I'm sorry or I didn't mean to do this.  If you say you're sorry or something, it means you might not have been trying, so I expect them to be trying and you don't expect to be hitting in the water off a tee and you don't expect to be missing a 3-footer.  You are trying to play well.  That's kind of my only rule of team play is no apologies.  We played really well and it was fun to win.  You know I got a real kick out of the first  tee on the first day and in the first fairway.  We played with Angel and Eduardo Romero.  There was a lot of cameras, obviously, the gallery was with us.  The guy got a nice, full swing sequence of me on the first tee, the first fairway.  Don't worry about me, I'm just out here trying to play.  I won't get in the way of your pictures.  It was funny.  But they were really good about talking with the people about trying to give us the respect to play and such.


Q.  I know that a lot of times you don't like to look too far down the road and sometimes I think you get angry with me when I ask  you about it --

DAVID DUVAL:   I never get angry with you, Ed.


Q.  Do you promise?

DAVID DUVAL:  No. (Laughter.)


Q.  I've got to ask you this   --

DAVID DUVAL:  No.


Q.  On paper that Ryder Cup team you're on is just in aces and makes it look like Curtis has got like so many great combinations. 

DAVID DUVAL:  Right. 


Q.  I just wonder your thoughts on the team as you know it is now? 

DAVID DUVAL:   I wonder why  -- and I don't mean it from you, but why such a question would be asked.  I mean, you talk about it every Ryder Cup, on paper.  Well, who cares about on paper.  It just has no bearing in the golf.  That's why you've got to play.  Yeah, sure on paper, we look pretty strong, but still got to play.  A couple of those other team that is looked really, really strong on paper got dusted pretty well.  So you've got to play. 


Q.  Is the rest of you're taking partly designed to conserve energies for the Ryder Cup?

DAVID DUVAL:   Yeah, it's part of it.  It's stuff that was planned, as well.


Q.  Can you talk about how you felt the last time, the intensity of Sunday?

DAVID DUVAL:   It's a long week.  You start early.  You're out there all day, basically dark to dark.  It's an emotional drain.  And then to be a part of the play on Sunday, where, you know, we came back so much.  That was just  -- it's tiring, and then the celebration is tiring, too.  They are long weeks, but their well worth it.  It's fun.


Q.  Do you think you will be paired with Tiger? 

DAVID DUVAL:   I don't know.  I sure hope so. 


Q.  Varying schools of thought, obviously?

DAVID DUVAL:   I sure hope so but I don't know.  I have not spoken  -- Tiger and I have talked about it, but I haven't spoken about it with Curtis or Mike Hulbert, really. 


Q.  Would you prefer one of the formats over the other? 

DAVID DUVAL:   I enjoy the alternate-shot format a lot.  I don't know why.  You would think that it's a harder format, but to get a rhythm and to pair up, but I just enjoy that format.


Q.  Might that be some of that no apology approach? 

DAVID DUVAL:   It could be.  It could be.  You're out there trying -- that is the most  -- that format is the one that you become more of a team, during that format the most, because it's two men who it's playing one ball, one game. 


Q.  Any apologies at Bighorn?

DAVID DUVAL:   Not from me.  My policy, no apologies. 


Q.  Are their fans different than our fans in regard to things like this  -- I don't want you to bash our fans if you want to  --

DAVID DUVAL:   Yeah, you do.  (Laughs) I think the difference over there is that the fans are  -- have been fans longer, I guess.  You know, it's not as  -- the fan base here is growing and its new fans are coming into the game.  Over there, they have been fans longer and they understand the game better as a whole, you know, I think is the difference.  I think that's the difference. 


Q.  What was your reaction when you found out Zinger was on the team and what do you think he will bring? 

DAVID DUVAL:   I was very happy.  I thought that was a great choice.  I think that what he will add to the team some fire, you know, a lot of heart.  I think, really, some rah-rah leadership kind of stuff.  I think that will be part of what Paul brings.


Q.  Coming off of last week's major, is it more demanding this week?  How do you deal with that, the mental and the physical?  Is there any exhaustion because of the purse and the field here at this tournament?

DAVID DUVAL:   I deal with it by not playing on Monday Tuesday or today, is how I'm going to.  Just try to rest, you know.  I know the golf course.  Certainly might play a little hand; it has in the past, I don't know.  But basically I know the lines to play and to take.  You know, just for me, it's kind of what I've said about going into other things.  It's very important to get rested and right now, I've been very busy since the British, just  -- I was going to be, regardless, had I won or not, stretch through this week was going to be very busy.  More so than I'm used to.  I find it very important for me as an individual to find a couple days here and there to really forget about golf, and that's really what I've tried to do the last few days.


Q.  You talked at Atlanta about the strain that must have been on Tiger Woods, to win the Masters this year.  Do you think it's reasonable for us to expect him to win every week, to win this week, for instance?

DAVID DUVAL:   No, I don't know it's reasonable.  We all know how difficult this game is, and you can look at historical winning percentages, and certainly his is great right now.  Probably higher right now than most players.  But I would imagine that that percentage will go down as his career goes longer.  You just can't win every week.  Again, you're talking about how poorly he's playing and the slump he's in and he's won four times, including the Masters, and the other Major, THE PLAYERS Championship.  It's just been a disastrous year, again, I guess.  (Laughter.) I know you're not saying that, but it's just funny when people talk of how bad he's playing and the slump he's in and such.  I guess he hasn't missed a cut in five years or something, so it's just expectations are different for him. 


Q.  Are we seeing him more in real human terms now than when he seemed to be winning every time he went out? 

DAVID DUVAL:   I can't answer that.  I don't know. 


Q.  Does it take  -- discovery, not to belabor the point, but does it take not winning for a while for us to realize that's a human being at 25? 

DAVID DUVAL:   Well, you would think so.  But I guess you answered your own question when you stop asking it, really.  How long does it take for you to think of it that way and realize that; he's a human.  I guess you realize that when you stop asking why he's not winning every week.  I think that's the answer.


Q.  You said earlier that you are still tired from the British and dealing with the fall out and everything else.  When your paths have crossed with Tiger this year, either Bighorn or a practice round or anything, has everyone told you that he's tired because of what he went through? 

DAVID DUVAL:   No.  He hasn't. 


Q.  Even when you know  -- maybe this isn't a slump, is it always in the back of your mind that he's here; you never discount him, I would assume? 

DAVID DUVAL:   No.  I don't discount him, but he's not always in the back of my mind, either.  I wasn't playing Saturday and Sunday at the PGA  -- I won't worry about Tiger.  I was worrying about me again.  I don't get caught up in it that way.  Certainly it's easier to do that when hes not on top of the board, because then he's one of the guys you are chasing.  But not in the back of my mind.


Q.  How much do you play the game or how much do you play against your opponents?

DAVID DUVAL:   Well, I just play the game.  It's different in match play.  You're playing your opponent a fair amount, too.  But I play the game and the medal-play events, and that's what we play the majority of the time. 


Q.  Just curious, whatever pressure you felt at the Ryder Cup in '99 differed from what you may have felt standing over that putt in Palm Springs or the Open or what have you? 

DAVID DUVAL:   I don't know if I can differentiate between the different pressures.  It's great in all of those circumstances.  I think the one thing that has added into the Ryder Cup is that might not be in the  -- when you're playing on your own is that there's 11 other guys who are part of that outcome. 


Q.  What about the no apologies theory?

DAVID DUVAL:   Well, I think that has nothing to do with it when you are hitting golf shots and out there trying.  That doesn't apply  -- I don't think you can apply that the same way.


Q.  Do you feel it, if you don't perform you are letting 11 down; is that what you're saying?

DAVID DUVAL:   No, actually it's not.  I'm just making up something for you to write.  (Laughter.)


Q.  Well, it's often said that you are playing for your country and you are playing for your country, I just wondered if there's anything more to that  --

DAVID DUVAL:   I don't think so.  I think a lot is made of it because such great emphasis is put on the outcome of the Ryder Cup Matches, by the fans and by the writers and by the players, by the PGA of America, by their counterparts in Europe.  I would imagine it is the same thing.  The PGA folks want you to win.  They want to hold on to the Ryder Cup.  You are out there doing the best you can.  When we played in Melbourne and just got killed; it's not because we weren't trying.  It's just because we got killed.  You know, we're going to go to The Belfry and try to win again.  You know, I'll do the best I can when I'm there.


Q.  We always bring up hype usually on certain players, certain majors of the year and lot of you guys say you don't pay attention to that.  Are you aware of the hype over the Ryder Cup more so than any other major or any other tournament?

DAVID DUVAL:   Well, I'm not this year.  I was in '99, I think.  But not this year.  Simply because I probably haven't read much about it.  I haven't read what's been written in the periodicals and things like that.  I think that people are wondering exactly how  -- what the atmosphere is going to be like, the behavior I don't remember of players and fans.  It's kind of like my  -- in my view, it's almost like maybe not as much has been written and said about it because no one knows exactly what's going to happen or what to anticipate.  Is that okay? 


Q.  One more follow-up  -- my fifth in a row, I think.  You talked about Zinger a minute ago.  What do you think Scott Hoch is going to bring this team, into the locker room? 

DAVID DUVAL:   Well, he's a great player.  A great competitor.  I think he's kind of like one of those little bulldogs that won't let go of your leg.  And he's played tremendously well this year, as much as most people out here, really.  So I would expect a lot from him over there in his performance.


Q.  Do you want to be as pumped up as you were on that Sunday at Brookline? 

DAVID DUVAL:   I do when it's done, yes, because that will mean the outcome was how we wanted. 


Q.  But not  -- no, that won't be conducive for good play from me.  You were pretty pumped up? 

DAVID DUVAL:   At the end, absolutely.  I was excited and it built and as it got further and further ahead, I got more jacked up.  But I certainly wouldn't want to play from the end result, I couldn't manage. 


Q.  How much of an advantage do you think it will be for the team, the American team, just to have won the last Ryder Cup and the way it was won? 

DAVID DUVAL:   How much of an advantage? 


Q.  Do you think you have, if any? 

DAVID DUVAL:   I think it will be a good  -- it's a great thing for us, taking over there mentally.  But I think it's also a great motivator for the European team.  I think it might almost counterbalance itself, really.  I feel that had I been on the other end, it would be a great motivation for me to not lose again.  So, I imagine it will be very tough golf, tough matches. 


Q.  Given that the majors are over, do you have to fight to get your normal intensity back on a Thursday?  I know you're trying to rest leading up to these things now, or does it just automatically comeback when you get out there? 

DAVID DUVAL:   Well, that's a good question.  I think that's where being a professional takes over.  You really  -- you know, I have a duty to myself and to Nike and to the fans here and to the tournament director and to the people who are volunteering, to really  -- you know, I'm here to play and do my best and work hard and not just to go through the motions.  I think at times, you have to be conscious of that and this could very well be one of the times where you've got to be conscious, hey I'm not here to go through the motion.  I'm out here to play and do my best and work hard. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT