PGA TOUR MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 27, 2001
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







DAVID DUVAL: I don't remember the trip.  (Laughter).  No.  It was a long trip, but a lot of fun.  Next day not a whole lot of sleep.  But that was okay.  It all kind of happened so quick really, the end of it, the golf tournament was over, champagne toasts with the R&A, go back to the house, pack up, shower real quick, left the grounds about 9 o'clock, so kind of whirlwind, but then we got on the airplane and had a grand time obviously.  We had a nice party with friends and family on Wednesday.  I don't know, it just has been really nice. 

Q.  Did Tiger say anything in particular to you in way of congratulations?

DAVID DUVAL: I haven't seen him actually.  (Inaudible) They had to leave too.  I was told -- they were supposed to leave -- he had finished, I don't know, an hour or two hours before I did, they ended up hanging around.  He hung around to see me finish; then he was under that same time pressure having to run, get out of there a certain time.  But he hung around and watched me finish. 

Q.  Was there one hole or one shot on Sunday that you thought to yourself:  I have got this thing, unless somebody shoots a 63 behind me, it's looks pretty good today?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, nobody was behind me so it was all up to me.  I think making birdie coming back on 13 was important after that bogey but I think if anything I won the golf tournament after the 13th.  I hit it in the rough off the tee and had   - I don't even know the final yards, but I think it was about 230 yards, 210 yards to the front.  And it was a shot that I could hit anywhere really with that high grass.  I knocked it on the green, I think that's what, barring some real mental mistakes,  I think I won the golf tournament right there. 

Q.  Your dad had said that he thought that you would win the British Open first, that would be your first major.  Your mom said she had a nice dinner with you a couple of weeks ago and had a good feeling.  Did you have this feeling going into it?  Did you have this feeling as well going into it?

DAVID DUVAL: Not really.  If anything playing so far this year, I always felt the least comfortable over there, just from my golf swing.  Like I said, I didn't hit it very good the first couple of days.  I was having a hard time on the range because the turf was -- I think it was fairly new, a year old, and you'd hit into it, it would just grab your club and you couldn't get through the ground very well.  It was into the wind and left-to-right, a hole where (inaudible) real hard left-to-right, so any time I tend to miss shots that go right anyway, and now they are getting exaggerated.  I am just thinking I am blowing it way right every time.  But I didn't feel anything special this week.  I did feel great about my putting.  (Inaudible).

Q.  Did you take the trophy to your party?  Have you been showing that off, taking it around to friends?

DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, well, I didn't get home 'til Tuesday night, but yeah, we had it Wednesday night at the party.  Absolutely. 

Q.  Besides yourself, was it being passed around...

DAVID DUVAL: (Inaudible) Everybody had their photos taken with it and they drank out of it and a couple of friends who were English were just besides themselves, actually because they didn't  -- they didn't imagine they would ever get to hold this trophy.

Q.  Were you worrying about getting it back in one piece?

DAVID DUVAL: No, I think it has gone through the roughest stretch so far and it's made it okay and I don't foresee there being any problems now.  Certainly the first couple of nights there was a little concerns here and there.

Q.  (Inaudible) Where did you take it?

DAVID DUVAL: I took it to the golf course on Monday.  The Canadian Skin folks had asked for me to bring it to display it for the crowd and they put it out on the 1st tee and then after that it was locked up with the exception of times that it was taken out for photos with the tournament folks.

Q.  Were there any gestures, e-mails from any of the fellow players, anybody else since you won this that is more (inaudible)--

DAVID DUVAL: Not -- one hasn't meant more than another, really.  It's just -- I think the thing I have noticed is that people look at you differently.  People are looking at me differently now, I think.  That's all I can say really.  I just think they  -- you just kind of get held in a different regard maybe.  I don't know, but congratulations have been from everybody and obviously they are much appreciated, but, no, not one has meant more than another.

Q.  Are you prepared the rest of your life to -- you are now British Open Champion, major championship winner David Duval, it will be for the rest of your life?

DAVID DUVAL: I have prepared for that for 25 years so I am ready for it.

Q.  (Inaudible)

DAVID DUVAL: I think so.  The world we live in in golf it's seems like a tight community and a good bunch of people, but of the majors, I think this one is as far reaching as any.  It is almost thought of as the World Open, and the representation of players is pretty great there at that event and I don't  -- I didn't realize the impact of it and who paid attention to it, it was -- people on the street in Toronto were coming up, work crews across the street were yelling at me.  It's just really been an amazing reception.

Q.  I read that you had 15 Top-10s before you won your first Tour event.  Then you rattled off three in a row.  Did you envision something like that with the majors now that the so-called monkey is off your back and you will get on a roll?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, yeah, sure, I think so.  I contended in a lot of them the last -- I had a chance to win one on Sunday five of the last six I've played in (inaudible) sure, I think I have done a good job of getting there so much now that I might know the difference of what it takes.  It my help if I continue to get myself there. 

Q.  You say that people look at you differently.   Do you look at yourself differently?  Do you feel the same this week than you did last week?

DAVID DUVAL: No, I don't see myself differently and I don't necessarily feel different.  The one thing I can say is that the question I got asked a little bit, not a whole lot, nothing like Mark O'Meara did and I guess Colin Montgomerie gets asked because he is approaching 40, you know, about will your career be complete if you haven't won one.  And being on the other side of that question five days ago, you know, you can sit there and with all honesty, I can tell you now when they tell you, yeah, I think so, I prepare, you know, I try, it is not like they are not trying to win, and I guess they would be in a sense, but I think the enormity of winning one is far greater than you can imagine after you have done it.  You just don't quite understand the difference.  And I don't  -- the feeling of playing the Open is a lot different than the other events I've won, and I think that's -- it's really just an amazing thing.

Q.  Now that there are so many things people will wait to ask you, do you think people will stop asking you about your equipment change and your back and your putting?

DAVID DUVAL: No, I don't.  Maybe not so much about the equipment, but I am sure it will just be about my health now, even more so, you know, I will probably be in the spotlight a  bit more with how sharp my game is, you know, that's all fine.  I am ready for it.

Q.  You look happier.  Do you feel happy?  You have got that smile  --

DAVID DUVAL:  It is not a sense of relief, but it is just a great sense of accomplishment, you know, and like I said, it is just a different feeling.  I think that none of the questions that have been asked in the past can never be asked again.  Certainly, you know, I might have more chances that I might succeed and some of them I might fail and I will be ridiculed for it, but you can't ever question   -- I could never be questioned again about whether I will be able to do it and that -- it's a pretty neat feeling. 

Q.  You do not have a sense of relief, people asking why you hadn't won one....

DAVID DUVAL: I wasn't in doubt that I would.  Like I said, even Saturday, I have done it before.  I have been here and I have shown that I can do it and I know I can.  And it is just a matter of actually finishing and doing it, winning, but like I said, it is just a feeling  -- I don't have a feeling of relief from what happened, I have a feeling of accomplishment and that's the best way I can put it.

Q.  (Inaudible)
?
DAVID DUVAL: After I hit the shot on 15, that shot there wasn't anything else I was going to try and do.  I wasn't chipping out at that point.  I had it there.  And I just -- it's funny, somebody said something to me when I was walking to the 11th tee.  They said, don't worry David, you have been here before, you can still mess up.  I said you know what, I have been here and I have done that, but not today.    Today is my day.  I am doing it today.  And I faced that shot there and I had no idea where to hit it to lay up.  It never entered my mind to lay up.   Kind of after that came off where I wanted, I just really felt in control.  Certainly a couple of the putts I would have liked to have been closer for my first putts, but more so on 16 and 17 because 17 I hit it exactly where I wanted to, into the green, but I was just going -- I had made a decision, I got three holes left and I am going to rely on my putter, I have done it for 69 holes so far and it hasn't failed me, and so I didn't get aggressive at all, put it in play and moved on.

Q.  Was that  somebody in the gallery?

DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, just somebody.

Q.  Did you actually say something back to him?

DAVID DUVAL: No, I was walking and passing up thinking to myself:  Not today. 

Q.  Does it happen a lot?  Does it happen at Tour events?

DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, a lot of people have said -- I haven't heard.  Friends of mine, family have heard it in the galleries.  A lot more that goes on than people realize heckling and stuff.  I just happened to hear it there and I mean, I was close to him.  It kind of  -- it was a good thing in a sense really because at that point I realized I was completely in control, I think.  I just  -- I hadn't got ahead of myself.  I think I just realized at that point:  Not today, it's not happening today.  This is my day.  They were hard holes, I had 8 to play.  I was just thinking about how good I felt, how I was playing and putting.

Q.  Are you going to change anything in your schedule for the rest of the year?  And are you going to at this early juncture sit down and talk and try not  to do too much with the demands on your time, corporate outings, interviews, extra events?

DAVID DUVAL: It's a good question, I think you should all know me well enough that it is not going to change.  I have walked away from a lot of it so far.  I am going to continue to walk away from it.  It's just not what I  want to do.  When I see these articles that just blast me about the Ryder Cup stuff, about the money here, and money there, people are just naive to how much money I turn down every year to keep my schedule where it is so I can play the best golf I can.  I am not adding any single event to my schedule.  I am not taking anything off my schedule the rest of this year.  There's two events we have been talking to before the British Open, one of which I might do.  If I do them, it will only be one, I will not do both. And I haven't even decided to do that.  I guess I will be adding probably be adding the Grand Slam in Hawaii (inaudible).  That is it really.  And I don't imagine I can change next year.  Corporate outings, I just -- I limit them (inaudible) I found them in the past to be -- they are just not what I need to do to prepare to win golf tournaments.  So I will not add a bunch of them.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT