VERIZON BYRON NELSON CLASSIC
May 11, 2001
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL:   No great thoughts here.  Just I played good.  Continued like I did last week where I played really well, didn't get much out of my tournament last week, didn't score very well, but hit it as good as I have for four days in a long time and kind of continue to hit it solid here.


Q.  Since the injury and starting with the Masters you played really well.  Do you think it's all because you got the injury behind you and all that?

DAVID DUVAL:   Well, sure.  I mean it's nice not to play with a problem, but it's not like I was playing with a wrist problem before that.  You know, there was just a lot of other hoopla going on, and just wasn't making any putts, and then I hit it really good at Augusta, played pretty well at Houston.  I probably wasn't quite ready to play, though.  And played beautiful last week.  Really pleased with how I played last week.  Actually probably hit the ball better last week than I have so far this week in general, but not like I haven't hit it really well this week either. 


Q.  You say a lot of hoopla, probably talking about a lot off-the-course stuff.  Do you feel like that's subsided?

DAVID DUVAL:   It doesn't seem like ya'll are writing about it right now and I don't think there is a story really, and to be perfectly honest with you, I don't know why it's happening myself.  So it's just I think that's just how the process works.  It's just slow and arduous and I don't know where it stands. 


Q.  Following up on that, in a sense do you feel like the intensity of it's faded?

DAVID DUVAL:   You know, it's something I kind of personally I've put behind me.  I don't know if the other parties involved have.  I don't think they have, obviously, but it's just, I guess it takes a while because it's the first time I've been involved in something like that.  Takes a while to realize that there's really nothing you can do about it and you can't hope for some certain time frame or hoping it ends here.  I mean it just has to play itself out and that's just what has taken me a little while to learn, and now that I have, it's not even something that -- I haven't even given it a thought for six,  eight weeks.  I haven't even thought about it.


Q.  David, when you say you're hitting it well, does that mean you're hitting it in the middle of the face or where you want it?  What does that mean?

DAVID DUVAL:   Hitting it solid.  Hitting the ball solid just about every time, and therefore, I can move the golf ball different ways, and that's really it.  I mean just hitting it solid and being able to control the ball. 


Q.  David, is there, I don't know, is it a learning process?  You're talking about off-the-course stuff, but even on the course there's always speculation about how someone's going to react when they have a disappointment, like you've had some, but seems like you come back.  Is that something that you always think you had or is it something you're learning to do better?

DAVID DUVAL:   I think it's something I probably learned my first few years on Tour as much as anything.  I've had several chances to win golf tournaments, not the Majors, but several chances to win other events, and it didn't work out, and some of them I walked away thinking I really blew it and some of them I walked away feeling I got robbed.  And so I think as an individual you just learn that, you learn that it's part of the game and sometimes you're going to play very, very well and you're going to get beat and sometimes you're not going to play all that great and you can win golf tournaments.  I think I've just kind of come to grips with that, you do the best you can.


Q.  Having had more time to reflect on Augusta, what category did that fall into, getting beat?

DAVID DUVAL:   I think I clearly got beat.  There's certainly a couple of -- you know, there's not even so much things that I'd like to do over.  I mean I didn't miss-hit a shot that day.  I knew that I felt like I needed to play a perfect round of golf on Sunday, and the only thing I didn't do perfectly was pull out the right club every time, I guess, or a couple times maybe I hit it too solid on a couple shots.  Sounds kind of stupid, but you know, it happens.  Certainly you can reflect back and say, oh, you should have made those putts on 18 and 16, but you know, you don't talk about all the other eight birdie putts I made and bogey putts made on four, and I made a lot of putts that day, so I can't really gripe about missing a couple.


Q.  You had said a lot early last year that simply the putts weren't going in and some of the cases this year early on.  Did that put any pressure on your iron game to try and stick it closer?

DAVID DUVAL:   I think it does, whether you are conscious of it or not.  You start trying to force the ball in closer to the hole, and maybe I would hit at flags I wouldn't normally hit at, I might play a little right of or left of.  I think that's just a thing that happens because you have to shoot low scores and good scores.


Q.  As much as you've been hovering since this is coming back, do you find yourself at all ancy or anxious to break through on one of these?

DAVID DUVAL:   Not really.  I certainly want to start winning golf tournaments again, and I feel like I'm back in that position where I can.  And so I'm not worried about trying to force it, if that makes any sense.  I feel like I'm at the point where I can just go play again and start winning golf tournaments again.


Q.  The 65 today, do you look back on it and see a lot of areas where you can lower that score even more for the final two days?

DAVID DUVAL:   Well, sure.  I mean there's rarely been a day I've walked off a golf course feeling like I didn't leave some shots out there, and today I certainly feel like I left a couple out there, but who knows.  I might not need to shoot two low scores this weekend.  I might need to shoot par this weekend.  It's depending on the wind and other factors.  You just go play and do the best you can on the conditions.


Q.  Talk about the 18th, what kind of shot did you have?

DAVID DUVAL:   Second.  It wasn't that hard.  It was over on the right it was matted down a little bit in the grass and just had to kind of get a low cut and hit a pretty good shot, after the people let me. 


Q.  What were they doing?

DAVID DUVAL:   I had a couple of girls who were up there, you know how they line up, all the people, and they just kind of started backing and cowering and I was just like, you know, asked them if they were scared.  They thought I was going to rattle it off the tree right in front of them.  And then I had a guy start taking my picture as I was standing over it about to hit, just making jokes, I guess.  And it just had to hit low cut and hit a pretty good shot.  It just didn't quite cut, and I think, man, if it did, it had gone right up there next to the hole and I made a nice putt.


Q.  David, in baseball when a pitcher has a no-hitter going, normally guys that have done that don't say anything.  Was there anything said regarding Fred's pursuit of 59 on 17 when he had a chance to go birdie, birdie?

DAVID DUVAL:   Well, not -- no, not really.  I was talking to Joe while he was about to putt.  I said, man, I hope he makes it.  But I wasn't talking with Fred.  I hadn't really paid attention to it, that much thing.  I know he was doing well.  He had missed a putt or two he probably could have made, but he'd made eight or nine birdies already. 


Q.  Did the gallery pick up on it at all?  Did you hear any talk from them?

DAVID DUVAL:   I didn't.  I didn't hear anything.  I don't know if people were aware or not. 


Q.  David, golfers use a lot of different things for motivation.  Is there any motivation to the fact that last year when you played here with Tiger and it didn't go the way you wanted to, now you're on top and playing well, is that any motivation for you to come back and try to play well this year?

DAVID DUVAL:   No.  It's a separate beast.  That's done and over with, man.  That's a year, two years ago.  I don't know.  When did we play?  Did we play together last year? 


Q.  Yeah. 

DAVID DUVAL:   You make it sound like I played really bad that day.  I think I shot 70. 


Q.  Even better now than you were at Augusta because that Sunday round was so hot.  I mean you seem to be talking like you're hitting better now.

DAVID DUVAL:   I feel like -- I mean Sunday and Friday at Augusta I hit the ball really, really good and the other two days I hit it pretty good.  For four days last week was kind of what I meant.  I hit it better for four days last week than I did at Augusta.  And you know, I've kind of got it to where I think I'm -- I'm kind of hitting it -- I'm striking the ball a lot like I was those two days at Augusta every day now.  I feel like I'm starting to swing real well consistently.


Q.  How did the driver treat you today and the swings on the front nine?  Did the wind get you on those or what happened, three and  --?

DAVID DUVAL:   You know, I don't know.  Those were -- I missed a couple of those like that today, just pulled out of it a little quick probably.  Sort of what I did on 18.  18 a lot worse than I did on three actually.  You know, I just -- that's one club I didn't hit great.  I didn't today.  I hit it pretty good, though. 


Q.  Did you hit a stretch at any point this year where you came to the course not knowing exactly how you were going to hit the ball and are you at a stage now where you're a little more excited trying to get here?

DAVID DUVAL:   I've had times when I didn't know where I was going to go.  I don't know if it was so much this year.  I remember standing on the range at Bay Hill back in '96 or something not knowing where I was going to hit with a 9-iron, but you know, I don't know if that's the case this year, and yeah, I'm more excited about the way I am playing now than I have been for quite some time, and I'm not like in a hurry to go play, if that's what you -- I don't know.  I mean sure I look forward to it.


Q.  Not that you need to go play now, but your enthusiasm any greater than the last New Orleans and now because of here?

DAVID DUVAL:   Yeah, probably.  Probably a little bit, but I'm trying to kind of temper it a little bit and just kind of take it easy because I was playing last week, I'm playing this week and I'm playing next week.  I don't want to get too much, don't want to go hit balls all afternoon and get going too much. 


Q.  How did you plot your schedule from the Masters to the Open and why did you want to play at the places you're going to play and where are you playing?

DAVID DUVAL:   Why didn't I what? 


Q.  Why did you want to play where you're playing and where are you going to play between now and the Open also?

DAVID DUVAL:   Well, I like the folks in Houston and I've played there in the past, and I've won that golf tournament in the past.  New Orleans, you know, Rick George and Jay Little and those guys just do such a tremendous job, you know, I think they probably do as good a job as anybody all year at a tournament.  You know, this week's a great week and next week's a lot of fun, too, and I normally play up in Ohio, but I'm not going to be able to this year because of a friend's wedding, so that's kind of how I got to my schedule. 


Q.  How long was your shot from 18 up toward the green?

DAVID DUVAL:   I had 156 to the front and I think the pin's on 28, so...


Q.  What did you hit out of the trees?

DAVID DUVAL:   Four.


Q.  4-iron?

DAVID DUVAL:   Out of the trees?


Q.  Yeah. 

DAVID DUVAL:   Four. 


Q.  How close were you to the girls?

DAVID DUVAL:   No.  They were about -- you know, it was like -- it was a lot of people lined up and they were about 15 steps up, and  --.


Q.  You didn't buzz 'em, did you?

DAVID DUVAL:   No, it was not even close.  I'm going left or well left.  I have to shank it to have hit it where they were.  I've shanked it before, but I felt pretty good I wasn't going to in that instance.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT