MERCEDES CHAMPIONSHIPS
January 10, 2001
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL:  Had good success here.  Wasn't quite sure I'd be back this year after the way the year had started last year, then getting hurt, really only having a couple of tries at it.  I'm ready to get going.  I feel like my game is good.


Q.  Tiger took his hat off and about thousand cameras clicked.  You didn't get that. 

DAVID DUVAL:  No cameras.  They left.  Went to write the story (laughter). 


Q.  How are you physically here?  Is it back behind you?  Can we not ask that question again?

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, sure, it would be great if you don't.  But, no, it's not a hundred percent still.  It's a lot better.  It's just, you know, going to take a little bit longer is all.


Q.  I can sympathize completely and understand, why would you want to move?

DAVID DUVAL:  I really can't talk about it right now. 


Q.  Is Sun Valley a two-piece  --?

DAVID DUVAL:  Sun Valley is coming out with a new one-piece ball (laughter).  It's called ice. 


Q.  You said in the past the West Coast swing where you've played well has kind of set the tone for you.  Are you taking that approach this year, "I feel like if I get off to a good start ..."? 

DAVID DUVAL:  I think so.  I always do.  I'm going to play  -- end up playing one less event because I didn't play matchplay.  You know, I like playing out here.  I always have, ever since I started on TOUR.  I started so well my first year, I don't know.  I think the weather tends to be good, with the exception of a few spots, somewhere in Northern California hasn't been so great.  Other than that, you know, the courses are in good shape.  It's just exciting to get started again. 


Q.  When you start out a year with what happened last year, the kind of year you had, you start out now fresh, what do you look at?  Will you look at the whole year?  Do you take dead aim at Tiger?

DAVID DUVAL:  For this year? 


Q.  Yes. 

DAVID DUVAL:  Same as I have in the past.  Just trying to improve, try to give yourself as many opportunities to win golf tournaments as I can, to continue to do the little things that I feel like I need to do to play well and to win.  Just typical things like that.  I don't think that me, as an individual, I'm not setting out to hunt Tiger down.  Good golf takes care of itself, you know, takes care of all the other stuff.  I'm not concerned about trying to beat Tiger. 


Q.  Are there one or two specific areas of your game you're focusing on, trying to fine-tune?  At one point last year you were saying maybe your short game wasn't quite as sharp as it was in the past.  Are you focusing on anything in particular?

DAVID DUVAL:  No, no.  I wish there was something.  I think typical things, to try to putt well and to chip well, bunkers, all that stuff.  We talk about it every week.  You just can't stress it enough. 


Q.  Why do you think the putts didn't go in last year?

DAVID DUVAL:  Because I missed them.  


Q.  Was that about the biggest difference last year between early '99?  Was it simply putting?  Did you ever ask yourself why did they go in in '99 and not in 2000?

DAVID DUVAL:  Not really.  I feel like I putted well.  They just weren't going in.  I can't control that ball after I hit it.  Once it's on the greens rolling, there's not anything else can you do.


Q.  There was nothing back related early on that may have affected your posture with putts?

DAVID DUVAL:  I don't know.  Possible, but I don't really know.  I feel like I  --.


Q.  If you did, you'd be rich.  You are rich, wait a minute. 

DAVID DUVAL:  Trying to make up (laughter). 


Q.  Phil Mickelson said he expects a bunch of tournament record scores to fall because of the advancement in equipment, attitude of the top players.  Do you agree with that? 

DAVID DUVAL:  No. 


Q.  Why is that?

DAVID DUVAL:  Hasn't happened last year.  Hasn't happened the year before.  I think certainly you'll have some spectacular play on any given day, any given week.  I don't think that everything's going to fall every week.  I just disagree with that. 


Q.  His point was that the ball and the equipment are making a much bigger difference for the year coming up than they have. 

DAVID DUVAL:  The balls were out last year and so was the equipment.  Only person that broke a few records was Tiger.  You know, I don't think that shows a pattern that every record is going to fall. 


Q.  Are you a better player than you were two years ago?

DAVID DUVAL:  You know, I'd like to think so.  I could probably give you a more definitive answer if I felt like I was a hundred percent healthy, and had been last year.  I think that I probably went backwards a little bit through last year because I was playing hurt.  You know, it's funny, in my heart I feel like I am.  I feel like I've improved and I'm getting better. 


Q.  You say you were not setting out to necessarily beat Tiger this year.  Ultimately, though, don't you sort of bump into him along the way if you get to where you want to go?

DAVID DUVAL:  If he plays well, he'll bump into me (smiling). 


Q.  Would it be a chest bump or...

DAVID DUVAL:  Knock heads, right (laughter)?  I mean, certainly we all think Tiger will play, there's no reason to think anything differently, that he won't continue to play great.  My plans are to play well also.


Q.  But you don't react to anything he does specifically?

DAVID DUVAL:  I don't think so.  I don't.  You know, you start a golf tournament and you shoot 20 under par.  Whether Tiger's playing or not, you have a good chance of winning. 


Q.  You guys went to Vegas together before you came here, is that right?

DAVID DUVAL:  Yes.


Q.  Did you beat him in blackjack?  How did that go?

DAVID DUVAL:  We didn't play head-to-head in that.  We had our common opponent in the dealer.


Q.  Was your stack higher at the end than his?

DAVID DUVAL:  You know, my stack was smaller.  It was also a different color (laughter). 


Q.  Are you going to play next week at the Sony?

DAVID DUVAL:  No.


Q.  Skiing, as usual?

DAVID DUVAL:  Maybe.  I'll be there.  I'm not sure I'll do it every day. 


Q.  Have you been snowboarding since?

DAVID DUVAL:  Oh, yeah, sure.  I went before Christmas.


Q.  Your posture is good?  Didn't affect your posture?

DAVID DUVAL:  It felt all right.  I was a little timid, but I felt okay.


Q.  You guys have become buddies, you and Tiger.  How did that come about?

DAVID DUVAL:  He started paying me monthly (smiling). 


Q.  At The Ryder Cup, you played together, Brookline, you weren't that close then, were you?  Is this kind of a friendship that's gotten a lot closer?

DAVID DUVAL:  I think so.  It just evolves, like anything will or anything could.  I don't really know what to say other than that.  Over the course of time, as anybody in this room has people they were closer with, become better friends.  It's just no different.


Q.  Was there any particular moment that drew you guys closer?

DAVID DUVAL:  Boy, I don't think there's one instance, no.  It's just being in each other's company on a more regular basis.


Q.  You played with Tiger for a week in Argentina; in fact, played better than Tiger.  Did you come away from that experience with a little more confidence in your own game?

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, no, I wouldn't say that.  I wouldn't put it that way.  I was very excited about the fact that I went down there.  Yeah, I believe I played better than Tiger, but I think also I was not coming  -- it wasn't my eighth event in a row around the world.  You know, I expected Tiger to be tired and stuff.  I felt good about the fact that I felt like I stepped up and played very well.  You know, that was an exciting week for me to go abroad, play so well.  I played well at Lancome a few years ago, I played well at the British Open a couple times.  To put it all together, that was a great week for me.


Q.  How much more are you looking forward to The Ryder Cup this year as opposed to '99? 

DAVID DUVAL:  A lot.  A lot more.  You know, I think just from the first experience of playing, I'm now looking forward to all the questions and all the dredging up of last Ryder Cup (laughter).  I think it's just going to be great.  I do.  I'm looking forward to the whole week.  I think it's going to be fun.


Q.  What changed your opinion?  What did the experience do for your opinion?

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, I mean, without rehashing the whole story, you know, I believe  -- I guess I am going to rehash some of it, if you want me to answer that question.  Like I said before, I don't believe that what I said was portrayed accurately in every instance.  Some things were taken and run.  They took them and ran with it.  What changed was I think, as much as anything, just being a part of such a big comeback that day, a week where we were all but dead starting Sunday, and to then put it all together was an amazing experience. 


Q.  Do you think the psychological aspect of that comeback could carry over this far when you go there?

DAVID DUVAL:  I think it could carry over further.  You know, as excited as it was to be on the good side of it, it had to have been probably that defeating to be on the opposite side, I would think.  I think it's certainly something that will help this year. 


Q.  You say it could carry over further?

DAVID DUVAL:  I think it could.  I think by -- I think by saying that, what I mean, you know, because it could carry into this time, it could really just kind of go into the next one because of that. 

DAVID DUVAL:  All right. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT