WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 9, 2000
David Duval
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIGER WOODS:   Well, I think today was a pretty good day.  We hit the ball well, and I made a couple putts.  David made a lot of putts.  I think more than anything, we really hubby-and-wife'd it pretty good today.  Got it around when one person was in trouble, and bailed the other person out, and we did that all day long.  

Q.  Tiger, did the wind have any kind of influence on the recovery of your game, compared to the first two days? 

TIGER WOODS:   The wind definitely blew pretty hard today, and you had to concentrate pretty hard on what you are doing.  You had to stay committed to the shots that you were going to play.  With the wind blowing as hard as it was today, you really had to hit the ball solid; and I felt like I was able to make some good, solid shots today. 

Q.  Tiger, I realize a lot has already been said about the format, but you especially really seemed to open up your game today in comparison, especially to yesterday.  Can you talk a little bit about any changes that you might have made in your style of play between today and yesterday? 

TIGER WOODS:   Well, today I just went out there and just really tried to hit the ball as solid as possible.  With the wind blowing as hard as it was, it was really, really important to hit the ball crisp and solid and at the right trajectory; and that's what I focused on.  And for the most part, I was able to do that.  I hit a couple of bad shots today, but my partner over here bailed me out. 

Q.  Tiger, do you feel restless about the fact that tomorrow, when you have to make a definition of this tournament, you have to play in foursomes, which is not the format that most golfers feel comfortable with? 

TIGER WOODS:   Well, I kind of enjoy that, because tomorrow you don't have to go out there and shoot 15-under par.  (Laughs.) 

You just need to go out there and play solid.  Right now David and I are both playing well, we are enjoying each other's company, and it makes things a lot easier out there.

Q.  Tiger, not as a golfer, but as a man, did you enjoy your childhood?  And what can you say about your stay here in Argentina?  Have you enjoyed it? 

TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, I did enjoy my childhood.  It was a lot of fun.  Just like any kid, I had a lot of great times.  Have I enjoyed my stay here?  Yeah, I've enjoyed my stay.  Unfortunately, I haven't seen that much of the country or that much of Buenos Aires.  I've just seen the hotel and the golf course.  That's usually how it goes at tournament sites. 

Q.  Once again, did you like Argentina, and do you think that you will come back here in the near future? 

DAVID DUVAL:  You're on a roll.  (Laughs.) I've had a good time.  As far as coming back in the future, certainly, if it presents itself, I will.  When that would be, I don't know.

Q.  Tiger, you had a ball in the water, and David, you had two.  Is this the result of a different strategy? 

TIGER WOODS:   That's a great question.  (Laughter.) I guess the best way to describe it is we didn't hit the shot where we wanted to.  A lot of times, David was already in position.  I had unfortunately made a bad swing at the wrong time, but David was already in position.  And the other way, too.  So we kind of bailed each other out, as I said.  And that's what you need to do in this type of format. 

Q.  David, an extraordinary putting week.  Have you changed anything, or is it just the greens, or is it just a good feeling for distance? 

DAVID DUVAL:  No changes.  Just simply comfortable on the greens, and I believe in the fact that I'm a good putter. 

Q.  Is it tougher to pull a long iron or a short iron in the wind?  Is it tougher to make up your mind on a long iron or a short iron when the wind is really blowing? 

DAVID DUVAL:  I don't think there's much of a difference, because the importance of the controlling the trajectory, regardless of what club you are hitting. 

Q.  Tiger, was Steve drawing your attention to the fact that it was New Zealand at the top of the leaderboard for so long, and does he have any divided loyalties? 

TIGER WOODS:   To be honest with you, I never saw the leaderboards, because they keep flashing up, you know, for one brief second; and the next thing you know, it's 10 minutes later you get to see it again.  So usually by the time you get to see it, you're on to the next hole and it's advertising for up-and-coming World Golf Championships, all the Tours.  It's just really hard to see what's going on out there. 

Q.  Is that a bad thing?  Do you actually want to know a bit more about what is going on? 

TIGER WOODS:   Yeah, we would love to know, but leaderboards are not very good here.  They are just not flashing up our scores  -- the guys who are playing, more often.  They are doing more advertising than they are flashing the scores. 

Q.  David, you are playing with the No. 1 player, but you're playing better than the No. 1 player.  Does it make you feel more comfortable playing with him? 

DAVID DUVAL:  I think that the format lends itself to really feeling like you can make up for errors on the other half of the team.  I think that  -- I don't think there's really been a drastic difference in the way we've played so far. 

TIGER WOODS:   I just hit a driver, 8-iron to 12 feet and made it.  (Laughter.)


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT