THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY SOUTHERN COMPANY
November 2, 2000
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL:  I played real nice.  I played real well, and just didn't make many mistakes and a couple of times I hit it in the rough; was fortunate enough to at least be able to move the ball forward and not pitch out.  That is about it, really hit a couple of nice shots coming home; made a few easy birdies, and that was it.
 

Q.  David, was 12 about as hard a scramble as you had all day?

DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, probably.  I made bogey on the 5th hole, actually only had about that far of a putt, just missed it (indicating five feet) But I played that -- after my tee shot played it how much I wanted to.  I didn't figure I could hit it on the green and if I did try to, I figured I might hit it way over.  If I could hit it up in that left side of the bunker, at least I thought I could hit it up on  the green, out of the bunker, and have a putt at it.
 

Q.  Back felt great?

DAVID DUVAL:  Oh, yeah, it is fine.
 

Q.  As little as you played because of the back injury that you seem to be playing well, kind of anxious for -- I mean, the season is winding down. Are you anxious for it to pick up again because you hadn't played much?

DAVID DUVAL:  No.  I am ready for it to wind down and just get really ready for next year as much as anything.  I don't want to -- you know, as I said, I feel great, but I don't want to go too much and then just be really focused for 01.
 

Q.  What happened on 18?  What was -- needed one more club?

DAVID DUVAL:  No.  Not really.  If anything, I only needed to today put the ball on the ground instead of hit off the team.  Just a little bit in between yardage, but actually I thought I could hit it up there to the front of green without much problem. Hit 4-iron and because the 3-iron I -- I probably would have hit it into the -- maybe through the green if not on the back shelf and that is no easy 2-putt from there.  I didn't really expect that ball to roll down  the hill like it did, but I think if I just put it on the ground, it would have been fine; wouldn't have gone quite as high.
 

Q.  So many times after you started winning in 1997, 1998, you kept saying that was all confidence. What did that mean to you on the course?  Did you play differently?  Look at shots differently?

DAVID DUVAL:  Not so much.  I guess it does mean playing differently in that you just are so comfortable with what is going on; not trying to force anything.  I think that is kind of where I am getting to again, that is exactly how I played at the Southern Open down there at Callaway and, you know, that is the first time I played a tournament like that in probably at least to come out on top, you know, a year and a half at least.  My game is such that when I am playing well, I control distances very well and I am an excellent putter, so I just -- the way I look at it, if I can hit it 15 to 20 feet, 72 times, I am probably going to win the golf tournament.  So that is kind of how I approach it and I am getting better at getting back to that.  I guess that means you are confident in all aspects of what you are doing; you don't have to feel like you have to hit the it up next to the hole. 
 

Q.  What it is going take to contain this course?  5-under is a great score, are you be able to go lower with the drying out conditions?

DAVID DUVAL:  How would I know?  Find out tomorrow and the next day.  It is just -- it depends on where the pins get set and how hard the greens get.  I don't recall too many many scores like that from two years ago, but we also played with a little bit higher rough and such.  But you never know, it changes day-to-day and I assume they are going to try to get them harder and faster.
 

Q.  You say that you are playing really well around here, places like Jacksonville - is there sort of a comfort zone playing in a place that you are familiar with?

DAVID DUVAL:  Yeah, there might be a little bit to that, but at the same time, I think as much as anything, I come into these parts -- I think I played real well on the West Coast too, but I usually head in there well rested and I come through that Florida swing well rested.  Tend to only play down at Doral if I play in Florida other than, you know, THE PLAYERS Championship so play that stretch through Augusta and really get fired up.  Now I am coming off of very little golf since the British Open really.  It is just  that patience that you get.  I think when I am well rested I think a lot more clearly, and I can then go out and play like I did today and play like I did down at Callaway where I just really don't hit at a whole lot of pins, I just -- I just take it as it comes to me there.
 

Q.  With only 29 guys here, is this a fun or relaxing event or do you treat it just like a full field event?  What is your attitude on that?

DAVID DUVAL:  Well, it is a fun event because it is a smaller field, but I got every intention of winning the golf tournament.  I am not here to just enjoy the last event.  So it's an important week and I won back in 1997 and, man, it is a pretty neat piece of crystal to have in your possession.  I think another one would look real good at my house.
 

Q.  When you look back on the first half of the year, since putting was probably holding you back, how much did your confidence take a beating?

DAVID DUVAL:  Probably a lot and I think that -- I think what happens when -- I view myself as a great putter and so like said, I don't feel like I have to force iron shots and when you do that you get a lot more control of your game and then you start missing putts and instead of being 15, you are aiming  at 10 foot away from the hole.  You start forcing it a little bit; then you start hitting bad shots and it just feeds on itself.  And I think as much as anything, took me a little while to get comfortable with the putter.  I was struggling finding one that I could get set on the ground, just as I wanted and then now that I do, I feel great about it.  It kind of turned around at the British Open as much as anything, I really putted well there.
 

Q.  How long does it take to get it back?

DAVID DUVAL:  It really doesn't take long. It is amazing, just kind of clicks again.
 

Q.  Steve Flesch was in here earlier.  He also talked about not shooting at pins, at playing centers of greens too.  Do you think touring pros play more conservatively than maybe the general public thinks or and do you think maybe -- you have played Pro-Ams, do you guys actually in course management play more conservatively than amateurs who might try to shoot at pins?

DAVID DUVAL:  I think -- yeah, you know, at least I can say I play a lot more conservatively than you think.  I think all the players do.  You have to  -- I was talking with Bryce Molder over the weekend. I played golf with the team, and we were talking about  how you have success out here and there is no two ways around it.  You have to be a great putter.  And I think when you accomplish that and you have confidence in that, it makes everything else a little bit easier.  There is just -- the greens we play and the conditions we play, the rough around the greens and stuff, you really can't short-side yourself out here. If you do, you are going to make a lot of bogeys.  So I think that is why you see a lot of players hitting away from flags.  If you could manage to hit a 6-iron, you know, 15 or 18 feet every time you hit it, you'd be really happy.  So I think you just play the strengths and that is the big part of managing your golf game.
 

Q.  Speaking of Bryce Molder, what is going to happen when he gets out here?

DAVID DUVAL:  I think he has a great chance of being a great player.  I don't think as a college player you realize even if you get to play some, I don't think you really realize it until you are out here playing on Nike Tours or the BUY.COM Tours or the PGA TOUR, whatever, I don't really think you realize how great people -- great people are with wedges and putters.  That is something that you have to master. His game is good, though, I really liked it actually.  It really looked kind of -- there wasn't any flash to it.  It just was got done, all of a sudden he shot 5-under.  I was like man, I think that is the great thing about -- I think that is why he has a good chance of being a great player out here because of that, because exactly that reason, don't think you are doing spectacular things; all of a sudden, you shot 4-, 5-under and that is what it takes out here.

DAVID DUVAL:  4 hit pitching wedge to about four feet on 4.  No. 5 I missed an about 4-foot putt for par.  No. 7, I hit a 9-iron to about 15 feet.  No. 9 I hit 4-wood just in front of the green and chipped up to two and a half feet maybe.  14, sand wedge to six feet.  15 par 5, iron on the green to about 20 feet.  And 16 I hit 8-iron to about two feet.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT