MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 6, 2000
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, it is exciting obviously to play like that. Although I don't feel
like I played my best today, I did a very, very good job of capitalizing when I did hit
some good shots, so all and all very successful. 
 
Q. Can you give just your appraisal of how the course is playing compared to what, you
know, is it the same as --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: It is a little bit slower, I think. I guess seems like it is mushier on
the ground. Other than that, it is very -- the greens seem to be about the same. Might be
a touch slower. But they are starting to get the firmest that they tend to have.
Everything is pretty close. Seems like there has been some moisture on the ground. 
 
Q. Are you surprised to come back playing so well, right off the bat? 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I was not surprised to come back or be thinking so well to kind of
handle myself well out there. I wasn't so sure that I expected to be as sharp with the
golf success as last week. I thought that certainly this week I could come in off of a
week and be pretty good. But I didn't expect to be quite that sharp, but I think that just
goes to show how being really fresh upstairs can really lead to good things. 
 
Q. When you were coming back I mean, did you kind of look at last week almost as kind
of a warm-up and this was the place where you could maybe get back on the board?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I can't answer yes, I can't answer no to that really. Certainly I
expected probably to play better the second week than the first week. But I really try to
make a point of not going to any golf tournament as a warm-up. I don't think it does -- I
think it does a disservice to the people that put on a tournament and the people who come
out to watch. If you are not all there into it, I really don't think you should be there.
So I really feel like I was ready to play physically last week but I can't say that I
expected to be so sharp. 
 
Q. Did you play that much better today as opposed to yesterday? Did you cash in better?
Kind of contrast the two rounds.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I think I played noticeably better today. Yesterday I think what happened
yesterday I was started on the 10th hole, hit a real nice drive and I got in between
clubs, tried to hit less club and swing hard. Hit a bad shot next hole, same thing, in
between, hit it hard, hit a bad shot. I think it just wrecked my rhythm for most of the
day, those first couple of holes. Today my rhythm was a lot better. You can see I got the
ball a lot closer. As much as I tried yesterday I couldn't quite get it back really just
hit it 20, 30 feet all day so didn't have a whole lot of chances. 
 
Q. What is the toughest thing about coming back? What is the one thing that you see
lacking or I mean, you weren't lacking anything last week but what is the one thing that
--
 
 DAVID DUVAL: The thing that has been the hardest for me last week and this week is just
getting comfortable and back into my routines as I play - you pre shot, and being really,
really focused on those things. I have backed off a lot of golf shots in the six rounds
that I have played competitively since I came back. I think that is just not from being as
sharp and not having that -- not having that rhythm as well as I would normally. 
 
Q. Since you have come back have you changed your workout routine at all?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, everything last week and this week is certainly different. I don't
believe right now I have quite the golf endurance, if you will, that I would have normally
have and so I have had to scale back on everything. Like when I am done, I am really not
hitting balls; I am not really working out the days I play. I just don't quite have all
that energy back yet. Also, some of it is just not wanting to overtax myself and be a
little cautious. 
 
Q. A couple of bogeys yesterday and today. Are is that just rust maybe still?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, no, I don't think so. I think yesterday it was -- I bogeyed the
first two holes and like I said, they were just bad shots just trying to hit it hard. Then
I 3-putted from the fringe from about 50 feet on 13. I didn't make a bogey after that.
Then the one bogey I made on the back nine today was not so much -- it wasn't a misread of
the line but it was a misread of the speed. I expected the putt to be substantially faster
than it was. I left it six feet short. Then I made a bogey over on 6. I think that was the
only two bogeys I made. That was really just a product of kind of a bit of a bad kick. I
hit a shot that was a little left off the tee, slightly left to where I wanted, if -- it
kind of caught this one branch on this pine tree, dropped underneath it, so I was
restricted, had to be cautious there. If it missed that, it might still have stayed in the
rough but I would have had a clear swing at least. Had to kind of manufacture a bit of a
shot. 
 
Q. Was your dad here today?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yes. 
 
Q. Did he say anything to you after the round? He doesn't get to see you very often
live. What was that like?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, it is great. I mean, he is recuperating and trying to get ready for
next year and I am glad he made the trip. 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: First hole, I hit a sand wedge to about a foot. 3rd hole hit 7-iron on the
green in two. 2-putted. No. 4 I hit 7-iron to about 15 feet. No. 5 I hit 6-iron about six
feet. 6, bogey we kind of covered. The 10th hole I hit pitching wedge to about 20 feet.
The 13 I 3-putted. 14 I hit just hit it off the fringe and chipped in with a 9-iron just
-- I was only about 15 feet from the hole. And then 15 I hit it just over the green within
two and chipped down to four feet. The last hole I hit a sand wedge to about ten feet, No.
18. 
 
Q. When you were out, what did you miss more, playing golf or fishing or some other
activity? What was the hardest thing to give up there for a while?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, the golf obviously was difficult not to play, especially you know,
watching the PGA and watching the World Series. I planned on taking off a substantial
chunk of time anyways after that, so after those two weeks passed, it was tough to -- it
was still tough not to -- to know that I couldn't even hit balls but at the same time I
couldn't do anything else outside. I was flat on my back, basically. I was working hard
with rehab and such, so after those two weeks passed it was probably more difficult
knowing I couldn't go fishing or running or anything like that. 
 
Q. Are you back running?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: A little bit. Couple of days a week. 
 
Q. (inaudible) Any truth to this that the Titleist people have been building a special
shoe for you or something like that?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I really don't think that is important, so... 
 
Q. I think that our viewers, listeners, and readers would like to hear a little bit
about your philosophy of lifting weights and the golf swing.
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Well, I guess my philosophy on that is that the more fit and stronger you
can become and the more better an athlete you can become, I think it translates into being
a better player and I think certainly beneficial for longevity and even though I just came
off an injury, surprising for prevention of injury. 
 
Q. Does it ever become a flexibility issue?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I don't think so. As long as you are dilligent with the stretching and
really paying attention to that -- we hit golf balls so often; we are playing so much that
it -- you tend to swing it out anyways that day or the next day. 
 
Q. This is your second week back with Mitch. What difference does that make -- does
that kind of bring back some old feelings or --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, you know, we felt like we should -- well, I shouldn't say we. I felt
like we should part ways for a while at the beginning of this year. We just weren't
communicating particularly well, and so you know, then after I decided to make a change, I
thought that he was, you know, I believe he is very, very excellent at what he does and he
is probably the most well prepared caddie out here in my opinion. So I just thought it was
the right thing to do, I was looking forward to kind of getting back. 
 
Q. Did you leave on bad terms?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No. 
 
Q. Did it just take a phone call?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, basically. 
 
Q. Wasn't hard to persuade him to come back?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: No. 
 
Q. When you have a crowd like yesterday so many people bunched --
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Like the leaderboard or something? 
 
Q. Yes, on the leaderboard, and so many people so close and Bradley comes out and
shoots a 63, does it change the focus now? Do you feel like you have to go chase or can
you go and continue to play knowing that things can still bunch up a little bit?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: For me it doesn't change anything. I will just continue to go play.
Because I have had success on this golf course and I feel like if I am playing well I know
how to play the golf course the best way for me to score. And you know, I just need to do
those things regardless of who is ahead of me or how far they are ahead of me. Certain
places you can't get aggressive and certain places you need to out here for me, so doesn't
alter my approach. 
 
Q. When you say you stopped communicating with Mitch did you basically get tired of
looking at him a little bit too and wanted a change?
 
 DAVID DUVAL: I mean, yeah, I don't really want to -- that occurred eight months ago,
nine months ago, and you know, I felt like it was time to make a change for a while as
much as anything. I didn't hire Greg under the pretense that it was a part-time deal and
that there wasn't -- that I was going to going to move on at some point, but that is just
how it worked out, so..... 
 
 DAVID DUVAL: Thank you. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT