U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2000
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL: I sure hope so. And this is the week to do it. I had a chance last week,
but I'm excited everything about everything that's going on, and I'm glad to be here.

DAVID DUVAL: I think after last week, it speaks for itself. I'm obviously playing well.
I had a chance to win. I'm excited and looking for some good things this week.

Q. I don't know where to start, David. You've been so close to winning, you did win a
while, you won a lot of tournaments, now you're trying to win again. What's it going to
take for you to win, not just this tournament, but get back to winning again?

DAVID DUVAL: Having the lowest score when we're done. I've played well the past few
weeks. I played well on several other occasions this year. I'm not the only one who
controls it, me winning a golf tournament. There are other factors involved, and we all
know that. There's a lot involved, depending on how some other people play. It seems that
everybody is worried about it more than I am. I feel like my game is getting very good
again, and it's where it should be. I'm looking forward to this week. I had a chance to
win last week, and that's exciting stuff to me.

Q. David, are you in the same frame of mind now maybe before you won your first couple
of years on Tour, where you know you're doing the things you feel like you need to do to
win, and it's going to be a matter of time? Is your mind set any different than when you
were trying to win your first?

DAVID DUVAL: Not at all. It's no different now than where it was a year ago or three
years ago. I work hard and I look for some good things to happen. And they're there.
They're going to happen for me. It might not have been last week, and it might not be this
week, but I expect some great things are right there for me.

Q. David, your putting statistics are down somewhat from last year. I think in putts
per round, you're down around 140 on Tour. Is there anything that you've identified
mechanically in your stroke and that you've worked on that will get you back to where you
will need to be with your putting?

DAVID DUVAL: No. I simply haven't holed the putts I did last year. I believe if there
was one thing that I wasn't doing as well as I have in the past, that was paying attention
to the pace, the pace of my putts. And I was very conscious of it last week and worked on
it. And having done that well last week, I realized that I really wasn't paying as much
attention to what I needed to be, but everything else is the same.

Q. David, what are your memories of Payne Stewart? Do you have any anecdotes that you
can share with us?

DAVID DUVAL: I have wonderful memories. He was a veteran player, who was 15 years older
than myself, and who had always treated me well. And then to get to experience such a
tremendous Ryder Cup with him in September, I have only great things to think about. And
to think about the fact that at last year's U.S. Open, we were paired together on the
final group on Saturday, that was an exciting day. So, just some great things.

Q. I'm assuming the '92 Open was your first visit to Pebble?

DAVID DUVAL: Right. 

Q. Could you talk about your first impressions of the course then and how or why you've
come to like it so much? What is it about the course that you like so much?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I think the first thing you think about is the setting, the scenery
involved. The next thing that I like so much is that, regardless of the club you have to
play off of the tee, and the same can be said for any green, whether it's a sand wedge or
a long iron, you really need to pay attention to where you're aiming at and what's going
on. And I guess even though you might only hit a 2- or 3-iron off the 4th tee, it demands
that you really be very precise and be very careful about what you're doing with those
shots. And then into the greens, it's the same kind of thing, where you've got to be very
conscious of where you're trying to play and why, and try to keep the ball near the hole
and all those things. And then I guess it would be the setting again, the scenery. 

Q. How would you define or describe the 18th as a closing hole? How does it stack up in
terms of a hard hole, compared with other closing holes you've played in championship
golf?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I guess the answer to that depends on whether you're talking about
playing the hole with no wind, downwind, cross-breeze, into the breeze. On a day when
there's no wind, it's not a terribly difficult hole. You can hit a 3-wood and layup with a
middle iron and pitch in with a wedge and 9-iron. But that hole is very dependent upon the
wind. When it comes from virtually any direction, it becomes a very, very difficult golf
hole. And it looks to me like they've expanded the green a bit, to the left, especially,
and that fairway bunker on the layup area is out a bit more. So, you're going to have a
bit more narrow area to hit. Maybe they haven't, but it sure looks that way. You have to
be very conscious where to hit it. And in the setting of a U.S. Open, you can't just hit
it -- you have to hit it into the fairway off the tee. Certainly, you can aim way right
and take an iron, but at some point you're going to have to hit a couple of great shots,
because if you do that, you have to hit it that much longer to layup. There's so many ways
to play it. It's a great hole. 

Q. When talking about winning out here, they say it would be the driving. And how are
you driving?

DAVID DUVAL: Do they mean driving the ball off the tee or hitting the club, the driver?

Q. The tee shot will be key to how they can play the hole with the wind and everything
else.

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I think that's a pretty fair statement. But then again, I haven't
played a lot of those holes. I've played maybe eight of them. I've yet to be in one where
you can hit it in the rough and still be in the tournament. You need to keep it in play.
And that's every U.S. Open I've encountered; it sets up the rest of the golf course.

Q. (Inaudible.)

DAVID DUVAL: I think I'm driving the golf ball very well. I think it's pretty good
right now. 

Q. What is the rough like out there? We've heard some deviations on the actual height
and all that stuff.

DAVID DUVAL: Well, it's very thick. It's not terribly long, but that doesn't mean you
can play out of it, either. I don't know what the height of it would be. But the thickness
is such that I think they would accomplish it being what it is, as opposed to it being
six-inch longer grass. I don't see you hitting 6-irons out of it, unless you get a very,
very good lie.

DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, I think it's a bit longer than that around the greens. But off the
fairways, I probably wouldn't even have guessed it was that high. Maybe less than that
even. But it plays, like I said, such that it's six or seven inches because it's so thick.

Q. Would you be in the same frame of mind right now as far as your confidence this week
if you had won last week? Would you have the same kind of feelings about your game?

DAVID DUVAL: As if I had won the playoff? 

Q. Yes.

DAVID DUVAL: Yes, I feel great about my golf game. Playoffs are just -- it's just that
you don't know what's going to happen in those things. And as I said Sunday when we were
done, I didn't feel like I should have been in a playoff. I feel like I should have been
two or three shots ahead of the field. But I also said that Dennis Paulson might have very
well felt the same way. But that's just me sitting there -- it's hard for me to be upset
about losing that playoff because I don't think I should have been in it. So I wasn't
disappointed so much about that. My biggest disappointment was the fact that I failed to
get clear of that playoff, which I felt like I should have done.

Q. When you get in the thick stuff around the green, what's the ratio of (inaudible.)

DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. Obviously, a lot depends on where the ball ends up. Maybe
there's some skill involved in making sure you miss the greens below the hole, I don't
know. But there's a lot of luck involved with the lie you get, whether people have
trampled it in front of you, or maybe the grass is growing into the ball or growing with
it. But that's -- it's every year. And really, it's every week on Tour. And it's just --
you can talk about it until you're blue in the face, but I guess it's just golf in the
end. And why is it that you can have one guy hit a golf ball into the rough and the other
guy hits it right next to him. I might hack it out and hit a 3-iron to the green. You're
going to have those situations occur, and you have to chalk it up to the experience of
playing in this event. 

Q. Much is made in every event with you and Tiger Woods that the two of you are the top
two golfers in the world. Do you think the two of you in this event are kind of competing
against each other, or do you really think that this being the U.S. Open the top golfers
in the world, that it really is anybody's event?

DAVID DUVAL: Well, I think it's wide open. I think at this point right now, too, you're
not -- it's not a fair comparison, comparing Tiger and me. He's really outplayed me for
the past year. But I think when you enter a U.S. Open, it is a great equalizer. And
whoever is on top of their game and on top of their wits and nerves and their attitude,
all that, is the guy you need to look to as the favorite. So, I'm not saying I will be the
favorite to win, but I feel like my golf game is good. I feel like I have my head is where
it needs to be. I'll be the first to tell you it hasn't been where it should be ever since
Augusta. But then again, I haven't played much. But I feel great about everything else
going on, and I'm looking forward to playing. I think any time Tiger plays a golf
tournament, you have to look at him as a favorite. But I think this is the kind of event
that brings everybody closer together, and it becomes a real patience contest. You've
really got to be careful of what you're doing. 

Q. What are your sentiments about changing No. 2 from a 5 par to a 4 par?

DAVID DUVAL: The way I feel about that and about this game, we play 18 holes and it's a
progression of numbers. A 6 can be offset quickly by two 3's following it. Whether that
hole is a 4 or 5 par, in the end, it doesn't matter. 278, let's say, is the winning score.
Well, it doesn't matter if No. 2 is a par-5 or par-4, to get to 278. So I'm not concerned
about that. I think that -- I understand completely the reasoning behind it, and I would
tend to agree with the USGA. That tree being gone has changed that. And it sets it up --
before, you had to kind of work around it, which made it difficult at times to get it on
the green. Now you can play out left and bring it in the other way, and it makes it a lot
easier to get it -- to access the green. So I'm going to play it on the back tee every
day. They'll probably move it up another tee for a day or two. I don't have any problem
with that. It's fine. I agree with their thinking. 

Q. What iron did you hit in today?

DAVID DUVAL: I hit a 4-iron, I think, this morning. But I think that that's about -- I
might hit a little bit less. I just teed off. It was early; it was still wet. You've got
to think, we're used to being -- playing the course in February is entirely different than
what you see out there right now. And when we're used to it in February, it's a driver and
3-wood. The ball flies out and plugs, and you pick it up, clean it off, and set it back
down. And you hit it up on the green, and it plugs up there and you're left with a 3-wood.
Now the ball is running a lot more. You'll be able to chase it out there. I don't think
you'll see people hit woods and stuff -- I think the middle of the long irons. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT