BUICK CLASSIC
June 10, 2000
David Duval
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID DUVAL: I 3-putted the third green from about 40 feet behind the hole. Made about
a 30-foot putt for birdie on 16. Just a short one down 18. 

Q. Did you hit in two? 

DAVID DUVAL: I hit 3-iron just over the green. Chip down to nothing. 

Q. Your thoughts about the way you played today and the first two round, the conditions
of the course, how you've played over the three rounds? 

DAVID DUVAL: I feel like I've played pretty well. We covered the golf course earlier in
the week, and, you know, today it was a lot more difficult than the last couple days. But
I feel like I did okay. I hung in there. I wasn't real, real, real sharp, but at the same
time, I wasn't way off. Hit a few good shots coming down the stretch and very, very
pleased.

Q. You could have elected like some guys and not played and practiced for Pebble. How
do you feel like you're playing approaching Pebble Beach?

DAVID DUVAL: I feel like I'm playing very well; so I'm looking forward to next week. I
don't think you get yourself in position to win by playing poorly. I think everything is
about where I would like for it to be, and just be a little more sharp tomorrow, and then
next week, and some good things can happen. 

Q. David do you like it when conditions get narly? Does that suit you?

DAVID DUVAL: I like it when it plays difficult, with precision and more patience, and I
feel like I can be good at both those things. 

Q. Had it been a little soft today, perhaps Paulson and the leaders could have
separated themselves a little bit, is that possibly the way it could have gone had it not
gotten more difficult?

DAVID DUVAL: I really don't know how it could have gone. It could have done a lot of
different things, but what happened were conditions were a little difficult and golf
course was firming up. And there's not a whole lot of sense about talking about what if it
was soft because it was not. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, it's a difficult day, and you probably saw a few scores of 2-, 3-,
4-under, and might not even seen one at 5(-under), I don't know. But, you know, very few
really low scores, and even the few scores at 3- or 4-under. So it just shows that it's
playing very hard. And I hung in there on a tough day and made two birdies and a bogey and
made up three shots on the lead, you know, and I like that. 

Q. Do you think that people enjoy coming here, looking at the leaderboard, seeing your
name Phil Mickelson, Ernie Els and the big stars of the game on the leaderboard right
there? 

DAVID DUVAL: I would hope so, but, you know, I think that you should ask the people
coming to the gate tomorrow whether they like that, not me. 

Q. Do you watch any other sports? 

DAVID DUVAL: Uh-huh.

Q. Do you like watching big stars? 

DAVID DUVAL: I enjoy the game, you know. 

Q. Are you much of a scoreboard watcher in the final round? And in this situation with
so many guys, will you start paying attention a little bit earlier than other situations? 

DAVID DUVAL: I don't know if I will or not. I think the weather is supposed to be
similar tomorrow; so the golf course is going to be playing very difficult again, and so
you kind of know that if you can piece together just a few birdies and a good day, you can
win. I think you certainly need be aware at some point of what's going on around you. This
course is such on the back nine where it's not like you can start firing at the flag on 11
or 12 or any of these holes. They are very, very difficult holes, and so, you know, 17th
hole is a shorter hole you can birdie. 18th hole you can reach. But other than that, you
have the 10th hole that you can birdie, but other than that, it seems like you have to hit
some really, really good shots on all the others. And so I think you really need to pay
attention to just playing well. 

Q. How close was this to U.S. Open conditions today? Fairly close?

DAVID DUVAL: Yeah, they were getting there. I think the greens weren't as hard and
probably not quite as fast, but they -- it's getting there. I imagine tomorrow will be a
lot more like they had envisioned the course playing all week than the way it did the
first couple of days. 

Q. Are you glad that it's -- again, you don't want to look ahead, I understand, but
considering next week and the conditions, are you happy that now it looks like the last
two days are going to be like what you're going to see next week?

DAVID DUVAL: Absolutely. I came here feeling like this is a golf course that fairways
tend to be to be narrower, the rough is high, and the greens are probably like we'll see
out there; they tend to be hard and fast. I think that's good preparation. A lot better
preparation than I would have done in Florida because, you know, you don't have anything
that can get close to that. And so I -- you know, I think that -- that's kind of why I
came here and I also just like playing this golf course. It's a nice place. 

Q. Is it an advantage coming in so that you don't have to sort of look ahead you can
concentrate on just playing well and some time if you were home and just practicing, you
might more be looking ahead and this way you focus on playing competitively and not having
that out in front of you?

DAVID DUVAL: I think that's a lot of reason. I think you can jump the gun a little bit
and the temptation probably would have been very great to, you know, have been there
already; having probably played a round of golf today out there. And that can -- really,
you can kind of overdo it at some point. And, you know, certainly the fairways, everything
can be harder and faster than what we might see it usually in February. But we know the
golf course. And, you know, I think that the lines you take are still going to be kind of
the lines you need to take, and so it just might not be -- where you hit the golf ball in
AT&T is kind of where you're going to want to hit the golf ball in this event coming
up. But the ball is going to do a lot of rolling to get there; it's not going to be fly
and drive 270 yards and just plugs. You might be hitting a 2-iron to accomplish that and
it's going to be running out. 

Q. I know you're going to be obviously managing your own game tomorrow, but can you
appreciate what looks like it -- potentially, this board looks like it's going to be an
interesting shootout tomorrow with some big names. Can you appreciate that as you're a
part of that? 

DAVID DUVAL: I think it's always exciting when you enter an event and you have a chance
to win, and to win you have to beat the name players in the field -- I shouldn't say the
names, but the highest-ranked players in the field. You know that's kind of what you
strive for, those kind of shootouts and those kind of battles. It seems like all of the
guys are playing well, and that, you know, I'm sure the people here are happy about that,
but at the same time, you know, it's kind of an exciting preview to the next week, as
well, because you know there's going to be a lot of people going in there playing well. 

Q. Before the Masters, you said, "I feel like I can win this tournament, I feel
like my game is there." How do you feel your game is compared to three or four months
ago and do you have that same sentiment going into the next major of the year?

DAVID DUVAL: I am excited about it. Those are my plans and intentions, playing great
and to win the golf tournament. I think that come Thursday, I'll be ready to play, and,
you know, I think that my golf is -- like I said, about where I'd like for it to be. And,
you know, maybe sharpen up a few things, but I think it's all pretty good. 

Q. Is it as good or better or the same as it was three or four months ago? 

DAVID DUVAL: You know, I think overall, I'd have to say it's better. Simply because I
feel like I'm in a better -- I feel like I'm swinging the golf club better and I feel like
I am -- I feel like I'm putting like I put again. You know, I feel like me again putting,
kind of been the biggest thing. 

Q. Every major, everybody looks to you. This is the time when the fact that you haven't
won one, do you get more anticipation that you're going to break through? 

DAVID DUVAL: I don't know. Like I said, I can -- you know I've put in the preparation,
and I will do more so next week, and then if I go play -- beyond that, I'm not concerned.
I feel like I have a great chance to win next week. Those are my intentions. That's what I
intend to do, and beyond that, I'm not really -- the other stuff I could -- I don't care
about. 

Q. You seem very confident about next week, but do you feel you need to win tomorrow to
secure that more, does it matter at all? 

DAVID DUVAL: You know, I don't know. Winning tomorrow will have nothing to do with
winning next week. If I don't win tomorrow, it doesn't mean I can't win next week. 

Q. You will you go out and play right away or will you take a day or two off?

DAVID DUVAL: I'll probably play two days. I'm probably going to play Tuesday and
Wednesday is what I will do. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT