NCAA BASEBALL CHAMPIONSHIP SUPER REGIONALS: BATON ROUGE
June 11, 2016
Gary Gilmore
Seth Lancaster
Mike Morrison
Connor Owings
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CCU - 11, LSU - 8   
GARY GILMORE: Proud of my kids.  Best starters in the country, very proud of them.   
THE MODERATOR: Two big at-bats in the sixth and seventh inning, two-run homer in the seventh.  Talk about those two at-bats, please.   
CONNOR OWINGS: The double off Lange, he had been throwing well all night.  He had my number the first two at-bats.  Trying to get something to drive.  The home run, pitch out over the plate, put a swing on it and good things worked out for us.   
SETH LANCASTER: The starter, he was mixing it pretty well.  Got an early fastball.  Got lucky, just fell for me.   I was seeing the ball well all night.  Just got lucky.   
THE MODERATOR: Mike, came in in the seventh and closed it down.  Is that your longest stint on the mound?   
MIKE MORRISON: No.  Had some better ones.  Bobby did a heck of a job tonight.  Got two quick innings there.  Pitching with a six-run lead -- inaudible -- it was a good night out there.   
 Q.  Connor, how good was Lange through the first five innings and what changed?  
CONNOR OWINGS: First five he had really good command.  He was dumping his breaking ball in for a strike at will and they had it down in the dirt later to get you to chase and he was moving his fastball around to both sides of plate.  And it's really hard to hit against a guy like that because you have to divide the plate up and you know if he didn't throw what you're looking for, you've got to tip your cap.   
 Q.  Seth, the ball in the stands down the right feel line, did you know anything going on?  What were you thinking at that point?  You probably thought it was fair.  
SETH LANCASTER: Yeah, I watched it.  I hit it, glad I got a bat on it.  It was a pretty good pitch.  It landed right on the line, came around second, looking -- he didn't know what to do. He wasn't stopping me so I just kept running.  Worked out.   
 Q.  This is the closest you've ever been to the College World Series.  I know it's not done yet, but what are your emotions right now and what's going through your mind?  
GARY GILMORE: For me, I'm tired, it's way past my bed time.  We've got a long way to go to get another win here.  That's a very talented and proud team, and I'm sure they are going to come at us tomorrow way harder than they came at us today if that's possible.   
So I know we've got a lot in front of us to be able to accomplish that.   
CONNOR OWINGS: Like Gary said, that's a very goo ballclub, and the arms they've got, they definitely have the arms to get the job done and we're just going to try to do what we've done all season and stick with our process and take it one pitch at a time and trust each other and pick each other up like we've done all season and just stick to it.   
 Q.  As you guys bounced back from that three-run home run down 4-2, what was the conversation in the dugout?  
SETH LANCASTER: Picking people up, going to go out there -- he got three really quick outs right after the home run and he got us back in the dugout and guys have been swinging it like this all year.   
 Q.  How big was it for y'all to get out of LSU's fifth just 1-1?  
GARY GILMORE: Absolutely.  It's those moments that when you're able to get out and keep it close, that's what I kind of felt like all game long, if we could just hang around, hang around and hopefully put a swing or two on the ball.  I'm sure didn't expect it to be what it ended up being on either side.  I thought it was going to be way more of a 3-2, 4-3-type game.  Both teams scored more runs than they probably expected to.   
 Q.  What's your pitching plans for tomorrow, and what is Mike's availability tomorrow?  
GARY GILMORE: He won't throw tomorrow no matter what.  We'll see.  We'll talk about it when we get back to the hotel and kind of figure out exactly where we're at.   
 Q.  How much of an impact did he have on the guys that went today?  
GARY GILMORE: Well, we're trying to counteract those -- inaudible -- we're going to have our own little thing.  It's kind of caught on to our whole ballclub and believe in it just like you guys do.  We're just excited to be where we're at right now to be honest with you.  We'll see how tomorrow and the next day go.   
 Q.  You rallied in the sixth and seventh inning and it seems like your team has a lot of spirit and don't give up, and it seems like your experience in the past is starting to payoff now, especially with the sixth and seventh inning.  Do you think the rallies and the experience in the past, especially in the NC State regional has helped you so far?  
GARY GILMORE: Absolutely.  I honestly think the point in time that turned us around that really made us the cohesive ballclub that we truly are is the three defeats we took at Georgia Tech.   
Really made us all, coaching staff and players, we all had a long look at ourselves in the mirror and realized that we had to play better and each guy had to pick each other up and from that point on, these guys have been unbelievable where they compete and battle.   
I'll say it, no matter what happens, the next two days, it was an unbelievable brotherhood amongst these guys that they won't let each other down.   
 Q.  LSU is a tough place to play.  What does it say about your team that you come in here, first time you've ever played here and you were able to overcome the atmosphere and intensity here?  
GARY GILMORE: I tell you what, the atmosphere, I've been in a lot of ballparks and college baseball, and the atmosphere here is as good as anywhere I've ever been.  As noisy and loud as it was, I didn't hear one person say anything inappropriate.  I wish every ballpark was like this to be honest with you.  It was an incredible experience.  Their fans are unbelievable.  Those guys that play for LSU are so blessed to have this type of atmosphere to play in every day.  It's a privilege to come here and play, and I'm glad our guys were able to block out the noise.   
We've never played in front of that in my career here as Coastal with that type of deafening cheering that they were doing for their team when things were going well.  So you know, it is; it's a unique atmosphere.   
 Q.  Coach Mainieri described you guys as kind of a scrappy team, the way the balls were flying out of the yard and alleys, I'm not sure that's the right adjective to describe your team; how would you describe yourselves?  
CONNOR OWINGS: I think that's actually spot on.  The guys in there, it's definitely close to scrappy than anything else.  Mark and Anthony -- day-in and day-out, all those guys, they just have so much fun, man, it's more of a brotherhood-hype scrappy mentality than anything else I would say Coach Mainieri is right on.   
 Q.  The last play of the game.  
SETH LANCASTER: I had no idea what was going on -- inaudible -- looked up.  Probably the weirdest ending to a ballgame I've ever been in my career.  But we got the win and that's all that matters.   
 Q.  How are you keeping this up at this pace?  
SETH LANCASTER: Just come to the park every day -- God makes it really easy to go to work and do what we love, and that's play ball.  And to get an opportunity to come out in this stadium in front of these fans, it's a true blessing.  I'm just blessed to be able to have a little success and help these guys out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT