SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP MEDIA DAY
May 1, 2006
Tom King
Mike Reid
Tommy Roy
Roger Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 TOMMY ROY:  I'm aboard.   
  
  
  
  
  
 TOM KING:  Thanks, Julius.  On behalf of the members of Oak Tree Golf Club and the community at large, we are very pleased, obviously, to be able to host another championship event here at this club.  This club opened for play in 1976 and was one of Pete Dye's regional masterpieces and continues to this day to be a masterpiece as all of you all saw that got to play it today.   
 It combines precision, ball-striking, as well as demand on the greens.  I played with Mike Reid today, and he indicated that he thought he had every club in his bag today except a 3-iron.  He said that some of the courses that they play around the regular tour of the Senior Tour that he might have an 8-iron five or six times into a green.  And he's excited about the quality of the course that he saw and the test that it's going to be for them.   
 We want to let you all know that it's not too late for either getting people out to buy tickets.  We have plenty of tickets left.  We have had an excellent year of selling the championship.  We have sold 18 chalets.  We had hoped to sell 17 and they sold an extra one from us and we went ahead and let them have it.  We do have a Trophy Club.  The Trophy Club tickets are available, I believe that they are $210 for the week.   
 And the Trophy Club is a very nice facility.  We were at the one that PGA set up at Baltusrol this last year.  It's got all sorts of food facilities in there from what you can purchase.  There may be even a libation or two available some, great tables, lots of TVs to watch the tournament from and it will be a location where you can see the golf course and easily enter on to the golf course from there.   
 We also have some weekly grounds passes available for, I think they are $100 a person.  On Monday and Wednesday are the practice rounds, and on those days, there will be $15 tickets for sales, and cameras are allowed to be brought on to the course those days to take pictures of the pros in this action.   
 Thursday and Friday competition days, I think the tickets are $35 per day, and then the final two days, Saturday and Sunday, they are $45.  And for everyone, every adult who brings a ticket, they may bring a junior free.  So if you have any kind of a ticket that will allow you to be on the golf course, you can bring 17 and under at no charge, and we encourage you to tell everyone to do so because we want this to be something the juniors get to see, some excellent play of some of most magnificent players that have ever played the game.   
 The support that we've had from the business community for this has been outstanding.  We have had golf events in Oklahoma in the past several years, some events that had weather problems and we had complaints from some of the sponsors of those that because of the weather that things did not work out as well.  But they came right to the fore for this event knowing that it was a championship event, the quality of the players that we would have, and have supported us stupendously with, as I said, our 18 chalets.   
 We do have a few hospitality packages available, and if anyone knows anyone who is looking for a special hospitality package, John Hanley (ph) that's up here in the front, John's been magnificent at selling these programs around.  If you can get him in to see somebody, he can sell them.   
 I think that's a Web site that you can still go to, it's www.seniorpga2006.com to see about tickets, or you can call 1-800-PGA-GOLF, and that's 742-4653 for those of you that can't spell.   
 We are extremely excited to, as I say, sponsor this he spent.  And we are excited to roll out the red carpet to the many visitors that we'll have here, not only the ones on site but the millions that will be watching on TV so that they can see the kind of championship golf course we have here, and to enjoy the magnificent hospitality of all Oklahomans.  We have terrific volunteers, we have a terrific field.  We appreciate all that you media have done for us to get this out to the public, and thank you again for being here today.   
  
  
 TOMMY ROY:  My pleasure.  Glad to be with you.  Wish I had been there to see it today.  Sounds like it was pretty nice.   
 It's fair to say that in golf circles, Oak Tree is held in extremely high esteem, and goes without saying, NBC's strong feelings for the Senior PGA Championship.  So our entire team is really looking forward to coming there in a couple of weeks and doing the broadcast of this great championship.   
 As you look at golf nowadays, there's two courses in the Orlando area where Tour players make their home, but Oak Tree was the original in place with the great players that you have there that are members there and live there.   
 I can say from a personal standpoint, I always wanted to see and play Oak Tree for years and last fall finally had the chance to go there when we went to survey the course when we decide where to put our cameras.  I actually had very high expectations and I was not disappointed.  It's a very picturesque place, very demanding, very unique and interesting layout that I think will be very exciting for our viewers.   
 And as I look in my crystal ball, I see a lot of birdies and bogeys on holes 10 through 18, which quite frankly is just fine with me, because that's going to create a lot of movement up-and-down the leaderboard, which in the end means more drama for the broadcast.   
 As I mentioned I think the place is just gorgeous and that's going to be accentuated by the fact that the first High Definition broadcast for the NBC golf team is going to take place at your championship there at Oak Tree.  From now on on our golf coverage, if it's logistically possible, every golf broadcast will be in Hi-Def.  So there are brand new television trucks that actually the construction process is wrapping up right now and the very first telecast that they will ever do will be right there from Edmond, Oklahoma.   
 Our entire crew is coming in two to four days earlier than they would for a normal event.  We have a crew, by the way of 150 of which 120 will be coming in from out of town and we'll higher about 30 locals to help out.  We'll have about 25 cameras and the announce team covering the action will be:  Dan Hicks, Johnny Miller, Gary Koch, Bob Murphy, Roger Maltbie, Mark Rolfing and Jimmy Roberts.  As I mentioned, they are coming in, everyone, all of us are coming in two to four days early so that we can do a mock telecast on Tuesday the week of the championship and do a shakedown of the new trucks and give our technicians and engineers Wednesday to fix any glitches that may come up.  But we feel pretty confident that there won't be any and things will be ready to roll on Thursday.   
 So in summary, it's been a long time since a big time events with national TV coverage has been played at Oak Tree but I think there's going to be a real sense of anticipation and a real buzz in the world of golf to be able to come there and watch a championship played on that great course.  We had a real dramatic ending last year with Mike Reid's playoff win as you just saw in the highlights, and we look forward to another fantastic finish at the Senior PGA Championship in a couple of weeks.   
  
 TOMMY ROY:  Sure.  It's Dan Hicks, Johnny Miller, they will be in the 18th tower.  In our outer tower is Gary Koch and Bob Murphy.  And then the roving reporters are Roger Maltbie and Mark Rolfing, and then Jimmy Roberts will be doing his interviews and essays.   
  
 TOMMY ROY:  Well, thank you.   
  
  
 ROGER WARREN:  Thank you, Julius.  Ladies and gentlemen it is certainly an honor and pleasure to be here for the 67th Senior PGA Championship at Oak Tree and we are thrilled to be here.   
 There are a number of things happening with the PGA of America this year that are also noteworthy.  This is our 90th anniversary.  We just recently celebrated at the Martinique Hotel in New York the 90th anniversary of the establishment of the PGA of America back in 1916.  In 1916, the group of people that got together that created the PGA of America had two major missions:  One, to raise the professional standards of the PGA professional, and the other is to grow participation in the game.   
 Since 1916, PGA professionals around this country have worked hard every day to do that, and we're very proud of their efforts.  And one of the programs recently that we developed in that effort to grow participation and continue to grow participation in the game is Play Golf America.  Play Golf America is an industry-leading program that looks to bring adults who have played the game before back into the game, or adults who have never played into the game for the first time.  And they do that by going to a Web site called PlayGolfAmerica.com, put in their zip code and they find a program in their local community.   
 This year, as a part of the Senior PGA Championship here in Oklahoma, there will be a Play Golf America Day on May 21st at Lincoln Park.  We are looking forward to having high participation in that as we do at many of the Play Golf America Days, and the first 275 people who register through PlayGolfAmerica.com for that day will receive free tickets to the events here at the Senior PGA Championship.  So we encourage them to go to PlayGolfAmerica.com, attend the Play Golf America Day and be part of this great event.   
 In 21 days, the State of Oklahoma and Oak Tree Golf Club are going to have the opportunity to be the site for the 67th Senior PGA Championship.  In 2001, the PGA of America made a commitment that we are going to take the Senior PGA Championship on the road to the finest golf venues we can in this country to be able to showcase the great senior players for this, the oldest, of the senior championships.  This championship was started 67 years ago at Augusta National when Bobby Jones held the first -- allowed the PGA of America to have the first Senior PGA Championship there.   
 The field every year is the strongest field in senior golf; this year will be no exception to that.  Currently we have 134 of the 156-player field established after the exemption date, and we will by May 15th have the final field completed, 156 players.   
 Now there are some numbers here that I think that you want to know, so let's just go through them very quickly.  There are 104 U.S. players representing 31 states.  There are 31 international players representing 12 countries.  There are 22 major champions who have combined to win 60 major championships that will be in this field.  We will have 14 U.S. Open Champions, 13 Senior PGA Champions, nine Ryder Cup Captains, eight PGA Champions, six Masters champions and six British Open Champions.  So you can see that the quality of this field every year surpasses the quality of any other Senior Championship that these players play in.   
 We are always excited every year to have our television partners, NBC and USA Networks, involved with showing the ten-hours of coverage that we will have this year.  And this year, that ten hours of coverage will be broadcast over 299 million households worldwide.  So you can see the exposure of this event is a worldwide exposure.   
 Last year we had a wonderful championship at Laurel Valley in Pennsylvania.  And if you remember the ending of that day, our eventual winner was eight strokes behind with six holes to play, and three shots behind on the 18th tee.  He eagled the final hole and got into a playoff and then birdied the final hole to win the championship.   
 I had the opportunity to play the golf course today with Mike Reid, and for myself, it was the first time I had the opportunity to play the golf course.  This is a spectacular layout.  This is a golf course that will certainly challenge these great players.  It will certainly live up to the standards that the PGA of America has established for a venue for the Senior PGA Championship.  I think that watching Mike play today and watching the shots that he had to execute today and the variety of those shots and the challenge of tee shots here, and the green complexes, this is going to be a great and exciting championship.   
 Mike is a 1976 graduate of Brigham Young University.  He joined the Tour in 1977 and was a member of that circuit until 2001.  He played in 575 events and made the cut in 415 of them.  Winning two and adding the 1990 Casio World Open.  He joined the Champions Tour in 2004 and last year had seven Top-10 finishes in 21 events.  Golf fans remember him affectionately as "Radar" because of his ability to hit the driver in the fairway.  Today we saw that radar in every club as he was consistently knocking down flags and hitting it very close.   
 Ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure to introduce to you the defending champion of the Senior PGA Championship, Mr. Mike Reid.   
 MIKE REID:  Thank you, Roger.  Thank you.  It's a privilege to be here and get reacquainted with Oak Tree.  I played here in 1988 in the PGA and don't remember too much about it but some things came back to memory today.  I'm grateful for the hospitality of Doug Tewell and got a pretty nice place to stay, about a 9-iron shot away from the clubhouse, a wedge for Doug, 9-iron for me.   
 But it's a great, great honor to be here.  You saw some of the video and maybe you've taken a glance at the trophy and looked at some of the names on it.  When I reflect about last year's championship, I'm reminded of something Arnold Palmer said when he said that -- he once wrote that "Golf frustrates the intellect yet pleases the soul.  A child plays it well, but no adult can ever master it."   
 As I came down towards the finish of last year's tournament at Laurel Valley, I think I share something in common with all of you in here, whether you're trying to break 100 or 90 or whatever goal you set for yourself, whatever motivates you to go out to the golf course that day.  If I'm not wrong, and I don't think I am, a lot of times we'll good out to the golf course and maybe something clicks on the driving range or we'll see a day that's bright and beautiful as today is.  Sometimes on the first tee we'll listen to a little voice win us that says, "Maybe."  It always starts with the word maybe.  "Maybe today is my day.  Maybe this is my week."   
 I know that as a professional and having played in many tournaments and these fellows at this table can attest to that as well, a lot of times you play with the idea that maybe if things work out, that can happen.  And so you disregard the statistics.  You disregard how many shots down you are.  You could care less about who you're trailing.  It's still that little voice that says "maybe," and sometimes it hollers at you.  Maybe you can pull this off.   
 So that kind of motivated me on the last few holes last year.  And I know that I received more help than one man can give to another, things had to happen in a certain way.  And I can't complain how the fates combine or cosmic tumblers turn out, but there it was, and it was an opportunity that I don't think would have existed if not for a great game that whispers to all of us, the word maybe.  A month from now, there's going to be 150-some fellas out here that are going to approach that first tee, and I don't know how it's going to play out.  But I know the fella that wins here is going to have to be a pretty patient sort, and he's going to have to have a lot of shots in his bag, because this is a very thorough test of golf.   
 What I like about it is it's very even-handed.  It doesn't put any more weight on the driver than it does the approach shots.  It doesn't put any more weight on putting than if does any other aspects of the game.  It's a very multi-dimensional golf course, and I know I've got almost every club in my bag dirty today.  Tom mentioned I didn't hit my 3-iron, but I wanted to correct him and say, I should have hit it on one hole.  But I didn't.  It's just a beautiful -- I think it's very challenging with the contours, and that's one of Pete Dye ace characteristics, not just on the greens but on the fairways.  So it's a thinking-man's golf course, and I think it's going to produce -- I know it's going to produce a great champion.  We played it being pretty benign conditions, not very much wind, the greens were kind of soft.  But they are going to pick up more speed and the rough is going to be a little bit deeper.  And even if the wind doesn't blow, it's going to be a heck of a test of golf.  We might not have enough room on the score board for the numbers that can grow up because this is a good test of golf.  I'm looking forward to it.  Excited to be here.  It's an honor to play here today and to be in your company, and I'll be looking forward to it a month from now.  I'll be talking it up between now and then amongst the fellas on the Champions Tour and a lot of people are excited come here and I'm grateful to see all of the work that's been done already here and the sacrifices that have been made by the members.  I think you're going to find as the tournament week unfolds that it's well worth it and we're certainly looking forward to it.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
 MIKE REID:  Oh, I didn't drive it very well there.  I wound up chipping out, hit a wedge on and ended up two putting for bogey.  Doug was watching me there, I was nervous.  (Laughter).   
 Next hole, I got on the fairway on the second and it was quite a ways, I think I hit about a 5-iron.  I didn't get the drive down the left side, and 2-putted for par there.  I think I made a pretty routine par on the next hole, the par 5.   
 I missed the green on the fourth with a 4-wood to the right.  It was playing about 224 I think.  But chipped on pretty close and made the putt there.  I think another routine par on 5 and 6.  Was 7 playing downwind?  I think -- is the prevailing wind on 7 down?  I know I parred that hole but I can't remember what I hit into the green.  I think it was a drive and a middle iron.   
 No. 8, I hit a 7-iron and made a birdie there.  And 7-iron on 7.   
 9, I hit a driver and a 4-iron up the hill there pretty close and made a birdie there.   
 10 was a drive and a 9-iron.  The pin was down front.  We had some pretty kind pin placements today.  But I looked at every green, and I looked at places and I hope the superintendent doesn't get in a bad mood because there are some places out there that I looked around and pretty neat pin placements.   
 Then as Tommy Roy was saying earlier, the roller coaster started, and life got pretty interesting on the last eight holes.  I think I bogeyed 11 and 12 and hit it in the water and made an X on 13.  I think I had straight pars there the rest of the way in.  Missed a green or two here and there.   
 It's a good test of golf and I think it's pretty well balanced, as I said.  I think today was a little bit reminiscent of my whole year.  I kind of don't know who is going to show up.  I had some good weeks this season, but consistency has been kind of here and there.  Today was kind of that day.  I wished that guy in the middle of this round would show up a little more often because this course, and the game, frankly, is pretty easy when you're hitting it from spot to spot.  As I said at one point, I love boring, I love to be boring, hit the fairway, hit the green, take your chances.  But when you start missing shots a little bit and have to get creative, I think resourcefulness and determination are pretty good characteristics to use on this golf course, as well.  I had to be a little more resourceful than I wish right towards the end there, but still it's a good test of golf, a little up-and-down today.   
  
  Q.  Do you get mulligans for those X's?  And a couple of questions.  If the course played tougher with the rough up and the greens faster, what do you think that score would have been today?  And if they lengthened the course, say it was a PGA tournament, how tough would it be for the PGA players, tour players?   
 MIKE REID:  That's one thing that struck me.  When I got to each tee, I think it was just almost every tee, I would look back and there's another tee.   
 So I think this is, you know, I realize I've been removed from tour competition for four or five years, but it looked like all a player could want from the back of these tees.  This course, in fact, serves -- does a great service to the fellas that do live here and do play on the PGA TOUR, because I can't see any better preparation, any sterner test of golf than this course from the back tees.  We played a little bit up today, and I'm kind of glad we were up.   
 I think with the greens firmer, it would be more -- it would put more weight on shot-making.  They are going to speed up a little bit, too, and I think with the warmer weather, the roughs are going to get a little more dense.  It's going to be a good test of golf I think.   
  Q.  When Palmer and Watson didn't win on the regular PGA and won the Senior PGA, they saw it as redemption.  I wonder if you thought that, given what happened in '89?   
 MIKE REID:  Yeah, I guess in some respects.  You know, I feel like, I don't know, somehow things have a way of evening out.   
 But you know, I think that especially came to my mind when the thought occurred to me going from the ninth to the 10th hole that Payne Stewart had had a 32 on the back nine at Kemper Lakes.  I don't know why this shot would have jumped into my head then but nevertheless it was inspirational.  It wasn't, oh, geez.  It was one of those thoughts that really lifted me.  So maybe in some kind of a poetic way across the decades, that was some kind of way of things evening out, I don't know.   
  Q.  Mr. King, a couple questions.  First of all, if you would address the members, the community and the support they have shown so far.  Also, the volunteers, how many people will you have volunteers and what are the things they will be doing?   
 TOM KING:  Well, as I said, our corporate sponsorship, Oklahoma City isn't known necessarily as having the largest number of corporate headquarters in the world.  So the corporate sponsors that we have had have just been wonderful.  As I said, we sold 18 chalets, which is a pretty good duty with over 100 people in those chalets and with entertainment for four days.  So we were pleased with the corporate turnout for that.   
 The clubs around the state have been more than helpful in getting volunteers to us.  Having knowledgeable people in the golf world come to be our volunteers.  So the entire state has been extremely supportive of the entire tournament.  The number of volunteers I believe we will have I believe will be 1,800.  And we have room for one more, we asked Steve Levens (ph) if he could volunteer, but he wanted to pay, so we're just going to have 1,800.   
  Q.  Mr. Warren, can you tell us how the PGA feels about what it means to the PGA for the Senior PGA coming here to Oak Tree with the long history and the PGA Championship we had here and the history of the course?   
 ROGER WARREN:  I think that it's reflective, first of all, of the importance that our events have to our association to our members.  They are so important to us in terms of the Association and that be first, last, remember all of our members in the way that they are conducted and quality of the competition.  And then to come back to a site that's a former PGA Championship site I think says a lot about how we feel about the golf course and about the community, and about the quality of the experience that the players who come here will have.   
 So I think that it is clearly indicative that when we were here in 1988 and then coming back now 2006, that Oak Tree is a golf course that the PGA of America values for what it means to great championships, and that's very important to the PGA of America.  So I think that it's a very important partnership and a relationship for all of us.   
  Q.  Mr. Roy, how far in advance will you and your team be arriving in Edmond to set up for the championship?   
 TOMMY ROY:  Well, there will be a group arriving there now, actually, to start working on the towers out there.  And then the majority of the technicians will arrive the previous Wednesday, so ten days in advance.  And we will have the whole golf course and our production set up by that Sunday night.  I will actually be arriving there on Sunday, as well.   
  Q.  Mr. Warren, why didn't you mention Joe's drive on 11 and the par I made on 4?  You talked about Mike's game but you didn't say anything about ours?   
 ROGER WARREN:  I'm just getting old.  I can only remember my game barely.  (Laughter).   
  Q.  Mike, when you were playing the course today, what aspects of the course did come back to your mind from '88; is there a hole or two that triggered memories?   
 MIKE REID:  I think after I got to kind of the middle of front nine, I started recalling how the course seems to ask you to fade the ball off one tee or draw it off the next, and then the wind can dictate what you might want to do with it.   
 So I think a lot of the rank-and-file courses we play get to be pretty one-dimensional where you just kind of, you don't need to be that specific.  But I was looking at the way the fairways contour here and recall thinking, you know, that's -- you know, the architect here is always kind of suggesting you do something, and then some cases he sort of demands you do something with the ball.  And so you're always trying to work the ball, which is I think fun and it takes some skill.  That's been one of the challenges on this golf course is working the ball, and I think if it's dry and the fairways start to run a little bit, I think it will be even more so.   
  Q.  Going back to last year at Laurel Valley, did you need that to define your career and get that bad taste of Kemper Lakes out of your mouth and out of the memory banks?   
 MIKE REID:  No.  I don't think it changed my life winning.  I don't think if I hadn't won it would have been -- your career kind of is what it is.  I've enjoyed the process and the game and playing and competing so much that as much as you enjoy winning and as special as it is, I would just come short of saying I needed to.  You just felt like you want to, you want to in the worst way, you and sometimes, in fact, that gets in your way of winning championships.   
 I've just enjoyed golf tremendously and I've enjoyed the competition even more so and playing great courses.  I know it's trite and cliche to say it, but that's what it's all about.  And when you look at the championships that we're playing for as playing professionals week-in and week-out, there's not many that have their name on a list of a trophy like this.  I guess they can, in fact, define your career from a history standpoint.   
 But it's just great to be playing and to be healthy and have somewhere to play at this time of my life.  You know, I'm still pinching myself.  I can't find anything to complain about.  We're out there, the game's been very good.   
  Q.  What would a second one mean, and does that go through your mind?   
 MIKE REID:  Yeah, I think as I mentioned earlier, it's in sort of that "maybe" category.  Gosh, it never -- you know, I try to picture and you develop a strategy and you think of a score as you're playing and practicing on a course as focus in on the tournament as it gets closer what you need to do, how if you perform your job and execute the shot what your goal is.  I've given that some thought.  I just think that it's all part of that process of preparing, and that's what I'm engaged in right now.   
 I think to some extent, last year was so unexpected that perhaps it is would be comforting for me to think that, haven't done this before, maybe I can do it again.  But again, there's that word maybe.  It's out there somewhere.  It's in the dream category.  But it takes execution, and as I said, a patient willingness and determination and resourcefulness on top of all that.   
 There's a friend of mine that writes -- used to write for the Kansas City paper that once wrote a statement that I always liked.  It said, and he's using the analogy of running track and field.  And he said:  "Too soon we rest the tape and too late we learn the joy was in the running."   
 I'm having a lot of fun playing out here and a lot of fun preparing to play.  Usually if you do that and do it well, the outcomes take care of themselves.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT