MERCURY INSURANCE OPEN
July 19, 2012
Urszula Radwanska
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







U. RADWANSKA/M. Oudin
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   What worked well for you today in your match against Oudin? 
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I was playing very good today, and especially I was serving good.   So probably that was the key, because, yeah, I was holding my serve and then I was just, you know, trying to break her. 

Q.   What was your strategy there, go to the backhand a little bit?
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   To be honest, I didn't have any strategy because I never played her, so I didn't know what to expect. 
And, yeah, I was just focusing on myself and trying to do my best and go for my shots and keep the serve.
So, yeah, I'm happy I did well. 

Q.   After two matches here, how would you assess where your game is right now?
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   I mean, I've been playing very good here, and I also played very well in Stanford last week.   I'm pretty confident after those few matches. 
Yeah, I look forward for the next round.

Q.   Your sister's done very well here the last two years.   Has she given you any advice about playing here?
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   No, not really actually.   This is like another tournament, so... 
Yeah, it's great that she won here.   Yeah, that's actually helping me as well, because of course I want to be with the same, I mean, win here.
Yeah, we are talking on Skype every day, but mostly about other things.   Not about the tennis.

Q.   What kind of other things would you be talking about with your sister other than tennis?
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Everything.   Shopping, boys, or like‑‑ yeah, everything.   Life, everything.

Q.   Did she give you some places to go shop?
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I mean, she told me about the outlets here, but actually I didn't have time to go there yet.   (Laughter.)   Maybe after the tournament. 
Yeah, I'm talking about here, like what I'm doing here, and she's talking to me about things in Krakow, what she's doing and how she's preparing.

Q.   Did she give you a request of something to buy for her at the outlets?
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   No, not really actually.   You know, we going to go shopping together after London when we going to come to the United States, like in Cincinnati or New York.   Then probably we're going to go shopping together.

Q.   Speaking of your sister, from what I understand ‑ I wasn't there ‑ but when the umpire announced that you were serving, I believe he said your sister's name rather than your name.   Did you notice? 
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I did.   I noticed that.   Well, I get used to that.   Yeah, a lot of people like compare us to each other.   You know, Agnieszka, if someone is talking like about me, then for sure they going to talk about Aga as well and ask me some question about her because she's famous, she's top player.
So I get used to it.

Q.   So you didn't give the umpire a dirty look or anything like that?
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   I think I did.   I think I look at her pretty scary.   I think I did.   (Laughter.)

Q.   How is your game different from your sister's? 
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Actually, I'm trying to be more aggressive, definitely.   Yeah, I'm trying to go to the net and trying to attack and not to play like long rallies.
My sister, yeah, she's playing like more from the baseline and just waiting for opponent's mistakes. 
So probably this is the different between us.

Q.   You've had a pretty good summer.   Is that the biggest reason why?   What's difference this past summer?   You been playing pretty well. 
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Actually, you know, I'm practicing hard.   Like, to be honest, I don't know why like I'm playing so good right now. 
Yeah, I had pretty good wins a couple weeks ago, so like after every match I'm more confident and with more experience.

Q.   Must have been pretty proud of your sister making the finals as the Championships. 
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, I was very proud.   Unfortunately I wasn't there because I was in Stanford.   But I woke up at 6:00 a.m. and I was watching the final live on TV.

Q.   Are you more nervous when you're playing or watching your sister in a big match?
                     URSZULA RADWANSKA:   No I'm not nervous when she's playing, you know, to be honest with you.

Q.   No?
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   No, because I think it's easy because I'm playing also tennis and I know what the game is like.   Like my mom, she's getting so nervous. 

Q.   Really? 
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, because she's not a tennis player.   Yeah, I think it's easier when I'm playing. 

Q.   You understand it? 
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, exactly.

Q.   Is it a burden having a sister who is so well‑known, or is that an advantage?   What's that like when you're the little sister coming in? 
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   You know, sometimes it's tough because people keep asking me when I'm going to be as good as my sister or when I'm going to be top 10 or something.
So I feel, yeah, a little bit pressure.   But it's also good because I'm also motivating to be as good as she is.   Yeah, we can like practice together and we traveling together, so, yeah, we supporting each other a lot.

Q.   And it took her a little while to get to that level too where she is now.   She fought for a while. 
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Yeah.   Well, actually she's already like for couple years top 10.   But right now, yeah, she's got like in the top 3 even, like she's right now No. 2.
Yeah, also it's the best summer for her.

Q.   Does she help you with the physical or mental part of the game more? 
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Well, it's tough to say, you know.   Like we just practicing together.   It's not that we talking about the tennis or something or that we are giving to each other advices.   It's not really like that. 
Sometimes if I'm playing a player and she played her then sometimes I'm asking her about the strategy or something like that. 
But that's pretty much it.

Q.   Now that you've played Melanie, what did you think about her game?   What impressions did you have? 
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Well, I was playing very good, so I didn't have‑‑ I didn't give her like enough space to put pressure on me. 
She's young, she is talented, so, yeah, for sure she can be a very good player. 

Q.   What would it mean to you to win this tournament after your sister back to back?
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   First I have to win, you know.   But I don't know.   That would be awesome if I'm going to win here.   Yeah, still I have three matches to go, so that's a lot.

Q.   If you win it, do you think they'll get the right name on the trophy?
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   We'll see.   (Laughter.)   Yeah. 

Q.   Hopefully?
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Yeah, hopefully.   Hopefully. 

Q.   Given any thoughts to the Olympics next week?   Looking forward to the opening ceremony? 
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   Well, actually, the matches start Saturday.   I'm going to play on Saturday, so probably I'm not going to go because it's like a long‑‑ yeah, you have to like stand there for a long time.
I don't know about.   Yeah, for sure would be like great feeling to be there at the opening ceremony, but I don't know yet if I'm going to make it.

Q.   (Question regarding doubles with Agnieszka.)
URSZULA RADWANSKA:   It's great, you know.   It's awesome feelings playing doubles with her, so it means a lot to me.   I'm very happy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT