SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 23, 2010
Jean Chau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen Jean Chau leading Malaysian after a round of 68 today.   
 JEAN CHAU: Yeah. 68.  
 THE MODERATOR: Congratulations. Firstly, tell us about your round today.   
 JEAN CHAU: Thank you. My round today was pretty solid. I hit it pretty good. I was a little shaky with the putts on the front nine, but on the back nine they started going in.   
 Had a great eagle on hole, I think 5. It was a par-4, short par-4. Had a wedge in, and it knocked into the pin and went in the hole, so that was great. So it was just a solid round, yeah.  
 THE MODERATOR: So 68, 3-under. Maybe just tell us about birdies you had as well, as well as that cool eagle.   
 JEAN CHAU: Yeah. I birdied the first hole to start with. That kind of boosted confidence playing with Laura Davies and Cristie Kerr. And then I had a bogey to drop the shot. And then I eagled, so I went back to 1-under for total. And I stayed pretty even throughout the rest.  
 And then I birdied 2 on back. Maybe 1. 1 on the back. Sorry. I can't remember. Kind of fuzzy right now, so I birdied one on the back. So it was a pretty solid round. I think I had about two birdies -- maybe three birdies, an eagle and two bogeys.   
 THE MODERATOR: So you played with Cristie Kerr, who's I think No. 2 in the world. Laura Davies has won tournaments all over the world. What was that experience like here at home?   
 JEAN CHAU: It was great. I actually played with Laura Davies before earlier this year in Australia, and that didn't go too well. I couldn't even feel my hands. So I had my first try with Laura Davies, and that was good.   
 Cristie Kerr, I played with her in the practice round. So that wasn't as bad. I really looked up to her during the practice round. I was really impressed with her game. So it was kind of fun playing with two -- Laura Davies, Hall-of-Famer for one, and Cristie Kerr, No. 2 in the world. So it was a great experience for me, and I really learned a lot today.  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, guys?   
  
  Q. Can you tell us about the eagle?  
 JEAN CHAU: Yeah. It was -- I think it's hole 5. It's a short par-4. I hit a hybrid on to the fairway, and then I had about 84 yards to the pin and I just had a wedge. I was just going to bump it on the green and just let it slide down because there was a hill in front, but it kind of caught the hill; and it took a high bounce, but it hit the pin. It hit the pin and dropped right in front of the pin, but it had so much spin on it that it just kept on rolling and went in. So that was really good. Yeah.  
  
  Q. How big of a confidence booster was it to get the eagle?  
 JEAN CHAU: Oh, it was great because right after -- it was right after a bogey, actually, on a par-5, which you're not supposed to do, but it happens. So it was a great booster.   
 It just kind of got me towards underside, and I know I could get lower from there, so it was good.  
  
  Q. Are you in the Top 15?  
 JEAN CHAU: I think I just saw the online scoring just now. I think I'm tied for 13th. I think, yeah.  
  
  Q. (No microphone)?  
 JEAN CHAU: So that's my target right now. It was before the tournament, but I'm striking it really well, putting it really well, so I think I'm going to target for at least Top 10, Top 8 tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What's your game plan for tomorrow?  
 JEAN CHAU: My game plan is pretty much to stay cool in this weather, especially, but the other thing would be to just stay calm.   
 Today I didn't really want to get ahead of myself. So tomorrow I'm just going to plan on improving my score and just take it easy. Trust the putt. If it goes in, it goes in.  
 Cristie Kerr is an incredible player, so she just had a little hard luck today. So I learned a lot from that. If it goes in, it goes in. If it doesn't, I can't get mad and what happens happens. So I'm just going to try and improve the score of today.  
  
  Q. You turned pro about a year ago?   
 JEAN CHAU: Yeah. I turned pro in August 2009, actually at the tournament that I won. So this is a great opportunity for me.  
  
  Q. And you're playing an LPGA event. Are you surprised to be in this position right now?  
 JEAN CHAU: I won't say I'm surprised, but I'm really excited. I'm excited that my game is coming together at the right time and at the best tournament for me. So I am actually more excited than I'm surprised.  
  
  Q. So you've been playing a few events coming here in the States?  
 JEAN CHAU: Yeah. I played a couple event. I played at the LPGA Q-School. I didn't have good luck there. I broke my driver actually just before the round. So I had three drivers for four rounds. But it was not too bad. I had a good experience.  
 Yeah, I played a couple mini tours in the States.  
  
  Q. How was the crowd support out there today?  
 JEAN CHAU: Oh, they were great. It came in kind of waves where we came back to the clubhouse and got more. And when we got out towards the heat I guess it kind of got less. So the crowd was awesome. They just kept cheering "Malaysia Boleh." So it just kept -- it gave a lot of confidence booster, yeah.  
  
  Q. It must be great confidence now when you go back to the States. Are you going to the two Q-Schools, the Futures Tour as well as the LPGA Tour?  
 JEAN CHAU: Yeah. I'm doing both. LPGA is already done actually the first two rounds and I didn't make it. But I'm going right back. I'm headed back on Wednesday straight for Q-School.  
  
  Q. Q-School for --  
 JEAN CHAU: For Futures Tour, yeah, Duramed FUTURES Tour, yeah.   
  
  Q. Which is slightly easier?  
 JEAN CHAU: It's slightly easier, because they allow more players there's more spots for full exempt to play. I won't say it's a lot easier. I won't be too confident, but this is a great confidence booster out here.  
  
  Q. How many rounds before you get into the FUTURES Tour and how many get into the FUTURES Tour?  
 JEAN CHAU: It's four rounds on three different courses, and I think if I'm not mistaken top 90 gets full exempt, but top 275, yeah, should get to register as a member. So if they don't have enough players, the other players can apply and they might allow you to play.  
  
  Q. Your performance here, when you go back to the States, does it give you new confidence that you get everything right and you can get in?  
 JEAN CHAU: Yeah. If you get everything right, you can get in. It showed me right here if everything is going well, I can be as good as any other player out here. So I just gotta build my confidence and play more and get more learning experience and just be more -- get used to playing in this kind of situation in tournaments.  
  
  Q. I was reading a story just now that your coach didn't want you to go to Q-School yet. What did you say to him?  
 JEAN CHAU: Well, the thing is I've had him for about eight years. Everything he's said that would happen has happened. He got my college scholarship in the States.   
 So after I've been away for him for four years, and I knew my swing was going a little off. So he wanted to help me rebuild it, get the whole thing going and then go play. So yeah.  
  
  Q. Financially does it cost a lot to go to Q-School, FUTURES Tour?  
 JEAN CHAU: Financially, yeah, I'm actually on Mom and Dad's sponsorship right now.  
  
  Q. How much does it cost for the Q-School?  
 JEAN CHAU: For LPGA Q-School the entrance fee is five grand. That doesn't include lodging or caddy. So everything I would say cost me this past LPGA Q-School probably cost me about eight grand U.S. Dollars. The Duramed FUTURES is not as bad, and I'm staying with a friend, so that's not as bad.   
 THE MODERATOR: Is there any more questions about today's round? Perfect. Well, congratulations. Good luck tomorrow. Malaysia Boleh!   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT