MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No Microphone.)
SANDY LYLE:   An eagle at 13 and I made it to about four feet at 12, I missed that.   I was close somewhere else and I missed that.   It was just a little bit of this a little bit of that and throw a few 3‑puttS in, it was really like another roller coaster day.   73 is still tidy around here at the age of 56. 

Q.   How valuable is that to know the course so well that you're still contending?
SANDY LYLE:   Well, instantly you just know, when certain winds are blowing or you're in a certain position off the tee, you've only got one kind of option.   You know your odds and that's where the experience comes in. 
I think if you're a bit like a bull fighter out here, the young guns, you could get burned pretty badly. 
So you got to be patient and play for the areas where you know you can ‑‑ sometimes a bogey is good.   If you try to force the play, you could end up making double.   But that's always the option in your mind when you're playing this course. 

Q.   You get some crystal. 
SANDY LYLE:   I just asked them if they're still doing any crystal, because it's been a long time since I got any. 

Q.   How much do you think you've got over the last 100 rounds?
SANDY LYLE:   Not many.   Not really, no.   Most of the ones were actually made on number 8, would you believe it?   Which is not a hole you would expect to make eagle on.   I would say roughly say maybe eight. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
SANDY LYLE:   Well, I use them. 
(Laughter.)

Q.   Can somebody in their 50s win this.   Miguel and Freddie under par. 
SANDY LYLE:   If Miguel plays like he did yesterday, if he plays like that and just putters around and does his thing‑‑ I don't know how he's going to handle the last five or six holes, when he realizes that he's actually got a good position. 
It's all very well getting up there.   But when you find out, well, it's me, I'm the one that could maybe pull it off here, it could be ‑‑ I've even said Langer, if he has a great last eight or nine holes, a couple of birdies and an eagle somewhere, and in the clubhouse at five, that would be a hell of a good number to chase. 

Q.   These guys are still coming here and beating up the young ones, talk about how good the Champions Tour is. 
SANDY LYLE:   A lot of those people are maybe knocking on the door out there at 50.   It's no gravy train, I can tell you.   I've been out there five years now and had not that many top‑10s.   Playing reasonable golf, but the other boys are playing better golf right now. 

Q.   Is it getting harder with every round you play around here, do you feel?
SANDY LYLE:   For me it doesn't get any easier physically as well.   Around here I still feel about 56, but down there I'm about 80 at the moment.   My legs are sort of hanging in there, that's when it gets to you is your physical, mental side that can fade away, if you're not careful.   You got to have lots of liquids out there.   I felt okay today. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
SANDY LYLE:   I think you come off a high here.   The conditions are so good and it encourages you to hit good shots.   You got good fairways to play off and you can be quite precise because of the good fairways. 
The greens are always challenging and you got to focus every time, every putt, doesn't matter if it's a foot putt or a 10‑foot putt, you got to focus. 
I had a couple of silly little 3‑putts and you're thinking, I'm putting for birdie, and all of a sudden, whoops, I've got a 6‑footer return. 
It's tough.   Every hole you got to just be very patient. 

Q.   How much are you enjoying your role sort of mentoring younger players, like helping Gallacher?   How much do you get out of that, seeing him play well here?
SANDY LYLE:   Well, if it helps, if he takes it on board.   I don't think you can relay a ‑‑ you can relay a few little things, but you can't do everything just in one practice round together. 
He might come through next year and say, well, what about this or what about that.   Then I would say, well, yeah, do that.   Fine.   Then you move on. 
Just one week here, it takes a lot of information to feed into that brain of his and then you'll go home and maybe digest it.   Or if he comes back next year, he'll be better prepared for it.

Q.   Paul McGinley has been here this week, has he spoken to you at all?
SANDY LYLE:   No.   I have not even seen him. 

Q.   As you were saying yesterday, Paul is starting to see the Europeans, no question, coming into form. 
SANDY LYLE:   Yeah, it's nice to be around a tournament like this.   Westwood won't be over in Europe that much.   He'll keep an eye on what they're doing and then I suppose they will keep those players in the picture of where they are as far as partners and things.   Is it Poulter, is it Westwood, I mean even Thomas Bjorn has a good chance of being in there this year. 

Q.   (No Microphone.)
SANDY LYLE:   I doubt it.   I'm out of touch a lot of times with the European golf and what McGinley does on that, on sort of a weekly basis.   He's made no effort to say, if you're thinking you're a possible, just don't worry about it.   I got my other ideas, and that's fine, but he hasn't done that. 
So, I don't blame him, but it's up to him, if he wants some help, then I'll be there. 

Q.   The Ryder Cup in Scotland, how does that make you feel?
SANDY LYLE:   When you're close by, I think I'll still be in the corporate side of it.   Playing a few rounds of golf somewhere else and entertaining somebody and maybe passing on the life experiences of Ryder Cups.   There's always something.   I've been tending to let it slide past you.   Especially when you only live about 40 miles away. 

Q.   There aren't many golfers more popular in Scotland than Tom Watson, but you might be one of them.   Would you maybe play a role in that?
SANDY LYLE:   Yeah, you never know.   Tom will have a lot of support out there.   He's well liked in Scotland and he likes to be a captain in Scotland because of that. 
McGinley has got a handful to handle.   Especially he's got to choose his words really, really well when it comes to speeches and getting the crowd going, because Tom's an old hand at the game. 

Q.   Good to get the Scottish support going there?
SANDY LYLE:   I think that would be good for that part of it, too.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT