MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2014
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Q.   Tough day today?  
SANDY LYLE:   Not for Jimenez.   He played very well.   He deserved everything.   He didn't make many mistakes out there.   Maybe the 12th might have been his only hole where he had a bit of a hiccup and left the ball in the bunker after the first bunker shot.   But still managed to make four out of it.  
My game was, there was some opportunities, the putter went a bit sour on me.   The opening holes could have easily been two or three birdies in the first three holes and didn't make any of them.   
The first hole I had an 8‑footer uphill and kind of watched his putt from the other side of the hole and when it got to the hole it broke left.   So I was expecting mine might break left when it got near the hole, but it went the other way.   
That's just the way it is.   It's disappointing.   I drove the ball poorly in places and I was always facing a tall wall to get over.  
   
 Q.   Miguel seems a laid back sort, it looks like he's just breezing around the course, not affected by his position on the board.   
SANDY LYLE:   No, he started off solidly and he drove the ball extremely well.   Every hole he's been on the fairway somewhere.   He never put himself under pressure.   
He hit the irons well, he's made some putts, and he's got some mojo going and he just kept doing it and he finished strong.   Those are the little things that are so helpful.   So he's in good shape now after today.   
   
 Q.   Is there some sort of pleasure in making the cut here?  
SANDY LYLE:   Always.   
   
 Q.   Is it more about being sort of ‑‑  
SANDY LYLE:   No, I enjoy making the cut, but I would enjoy it more if I could just start to do something that, when the pressure's off a little bit and relax and just play for what it is.   
Today would have been an ideal day to maybe go around in 69 or 70, that was in the cards.   I mean, I was level after 6, so it wasn't like I had a disastrous start.   It was just gradually bleeding all the way around.   
Poor drive at 11.   That doesn't give you a chance to go at the green.   
Then a poor drive at a few other places.   I was always having to play out.   
I hit a bad drive down 10 and I was way in the trees, but I managed to make four out of it.  
   
 Q.   16 looked frustrating for you, too.   
SANDY LYLE:   16, there's been three bogeys there.   The 11th hole I've been 4‑over for that hole.   Then the 16th, normally I play okay, and I played that in 3‑over so far.   So there's seven shots just in those two damn holes, all the rest have not been too bad.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
SANDY LYLE:   I don't know.   My 100th round is it?   Well I didn't even realize that it was my 100th.   I think to anybody's criteria at the end of a golfing career to have played over a hundred rounds of golf at the Masters, there's got to be something you can tell your grandchildren in time to come.   There's probably still a few more rounds to go yet.   
   
 Q.   What has been the key to playing the 13th hole?  
SANDY LYLE:   Depends on the pin position, but I think if you get the tee shot away.   I think that the guys now that hit strong 3‑woods and they can still pump it up around the corner and don't even have to hit driver.   There's a little bit better chance of getting through the trees as well.   Left, there's obviously a lot of limbs missing, so there is that option, too.   If you want to keep it tighter around the left side, you might get away with it.   
But a lot of them are playing wide.   It's just getting the tee shot away, that really sets up the hole.   
I'm not really hitting, I'm not even trying to go for the green in two.   Maybe yesterday I got one around the corner with a 3‑wood that was reachable with a 5‑iron, but I'm just generally just playing that out to the side and try to make my birdie the old fashioned way a little bit, rather than firing in 3‑irons and stuff like that.   I think the days of that are gone.   
   
 Q.   What would be a nice reward tomorrow?  
SANDY LYLE:   Shoot 66.   I think that would be a nice way to do it.   But I might shoot 76 around here, that seems to be kind of the par for me.   But I feel like the game has been a little tidier than it has been in the previous years.   
So I'm hopeful that, if the putter just behaves itself a little bit better tomorrow, we can get around in under par.   That would be great.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT