MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You must be quite satisfied with that, are you, Sandy?  
SANDY LYLE:   Making a birdie at the 18th yesterday, end of the day, really, because I was starting to leak a little bit, bogey on 16 and bogey on 17.   I'm getting a little worried about the cut level and stuff, so I need to get to four or five anyway.   Wind is picking up now, so I think four should make it.  
  
 Q.   Generally conditions today?  
SANDY LYLE:   The greens were a lot drier, a lot faster than I thought for the early morning players.   And the wind is picking up now, because yesterday I played in the afternoon and the greens were getting very, very crusty.  
The pins are tucked away a little bit, so I think the scoring will stay right about yesterday's scores.   
   
 Q.   People might be thinking that perhaps you're getting a bit too long in the tooth to be able to be a competitor around here.   But it looks as though if they think that they're wrong?  
SANDY LYLE:   You never know in this game.   I played with Nicklaus at age of 46 and he won his last Masters, and they all kind of crossed him off as getting a bit too old and not competitive.   And then he wins the Masters at age 46.   
I'm a bit older than that now.   But I'm strong enough and I'm long enough off the tee and as long as the putter behaves itself, I'm not going to say we'll threaten the leaders possibly, but a good finish in the top‑20 would be very nice.  
  
 Q.   Just give us a little word on Stephen Gallacher, he's playing in his first Masters this week, isn't he, at the age of 40.   But he seems to be equipping himself very well?  
SANDY LYLE:   He did exceptionally well yesterday.   Probably a little annoyed after being 3‑under at one stage not to finish it off in maybe 4 or 5.   But he's still under after his 18 holes, and I don't know how he's doing today.  
  
 Q.   Quite well.   
SANDY LYLE:   Well, good.   I've given him words of encouragement, may the force be with you, and that kind of thing.   I think he's doing good.   He's tails up, and he's getting used to the big time stuff.   And this week I think he's learning the Masters very quickly.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT