THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 28, 2013
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's your verdict on the week?   
SANDY LYLE:   I would have taken it at the start of the week, even finishing below par, I didn't see the way the game was in shape at the time, I would be struggling shooting many over par at Muirfield last week.   Then a chance to maybe creep into the top three if I had just finished a little better.  
   
 Q.   And the final day was down to the last, which makes it a little more disappointing.   
SANDY LYLE:   Yeah, I had a good start.   I hit the ball pretty solidly for most of the nine holes and didn't hole any great long putts, so 2‑under after nine, which is probably pretty steady.   And I was hoping to maybe get the odd one at 10, possibly 11.   
I went bogey at 11 and bogeyed 13 again, so that's like three bogeys and a double on that hole so far, the 13th.   Not been a good hole for me.   
Other than that, everything else was good.   My only real probably bad shot the whole week was the second shot to 17, trying to hit a low, stinger‑type shot and pulled the nuts on it and lost ball on the left side.   
So that left a rather bitter taste in the mouth, because I thought, if I can make a birdie, go to 6, you know, 6‑under would look really good at the end of the day.  
   
 Q.   But there are so many positives this week, anyway, aren't there.   
SANDY LYLE:   I'm happy with that.   As I said, I'd have taken that the start of the week.   I'm very pleased to finish under par.   Most times I've played this course, it's usually kicked my butt many times, and I have records of walking off the course here before, I was about 11‑over after 9 and I got some rather annoying injury in the right‑hand.   So that was it.   
   
 Q.   Nice to pay back one on this course, isn't it?   
SANDY LYLE:   A little bit back on it, yes.   
   
 Q.   What's next?   You've got a another Senior Tour event?  
SANDY LYLE:   Senior Tour.   Tomorrow I'm up in Muirfield again, Austerfield, a Pro‑Am, two days there, a charity, stuff like that, for Ian Woosnam and DJ Russell, and that's more of a fun thing, and two days of fun golf and probably a little bit of liquid, as well, at the same time.   And then I'm going to have a few weeks off and then I'll be in Seattle in about three weeks' time.  
   
 Q.   It does seem like golf is fun again.   
SANDY LYLE:   It's getting better, yeah, I must admit, my golf game is a lot tidier now, and hopefully I can reap the rewards for it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT