THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2013
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SANDY LYLE:   There was some good golf being played, and only one kind of real skanky shot, and got very, very lucky with finding the ball to the right.   I blocked it miles, right with a 3‑wood, in unchartered territory.   Lucky enough the ball spotter saw where the ball landed but we couldn't find it for about three or four minutes and after we found it, also ‑‑ inaudible ‑‑ tread on it at the same time, so that allowed me to get a drop.   Got a drop and it kept going where the ball‑‑ inaudible‑‑ I got the ball out on to the fairway, which was an absolute blessing because where it was not very nice. 
So I could thank the ball finder‑‑ inaudible‑‑ I got it out of the fairway and I had about 120‑odd yards for the third shot, so I didn't get very close, but I made a five out of it, ran my first putt past thinking I would do a Seve Ballesteros and make an unbelievable par, and forgot that it was downhill and ran eight‑foot past and holed a return for a five. 
Then I played pretty solid golf most of the way.   Chances at the next for birdie.   2‑under is nice.   I hit a good drive on 10, which is important.   Birdied the ninth, hit it to about ten feet with a 2‑iron and gap wedge or something. 

Q.   You must feel in good shape going into the weekend. 
SANDY LYLE:   Well, yeah.   I'm always kind of dubious what can happen on this golf course.   You just never know, plugged ball in the bunker face or whatever.   But I was very pleased with the way the golf went.   The things I've been working on are just sort of starting to come through and having a bit more confidence week‑by‑week. 

Q.   Did you see Bernhard's double‑hit?
SANDY LYLE:   Yeah, I was just on the green watching him play the shot.   It was very unlucky.   He had to play kind of a flop shot or whatever but it just came out shot and you just hear a little dink.   Very unfortunate.   It happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT