MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 14, 2013
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SANDY LYLE:   I don't suppose you want to know about my score.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Heck of a day today, wasn't it?  
SANDY LYLE:   Yeah, I was a little tidier.   I got off to a good solid start.   Making a birdie at the first that was obviously encouragement.   I just played a little tighter.   Yesterday just got rough on the back nine.   Got out of control with the putts as well.   I couldn't seem to focus on the shots, I was just not getting into them.   
But today was just tidier round.   I made a few putts.   I had two and a half shanks on the way around as well.   
   
 Q.   What does it mean to play so well on the 25th anniversary?  
SANDY LYLE:   Well, I think that I would have been very happy to make the cut at the start of the week.   But when I played on Sunday, I went round with six birdies and three bogeys, so I was 3‑under.   So that sort of gave me a little bit of hope.   To be right there and feel you played half decently and you shot 78, 80, you think it's going to be a long week, somehow.   
And I didn't get off to a great start on the first round, a couple over after about four.   But just went on my way and played some decent tee shots and got a few putts in and eventually got back to level par.   And then I dropped one at 17.   So that was encouraging.   
Then the good solid round the second round.   
The third day, just didn't work out.   Wrong side of the pin a few times and it gets messy real quick.  
   
 Q.   What's your assessment of Guan's achievement this week and what you saw of his game today?  
SANDY LYLE:   Well, it was very interesting to see.   He hits the ball quite a reasonable distance at the moment and remember he's only 14.   In another three years you'll probably see a huge difference in his length.   
He seems to have a good game.   Short game is very good.   That's a nice thing to have.   There's a lot of people that can play really well, but they haven't got a very good short game and they're relying on the long game to carry them through.   But he seems very tidy at the short game and he's putting very tidy as well.   
He's on the right track right now and I suppose there's a lot of good golfers in China, they're all good swingers.   He's not a textbook, perfect swing right now.   But I'm sure that will be ironed out in the next few years.  
   
 Q.   Did he appreciate who he was playing with today?  
SANDY LYLE:   I think he had a good knowledge on what was going on, yeah.   I think it was exciting for him and I think he was quite surprised how well the old farts can play.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Was there a shot or two he played out there that surprised you?  
SANDY LYLE:   He seemed to be very useful with the rescue clubs, the middle sort of 23 to 24 degree ones.   He was pretty accurate with those.   
I was expecting off the first hole he was going to hit a laser‑like tee shot and he knocked it nearly on the ninth fairway.   So that surprised me.   He was a little messy with a few early drives.   Maybe it was nerves, I don't know.   But he ended up doing okay in the end.   
But I don't think there was a shot really I could say, wow, that was showing some signs of maturity.   But I think the way he's going right now progress wise is, if he can stay untouched with too many teachers and just play his natural game, I think he'll be in good shape.   
   
 Q.   Looking at what Tom Watson did at age 59, do you think you have another Major title in you?  
SANDY LYLE:   Well I think what Tom did really keeps us all going.   To really realize that you're only one week off 60 years old and still almost pulled off the steal of the century of winning The Open Championship.   
We all wish he had won it in the end, but it gives a lot of hope, yes.   Certainly gives me hope knowing that he's done that, then there's no reason that if I stay reasonably healthy‑‑ I don't have any injuries right now, back injuries‑‑ that I could do the same thing.   But it's going to be a tall order.   Especially on a course like this, where you got to walk four days and I feel it at the end of the day, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Are you back to the old farts next week?  
SANDY LYLE:   Yes, I'm back to the old farts next week, yeah, on a frigging long golf course as well at Sugarloaf, yeah.   
   
 Q.   How do you adjust your game going into that tournament after playing as well as you did here?  
SANDY LYLE:   Oh, it will be good.   It's encouraging.   Very encouraging.   I'm looking forward to next week.   I haven't been at Sugarloaf for a good few years.   And then I'm going to play with Woosie in Savannah in the team event just the week after that in Savannah.  
   
 Q.   What's your memories of Sugarloaf?  
SANDY LYLE:   Quite big undulating fast greens is what I can remember.   A lot of trees.   And quite long as well.   Mickelson made it look very easy that one year and won by about 12 or 15 shots, so it is possible if you get the driver working well you can really take the course to pieces.   
   
 Q.   If you are playing with Guan in five years from now do you think your game will be in pretty good shape?  
SANDY LYLE:   I think it will be in pretty good shape.   No, I'll be playing my second shots first as well, probably.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SANDY LYLE:   No, I'm too long in the tooth to be affected by that sort of thing.   No, I was quite interested to see what he had to offer and he was a nice pleasant guy, we had a good little chit chat on the way around and that.   So he was asking about if I'm playing much golf and I said, yeah, I'm playing on the Champions Tour and stuff.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SANDY LYLE:   Most holes, yeah.   Most holes I was up past him, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Anything interesting happen with the penalty?   Was that mentioned?  
SANDY LYLE:   No.   There was quite a lot of marshals around watching what we were doing though.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   Was that one of your boys there?  
SANDY LYLE:   My younger son, yeah.   Quinton.   Yeah.   He's 18.   All six foot seven of him.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT