MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Are you pleased with the two rounds?  
SANDY LYLE:   Any time you make the cut at Augusta you're really happy.   And 2‑over after four yesterday wasn't looking very good and I wasn't really striking the ball, so I just hung in and hung in and then there was some life at the end and I got back to level par.   
And then I 3‑putted 17, so I was a little bit miffed finishing 1‑over.   
Today I had a good start for a change.   I got a couple under very early on.   And then I lost a few on the way round.   And then I made a nice birdie at 9.   
I shaved the hole so many times down the stretch here, I was just crawling around there.   I've been all over the hole at 18 for birdie as well.   It could have easily been three or four under.   But I'll be very happy playing tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   The conditions were different, weren't they?  
SANDY LYLE:   Well, they're getting dry and there's a strong breeze in places now and then.   At least with the wind it's sort of the downwind the last couple of holes.   So if one hits a good drive you've got no more than like a sand wedge or an 8‑iron into the 18th this time.   So for the big hitters it's playing quite short.   
   
 Q.   You look at the leaderboard and you're not too far away, you're right in the picture too.   
SANDY LYLE:   Oh, I'll cross that bridge when I get near it.   I'm giving myself a chance to obviously play tomorrow, so I'm highly delighted with that.   That's what I came out to do was to do that.   And even now I'm right there to get back in there.   
   
 Q.   Talk about, Fred Couples last year was tied for first after two rounds, there's been Norman at an Open Championship, Watson at an Open Championship, but it always seems like because you guys don't play a lot of 72 hole events it's hard to put four rounds together.   Is that fair?  
SANDY LYLE:   Well, yes and no in some ways.   I know that the Champions Tour we have three‑round tournaments, but at the end of the day when you've had pro‑ams and practice rounds, sometimes pro‑ams and a practice round, you've got quite a lot of rounds of golf at the end of the week.   And you're traveling to the next week and it's the same sort of scenario.   
So I'm usually still getting five rounds of golf at least.   And most of the time walking too.   So it is okay.   
   
 Q.   What have you been most pleased with?   What aspect of your game?  
SANDY LYLE:   Just being able to keep the ball in play a little better.   I've been ‑‑ I played better today as far as my quality of the iron play and the ball was a little bit more interested in going at the target.  
Yesterday I just couldn't get it quite right.   I was a little off.   They were all hit good, but they weren't hit very accurately.   
But the putter that I used this week, I brought the putter out from the PGA last year back out and it's been doing its bit.   It's settled my nerves a little bit and I'm making those 4‑footers and the odd 10‑footer for birdie now and then.   If you can do thatyou'll be okay.   I had about 30 putts today, so that was good around here.  
   
 Q.   So Black Swan is still working?  
SANDY LYLE:   It hasn't turned into an ugly duckling yet, has it.  
   
 Q.   What kind of putter is it?  
SANDY LYLE:   Big.   It stands up on its own.  
   
 Q.   Is that the one that Matt Every used last year at Sony?  
SANDY LYLE:   Might have been.   Yeah.   Yeah.   I used it at the PGA last year and I got lots of grief from it.   But I finished fourth with it, so I was very happy with it.   
   
 Q.   It looks like ‑‑  
SANDY LYLE:   It could be anything.   A frying pan, whatever.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you're going to make the cut, but there are, there's a time when, as you get older around here that you have to make the decision to stop playing.   Have you thought about that at all and what that might require of you before you make that decision?  
SANDY LYLE:   I think that if you are shooting sort of 78 and80s I'll probably rethink what's going on.   At the moment I'm feeling good, I still have a good two or three years left at the moment.   My body's still in ‑‑ I'm not suffering with anything at the moment.   I don't have any knee operations or back operations.   So I'm really good that way.   
I'm going to keep going.   I mean, four, five years max for me.   It's hard on the old body to get around this course, it's so up‑and‑down and hilly.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT