MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   73 isn't a bad result, do you think?  
SANDY LYLE:   Yeah, even though I 3‑putted the 17th.   That was rather annoying.   So I got it back to level and I got on the green at 17 and then whacked it past 10 or 12 feet.   So it was a lack of concentration, or whatever you want to call it, but all in all I think that the shaky start, the drive at the first, got out of position only by a couple of yards and then it comes out a bit off course.   And then the chip shot ran off the green down the side there.   
So it was looking like a double bogey again on the first, but got away with a bogey, but generally the driving was, could have been better.   My irons were very poor.   So I need to go and see if I can iron out some kinks.  
   
 Q.   Tell us about this putter.   A strange looking thing, is it not?  
SANDY LYLE:   It is strange.   It wouldn't win a beauty contest, I know that.   But I used it at the PGA last year, PGA Seniors and I had a very, very good putting week; and on greens very similar to this as far as undulations and speed as well.   
So I kind of thought, it's been sitting in the closet for quite awhile, and I kind of thought, well, I've been putting terrible this year, so far on the Seniors TOUR, and I'm just kind of averaging 34, 33, 35, very, very seldom below 30 putts.   So I said, well, I'll just bring it out and see.   
So I went out here on Sunday with a guest and I went around with six birdies and 26 putts.   So I thought, hmm, that's going to be in the bag again, I think.   
And I putted quite well today.   I have been, I felt very comfortable with the putter.   It does the job pretty good.   
   
 Q.   You haven't used it this year though?  
SANDY LYLE:   Not this year, no.   It was used last year for a few months and then it went kind of cold on me.   
   
 Q.   Where did you get it from?  
SANDY LYLE:   It's in Florida.   
   
 Q.   Did you pay for it?  
SANDY LYLE:   No.   
(Laughter.)   It's called a Black Swan.   
   
 Q.   Is it heavy?  
SANDY LYLE:   It's heavier than most, I think.   But not heavy, heavy.   It's made of aircraft alloy and it looks big and cumbersome, but it's not.   It's got a very good MOI, which is the moment of inertia and all this sort of high tech stuff and it rolls the ball very good.   And I have a board back at home inside the house which has got velvet on it, and you can putt over four or five feet and you can see what the ball's doing.   
If you got a ball, a club or a putter like that, with too much loft on it, the thing, the ball will start to bounce and you can see it on the board.   With my putter it just rolls it right off the bat straight off.   There's no deviation or any little thing that makes it go whoosh.   And it's also good for amateurs, because you can set it up and you can actually set it up on its own.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
SANDY LYLE:   I saw my coach back on the TPC with it in the bag when I was at the Hall of Fame thing that I was at last year.   We went out to play some holes and I looked at it in the bag and I thought, my God, what's that.   And then all this spiel came out.   So I ended up not long after getting one myself.   
So far I felt a lot more comfortable putting on these extremely fast greens and it's keeping the hands nice and calm and the mind calm.   And if it does that and I make putts ‑‑ I didn't make any extremely long putts today, but holing out the little 3‑footers, 6‑footers, for pars, that all helps keep up.   
I made one at the 8th that was about eight feet.   The other one it was about six feet at the 15th.   And then I horseshoed out at 13 from about 10‑12 feet, the back of the hole.   I went right around literally more than a 360.   A 375 or 380.   I couldn't believe it.   I was going down hill so slow and to have enough energy to go in the hole, right around, and come out the other side, it was just a miracle.   
   
 Q.   What time did you get up this morning?  
SANDY LYLE:   5:30.   Yes.   Sometimes it can work against you out here though, because it could be extremely cold, in the 40s or 50s.   That's happened before.   And then later on the midday, 1 o'clock, it's 75 or whatever else it is, like it is now.   But it was still pretty warm this morning, so it was okay.   But it can work against you a few times.   
   
 Q.   But was it more just the gesture of it all, did it seem like an early start for you?  
SANDY LYLE:   I was thinking about getting that ball down the fairway at the first, really.  
   
 Q.   Is that the first time you've teed up first?  
SANDY LYLE:   Possibly, yeah.   Yeah.   Possibly.   In the Masters, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Just as you finished the young Chinese guy was teeing off.   
SANDY LYLE:   Oh, was he.   Interesting to see how he does.   I'll watch with interest.   
   
 Q.   He split the fairway at the first.   Can you remember back to 14 years of age?  
SANDY LYLE:   14 years of age?   Well, I was playing quite a lot of golf back at 14.   A 3 handicap, 2 handicap.   
   
 Q.   Was it an extra feeling of anticipation this year just because it is the silver jubilee or anything?  
SANDY LYLE:   No, you always think that, "I'm going to do better the next year."   It gets tougher and tougher, unfortunately.   And when you finish around here, 18 holes, it's a pretty tough old battle.   
And I haven't really played anywhere near my best golf today as far as the quality of the iron shots.   Even though I hit it quite close at the 18th, it was still a mishit, it didn't go the line I was intending to go on.   But it ended up finishing about 10‑12 feet.   Just off the green there.   But it was from a nasty little lie.   So I'll work it out.   But so far I haven't blown myself out of it.   Making the cut's been my main objective.   73's a nice start.   
   
 Q.   Whose the caddie this week?  
SANDY LYLE:   Butch Wilhelm.   He's been caddieing for me since last year.   He's actually a PGA pro, a teaching pro as well.   Worked with Tim Simpson for about four years.   He was somewhere up in Georgia for about 15 years at a club job.   But he was just, he likes, he's never been to Scotland, last year was the first time he came over.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT