MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2010
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. That round should put a smile on your face. 
 SANDY LYLE: The ball's blowing around quite a bit on the greens in certain places. But I played pretty solid, no complaints. I just started to make a couple putts down the stretch. I hadn't really holed anything all day until the last couple. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 SANDY LYLE: Exactly. That's what you're up against out there every week. There's Couples, there's Watson, they are all shooting 8-, 10-under after two rounds and you got a lot of catching up to do in only three rounds. The standards are very high. We're not playing a course as hard as this, but the scoring is still very, very good. 

 Q. Would you have taken a 69 if they offered it to you on the first tee?
 SANDY LYLE: Oh, by far. This is the first time in quite a few years I had a below par one. And I had a lot of opportunities. 
 I had an eagle chance on No. 2 from about eight feet and I left the ball hanging over the hole, two thirds of the ball hanging over. I don't know how it even stayed there. But it did. 
 I had an 8-footer at 15 for an eagle and I missed. The wind caught it and it blew it up the hill. 
 And then 13 I hit a massive drive around the corner, had a 7-iron to the green and I missed it on the left side, which is the worst place you could miss it.

 Q. What did you hit into 17?
 SANDY LYLE: 7-iron. The drive was a bit lucky, it faded to the right and it came right back out to the fairway. I had like 186. 

 Q. The putt?
 SANDY LYLE: 20 feet.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 SANDY LYLE: About 10 feet.

 Q. What did you hit in?
 SANDY LYLE: 3-wood, 9-iron. I was almost in my usual bunker on the left-hand side, actually in the grass between the two bunkers.

 Q. Great finish wasn't it?
 SANDY LYLE: Yeah, it was a good finish.

 Q. Was there still a touch of nerves standing on the first tee even though you've done this so many times before?
 SANDY LYLE: No, there was still a little bit. 

 Q. You haven't played much golf this year have you?
 SANDY LYLE: About four events. Two on the European Tour, and then on the Champions Tour. I played the AT&T, I played Cap Cana about two weeks ago now.

 Q. What is it about Augusta that brings out the best in your golf?
 SANDY LYLE: Oh, it's the whole tournament. You try to get your game in shape for it. I know what's needed and I know what part needs to be strengthened. But I've been hitting the ball well. And I'm happy about that. And driving the ball nicely out of the fairways better than I have in years and years with plenty of power. And the direction is good, and there's a lot of good shots that I hit out there. And that was about as good as I probably could have done.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 SANDY LYLE: Yeah, I think so. I can't read them very well. 

 Q. How far was the birdie putt on 8? How far?
 SANDY LYLE: Oh, I don't remember. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT