MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Were you trying to impress your son today?
 SANDY LYLE: That's the first time he's seen the first nine holes. We haven't played any practice rounds in the first nine, so we're trying to pace ourselves a little bit rather than playing several rounds of golf. Yeah, I showed him around a little bit and showed him some of the areas. 
 I played pretty tidy golf, can't complain, made some putts to save pars, which is good. A little disappointed obviously with the finish. To be at 3-under standing on the 15th tee when you've got a shot to get on the green. I did hit a good shot but I hit it too well. I got a bit of a draw going and it was a decision between was it going to be a hooking 3-iron or was it going to be a hooking rescue, and a rescue club is fairly potent. 
 I thought, well, the back of the green is about 250 or 260 or something, so I thought, I'll hit a rescue club. I hit it so well it went over the green, and it knew it was in the water with a chip shot, as well. I nearly hit the hole with the chip shot coming back. It was a 6 in the end, and it all went a bit haywire in the end.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SANDY LYLE: I have turned the corner a few weeks ago with the golf shots and the swings. I was happy with the way I was hitting the ball. I wasn't hitting it so crooked the way I have the past couple years. I'm also playing with very little pain in my fingers, which is nice. This is due to the better positions I'm looking at on the hitting area.

 Q. What were your expectations this morning?
 SANDY LYLE: I felt the way I've been playing -- I've played a lot of golf recently. I thought if I started the first few holes pretty well, no sort of pull-hooks and good solid hits, I'd be all right. I got off to a pretty good start, birdie at the 5th hole and a birdie on the 3rd, so I thought, hmm, it's time to start enjoying it a little bit.
 I had no choice at the 7th, I've got no shot. Then I played a good recovery shot with my third one and got it to about four feet of the hole but I missed the putt, so that was the only kind of bogey on that nine.
 But not bad. I played 10 pretty good, made a pretty good chip and putt at 10. But then I hit a 6-iron on the 11th to about 10 feet and hit a lovely 9-iron to about 12 feet at the 12th and made the putt for birdie.

 Q. What were your thoughts there?
 SANDY LYLE: I'm thinking now I'm 3-under and I've got two par-5s on the back coming up. I thought we could finish the day at 4- or 5-under, just keep the head and positioning. I think obviously the 15th stopped the momentum. I played the 14th pretty good. 
 13th I fell asleep on my third shot and I didn't position -- I only had 65 or 70 yards to the pin and I fell asleep on the damn thing, just completely misjudged it. I had to do well to make 5 in the end.
 14 was another good chance for birdie.
 So all in all, a good drive up 18. I got it fading around the tree and I got it on line with the pin and I had the distance pretty much spot on. I had to hit it four feet in the air and that thing would be not far from the pin, and then all of a sudden it comes back eight, nine, ten yards. It was a very fierce putt.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SANDY LYLE: I'm feeling all right in that respect, yeah. I've had lots of golf in the last sort of four or five weeks with the Champions Tour and that. Energy-wise I'm okay at the moment. Birdies keep you going really good (laughter). 

 Q. The course has changed over the years. (Inaudible.)
 SANDY LYLE: I think there's always a few occasions in the round when you look at some of the fresh players that play and who take certain shots on, and you're thinking, mm, no. You'll find later on that -- it does help to have that bit of knowledge in the background, yeah. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SANDY LYLE: No, I was only back 225 to the front, and that's downhill, as well, and a little bit of breeze, so it would have been only playing 215, 210, and I've got to play a hook anyway. I thought if it doesn't hook enough I'm going to be in the bunker. It's a safe enough shot from where it was. If the pin had been way on the left-hand side I'd have had no shot because it was too much of a hook shot to bring it in. 
 But from where my tee shot was I had a definite chance. I chose between the 3-iron and the rescue, and I chose the rescue and it flew a million miles. That's the way it goes. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SANDY LYLE: I did 71 last year on the last round, so that's two good scores in a row. I enjoyed this probably more than the 71 last year because I'm actually hitting the ball where I want to hit it now, instead of relying on luck now and then.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 SANDY LYLE: Anytime you're at first round level par you're not going to blow yourself out of the tournament there. You're even better at 3-under, but I'll take that as an opening score.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT