DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
March 3, 2005
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What happened on your ninth, the 18th?
SANDY LYLE:  Bit of a malfunction. It wasn't that bad of a tee shot, just didn't realize it was such a short carry, 270 or something.  I hit it pretty poor strike-wise, but I didn't think it went anywhere near the corner as far as going over.  But it carried five yards too far. Had to go back. Nowhere to drop the ball. Couldn't even get the two club lengths. I even tried to go back into the television compound and get the angle where the green was.  It was just hopeless, I couldn't get a spot that I could get a 5-iron to it and get it down the fairway and I could make 6.

Other than that, I was playing the par 5s quite well today and then annoying to make a double-bogey on the par 5.  Very good start and four straight birdies.
Q.  Distance on the putts?
SANDY LYLE:  10th hole I had about a 10-footer,  next hole 8-iron tee shot to same distance.  Got it in there to 12 feet and made that one.  The par five, made it in two and that was about 40 feet, that was pretty straightforward.

So it was looking quite good, I thought this was  a good start, the par 5s come up, the 17th and 18th hole, I've got two chances of making a birdie over two holes and make the turn at 5-under and bang, that was a bit of kick in the teeth making 7 at the 18th.

Hit what I thought was a good drive down the first hole and must have hit one of the trees, and went further in, so I was in the edge of the trees but I had a good lie.  And it was low, overhanging branches, so I had no way to get the ball onto the green, because of the height factor. Too low and in the bunker and too high I was in the branches. I was handcuffed.  I knocked it forward and take a chance of landing it on the green but landed it in the bunker and wasn't to be and got up and down from there.

The next hole I drove the ball in the greenside bunker, 350 odd yard on came out to five feet and I missed for birdie which was annoying.  The par 5 I had about a 15-footer for an eagle and hit in the hole and came out the side.  It could have changed the whole thing round, it just was so close.  Played pretty well, most of the time and putted steady, which is good.  It was a pleasing start, but it would have been nice to be 4- or 5-under like another Lyle is. I thought it was my son out there. It could well be as my eldest is.
Q. Does he play?

Not professionally but I will get him out over the next few weeks prior to the Masters.
Q.  What have you got between now and then?
SANDY LYLE:  Nothing as far as I know right now. Going back to America after next week.
Q. Thoughts on your old Shropshire sparring partner?

First Shropshire player to be named as Captain of the Ryder Cup team. I don't think there is much chance for me there now. I have offered to fill in some divots or something like that. He is stronger pals with D J Russell and Peter Baker and he'll choose a vice captain from Ireland and don't think my name represents Ireland so I think I'm out but you never know. You never know.
Q. Are you hitting the ball further now?

Probably. The ball makes a difference and the lighter equipment and the balance.
Q. Just you said 270 was short?

I was trying to hit a hook and got underneath it and it just went straight up in the air and had n o fizz about it. Thought  not a bad time to hit that kind of shot but the first bounce was way up in the air. First impression was it his a sprinkler head but it wasn't, just a hard bank. Then hopped up and landed on a bush. There was no way of getting the ball out. It was about ten feet in.
Q.  Was it a disappointment for you when you heard it was Woosie and Faldo?
SANDY LYLE:  Well, this is the first time they called for two captains, and that's basically saying, well, that's it, for me anyway.  A little disappointing.  I don't know why they chose two captains in one foul swoop.  I guess there is a lot of water under the bridge from there onwards, I just don't know.  Very strange, I don't know why they have done that.

Never done it before so I don't know why they did it this time.  I can't see the reason for it.
Q.  How did you hear?
SANDY LYLE:  I gather they tried to get in touch with me last night or the night before to let me know but I wasn't available for some reason even though I was in my room but I spoke with George O'Grady yesterday morning in the Pro-Am. He wanted me to hear first rather then hear through the press which was nice.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT