THE 147TH OPEN
July 20, 2018
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Not a bad way to finish.
SANDY LYLE: A great way to finish the last three holes, 1-under.  For 20 years, I don't believe I finished below par on the last three holes.
Other than that, it's been a nice experience.  In 40-odd plus years I've played in the tournament, and to have the pleasure of doing The Opening tee shot was quite special to me.  It shows that they care, and they appreciate what I've done over the years.
Q. What was it like walking up there on the fairway to the green there?  You were getting a lot of adulation from the crowd.
SANDY LYLE: Yeah, I was very light-footed, I know that.  I was on cloud nine walking down the 18th.  It's quite a spectacular view to come down there.
Not an easy second shot from the right-hand side of the fairway.  There's not much to land the ball on.  Coming in from the right-hand side like I was, it was quite a challenge.  But to make birdie was extra special.
Q. Was it a tear in the eye at the end, though?
SANDY LYLE: I've still got wet tissue here.  No, I managed to stay away from crying, but definitely a lump in the throat, yeah.  Definitely.
Q. Was it difficult to live with the fact that you're probably not coming back?
SANDY LYLE: Well, I might be able to tell you next week because, if I win next week, then I'll be back again.  More punishment.  No, you want to leave the gates open.  There's always a chance I could play my way back into the tournament.  I will try.  I won't totally, totally give up.
In theory, it seems like it's the last Open for me as far as turning back.  I'll have to work to get back in again.  I have no regrets.  I've had a good run.  I'd like to beat Gary Player one time.  He had the 65 rule.  I didn't have that to play with.
Q. Would you try and qualify?
SANDY LYLE: If it's up here in Scotland and I'm living up here, I might just give it a run in the next few years.  That would be it.
Q. Maybe just one Scot gets through to the weekend.  We don't know yet, obviously.  Does it concern you a bit that it's not punching its weight as it used to?
SANDY LYLE: I think I've said many times before, it just goes in waves.  We could have a lull for a couple years or seven years and nothing happens, and then all of a sudden, out of the blue, whatever, it's four or five players just appear, and they're all hungry and ready to improve themselves.  It can happen.  It might take another ten years.  Who knows?
Yeah, it is disappointing being in Scotland, and it's so well received in Scotland, The Open Championship.  It would be nice if a few of the Scots would challenge a bit more.
Q. Sandy, is your swing still basically the swing that your dad taught you all those decades ago?
SANDY LYLE: It's probably about two feet shorter right now.  Yes, it is.  It's very similar.  I haven't been able to break the habit of swinging more conventional or bigger shoulder turn or more flexibility.  It's just the way I'm built.  The John Dalys of this world can swing a club, and their left arm is almost touching the right ear on the backswing.  I can get to about here, and that's about it.  But the swing is somewhere about here at the moment.  It's disappointing that it's getting a little short on long golf courses.
But that's really my own swing.
Q. What do you think he would say about this long run that you've had in the game?
SANDY LYLE: My dad?
Q. Yes.
SANDY LYLE: My dad, he passed away in '96.  So I mean, he had a chance to see The Open, and obviously he was there at the Masters when I won.  So he was a very happy man.  He said, "If I go tomorrow, I'd be very happy."  So, hey, he would have been very impressed that I've kept going for so long.
Q. What else sort of sticks in your mind?  Are there just a couple of things that you reflect on on The Open front?
SANDY LYLE: Well, on The Open front, are you talking about the changes or what I've been --
Q. No, just your personal experiences.
SANDY LYLE: My personal experiences, yeah, there's been frustration moments.  There's been tears.  Mostly frustration the last sort of 15, 20 years, which is a bit annoying because I know I can play better than I have done.  To miss cuts in The Opens, it's never a nice feeling in any pro golfer.  And as you get older, you know it's going to happen more often, and I think it did happen more often than I was used to.
But you've just got to keep a stiff upper lip and prepare yourself for the next Open Championship coming along.  I've managed to keep it going for 40-odd years.  It's frustrating, but I'm quite happy.
Q. That's the bad thing.  What about the good things?  Is there anything that really sort of kept you going?  Sort of just a moment there that typifies what it means to play in The Open?
SANDY LYLE: Well, playing St. Andrews, obviously, is always an emotional time around there.  It's always a great privilege to play St. Andrews.  It's the home of golf and things like that.  But every Open has got its own feels and touches and the stories to tell as they go on.  There's many stories of this place.  We know van de Velde and stuff like that.
So my story is really, I've had times I've walked off the golf course because of injury, which is very frustrating, and other times you win it or you're contending in the top ten.  But that's what's going to happen.  It's never a straightforward run in this game.  Mickelson had his moments where he probably could have broken a few clubs or whatever, but he's had very good endings in The Open Championship.
No, I'm excited it's coming to an end, but there's always a chance for next week to perform well if I can make sure Mr. Reiner is not playing very well, put something in his water, I'd be very happy.
Q. Is your replica trophy still in a place in the house?
SANDY LYLE: Yeah, there's lots of medals, really, from players medals.  I've got lots of those.  A lot of badges.  Probably weigh about ten pounds.
Q. Do you think it's going to take a few days for this kind of moment to sink in?
SANDY LYLE: I don't think it will take a few days, no.  I've accepted that this is going to be, most likely, the last one, but television is so good these days.  You can see so much more.  (Laughter).
Q. Have the R&A done anything to mark this at all, other than giving you The Opening tee shot?
SANDY LYLE: The Opening tee shot is good.  Other than that, are there more surprises on the way?  I don't know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT