MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2018
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. That was a huge 4 there at the last. It was a pretty difficult lie.   
SANDY LYLE: Yeah, it was a downhill lie, so it wasn't that easy. But I had a crunch an 8‑iron, I hit it like 6‑iron height, if that, even 5‑iron height, with a draw, landing about a yard short of the green and it just couldn't go forward at all. I thought it was perfect.   
   
 Q. (No Microphone.)  
SANDY LYLE: I had a 6‑footer there and I had a 6‑footer at 17 as well and a good 20‑footer at 16 and so on and so on, so a strong finish.  
   
 Q. It's given you a chance.   
SANDY LYLE: You never know. The winds, as we see right now, are starting to get a little breezy, greens are really fast, I think as fast as I've seen them for awhile. So just depends what the leaders do. They will hang in for nine or 10 holes and then they will be waiting for the par‑5s and then all of a sudden they will go to 6‑ and 7‑under, I would think. So I don't know, it's at least a chance anyway.   
   
 Q. If you're here for the weekend or not, has the way you played this week sort of changed your mind about coming back again?  
SANDY LYLE: Well, I had a little tweak with the swing months ago and I was starting to sort of hit the ball a lot better, so there was some signs of a lot better ball striking, so I was really hoping to do at least some 72s or 73s out there, without too much trouble. If I putted well and just drove the ball ‑‑ the driver's cost me a little bit today, I just got off line on a few drives and it's hard work to recover.   
   
 Q. The way you played the last six holes that can only give you encouragement, because it could have got away from you, could have been a big score.   
SANDY LYLE: Especially when it's the end of the, the second of two rounds of golf and 60 years old, it's not that easy to stay fresh and hit the driver a long way up hills and all that kind of thing ‑‑ and keep it straight. But, yeah, it was pretty good. It was promising. It gives me an encouragement for next year to try to come back.  
   
 Q. A lot of the amateurs over the years, the young Doug you played with, is he an impressive prospect?  
SANDY LYLE: He seemed to sparkle on a few holes where he makes an eagle or a chip‑in or something like that. Yeah, he's got some promising stuff. I think that if he possibly could have had maybe a local caddie this week, somebody that knows the greens, it could have been even better. A few greens he kind of just misread just from lack of knowledge, probably. Other than that, good stuff.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT