THE 146TH OPEN
July 21, 2017
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SANDY LYLE: Yeah, not easy.  But played nicely.  I didn't hit it close, but it is really tough out there.  I was hitting some long clubs in.  And you just have to hit to the middle of the green, which I just tried to do.  I tried to keep myself in it with 16, 17, 18 to play, two par-5s.   
So, yeah, I've still got a chance going down 17 but missed the putt.  And that was it.  I knew it was never going to six.  It was likely to be 5-over.  But the rain stops now, there's no wind forecast for the rest of the evening.  The guys out there could have the best of the weather quite easily.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
SANDY LYLE: No, pretty good.  It was important not to play poorly this week, and I don't feel as though I played poorly.  Just picking the wind was tough because it's been -- it was fairly strong, but it was actually moving around quite a bit.  It was left to right and then it was up and then into.  I stood on 10 and 11 with wedges, just picking the wrong wind.   
It's tough.  I'm discouraged with myself.  I feel though my game is in reasonable shape going into next week.  I have a weekend off, which is not that bad a thing, really.  Give me time to practise a little bit at home.  And get ready for the next one.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
SANDY LYLE: I don't know it that well.  I've been down there, I've only had a couple of practise rounds over the last few months.  I'll be playing it Tuesday.  And will do the same Wednesday.  I'm just going to rest on Wednesday, just practise and chill out and get ready for Thursday.  But it's not a course I know really well.  But defending, you've got to go there and hope to do well.  It's The Open, so it's always on a different course the following year.  I just go there and do my best.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
SANDY LYLE: No, I don't feel under any pressure as defending champion.  It's just another tournament, to be honest.  So I'll treat it exactly as I did last year, go into it, do my best, and I'll see where that takes me.  It's a tough field.  There's some world-class senior players playing.  So I'm under no illusions.  I played great last year, and I'll have to play great again this year.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
SANDY LYLE: Of course, that's over this week.  At least I've come into this tournament on the back of playing a lot of regular golf.  It's tough to come upon a course like this when you haven't been playing regularly.  But, yeah, I'm looking forward to next week.  And obviously my time in America has held me in good stead.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT