THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Sandy Lyle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SANDY LYLE: Well, I finished with a six.  That 1-iron off the tee didn't make the carry, so lost the ball in the rough.  But, no, it was better.  I played a bit better.  I found a bit more mojo going, but two lost balls, which doesn't help.  Other than that, that was slightly better.
Q. Which one?
SANDY LYLE: One of the first of the par-5s I blurted it out to the right with the second shot, and I don't think anybody even saw it.  It was just 20 yards or so right.
Q. Very deep stuff?
SANDY LYLE: Very deep stuff, yes.  We never found it.
Q. (Inaudible) when did you find out he wasn't playing?
SANDY LYLE: When we got ready to tee off.  He was at the golf course.  I did see him at the range.  He broke his wrist only about three weeks ago, so he'd had surgery and had it screwed together, I suppose.  And they thought well, you can still manage to play because the screws are in there.  He had some elbow work done at the same time.  Doing all these silly boyish, is it snowboarding or something that he does, and he must have come up with a bit of a cropper somewhere and jarred his elbow and did his wrist in.  So I was surprised he even played really.
Q. (Inaudible).
SANDY LYLE: Starting off it seemed horrendous for the first four or five holes.  It was just rain, rain, rain, rain, rain and not too much wind.  So if you drive the ball okay, it was all right.  It was better than I expected.
Q. It was better than yesterday?
SANDY LYLE: Well, it made the last nine holes a little easier knowing you can get a drive at the 11th hole or 10th hole and only have medium clubs in.  A big difference from into the wind.
Q. (Inaudible).
SANDY LYLE: I'm really just trying to get some clubs and stuff getting more ready for next week at Carnoustie.  So I've got that in mind.  But The Open for me was over after yesterday.  But, no, I can drive the ball.  I drove the ball pretty good most of the day, so that's always a nice positive to come away from the week.
Q. (Inaudible).
SANDY LYLE: I don't enjoy shooting 85.  But no, the overall experience.  My years are very numbered now.   I've only got about two left and that will be the end.
Q. With that in mind (Inaudible).  Do you have to be a little bit careful, perhaps, to accept these invites?
SANDY LYLE: Well, it used to be 65.  It used to be 65 players and that was the age limit.  So it's been reduced to 60.  Tom Watson almost winning it a week off 60 at Turnberry.  So there's always that to keep in mind.  Some of these players can play very well.
Q. So you enjoy coming and playing in this?
SANDY LYLE: Yeah, really, when I saw the course and the way it was playing and the way I was generally playing, I wasn't putting typically great.  But I was driving the ball with the Ping driver I've been using the last two or three months and starting to get some mojo on that.  You can drive the ball well, but the last nine or ten holes yesterday I drove everything on the fairway, and that's half the battle.  But my second shots were lousy.  I was mistiming them or putting them on the wrong side of the green or the bunker where the pin was.  So it could have easily been level par the last nine holes yet I shot like 6, 7 over.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT