PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE VS CLEMSON
December 29, 2016
Malik Hooker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I follow you on Instagram and social media.  I don't know if it's something you're comfortable talking about, I notice most times when you post a picture you post an RIP message.  Is that something you're comfortable to talk about?  What's the backstory?  
MALIK HOOKER: One of my cousins this year, middle this year, May 2nd, was killed.  He was shot.  And he ended up passing away.  I feel like I dedicated the majority of the season to what he has done.   
And my other cousin, he was killed January 2nd, it will be eight years coming up next year.  So that's just something I feel like -- I dedicate most of the stuff I do, something I just think about.  I take into consideration anything I do, whether I'm out and I'm having fun with friends or whatever it may be, I feel like that's what I'm dedicating everything for.   
If it wasn't for them -- it's always motivating them as they pass away, I wouldn't be here.  They tell me keep working, keep doing what you're doing.   
 Q.  What's it been like to grow up with that as you're going through this transformation?  
MALIK HOOKER: It molded me into the person I am today, like I said, because not a lot of people can deal with something like that keep focused.  Most of the times people deal with a death, two deaths similar to us, somebody close to me like that, they tend to be able to get off track and feel like they have nothing left to fight for.   
But I use that as motivation for myself.   
 Q.  What's it been like to have the season and to be able to honor them?  
MALIK HOOKER: It's just a humbling thing.  Especially for me to be able to do it the way I'm doing.  I just give credit to God mostly because I couldn't I couldn't do anything without him, because I feel like they're out there with me, too.   
I've got my cousin tattooed on my arm and everything.  I give credit to them all.  I couldn't be as strong as I am being the person I am.   
 Q.  What's the name of the cousin?  
MALIK HOOKER: Victor Ward (phonetic).   
 Q.  What was the following on Instagram when you started making plays?  
MALIK HOOKER: I think at beginning of the season I had maybe 10,000.  Now I got 35,000.  (Indiscernible).   
 Q.  How come you score every time you catch--  
MALIK HOOKER: I give credit to the line, the "D" line and the linebackers.  I feel like they turn (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Clemson and Ohio State have only played two times.  What did you know about Clemson -- I guess before all this craziness got started?  
MALIK HOOKER: Me personally I didn't know too much.  I was still a young guy.  I was just focused on what the task was at hand.  Really didn't pay any attention to any other teams outside of the conference.  I was worried about just finishing the season strong and trying to getting (indiscernible) ready for the season.   
 Q.  What do you know about them now?  Obviously you've seen a little bit of Deshaun Watson now?  
MALIK HOOKER: I know they're a very athletic team.  They played with each other for a few years.  They've got a lot of guys that can make a lot of plays and a lot of big-time names.  I feel like we have to go out there, stick to what we're used to and go out there and play as one.   
 Q.  When you watch Watson, I know from what I've heard you guys (indiscernible) you played 750 snaps of Clemson offense?  
MALIK HOOKER: Yeah.   
 Q.  What was the hardest thing?  
MALIK HOOKER: Probably just knowing when he's going to feel like he has to run the ball and stuff like that.  The majority of the time I thought he felt like he's dedicated to just throwing the ball.  But I feel like he's capable of running and throwing the ball.  He's that gifted.  He's a good quarterback, one of the better players in college football.  I definitely give credit to him.  He had a great year.  Feel like we have to go out there and just be able to do our job.   
I feel like our "D" line will play effective because we have one of the better D lines in college football and our linebackers as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT