AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2016
Sam Groth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. MURRAY/S. Groth   
6-0, 6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Looked like the court was going to swallow you up there in some stages of that match.  Did you get something out of it for yourself in the end?  
SAM GROTH: I thought I managed to fight back in the second set.  Not ideal conditions for me.  Had a bad serving day against the No. 2 player in the world.  Probably not going to cut it.   
 Q.  I think it was noted that it was your first time on Rod Laver.  How was it before the match and obviously early on?  
SAM GROTH: Felt all right going out there until I started hitting a lot, and then I was pretty nervous.  My serve was sort of out.  You know, like I said, if I don't serve well against a guy -- I know I have to have probably one of my best serving days against -- you know, I'm in a bit of trouble.   
There's a few nerves.  I wasn't making first serves.  Wasn't making first volleys.  He's too good of a player not to do that against.  Not a guy you want to get behind against either.   
 Q.  Was it the occasion?  
SAM GROTH: Playing on center court at home, against the No. 2 player, knowing I had to play well, probably put a bit much pressure on myself knowing how well I had to play.  I don't know.   
 Q.  Bit of a scare in the last game there.  How is the ankle?  
SAM GROTH: It's all right.  If I hadn't a rolled it I might've come back, who knows.   
 Q.  So you'll be able to play doubles?  
SAM GROTH: Yeah, yeah, yeah.  It was just a little tweak there.  Nothing too bad.  I managed to hit two winners in that game, one off a dropshot.  I still moved all right.  It will be fine.   
 Q.  What happened in the second set?  
SAM GROTH: I think I held serve, got a game on the board, released a few nerves.  You know, probably just started playing the way I wanted to play.  I played a few better service games and started moving better.   
Made a few more balls from the back.  I guess just tried to compete.  I think that's one of my big strengths, you know, is the way I compete.  I just tried to compete there.  Got myself back into position.  Then managed play a pretty bad service game again to serve the set.   
 Q.  Did you practice with Andy this morning?  
SAM GROTH: Same court, but we didn't hit together.  I never hit on Rod Laver before.  Trying to get a hit out there this morning.  He had the same time, so...   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT