AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2016
Sam Groth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. GROTH/A. Mannarino   
7-6, 6-4, 3-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Nice win.  How is the foot feeling?  
SAM GROTH: Yeah, foot felt good.  Three, four sets.  Had to change my shoes because I was sliding around and they were a bit wet.  It's nice and warm out there.   
No, foot fell good.  It's pulled up well afterwards, so that's a bonus.   
 Q.  Good to get some court time, as well?  
SAM GROTH: Good to get a win.  Never mind how long I was out there, but it's definitely good to get a win.  First win since US Open, so it's good to get the first one off my back.   
 Q.  Serve worked, 27 aces.  There was some nice execution in those backhand volleys and the slices.  Was that pleasing for you as well?  
SAM GROTH: Yeah.  I thought I returned well today, and I thought it was definitely better than the last couple of weeks.  Obviously I came in wanting matches, and the last couple weeks didn't play as well as I wanted to.   
The end goal was always to come here and be playing well by the time I got to Melbourne.  I think it's a credit to me and a credit to my team that I was able to come out and beat a guy who is still ranked much above me.  He's still a quality player.  I think he was probably the favorite going into the match, as well.   
 Q.  You've lost a few tiebreaks in Sydney and Brisbane.  How big was it to win the first one today?  
SAM GROTH: Yeah, I also know Adrian as well, and he get a little bit down on himself.  To be I think 6-3 down and to be able to dig it out 8-6, it was huge, especially knowing it's going to be a hot day.   
It's not easy conditions when it's hot in Melbourne.  Over five sets, you don't want to go down a set if it's possible, especially with a player like that that plays a lot on confidence.   
 Q.  Knowing that, when you're 6-3 down you can really keep that in your head going, Well, here is a bloke who potentially can drop his head if I stay on him.  
SAM GROTH: Yeah, I mean, I didn't really think about it.  I was kind of surprised he serve/volleyed.  I don't know if he played serve/volley once in the match and he did it at 6-3.  Then I played a good point in the next point, forehand winner, and then somehow eked out the rest -- I think two big serves after that, and then a good return.   
I thought I played five really good points.   
 Q.  No secret what's being spoken about in the tennis world.  Any thoughts with regards to all these allegations?  
SAM GROTH: Yeah, I mean, I'm not really privy what's happened.  Obviously I have heard what's happening.  Yeah, I don't know anything about it.   
You know, I think I don't think there is anyplace for it in our sport, but that's about it.   
 Q.  Thanasi has mentioned that he's been approached over social media, things like that?  
SAM GROTH: I didn't even know that until you just said it.  I don't know.   
 Q.  You played a lot of challenger and lower level as well as the ATP.  Have you ever been approached or ever...  
SAM GROTH: No, like I said, I don't know anything about it.  I like sort of getting my nose cleaned.  I don't get involved in anything I don't need to.  No idea.  Nothing, no.   
 Q.  What do you make of your next match?  
SAM GROTH: Yeah, I mean, it's tough.  No. 2 seed and 2 in the world.  He returns well, but I'll try to come up with a game plan and give it my best shot.  I will have the home crowd with me and I've got nothing to lose.  Be nice if his wife went into labor overnight, but...   
I might be just cheering for that one.  But, no, no, I've got nothing to lose.  He's going to be tough.  He's a quality player.  He's where he is for a reason.  I look forward to getting out there.   
 Q.  What can work against Andy?  
SAM GROTH: Hopefully I will serve well and it doesn't come back.  I'm going to take it to him.  For me, doesn't really change too much.  I'm going to serve big and try to get forward and play aggressively, use my -- everything I do normally.   
For me, I play my game style and that's it.  I'll have little things I know you don't have to work out about him, where he likes to return and where he likes to serve.  But in the end I am going to do what I do, and if it's good enough, it's good enough.  If not, the other guy is too good, then too good.   
 Q.  Watching Lleyton tonight?  
SAM GROTH: Yeah, from the comfort of my hotel room, though.  Playing doubles with Lleyton here.  He's a good mate of mine, but so is Ducks.  Shared a coach with Ducks for the last 12 months, until the end of last year.   
Yeah, it's a tough position for both those guys to be in.  I think Lleyton has helped Ducks out a lot over time and Ducks has looked up to Lleyton for so long.   
But, no, I will watch it from the comfort of my hotel room, and whoever wins, wins.   
 Q.  Anything that stands out in terms of Lleyton's legacy to the game?  
SAM GROTH: He's a legend, isn't he?  I think because it happened so early in his career we forget about how great he was.  I mean, the guy was winning Grand Slams as a 20-year-old.  It just doesn't happen.  It would be like Nick coming out and winning the Australian Open.  It's an unbelievable effort.   
He is a guy I've looked up to for a long time.  Been lucky enough to be able to play Davis Cup with him.  Also lucky I get to play with him in his last-ever tournament.  It's something I won't forget.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT