NL DIVISION SERIES: ROCKIES v PHILLIES
October 6, 2007
Mark Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Mark, could you talk about the difficulty of preparing for a start that might not happen and what will happen if your team loses tonight? 
 MARK REDMAN:  I think you have to take it as another game that you have to prepare for, like during the regular season be ready to win and if it comes that day, you're ready. 

 Q.  Is there anything you can compare this to?  Any situation like this in the past for you? 
 MARK REDMAN:  Well, I've won the World Series in '03 with the Marlins, so I went through all the playoffs that year.  It's sort of -- it's familiarity with this team what we had to go through with the Marlins, we were the Wild Card winner and it came down to the end.  Didn't come down to a playoff game but we were the underdogs going through and I think the last weekend of our home stand prepared us needing the win that weekend just to -- and hoping for San Diego to lose the game to get in the playoff game. 
 I think the fans -- the sell-out crowd here helped us out so I think that prepared us for this year anyway. 

 Q.  Mark, you've been on a number of teams, and can you talk about the make-up of this team and what makes this group of guys unique in your mind? 
 MARK REDMAN:  You know, I said from day one when I got here that this team is young and full of energy, sort of like the '03 Marlins.  We were young and weren't expected to win, we weren't supposed to be there in some people's eyes and it's the same sense with this team.  Young team, full of energy, not pressing, having fun doing it and believing in what they can do.  It makes it a lot of fun and from my standpoint coming in late, this team welcomed me with open arms and makes you feel like you've been with the team the whole year. 

 Q.  You faced the Phillies with the Braves early in the year and then again with the Rockies in relief.  What did you feel like you did different and what led to so much success the second time you saw them? 
 MARK REDMAN:  I think early on I was battling with some injuries there in May.  I was ready to pitch, and sort of like a second chance the next time I got to face them.  I didn't get the start -- I wanted the start but I didn't get the start but I had to make the best of it.  You have to go out and do what you have to do to create opportunities once the opportunity is given to you. 
 So I didn't do anything differently, except, you know, attack the strike zone, get ahead of hitters, and I also had a pretty good cushion after the fourth inning and whatnot and it makes it easier to pitch when you have runs on your side of the board. 

 Q.  Can you just describe what this season's been like for you?  You were in the minors, you bounced around, and now you're up here maybe pitching tomorrow in a major game.  Can you describe the ride a little bit? 
 MARK REDMAN:  There is one word that you can describe it with and that's humbling.  You definitely don't want to take things for granted.  I played in the big leagues since '99, for eight seasons and we had a hiccup this year and, you know, just what I've been through to get back, I went from team to team to team and I've asked for my release -- actually I had outs on all these contracts just to see if the future looks promising with these clubs and they never did.  So I had about two weeks left of the season and I came on with the Rockies and they were pushing, they needed some pitching, so I took that shot, took that opportunity to try to create an opportunity to come up here.  It's all worked out pretty good. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Mark. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT