MLB WORLD SERIES: MARLINS v YANKEES
October 18, 2003
Mark Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Just tell us how you feel about starting your first World Series game here at Yankee Stadium. 
 
MARK REDMAN:  It's a childhood dream that anyone would dream to imagine.  That's what you work hard for, a position to be in, an opportunity, an opportunity to pitch in Yankee Stadium and the World Series.  
 
Q.  What do you remember about your start here in July of 2002?  You had a shutout going into the ninth inning and lost the Game 2-1?
 
MARK REDMAN:  Thanks (laughter) for bringing that one up.  If we would have stopped at eight innings, it would have been a great game (smiling).  Hopefully, I'll be in the situation of pitching a shutout, but we have a great closer that would close that game up for me.  
 
Q.  I'm sure you've never been asked this question during the postseason.  Could you talk a little bit about the impact that Pudge has not just had on the ballclub, but on the pitching staff?
 
MARK REDMAN:  He's your veteran leader, you know.  He handles his pitching staff real well.  Especially the younger guys on the team.  Bringing his experience from the American League helps a lot in the National League, different style pitching over there.  I think it helps benefit us and he's still learning the hitters in the National League as well as I am.  But we've done a pretty good job.  He'll come out there.  He's a thinker.  He's like a pitcher behind the plate.  He really tries to think what we're thinking and think what the batter's thinking and work it to our advantage.  
 
Q.  Does it surprise you that you ended up with a couple different teams?  The Twins built themselves with young pitching.  The Tigers obviously are in desperate need of pitching.  How do you end up with the Marlins?
 
MARK REDMAN:  They needed pitching, I guess (smiling).  They needed a pitcher from the left side.  When I pitched against them last year, I think I impressed them with what I could do with not overpowering stuff, just hitting my locations and change speeds and eye level.  I thought, you know, they thought that I could fit in real well between the guys that throw 97 miles an hour.  
 
Q.  Except for Beckett, the cycle has been in the postseason that each starter has been shelled by the second time around, as in your case.  You seem to do better.  Is there an explanation that your pitching staff may have for that? 
 
MARK REDMAN:  Yeah, since I got, what you said, "shelled," last game, I got that over with, hopefully (laughter).  That's really all I can say, is it's a new team, new look, they haven't seen me all year.  They've seen me in the past, but you just have to make your pitches.  You can't get too emotional about it.  You just have to go out there and try, try to take it as a regular season game, do what you know you could do and what got you here.  
 
Q.  You hear so much about the mystique of Yankee Stadium and all that.  What you guys have gone through, winning at Wrigley, winning at Pac Bell, does that "mystique" stuff even sink into your head?  Do you think about it at all?
 
MARK REDMAN:  The only thing we think about is this team will never give up, no matter who we play, who's pitching, what the circumstances might be, if we're down, if we're up.  This team's always gonna be fighting hard until that last out's made.  
 
Q.  Do you think the vast American League experience that Pudge has and the experience guys like you and Ugy have will be a little bit more to your advantage than say another National League team that might not have any knowledge of these guys?
 
MARK REDMAN:  As a pitcher, it's gonna benefit me knowing that I pitched against these guys and I know their line-up fairly well.  It's gonna benefit our whole club since Pudge is gonna be in every game, behind that plate calling.  He's been in the Big Leagues for a while, 12 years.  He's seen enough of the Yankees to know how they're gonna take the approach and everything.  He's gonna take the bull by the horns, when I said that, it's the pitching staff, and really lead us to victory.  
 
Q.  When you guys picked up Urbina in July, how much of a psychological boost was that, knowing the organization was gonna be a buyer, at the trade deadline and try to improve the team, as opposed to a seller?
 
MARK REDMAN:  It's nice that we got him in early July until waiting till that deadline and possibly having him pass.  Knowing that, that the team, the organization made a commitment early by not trading Mike Lowell and in picking up Urbina and getting him in that rotation in the bullpen with us, really helped us out a lot.  
 
Q.  For those people who have never seen you pitch before, is there any guy a little bit older than yourself that you equate to?  Tom Glavine or somebody else that pitches like you, has the same style? 
 
MARK REDMAN:  Well, since I'm 6'6, they say I'm a bigger Jamie Moyer, big Tom Glavine.  Those are compliments, I think.  Those guys have been around and had a lot of success doing it.  If I could, you know, do the same thing, what they do, that's only a compliment to me.  Hopefully, I could go out there and do my best and the same success that they had.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT