NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: MARLINS v CUBS
October 9, 2003
Mark Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Mark, were you surprised at all the runs out in Wrigley, and do you feel like once you get it back here it will be the pitchers duel, the lowest scoring games predicted in the series?
 
MARK REDMAN: I don't know.  You have to make the pitches and hope the runs are minimal that you give up and plentiful from your hitters. 
 
Q.  You guys were able to set up your rotation exactly the way you want it.  Beckett Game  1, Penny Game 2, just like in the Giants series.  Do you feel added pressure tomorrow?
 
MARK REDMAN: We split the series up in Chicago.  I think that's exactly what we wanted to do, like we did in San Francisco.  I don't think it's a personal thing anymore in the playoffs, okay, this one pitcher, Brad Penny, got to win this or Josh Beckett got to win.  It's not about getting the individual win, it's about winning the ballgame, and we did what we wanted to do as a team. 
 
Q.  What has Pudge brought to this team?
 
MARK REDMAN: Leadership.  He's brought that strong influence, leadership and his influence of how to play the game.  He calls a great game.  He takes pride in calling a good game.  And when he's up at the plate he takes the ball the other way.  He has pride of going the other way, taking that base hit and moving runners over. 
 
Q.  Is there anything technical about him what makes him such -- leadership is one thing, but the technical thing of being behind the plate, what he can do?
 
MARK REDMAN: He doesn't just call the pitch, he looks at what the hitter might be doing or the hitter's weakness.  You can see that as the pitcher, standing on the mound.  He'll sit there for a while and think about what he wants to do, what pitch he'll want to do and he'll quickly give you the sign, and that shows you that he's really working behind that plate and thinking and trying to make it easier for you. 
 
Q.  The fact that you're on the other side, can you have appreciation as a pitcher of what Wood and Prior have done at such a young age?
 
MARK REDMAN: They're outstanding pitchers, they've accomplished a lot at such a young age, and there's only a bright future ahead of them. 
 
Q.  I imagine that May and June were kind of interesting times here.  You not only changed managers, but they brought in Dontrelle to put a charge into the city a little bit.  Can you talk about the whole dynamics about how that period in time went?
 
MARK REDMAN: That was a blessing in disguise.  When AJ, myself and Josh Beckett went down, the emergence of Dontrelle came.  Would he ever had had that chance?  Who knows.  God willing he got the chance.  And that's what we needed as a team.  And the city of Miami.  The same with Miguel Cabrera.  He had the opportunity to come up here and excel to the highest.  Those two guys put us where we're at. 
 
Q.  This ballpark is such an awful ballpark from the standpoint of a baseball purists, but it's worked well for you guys, especially over the last few weeks, you've had an amazing record here.  Can you talk about what the atmosphere on the field or what is it that has so spurred you guys on here?
 
MARK REDMAN: I just think it's the fact that any home team plays in their home park they're just going to do well.  I still agree that we need a new ballpark.  I think if we get fans able to have directed seats toward the plate, that would be more comfortable for the fans.  But we're playing in a football stadium.  And it's not baseball.  But it's nice, in these circumstances, to have the 70,000 seats available for our fans to be able to sell it out in these three games, because it's really going to boost our team up this weekend. 
 
Q.  The first two games the Cubs have gotten on the board right away.  Have you guys sensed anything that you're doing to be so aggressive in the first inning, and is there anything you can do to counter that tomorrow?
 
MARK REDMAN: I'm pitching at home, you know, that's the thing.  Fans are on my side tomorrow.  It's tough for Josh and Penny to go out there and settle down right away and get that comfortable feel out there.  They've given up some first inning runs.  But as a pitcher it's nothing to worry about.  Our team all year long has been battling, they never give up.  This team will not give up, until that very last out is given, and we'll come back the next day and play hard again.  So if I could go out there as a pitcher, and I'm speaking for all the starting pitchers, if you can set the tone early it makes it a lot easier for your team, not to fight back.  And just like getting four runs on the board for yourself, it makes it easier to pitch with. 
 
Q.  The 13 home runs at Wrigley Field, this is a ballpark that's not quite as conducive to the long ball.  You've experienced that all season long.
 
MARK REDMAN: Yeah, I think myself and the other starting pitchers on this team pitched accordingly to this field.  You make them hit to the bigger part of the park, and that's out there in centerfield.  And we've got one of the fastest guys in baseball out there running them down.  You have to play accordingly and also you have to see what the wind is doing out here, because any given day the wind can be blowing out or blowing in or swirling.  And same with Chicago, from what I understand.  I haven't gotten to play there much.  But down the line it's 355 (feet), it could play like 255 one day, or 455 if the wind is blowing in.  We didn't have the wind blowing in, but it works both ways. 
 

Q.  How much awareness is there among players at this point regarding Sammy's cork controversy, particularly when he busts one of his bats, what comments are there in the dugout?
 
MARK REDMAN: No comments at all.  There's absolutely no comments.  He made a mistake at that time, and it's not even coming across our mind now.  He's a professional athlete and he won't ever do it again. 
 
Q.  A lot of people have talked about when Jack took over he challenged the team and held people accountable and kind of gave them a more demanding approach.  In your eyes is that the main thing he did or what were some of his other contributions?
 
MARK REDMAN: Yeah.  Yeah, he did come in and challenge us.  The thing that I remember, he came in and said a little dedication, a little hard work you can be right there.  But the way he took that approach to say that was like, look, I don't have to be here.  He wanted to come down here and work hard.  He watched a couple of our games there in April and saw that there was something there and when he had the opportunity to come here and felt truly strong about this situation that we could come from it, as long as we put a little dedication and not give up.  He wanted to make sure this team wouldn't give up, especially early on with all the breakdowns we had with injuries. 
 
Q.  What's going to be your approach with Sammy and how would you compare facing him to facing Barry?
 
MARK REDMAN: They're great hitters.  Minimize mistakes, I guess, unless you've got an idea you can tell me. 
 
Q.  When Michael Tejera threw that pitch in the dugout, tell me where you were and what your reaction was.  Was that good for the team at that point just maybe make it a little bit looser?
 
MARK REDMAN: Yeah, at least that pitch slipped.  I normally trip on the mound.  My mistake is I'll trip and roll around on the mound for a while.  Those things, you know, it's good that something like that happened, it shakes the team up a little bit and gives us a little laughter.  Because no one was really upset.  We were happy that we came out split.  And that sort of like broke the ice a little bit before we jumped on the plane last night, that was good.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT