NL DIVISION SERIES: MARLINS v GIANTS
October 2, 2003
Mark Redman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Have you sent Dave Dombroswki a thank you note for the trade? 

MARK REDMAN:  No, not yet.  It's a good opportunity to be here. 

Q.  Do you have a feeling for what the Tigers went through this year after being part of the franchise? 

MARK REDMAN:  I've been there.  That's all I can say.  I've been there last year.  I went from the lows to the ups.  It's nothing I want to look back on. 

Q.  What's going through your head right now? 

MARK REDMAN:  No pressure.  I mean, this is what, you know, you've always dreamed about.  This is where you want to be, this is what you worked hard for.  You got to take it for the best, be excited about it. 

Q.  After having a lot of crowds of 20,000 or less earlier, they've sold 58,000 tickets.  What is the feeling in the clubhouse about the impact of the crowd here? 

MARK REDMAN:  I think it's going to be to our  benefit, to be honest.  Like you say, we haven't played in front of you too many spectators this year.  Recently, in the past few games, a lot more have been coming out.  I tell you what, it gets loud out there on that field.  It helps to our advantage, especially say when the opposing pitcher's getting in a jam.  You know, he has a 3-1 count, when they start getting loud, it's tough to pitch in those circumstances when you're on the opposing team. 

Q.  Jeff Conine said it gets loud when you get up as high as 29,000, now you're going to have twice that much. 

MARK REDMAN:  Yeah.  I mean, it definitely gets loud, you know, like you said with 29,000.  You know, I can only imagine what it's going to sound like with near 60.  It's going to be outstanding. 

Q.  Why does your team play so well at home? 

MARK REDMAN:  I think really home field advantage, I think playing in this heat down here, you know, we train down in it.  I think it helps to our advantage.  You know, coming from San Francisco, we were freezing there.  What it's going to do to the Giants' players when we play in this 85, 90 degree weather tomorrow, definitely on Saturday when it's a 1:00 game, I think it's going to help to our advantage.  Especially the crowd, too.  You know, the crowd's going to be a part of it.  This is an enclosed stadium and it's going to echo, whereas, you know, in San Francisco, it's open, you got the bay right there, it drowns out a lot of the sound. 

Q.  You've never faced the Giants.  They've had good success against left-handers.  Who do you give the edge to in that kind of a situation? 

MARK REDMAN:  You know, the stronger man, I guess.  You know, you just have to make your pitches.  You know, they still have to swing the bat and hit the ball.  I can't predict anything. 

Q.  Talk about Juan Pierre, Castillo, what they've meant in combination. 

MARK REDMAN:  To have the speed that they have, that's one and two on the team.  You're lucky if you only have one of those guys on a team.  We're fortunate enough to have two in Juan and Luis.  Puts it in the back of a pitcher's mind.  You know, you have to watch out.  You know, they tend to pitch definitely to Pudge.  Might give Pudge a little bit more fast balls, give him something to hit.  You know, they could run into mistakes by paying too much attention to the runner. 

Q.  This will be a change in the pitching styles.  What does that do to hitters?  Does it throw them off? 

MARK REDMAN:  I just need to go out there and do what I've been doing all season:  Just throw strikes. 

Q.  Could you talk about the presence of Barry Bonds? 

MARK REDMAN:  Is he intimidating to you? 

Q.  Sort of. 

MARK REDMAN:  He's just another guy up there with a bat.  That's all I see.  I don't see who it is, what name it is.  It's just another guy up there with a bat. 

Q.  (Question not repeated)? 

MARK REDMAN:  Why not.  He just wants to play just as much as I want to play.  I mean, this is not a time to be intimidated by anyone.  That's the way I look at it.   You know, you worked hard to be here.  He worked hard to be here, as well. 

Q.  If you had the say on it, would you pitch to him in whatever situation? 

MARK REDMAN:  Good thing it's not my say.  You know, I mean, it's not my call.  I do what's told.  You know, I'm a guy that's given the ball, supposed to throw strikes when I'm supposed to throw strikes.  If I need to walk the guy because I'm told to walk the guy, then I'll walk the guy. 

Q.  Left-hander against left-hander, do you think there will be more opportunities to pitch to him? 

MARK REDMAN:  I can't predict that right now. 

Q.  Would you like it to be that way? 

MARK REDMAN:  I can't comment on it.  You know, it's nothing in my power to do so.  You know, that's up to Jack, if he wants to leave the bat in his hands or take it out of his hands. 

Q.  Having not faced them, did you prepare differently watching the last two games to get ready for this? 

MARK REDMAN:  I was having too much fun watching the games.  I mean, I was excited to be in the position we were in.  I was cheering the guys on that were out there playing that day. 

Q.  When was your last post-season experience? 

MARK REDMAN:  Nothing in professional ball.  Probably college '94, '95. 

Q.  (Question not repeated)?

MARK REDMAN:  I played in Oklahoma, yeah.  We played for the championship game, Georgia Tech.

Q.  What happened in that?

MARK REDMAN:  We beat them (laughter).  I didn't patch the championship game.  I pitched Game 1 and the semifinal game.  Things went pretty good. 

Q.  What do you like the most about the makeup of your pitching staff now? 

MARK REDMAN:  Our pitching staff?  I think, you know, we're young.  I think we're growing together.  You know, I might be called the old veteran on the team, but I'm only 29 years old.  In service time, I'm still young, as well.  I'm learning as much as these guys are learning.  I had an opportunity to play for two other teams, with different veteran leadership, meaning, you know, I played while Paul Molitor was sitting on the bench or Kirby Puckett was in the clubhouse or Kirk Gibson was hanging around.  I got to pick these guys' heads.  Why am I naming these great hitters?  Because those are the heads I want to pick.  I'm a pitcher.  I want to know what these hitters are thinking, not another pitcher.  I'd rather know what good hitters think, tend to think, go after those weaknesses that they tell me. 

Q.  With that in mind, what is it like working with Pudge Rodriguez, with all his experience?

MARK REDMAN:  I think it's been a benefit to me anyways.  We both came from the American League.  You know, he's called the same style I've been pitching my career.  Bring it over here in the National League, I think it's a benefit.  My style of pitching.  You know, they say the National League is more of a fast ball, power pitching league, whereas I could throw all three pitches in any part of the count.  I think, you know, Pudge doesn't hesitate to call any of these pitches.  I also shut down the running game.  I do a lot of different looks, not necessarily to keep the guy close, but just give a different look to the hitter, as well.  It gives a chance for Pudge to throw the guy out if needed. 

Q.  When the trade was made, did you have any feelings that you might be sitting in this position here now? 

MARK REDMAN:  I had a lot better opportunity to be in this position.  One thing that sticks out in my mind is last year when I pitched against the Florida Marlins, when I was with Detroit, I was shutting them down pretty good for seven innings.  My pitch count came up on me.  I left the game with a four-run lead.  The Marlins never quit.  They came back and beat our team.  That's a lasting impression when you see a team that gets shut down, never give up.  And, you know, I told myself, "That's the kind of team I would like to play for, a team that will never give up, no matter what the circumstances might be."  Fortunately, I was traded over here and I got to experience that same never-say-die attitude.  This club, this team, is outstanding because they'll never give up no matter the ups or the downs, the injuries, or the three-run, you know, lead that we lost.  This team never gives up. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT