WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 9, 2006
Trent Durrington
Damian Moss
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  What do you think about just the game tonight and the Venezuela pitching today? 
 DAMIAN MOSS:  Oh, Venezuela, it's one of the best places as far as bringing in players to the big leagues.  That and the Dominican Republic.  They rank right up there together. 
 I think we played pretty good tonight, we pitched well.  Our offense was a little off.  But that just goes to show how good their pitching is, too. 
 Q.  What do you think now that you have faced Venezuela and now you have to face Dominican Republic? 
 DAMIAN MOSS:  That's a tough question.  You look at the Dominican lineup and it's nothing about All Stars.  Venezuela is great, too; they have a lot of All Stars.  If I was to say who was to go to the finals, I think right now my favorite right now would probably be the Dominican Republic.  But I think Venezuela's pitching is better. 
 So if they could somehow contain them with their pitching they would be better. 
 Q.  Now that you know that you're not going to advance to the next round, how have you going to face that game? 
 DAMIAN MOSS:  I face it like any other game.  It's a big game.  We want to try to come out of here with a win at least.  Tomorrow's our last chance. 
 Q.  How do you feel about the overall experience? 
 DAMIAN MOSS:  The experience has been great.  The level of play is about as good as it's going to get.  Some of the teams you're facing here, you're not even going to face them in the big leagues.  I mean, you look at the Dominican team, the Venezuela team, it's just nothing but All Stars. 
 So the overall experience has been great. 
 Q.  Talk about today's game and the experience today. 
 TRENT DURRINGTON:  Yeah, no, it was disappointing to not have a win to give us a chance for the Dominican Republic game tomorrow night.  We battled, the pitchers did a hell of a job for us, kept us in the ballgame.  Full credit to their pitching.  They pitched well. 
 Q.  What do you think about the team that will make it to the finals, about the Venezuela team? 
 TRENT DURRINGTON:  Well, I think they just need to play their game.  They got good pitching, good offense.  I think they're a favorite for a reason.  You just look at them one through nine, and they're real solid, basically major league All Stars at some positions.  They just have to come out and swing the bats and pitch like they can.  And if they do, they're going to compete with the Dominicans. 
 And who is going to be in the finals?  Who knows. 
 Q.  Which pitcher is the toughest you've faced so far? 
 TRENT DURRINGTON:  From Venezuela?  Well, I just had that last at-bat with Frankie Rodriguez, I played with Frankie in Anaheim and he's got good stuff.  And that breaking ball he's got is something else. 
 So out of all the others I would have to say that Frankie was the best. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT