WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 7, 2006
Trent Durrington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about the game.   
 TRENT DURRINGTON:  That game was a kick in the backside, that's what that was.   
  Q.  (Inaudible)?   
 TRENT DURRINGTON:  I felt pretty good.  It's disappointing for us though.  They swung the bat well.  They had the momentum the whole game.  They pitched well.  Maybe we could have made better adjustments, but it was just the way the game was tonight.   
  Q.  Jason was in the groove and kind of stayed in it, didn't he?   
 TRENT DURRINGTON:  Yeah.  He did.  We only had one hit off him.  He came out, he was aggressive with his fastball and he was locating his breaking ball.  He got ahead of everybody.  He just had the and he had us where he wanted us, really.   
 Full credit to him.  Just it's the way it turned out.  We just couldn't get anything started.  Seemed like a lot of the time we were 0-2, 1-2.  And then it was just a matter of battling back.   
  Q.  What kind of scouting report did you have on him?   
 TRENT DURRINGTON:  We had a scouting report that pretty much his fastball was fairly straight, he'll keep it away from you.  We thought he had more of a breaking ball, but it was a little bit firmer than what we expected.  It was a decent breaking ball and again, he was locating it.   
  Q.  Do you have any sense of how much people in Australia are interested in this tournament?   
 TRENT DURRINGTON:  Obviously we like baseball to get a little bit more exposure than it does in Australia.  But as far as baseball in Australia, every one in the baseball community is paying attention to what we're doing.  A tournament like this gives a lot more momentum to kids in the junior levels to improve and represent Australia.   
 So it's a big tournament in the baseball community and also such an international stage it gives baseball more exposure in our own sports pages at home.   
 So it's an important tournament for us, and again that's what makes this game frustrating and disappointing.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT