NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 2013
Jordan Oliver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   To my left, Jordan Oliver, 38‑0, the top seed.   Jordan, you were just calling somebody quick on the phone to describe your match in 30 seconds.   How would you describe it?   
JORDAN OLIVER:   Dominant.   Consistent on things I do, going out, scoring a lot of points and putting a lot of points on the board.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us what happened today when you were on the sidelines?   Did you hurt yourself?   Or what happened there?   
JORDAN OLIVER:   Nothing, I got a little stinger, and tried to walk it out, nothing major.  
   
 Q.   Jordan, you said you wished you would having up to this weight.   At what point do you realize that, at Olympic weight of 145?   
JORDAN OLIVER:   Competing over the summer wrestling the bigger guys and Olympic trials last year.   I should have trained, and I believe I could have made 60 kilo, didn't do some things right.   But I believe 66 kilo is a great weight for me and a good fit where I can work on my wrestling and improve on things I need to get better in.   
The trials and the training this summer with London and all that, they really gave me a lot of confidence that I can bump up and wrestle 49, wrestling with the 66 kilos and the bigger guys over the summer.   
So it gave me a lot of motivation and confidence to come into the season and just feel good about my wrestling and enjoy my senior year.   
   
 Q.   Would you say that you're happy with the way that you wrestled at this tournament?   Sometimes I watch you and it doesn't look like you're entirely pleased with your performance even though you've been dominant and effective.   Do you think there is another level you can take your match to in the final?   
JORDAN OLIVER:   Yeah, like you said, I haven't been too happy even though I've won matches.   To be honest, I'm having great matches.   But a lot of good wrestlers, every good wrestler is in this tournament, and they're looking for perfection, and I'm looking for perfection in all my matches.   I'm trying to hit the perfect shot, the perfect set‑up and have everything come and feel perfect which is not happening.   You know, sometimes it never happens, but shooting for perfection you're going to achieve excellence.   
So I believe that my best wrestling is still to come in the finals.   First two matches, to be completely honest, I was mad about my wrestling, wasn't happy with it.   So coming in today, just like every other match, taking it one match at a time, look to go get better every single match, leading up to the finals and hopefully I'm wrestling even better in the finals.   That's the goal.   
   
 Q.   You've got Jason Chamberlain in the finals.   He said you guys wrestled a couple of years ago, not recently.   Both of you guys have done a lot of freestyle, both have been to the Junior World Championships, that sort of thing.   Are you looking forward to competing against him in the finals?   
JORDAN OLIVER:   I'm always looking forward to great competition, you know?   A lot of people ask me, looks fun out there, you're having a good time, whatnot.   You know, I kinda get bummed out when I'm always pinning kids and dominating through the competition.   
Sometimes they're good kids and I'm happy with them wins, but you always train to wrestle the best and you're always looking forward to competition and competing against the best, so Jason Chamberlain is a great wrestler.   I've wrestled him in freestyle once and we have been on World teams together and there is no doubt about it I'm going to get the best of him tomorrow night.   
I'm looking forward to a great match and it's going to be high pace, high intensity, so ready to get out there and let things fly.   
   
 Q.   In the pretournament press conference you were joking that you trained together.   Can you talk about this talented group of wrestlers coming out of this tournament?   So many No. 1 seeds.   How special of a group is this?   
JORDAN OLIVER:   You know, you're surrounded by a bunch of great wrestlers and athletes, all these guys that you mentioned, Ruth, Taylor, Kilgore, all them guys, we have one common goal and that's to be an Olympic champ.   These years right now focusing on this year, all of our goals right now is not only the National Championship, but it's the high trophy, all us guys are shooting for that.   We all know we're in it and we're all trying to lead that race.   
I think we have a lot of great guys such as those wrestlers coming up and we're going to make an impact not only on the national level, but a world level.   It's great knowing they're going to be my teammates in the future and those guys motivate me.   
   
 Q.   Has it hit you that tomorrow night is going to be your last collegiate match, your last match for Oklahoma State?   Are you ready to put the final note on the college career and move on?   Or does it seem like it went too fast?   
JORDAN OLIVER:   It has it's pro's and con's.   It seems like it went way too fast.   I love this tournament, coming here every year.   This is like the biggest championships in the U.S. This is probably bigger than World Championships and things like that.   
So definitely did go too fast, and obviously I know it's going to be my last collegiate match tomorrow night.   As a senior, I want to go out with a bang, but I'm not getting ahead of myself, just taking it one match at a time.   I still have one more match to go out and get the job done.   
Like I said, I want to go out with a bang and make sure I lay it all on the mat with no regrets and get out there and compete.   
THE MODERATOR:   Jordan, congratulations, good luck in the finals.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT