DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 23, 2021
Aaron Hicks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Aaron, seemed like you had another good round today.  How were the course conditions?  We know it's a little bit wet, and how did you play today?
 AARON HICKS:   I feel like I played all right.  I definitely had some birdie opportunities that I definitely didn't take advantage of today.  I had a short putt on 17, and obviously the putt on 18, so that kind of stung.
 But I feel good.  I'm just having fun out here, doing shots that I probably wouldn't do in like a regular tournament I feel like, especially with trying to dry greens and stuff like that.
 But I'm just having fun out here really.
 Q. Is this the first type of tournament you've played in that's a pretty large scale tournament?
 AARON HICKS:   Yeah, yeah.  This is definitely it.  I've only played one pro-am, so this definitely is the most watched golf I would say I've played, and I'm having a blast.
 Q. Being that this is kind of your first go-round, what were the nerves like on Thursday?  Even if you're trying to have fun, there is still people watching, still television.  I imagine it wouldn't compare to baseball; it's a different sport.
 AARON HICKS:   I would say hole No. 1 is probably the one hole that kind of makes me nervous.  I just drop it down and hit it as fast as I can so I don't have to think about anything.
 It's been -- I think just playing a game that I love is kind of what's cool about this, and kind of get to know the LPGA players.  I think that's things that most people don't get to do.  I'm having fun doing it.
 Q. How fun was that eagle on 10?
 AARON HICKS:   Oh, that was -- I needed something to get me going, and that was a putt that definitely started to get me going in the right direction.
 You know, I was extremely happy to do it in that fashion.
 Q. And was it 13 or 14 where you almost chipped in from behind wherever that was?
 AARON HICKS:   I don't know.  Was it 14?  Yeah.  Maybe 14.
 Q. Yeah.
 AARON HICKS:   I don't know.
 Q. Saw the shot, didn't see what hole...
 AARON HICKS:   Exactly, yeah.
 Q. But it looked like you were kind of on a roll there, too?
 AARON HICKS:   Yeah, no, man, that would've been awesome if that went in for sure.  That would've been a nice eagle right there.
 Q. Much has been said about your swing, how great it is.  Do you have an instructor?  Who do you work with?
 AARON HICKS:   I don't work with anybody.  You know, that was kind of a swing that developed over time.  I played 5 to 13 and then I start picking up baseball, and I picked up baseball again when I turned pro, so I don't work with anybody.
 Q. I guess I should ask who was your instructor whenever you were a kid?
 AARON HICKS:   My dad.  So my dad and the Golf Channel.  So my dad would watch the Golf Channel, and whatever he learned from the Golf Channel that day, we would take it to the range.  That was kind of my lessons for the day.
 Q. Do you have a favorite player?  I know who your favorite female player is, but do you have a favor male player that you like their swing or pay attention to?
 AARON HICKS:   I mean, man, I mean, obviously growing up I was a huge Tiger Woods fan.  You know, everybody was.
 But, I mean, guys I like today are guys like Patrick Cantlay.  I like him a lot.  Obviously DJ and Rickie Fowler and all those guys.  They just make the game seem fun, and that's kind of what people want to see when they're watching golf.
 Q. Just one more.  You played with Danielle today.  Talk about her game.
 AARON HICKS:   I mean, she stripes it off the tee box.  She's extremely accurate when she has opportunities to attack the pin.  She can putt.  You know, that's really what she did today, she was putting.  It was impressive, and it was fun to play with her for sure.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT