SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2020
Mark Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nicely done out there. Just the one bogey; seven birdies. How did the golf course play for you? Other guys were struggling, but seemed to be okay for you.
MARK ANDERSON: It was tough, but managed to keep it in front of me. Drove it really well. That's the key out here at Waialae. Kept it in the fairway and hit a lot of greens and made a few putts today.
Q. Yeah, 13 of 14 fairways; 15 of 18 greens in regulation. When you're playing in conditions like this, what's the most important thing for you?
MARK ANDERSON: For me knee it's just patience. It's easy to get ahead of yourself and start thinking about what the next hole is going to play like. One shot at a time is so important for me out here. If it gets windy, just focusing on just trying pick a number. That's the hardest part, and so far I've done it pretty well.
Q. Kind of a mixed bag as you started the season in the fall: Three cuts, three missed cuts. Did you spend some time working on anything in particular during the week between there and now?
MARK ANDERSON: Not really. I enjoyed my break. I kind of needed to just be with the family, and I just really picked it up probably just after Christmas. Started getting back into the grind.
So it's been a nice break. Maybe I'm just refreshed.
Q. Mark, 6-under, 64 ties the low rounds of the week. How would you assess the round here today?
MARK ANDERSON: Really good. It played tough, but I kept the ball in the fairway. Didn't drive it out of play. Golf course demands that, so it was a really solid day.
Q. When you start on the back nine on a weekend is it different than when you start on the front? Maybe a little less pressure?
MARK ANDERSON: I don't know. The first few holes on the back are tough. I would almost rather start on the front. No, I mean, just go out there and I got off to a great start. I birdied 10 and 11 really well, which they were playing extremely difficult today.
Then just hung in there, made a few putts, and took advantage of a couple easier holes on the front.
Q. Is this kind of where you got used to these conditions a little bit more and know how to play some of the shots?
MARK ANDERSON: I think so. The first round was really tough. It was the first time I played in wind like this in a long time. Figured out your yardages and what I wanted to do and how I was going to almost just chip shots around the golf course. Throughout the week it's gotten a little bit easier.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT