CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 9, 2012
Mark Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS:   I'd like to welcome Mark Anderson.   Mark, you got it to 9‑under for the tournament.   If you want to kind of give us your thoughts about how you're playing and what you're having to do coming into this week and then we'll take a few questions. 
MARK ANDERSON:   Thanks.   Well, obviously I'm playing pretty good being up there near the lead or in the lead.   But it's been solid.   The last couple days I've really driven the ball much better than I have all year, and I switched to the belly this week.   Went back to the old belly putter.   I've made a lot more putts than I have recently, so I think those two things have been the key.
MARK STEVENS:   Okay.   Questions.

Q.   So much talk has been made about the 125 this week but in your position you kind of gotta hail Mary or third or better.   What's it like to know you have to play really well instead of hanging on to the 125th position?
MARK ANDERSON:   It's tough and it kind of makes it easier at the same time.   Obviously it's hard to win out here, and to finish top 3 is great playing.   But it also means I can just kind of go out there and freewheel it.   I have to play well.   I know that.   And I kind of wish I'd take that same approach every single week. 
I try not to think about it.   I just want to play as good as I can.   It's the last tournament of the year.   I haven't really contended yet this year, so it'll be nice to enter the weekend with a chance to win it and that was kind of the goal coming into the week.

Q.   What sort of prompted the switch back to the belly putter you mentioned and if you can maybe fill us in on how long you went without it and that sort of thing. 
MARK ANDERSON:   I started the year with the belly putter.   I played the beginning of the year with it and I can't remember exactly when I switched.   Middle of the summer somewhere and went back to the short putter because it felt really great and I made a lot of putts with it. 
The last month or two I've hit the ball very well, but I just haven't made the putts.   So it was kind of a last minute do or die deal.   I was going to kind of live and die by going back to it.   I know I can putt well with it. 
I just put it in I think last Wednesday and worked with it for a few days and brought it here and we were going to see how it went.

Q.   Have you always putted with it during your career, going back to growing up?
MARK ANDERSON:   No.   I played it the end of last year, I think the second to last tournament on the Web.com Tour I put it in, finished second with it there.   So I've had some good memories with it and it's served me well.   But it's just kind of went away and now I'm back with it.

Q.   Talk about the possible rule change obviously. 
MARK ANDERSON:   Yeah.   I saw an article I think on the cover of golf week.   I didn't pick it up and read it.   I didn't have time.   Sorry. 
But no, we kind of all knew that it was coming.   We've been talking about it all year.   I don't know when it's going to happen.   I know I can putt well with the short putter, but in the meantime while I can still putt with it, I'm going to use it, if it keeps working the way it has been this week.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
MARK ANDERSON:   You know, I mean I can certainly see why the USGA and R&A want to ban it because it is a little unconventional.   It does I think make it a little easier.   But at the same time guys have won majors and big tournaments with it.   So it's going to be interesting to see how they classify guys' wins pre and after the belly putter.

Q.   If it's worked so well for you, why did you get away from it mid summer?
MARK ANDERSON:   It just went away.   It's one of those things.   Maybe it's called golf.   I don't know.   But I struggled with it.   For me the belly putter is all about set up, and I think I just got into some poor set up and bad ball position and whatnot with it.   So getting it way from it I guess maybe a refreshment.

Q.   You said you were freewheeling and you felt good and you wished you could do it all the time?
MARK ANDERSON:   Yeah.

Q.   Why can't you do it?
MARK ANDERSON:   I don't know.   That's a good question.   Sometimes when you're out here you just grind it, and obviously I haven't hit the ball ‑‑ sometimes when you're not hitting the ball good you can't be freewheeling it.   But when I'm hitting the ball good off the tee it kind of feeds into the rest of my game.   If I can just keep that driver going well, which is nice, especially out here because it's a big golf course with a lot of room where you can hit a lot of drivers, and I like that.   So whenever my driver is on, I feel like I can freewheel it on any golf course.

Q.   Can you just kind of talk about the season.   You made eight out of the first nine cuts and were in pretty good shape and it's been kind of dry after that. 
MARK ANDERSON:   Yeah, it was a nice start.   I got off to a real consistent start, had a couple of good finishes.   Once the summer came along, I really struggled.   I didn't feel very good off the tee.   I really struggled getting the ball in the fairway which is critical during some of those summer events, AT&T or Quail Hollow or something like that where you really have to drive the ball well.   Nothing really seemed to go well.   I tried to change a few things.   I changed my putter, which worked for a little bit, but I can't really explain what happened, but I've just been trying to focus on the last half of the year just trying to focus on driving the ball a little bit better and being more aggressive.

Q.   Did I read in your bio that your motto is finish strong?
MARK ANDERSON:   I don't know.   Is that in my bio?   I'm not sure.   You know, you always like to finish strong, which I didn't do today, unfortunately.   But in anything I do I've always had the mindset that at the very end of it, whether I'm running or something like that, just go as long as you can for the last little bit of it.
MARK STEVENS:   Any other questions?   Thanks a lot, Mark.   Good luck this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT