VERIZON HERITAGE
April 15, 2010
Mark Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Mark Anderson into the interview room. After 1-under par-70.   
 Mark, it was a little roller coaster out there, 6 birdies, 3 bogeys and a double. Overall a pretty good start for you. If we can get your comments.  
 MARK ANDERSON: Yeah, that's about the best way to describe it. Roller coaster up and down. I got off to a nice start on 1, which is a difficult hole for me off the tee. I was happy to make birdie there. And then I just couldn't seem to hit very many greens. I missed a lot of greens with short irons, which I guess happens a lot out here. And I didn't convert the ten-foot par putts, like you need to do to keep the momentum going.   
 I was up and down I thought after 16. I made two nice birdies in a row there. And 17 was playing pretty easy. I thought easily I could hit 4 there, and I just hit the wrong club.  
 JOHN BUSH: Coming in with some confidence. You're currently No. 16 on the Nationwide money list, and a couple of top-10 finishes recently. Comment on your season so far on the Nationwide Tour.  
 MARK ANDERSON: I'm very pleased. I've had consistency, I feel like. I missed one cut in Australia, but other than that I've played consistently. And I've been in the mix a couple of times, which has been nice. To finish 4th in Panama and have a good chance of winning, and I guess I was kind of there all week in Louisiana. So it's been fun. I'm pleased with the way I'm progressing out there. I'm learning a lot every week.   
 JOHN BUSH: Talk a little bit about the strength of that Tour, and how much confidence that gives you coming into this week.  
 MARK ANDERSON: Well, I've been asked a lot this week, is it different playing as a professional than an amateur, and it is different. But I keep saying the Nationwide Tour has been -- it's really prepared me well. It's the same feeling, the same setup as the PGA TOUR. We have galleries out there. Not like we have on practice round days here, but there's a lot of people out there on the weekends.   
 So we have the same feeling playing in front of big crowds. I've learned so much, and I've really enjoyed it.  
  
  Q. Obviously a roller-coaster ride and it could have been a much better round. But overall looking, you're 1-under par, and well inside the cut line after one day of play on the PGA TOUR. You have to feel pretty good about yourself, right?  
 MARK ANDERSON: Yeah, I'm a little bit disappointed in the way I finished today. I feel like I let a couple of shots go. But for leaving a lot of shots out there, I'm glad to be at 1-under. It could have been a lot worse, and I'm not thinking about the cut. Like I said, I was trying to get to 4-under, I wasn't trying to protect any 3-under. And tomorrow I'm just going to go out there and play the same way I did today, try and stick to my game plan, not worry about that. I think things should take care of itself.  
  
  Q. A lot of family and friends over again this year, I would presume?  
 MARK ANDERSON: Tons of family and friends. I had a big following. I've gotten a lot of tickets for people this week. It's been kind of hectic trying to organize all that. But, yeah, it's been nice to have the family out there, especially. And tons of supporters that I didn't even know would show up. Every hole I hear somebody giving me some support or yelling my name, so it's been nice.  
 JOHN BUSH: Thanks for coming by. Appreciate it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT