THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 1, 2019
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you tell us about 3, the hole-out?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I hit a good drive there.  Just went in one of the many first cuts I hit it in today and then was kind of between clubs and tried to run a 3-wood up there and just kind of squirted right on me.  Was fortunate to have a decent lie and had a shot, a lot of green to work with, and yeah, that was one of the few positives of the day.   
 Q.  Yesterday you said you couldn't quite get into a rhythm before your round.  Was that more of the same today?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I don't know, just some -- my mind is just all over the place.  I can't seem to focus.  Not playing well today definitely doesn't help with that, and that's no excuse, it's no one's fault but my own, but sometimes you just can't quite get into it.  Now hopefully I'll at least have a chance to where I can try to make something up this weekend.   
 Q.  Let's address the elephant in the room.  What's going on with your arm?  Does it feel okay today?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It's just sore.  Just feels like I have a dead arm the whole day.  It just feels like it kind of needs to get popped.  Yeah, just doesn't have a lot of strength.   
 Q.  Just your wrist --  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It's my whole arm.  My whole arm is -- it's not numb, but it's tingly a little bit.   
 Q.  Right now you're just outside the cut line, but who knows this afternoon.  8, that putt that just -- was that in your mind?  Were you thinking I need to make one to get in there and get to 1-over?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I knew if I got to 1, then I would definitely make it, but I think 2 has a really good chance.  The course is very difficult in itself, but no, I mean, I was more upset with the four or five other very poorly played holes that I had earlier in the day.  But at that point there was nothing I could do.  Yeah, just kind of misread a putt on 8 and then hit a good tee shot on 9, but again, being in that first cut you can't really be as aggressive.   
 Q.  What did you do for treatment last night?  I know you said you were going to ice, but did you seek any more treatment?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: No, because -- I took some Advil.  It didn't feel too bad.  Just kind of woke up this morning and just kind of grabbed a water bottle and I could kind of feel it.  It's not bad, it just is like it's more annoying than anything.   
 Q.  What did you say it felt like again?  You said it kind of felt like you hit a stinger almost?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, it just feels like I have a dead arm, like when someone kind of punches you in the arm and you have a dead arm, it's just been about a seven-hour-long dead arm.   
 Q.  When the gentleman came in, he said he told you to just chip it in?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, maybe I need that guy to follow me around more often.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT