PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2018
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You got off to a good start.  Two birdies in your first three holes, talk about how you started.
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I got off to a great start.  I just kind of hit a lull there in the middle.  I just couldn't really get, make any putts.  I was hitting some good putts, they just weren't going in.  But I stayed patient out there, I gave myself a chance, I just, man, I'm really frustrated with that break I got on 18, it was so bad.  But it was a good save for bogey to limit the damage.
Q. Talk about 17.
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, it was good.  It was a good drive.  I was in between a 5- and 6-iron I decided to go with a little 5-iron.  Just hit it, over cut it a little bit and it was a tough lie back there, so that was a good up-and-down to get one more coming in.
Q. Talk about 18, the bunker shot.
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, just my ball somehow for the second time this week bounced into a plugged lie.  Which Thursday I rolled into a mark that someone didn't rake and today it somehow bounced into a plugged lie.  And there's two times where I would have a pitching wedge to a relatively easy pin, perfect bunkers, and I made two bogeys because of the lies that I've had.  So that's pretty frustrating, because that's out of my control and it's just really unlucky.  But hopefully we'll get the good breaks tomorrow.
Q. The back nine the later groups have struggled or kept level par.  Is that because that's a lot of holes in one day, is that part of it?
JUSTIN THOMAS: It could be.  I felt my energy level stayed up.  I easily could have shot 3- or 4- under on that nine if I would have made some putts or hit some better shots.  But that's the thing about the entire golf course, it's the same way, if you're playing well, driving it well, you can make birdies, but if you're not, you're grinding to make pars.
Q. You obviously won this last year, what will it take tomorrow for you to get back up and do it again?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Well, I don't know how far I'm going to be, so that's the first and foremost.  But there's a lot of really, really good players that are up there, so I'm going to need to put together a pretty special round tomorrow, but I know I'm capable of doing it, it's just a matter of doing it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT