PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2018
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Justin, what's the biggest challenge about such a quick turnaround like that?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: The biggest -- I mean, I was fortunate to where I played well this morning, so I'd like to -- you know, it's a good thing to keep going hopefully.  The main thing is, in this heat, just staying -- keeping the energy levels high.  So just got to make sure you're eating a lot, drinking a lot of water, and just staying as rested as possible out there.   
 Q.  What's your routine now between rounds?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I'm going to go home and shower and change.  I feel like I just played 27 holes, and I only played 11.  So, yeah, anything I can do to feel like it's a fresh start to the day, I'm going to do so.  Going to start my routine as soon as I get the tee times.   
 Q.  What could it take this weekend to go back to back this weekend and defend your title?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: As cliche as it is, I just beat everybody else.  I'm in a good position.  I'm in a lot better position than I was when I came out here this morning, which is great.  I accomplished what I needed to do.  There's a lot of golf left on a very gettable golf course.  But at the same time, it can show its teeth if you're not driving it well.  If I continue to drive it well and get that putter rolling like I did this morning, then I feel confident.   
 Q.  Is there any chance at all that this golf course maybe dries out over the next two days?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I think it would have if we didn't get that rain yesterday.  The balls are starting to bounce out a little bit.  The zoysia does a great job with the rain and the water.  You don't get -- knock on wood, you don't get too many mud balls, or the ball just seems to bounce a little bit.  So that's good.  But we would need a good 20, 25 mile an hour wind, I think, to have a chance of it drying out a little bit.   
Yeah, the greens are going to continue to stay like this pretty much regardless.  That's just how they are.   
 Q.  When's the last time you've seen crowds like today and yesterday?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I don't think I've ever played in front of that many people.  I was saying that to Joey and Jimmy.  This is the first real Tiger effect, I guess you could say.  I've played with him a handful of times in tournaments but haven't exactly had crowds like this, so it's pretty incredible.   
 Q.  What does it do to you?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It's still golf.  I'm not worried about the crowds.  I'm not worried about him.  I'm just out there trying to make as many shots as I can and trying to make as many birdies as I can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT