HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 29, 2018
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you reflect on this one?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Man, it was one of the better rounds I've had in a while.  I could have shoot a 1-under on the front easy, could have shot a three or four under.  I had total control of my ball, drove it beautifully, hit some really, really quality iron shots.  The greens are a little bumpy in the afternoon, so that made it difficult to make some putts, but I stayed patient and was able to make a couple there.  Just had one mistake on 17, I didn't hit a bad shot.  I just kind of had a freaky little wind switch there and the ball went 20 yards farther than we thought it was going to.  So it's unfortunate to finish how we did, but we really, really played well today.
Q. What's the biggest challenge you're facing this week coming over to an environment which is not like the PGA TOUR?
JUSTIN THOMAS: It's just a hard golf course.  That in itself is the challenge.  Just playing this golf course.  It's very narrow.  You have to hit the fairways to have birdie chances into the greens.  And I hit a couple of tee shots today that were literally a yard and a half off the fairway and I had a tough lie in the rough and you were just trying to make par from there.  So that in itself is the challenge.
Q. How exciting to have an opportunity to win one of Europe's oldest championships going into this weekend?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah.  I'm excited.  I feel like my game is in a good spot.  I feel a lot better than I thought I would have at the end of a three-week stretch here.  But yeah, I'm in a good spot, not too far back and just need to keep doing what we're doing.
Q. Today's round of 70.  It was just a couple of bad shots you said that cost you today.  Seemed a little bit of misfortune that just cost you that one hole.
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah.  Obviously we in retrospect probably hit the wrong club but we were playing for five or six yards of help there, and the wind is supposed to predominantly be off the left, and it completely switched straight down, and it literally flew 15, 20 yards farther than we thought it was going to.  That's stuff that you can't play for, and unfortunately it just happens in golf.  But it was a bummer, yeah, hit six good shots and made a double bogey.
Q. Varying among the conditions, though, you must be pretty pleased the way you putted your way around the first two days?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Absolutely.  Today I told Jimmy walking up to the last hole, it was probably one of the best holes we've had tee to green in a very long time.  It's obviously a bummer not to get more out of it, but definitely look at more of a positive than a negative.
Q. What were your expectations coming here?  Obviously coming here, Ryder Cup course as well.  Has it surprised you in the way it has played?
JUSTIN THOMAS: No expectations because I've never been.  It's a different country, so I didn't know how the golf course, what the grass was like, what the firmness, softness of the greens, whatever it was.  I had none.  So it's by far exceeded them.  I mean this is a championship golf course.  I mean this place could easily host a major, and I think it's going to be a great venue for a Ryder Cup.  And it should create for some exciting golf this weekend as well.
Q. How excited are you about challenging in a Rolex Rankings series event going into the weekend?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I'm excited.  I'm in a good spot.  Obviously not as far up as I'd like to be, but that being said, only four shots back with two days to go, very doable.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT