HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2018
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A Top-10 finish in unfamiliar surroundings.  How have you enjoyed your week in Paris?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It's great.  If you told me at the start of the week, I would have four rounds under par or better, I would have been very pleased; I am.  Today didn't go how I would have wanted.  I very easily could have won this golf tournament, which is frustrating, but it definitely wasn't a wasted trip.   
 Q.  Your Ryder Cup Teammates are going to want to know all about this golf course.  What will you tell them?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It's all right in front of you.  There aren't any tricks.  It's a good, hard, championship golf course.  You have to drive it straight.  It's pretty much all everybody back at home knew.  So just work on the shots off the tee a little bit more.   
 Q.  You will probably be back one day, right?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I played really well this week.  I just didn't quite have it today.  I mean, through ten holes, I really wasn't playing well and I was 2-under, and I was in a great chance to have a chance these last couple holes.   
It was pretty frustrating, but you know, it was a good trip after my third week in a row.  I thought I held up pretty well.   
 Q.  You'll be back for The Ryder Cup.  You learned probably a not that course.?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, it's not anything crazy or anything tricky.  It's all right in front of you.  You just have to hit the golf shots and execute them, and then you're rewarded for that.   
 Q.  You have time to learn a bit of French at the end of the week?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I have not, no.   
 Q.  What do you think of the place here?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It's a great golf course, great city, town.  I've enjoyed everything about this week.   
 Q.  With The Ryder Cup here in two, three months, this is the best place for this competition?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I don't think there's really necessarily a best place.  They are all good.  You could put us on any golf course in the world and we're going to get excited to play The Ryder Cup, and the fact that it's at a great golf course and a great venue like this here in Versailles makes it better.   
 Q.  Are you ready to play The Ryder Cup?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Well, it's a couple months away and I have tournaments in between, so I'm worried about those first.   
 Q.  Will you advice for your colleagues?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It sounds like for the most part they knew it was a narrow course and it was tough, and I'll just reiterate that to them.  It's not like there's any ground-breaking stuff that I learned here.  I definitely learned some stuff.  It's all right in front of you.  There's not any blind shots or anything like that.  You just have to go out and execute.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT