MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2018
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How did you assess your week? I know it was a disappointing last few holes for you, but in general?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I played well this week, just putter let me down. I played well enough to have a great chance to win the Tournament, I just didn't make any putts. And any time I kind of got some momentum I did something to crush it.   
   
 Q. You have seen these performances from Jordan before, what was it like being out there with him and how surprised if any are you when you see him going around like that?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, well Sundays out here are set up‑‑ I mean you still have to play some unbelievable golf ‑‑ but you can do it on a day like today, especially with the soft greens. He had total control of his ball off the tee and his irons and he wasn't doing anything crazy, the only really long putt he made there was on 16. But, no, he was just doing everything you should, he was hitting good iron shots and taking advantage of the par‑5s and some of the easy holes and, yeah, it was fun to watch.   
   
 Q. Was there ever a point ‑‑ I know you're in your own space during this tournament‑‑ but as the day developed, did he see say anything to you or did you say anything to him as you looked at the leaderboard and saw things were sort of ‑‑  
JUSTIN THOMAS: No, he doesn't look at leaderboards, so he had no idea where he was at.  
   
 Q. Did you notice it at all?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I look at them, but we were just having a ‑‑ I mean that's, I hate to say, my job, but I had no chance of winning, so I was pulling for him and all I was trying to do was ‑‑ I mean it's just another round of golf for both of us. Yeah, he had a chance to or potentially, depending upon what happens, has a chance to win the Tournament, but I mean we're not out there talking about that, we're out there just having another round of golf.   
   
 Q. When you got to the course today did you guys think you had a legitimate chance to win?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: No, I mean I said that, but I don't think we did. It definitely‑‑ I mean I figured it would take a 10‑ or 11‑under, but how I've been putting, I didn't necessarily see a 10 or 11‑under in my game.   
   
 Q. Did he get a read off your putt on 16?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: A little bit. I mean it's such a bowl. The farther right you play it the more it's going to break, it's just all about getting the speed right. Jordan's speed's usually really good, so that's just in that range where he makes a lot of putts. So it was pretty cool. I had goose bumps on my arms.  
   
 Q. You say it was nothing special, did it kind of surprise you that he made it look so easy and that actually it was a very special round?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Not really, to be honest. I mean that's, there's a reason he's Jordan Spieth and he's done all the great things he's done. It's not like it was the 100th ranked player in the world doing it, it was a three‑time Major champion, someone who's won here before, someone who is a hell of a player and done some great things and will continue to. So it definitely didn't surprise me.  
   
 Q. Did you get a good look at his tee shot on 18?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I was standing right there, so, yeah, I could see it.   
   
 Q. Was that something that, a tree that you guys actually have to think about?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: There's a lot of trees on that tee shot you have to think about sometimes. But it's just, it's a narrow chute and if it starts off line, I mean obviously it wasn't a good tee shot, but if it doesn't hit the tree it's in the bunker like where mine was. And it's just, yeah, it's just that one limb that hang out there, but, yeah, it definitely it wasn't his best tee shot, but it was definitely a bummer he came in like that.   
   
 Q. Would y'all have had conversations about playing, when your were kids, about playing in the last group or one of the last groups at the Masters or was that something that you never discussed?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Maybe. I don't necessarily remember talking about it at all, but it sounds like something we could have talked about, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT