THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 23, 2018
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just takeaways after two days here.
JUSTIN THOMAS: I'm in a great position.  I'm playing really well.  Obviously upset with 16, but man, I played really solid out there.  I had some great par saves.  Even have the opportunity to have a bogey-free round on a day like today was good.
But I'm in a good spot, really good spot going into this weekend.  So I just need to continue to try to play well.
Q. How did the conditions compare to yesterday?
JUSTIN THOMAS: I don't know why.  It seemed like the scores were higher but I'm not really sure why.  I don't know how it was this morning.  I guess it was gusting a little bit this afternoon but it didn't seem as consistency windy today.  It would kind of come and go in spurts.  These greens are just getting so firm.
I mean, I hit a shot on 7 today, 237 hole and probably the best swing I made all day, this cut 6-iron that landed six paces on the green, and it rolled five yards over the green.   There was really nothing I could do.  I couldn't hit it any better.  It's stuff like that where it getting to the point where you almost can't make birdies on some pins unless you make a long putt.
Q. Did you take notice of seeing Tiger's name on the leaderboard, and if so, what did you make of it after playing with him last week?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I kind of saw it.  You can kind of hear everything that's going on behind you.  The roars from Patton and Sneds were a little different sounding than the ones for Tiger, so I knew when something good was happening.  It was a little slower out there today, too, so some of the holes we could kind of watch.
I don't know, it's great.  I would love -- I've said that before, I would love nothing more than to come down 18 with him on Sunday and both of us have a chance to win.
Q. From what you were saying, were the greens more of a factor than the wind even is at this point?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, they both make it very difficult.  I don't think -- I mean, the greens, they are pretty chewed up, so they are tough to make some putts late in the day.  But they are just so firm that it's really hard it control your distance.
Q. Do you like the way you hit the ball overall?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I'd like to drive it better.  I had a couple loose drives out there today.  A little disappointed how I played 18.  I felt like I had a good chance to make a birdie there, or at least make a birdie today.  I can't tell you the last time I didn't make a birdie in a round.
Q. The Masters.
JUSTIN THOMAS: The Masters?  Well, actually, I knew I did that.  I guess I didn't think I had done it otherwise.  But yeah, I just played really solid and had some great par saves, which is what you have to do on a course like this.
Q. With still 36 to go, conditions supposed to remain similar over the weekend.  You're in a good position.  Do you feel in a good spot?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I feel like I'm in a great spot.  I mean, I would like it a lot more if I was one stroke better or even more than that, but there's not a whole lot I can do.  I'm in a great position to give myself a chance to win the tournament.
Q. Does this feel almost like a U.S. Open?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, very well could.  Just depends on what's going to happen with the weather, or the wind, and the greens, and how they choose to set up the golf course.
The thing about it, you saw Luke, if you drive it well, you can score on some of these holes.  Some of them are really difficult, but if you drive it well, you can make some birdies.  It's just it's hard.  It's just a hard golf course.  So, who knows.
Q. You had a look on your face all the way around like you were working really hard.  Did it feel like a grind out there?
JUSTIN THOMAS: It's hard, yeah.  I'm very tired.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT