WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 21, 2018
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was your energy out there today?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Today is the best time to golf.  There is a reason I did it two weeks ago so it wouldn't be affecting this week.  It's a little harder recovery than I thought, but I hit some really good shots out there.   
 Q.  What was it like to play someone and go all the way to the 18th hole who didn't have his putter?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I was thinking about it, how bad that would hurt if I couldn't get it done.  He hit some great putts and he made some good ones when he needed to.   
 Q.  You didn't have your best stuff today perhaps because of all that happened last week.  You might have run out of energy.  Talk about the match.  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I thought I played a lot better than the score would have shown for looking at the scorecard.  I didn't really make any putts.  I had some nasty lip-outs and just misread a couple.  If I have some of those putts go in and play the par-5s better, this could have been a lot shorter match.   
 Q.  Talk about the pressure that it puts on you when your opponent takes his putter out of play and he's putting with a sand wedge.  That's got to be kind of a weird mentality.  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It was.  I told Jimmy we just need to hit a lot of greens and make him have to make putts with that wedge.  He made -- I was looking at a putt that was going to possibly win the match there on 15, and he makes it and I have a nasty lip-out and lose the next hole.  Next thing you know, I'm looking at maybe losing the match.   
 Q.  It's a funny game.  What are your plans for the rest of the afternoon?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Go get some food right now, first and foremost.  Then just go do a little bit of practicing.  I thought I played well today, I drove the ball beautifully.  I didn't had the my irons as well as I liked.  I've had a hard time in the past around these greens.  Maybe I'll go out and do some putting work and try to figure these things out.   
 Q.  A win is a win.  You got up early in the match.  What was the key for you today?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I drove the ball well.  I felt I was in control a lot of the match in terms of having a lot of putts to win holes or he had a lot of putts or up-and-downs to halve the hole.  I was hitting a lot of greens.   
I mean, this is about as easy as this golf course is going to play.  No wind, just absolutely perfect conditions, perfect weather.  I was lucky that Luke wasn't at his best today.   
 Q.  When you get up early, 3-up after 6, how challenging is it for you to go ahead and finish it off?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It's not -- I mean, it's not challenging the fact that you are 3-up, it's challenging the fact that you are playing a good player.  Luke has been showing some very good form of late, so I knew it was going to be tough.   
And then, on 8, when he started putting with the wedge, I don't know what happened, but I knew that it would hopefully make it easier on me.  But it didn't.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT