SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 7, 2018
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess your week this week?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Rusty, for sure.  I was glad to finally play the par-5s well today.  I felt like I was just very impatient and probably not fair with myself the first three days.  I mean I was in fine position after the first day and then kind of let Friday and Saturday get the best of me, but I really just played the par-5s poorly all week.  When I look at the week as a whole, if I play the par-5s better I have a good chance to win the tournament at least in the top-5 or so, so I have that to at least kind of build ongoing into next week.   
 Q.  Surprised by that?  Playing that poorly on the par-5s?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I mean it never think you're going to play them over par, especially a place here where they're not very difficult.  I never played the 15th hole here very well, finally birdied it today, which was good, but I don't know, hopefully I'll play that hole a little bit better in the future.   
 Q.  Obviously better than yesterday.  You're going to get Bones next week.  Are you looking forward to that?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Exactly, I'm very excited, it will be fun -- obviously I wish I had Jimmy, I wish he was healthy -- but Bones is obviously a very good alternative.  And it's funny, Jordan, I was with Jordan yesterday and we were with him when I guess Jordan asked him when's the last time you caddied there and he said it was '92, and that was before either of us were born, so I would say the course has changed a little bit since then, but it's such an easy course to learn, it's all right in front of you, so but it will be good, I'm just excited to get back there and play.   
 Q.  How did it come about?  How did you think to ask him?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I was scrambling yesterday morning trying to figure out what I was going to do next week, if I wanted my dad or if I wanted someone or this or that and just kind of came up and figured I would ask him, it was worth a shot, and I had a text when I got done saying that he should be able to or he might be able to and then confirmed it in the afternoon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT