MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 12, 2020
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. A big part of you wish you could keep on going as good as you were playing?   
JUSTIN THOMAS: I mean, there's nothing I can do about it, so it doesn't really matter. It's not like I'm playing particularly great. I mean, obviously, my score is good, but just I made a couple of putts and took advantage of a couple of holes that I needed to.   
But, no, getting in ten holes at the start of the day with what it looked like on Monday is fine.  
   
 Q. Is it a good feeling then just to know you are where you are?   
JUSTIN THOMAS: I mean, obviously, I'm playing well. It's not like I'm playing bad or anything. I'm at 5 under. But it's not like I was sticking it really close or anything like that. I made a bad bogey on 7 with a gap wedge, had another chance on 9. But I played ten holes. I've got a lot of golf left. Just go home and get some rest. It's a long day tomorrow.  
   
 Q. With that said, you're going to have long days coming up in this tournament. Anything you do to prepare yourself, kind of keep yourself rested?   
JUSTIN THOMAS: No, I'm just going to get out of here as soon as I can. Going to eat and get to sleep as early as I can because tomorrow is going to be a long day. I need to stay as patient as I possibly can tomorrow.  
   
 Q. If you get it going tomorrow, does it kind of give you some momentum?   
JUSTIN THOMAS: Sure, I'd love to finish off the rest of the last eight holes well and hopefully continue the momentum. You never know what the next day is going to bring you in this sport. That's what makes it fun and not fun at the same time.  
   
 Q. Did you watch any coverage this morning and get a sense for how it was going to play and know you were going to have to fire at them?   
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I knew it was soft from the practice rounds, but I saw a little bit of highlights, watched some video and stuff. It's unbelievable coverage the Masters has and the website has, so it makes it nice. No, it's just it's so soft. I know Augusta is going to get this place as firm as they can. You can hear the SubAirs going right now. If they don't get any rain the next three days, the course will be in pretty good condition‑‑ I mean, pretty firm come Saturday and Sunday.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT