DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2017
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was the wind out there?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It was difficult.  It was very, very windy this morning.  I'm hoping it stays up a little bit, selfishly, so those guys can play in it, too.  But it's a lot more than what I was expecting, you know, teeing off at nine o'clock, 9:15.   
 Q.  How do you feel like you played?  1-under --  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Shot even.   
 Q.  I'm sorry.  But how do you think it went?  Was your game together, or like you said at the beginning of this week, last week was --  
JUSTIN THOMAS: No, it was weird.  I hit it poor -- those first five holes are so hard on that -- when you start on the back nine.  10 is usually a 3-wood, wedge.  I mean, you could even hit 2-iron, 9-iron or whatever.  I hit driver.  Didn't hit a great drive yesterday and had 130 yards and today I hit driver, 6-iron, and then same thing with 11, 12, 13, 14.  Those are all holes that are hard.   
So making pars on those wasn't the worst thing.  But you know, not playing the par 5s under par was a bummer, and I definitely left some out there.  But I just don't have much at the moment, or I didn't today.   
I did the best I could.  I mean, I fought for every stroke.  I just didn't have it.   
 Q.  What was your reaction to the gallery's reaction when you hit your tee shot on 12?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I knew that they were going to be confused, or not know what was going on.  But I just felt like that was the best way to play the hole today.  It changes every day with that hole but yeah, they were -- because I definitely hit it a little left of where I wanted, too, so that was even more left of where they thought it was going to be.  So it was -- I just kind of ignored them because I knew it was going to be like that.   
 Q.  What did you have in?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I had 174 front, probably -- I don't know even know what it was hole.  I was just trying to chop something around the green.  I mean, I had a terrible lie and I still could get it around the green.  So that's kind of why I like hitting it over there.   
 Q.  Talking with Gil yesterday, he said, give the guys a chance to learn how to play the hole.  Given the conditions today, do you feel like is the best way to play?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It just all depends on the wind.  I still don't think it's a very good hole but I just felt like with when it's a little bit helping like that, you can hit it far enough up that left.   
If I had hit a good drive this morning, I could have hit 7-iron or something in there whereas if you go up the right without going through the fairway, the closest you're going to get is 195 yards or so.  That's the closest you're going to get.  That's bringing the rocks into play and bringing the bunker, which is just brutal into play.   
So that's why I kind of like going up that left side with the proper wind.  If the wind is off the left, that's going to make it a lot harder because you can't kind of work it over there.  You have more of the trees to deal with.  I just feel like that's -- all I'm trying to do is make four 4s on that hole, and I feel like that's the best chance for me to make par.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT