THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2017
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did it go out there today?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Even keel, very easy day.  No, it was -- I don't really know what to say about that round.  It was so bizarre.  10, 11, 12, three of definitely the easier holes on this golf course, to bogey them all was less than ideal or less than what I thought of starting the day.  But I was happy with the way I ground out there.  I was fighting and I just was making too many mistakes.  But I'm in a really good position going into this weekend.
Q. Talk a little bit about your ability to bounce back, getting down three shots early.  You got down two shots again with a double bogey, but you bounced back.
JUSTIN THOMAS: It seems like any time I got momentum I seemed to give it right back.  To birdie 14, 15, 16 and get to even, and we were walking in the fairway on 14 and I was saying to Jimmy, I was like, all right, let's just to get this to even par on this side because I knew that I could get a couple on the front.  Obviously the main thing is just make the cut at that point.  When I'm 4-over through whatever, 20 something holes, 21 or 22 holes in the tournament, just because if you make the cut out here you have a chance to win the tournament.  So I was just kind of trying to stay patient and then would I make those birdies and then go bogey, double, and then it was weird.
Q. How much of a struggle for all of you today, either your games or just the conditions and the way they are?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Well the thing, it was a very different three even pars.  They just kind of -- they were smart and getting it around and they weren't hitting it well, but they hit it here, they get up-and-down, whereas I would make birdie or make bogey.  I'm obviously I'm not that pleased with even par after the amount of birdies I made, but I've hit a lot of really, really good shots.  So, I just need to just get those small kinks out that are causing the bogeys and I feel very confident.
Q. What sets you up better for the weekend, making a ton of birdies and being even par or making a bunch of pars and being even par?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Making a bunch of birdies and being even par.  I feel like I can -- I know why I'm making those bogeys, and if I can just work those out, and then just -- because I'm making bogeys on some easy holes.  I mean 10, 11, 12, I would expect to at least birdie one of those, and if I do that I have a great day today.  So I would definitely say that.
Q. What's the primary challenge posed by the course if you had to say one thing?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Probably the wind has really been swirling, it has.  Yesterday afternoon it was going everywhere.  Usually when it's going everywhere it's very, very light, you know it's a five- or so mile-an-hour wind, but when it gets up there 10, 15 and it's blowing different directions, that's difficult.  I'm sure that you could kind of see it again as we were finishing, so selfishly, I hope these guys have to deal with it a little bit like we did, but it's just -- that makes a course like this really difficult when you have to be so on point.
Q. We saw what happened on 18 yesterday.  Is that difficult for you managing your temperament?
JUSTIN THOMAS: I wouldn't really call that temper.  I mean, it just was -- it was just kind of like I fought so hard to get it back to even par and it was just more of like a kind of like a 'why' moment.  Trust me, if I throw a club I'm going to throw it a lot better than that.  Trust me.  That wasn't, that was just more of a kind of a release sort of thing.  No, if I'm going to Chuck it, you know it.
Q. (No Microphone.)
JUSTIN THOMAS: That wasn't even close to the same thing.  That was trying to save a double-cross and the club coming out of my hand sort of thing.
Q. You would never throw a club.
JUSTIN THOMAS: No, I don't throw clubs.  I'm happy.  Sergio and I are happy people.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT