TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 23, 2016
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  They took you out on the course?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: No, they took me in to watch the video.   
 Q.  Care to expand?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: No.  It's nothing against the rules officials.  It's a God awful rule.  It's the same exact thing that happened to D.J.  The rule says, if playing on a flat surface, if you put the putter behind the ball and the ball moves, you're deemed to have moved the ball, which I told them I totally agree with.   
I put the putter behind the ball.  One thing, it's not like it was right behind it.  I put it about that far behind the ball because I was kind of getting closer.  I looked at the green book, and it's a 4% grade and it was straight down grain.  What are the greens, 11, 12?  I just have a hard time believing that's a flat surface, you know what I'm saying?   
It's unfortunate just because it's -- like I said, it's nothing against them.  It's just a really bad rule.  It has to change.  It's very fortunate it didn't cost Dustin a major championship.  I hope it doesn't cost me anything.  I don't feel like I did anything wrong.  It is what it is, and I'll get over it.   
 Q.  In a similar scenario, would you feel like you caused the ball to move?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Not at all.  Guys, I'm not here to cheat.  I'm not going to tell you that I didn't make it move when I did.  If I made it move, I'll be the first to tell you.  I've signed a lower score and DQ'd myself before.  It's not like I'm out here trying -- if I want to move up the leaderboard, I'll make more birdies, not by trying to cheat.   
Like I said, I put it behind the ball, and it was a tough hole location.  Like I told the guys the same reason Jordan ran his 12-footer 3, 3 1/2 feet past.  It's on a severe slope, and it's down grain.  When you get on greens like this or poa annua.  Poa annua gets bumpy, but these have a lot of grain, you get on that severe of a slope, the ball moves sometimes.   
It sucks.  That's really about all I could say.   
 Q.  The way the course is playing, you feel like you'd be able to make up quite a few strokes tomorrow?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, absolutely.  Is D.J. leading?  7?  Yeah, I'm six back.  Obviously, I wish I was five, but I'm not.  It's a course, where if you go and play well, I feel like you can shoot 4, 5, 6 under.  I feel like that.  If you hit the fairways, you don't have that long of a club to get up onto the greens.  But then again, it just depends on -- there's plenty of guys in front of me.  That stuff can happen.  I just have to worry about myself and just play my game and go out there and play.   
 Q.  Difficult to put it out of your mind after the scenario unfolded out there?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It was a little bit, but honestly, I was really, really proud of myself.  I felt like I -- after that hole, and then I had to go for par on the next hole and bogeyed the next hole.  With 14, 15 coming up, those are two holes you can definitely bogey.  I made a good par on 14 and a great birdie on 15.  Made a great par on 16 and a birdie on 17.  I'm a birdie on 18 away from shooting even par.   
So I'm really proud of myself that I hung in there and really stayed in the moment and just tried to focus on every shot.  It could have gotten away from me today, but it didn't.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT