NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 18, 2016
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your group and playing with Fred Couples.
JUSTIN THOMAS: I had not spent a lot of time around Freddie, so that was cool to be around and he has quite the following out here, so that was pretty cool to be a part of.
As for myself, it was kind of a weird day.  Any time you're in the afternoon on poa annua, it can be tough and just have to stay patient.  Just missed some shorter ones that I felt easily could have gone in just as easily as they didn't, but at the same time, I felt like I made a lot of really good 3- to 5-footers.  I'm looking forward to fresh greens tomorrow, that's for sure.
Q. How do you feel the way you played No. 10 today, iron off the tee --
JUSTIN THOMAS: It was great.  Hope do I that the rest of my career, pretty easy.  But no, it's a lot easier today to what it was Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday when it was firm.  For me personally, I like laying up on that hole.  It's not a very good yardage, not a very good shot for me.  Yeah, just kind of how I like playing it.
Q. 4-iron?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, 4, anything to, occasionally maybe a 2-iron, usually a 4- or 5-iron, maybe a 6-iron, and just a wedge in.
Q. When you picked your ball up on 18 out of the hole it looked like you had an exchange with Jordan and he actually smiled.
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I just asked Freddie if I was in his through line and Jordan was upset that I didn't ask him even though I knew I wasn't anywhere close.  Just giving me grief as usual.
Q. Even through it all, what was it like to play with him on a day when there were so many scores separating you guys.  You're used much closer --
JUSTIN THOMAS: Doesn't matter who you are, everyone has days like this.  Obviously you never want to see anybody not do well, let alone a friend.  I wasn't worried about him.  I was worried about myself.  I was just trying to worry about how I could get it in the hole as fast as I could.  As a group, we had some holes we were struggling on the greens and that was just a part of it.  I think he'll be just fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT