CIMB CLASSIC
October 31, 2015
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So, great finish to the round.  Two birdies.  What was the importance of after that bogey, making those two birdies?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, well even the bogey was pretty big.  I just hit it the one place you couldn't hit it.   
But, yeah, those two birdies were huge.  I felt like I played really well for some stretches.   
I had some holes I didn't hit it well, but I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in.  So, it was nice to get that putt to go on 17 and finish on 18, finish on a good note.   
 Q.  Talk about that chip on 18.  That was pretty sweet --  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, it was.  I was fortunate.  I didn't think I hit my 4-iron that far.  I had 242 hole, and I just kind of just barely caught it a groove low and it knuckled and went over the green.  Being in the rough you never know what kind of lie you're going to get.   
It was good to where it just kind of had to get the speed right and I did, so that was a nice chip.   
 Q.  Now tied for the lead going into tomorrow, what is your overall thoughts heading into Sunday?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I feel great.  This is where you want to put yourself at every event.  I'm just going to use my past learning experiences in the other events I've played in and just try to go out there and hit a bunch of fairways.   
I'm not driving it very well this week, even though I'm playing well.  So, I feel like if I can hit more fairways, I can attack a little bit more on a couple holes where I'm not.   
So I'm just going to focus on that and try to go make as many birdies as I can again.   
 Q.  And would you say that you're starting to slow down now after a year on TOUR and being in contention?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, this is what I plan on doing and this is what my expectations every event I play in.   
But the first year went by fast.  It was a good year.  A couple events here and there from a great year.   
But it's over with, and I've got to use those experiences to learn from to go forward in the events on days like tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT