THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 4, 2015
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Just talk about the round today and where you find yourself going into the final round.JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, it was a good day.  Any time you don't make any bogeys, it's a good thing.  I definitely left some out there in the middle of my round.  I played well and gave myself some good looks, and I had some good putts.  It's just these greens are so severe that it's tough to make some.  So I wasn't really getting too down on myself.  That was a big putt I made on 17.  I felt like to let 13 or 12 go by without making birdie there was a pretty big mistake, and then I couldn't let another par-5 go by.  So to finish with that birdie on 17 kind of capped it off.Q. So you're saying the greens are severe now and drying out?  Did that change things?JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, they're definitely not drying up too much with the amount of rain we've gotten the last couple days and then it rained again today.  They're not firm greens, but they're just so good.  They're pure.  It's pretty remarkable how true they roll for how soft they can be or how soft they are with the amount of people that are playing.  It's just a credit to the greens staff and how well they've done.Q. How does your mentality change going into tomorrow with so many people bunched so tightly on the leaderboard?JUSTIN THOMAS: It doesn't at all.  It doesn't matter if it's one guy or if it's 10 or 12 or whatever it is.  I need to go out there and I need to post a good number and make a lot of birdies and just stay patient.  You never know when you're going to reel off four, five, six in a row out here, or any course for that matter.  I just need to go out there and just kind of keep plotting my way around, hopefully keep hitting it well and just get some putts to fall.Q. Do you feel ready to win on this level?JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I've been ready to win since I was playing as an amateur.  I've just put myself in more positions now.  Just whenever it's meant to be, it'll happen.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT