VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2015
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Birdies on his final 3 holes here in the opening round.   Good enough for 4-under, 67.   Justin, how pleased are you with the round and especially the finish?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I'm really pleased.   I played really, really well today.   I played a lot better than my score showed the first 10, 12 holes and I just -- I kept hitting good shots.   Wasn't quite getting in the right spots and putts weren't falling.   Made a bad bogey on 1 but tried to stay patient and finished well.

Q.   Your first Tour event on this golf course but you have experience in amateur events.   How does that help you when you start seeing these events and courses for the first time as a professional?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Helps a lot.   I think it's just kind of a comfort level, you get in spots and know spots you can't go or you know places you can't miss it or places you can get up and down from.   That's really big for me. 
There's not many places I get to play, you know, this year being my rookie season where I know pretty well and this is one I know fairly well and I'm pretty comfortable with it so, you know, I felt good.

Q.   Speaking of comfort level, how has that improved as 2015 moves along for you?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   It's moved on a lot.   I think I've learned, learned a lot the first -- however far we are into the season and I've just really, you know, really trying to stress on my preparation and just trying to stay disciplined and patient out here and it's going by fast but, yeah, I'm really enjoying it.

Q.   Hard for veterans to have patience and you had tremendous patience in this opening round and you were rewarded with birdies on your last three holes.
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I played really well.   It's the big thing.   I was just trying to stay patient.   I knew I was really, really hitting it well and driving it well which is a big part of this course and although I wasn't getting the exact spots I wanted on the greens, I was giving myself birdie putts. 
I hit -- I think I hit a lot of greens today, I don't know the exact number but I tried to just keep remembering that and keep it up.

Q.   This sounds strange to say to a rookie, but you put yourself in a position to win a number of tournaments already.   Are you feeling more and more comfortable with shooting low numbers out here?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah.   I think maybe not necessarily just shooting low numbers.   I'm getting comfortable with kind of like my game plans and preparation.   I'm more focused on that than anything. 
I think on days like today are more important than days where you know everything gets hot or something like that.   I mean today could have easily been an even par round but I really stayed patient.   Those are the rounds I'm trying to get better at.

Q.   Greens were receptive?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah.   Little soft out there.   I think this is new from this place.   I obviously haven't played the Tour event here.   Sounds like it's usually pretty firm.   I'm sure the wind and everything will dry it up.   You can throw some darts at some pins. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT