THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 4, 2015
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How did it go today?  
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, I played well.   This course never plays easy, but the conditions were easy.   There wasn't really any wind.   The greens are so good.   I really can't think of a time I played greens better, I really can't.   If you could just get it on the green, you can make it from anywhere.   I made some putts, but really missed‑‑ not a decent amount, but three or four putts that I could have made.   I've just got to keep keeping the ball in play and just try to make some of those putts.  
   
 Q.   The way you scored on par 5s, if you can take away those things today, how do you feel moving forward?  
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, I feel good.   My game is feeling pretty solid for a while.   It didn't feel good last week, but I got some really good work in the first couple of days this week.   And it's really nice coming back to a course, this is one of the first times I'm coming back to a course that I was playing last year and actually playing a pin that I know already.   So I'm very comfortable out here and I just need to keep on executing.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I am.   
   
 Q.   Not that far a drive.   How many family, friends?  
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I don't have too many friends here yet.   One of my friends from UK is here with her family.   But, yeah, you know, I've got a pretty good crew coming out tomorrow night.   I'm looking forward to it.   They've really never seen my play, just a couple of buddies have in Indiana, or something like that.  
I have a pretty hefty amount of tickets waiting for me at check‑in, so I have to thank Mr. Sullivan for that, for getting my friends to watch me play.  
   
 Q.   Do you know how many?  
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, I had 30 tickets at check‑in.   I have to save some for family.   Some of my family is from Pittsburgh, it's not too far a drive.   My mom's sisters, and my aunt and uncle.   And then I think 20 or 25 of my buddies are coming, so it will be a pretty good time.  
   
 Q.   Your own personal gallery, that's pretty good?  
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, I don't get that very often, so I'm excited for it.  
   
 Q.   Being this close to home, does that make you play a little bit easier, kind of put you a little more at ease?  
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Not really, I think it's just another‑‑ it's just golf.   It doesn't really matter where you are.   If anything, there's guys that make it harder for sure because you're playing in front of all your family and friends.   But it is nice when you're out there and you definitely get a little more support and a little more encouragement.   But, yeah, I'm just trying to keep playing golf and hopefully give them some good stuff to watch.  
   
 Q.   Hopefully, if that's the case, you're not going to have many family or friends around to play a little bit tougher?  
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Right.   
   
 Q.   How does this course fit your eye?  
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Really well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT