HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 25, 2015
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You put yourself in position again.   What do you take away from this?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I take a lot of positives.   I really, really played well enough today.   I feel like I definitely hit it well enough to win.   I missed a pretty good amount of putts.   It was the first time this week it was a little bit of a balky putter and obviously 16 I botched pretty bad, but I felt like I played well enough and that's all could I ask for and just got to get back at it so I'm ready for Torrey.

Q.   It's a young career so far, but what did you learn yourself and maybe what you need to do out there today?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I learned a lot.   I was really, really comfortable this week, which was a great feeling. 
I was honestly a little bit surprised, I thought I would be a little bit more nervous, but I felt really good.   I felt good about my game.   I really drove it nice today, which was good for a change. 
I just feel like I got to keep working at that.   That's a big part of my game and I'm really excited for the rest of the year.   These last two weeks have really been fun.

Q.   Watching Bill win did you learn something from him today?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I learned that it's better to play the last three 1‑under instead of 1‑over, but, no, yeah, it was really, really cool playing with him.   I maybe met him before but I never really got to know him and he's such a class act and a very, very deserving champion and hopefully I'll have some more battles with him in the future. 

Q.   Is there some disappointment?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Absolutely.   This hurts, definitely, a lot.   I feel like I really played well enough to win and I definitely put myself in position after 14 and 15 and 16 being an I definitely consider it one of the easier holes on the course and I was just a little amend and hit that 2‑iron farther than I thought and made the one mistake I couldn't do on the bunker shot.   So that's something that it's golf and, unfortunately, it happens like that sometimes, and it sucks when it does, but it just happens.   So I got to move on.

Q.   It sucks on 16, too, when you think you're doing the smart play, right, hitting 2‑iron?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, I just should have hit 4‑iron.   I was a little amped up and it was like 275 to the bunker and I run out, a 2‑iron usually gets about 260, and I just nuked it and turned it over a little bit.   But still, even in that bunker I should have been able to put that on the green and I just didn't execute that shot well enough. 
But it happens and I just need to take the positives from this week and move on.

Q.   You weren't nervous or anything?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I think really, like I said, I thought I would be a lot more nervous than I was.   I was extremely comfortable, I didn't really feel much, like did I last week.   I think last week was the big reason why I felt good today.   So, hopefully it's a feeling that I'll be like that for the remainder of the year when I get in contention.

Q.   How do you feel different as a player now compared to January 1?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I feel, I guess maybe I don't feel any better of a player, but I feel a lot more experienced and I feel a lot more confidence.   I know that I can win out here.   I know that I have the game to.   It's just a matter of putting it together and just doing the right things at the right times.   It doesn't matter who it is, when you win, it needs to be your week and you need to have the things go for you and you need to make the putts and it just wasn't my week, so it happens. 

Q.   What was the club out of the bunker on 16?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   A sand wedge.   I didn't put it far enough back in my stance.   I needed to make sure I hit ball first there and I thought if I turned it over, I would have made sure I hit ball first and just tried to kind of sling a hook in there and just get it on the green and I just hit, hit so fractionally behind it and in the water she went. 

Q.   Torrey coming up, what was the nature of the exemption, did you write them?   What was the contact?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, I wrote for an exemption kind of called and stayed in contact and I played this, I think this was ‑‑ yeah, Torrey was the week after this last year, so I played and I missed the cut last year, so I practiced Sunday and then drove Sunday afternoon, because I was actually in the Monday and I went to go warm up for the Monday and they called me and said, don't go play, you're in the tournament, and that was a pretty cool thing how that all worked out because Mondays are always kind of a crap shoot, you never know what you're going to get.   I'll never be able to thank him enough for than it was really a great week. 

Q.   How does it kind of change the rest of the year?   You've got a good amount of money pretty early, things like that.   Does the rest of the year feel any different to you?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Not necessarily, no.   I think that maybe second half of the year or so I'll be able to take some tournaments off that I wouldn't have, if I wasn't playing well.   But I want to get into those invitational's and WGC's and all the imagines and today was a great opportunity for me and I was pretty bumped to finish how I did, but birdie on 18's better than a par, so onward.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT