HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 24, 2015
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You battled your swing today you had some putts that you know you thought you made but you still got 68 out of it.   You got to be pleased. 
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Definitely on a day that was a little tougher today.   Although it's still a scorable golf course, but it definitely got windy and it was swirling a lot so it made it difficult to judge how far and where it was coming from interest. 
But, yeah, I started off well, I got myself up there a little bit and like I struggled a little bit in the middle of the round, but that happens and I felt like I managed it pretty well, had some good up‑and‑downs, some good saves.   And, yeah, I really played well those last eight holes.   I hit some really good putts that I thought I made.   I pulled a couple but even that one on 17 I really hit a good putt it just missed.   But I'm pleased where I'm at going into tomorrow. 

Q.   You talk the about saves, you made six birdies today but I think your up‑and‑down for bogey at 10 really kept that round alive?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, that was huge.   Especially that was just such a bone head mistake to miss that left.   I had a 9‑iron in my hands and I can hit anywhere right and I have plenty of green to work with.   But those are things that happen sometimes in this crazy sport of golf that we play.   But, yeah, that was a huge up‑and‑down to save at least one stroke.

Q.   Did you find anything on the back nine that you take into tomorrow?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Not really, honestly.   I just really drove it poorly this week, even the fairways I hit I just haven't hit solid.   That one on 18 was really the first really solid drive I hit this week.   So you I just need to get that figured out, because it's a lot harder to attack this course from the rough than the fairway.   So I need to try to get that worked out and just look forward to the opportunity tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT