NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2014
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your day, 3‑over at the turn and then finished five birdies in the last seven holes. 
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, it was good.   I played well.   I felt like it was pretty similar to yesterday.   I mean, I played really well yesterday on the front, got nothing out of it, and just really stayed patient.   I think that's the key to this place, and I just stayed patient and kind of got it rolling a little bit. 

Q.   What was the problem on your front, your first nine?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I mean, I didn't play that bad.   I made one mental error, I short sided myself on 13, but other than that I really played fine.   I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in, and I just didn't get anything out of it.   I mean, it wasn't‑‑ I didn't really take anything negative out of it.   I played well, I just didn't score well, and I just kind of kept going on the front and made some putts and got it going.

Q.   Did much change front and back nine at all?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   It warmed up a little bit.   The ball is going a little farther.   This morning it was pretty chilly and the ball just wasn't going that far.   But not really too much.   I mean, maybe a little bit firmer, but the course was just great.   It's got a really good firmness to it, the fairways are rolling out, and you've got to really execute on your iron shots into the greens and kind of know where they're landing. 

Q.   Are you just trying to make the cut and then all of a sudden, boom?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Not at all.   You never try to focus on the cut or what the lead is or anything like that.   I'm just trying to play each shot the best I can and trying to birdie the hole that I am on.   Yeah, obviously I was kind of back there for a little bit, but like I said, I didn't feel like I was playing bad, I just kind of made a mental error and kind of got an unfortunate break on 15.   But I just tried to stay patient because this course can kind of eat you alive if you get impatient, so I think that really helped me out today.

Q.   So on the back nine the difference was putts going in?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, I just kept giving myself looks and I made about a 40‑, 45‑footer on 3, and yeah, I made about a 15‑footer on the next hole and chipped it to five feet on the hole after that.   I was playing well, like I said, I just wasn't getting much out of it and just tried to stay patient.

Q.   How far was the chip‑in on 9? 
JUSTIN THOMAS:   40 feet.   I mean, it wasn't‑‑ I judged it well.   I thought if I could just do that it would be all right because I just had to plop it on the green and gravity was going to take over from there, and fortunately it did.

Q.   Were you right, left, behind?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I was left, short left.

Q.   Did you play here when it was the college event?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah.

Q.   How did you do?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I did okay.

Q.   And with you being from northern Kentucky, did you play here much as a junior?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   No, I mean, I'm like three hours away from here, so it's pretty‑‑

Q.   No AJGA‑‑
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, I did.   I played the AJGA here.   I think I may have even played a Plantation event, so it's not like I haven't played here much.   It's nice to play at a place you've played a few times.

Q.   You had a pretty solid number coming into here off the regular season, and I just wondered what was your mindset?   Is it any different this week?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   No, just trying to get myself in contention on Sunday.   I mean, that's been kind of my goal every week for this year, and I've been fortunate enough to do it a couple times, and at a course like this, you don't need to birdie every hole like you do on some of the events where you've got a lot more wedges and softer greens, so it's more about positioning and staying patient and just letting everything fall into place.

Q.   I didn't have a chance to look at your bio before you came in, but this will be your first time on the PGA TOUR next year.   Given the fact you're still playing, you're still competing out here, is it difficult to repress that excitement?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Not really.   I don't know why, maybe it is for everybody, but just for me I feel like it's something that it's going to happen, and I don't know, it's kind of hard to explain, but I think once I get there it'll be a lot cooler than it is right now.   I mean, now I'm just in another event and I have another tournament next week that I'm focused on.   I think honestly I'm not‑‑ I don't want to say happy, because I am extremely happy, but I'm not like ecstatic and really excited like I thought I would be.   Like I said, I'm in the middle of an event, so I that I that's the reason why.

Q.   So you'll have how many weeks off between‑‑
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Two weeks off, but I mean, I have some stuff going on, but I think everybody kind of does.   I'm getting geared up.

Q.   Are you going to take two weeks and celebrate a little bit?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Maybe a couple days, but other than that I'm moving down to Jupiter in like November, so I've got to go down there and maybe do some stuff for that, and most importantly I've got to go down and see the guys on the golf team.   I miss all them. 

Q.   Is there a home game that weekend that you're going?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   No, I don't want to talk about that.   I'm pretty upset about that.   Two weeks we have off and we don't have one home game.   So upset. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
JUSTIN THOMAS:   No, me, Patrick Rodgers and (indiscernible) are renting place down there.   They moved out and we're just stepping right on in. 

Q.   There's some good history in there. 
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, I guess so.

Q.   So the college event you played in once?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah.

Q.   And AJGA, as well?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, I think I just played one other event besides that.   I played the year that Folsey (phon) won.   Remember the week before he didn't know if he was going to turn pro or not, and he played Saturday or Sunday and he's like, I think I'll just play pro, and he won. 

Q.   When Harris won I think he was still amateur, wasn't he?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, him and John Peterson. 

Q.   What happened on 13?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I just pull‑hooked it left.   If I handed you a ball and told you to put it in the worst possible place you could, you'd probably have been close to where I hit it.   Yeah, it just was a little bit of a mental error.   We just didn't really talk it out well enough.

Q.   What did you hit?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I hit a 6‑iron.   It's just a pin you can't get close to, and I felt like if I hit the perfect shot I could, and I got up there and it was just a mental error in the golf swing. 

Q.   Talk about 15. 
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I hit it just right of the fairway and just took a nasty bounce right.   It was going to be in the rough, but it just kicked really hard right into the thicker cut of rough, and I just barely got it out 18 feet and hit a really good putt that just missed.   That was another hole that I didn't really feel like I hit that many bad shots and made a bogey, so it's just kind of whatever. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT