TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2013
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Justin, would you assess your front nine play today?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I mean it was fine.   I just kind of scrambled pretty well.   I missed a couple opportunities, but I mean the front nine was fine. 

Q.   You had some good play from the sand traps saved you, made some pars. 
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah.   Let's see, yeah, I got that up‑and‑down on 4 was nice.   It was a tough bunker shot, and yeah.   I mean it was nice to kind of save that par there.

Q.   Have you put the week in perspective yet, how it was?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Not really.   I really wish I could start today over.   I mean it's awesome.   I'm just so grateful I got the opportunity to be here.   Glad I can make something out of it.   Obviously I wasn't too happy with today, but it's just awesome to be here and play in a PGA TOUR event as an amateur and still in college, I can't complain.

Q.   Talk about 15, Justin.   The crowd, you had that nice chip on to the green. 
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah.   That was really cool.   That was about my highlight of the day right there.
Yeah, I think I hit like two greens on the back and that was one of them.   I mean it was nice to have a putt at birdie for once instead of putting for par.   And yeah, it was really cool.   I really wanted to make that in front of all those people.   And you know, to get a good roar out of it, so that was really cool.

Q.   Justin, what do you kind of take from this week?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I take a lot.   I mean I hit it just awful today.   I hit it horrible.   It's one of the worst ball‑striking rounds I'd say of the year for me.   I hung tough, barring a bad finish, if I birdied one of those last three, I'd shoot even.   And it's good to know that I can play.   I didn't have my best by any means.   I putted really well this week but I didn't hit it good by any means.   And you know, to kind of finish‑‑ I don't know what I am, finished whatever I did is nice.

Q.   What's your focus now, Walker Cup?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah.   My focus now has nothing to do with golf the next two weeks, but yeah, the Walker Cup is huge.   I'm hoping to be playing that in September.

Q.   What's going to be the deciding factor for you, Justin, for you to make the decision to turn pro?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   When I think the time is right.   That's about it.

Q.   (Inaudible) was talking about you yesterday.   First thing he asked is how well you're doing here. 
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah.   Same thing I asked yesterday.

Q.   You asked the same thing about him.   Yeah, he birdied 18 to win by 2?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah.   I saw that.

Q.   He was talking about your team next year and he said he was going to stay in school?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   You're staying in school all the way through, too?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   I don't know.

Q.   Good luck.   First of all, talk to me about playing this week, the week at the tournament. 
JUSTIN THOMAS:   It was awesome.   Any time as an amateur when you're still in college and you get an opportunity to play the best in the world, you gotta cherish it and just enjoy.   I was happy I played well the second and third day.   It was just unbelievable.   I'm so happy and thankful that Travelers and their committee gave me an exemption this week.

Q.   Talk about 15 where you had that nice chip and then you birdied the hole.   Had to be cool, the reaction. 
JUSTIN THOMAS:   It was awesome.   It was definitely ‑‑ I mean, you know, besides the last two days, it was definitely one of my highlights of the week, you know, in front of all those people.   It was cool to kind of get something positive for the day.

Q.   What does it mean to you to be able to play in a PGA TOUR event?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   It means a lot.   You know, these are the best players in the world.   They do this for a living, and that's why I was very fortunate for Nathan Grube and the staff to even give me an exemption.   I can't thank them enough.   This week wouldn't have happened without them, and it's really cool to play against them.

Q.   How do you figure out when to turn pro and how do you decide to become part of the group?
JUSTIN THOMAS:   Just whenever I feel it's right.   I got a lot of thinking to do.   I mean I got a lot of things I still gotta take care of the rest of the summer before I even worry about that, and I think that's what a lot of people are kind of assuming, that I need to know soon.   But I got four tournaments left this summer and the Walker Cup if I make that.   So I gotta worry about those first. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT