WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2009
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MARK STEVENS: I'd like to welcome Justin Thomas from Goshen, Kentucky to the Media Center.
 He's a 16 year old junior player who earned an exemption through the -- winning the Foot Joy Invitational here in Greensboro earlier in the summer.
 Justin, if you start off, just give some comments how you're feeling this week if you're excited.
 JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah. I played on Sunday night, Monday and I played yesterday. It's a lot of fun. Pretty excited. Little nervous, also. It's going to be a lot of fun this week to play with the pros and hopefully do well, also.
 MARK STEVENS: Have you seen your pairing for Thursday and Friday?
 JUSTIN THOMAS: Yes. Tommy Gainey and I don't know, Chris something, I forget his last name.
 MARK STEVENS: Do we have any questions?

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about going home and around your friends and all, what have they been talking to you about playing in the tournament?
 JUSTIN THOMAS: Well, it's hard for high schoolers my age to who don't play golf. Some of the members at my dad's course, it's pretty fun. "So you get to play the Monday qualifier now." 
 They thought I actually get to play like different set of tees than the people in the tournament, but, you know, the people that understand, it's really -- I really appreciate all the good luck and everything we've gotten from them and a lot of the members at my dad's golf course, they've sent a lot of e-mails and it's been nice all support I've gotten.

 Q. Is your family here this week?
 JUSTIN THOMAS: Yes, my mom and dad and my friend.

 Q. Playing with some of the guys this week already, how are you off the tees with them?
 JUSTIN THOMAS: I mean I've only -- I played by myself on Sunday and Monday but I played with Patrick Sheehan yesterday. I'd say I hit it about the same, I guess. 
 Distance doesn't really make too much of a difference at a course like this. It's how your iron play is. I'm sure I'll be a little shorter but I don't think it will be too much of a difference.

 Q. Did Patrick give you any advice?
 JUSTIN THOMAS: I mean I was very fortunate, he was very nice. He talked to me and my family the whole day. He's very nice and I didn't really, not much. I just asked him some questions but, you know, just said relax and have fun. About what everyone has told me.

 Q. When you're out on your Tour and you're coming close to winning, does this type of reward ever come into mind, do you ever think about it when you're practicing or whatever?
 JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah. I think I would be lying if I said it didn't -- especially knowing the course that's nice. I can prepare beforehand. 
 Yeah, I mean it just really hit me like last week when I was practicing, you know, getting ready to go to a Tour event last week. It's just been -- the time has gone by fast from the Foot Joy until now. It's finally here. It's cool to finally be here and play.

 Q. Do you have the opportunity to play the old lined golf courses that much --
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah. I guess so.

 Q. -- rather than the 7500-yard ones?
 JUSTIN THOMAS: Most of the tournaments are about that far. It's pretty much all I've been playing all year is tournament golf. Every once in a while play the little shorter courses.
 MARK STEVENS: Okay. Any other questions? Okay. Thanks a lot Justin good luck this week.
 JUSTIN THOMAS: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT