THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 21, 2020
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Cute little round of 67, not a 59 or a 60, but still you had two good rounds out there so far this week?
 JUSTIN THOMAS:   Yeah, I played a lot better today than I did yesterday.  I finally drove the ball a little better and started hitting my wedges and my irons a little more like I'm accustomed to.
 Still not where I would like them, but they are getting better, getting there, and I just didn't really have anything to show for it.  I felt like I easily could have shot 62 or 63 today.  You know, I didn't.  It's only Friday.  I had some big pars, big putts on 10 and 11 to keep the round going a little bit and to not really make anything and to shoot 4-under is good.
 Q. Certainly is that.  You won the FedExCup title back in 2017, so you know what it kind of takes to push yourself through the FedExCup Playoffs.  Is there a different mind-set coming into this or is it trying to keep what you've been doing well all year long?
 JUSTIN THOMAS:   It's tough but at the end of the day you have to play well in these events.  There's no getting around.  It you have to play well in the Playoff events, the first two, you and need to almost outlast everybody now in Atlanta.
 The format is obviously quite a bit different than it was in years past with the staggered start, but at the end of the day, you know, whoever plays the best in Atlanta is going to be taking home that trophy and that's the goal is to just to continue to get better each and every day, each and every week to where hopefully come Atlanta, I'm playing some really good golf.
 Q. You shot a 59 a couple years ago at the Sony Open in Hawaii the opening round.  Is there a different type of mentality knowing full well that you have a chance to shoot a 59?  It's a massive accomplishment for a golfer.
 JUSTIN THOMAS:   It is.  And I think the hardest part about it is that it's so much pressure because you don't know if and when you're ever going to have a chance again.  I fully feel that I have the firepower and I'm good enough and I'm going to have plenty of chances at 59 over my career but I just don't know if that's true or not.
 I could play really, really great rounds and be 9-under going into 17, 18, instead of 10 or 11.  It is, it's extremely impressive, and I said it a couple years ago, I still think someone is going to shoot a 56 or 57 or 58 on TOUR, whether it's next couple years or ten or 15 years.  We're all getting so much better and especially if you get a place like this with really good greens, and if it's soft, we're pretty good with our distance control and pretty good at golf to where we get it rolling, who knows what it happen.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT