WGC MEXICO CHAMPIONSHIP
February 20, 2020
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Justin, what is it about this course you like so much?
JUSTIN THOMAS: I don't know. It's a different course. Leish and I were talking about it today. I've never played a place -- I felt like today was tough. I've never played this place with this kind of wind. It just doesn't get this windy here this often. But you can go so low, but man, if you're not playing well, you can shoot over par in a heartbeat. It's pretty tough to manage your score, but I feel like we have a pretty good idea how far the ball goes, and that helps.
Q. When you guys teed off there was nothing and then all of a sudden it kicked up. When that happens, how much do you have to change your game plan out there?
JUSTIN THOMAS: You have to change it a lot because usually at altitude the wind doesn't affect it too much, but when you're hitting 6-irons from 240 over water, you're like, well, I hope it -- is it going to affect it, is it not. I hit a sand wedge today, Jimmy and I were posing looking at it, and it landed like 10 yards short of the green. Like it wasn't even close. It took us a little bit to kind of figure out that the ball did not go very far into the wind, but man, it goes downwind.
Q. You've played all over the world. How much do you enjoy representing not only you and your brand but also the PGA TOUR, playing here in Mexico and everywhere else you get to play in front of fans like this?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, it's awesome. Jimmy and I said, it's really cool. I want to meet this kid; I've met him but I don't know him very well. He's followed us around the last two years. He knows Jimmy's name, he yells at Jimmy, he yells at me, he looks like a TOUR pro out there, so I feel like I have some sort of relationship with this little kid just from playing in this tournament. But we get a lot of support from everybody, and it's great that we decided to come here to Mexico City.
Q. How would you assess your round out there today?
JUSTIN THOMAS: I played well. It was a little difficult to start it felt like with this wind. It wasn't something that we're accustomed to out here, all of us. It's usually very, very calm. If anything you'll get maybe a five-mile-an-hour breeze. But took us a little bit to adjust, but when I missed the green I felt like I missed them in good spots and got it up-and-down, made a couple key putts and really felt like I did everything I needed to do.
Q. With the wind, how did that make the course harder?
JUSTIN THOMAS: It's really tough just because I think 7 is a perfect example. For some reason that back tee, seems like no matter where the pin is, it's just a perfect 6-iron, and my 6-iron here goes about 230 to 235 and the pin is in the back today. I think it was 230 -- it was 241 and we had 208 front, and the 7-iron goes 215, and usually at this altitude the wind doesn't do very much, but when it's blowing that much, you're like, is it not, because long is bad and what do we do and I can't come up short because then it goes in the water, and it really was just a guessing game.
I hit a wedge shot on 5 that -- I mean, I flagged it and it landed 10 yards short of the green. It wasn't even close. It took a little bit to get used to, but once we did, I felt like we had somewhat of an idea.
Q. Does it help that you've had some success here, when you have to deal with something like that, it's easier to figure it out a little quicker than maybe guys who haven't played here?
JUSTIN THOMAS: I hope so. That would be an advantage for me. At the end of the day, the most important thing is hitting the ball consistently because if you hit it differently, you hit down on it, you hit it high, hit it low, your yardages are going to change, and I feel like that's something we've done is we just try to stick to just playing golf and our numbers that have worked the last three years.
Q. How much is it to have validation after Genesis to come here and put a good opening round together and put yourself -- seems to be at this tournament again.
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, it's good. It just yet again proves what a fickle game golf is. Two places that are as totally different as they may seem, I feel like are similar golf courses in terms -- if you play well it rewards good golf, but you can shoot over par pretty quickly. You've got the zoysia fairways, the kind of kikuyu type rough, poa annua greens, so you really have to be patient out there, and it's kind of something that I try to learn a little bit from last week. I didn't play that poorly on Friday, I just couldn't get the ball in the hole, so it was nice to see some putts go in.
Q. How do you define patience out here?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Just waiting for your time. I feel like at some point over four days, hopefully a couple times I might reel off four, five, six in a nine-hole span, and you just kind of have to wait for it. There's a decent chance it doesn't happen, but you have so many wedges, and if you have control of your ball you can get it in good spots. I mean, I've had two 62s here, and you can get it going. It's just tough sometimes because of the altitude and playing the yardages correctly and making them on these greens. So many short clubs, you just kind of have to wait for it I feel like.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT