SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 5, 2020
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Given what happened to you on the 72nd hole, how were you able to gather yourself and ultimately pull out this victory?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, for some reason I was supposed to win this week. I got very, very lucky to even have that opportunity.
Q. Can you describe the emotional roller coaster you went through today?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I truly felt like through 15 holes it was one of the best rounds I had played. I was in such control tee to green. I was putting it beautifully, my irons were awesome, and I hit a really good drive on 16, just the wind took it more, and then 18 was just a disaster. I really didn't hit very many good shots on the hole. But it worked out.
Q. You now pick up your 12th PGA TOUR victory. You've had more victories now under the age of 30 than any other active player on TOUR. What does that mean to you?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, it means a lot. A decent amount of them I got fortunate like I did today. That's what happens when you win. Stuff goes your way. Obviously you have to play well and make some putts and hit some shots, but at the end of the day, you need stuff to go your way, and it definitely did today, and it feels great.
Q. Your second Sentry Tournament of Champions.
JUSTIN THOMAS: No, it's not supposed to be that hard. I know it's hard, but I made it about five times as hard as it needed to be. Yeah, I just had that debacle of that 18th hole to even get in a playoff, but I was very fortunate to have a couple putts miss to give myself a chance.
Q. Your second win of the season. You're at the top of the FedExCup points list. You've won here before. How important was it to win again?
JUSTIN THOMAS: I don't know if it's necessarily important. It just helps and it's nice. It's another one down. I want to keep building on that, and I feel like I'm really just trying to get better every year, and we're improving in some of the right areas.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT