TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2019
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You kept battling and kept yourself in position to win this championship.
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, definitely played well enough to win. Yeah, I mean, I'm bummed to not have a little better chance today, but I fought as hard as I could. That's really all I can ask for. Yeah, I was glad to finish the last couple weeks to salvage somewhat of a good year out of it.
Q. How about the season overall, which included that win in a playoff event, as well?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, it definitely wasn't a great year by any means, but I won, so that made it a good year. But played solid, very consistent; just not as many wins and not as many great finishes as I would like. But I feel like, again, really, really close to reeling off some more wins and playing really well. Yeah, again, I would have liked to have a couple more out there and over the course of the week. It's unbelievable how many I let go, but that's golf.
Q. Not quite the week you were probably hoping for coming in, but you did tie your low round today, and you did lead the field in strokes gained approaching the green. What do you take away from the week?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I feel like I, in bits and pieces, played well enough to win this week, or at least have a little better chance. It's always something in golf. When you have one part of your game, it seems like the other isn't there. And, yeah, it's unfortunate, just couldn't put all the pieces together this week. But I'm proud of how I fought to at least salvage a decent year out of it.
Q. How do you feel about now the staggered scoring system? You've gone through it as a FedExCup No. 1 coming into the week. It kept you in the tournament.
JUSTIN THOMAS: It did, but I personally like when everyone starts the same. It was really weird and hard teeing off on Thursday ahead of everybody. I mean, I don't know how everybody else feels, but I had a pretty hard time playing the normal way that I play. I don't know, it's hard to just imagine everybody starts at zero when you don't. So that was tough.
But that being said, yeah, it was nice to play well enough to put myself there so that I could get away with some of the bad stuff I did this week, putting me hopefully in the top three.
Q. What are you going to do in the coming weeks, this fall?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Take some time away for the time being. Again, I feel like I'm doing a lot of great stuff or a lot of the right things, so I don't need to get too far removed from it so I keep some of the good habits and hopefully sharpen up on some of the stuff we need to. But I'm pretty excited to put the clubs up and maybe take a couple vacations and hang out with some friends.
Q. (No microphone).
JUSTIN THOMAS: In that sense it was great, but then again, after me, it was Hideki at 6-under. I think you have -- the format creates the potential chance, especially with how hard it played this week, to really separate the field. But then again, if those four guys -- or I guess five guys play a little bit worse, then it's a massive jam-packed leaderboard going into Sunday. It was definitely weird to start the week.
Q. How would you assess your week overall?
JUSTIN THOMAS: A little frustrating. I really feel like I did -- my short game was unbelievable this week. My chipping was. Saved a lot of shots. My iron play was very, very sub-par for my standard and how I've hit it the entire year. So that's frustrating in the week when I need it, and I felt like I drove the ball pretty well. The stats may not show it, but I had a lot of drives that were just off the edge of the fairway and in the rough, and that's at least a half a shot difference out here.
Just really had a couple freakish, bizarre, stupid mistakes this week. I made a double on Thursday with a pitching wedge in my hand on a par-3, and then I made a 7 this morning with a 9-iron in the middle of the fairway. I mean, that's five, six strokes, and could potentially cost me the FedExCup. That sucks when I put it that way, but I fought hard. I gave it all I had, and that's all I can ask for.
Q. Player of the Year voting starts this week. I was curious because of Brooks' run to the majors, do you think he's going to be the frontrunner? Does Rory's winning impact your voting decision at all?
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I think it just depends on how everybody views the voting. I would -- consistently, Rory has outplayed Brooks by a mile in how he's done the entire year. It's unbelievable how he's played. But the most important thing is wins and playing great in the big events, and nobody has done that better than Brooks. I don't know how you don't give Brooks the Player of the Year with three wins and a major and a WGC and top four in every major. That's pretty strong.
I don't know, I'm bummed I'm not in the consideration. I need to play a little better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT