TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2019
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Justin, talk about today. Did the rain delay have an effect on that second nine, and do you kind of feel like you have a lot of gas left in the tank for the rest of the week?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I would hopefully feel like I have a lot of gas left. I'm only halfway through the event. It would be hard for me to say that it didn't kind of stop my momentum because I was playing really flawlessly, I felt like, that front nine.   
I didn't play that poorly on the front nine, just had -- you know, the course was playing a little different after that delay. I hit a great wedge into 13, that, being a little softer, didn't quite skip up there. That putt could have easily gone in on 15. Hit the putt a little softer on 16, I make it. Bad mistake on 17, and I hit a great putt on 18 that didn't go in.   
I just -- for as much as I feel like I got out of or scored well on the front nine, just nothing kind of got going on the back nine.   
 Q.  You said earlier in the week it felt a little strange starting at 10 under with the way the scoring was. Did that change from the 1st tee yesterday, or did you feel like you played your way into a normal tournament?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, today felt normal. Yesterday was weird. I told my dad that. It's just so odd looking over and seeing 10 under. I mean, I don't care who you are, I have a hard time believing that anybody is going to play different. I would think everybody is going to play differently when they start the tournament with the lead versus everyone being tied.   
I mean, I thought it was going to be easy for me to just play a tournament. It wasn't. At least for me it wasn't. I thought it was difficult to stay aggressive, but then again, I wasn't driving it very well, so I couldn't be aggressive.   
I don't know, it was odd, but today definitely felt more normal. It felt like I was just trying to build a lead as opposed to yesterday, it was just kind of a little harder to get it going.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your game being possibly in the final or second-to-last group like now versus normally where you change over 36 holes? Does that make sense?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, it doesn't feel any different if that's what you're asking. I really feel like I'm playing really well still. I hit a couple of poor putts on the front nine that I felt like I could have shot 4 or 5 under on the front nine, and had some good par saves on the back and then kind of let a couple get away.   
You know, over the course of 72 holes, that's going to happen. If I can just tighten everything up just a little bit and drive it and play like I did on the front nine, I feel like I have a great chance to win.   
 Q.  Justin, just sum up how you're feeling and your assessment of your play.  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I feel fine. I feel like I have a good chance. I'm in a good spot. It's anybody's golf tournament. You just have to go out and get it at that point.   
 Q.  And with the 90-minute delay, talk about how that can interrupt your rhythm, how it affects your mentality, and your frustration.  
JUSTIN THOMAS: It doesn't -- I didn't get frustrated. It didn't affect my mentality. It just affected my rhythm. I was going along really well and playing pretty well. It's not that I didn't play well when I came back. I hit plenty of good shots. I hit more loose shots, and obviously not making any birdies on the back nine, I think speaks for itself.   
 Q.  You hit six fairways on the front. What did you do differently with your drive when you had to do it?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I tried to be a little shorter at the top, not get as long with my back swing. I think, when it gets this hot and you get this loose, it's pretty easy for it to creep back there, at least for me.   
But I didn't drive it near as bad as my stats showed yesterday. I hit a lot of really good drives there, kind of like on 18 where I missed the fairway by a foot. That's the difference between me being able to hit a 4 iron and trying to make a 3 and then I'm just trying to get it over the water. So that's a big difference at East Lake.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT