ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 11, 2019
Justin Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  An opening round of 67, 4-under par.  Give us an assessment of your play today?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I thought I played well.  I mean, bogey on 8 was not a very good bogey, but I mean, I would think it's going to be one of the harder holes today.  So it's not like that -- didn't kill me too much, but the bogey on 12, that was a bad one, laying up with a 4-iron and hitting in the bunker.   
Other than that, I felt I really played well.  I played the ball well.  Even the short one I missed on 6, I guess it was, I hit a good putt.  I just kind of veered off of some stuff on the green but I felt like I drove the ball well, hit irons well and made some putts.   
 Q.  What about this golf course, your first time playing it competitively?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, it's good.  It's about as benign as you can get it right now.  It's soft.  It's in good shape.  Not really much wind.  We had a little bit of wind and rain to start, but other than that, it's about as easy as you can play this place.   
 Q.  What do you like particularly about playing links?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I just like the creativity you have to have.  It's not like America where sometimes it's kind of see pin, hit pin, and whatever your yardage is, relying on that and it's not going to roll too far.   
Here, not necessarily this week, but I remember a little bit last year at Carnoustie how firm it was.  You had to land it -- you're hitting irons just to stay short of 360 run-outs and stuff like that.  You have to sometimes use slopes to get close to holes and sometimes all you can do is hit it to 30 and 40 feet.  I think it's taken me a little bit to kind of realise that, and having to kind of pick your spots.  Obviously the weather is a whole other story in what you can get, but it's fun golf over here, and the fans are so great always to play in front of.   
 Q.  If you could just talk us through your reflections on that round there, looked like you doubled your birdies on the back nine?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Yeah, I played well.  Just was a solid day.  I drove the ball well.  I had a couple loose shots here and there, but overall, I felt I was in very good control of my game, and finally made some putts, which has kind of been the key for me lately.   
 Q.  What do you enjoy about the different demands on a links course like here?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: Well, here, it's soft, as much rain as we've gotten and kind of the modern style of links it is.  It isn't near as linksy as a lot of courses over here but it still is.  You still have to have the thought of landing it short and running it up and using the contours sometimes.  But it's just a lot different than the style in America where you know today we didn't have really any wind, but you know, usually have a lot of wind and you have to flight the ball down and kind of get on the ground as quick as you can.  It's just a whole other style of golf.   
 Q.  How did you find yourself adapting your shots today?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I mean, I didn't have to much.  It was very, very benign out there.  Not much wind.  It's soft.  The ball is not really rolling out that far.  We had a little bit of rain and a little bit of wind to start but most of the day, it was about as easy as you could play this place.   
 Q.  And the positives that you can then take into tomorrow?  
JUSTIN THOMAS: I mean, I played well.  Shot 4-under.  I would think if I shoot four of those, I have a pretty good chance.  Any time you shoot 4-under, doesn't matter how easy or how hard the course is, it's a good round.  Obviously I could have shot lower.  It was a good par save on 9 to finish my round, go tighten things up on the range and see what we can do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT