CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: FLORIDA VS MICHIGAN
December 27, 2018
Donovan Peoples-Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DONOVAN PEOPLES-JONES: I have to keep working, work on things I'm not as good at, raise the level of my play and everyone else's play.
Q. To that note, how good can this receiving corps, especially with Shea coming back, how good can it be next year?
DONOVAN PEOPLES-JONES: It can be very good.  We just have to work and take ownership and get it done.
Q. What was your reaction when Shea said that he was coming back?
DONOVAN PEOPLES-JONES: I was excited.  I don't think it was a -- as a big deal to everyone else as it was to me.  I knew that we were focused on this game no matter what.  Any announcement that he would have to make would come after the game.  But yeah, I was definitely excited.  Definitely excited to get another year with him.
You saw what he did for this team, for the offense.  You definitely need a player like that around you and I definitely want to play with a player like him.
Q. What's your relationship like with Coach McDaniels?
DONOVAN PEOPLES-JONES: I really like Coach McDaniels.  He really had a -- he played a big part all season.  I don't know if too many people knew that, but he played a big part.
Just like Coach Mac.  Coach Mac was the head guy, but Coach McDaniels was always in our ears and helping us with techniques and fundamentals.  His role is just expanding now, and I'm excited to see what I can learn from him, and how he can help me.
Q. Did you notice this season how much your blocking improved?  Has that kind of stood out to you on film?
DONOVAN PEOPLES-JONES: A couple blocks, yeah.  I still want to, you know, get them all, see myself as a team player.  The O-line is blocking for me.  I wish the O-line could catch a route and I could block for them.
They give Shea enough time to deliver his passes, even with the running backs in their protection.  They're helping me get open.  So, you know, anything I can do to help them, help anyone else on the team, I'm willing to do.
Q. How much do you think you've evolved since being the star that you were coming out of high school, not only as a player, but as a person.
DONOVAN PEOPLES-JONES: I think I'm just being -- becoming more patient, becoming more understanding of different situations and how to attack it.  Just everything that comes with being older.  I'm still 19 so yeah.
Q. Can you talk about the just chemistry that you guys have in the receiver room?  I know you and Tarik have always been tight.  Same goes for Nico.  Just the way that you guys gel seems like something you don't see.
DONOVAN PEOPLES-JONES: Yeah, I mean, those guys are just like me.  They're a little bit taller than me.  Nico is.  I'm not counting Tarik.  But it's just like two brothers you have, you know.  You all like similar things.  You all like to do similar things so you can always find us around each other.  Whatever it be.  We usually share the same thoughts on a lot of things.  We're all working to get better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT