U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2018
Chun An Yu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does it feel to be back in the U.S. Amateur and playing well?  
CHUN AN YU: It's really good.  Like really enjoy being here, especially in Pebble Beach and Spyglass.  This golf course is just really awesome.   
 Q.  I know you play in the Pac-12 conference, but have you ever played here before?  
CHUN AN YU: No, it was my first time, so really enjoyed it.   
 Q.  How did you feel you played today?  
CHUN AN YU: I feel good.  I feel really good.  I hit a lot of fairways and greens, so I think that's a key for this course and Pebble Beach, and that's what I'll try to do tomorrow, and just going to keep going.   
 Q.  You started on 10 and you were even when you made the turn, and then you birdied the first hole.  How did you do that?  
CHUN AN YU: I actually hit the best shot, my tee shot, the second shot, and then my third shot was really good, too, and then it's in like the deep shot, and I chipped it too hard but it hit the pin and went in.   
 Q.  How long do you think it was?  
CHUN AN YU: Maybe it would be like 15 feet.   
 Q.  If it hadn't hit the flag, what would have happened?  
CHUN AN YU: Yeah, went past like 15 feet.  So yeah, pretty lucky.   
 Q.  And then you birdied the other par-5, No. 7?  
CHUN AN YU: Yeah, that one was pretty lucky, too.  The second shot I had like 210 yards, and then I kind of pulled it, so it went a little left than I thought.  It hit like a slope and kicked like over the water, but it stayed on.  I still had a chance to make birdie, and I chipped pretty good, so I made birdie.   
 Q.  How close was that chip?  
CHUN AN YU: Like 10 feet.  Yeah, like 10 feet.   
 Q.  What kind of wedge did you use?  
CHUN AN YU: 58.   
 Q.  What you did last year, how much confidence does that give you this time around?  
CHUN AN YU: Like last year, I just know I can play like in the final match, so I just tried to do the best that I can.  It definitely gave me a lot of confidence.  Yeah, just try and do my best, and hopefully I can do better this year.   
 Q.  Just making the quarterfinals last year, did that change the way you look at yourself as a golfer?  
CHUN AN YU: No.  Every time I just wanted to do my best, and whatever the result is.  So I just do the best I can and not think about the result that much.  Yeah, that's what I always think and want to be.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT