ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2018
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J. CHARDY/T. Berdych
7-6, 7-6, 1-6, 5-7, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Can you tell us about this match, two times, last night and then because of the rain you had to come back today?
JEREMY CHARDY: Yes, well, I feel that I played rather well throughout.  Yesterday I played two good sets.  I came back with two sets, and I had five break points in the first game when I came back, and things didn't go well.
I could win all the games and I didn't.  He came back two sets all, but then I stayed on and I managed to look for the victory and to attack more, be more aggressive in the fifth set, and that's why I'm really happy.
Q. You were talking about the break points at the end of the fourth set.  You converted 2 out of 16.
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, I think when I came back, the first break points I had I didn't go for them.  I wasn't aggressive enough.  It's probably the reason why I didn't do it, and I think I wasn't aggressive enough in the important moments, but in the third I managed to change things and to seize the game in my hands and to look for victory.
Q. How do you sleep when you go to bed and you are leading by two sets?  Do you have confidence or are you stressed?
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, you sleep better when you have two sets for you than when you've dropped two sets.
But when I came back, I knew I might play five sets and I remained focused on my game.  I managed to continue in the same way.  Even though I had won the first two sets, I knew it was difficult, and I knew he was going to come back today wanting to be more aggressive.  And that's what he did.  He had nothing to lose.
I was leading two sets to zero, and he knew if he didn't seize the opportunity, he had no possibility.
So I knew it was going to be difficult.  It was, but I managed to get out of it, and I'm happy about the way I won in the end.
Q. In view of the situation, the fact that you're in Roland Garros, and the identity of your opponent, is this one of your best victories?
JEREMY CHARDY: Yes, and it's also the first time I'm winning on the center court.  It's great to win in the French Open against a player like Berdych.  He's a great player, and you need to play well to win that kind of match.  I played well today, and I'm happy.
Q. The next round you're going to play Pierre-Hugues, with whom you practice.  How is it going to go?
JEREMY CHARDY: I'm going to celebrate my victory today and enjoy it, and then I will continue.  I'm going to play Pierre-Hugues, but I have an opportunity to win.  It's up to me to be focused on my game, and to rely on my victory of today.
It's good for my self-confidence.  I played in the right way along the five sets, so I have to hoard this trust and continue tomorrow.
Q. Twice two hours, plus a double, how do you feel?
JEREMY CHARDY: I feel good, but I'm just very cold because I'm just out of the ice bath.  I get the impression it's very cold in the room, but that's all.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT