ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 30, 2017
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. CHARDY/G. Simon   
6-3, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please, in French.   
 Q.  Can you talk about this victory, this straightforward victory against Gilles.  
JEREMY CHARDY: We were both very tense in the beginning of the match and little by little I was able to play better.  The end of the first set was tough, but I played very well at 5-3.   
And in the second set I don't know why he was not as intense.  He really dropped his game in the second set.  I don't know what happened to him, and that's it.   
 Q.  There's a rumor saying that Dominic Thiem was not going to play here and this allowed you to be in the main draw.  Did you hear about that?  
JEREMY CHARDY: No.  I'm just hearing that when you tell me now.   
 Q.  Did you come directly from Brest by car at the last minute?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Yes, because when I lost my match in Brest there were no more planes or trains and then next day there were not either, and I was afraid to be late for my match.   
We drove for six hours.  I didn't know Brest was so far from Paris.  I think they should build a highway.  It would be quicker.   
 Q.  At the end of the season, it's difficult to win several matches back to back.  How is it for you?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, I didn't play for two months so for me it's not that difficult.  When I started playing, there was my marriage so I was not ready when I played in China.   
So any match I can win in the end of the season now is good for me.  I'm very happy.  I'm motivated.  Other players might be tired but I'm very eager and I will be very happy if I can win more matches.   
 Q.  This means your honeymoon is not planned according to your results here?  
JEREMY CHARDY: No, not at all.   
 Q.  Do you have plans to go to Lille even if you're not on the team?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Whatever happens I'm going to.  I want to go there.  It's a beautiful event.  It's an important moment for French tennis.  I really hope we're going to win.   
 Q.  And there will be a trophy if you win?  
JEREMY CHARDY: That would be a bonus, but it's been a long time.  Everybody is waiting for our team to win it.  And we have an opportunity there, we are playing home, and I hope it's going to be a great celebration.   
 Q.  Talking about the Davis Cup, can you talk about the role of the fifth player?  What do you do in that position?  
JEREMY CHARDY: At the beginning there's not really a fifth player until the Thursday at least.  Sometimes the captain might have his team in mind, but when you come to the practice week, you have to play your best because any player can be injured or sick.  So you have to prepare as if you were going to play.  And I think if you play well, also it's good for the other players, good practice.   
Now, once the team is appointed then the fifth player has not much to do.  He's just there in the group.  The fifth player is less important then.   
But if you play during the whole preparation week, if you're part of the group, part of the team, you do everything with all the other players so you really feel you're part of the team and you want the team to win.   
So even if afterwards your role is not as important after the Thursday, it's good to be there anyway.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT