MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 19, 2017
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. CILIC/J. Chardy
6-3, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. You were not lucky because Cilic was very good today.
JEREMY CHARDY: Yes, he played a very good match.  But I also didn't serve well.  During the whole match, I was not able to serve.  My back was hurting, especially when I was serving.  When you don't serve well against a player like him, it becomes very difficult.
He's very solid from the baseline.  There's nothing much more to say.  I started having pain in my back last night after my match.  During the whole match here, I couldn't serve.  It was hurting too.  I was serving slowly.
I missed many times.  I was putting no effect into the ball.  I was in a dangerous position for every service game that I had.
I had no rest since Miami, so I believe I'm tired also.
Q. What are you going to do now?
JEREMY CHARDY: I'm going to the academy to practice, then I'll go to Barcelona.  I hope I'll be able to play there.  After that, I will play Munich, Aix-en-Provence, Bordeaux and the French Open.  I will play the French Open, too.
Q. A question about the French Open.  Did you see, not play, but see a match on TV or in the stands that you liked, that you remember?
JEREMY CHARDY: I'm thinking about the Kuerten match in the final.  I don't remember which year it was.  It might be 1997.  It was the first time I was watching the French Open final.
I had won the tickets because I won a tournament of the league.  I was lucky to be able to watch that match.  It is difficult to forget that.
Once I beat one of Cilic's former coaches.  This is something also that I remember.  You never forget your first Grand Slams.  At that time I was mainly playing challengers.  It was the first time I was playing such a good player in the French Open.  I was down two sets to love, playing five sets.  At this moment in my career, it was difficult to do better than that.
During the same week, I was round of 16 in the French Open.  I became top 100.  You don't forget that.  It was a beautiful moment in my career.  I will always remember it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT