MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2017
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. CHARDY/B. Coric   
7-6, 3-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  What about the first round?  
JEREMY CHARDY: It was a very tough first round.  He plays very well on clay.  I feel very good on this clay.  I was very frustrated because in the beginning I had many breakpoints, and I didn't make any.  I had to wait until the third set to win a breakpoint.   
I'm very happy I was able to win that match at the end.   
 Q.  There was some nervousness there?  
JEREMY CHARDY: I had more opportunities than he did.  I was confident because I just won a title.  When you do that, you want to continue winning.  You don't want to stop.  You don't want to lose.   
I played my match.  I believe if I had won those breakpoints, the score would have been different.  Maybe we wouldn't have played a third set.   
But the main thing is to win.   
 Q.  Davis Cup helped you a lot?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Davis Cup was very good for me mentally already.  I feel better on the court.  Every win I can get, the better.   
I had tough moments when I was not feeling good on the court.  Now that everything is good, I want to take advantage of it.  I'm really enjoying my matches, especially when I win.   
In Marrakesh, it was special conditions.  It was tough.  The courts the were not great.  It's not the best play I've seen.  But the tournament was nice.  I played two good matches.  I lost against Kohlschreiber.  It was a strange match.  When I started the match, I felt very tired.  I had stiff muscles.  I lost 6-Love in a very short time.   
As soon as I was able to break him, suddenly he didn't fight back.  He started taking many risks.  In the third set, we played a good set.  In the end, he was just a bit stronger than I was.  But it still was a good match.   
Now physically I feel a lot better.  It changes a lot.  I have absolutely no problems playing three sets.  I know physically I'm not going to give up, so this takes away some pressure.   
 Q.  What about your next round?  
JEREMY CHARDY: I played him in Miami.  I beat him there.  I played a good match.  This time will be different.  He will want revenge.  It's going to be a complicated match, I believe.   
But I played well today.  I'm going to focus on my game and try to find solutions to win once again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT