ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2016
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/J. Chardy   
6-4, 6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Do you feel a very strong, powerful impact when you play against someone like Stan?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, what's sure is that physically it's difficult, and his ball was really heavy, already to send it back it's tough because the ball is heavy.  And then in the game, when I missed my first, the second, for the second one he was already there.  It's very difficult to control the ball if you play it short.   
I think he did a really good game.  He was just much better than I was.  So well done to him.  I fought to the end, and then of course it's tough.  He was pushing me back.  I couldn't really get onto the court, and he played really long balls.   
It was a really tough match for me.  I didn't think he was going to be playing so well.  But then it's obviously tough to be disappointed, because I think I did a good game.  But he was just better.   
 Q.  Is that where you think you were best?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Yes, by far, that's what I was telling my coach in the locker room.  Every time I played against him I thought he was really good.  Even when I was returning the balls, he likes to play these cross shots.  But there was no part of the game where I felt that he wasn't in control.  I had to serve as best as I could all the way, and that was tough.   
 Q.  You unbreak him at 5-4 at one point.  You could have been 6-5.  Why didn't you push him in the tiebreak?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Yeah, sure.  I unbreak.  It could have been 6-5, and then, you know, anything can happen in a tiebreak.   
Sure, I can win the set, but then if you look at the match as a whole, he was just stronger than I was through and through.   
So of course it's always tough to finish.  I played okay.  Then of course I don't really have any regrets about this match.  I think he was just better than I was.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT