ROLAND GARROS
May 23, 2016
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. CHARDY/L. Mayer   
6-4, 3-6, 6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  You made it in the end, but it was a complicated match.  
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, I started pretty good.  Then after that I think I made things difficult for myself.  There were two games where there were three doubles.  I kind of lost my pace, so he felt more confident and played better.  Then there was a moment when he played really bad and I tried to stay quiet, calm, and focused, and I managed to reach a tipping point again.   
So I'm very happy with the match.   
 Q.  That's when you break him 4-3 where you shout out for joy and it seems that you took over again.  
JEREMY CHARDY: Yeah, I had a break.  I was break late, and it was important there for both of us.  I did what needed to be done, and then I rebreak it to reach 6-4.  I wasn't planning on that, but breaking and then coming back allowed me to take a breather.  And then I think the final set was really good for me all the way.   
 Q.  In terms of the game conditions, heavy clay?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Yeah, definitely heavier than usual.  It has rained a lot.  But then again, we both have the same conditions, but it's true that if it was a little warmer and if the ball bounced a little better, it would have been better.   
So I hope the rain's going to stop and it will be better for everyone, a bit of sunshine for the audience and for the players.   
 Q.  You were talking to your coach when you came off the court, and he said, Even if the start of the season was not glorious, Jeremy knows that if you come here, there is a kind of added trust or perhaps added confidence that boosts your level of play during the French Open.  Of course he would love to see that on every tournament.  But do you feel this is kind of a special appointment and you forget an early season that wasn't all that good?  
JEREMY CHARDY: It's true.  When you come here you want to play really well, especially when you're preparing for it.  I feel great physically.  I feel that I'm playing well.  I played a pretty robust match today.  Mayer is a pretty good player.  We're the same age.  I have known him for a while.   
It was a dangerous match, and I'm happy that I came out this way and full of energy for the next round.   
 Q.  Yeah, the next round is a young Czech player.  Do you know him?  
JEREMY CHARDY: No, no idea how he plays.  Oh, I don't know against who I play, I  never look at the charts.  So I don't even know who this guy is.  Well, I will just wait and see, won't I?  I can't say anything about him.  I mean, if no one knows his name...   
Well, there you are.  If anyone has any tips, they're more than welcome.  (Laughter.)   
I hadn't looked at the names posted, but I'm sure my coach will find the right info for me.   
 Q.  In our media, we take questions from fans.  Someone found that in Boeil-Bezing, which is outside Pau, there is someone who had a kind of hotel that was, whose owner's name was you.  
JEREMY CHARDY: Yes, it was me, but I'm not in charge anymore.  Does anyone want to come on vacation there?  There's not much to do, but if you like to eat and drink well, I know everyone in the village.  So we can throw a party if you like (laughter).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT