ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 31, 2019
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. GARIN/J. Chardy   
6-7, 6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  It must have been hard to go back on court. What is your feeling after that singles match? It was a tight match. There were three match points. It was hard?  
JEREMY CHARDY: It's always hard. Already when you lose, you're sad, but with game points it's even harder. I had three in a row, actually. It's the second time that I lose against him with game points. It's hard to end this season on that note.   
But I want to be positive. I'm disappointed that the season ends, because I was feeling that I was playing better these last weeks. Everything is turning up regarding my game level. I would have liked to have a few more tournaments under my belt.   
I'm going to go on holiday now. I will try not to think about tennis for some time. And the fact that I ended this way, this gives me the will to fight hard and to start on a strong note for the next season.   
I hope that next year will be a beautiful year. It will be a beautiful year because I will have a child.   
But as far as tennis is concerned, I have worked hard throughout the year. I feel better on court, and I think that you can see it by the way I play.   
I don't hide it. Tonight was hard. Tomorrow I still have a doubles match, but it's true that it's not easy for me to focus on the doubles now.   
 Q.  When the history repeats itself, you have several tiebreaks even in two-set matches, do you feel like having a ghost coming up over and over again, or is each match different?  
JEREMY CHARDY: When you have game points, when you're losing at 6-3, it means that you have done good things because you have opportunities to win the match. Sometimes you play not well, but sometimes your opponent plays very well. It's not always up to you.   
As far as this match is concerned, I saved four break points at 5-All. I could have wrapped up the match, and then he started the tiebreak well. I managed to change the trend.   
I didn't digest that, I have to say. Even if the match is over now for many hours, I still haven't digested it. Now I won't think about it anymore. But when you lose such tight matches -- you know, I won against Medvedev. I saved a lot of break points, and that enabled me to win the match. Sometimes it goes in my favor and sometimes it doesn't.   
 Q.  You were talking about these match points in Houston. It was amazing. He was saving five match points. I hope that it's not going to be forever like this.  
JEREMY CHARDY: I did win against him in the meantime, I would have say. It's true that there were five game points in Houston. I'm his sponsor, I have to say. (Laughing.) He can put my name on his sleeve.   
 Q.  Regarding these five game points where you were losing 7-6 in the third set, did you have flashbacks? Did you think about it?  
JEREMY CHARDY: When he saved three of them and I went back to 6-6, yes, it did pop in.   
If you're watching them, it's always easier with some hindsight. You can say, I could have done this and that. You want to win. You do whatever you think is best.   
He played well too. The only thing is, I don't think I did an outstanding performance today. I was more nervous. I was tired physically. My footwork was of less quality. I was more tense.   
I started off not that well. I didn't play that well and I never found my rhythm. Then I had an opportunity to win, but... I could have seized opportunities. I could have done things better.   
 Q.  How do you quantify Cedric's words? It's hard to be in a duo which already exists, because you were already with James. Have you decided to work together this winter? Are you going to stay a trio?  
JEREMY CHARDY: I think they get along very well, so that's already a very good point. When we started off, they had done work together for some weeks, and it was important for me that they should get along well.   
They are two wonderful people. It's always easier for me to work with them. It's hard when you are several people. It's when the ego comes in.   
But they always talk together about what we're going to work on, what we're going to focus on. They speak along the same lines and it's wonderful for me. This winter we're going to work, the three of us, this winter and next year together. We're going to do the preseason together.   
 Q.  You said that it was difficult to focus on the doubles, but don't you have a small chance to do the Masters with Fabrice?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, the doubles is cool. I love playing with my buddy. Even if I play well in doubles, that's not my first goal.   
This being said, we could be qualified and, if such is the case, then it would be wonderful. We should win maybe. It's not that hard. There's only one option. It's easier.   
My priority was to win today and to feel good on court for him. The fact that it's my best friend is easy. We haven't talked until we were on court because he knew that he shouldn't talk to me.   
But it's also my job because, when I'm on court, I want to win. I want to win for him. Tomorrow we have a nice match playing against Nico and Pierre-Hugues. We have nothing to lose. I hope that we will win. If we do and we qualify for the masters, it would be wonderful because it would be at home.   
This being said, it's always a nice challenge when you have the opportunity to win and qualify for the Masters. I would be delighted to go, of course.   
I could have played more tournaments throughout the year if that had really been my objective. I didn't play the grass season. I didn't play this summer. I only played two Masters, and I haven't played -- I don't have a lot of doubles matches under my belt.   
I do like to play in doubles but this is not my priority. Next year, I will certainly not play a lot of doubles matches.   
 Q.  A few words on Garin. He's not known by the public. He's playing very well. He doesn't have a lot of weaknesses or huge assets. How would you qualify that player? I'm sure you don't want to talk about him.  
JEREMY CHARDY: I don't like him, first of all, (laughing) and even less now.   
His footwork is quite good. His best asset is the cross-court shot while running. He's quite smart on court. He's quite robust. He can play flat strokes. He doesn't give away a lot of points. He doesn't give a lot of freebies. But there's nothing exceptional, as you said. (Smiling.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT