BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 4, 2015
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 K. NISHIKORI/J. Chardy
  7‑6, 6‑7, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
   
 Q. Do you have many regrets?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Regrets? No. I believe I played a good match from the beginning to the end. I was able to get into the match very early. I believe I played a good match.   
But in the third set I broke down, so to speak. Physically it was tough. He played a lot better than I did in the third set. He was stronger than me.   
But I'm very happy to end this season playing a good match like this one, although I would have preferred to win, of course. So for me now the season is over and I can rest.   
   
 Q. The third set maybe is a consequence of the whole season, the tiredness?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Yes, it's always more difficult at the end of the year, but there was a lot of intensity during the whole match. That's the way it is.   
He played a good match also from the beginning to the end. He broke me, which put me in a difficult situation. And it was tough for me because he broke me again, and then I knew I wasn't going to be able to win.  
   
 Q. How did you find Nishikori? It seems that at the end of the year, he's not as sharp, but he played well in that match. Where do you think he is exactly as far as his level is concerned?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, he hasn't played for a while, so I'm sure he tried to prepare. He only has this tournament and the Masters to play, and he's trying to finish up this season playing well, of course.   
I think from the baseline he plays still very well. But I was trying not to get into long rallies against him, because otherwise he's a lot better than me. I would be in trouble. So I was trying to hit a lot of slices with my backhand in order to disturb him. Also I took some risks with my forehand because I wanted to have him play badly.   
   
 Q. He's one of the best players in the world. He has one of the best backhands in the world. What do you think?  
JEREMY CHARDY: I would like to have his backhand, that's for sure. Every time he is on the ball, he hits it well. He never makes a mistake. In that match here, he never missed. As soon as he's playing his crosscourt backhand, he never misses. He's very solid. And also, he returns well.   
   
 Q. So talking about the backhand, against Richard, are we going to have crosscourt backhands during the whole match?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Right. But for people who like tennis, they will enjoy that. Topspin, one‑handed backhand, yes, I think the crosscourt backhands will be beautiful to watch. And both of them really use that shot, the crosscourt backhand.   
Novak, Stan are extremely solid with that. And they don't always try to hit a winner when you play against all those players. You know, they are going to have you run around, and they can do everything else also, not just the backhand.   
So I think that match will be a good fight. And the one who will win the crosscourt exchanges or rallies will win the match.   
   
 Q. You often came close to the top 20, but you never made it. Is it a difficult thing to do?  
JEREMY CHARDY: I know. I'm going to try to work even more to achieve this. I'm going to try to overcome my weaknesses and improve my strong points because I know that it is with those that I'm winning my matches.   
So I need to find the right balance between improving the weaknesses and working also on my strong shots. I have a good team, and we're going to try to work together to have better results next year.  
   
 Q. How are you going to prepare for the new season? What is your schedule from now on?  
JEREMY CHARDY: I just don't know. My priority is to go on holidays, vacations now. After? I don't really know what I'm going to do. I will go to the academy, for sure.   
Also, I have my coach and my physio who are with me here who are going to travel with me all year round next year, and I have my physical preparation from the academy. So we are all together going to talk and see what is the best schedule for me next year.   
So I don't know right now, but I am sure it's going to be well planned. Don't worry.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT