COUPE ROGERS
August 15, 2015
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Chardy
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please. 

Q. What was the challenge for you going from facing two super tall players to the challenge that Djokovic places for you? Does that make it more difficult for you? In general, what makes Novak so difficult to play against? 
JEREMY CHARDY: Yeah, I mean, Novak for me at the moment is the best. Every time I play against him I have a lot of problem. 
He returning really well. Defense, I mean, he has ball nobody can read them. So it's really difficult to play against him, to make the choice. Sometimes you go too much. He make you make a difficult choice all the time. 
Maybe we don't see it, but he serve really well. During the whole match I cannot see where he was serving. It was really tough to return. 
Play against best player anytime, I'm really happy to play against them, it's a good challenge. Every time if you win or lose, you learn a lot about your game. It helped me a lot to improve my game. 

Q. Yesterday you said you would try something new this time against Novak. What did you try?
JEREMY CHARDY: Yeah, I wanted to try, but it was not easy (smiling). 
At the beginning I want to try to come more to the net. But serve and volley is not my game, so... And after, during the rally, it was tough because he didn't give me a lot of opportunity to come to the net. Every time I come, I had a really tough volley to play. 
I mean, I like to come at the net when I have easy volley, not tough volley. 
After, like I say, every return game I had no chance. So it was not so easy to try new stuff. 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please. 

Q. You have the smile of someone who is very, very satisfied maybe with the whole week. Could you tell us how you feel. You won four matches and your ranking is going to go up. How do you analyze this week? How do you see the future from now on? 
JEREMY CHARDY: I'm happy with this week, of course. I believe I had a very good tournament. For the first time I made it to the semis in a Masters and I lost against the best player in the world. I believe every day I played good matches. 
Even if I lost today, I believe it was a good match. He was just better than I was in many parts of the game. I tried my best, but that is how it happens. Sometimes you play well and you lose. 
I still want to be positive about the whole week. My ranking is going to improve. I'll be seeded at the US Open so there are many positive things for the following tournaments and for the end of the season. I'm going to use this week to continue. 

Q. Were you a bit nervous at the start, the first game when you served? 
JEREMY CHARDY: Yes. I was feeling quite relaxed before the match, during the warmup. I don't know what happened, but when the match started I became extremely nervous and I made two double‑faults. After that I was able to relax. 
But it's a pity that I started that way. It's part of tennis. This is how you build up your experience. I will need to work on this so that it won't happen again. 

Q. How do you feel playing against the best player in the world? 
JEREMY CHARDY: How do I feel? Well, it's tough. When you start your match, you know you need to play your best match if you want to have a chance to win. So it puts pressure on you. 
But, as I said, when you play against him, he puts a lot of pressure on you at the moment you have to make your choices because he's either to play in defense, to be aggressive, and it's very tough to choose the shot you want to play. 
Sometimes you feel you played a good shot and he's sliding and returning the ball well. I don't know how he does that. But I believe overall I played a good match. I think I hurt him with my forehand. Every time I had an opportunity to use the forehand, I was able to hurt him. 
It's 4‑4, but it was a good match. 

Q. Is this the most emotional week you ever had in your career?
JEREMY CHARDY: Emotions, yes. There were many emotions yesterday in that match. But as a French player, I must say that matches in the French Open are even more emotional because it's in France, because everybody's there. There's the crowd and there's your family. There's a lot of emotions in the French Open. 
I had many emotions here, of course. But Roland Garros remains mythical for French players. 

Q. Yesterday the match lasted at least three hours with all the rain delays. Did you feel a bit tired for this match?
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, this is part of tennis. The more you make progress in the tournament, the more you get tired. Playing against the No.1 in the world is tough. 
I was all right at the start. But I started being tired in the second set. That's normal. Every time you play this kind of tournament, you play against tougher and tougher players, so you're getting more and more tired. You get tougher opponents. 
But you get used to it. The more you play tournaments and the more you get used to it, you get used to the intensity, to the length of the matches. 

Q. In the second set, his serve was very tough for you. Can you talk about his serve in the second set. 
JEREMY CHARDY: There's not one single moment where I was able to read his serve. I believe he can serve anywhere. He doesn't serve that fast, but he changes the speed, and he's extremely precise. It's always very close to the line. Sometimes his serve is to your body. On the second serve, he can also serve anywhere, so it's difficult to return. 
You have pressure, too, because you know if your return is so‑so, he will kill you. Sometimes you try to overdo it and you miss. So this is very difficult to manage. That's why he's so good and it's difficult to play him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT