COUPE ROGERS
August 14, 2015
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. CHARDY/J. Isner
  6‑7, 7‑6, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR: Questions in English. 

Q. John obviously was coming in the last few weeks playing very well. Very big hitter. How do you adjust your play going in against such a strong server? 
JEREMY CHARDY: It's never easy. I play Karlovic yesterday. Was a little bit the same. He was playing really good. I mean, he had seven match points, so it was a really close match. 
You need to stay focused on your game, your service game. I know if I get broken, the set is close to be finish. 
I was lucky to come back in the second. I'm really happy I stay really focus and really strong in my head the whole match. 

Q. Three hours, three tiebreakers. Does that feel like one of the craziest matches you've ever had?
JEREMY CHARDY: Yeah, it was a crazy match. We had the chance, both of us. Yeah, the match was really crazy. We did a lot of good points. We were serving both really well. 
So, I mean, if we see the statistic, I think we were really close the whole match. He can win this match like me, so I'm happy I won it. 

Q. After the rain delay, you won three games in a row. How did you prepare during the rain delay? Did you think that was key for the match, the way you came back after the rain?
JEREMY CHARDY: No, I didn't change anything. When I come back, I was focused on the same tactic. I have a set point in the first set. I start the second set, I have a breakpoint. After he get 3‑1. 
I just continue to play exactly the same. When we come back, I mean, he missed a little bit. I broke him. After I'm again in the match. So that's it. 

Q. There were seven matchpoints against you. You won all of them. Some of them were on your serve obviously. Was there pressure there with the match on the line?
JEREMY CHARDY: Yeah, I mean, in this match a lot of points was really important, with a lot of pressure. So it was a match point, but in the tiebreak every points are really important, especially against him. 
I mean, it's just a match point, but I'm serving. Normally I have more percentage to win the point. I was not thinking about the match point, I was just thinking about my serve, where I going to serve, what I want to do, that's it. 
I think if you start to think about the match point or breakpoint, you start to be nervous. It's the only way to miss the shot. 

Q. I'm assuming you have more gas left in the tank for tomorrow. We don't know your opponent. Give us your scouting report on if you're facing Nole or Gulbis. 
JEREMY CHARDY: Yeah, tomorrow will be a tough match. Like I say, if I play against Djokovic, it will be tough. I still never win a set. 
But I'm confident, and tomorrow will be a new match. Yeah, for sure I would prefer Ernests win this one. But anyway, if I play against Novak, I have nothing to lose. 
I feel well. I will go on court and I have to try something new. Anyway, the worst case I will lose. I lost already 13 or 14 times against him (laughter). I just need to try something new. If I didn't success, it will be just one more lose. 

Q. Some of the current wave of guys like Raonic and John who have such a booming serve. It changes the way you approach a match, but does it change the way you enter it at all? Do you go into it the same way regardless of who the server is?
JEREMY CHARDY: Yeah, for sure, you have more pressure on every service game. Like I say, if you get broken, the set sometimes is over. So you need to be really focused on every service game, every point. 
So these kind of match are really tough mentally because you need to stay really focused. Every small chance you have, you need to take the chance. If you have a breakpoint, you know you will not have a lot during a match. If you get the opportunity, you need to take it. It's the only difference. 
I think Raonic and Isner, they are one of the best player because they have a huge serve. I think they improve a lot from the baseline. Now they are good player from the baseline, too. 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please. 

Q. Did the break because of the rain help you to start again because there was a big change? You were down and then you broke him back. 
JEREMY CHARDY: Thanks to that rain delay, I was able to relax, because I was losing. I had lost that set on a long rally that he defended so well. Didn't expect him to do it so well. 
When I came back, I had two breakpoints that I didn't convert so I was frustrated when I went to the locker room. So I was able to calm down there and I was able to start off again when I came back on the court, and that was the goal, trying to break him as soon as possible. I didn't expect it would happen so early, but I was happy it did. 

Q. What happens in your mind when you know you have to save a breakpoint and he's serving? 
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, yeah, when he serves, it's always difficult to know where he's going to serve. During the match I was able to anticipate pretty well. I was starting before the ball was hit. 
It was always difficult. As I said against Karlovic, what you need to do is stay in the middle and see what happens. Sometimes the ball goes on the side because they are serving so well on both sides. 
It is very special the way they serve. If you just wait, you have no chances of returning. 

Q. It's been many years that you've been on the tour now. How does it feel to be in a semifinal of a Masters Series, which is quite rare for a player that is only in the top 50?
JEREMY CHARDY: I'm extremely pleased tonight that I was able to qualify for my first semifinal. It was an incredible match, full of emotions. This means the victory is even better. 
It is a very important moment in a career when you are able to play well in major tournaments. Tennis is all about the Grand Slams and the Masters. If you have good results in those tournaments, it's a good reward because that's why you're practicing. 

Q. What about the crowd? They supported you. 
JEREMY CHARDY: I believe the Canadians love French players, and we love them, too. Now there are no longer any Canadian players anymore in this tournament, so that's why maybe they supported me. We are their favorite now. 
It's great to play in front of a crowd who is supporting you, even if you're not the best‑ranked player on the court. Often they encourage the better player. It's good to win in front of that crowd. 

Q. Most Masters 1000s take place in areas where there is almost never any rain. Here it rained a lot. Are you talking amongst the players about the rain here, that we might need a roof?
JEREMY CHARDY: It's strange you're asking that because in the locker room just now, I was saying it's curious because normally it doesn't rain in Montréal. I didn't remember that it was raining so much. 
Of course, having a roof is always an asset for a tournament, especially for the crowd. When you buy your tickets, at least you're sure you can see the match. It's always an advantage for a tournament to have one. 
Everybody would be happy if there was one, the ATP, the tournament director, the crowd, the players too. Of course, it's expensive, and this tournament is already good as it is. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT