ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2015
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/J. Chardy
  6‑4, 3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   Well, are you frustrated or proud after the match?
JEREMY CHARDY:   I'm not frustrated at all.   I think I played a good match.   I was really hard ‑‑I was against him strong and solid from A to Z.   I tried to seize as many opportunities as I could. 
So all in all, I'm satisfied with the way I played.   He was a bit more solid than I was today, stronger.   I'm happy with how I played and how my game is. 
I have to continue and play the way I played during this tournament here.   I have to be much more solid, make the right choices, and then if I continue and play this way, I will be stronger and stronger.
So I want to stay positive, you see.   I want to be happy with my tournament.

Q.   Now, when people play against these players at that level, the difficulty is to win games and sets constantly, consistently?   Is that what's the most complex thing?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, that's true, high intensity during the match.   And therefore, if you tend to slow down, he might break, win a number of breakpoints.   He's present on all the shots.
The number of returns on defense, you know, I'm not that used to people doing that.   So many shots in the court.   Each time he plays, he plays so well, so you have to play this extra shot.   It's always difficult to make the right choice sometimes.   That's why he's a good player, a great player.

Q.   Did you feel today that you could do it?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah.   During the match there were moments when I thought he was doubting, and he was not feeling that well.   He started panicking a little. 
I was trying to put pressure on him from the beginning to the end, as I said before.   And there's a moment when, you know, I won a set.   I had several occasions to break him, but I couldn't.   He felt I was here on the court, and I was playing to win.   I'm satisfied with this. 

Q.   Your serves were probably not as efficient as they were during the first rounds, first three rounds, and you made double mistakes on your serves.   How come? 
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, it's due to him.   You know, when you serve well, he returns everything.   So you have to play on the second serves.   He puts a lot of pressure.   Even though he's not looking for a winner, you know, he hits the ball just after it's bounced. 
The intensity of these rallies was so high that sometimes when it's after a tough point, it's difficult to serve well.
You know, that's one of the reasons why I didn't serve as well as I usually do today. 

Q.   You said that you felt there was a moment when Murray panicked a little.   Is it the beginning of the third set when you broke him immediately and then afterwards your serve game was not that good?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, even during the second set, the first two serve games he had so many opportunities to break.   He didn't do that, and I managed to remain strong and take my games, and after this, I broke him.   I kept my break until the end, and then I won the set, and then after this I broke him immediately at the beginning of the third one.
So it's a pity.   I couldn't confirm this break, and to be up 2‑0.   Maybe that's the only regret I have in the match.

Q.   Well, by the way, when you broke him, how come you didn't play well afterwards?   You had double errors, etcetera. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   When I broke him he was still there, 100% present on the court.   It's not that easy to play these shots.   There are a few mistakes I made during the game, as I said before.   For instance, you know, if you give him a point, then it costs you something like a break point.
So you have to be focused through and through.   And sometimes it wasn't the case for me, and I made silly mistakes.
Sometimes after a little while he's in your head.   You don't know if you're going to be an attacker on the forehand, the backhand, and therefore you make mistakes you wouldn't normally make, that I didn't make in the beginning of the match.

Q.   However, did you enjoy this moment when you were really with the crowd?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, it was incredible on the court.   It was almost crammed with people.   I think the atmosphere was good.   I think we played a good match, as well.   So for me, it was really nice.   Even though I was defeated today, I'm very happy with this Roland Garros, and with my match today. 
Such an atmosphere with the crowd, it's a great moment.   When you're on the courts, you know, it's incredible.

Q.   How far do you think Murray's going to go?   How deep?   A possible winner, would you say? 
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, my favorite, as I said, as I have always said, is Djokovic.   The second one is always Nadal. 
He's just behind them, I think.   Then, well, you know, he defeated Nadal in Madrid, so he can beat them, that's true.
But then it all depends.   At the end of the tournament, you know, it depends on the matches they will have played, who is going to have more energy than the other players.   But he's one of the best outsiders for me.

Q.   Tactically, what was your plan to try and fight back against Murray? 
JEREMY CHARDY:   I wanted to attack a lot of his second serves.   I did this well during the whole match, and then from the baseline.   I didn't want to hurry too much.   I stayed during the rallies.   I was waiting for the good shots to go for it. 
And from the baseline sometimes I was trying not to give him too much pace or rhythm, for him to use my shots.   I was waiting for the right shot.
But, you know, he counters really well.   He defends very well.   I keep on repeating this, but that's not easy to do. 

Q.   You reached quarterfinals in Australia, your ranking was good.   And then your ranking went down for different reasons.   What's the key for you?   To use this Roland Garros as a springboard?   For you to go up constantly in the rankings rather than doing ups and downs all the time? 
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, it's my game.   If I can stick to that level, all these matches I played at Roland Garros, if I can continue this way, my ranking will improve.   That's the key.   It's not more complex than this.   But it's difficult to do.
So I have to continue and work and practice, work on the things I have been working on when I practice and stay at this level for the rest of the season. 
I have been working on this for a while with my coach, have been working on these points.   I was rewarded here at Roland Garros.   I'm very happy, and now I want to continue and continue to play like this and go as deep as I can in the tournaments. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT