ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2015
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  J. CHARDY/M. Berrer  4-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-4    THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   Q.  During the first set, he took advantage of the first break point, and then you had three neat sets afterwards.  JEREMY CHARDY: Yeah, I'm happy with my match.  You know, four sets at a high level. First set he played well, that's true.  Then he won the set.  I had two opportunities and I missed them. But throughout the match, I'm satisfied with the way I played, my performance, satisfied with four sets even though I lost the first one.   Q.  We saw you.  It was 6-4, 2-1, and that's when you asked your coach, and you asked your girlfriend to come down, I think.  Why?  To get closer to you?  JEREMY CHARDY: Well, yeah, the thing is they were in the middle of everybody else.  I don't know.  It was a moment when I had lost the first set.  I was a bit nervous.  Each time I wanted to watch them, I didn't know where they were in the crowd. So it took me time to find them in the crowd.  They were, you know, out there, but I couldn't find them.  I had to play the point again.  But when they were closer to me, it was easier for me.  That's it.  It was important. Sometimes for me it's important to get this little support, extra support, you know, to get to meet someone's eyes.  I asked them to come.  You know, it was my box, so they could come to my box.   Q.  At the end 48 winners and not many points lost.  Did you expect such statistics, such a success?  JEREMY CHARDY: I felt good during this match, you know.  And even during the preparation week I felt good.  So I'm happy with the way I played, and also happy to have played a solid match.  I love playing this way, to have many winners, winning shots.  When I do this, when it's at Roland Garros, it's even better.   Q.  It's Court No. 1.  You have never been defeated on this one.  JEREMY CHARDY: Well, I love this court.  I think, well, you know, you feel good on this court.  The atmosphere is always good.  Given my style of game, you know, it's well-centered as a court, and I'm used to playing on this court.  So each year I'm happy to play on the court and to win more matches.   Q.  Next round will be against Isner.  It's better than Seppi.  What do you think?  JEREMY CHARDY: Well, Isner, you know, his serve is incredible, so it's this thing. You shouldn't feel frustrated.  I have played several times against him.  Sometimes there are games I know I'm not going to hit many points, but I'll have to remain calm, focus on my serve game, because a break can be very expensive if you lose it. So I have to be careful about his serve.  And also, I have to put more pressure on his serve game, because if he plays too much, if he's too much into the match, he will feel there is no pressure, so he's going to serve even better. So if he serves well, I will have to return as best as I can, put pressure on him, show him I'm present on the serve points.  It's going to be a tough match, and, well, this one was a good match.  So I will use this experience to gain confidence for the next round.   Q.  I have a question that has nothing to do with your match.  We saw Jo and Benoit.  They encouraged Maxime on the court.  He's one of the young players in the new generation.  We have this generation the potential, but they are far from being where they should be.  Do you think it's difficult to stand out for the French, young French players?  JEREMY CHARDY: No, I think we have many players who play good tennis, many young players.  You know, going from 250 to 100, and to be in the top 100 is a difficult moment, a difficult turnaround.  You have to have many challenger matches and win each time or go deep in the tournament.  You have to play many challenger matches or play well during bigger tournaments.  So it's always a difficult moment, this turnaround to be in the top 100. He plays well, and if he continues this way to practice a lot, to be serious, well, some of them will be in the top 100.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT