MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 14, 2015
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. CHARDY/D. Schwartzman
  7‑5, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.

Q.   Are the conditions very different from Houston here?
JEREMY CHARDY:   The clay is very different.   Over there it is special.   I can't explain it.   It's brown with big granules. 
I arrived here late on Sunday.   Yesterday I played a doubles match.   It was not easy.   During this first set I had physical problems.   My heart wasn't calming down.   So for three games, it was very difficult. 
I was lucky I served well during that period.   I was pleased with my level of game.   Winning that match, it was important for me to stay focused because I couldn't waste any energy.   It's good that I won in two sets for tomorrow. 

Q.   You played well these last tournaments. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yes, I played solid.   I lost in three sets to Berdych and Anderson recently.   Those losses can hurt you because you want to go further in the tournament.   But that's the way it is. 
Anyway, I'm happy with my level now. 

Q.   Your next opponent will be Federer.   What do you think of that?   Usually you seem to find it easier to play him than other players. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   I wouldn't say 'easier'.   But when you play those top players, you can't just watch them play, otherwise they become confident.   You don't have any chances of winning. 
I will need to have a good start and not let him play.   He likes to dictate the points, but I do too.   So I'll try to start off the match well. 
For him, it's going to be his first match on clay, and it's going to be my fourth match.   It might be an advantage for me. 

Q.   Why do you find it easier to play Federer?
JEREMY CHARDY:   We both like to dictate the points.   Against Djokovic it's tougher for me because he poses many problems when I'm serving, and he covers the court very well. 
Each player has a different game.   You always have some players you prefer playing.   If I can play like I do usually against him tomorrow, it's going to be a good match. 

Q.   Do you always enjoy playing the top players like Djokovic and Nadal or would you prefer to play them later in the tournament? 
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, if there was a way to play them later in the tournament, of course it would be better.   Playing them in the second or third round is tough.   But these matches are always important matches because you want to play the top players, you want to confront them.   If you win, it's a great feeling.   But if you lose, you still learn a lot. 
I always lose badly against Djokovic because he uses my weaknesses to his advantage.   So after a match like that, with your coach, you can really draw the lessons, and it helps you to improve. 

Q.   Is it important for you to be among the 32 seeded players in the French Open or would you rather be seeded 35 and have maybe an easier draw?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, I'm not thinking only in terms of ranking.   I believe it's better to be seeded.   If you're not, everything depends on the draw. 
In Australia, for example, I was not seeded, and I had a very good result.   So I just try to win my matches.   But my goal is to be the best seeded as I can because then I might have to play the top players later in the tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT