BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 29, 2014
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. FEDERER/J. Chardy
  7‑6, 6‑7, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   With how well you have played against Roger this year in the three matches, do you think you'd be a good pick for Davis Cup, trying to find the best French player to matchup against him?
JEREMY CHARDY:   No, I think we know the team already, and we're going to play.   I played three time good match against him, but I'm not thinking I gonna be on the team. 

Q.   And lastly, when you have one of these close matches against him, how much does the indoor environment here change the intensity of the match?
JEREMY CHARDY:   I think that atmosphere was nice.   I think I start really well the match.   I was really aggressive.   He was not so ready at the beginning, so I get 3‑0; after it was a good fight. 
I didn't miss so much, but the first game in the third set.   But against a good player like this, more mistake and you lost the match. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   How do you react after a match like this, a great match?
JEREMY CHARDY:   I played a very good match.   I was able to do everything I wanted to do today and I had opportunities.   Even when I was broken back I didn't play a bad game.   He was just a little bit better than I was today.   I think that was the difference.

Q.   5‑2, set point, do you believe what happened there had no incidence for the rest of the match?
JEREMY CHARDY:   When you win the first set of course it changes, but if I had won that first set I might have lost the second.   So you never know.   That's just the way the match was. 
Even if I had won the first set he wouldn't have given up, of course.   He would have tried to find solutions to be able to win.   I can't think that way. 

Q.   But we felt he was taking time to get into that match.   Did you feel he was improving with the match?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, in the beginning I was very aggressive from the start and I felt that he was not reacting quickly.   He was a bit slow.   So this helped me make a break at the beginning.
But it's been several times I have been playing against the top players, and I know the beginning of a match is always important.   Because if you don't play well from the start, then it becomes much more complicated.
So I'm happy that I started that way, but he was trying to find solutions.   I think he did that very quickly, unfortunately.
But I didn't give up.   I tried to stay in there, and I believe the fight was good to watch.

Q.   He's playing a lot of events right now.   How did you feel he was playing?
JEREMY CHARDY:   All the matches are difficult to win, and I think he has many goals for this end of season.   He has more goals than anybody else.   You might want to ask a question to him about that. 
But he's used to have a lot of goals, a lot of pressure.   He has always been up to the expectations, and I think he's able to manage the situation. 
If he thinks it's too much he wouldn't do it.   So I think if he chose to do that, it's because he feels he's able to do it. 

Q.   You have been going up to the net, like in Valencia against Robredo.   Is this a change in your game that is there to stay?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yes.   I think it was something I was missing if I wanted to become better and be ranked at a higher level.   We are working on this with my coach.   I do that better and better during matches right now, but I need to work on that even during the off period. 
I hope next year will be better at the net and that it will help me win more matches and beat better players. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT