BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 28, 2014
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. CHARDY/K. De Schepper
  7‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   What is your best memory of Davis Cup?   Is it the atmosphere?   Do you have any special memory of a final, I mean?  
JEREMY CHARDY:   The final?   I have never been in a Davis Cup final.  
   
 Q.   But on television maybe?   Anything that struck you?  
JEREMY CHARDY:   Nothing for a final.   Well, of course the atmosphere of a Davis Cup, yes, I know that, but I just watched on TV the last final from France, but it's so different watching TV than being just there, so I have no answer to your question.   
   
 Q.   Back to your match in Valencia, you were playing well except maybe at some moments.   Were you annoyed because you were playing well?  
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yes, after the match I was quite annoyed, because I had played well for the whole week.   And against Robredo I played a good match.   
I went a lot up to the net.   I was really trying to get those points.   So I was annoyed, but I was also happy with the week I had.   And it was also the best game I played indoors, so that was the good part of it.   
   
 Q.   In the beginning today, it was tough for you to get into that match.   What bothered you?   The surface?   Your opponent?   
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, I was a bit tense in the beginning of the match.   Later on, Kenny played a very good match.   He served well.   He mixed it up all along.   
And as I said before, I didn't expect him to play so well from the baseline.   He was moving well, and he didn't miss much.  
So we had good rallies.   It was a good fight for the whole match, because neither of us wanted to give up, and the two sets were in a tiebreaker, and I'm happy I won them.   
   
 Q.   What did you do between the singles and the doubles?   Is it easy to become friends again after a match like this?  
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, we are used to it.   On the court we are opponents, but as soon as the match is over, it's finished unless something very bad happens on the court.   
But otherwise, we forget about it, and we had decided before this tournament to play together, anyway.   We decided to focus on the doubles match, although it was not very easy because we didn't have much time between the singles and the doubles match.   It was a pity.  
   
 Q.   So now what do you have to do to go just one step further?   A bit of luck, too?  
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, I'm happy with this year.   As far as I'm concerned, this is my best season.   I think I was consistent during the whole year.   I played good matches.   I'm very happy with this season.  
Now I would like to improve my game further.   I want to play like I did in Valencia, go up to the net more often and be more aggressive so I can finish off the points at the net.   I need to improve my returns, also, because if I return well, I can put pressure on my opponent.   This is important.   
I have been working on this all year round, and I do that better now.   What I need to do now is win more matches in the tournaments and be top seeded, and during the off period I'll keep working on these things and I hope I'll play better next year.   
   
 Q.   If you win that match against Federer, do you feel you might be selected for the Davis Cup team?  
JEREMY CHARDY:   I'm not thinking about that.   I'm just thinking about how I'm going to play tomorrow.   I'm very focused.   I'll take my chances.   I don't believe this match will change anything.   I'll just do my little thing, and we'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   You played Federer twice this year, in the beginning and the middle of the season.   The second match was just when he became a father and you won him.   But was this victory very significant for you?   It was not just because he had just become a father.   
JEREMY CHARDY:   It is always an important moment in your career when you're able to play and win against a player like him.   I enjoyed that moment.  
He beat me in the beginning of the year, and I beat him the second time, so tomorrow I'm just going to play my match.   But we all say it's always difficult to play against him, and I'll stay focused on my own game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT