ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2014
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/J. Chardy
      6‑1, 6‑4, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   Nine out of nine, although you knew what to expect.   You didn't find a way to manage this? 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, he was simply stronger than me, bigger than me in all compartments.   It's difficult.   You're always under pressure.
    He knows everything.   He can do everything.   It was tough, but congratulations to him.
    Now I have to work for next time, and maybe next time I can upset him more and I can be stronger.

Q.   You served well, but he returns very well.   Is that a problem for your game?   Where is it you're stuck?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, it changes all of my automatic game.   If, when I can serve and then I can replace myself, but when it's on my forehand I cannot attack.   There are many automatic features that I lose when I play him.
    And from the back line, he can play anywhere.   If I move, he will move.   When I stay, he will catch me on my backhand.
    He's just unbelievable, because he can control my game.   It's very difficult, anyway. 

Q.   You said you were going to try some new things with him.   What was your game plan when you walked on court?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, it's very difficult to try new things against him.   I never got control of the game.   I never was able to dictate the game, so it wasn't easy.
    Then when I wanted to go for it, I made mistakes and he was faster than me.   Again, I wanted to mix my serves, my balls.   I wanted to play more on the forehand.   But it wasn't easy. 
    He plays really well.   I mean, I have played against him so many times.   Today I really felt like he was consistent, he was strong in all his shots.   There was nothing I could do.

Q.   Do you feel like you have the idea or game to make him look good?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, I'm not the only one who makes him look good.   The more I play against him, the more he knows how I play.
    Obviously he will try and play where it hurts me.   And right from the beginning of the match he got into the match and he took control of the match.   Then it was very difficult for me to be confident again and do something to upset him.

Q.   The fact that you were playing on central court, was that an additional pressure?   Maybe your landmarks were different?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, yeah, obviously the landmarks are different.   I felt okay on the court.   Not so well when the match started, obviously.
    Otherwise, no, I felt fine.   It's just that today he was simply the best player.

Q.   You have been playing better lately.   You had a good tournament in Rome.   What about the frustration?   Are you thinking about what is coming next?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   I'm not frustrated.   I'm very happy of the way I play, my game level. 
    However, sometimes it's very difficult to admit defeat.   When you're a player, it's difficult, but you have to admit that the opponent was stronger.   And right now he is the best player of the tour.   It makes me want to work more and improve my game, and I can be stronger next time. 

Q.   Do you see him winning the tournament?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Winning the tournament?   I can't say.   There are other players who play very well, as well.   Before the tournament, I said he was my favorite.
    But now that he defeated me, I'm not going to say the contrary. 

Q.   What about your plans now?   Are you moving to grass immediately?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   I still have the doubles to play, because we won yesterday and we have the mixed doubles, as well. 
    Then, yes, of course.   I'll go to the Queen's, Eastbourne, and Wimbledon. 

Q.   We get the feeling that you felt better than last year when you were playing Tsonga. 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, yes, of course.   I feel that I'm playing better than last year.   On court I was feeling well.   It was just difficult to find solutions.
    It is frustrating when you're on court and you feel that you're under pressure throughout the match and you don't find any solutions.   It is frustrating after a while. 
    But that's the way it is.   Maybe I'm not used to having that sort of feeling on court.   Sometimes it gets a bit long on court.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT