ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2014
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. CHARDY/D. Gimeno‑Traver
      7‑5, 6‑2, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   It's a bit as if there were two matches today.   5‑3 and set ball for him, and you saved this set ball at the net and then you won three games straight.   How do you analyze that?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, at the beginning I was a little bit nervous, I guess.   It was the first round.   I didn't feel well, but I wanted to play a great match.   My legs were not moving enough.   I played with my arm but not with my legs enough.   So then when I came back, I felt more relaxed and I played a very good match until the end of the match.

Q.   You were quite strong on your serve all along the match. 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Yes, I served well.   I played strong during the entire match.   I don't think I lost many points on my serve, but I lost the first games.   Then I was quite strong, and I led the game and that's why I won quite easily.

Q.   It's going to be a rainy day tomorrow, apparently, so it was important for you to finish tonight. 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, it's always important to finish the day's start, but it was getting dark and it was important for me to finish the match and win it in three sets.   It's always important for the rest of the tournament. 
    So it's good.   It's good I finished.   And if it's raining tomorrow, well, you know what?   I played my round, so it's no longer my problem.

Q.   Second round I guess you have seen who you might be playing in the second round.   What do you think about it?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, he needs to win his match first.   But then, of course, he's the favorite.   If I play Djokovic, it's going to be a very tough match.
    At the moment I think he is the strongest on the tour, so it's going to be a very difficult second tour for me, even more so when he's won eight times in a row. 
    So it's never easy for me to play him.   But I've got nothing to lose.   I have never won a set to him, so I will need to find a solution and need to find a tactic, something different, to try and change this.

Q.   Do you have any idea, by the way, you tried many different things against him, do you think about a solution?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   (Laughter.)   Well, that's a tough question.   No, the problem with when you play one of the best, even when you play something, even when you think you have found something that might create a problem for him, he adapts.   He turns it around. 
    So it's difficult to find the right tactic to beat those guys.   And even when you do find the right tactic, you have to be able to and play it from the beginning till the end and play at the same level all match long. 
    So it's always a difficult match.

Q.   Amongst the top players, is he the one that's the most difficult for you to play because of your style?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, each time I play him, I think he's the one who returns the best, which is a problem for me because I use my first serve quite a lot.   After my first serve, there are many situations in which I find myself in a difficult position immediately. 
    It's not just returning in the court.   He's always trying to be very aggressive on his return.   So even when you think you've played a good serve, he finds a way to return long and put you in a difficult position immediately.
    And then, you know what?   His game is not bad. 

Q.   You think he's the strongest.   Would you say he's the favorite?   He's stronger than Nadal?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, the last times they have played each other, he won.   Then I said before this tournament that he would be my favorite for this tournament.   So honestly, I hope I was wrong, because I'm playing him now, but the thing is that Nadal is very difficult to win in five sets, even if you have two sets against him, the match can be very long because he is in great shape.
    So if they have to play one another, it's going to be a close result, because when you want to win against Nadal, you have to be fit for five sets and be aggressive at all times.

Q.   Talking about this day, Alize was playing earlier today.   We saw you watching her play on the screen.   Did you manage to enjoy her game?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   It was a bit difficult.   I wanted to be there to watch her play, but it was difficult.   I watched on telly, but at the same time, I had to be focused for my match.   So I watched her match on television.
    And then, in my practice court, I had the big screen just behind me, so I managed to watch her.   And to be honest, I was watching the screen more than practicing.   (Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT