BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 28, 2013
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. ROSOL/J. Chardy
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   There were a lot of mistakes in that game.   It took time for you to be comfortable. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   That's a good analysis of the match.   I didn't play well for the whole match.   I didn't feel good on the court.   I made many errors, and because I was not feeling well, I was trying to become more confident with my forehand by hitting it hard. 
I believe this was not a wise thing to do.   I should maybe have stepped back a little and put the ball in.   I would have become more confident with my forehand if I had been able to hit it more often.
So I believe I put myself in a bad position, but fortunately I was lucid enough to change it.

Q.   This is not your favorite surface.   Maybe you were not confident.   Because you were up in the second set. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   I don't know why.   I'm sure I could play well on that kind of surface, but I panicked very early.   When I see I'm not feeling comfortable, I have no solutions or simple tactics that I can use.
When I'm outdoors I feel I have more time, so I'm able to step back and play more forehands, higher forehands.   I have more solutions.
But on that type of court, I panic.   But it's stupid, because I do have solutions in my game.

Q.   You were quite static.   Did you lack energy?
JEREMY CHARDY:   No, I feel very well, but I was nervous.   I was not feeling well and comfortable on the court, so it was difficult for me to find the right position.   I was slow on the court in spite of the fact that physically I was perfectly fit. 
And even now I still have a lot of energy.   I'm quite disappointed that I'm ending the season on a match like this.

Q.   So talking about your season, how would you rate this season?
JEREMY CHARDY:   There were many positive things.   There were several periods where I played well.
I played the best tennis of my career.   I was most solid.   I improved a lot on my game.
But I am a bit disappointed because the season was not full.   I had problems with my knee.   So I hope I'll be able to prepare well for next year.
I want to have a full season with no problems with my knee and having a consistent level during the whole year throughout the year.
So this year it was not as bad as usual, but I still had some ups and downs.   So I want to work to be more solid for the whole season.

Q.   Do you think you lost the possibility of being seeded in Melbourne?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, I'm certainly not going to go and play a challenger to try to become a seeded player in Melbourne.   I played for the whole season here and I had my opportunities.   If I'm not top 32, it will be my fault.
I still have the first tournament of the year where I can win some points.   I didn't really look.   Yeah, I was told I had a little chance of making it. 
But before I had the power of doing something about it, now I don't have it anymore.   So I will see next Monday what my ranking is.
But anyway, I'm happy with the team I have with me.   That makes me confident for next season.   I know I will have the people I chose myself around me, and that we are going to do some good work.   This is something positive to look forward to for the next year.

Q.   You still have team competition to play, and then you're going to the Mauritius Islands, or you don't know yet?
JEREMY CHARDY:   You forgot to talk about the holidays.   Yes, team competition.   Well, I'm quite disappointed this season because they changed the date of the finals and I will not be able to go and play that.
What I like in team competition is that I can play those five matches with the team and we can stay together.   It's really a pity, so I'm going to play this match, but I won't be able to go to the final.   That is the most interesting part.
Anyway, I just finished here, so I'm going to talk with my coach and the president of my club, because I really like to play with my team.   I mean, all the people in the team, we asked them to come together with the president, and it's really tough not to be able to go to the end if you start playing.

Q.   Can you say a few words about your new coach?   How different is he?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, we started working together at the US Open.   But since we started working together, we never had much time to have a long period together because there were tournaments all the time and we couldn't working on specific things.   When you want to work on something specific, you need more time.
So what was important for me was that he could watch me play in different circumstances on different surfaces so that he could have a real opinion about my game.
Now he knows.   Even if he had an idea before, now he knows exactly what I need to work on during the off‑season.
I really hope he's going to bring me new things for my game.   I know I have to work on many things.   I have a margin for progression.   This is positive. 
This is why I chose him.   And also, I know he's going to be very strict about my game and my physical training.

Q.   Going backwards, what lesson did you draw from your loss against Tsonga in the French Open, about your mental condition or... 
JEREMY CHARDY:   What lessons?   Well, he was just a lot better than I was for that match.   The two previous rounds I had played well and I felt good playing Jo.   I thought I had a chance, but he started playing extremely well from the start, from the onset, and he was above me, even mentally, during the whole match.
So when you play against the top players, if they start becoming confident, it's always difficult to change it over. 
In the past, I saw that the beginning is extremely important when you play a top player.   This is where you can have a chance, because if not, then the player starts being up and being more confident, and it becomes more difficult for you to win.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT