MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 15, 2013
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







P. ANDUJAR/J. Chardy
  6‑7, 7‑5, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   You didn't play so well in the first set, but apparently it was difficult to find the right rhythm. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, I believe I played too much in his own game, meaning I played too much a clay court game. 
I was not used to playing.   I didn't go forward enough.   I didn't hit the ball early enough.   I didn't play a great match. 
I tried to find solutions, but I didn't, and I lost.   I have time now before Barcelona so I will work a lot.   I'm not worried. 

Q.   But you do feel good on clay?
JEREMY CHARDY:   I don't feel bad on clay.   But there are many things I need to improve on this surface before I can play well.   I need to work on my movement and I do need to improve my serve. 
Since I started playing again in Indian Wells and Miami, I've been hurting while serving.   I need to work on that.   The serve is a very important part of my game, and if I don't feel comfortable with my game, then the rest of my game is affected.   So I will serve a lot during the next days. 

Q.   After Miami you said you were not fit enough to play in Argentina for the Davis Cup.   How do you feel now?
JEREMY CHARDY:   I feel better and better.   Of course, I still have a lot of work to do.   I will try to go back as soon as I can to work with my physical trainer because I need to feel better on the court. 
If I'm fit, it's easier for me to make the right choice on the court. 

Q.   Did you talk with the other members of the team about what happened in Argentina?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, I watched all the matches on TV.   I feel I belong to the team and I felt I was with them.   It was extremely frustrating because behind my TV screen I knew I couldn't do anything.   I was useless. 
It's always tough to feel you're very close to winning a match, and in the end you lose it.   Could have won those matches. 

Q.   Does this loss in Davis Cup affect the tennis players right now?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, we don't want to talk about that.   We are all disappointed.   So the last thing we want to do is talk about this.   I know all of them tried their best and that's tennis.   Sometimes you can't win.   It's a pity we didn't. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT