AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2013
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. CHARDY/A. Seppi
      5‑7, 6‑3, 6‑2, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   The history of tennis, I think you are the first Jeremy.   How come?   Is the name of your family? 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Jeremy? 

Q.   Yes. 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   I don't know (smiling).   I don't know, sorry. 

Q.   Did you have other Jeremys in the family?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   No, first one. 

Q.   Do you have sometimes someone that suggests what you do in the court because you looked inspired against my poor Italian on the court. 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   I don't know.   It's too difficult for me. 

Q.   First Grand Slam quarterfinal.   Must be pretty happy with what you've achieved so far. 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, I'm very happy.   When I am coming here, I didn't play very well since the beginning of the year.   After my first win, I feel more relaxed, more confident.   Now I'm in quarterfinal. 
    Just like a dream.   I play very well on court.   I feel very well.   I play solid.   It's good for my tennis. 

Q.   So it's come as a surprise to you?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   I know I can beat everybody.   So when I feel confident, I believe in me.   Against Del Potro, I play a very good match.   So it was good for my head. 
    And today it was difficult after my win yesterday.   I think when I lose the first set 7‑5, I forget it.   I say, Okay, now I have to play, because I was a little bit nervous.   After I play more relax.   After I play three very good sets. 

Q.   In the second set, there was a moment that you changed.   You were playing two‑handed backhand, then suddenly you started to play with the slice.   After that, you became in a better position. 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, you have to change something.   After lose the first set 7‑5, I decide to play higher.   Sometimes I play with two‑hand backhand, sometimes slice.   Like this, it was better because more variation.   It was good for me.   He start to miss a little bit. 

Q.   If Andy Murray wins the next match, you beat him in Cincinnati, what do you remember about that match and can you use it?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, of course I can use it.   I win already against him, so it's good for the confidence when you go on court.   Last year I play a perfect match against him. 
    If I have to play against him again, it will be another match, a very tough match.   So I have to continue on this way.   If I have a chance, I have to try to take it because I think Andy is one of the best players.   So it will be a tough match. 

Q.   Do you think it will be harder in a best‑of‑five? 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, it's more difficult because it's tough to win three sets in a row against big player.   They have a chance to come back all the time, to change the game. 
    I don't want to think too much about this match.   I want to enjoy this one first.   Tomorrow I have one day.   No doubles, no singles, so it's good.   I will be focused on my match against him or Simon tomorrow night. 

Q.   Your first quarterfinal in a Grand Slam.   How does it feel? 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, I feel so happy.   I think quarterfinal, it's very good result.   But now I can play quarters, so I feel very good.   I play my best tennis.   So I have to take my chance.   If I play against Andy Murray or Simon, I have to believe in me and my game.

Q.   You said you were nervous today.   A bigger game next.   Will you be able to control your nerves?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Against my next one?   Yeah, I think I have nothing to lose.   It's always easier when you have to play with nothing to lose. 
    So if I play against Simon or Murray, I can go for it and enjoy my tennis, enjoy the quarter, but stay focused because I think I have a chance to win.   So I have to believe it. 

Q.   There's so many exceptional French players.   The focus is so much on Tsonga, on Gasquet.   Perhaps you want to have a breakthrough result, but you have to keep your career going without any real great publicity.   Now it's your moment in the lights. 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, but we have many good player.   Jo and Richard play better than me before.   So now I have to play more solid and to have many big win to be like them. 
    So, no, for me I don't care about this.   I just play.   I practicing in academy and stay focused on my tennis, and outside I don't care.

Q.   Did you always believe this would happen for you?   Were you always confident that one day your talent would be good enough to reach a Grand Slam?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, for sure.   I always play good against big player.   Sometimes I beat some.   So I really believe on my game, on my talent. 
    After it's tough because you have to win many match.   Today it's a good opportunity for me.   Now I'm in quarterfinals, so I have nothing to lose again. 
    I will believe, for sure, on my chance. 

Q.   Can you talk about your knee a little bit.   In the first set you actually took off some of the tape. 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, yesterday during the doubles against the Bryan brothers, during the second set I start to feel something in my knee.   So I call the physio.   Today I have the pain in my knee. 
    After I lose the first set, I say, No, I have to forget it because I can be in quarters.   If I have pain everywhere in my body, doesn't matter, I have to play and try to find the solution to win today. 
    So I forget my pain and I just be strong in my head and that's it. 

Q.   Have they told you what is wrong with it? 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   No.   I think I play many matches, tough matches.   So it's normal to have pain now, so...   It's like this. 

Q.   When you beat Andy in Cincinnati, what did you do well that day?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   I was serving very well first.   I know if I play against him, I have to be very focused on my serve because it's very important.   After every serve, I have to always take my chance because if I start to play a rally with him, I have no chance. 
    I have to try always something on his game.   Sometimes he miss something, or if I make a good shot after 30‑All or 15‑30, I have to take my chance all the time. 
    I beat him like this.   I breaked twice in the first set, and in the second I break him twice.   I will try something.   I play different every point.   I think it's the way to beat him.

Q.   Could you tell us how important the academy and Patrick have been to your career. 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   I think it's very important for me because when I'm at the academy, I feel really like at home.   Everybody is very nice with me.   I have everything on the academy.   Patrick can help me.   I speak a lot with him.   I have my coach, my physio, my fitness coach. 
    So for me it's very important to have many people.   I think we can choose the people with who I can work, I want to work.   It's really important. 
    I like my coach very much.   It's like a friend, brother, I don't know.   We are very near.   I think it's important for me.   When I play I have everybody on my box.   It's good.   It's a big help on the court. 

Q.   Before the season started, you were in Mauritius. 
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Yes. 

Q.   Was there much interaction between you and Serena?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah.   She's a very nice person.   I speak a lot outside the court with her.   I practicing once with her.   I think she's a big champion.   I hope she will win the tournament. 

Q.   Did you play a set with her?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   No, I didn't play a set.   But we have a practice.   Now I understand why she won very easy many matches.

Q.   A lot of players have a hard time coming back after pulling off an upset like you did against Juan Martin.   How were you able to keep your calm to get the job done today?
    JEREMY CHARDY:   I feel confident on my game.   It's always easier to be calm on the court.   After I lose the first set, I say, Okay, I don't play very good today; I have to play more relax because I was nervous.   When I start to hit my forehand, I start to feel confidence.   Because when my forehand is here, my head is here, everything is here. 
    So when I start to feel good on my forehand, I play more relax.   After, the match change.   After, I stay calm.   I play solid.   It was a good win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT