BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 31, 2012
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. RAONIC/J. Chardy
  6‑7, 7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   It's cruel there were no break points until 2‑2.   You had the first ones, three in the same game.   What happened then?   Did he go out of his way to get them back?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, we both served very well during the whole match.   It was not easy for me to return.   He was serving really hard.
The two serves were very fast, but after I was able to mix it up and serve well.   As soon as I could, I was moving forward.   I don't believe I need to have regrets. 
On one break point he made an ace.   Sometimes I was able to return the ball in, and he played good volleys.
When I got broken it's because I served not as well.   But I don't have regrets.   Things could have turned out my way maybe.   I'm satisfied with that match, and I'm happy the way I played.   But also, I'm a bit sad that I lost because when the score is tight, you always regret you didn't win.

Q.   How does it feel playing against him?   There are not many rallies.   Is it difficult to keep focused?   It's just aces or... 
JEREMY CHARDY:   I knew it was going to be like that anyway.   We play a similar game, both of us, so neither of us expected long rallies anyway.
As soon as we could, we were taking our chances and hitting hard.   It's all game.   When nobody wants to step back there is no rallies, of course.
When you play against a good server on an indoor fast surface, you know there are going to be games where there will be only aces or winners.
But you have to hang in there because you might have an opportunity to break.   Sometimes it takes only one or two good returns, so you have to play each game the best you can and try to take every point you can.

Q.   On his serve, what is most impressive?   His first serves?   Very fast, 230 kilometers, or his kick?   Very short?
JEREMY CHARDY:   He has two very strong weapons.   First, he's able to hit the ball very hard, but he can slice very short ball, kick very shortly on the advantage side.   So it's very difficult to know where I should stand when I'm going to return.
If he hits hard, then you need to step back to have a chance to return the serve.   But then if he sees you stepping back he plays his short kick.   His second serve, it's the same. 
Honestly I didn't believe he was serving so hard with his second serve.
I didn't look at the radar, but I felt his second serves were going very fast.   So it's difficult to find the right position.   If you're further behind, he hits a short one.   If you're closer to the net, then he hits a hard one.   So it's difficult.

Q.   What do you remember from the season?
JEREMY CHARDY:   What I will keep in my mind is that in the beginning of the season I was top 103.   I was not in a good shape.   I was playing challengers.   I wasn't playing that well.
But I fought, and I was able to win very tough matches.   More and more, I was able to win matches and I was becoming more confident.   What I was working on made me improve, and I was able to do better.   I was playing better. 
During the second part of the year, I was able to improve my chip backhand.   I was able to remain focused and calm during the whole match.
What I'm most proud of is that my average game has improved considerably.   That was the main thing I was working on.   I was able to improve that. 
I really hope that in between the two seasons, during the rest period, I'll be able to improve that average game even more. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT