BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 30, 2012
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. CHARDY/G. Garcia‑Lopez
  6‑0, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   Strange match today.   You saw he was injured.   The second set was tougher.   How did you manage the situation. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   In the beginning of the match, the four games, it was 4‑love for me, but he had breakpoints in each game.
So I'm happy because I was able to mix it up during the whole match.   I didn't want to give him any rhythm or momentum because he hits well if the rhythm is good for him and he doesn't miss.
So I really thought I needed to mix it up from the start.   I did that and I was able to bring him forward with my chip, and when he was coming forward after that I knew he was going backwards. 
So I was able to use angles and get myself some opportunities.   I was happy with my match.

Q.   How do you feel playing indoors again?   Remember, we talked about it.   Do you like it or not?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Before the tournament I was not even sure I was going to play here.   I didn't have many references to use, and I'm happy that I was able to play a doubles match. 
On Sunday I was able to play a few games.   I was happy with that.   Playing doubles with the umpire, the ball boys, helped me get used to it, so it was important to play that match before playing here this first round.

Q.   But do you like indoors?
JEREMY CHARDY:   I prefer to play outdoors, of course.   But indoors I have other weapons that I can use to play well.   During this match I just said I needed to win it and I didn't think about anything else.

Q.   What is the problem with indoors for you?
JEREMY CHARDY:   I don't mind playing indoors, but I don't like surfaces where the ball doesn't bounce high.   In this kind of surface it doesn't bounce high, and it's difficult for my game because with my forehand, when I was time enough, I can work on the ball and have it bounce high. 
But here it doesn't bounce high, so I can't use that weapon I have.   This weapon is an important part of my game, because it's important for me to be able to play that particular forehand. 
But when I play here, I need to mix it up more.

Q.   Raonic next round.   What do you think?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, he plays well, I know.   I will need to concentrate on my serve games.   This is the most important when you play indoors, is to keep your serve.
So I will need to try and take risks on my returns of his serve because he serves well.   And because if I don't threaten him on his serve, his percentage is going to go even higher.   So if you try to return better, it's more pressure for him.

Q.   You're talking about indoors, but what are your last memories of this tournament here?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, I prefer the surface this year because it's slower than the other years.   So I prefer the surface this year, no doubt.

Q.   Are you thinking about Djokovic already?
JEREMY CHARDY:   No.   I never look at my draw ahead of time.   If I was thinking of Djokovic, it's possible only if I know that he's in my part of the draw, and I don't even know that.

Q.   But what happened to you?   You almost retired. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   When I came back from Asia on the Sunday I had a problem with my neck.   It was a bit blocked.   My back also was pretty bad.   In two different areas I had a lot of pain, but I took anti‑inflammatories and the pain was still there.   Then the pain started reaching my left arm.   Every time I moved it was hurting.
So since I came back from Shanghai I didn't play at all.   I just started hitting again on Friday, and on Friday I didn't even do any serves.   I just started serving on Saturday.
Sunday I played some points with Gilles, and I played some other points in the afternoon, too.   But after I was able to play that doubles match and I had no pain anymore, so I was able to serve harder.

Q.   A follow‑up to the former question.   Didn't this happen before Tokyo?
JEREMY CHARDY:   No.   Before Tokyo I had pain in the nerve that is underneath the blade.

Q.   Do you have a record against Canadian players?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, I played last year against a player with a one‑handed backhand; I beat him.   But I didn't play often against Canadian players.
Tomorrow it's going to be Raonic.   He's the best Canadian player, so I'm happy.

Q.   I have a question that has nothing to do with your match.   What do you think about the new rules that the ATP is going to implement in the beginning of the year, the let, etcetera? 
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, time is there already, it's just that the umpires are really not complying with that rule.   Maybe they want to enforce it a bit more, but they are very few players that take a long time between two points. 
And also, you have to take into account the conditions.   When you play in Australia it's extremely hot and you're playing the fifth set and the two players are extremely tired.
Instead of taking 30 seconds you take 35; it doesn't change much.   Sometimes both players need a bit more time.   So it's all right to have a rule, but the umpire is the one who has to make decisions and maybe adapt the rule and be more flexible according to the circumstances.
Indoors of course you don't play long rallies, so if someone takes too long then it's a problem and you need to sanction it.

Q.   And the let thing?
JEREMY CHARDY:   That is very strange.   First they're going to start this for challengers.   I don't know if there is a let ball some points will be won or lost easily. 
I always played with that rule about the let, and if tomorrow let doesn't count anymore, I don't know what's going to happen.   I just send back the ball just like this. 
This is an important rule to change.   This is during the playing, when we are playing the point, and it's a bit strange to have that kind of rule.
I'm not sure they're going to keep that rule.

Q.   Among all the victories that helped you increase your ranking, is there a particular match that you remember that was really good for you?
JEREMY CHARDY:   I remember the American tour, but that's where I built up my confidence because I beat very good players.   And also, I won easily against players that were less ranked than I was and I was confident.
So this showed that I was able to beat good players, but also that I was solid because I was able to play well against lower‑ranked players.   And today again I played well.
This is something I worked on, trying to increase my tennis level and be more consistent.

Q.   And against Tsonga?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, I broke him first game.   After it was 6‑4, 7‑6.   He didn't play his best match.   I played a solid match.   I served well.   What I did well in the second part of the year is that I was playing solid in all my matches almost.
This was why I was able to improve my ranking.

Q.   A year ago here you said that you were leaving the Fontan era behind you. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   Well, it's not totally over; I can't say it's the past yet.   But what I want to do is focus on my tennis.   I concentrated on what I have to do.   When I went to the academy I was able to create a whole team around me to help me, and I am confident again.
I think that is the most important thing.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT