ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 28, 2019
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. CHARDY/S. Querrey   
5-7, 6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  Are you happy with your game, because now you are on the main draw, especially after the qualifications?  
JEREMY CHARDY: I will not talk only about this match because there have been three, actually, and the level of the three players was completely different each time. Today, he served very well, Sam, and he's taking a lot of risks. So I had to remain focused.   
I made one mistake during the first set, 40-Love. I shouldn't have been broken. It was totally my mistake, but I managed to forget it and to keep focused in my patterns, and then I felt better and better on court. And I'm very happy to have won.   
 Q.  It must be very hard and exhausting to play against such a player?  
JEREMY CHARDY: You know it. Sometimes it's frustrating. You start well, and then you get aces and winner serves. He serves very well, I know. I knew it before the match.   
It's a huge match where you have not a lot of leeway and you have to seize every opportunity.   
 Q.  How do you feel, especially regarding your foot?  
JEREMY CHARDY: As you said, it's the end of the season, so I'm not thinking about it anymore that much. I know it's my last tournament. I'm at home. So I'm doing everything I can.   
 Q.  You haven't done such achievements here so far. Is it related to the fact that you're tired at the end of the season or to the conditions of the tournament? Why have you never achieved much during such a tournament?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, Masters are never easy. Every match is difficult to win. The surface was faster some years as well. I don't always like it because there were cannonballs all around.   
And then even if you play well in the Masters series, you can play well and yet lose. So it's hard to go further down the draw because you always have to play against someone who's better than you. So it's always hard.   
 Q.  Well, the next opponent is a huge player, Medvedev.  
JEREMY CHARDY: He is one of the fittest players right now. He's done so many matches back to back. He's playing very well. Since this summer, he hasn't lost a lot of matches.   
I know that it will be tough. It will be a nice challenge for me. I'm definitely an underdog. But I have done three good matches so far. I have nothing to lose.   
I'm going to try and play as well as I can, taking risks, try things out. And we never know, because things can turn out. This is the good thing about this sport.   
 Q.  What about your collaboration with Cedric? How do you collaborate? Because he's a consultant with Eurosport, do you see each other often?  
JEREMY CHARDY: I'm delighted that he's part of the team now. He's bringing a lot of things to me and helps me with my game. I'm very happy to work with him. We've worked for quite a few weeks now together. And we started mid-season, so we haven't had a lot of off-season work together.   
Then, in December, we'll have a long period of time to practice together, and I hope -- well, I know that we will spend a lot of time together in November and December. And I know we'll practice, and we'll be able to continue with what we started and gain momentum.   
 Q.  You said once that the best game point was in Rome against Federer. How about tonight? Is it one of the best because it was flabbergasting?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, I didn't want to have any regrets. Sometimes when you play this type of player, when it's an important point, you hesitate. And I really said, I have to take my chances.   
In terms of percentages, he certainly played more in the T. So if it's off, I said, okay. But he's in the T, then I have to get it. So this is why I was very much ahead, and I managed to get the ball very quickly.   
And not all game points are like this. But when it's a match as tough as this one and to do such a stroke on the game point, well, you make it known to everyone.   
 Q.  This changes a little bit your overview of the season. You have often done big matches, but you didn't always have the upper hand. How do you assess this?  
JEREMY CHARDY: My season could have been better or less good.   
Then again, that's why I was more consistent throughout the season, I have to say, this year. My game level was higher than before. I've done good matches. There were some of them where I actually managed to get my best level. Then I didn't manage to win back to back every time, but I'm still happy with my season.   
I managed to make my game evolve. I'm on the right path. I have an average level, but yet I think I managed to step up my game. Between an average season and a very good season, sometimes it's only a matter of a few matches.   
So I'm very happy about the work that I've accomplished. I'm very happy with the members on my team. I'm not that young anymore, so I'm still motivated. I still want to take a lot of pleasure in playing, and I like it.   
It's easier for me to travel and practice every day with people I like, so I'm glad about the people on my team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT