WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2012
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. CHARDY/A. Murray
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You have been playing very well lately, especially today.   What do you attribute this recent rise in form to?
JEREMY CHARDY:   I think I win many matches since the beginning of the year, so I take confidence.   Last week I beat Jo‑Wilfried, this week I beat Andy Roddick first one.   So my confidence go up again. 
Now I feel very good on court, and I play very relax.   It's good when I feel like this on the court.

Q.   Andy said he felt like you were going for your shots today.   Was that part of your strategy to beat him?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, for sure.   He play very well, so my only chance is to play, to change the rhythm all the time.   When I have a good balls, I have to go for it all the time.   I do it, and I think I played a perfect match today.   So I'm very happy.

Q.   Are you targeting Olympic medalists?   Jo last week, silver medal; Andy, gold medal; next is Del Potro, bronze medal. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   (Smiling.)   It's good if I can beat everybody.   So I don't think about that.   I stay focused on my game and on me, and I will see tomorrow on the court.

Q.   I saw your match against Fognini in quallies, and near the end you two had some words.   Can you share what that was about?
JEREMY CHARDY:   It was a tough match for me, because I just arrive Saturday after Toronto.   So I was very tired.   Against Ginepri, I know if I win it I can be lucky loser, so it was important match. 
After I know it before the match I will be lucky loser.   He played very good match, and I was very nervous.   I didn't feel so good on the court.   So I make many mistake. 
It's tennis.   Some day you came up, and after you feel better in your head and physical and you play so much better.

Q.   What's your coaching situation?   Right now who are you traveling with and who is working with you?
JEREMY CHARDY:   For the last three weeks I traveled with my physical coach.   I have a tennis coach, but he's not here.   He's coming for NewYork next week.
I practicing in Academy Mouratoglou in Paris.

Q.   Do you work a lot with Patrick?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Last year he was coaching me for all the year; this year we stop doing to work together.
He's like my friend but is still in contact with me all the time, and when I need something, I just can speak with him.   So it's good.

Q.   Seems like there is a lot of camaraderie between people of that academy, especially I think Dimitrov was there watching you today. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, we have good atmosphere in the academy.   With Dimitrov we are close friends.   He's happy for me.   The people from the academy come to see my match and support me. 
I think it's nice when you are in tournament and many people from the academy can support you.   It's always good support.   You feel better.

Q.   How much of an advantage do you think it was for you to play two qualifying matches before you played your first round here as opposed to the rest of the field that's just getting here from other places?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Sorry, I don't understand the beginning.

Q.   You played two qualifying matches before your first round. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah.

Q.   You played somebody in the main draw who didn't play any matches here. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, I think sometimes it's good to play qually, because you're used to play on the court and you can see what do you like on the court, where you feel good.
So I learned a lot during the qually.   So I change a little bit my game.   I play a little bit slow with my backhand and more higher with my forehand with big spin.   After, I come in the court and I go for it. 

Q.   What are your thoughts on your next round?   Playing Del Po, do you know he's injured his left wrist?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, somebody tell me he got problem with the wrist.   He win today.   (Smiling.)   Maybe it changed, but he still win against a good player because he beat Troicki. 
For me, the best thing to do is stay focused on my game and me and forget about this.   Prepare my tactic for tomorrow, and when I go to the court I will do my best.   If he get the problem, it's better for me.

Q.   You will be facing a lot of slice backhand.   You know that?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, yeah.   If he get a problem, he will do it a lot of slice.   But I don't know.   I will see the tactic later.

Q.   You mentioned in qualifying you got a chance to learn a little bit and made some adjustments to your game in terms of playing.   How are you finding the speed of the courts here in Cincinnati?
JEREMY CHARDY:   The court are okay, not so fast.   I like it because the bounce of the ball sits high.   So it's good for my game. 
I think it's not too fast.   It's good.   For me, it's good. 

Q.   Have you seen Serena practicing at the academy at all?   She's working a little bit with Patrick. 
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, yeah.   I saw her after French Open.   She come for two or three weeks.   I don't remember. 
So I was there and she was practicing next to me.   She want to try to return my service, so...   (Laughing.) 

Q.   Any success?
JEREMY CHARDY:   Sometimes. 
She's very nice.   I didn't know her at the beginning.   Now she's a good person, and I think she's good for the tennis. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT