ROGERS CUP MEN
August 6, 2012
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. CHARDY/D. Young
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how you clawed your way back into that match today after losing the opening set?   And knowing your opponent has such a losing streak going, does that factor in to your confidence after dropping the first set?  
JEREMY CHARDY:   I think I start the match very nervous so I didn't play very well.   I have many opportunity, but I didn't do it.   
But after the first set, I stay focus on my game.   I have to play more relax and go more for it.   I have many chance on second set, and finally I win 7‑5.   
After, I start to be very relaxed.   After two break up he stop to play, so the finish was easy for me.   
   
 Q.   Were you aware of his losing streak coming into the match?   
JEREMY CHARDY:   Yeah, I know he's not with a big confidence because he lost many match on first round.   So I knew know it before the match, so I know I have to fight on every point.  
If I have chance, I can turn the match for me.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your match with Tsonga on Wednesday.   
JEREMY CHARDY:   I know Jo very well.   I play already once against him.   He's a very good player.   He serve very well.  
I think the tactic against him, I have to play the game.   If I wait and he can play his game, it will be easy match for him.   So I have to take my chance and serve very well.   
On the return I have to go full power directly, because if I wait, it's too late for me.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever had a losing streak anything similar to what Donald Young is going through right now?   
JEREMY CHARDY:   I don't know how many match he lost.  
THE MODERATOR:   16.  
JEREMY CHARDY:   Oh, 16 is a lot.   I didn't know that.   I know he lost many match on first round, but not 16.  
I think 16, it's tough for him, because when you start to lose every match you lost your confidence.   
I think for him the best way maybe to come back to challenger to win some matches.   Sometimes in tennis can be fast, so if you win some matches, after they are shorter.  
   
 Q.   What was the longest you had?  
JEREMY CHARDY:   I don't know.   I prefer to forget it.   (Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT