MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 10, 2011
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 I. LJUBICIC/J. Chardy
  6-1, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
  
  Q. It seemed out there you had to improve many shots like your serve...   
 JEREMY CHARDY: Yes. It's not easy for me. I lost my game and he played a very good match.   
  
  Q. You seemed to be more confident during the U.S. summer. Now do you have doubts again?   
 JEREMY CHARDY: Yes, I was feeling better. But after the Davis Cup, I had personal problems that made me lose my confidence. I think it shows on the court.   
 I was feeling good and happy with my game, and now things are more difficult. Fortunately, my girlfriend, my parents, all the people from the academy are helping me a lot.   
 I'm practicing very hard, and I hope I will be able to play better again.   
  
  Q. On top of these difficulties, the draw was not easy for you here. How did you manage the situation?   
 JEREMY CHARDY: In any Masters 1000 tournament, every match is a difficult match. With the level I played today, I believe I could have lost against many players.   
 But he's a good player. It was not easy against him.   
  
  Q. So the situation is tough for you at present. What are you going to do to change it around?  
 JEREMY CHARDY: It is tough, but I'm practicing a lot and I enjoy practicing and working. As soon as I'll feel better, I'm sure I'm going to play a lot better, too.   
  
  Q. When you started working with Patrick, did you have a specific deadline in mind while you were changing things in your game?  
 JEREMY CHARDY: I chose Patrick because I trust him. In tennis, when you start working on your shots, you need some time before you can really integrate them into your game.   
 I trust the people I'm working with because I chose them. If we have good results very soon, it's all the better.   
  
  Q. Before you used to work sports psychologist. Do you still do that now?   
 JEREMY CHARDY: No. Now I'm in the academy and I work there. Last year already I was not working with a sports psychologist because on the mental side of things I don't have problems.   
  
  Q. What are you going to do in the next days or week?   
 JEREMY CHARDY: I'm still playing the doubles here. Next week I'll go to the academy. After that, I'm playing Estoril. Madrid is going to come up later, but I'm not thinking about that right now.   
 I need to play, so I might play a few challengers before.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT