MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 12, 2010
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. GOLUBEV/J. Chardy
  6-2, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions in French. 

 Q. What happened? You had difficulties in playing really into the match? 
 JEREMY CHARDY: If it was only at the beginning, it would have been nice, but it was the whole game. It's hard on a clay court. I made a lot of mistakes, errors, in the net. I still have a lot of work to do with my footwork on clay court to play well there. I did a lot of errors and mistakes. 
We can't say that he played very well either. I think, well, it was not a very good game and I have to work a lot to play better. 

 Q. What about training? How long did you have? 
 JEREMY CHARDY: Well, I arrived on Tuesday evening. I played from Wednesday until yesterday. 

 Q. Did you have the impression that you were back on track? 
 JEREMY CHARDY: Well, there was some phases that went fine, but there were some phases where I didn't play very well. 
 I didn't feel comfortable, so it's quite normal that I didn't feel comfortable on the court today. I had no references. I did not serve to have forehands afterwards, so I made a lot of errors. That's the way it is. The forehand is actually my strength and I have to play with that if I want to win. 
 It's with my forehand that I will win the match. I have to continue and play a lot of them to win. 

 Q. There was one point where I could see you were saying to yourself, Stop playing tense. You were very tense, but you continued. 
 JEREMY CHARDY: Yes. It's true, with my forehand, I was very tense. At one point I tried to smash the ball far away, but I couldn't manage to find the right height, so there was no stroke on which I could rely. 
 On a clay court, it's important to be able to rely on some strokes to be able to neutralize the court in the right areas. 
 On each stroke, I could lose, and the other one felt it. I don't know what to say. 

 Q. Every year you seem to have difficulties playing on the clay courts. 
 JEREMY CHARDY: Yes, it's true. Sometimes I can manage quicker than others. It's true, every time I play on clay courts, I'm confused because there are more rallies, it goes quicker, I don't know which I should attack, when I have to neutralize the ball. And with my backhand, I have to be quicker. 
 Sometimes there are things that I have to do afterwards, and sometimes there are things I have to do first on a clay court. It's very difficult. Sometimes I have to go towards the net. I see that I'm too far away. I can see that on the clay court, I can be too far away from the net. 
 Sometimes when I hit, I see that actually I have to neutralize. I don't make the right choices. Honestly, I didn't know what to do. I was lost during the whole game. I tried to find a solution, but I didn't have the strokes ready.

 Q. How many forehand strokes do you need to be ready? 
 JEREMY CHARDY: I don't know. I don't know. Last year I started to play well from Munich. Three weeks, plus one week of preparation, so four weeks, I started to play well from that time. 
 This year I thought I could manage better. The fact that I've lost so early, well, I shouldn't be too negative about my defeat. I can take this opportunity to work and to adjust my game. I lost. I cannot say anything. I can't do anything anymore. The only thing I have to do is go to the court and try to adjust my game. 

 Q. How many hours a day? 
 JEREMY CHARDY: I don't know. It's the coach who will decide. I don't know. 
 But for sure I have to train because after such a game, I'm so disappointed. It's very hard to get out of a match like this, in such a tournament, where everybody wants to play well. It's hard. 

 Q. Did you have a lot of pressure, because it was a clay court?
 JEREMY CHARDY: No. Well, last year I played well, so I know I can play well. But I also know that it's very hard for me to adjust to a clay court. So I have to adjust my game. 
 Of course, I'm very disappointed. It's hard for me to get out of this game and to see that I didn't go very high in my level of game. 

 Q. What about next week? Barcelona, right? 
 JEREMY CHARDY: Yes. I think I'm going to stay here to train and then I'll go directly to Barcelona afterwards. 

 Q. So the season's start was quite busy?
 JEREMY CHARDY: Yeah, well, that's part of a career actually. Since the beginning, I've never had any problems. So here I have to learn to manage that. What happens, in a career that I hope will last long, there will always be things that happen. I have to learn to manage them, and that's it. 
 I have to bounce back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT