MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 13, 2009
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. MONACO/J. Chardy
  6-2, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You started slowly but played better in the second set.   
 JEREMY CHARDY: In the beginning I hadn't found my rhythm. I tried to play my game during the whole match, but in the beginning I was making mistakes. After my game became more automatic and I made fewer mistakes.   
 I changed the rhythm, trying to approach the net more. I wanted shorter rallies, because from the baseline I was getting out of breath. I'm happy because I'm going in the right direction. I mixed it up well from the baseline and I went up to the net because that's where my shots are the best.   
  
  Q. But on clay you need to be able to defend from the baseline.   
 JEREMY CHARDY: Yes, but today I was not fit enough.   
  
  Q. Do you have problems physically?  
 JEREMY CHARDY: I've been sick for four days. I had a fever. Todays the first day without a fever. And I have a sore throat.   
  
  Q. Were you sick in Houston, as well?   
 JEREMY CHARDY: No, it was a different reason.   
 The morning before my match, I heard that my grandfather was going to die soon, so I wasn't focused on tennis.   
 For this match today I knew as soon as the rallies were going to be long, it was going to be difficult for me. He didn't give away any points. He was playing three meters above the net and taking no risks. I should have been more patient.   
 In the second set I was able to wait for the right moment to go up to the net. I was more in control. I hope I'm going to feel better again very soon and that I'll be ready for Barcelona.   
  
  Q. Otherwise you are fit physically?  
 JEREMY CHARDY: I feel good. I improved my physical condition very much. I played many tournaments, I know, but I am still very eager to play and to win. Since I lost first round here, I now have time to work on my game.   
  
  Q. You were discovered by the French public in the French Open last year. Do you feel they are going to have expectations?  
 JEREMY CHARDY: Yes, I know those who saw me last year will want me to do well this year, too. Since I played well in the French Open last year, I'm really happy to go back there again and I'll try to arrive being 100%. But there are only good players there, so it's going to be difficult. But I'll try to go as far as possible.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT