ROLEX MONTE-CARLO MASTERS
April 15, 2019
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. KUKUSHKIN/J. Chardy   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  Was it the traveling?  Because you arrived from Houston when exactly?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Saturday evening.  And of course it was not the ideal situation to play, but I really wanted to play here.   
It is fair to say that he played a really good match.  He managed to break me very soon, and I couldn't break him even if I had two opportunities in two games.  I had good feelings at certain points, but I couldn't really make it and he didn't make many mistakes.   
 Q.  This is the first time that you are working with Cedric Pioline?  Tell us about it.  Why him?  
JEREMY CHARDY: He's going to be here during this time and up until Roland, and I have already worked with him during the Davis Cup and we have talked about my tennis during the Davis Cup.  I really like the way he sees my -- well, the way he sees tennis in general and the way he sees my tennis in particular.  I talked about it with my coach, and we decided to work with Cedric.   
Cedric agreed, and so we all together decided to try during all of this period, and I'm sure he's going to help me improve my game.  And the fact of losing today will leave me with two weeks of preparation with him.  I will be working on some things, and he will help me during all the clay tournaments.   
 Q.  What is it precisely that you like about his way of seeing tennis?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, you have to ask him.  (Laughter.)  No, seriously, he has lots of experience.  He has won lots of tournaments.  Now, as for my game, I think my tennis is very good but I could be stronger.   
So we have talked about many aspects of my tennis that we could improve, and of course I'm not going to tell you everything about it, but I'm very happy.  We have a specific period of time.  We have decided to go together from now until the end of Roland Garros, and maybe we will continue until the end of the year.   
In any case, I get on very well with him.  That is a very good thing.  And I'm very happy that he agreed to work with me and that he's going to work with me during all these weeks.   
 Q.  He's got a fantastic one-handed backhand.  Do you think he's going to ask you to do the same?  Because you have a two-handed backhand, which is very good.  Is he going to try to make you change from a two-handed backhand to a one-handed backhand?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, he's got that project for me to make me change from two-handed to one-handed backhand.  (Laughter.)   
But in any case, I think I will have to change all my technique, the way I hold a racquet and everything.  Well, it will take some time.  (Laughter.)   
No, seriously, I think he can help me with my backhand, of course, because that's his best shot and is my worst shot.  So that's something good.  In any case, in general, he has many things to give to me, tactically speaking, and in regards to general vision of the tennis, that's for sure.   
 Q.  So it's been difficult for you to start well this season.  You have had difficult matches that you may have won, and then last week you lost in Houston and the five match points.  
JEREMY CHARDY: I feel fine physically.  I have played good matches, difficult matches, but it is true that I need a little something so that I can have one or two victories and then have enough confidence to continue on a winning streak.   
You were saying the five match points and I couldn't be able to win, that is frustrating.  It was actually one of the most frustrating weeks I had, so sometimes it takes just one week to have your confidence back and be able to win again, so I hope it is going to happen soon.   
I have to continue.  I think I'm playing good tennis and let's hope for the best.   
 Q.  Court No. 1 is going to be destroyed at Roland Garros, and many players have told me that the sound in that court was great.  What do you think?  What do you think of that court?  Are you going to be nostalgic about Court No. 1?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Yes, that will be nostalgic, definitely, because I have played most of my matches on that court, because I was always second to one of the best French players, so I always played on Court 1.  (Laughter.)   
Of course I will probably have tears in my eyes, because I have lots of great memories.  So the first French players were ahead of me, and then I always got to play on Court No. 1.  I would say 80% of my matches were played on that court and I am sad that it's going to be destroyed.   
At the same time, there was a nice noise, as you said.  There was a great ambience, great atmosphere, and the public was very close to the court so they were really engaged.  They were really into the match.  That helps a lot.  And very often that public are the real tennis fans, the public that couldn't pay for the two big courts.  They are very happy to be in Court No. 1, and they are really cheering for the French players.   
So that's a chapter that is closed, finished, and I hope that the new court is going to be nice and I hope that the new court will have such a great atmosphere.  I haven't seen it yet, but apparently it's a very nice one.   
 Q.  You were talking about the public.  There was someone in the public who couldn't stop saying, "Jeremy!  Jeremy!"  Have you met that person?  It's a man.  What do you think of that man?  He's a little bit particular, isn't he?  
JEREMY CHARDY: You have such questions, really.  (Laughter.)   
Yes, I have met him already, and he's a real tennis fan.  Although he shouts "Jeremy!  Jeremy!" off-beat, he's always there.  He buys his tickets, and he's well known.  He's actually more well known than many of the players in Roland Garros.  (Laughter.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT