BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 2, 2019
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. CHARDY/N. Kyrgios   
6-7, 6-2, 6-3   
 Q.  Congratulations on your win.  How do you feel you played out there today?  
JEREMY CHARDY: I think I played really good, really solid from the beginning.  I was really focused on my service game, because I know against Nick it would be difficult.  He's an amazing player and he serves so well.  I didn't have any chance to return him for a long time during this match.  But, yeah, I knew before the match it would be just a couple of points that could make the difference.  In the first set there was just one point in the tiebreak and lose the set.  And after, I just continue my game, and I am really happy to get the win today.   
 Q.  Do you think it was important for you to be able to out-serve him today knowing how big his serve is for him and how big a weapon it is for him?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Yeah.  My best shot is my serve, too.  And this match is about pressure, so if you so both players are serving good, you need to put the pressure on the other one all the time.  And if you don't have any chance, you have to wait for tiebreak, and after I did the first set, I was like, okay, just continue what you're doing, and if you don't have a chance, we will go to the tiebreak again.  So, yeah, I'm really happy with my results today.   
 Q.  Very good.  How do you feel Nick played?  
JEREMY CHARDY: I mean, I feel like he served amazing.  He's serve amazing most of the match.  Just one game he got tight a little bit and I get the chance and I made it.  So that was the key of the second set, the second break he gave it to me.  So that was -- I mean it is not because I play good.   
 Q.  You played very well.  
JEREMY CHARDY: But the third set, I mean it was a really close one, too, and just I did one really good return on 30-all and after give me the break point, and he went for massive second serve and then miss-hit.  It's always better when you don't have to play the break point.  But now, I see when he serves like this, he can beat anyone.   
 Q.  So next up you're playing Uchiyama from Japan.  He beat Kyle Edmund this morning.  Do you know much about Uchiyama?  I know you've never played him before.  
JEREMY CHARDY: No.  I don't know him at all.  I don't know him at all.  I don't know how he plays.  The only thing I know he has to be a good player to beat Kyle Edmund, because Kyle is really good.  So, no, I going to watch some video of him and I will prepare my match later for tomorrow.   
 Q.  And, finally, second match of the year.  What are you hoping to achieve in 2019?  
JEREMY CHARDY: I mean I start to be older now on Tour.  I am already 32.  So for me, I love to play tennis.  I practice really hard in the off season.  And I just want to enjoy.  And when I'm on court and I feel good, when you play on a nice court like this with a good crowd, you're just going to enjoy tennis.  And that's the most important for me.  Every time I go on court I try to give 100 percent.  Don't want to have any regrets when I leave the court, and for sure when you win is good for me, for my team, for my family.   
So, yeah, I just want to fight.  The goal, you know, I always want to finish top 50, and my best ranking was 25.  So maybe why not my best ranking this year?  But, yeah, I just feel good, and I hope I will have a good Australian Open, too.  It's my best visit so far there.  So maybe it's a lucky year again.   
 Q.  Very good.  Well done today.  Good luck the rest of the tournament.  
JEREMY CHARDY: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT