ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 30, 2018
Jeremy Chardy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
F. VERDASCO/J. Chardy   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  The match wasn't easy.  He's playing well.  What is your feeling after this match?  
JEREMY CHARDY: It was not easy.  I wasn't playing very well.  But I was happy to play.  I had an injury in Shanghai so I was still happy to play again.  I thought that I would manage better.   
And then I had a shaky game.  Sometimes I played well.  Sometimes I didn't.  I didn't seize opportunities.  I didn't have a consistent game.  So I didn't manage to win.   
 Q.  On the grass you did quite well.  Then on the hard surface it was more difficult.  Are you a bit disappointed by the end of the summer or not?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Not really.  The last matches I didn't lose against good players.  I lost against Anderson, against Djokovic in Shanghai, for instance.  They're very good players; so they are tough matches, you know.   
I felt quite good.  I am quite happy about my season.  I had some difficulties but then I went back well.  I'm quite satisfied overall of what I have achieved.  I will try to prepare myself as much as I can because for the last two seasons I couldn't train.  And I hope that this time I will manage to train well to be ready for next season, especially from the physical point of view.   
 Q.  Do you know where you're heading?  
JEREMY CHARDY: You mean for the training?   
 Q.  Yes.  
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, Xavier, my coach, and I have worked together already in the past on the physical training.  We've discussed, the three of us, on what I wanted to do on my game.  I think we're ready.   
 Q.  The last match in Italy, you were there.  Are you expecting something?  In which state of mind are you?  
JEREMY CHARDY: I haven't had any news that shouldn't be a good omen.  I haven't played very well over the last weeks.  So I don't know.  You know, indoor clay is my best surface.  It's a pity there's no indoor clay, but still, that's where I played the best.  And maybe my only opportunity.   
 Q.  Because it's a very good opportunity because on outdoor clay you're very good.  Either you're on holidays or you're going to train on clay; right?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Yes, this is what is hard to manage.  I'm on holidays right now until Brisbane next year.  Something very important can happen, something major can happen.  I will have to know at one point.   
 Q.  Don't you want to inquire about this?  
JEREMY CHARDY: I'll have to ask the question indeed.  Because I can't wait like this without knowing whether I'm on holidays or not.  And for my training as well, because if I have to play, I have to know.  I was wounded and now I feel better again.   
If I have to be part of the team, I have to prepare physically on clay to play long sessions, long matches.  So it's not the same thing if I'm on holidays or if I'm a member of the team.   
 Q.  That's the same thing for the Davis Cup; right?  Sometimes you're in, sometimes you're out.  
JEREMY CHARDY: This is what is good about the team.  There are a lot of good players.  It depends on the surface as well.   
So it's hard.  When I was young, I was always with the four in front of me; Jo-Wilfried, Richard, Gael, and Gilles.  They were always ahead of me.  Even when I was ranked 25 or 30, they were always ahead of me.  It wasn't easy for me to find my place and to be a member of the Davis Cup team.  But then I played a lot when I was on clay.  That's my only added value.   
 Q.  Also in Monte Carlo you lost against Cilic but you had a great match there.  Is it also an asset or not?  
JEREMY CHARDY: So it's better when you win.  If you play and you never win, then it's always a problem.  There are other people in the team who have played against them and who have lost.  These are things that need to be taken into consideration, of course.   
But we have chosen the surface.  It will be on clay and I think we have to take advantage of this, and to be as ready as possible for this tournament.  We only have three weeks left.  We have to train and be ready.   
I think it's a great advantage with regards to our opponents, especially Cilic, who is going to play the Masters, an indoor.   
 Q.  Do you think that clay is their favorite surface?  For Cilic we could presume, but what about the other?  
JEREMY CHARDY: Well, going from indoor to clay is always hard, no matter who.  Of course, it can be difficult, but it's also a matter of physical training.  It's a matter of angles of game.   
As for Coric, there will be no difference whether he plays on hard court or on clay court.  For these reasons, I think it's a good choice.  Cilic is less good on hard court than on clay.  And for doubles, I don't think they will manage as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT