SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2013
Brian Fogt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I know your round probably wasn't what you wanted, but just talk about it a little bit.   You birdied 1, right?
BRIAN FOGT:   Well, that was my 10th hole.   My one and only birdie. 
Yeah, no excuses, I have assign in my teaching studio that says, excuses only sound good to the people making them.   So I'm not going to make any excuses.   I just never got anything going and in this type of scenario, the golf course isn't going to let up.   I tried to play good on the back nine and am very disappointed with how I finished.   I was 1‑under through four or five holes on the back, but yeah, just a very, very ‑‑ I was very, very excited and grateful to play, obviously.   Just very disappointed with how I finished up.   I wasn't very competitive on the scoring. 

Q.   Recap your week here.   What it was like?   Obviously you got your friends and family, you know everybody here at Bellerive.   Kind of cap up the week for us. 
BRIAN FOGT:   Yeah, that was the amount of support and encouragement that I got was overwhelming in a good way.   But just like my high school basketball coach said, we played in a very crowd hostile for the other team environment and he would say, home court advantage is only good if you play good.   I didn't play good, so having my home court advantage really didn't come into play this week. 
So it was, I can't remember shooting anywhere remotely close to scores like that in a, in any kind of tournament or a championship and so that's very frustrating.   In some regards, if I had to do it over, inches I would have kept my normal schedule.   Kept giving lessons right up until the tournament.   I'm serious.   And in some ways I think I made too big a deal out of it.   Put too much pressure on myself.   And I obviously felt I wanted to represent Bellerive well and didn't feel like I did that with my play.   Hopefully I did with my demeanor.   Still it's a blessing to get to do this.   Play here on my home track.   I hope this isn't the last Senior PGA I get to compete in, because I've got some revenge. 
(Laughter.)

Q.   Obviously just thinking about it, what are you going to do tomorrow?
BRIAN FOGT:   I'll be manning the range or I'll be a standard bearer, I don't know, I'm going to find out from the, my comrades what I'm sure I'll be doing something in some capacity out here.   So, I may caddie, I don't know. 
(Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT