NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: ST. LOUIS
March 17, 2016
Joel Bolomboy
Jeremy Senglin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Weber State student-athletes Jeremy Senglin and Joel Bolomboy.  Questions?
Q. Joel, now that you've had a chance to scout Xavier a little bit, what are your impressions of the big men on their team that you'll face tomorrow?
JOEL BOLOMBOY: They're just really tough and physical and athletic.
Q. How do they compare to the guys you've faced this year?
JOEL BOLOMBOY: They're a little more physical than the teams we played this year and way more athletic than the teams we've seen this year.
Q. You guys have won 26 games, if I'm not mistaken.  Do you feel like an underdog?
JEREMY SENGLIN: Yeah, we feel like an underdog because, I mean, Xavier is a big-name school and we're not that big of a name.  But that doesn't make us nervous or scared or anything.  We want to accept the challenge and take it.
Q. Joel, what are your impressions of Xavier?  You probably didn't watch them much in the regular season just by virtue of time and conference, but now that you've had a chance to study them, what do you think?
JOEL BOLOMBOY: I think they're a good team, but I also think we're a good team ourselves.  We just have to come in and play the way we play and do what we've been doing all season, come in and compete, and be ready to play.
Q. Weber State has a couple of huge upsets in this tournament historically.  Is that something that you guys have talked about much, about the possibility of going out and shocking the world tomorrow?
JEREMY SENGLIN: Yeah, we heard about it, and they brought that up.  But I mean, we're not that team in the past.  So we've got to make our own story and do our own thing.
JOEL BOLOMBOY: Yeah, we definitely want to pull this upset off, and to do that we just have to be the team that we are now.  The past teams that have done it, those are different teams.  Just the team we have now we've got to come out ready to play and just get the job done.
Q. Jeremy, last year you were 13-17 and you two were the leading scorers.  What's different this year with the team that you're able to be so successful?
JEREMY SENGLIN: I feel like we're just more together as a team this year.  We've got some new pieces that helped us out a lot this year, different shooters and defenders, and that just helped out all around.
Q. Fellas, seems like you have a pretty good relationship with Damian Lillard, you guys and your team.  Has he contacted you and given you advice if so what?
JOEL BOLOMBOY: Well, he hasn't talked to me.  I'm not sure if he's contacted anybody else.
JEREMY SENGLIN: Before the season he was telling us we've got to stay confident and play together as a team.  But since we've been in this tournament situation, he hasn't contacted anybody.
Q. What's been so good about your defense this year?
JOEL BOLOMBOY: Just everybody has each other's back and we're just long and athletic and we hold down the paint.  We rebound really well and we get it and push it.  On the team misses we push out in transition.
Q. I don't know if you guys paid attention to any of the scores today.  But Yale beat Baylor.  When you see a score like that, does that excite you when you see something like that, and say why not us?  Why can't we do something like that?
JEREMY SENGLIN: Yeah, that gives us confidence, of course, seeing a smaller seed beat a bigger seed.  But, that's another team.  Yale's their team and we're us.  So just because they did it,  we just gotta believe in ourselves.  We're not them.
JOEL BOLOMBOY: Yeah, that gives us a little more confidence.  But no team is unbeatable.  Every team in this tournament can lose at any given moment.  So we've just got to come in ready to play.
Q. Joel, can you talk about the development of your play to the point now where NBA teams are giving you looks, from when you first got on campus at Weber State?
JOEL BOLOMBOY: From when I first got on campus I came in about just 205 pounds.  I was really long, lanky, skinny, just athletic.  I was really raw.  Over the years I've been able to put about 35 pounds on, all muscle.  I increased my vertical.  I've just gotten better, stronger, faster, more explosive every year.  And my confidence has gone up every year, too, and I've just gotten better and better.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT