NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 20, 2012
Henrik Lundqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   I'm so happy right now, to win.   Like I said on the stage, to be on that list with a couple of my heroes, with Patrick and Dominik and Marty, great careers.   
So it feels good.   And it's been a goal for me and a dream for a long time to try to win.  
   
 Q.   Being nominated for the Hart, are you disappointed?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   No, I think Malkin deserved it.   He was just outstanding this year.   Dominated for a long time this year, and personally I was just happy to be nominated.   I didn't expect to win, and this one means a lot.   
   
 Q.   Thankful for the delay in the broadcast?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Yes.   And probably the producer's happy, too.   (Laughter).   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the year that Jonathan Quick had (indiscernible).   
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   I watched the last game and I was the only one.   But I told him yesterday when I ran into him, it was just such an impressive year, the run they had as a team, but for him also in the Playoffs, it was very impressive to see, very consistent.   
And we played opposites almost.   He's so aggressive and comes out a lot.   I stay almost on the goal line.   But it shows you can play different styles, you just need to be consistent in the way you approach the game and how you play it.  
   
 Q.   (Question off Microphone)?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   I don't think I realized it yet.   Like you said, I'm up against two guys that have been playing great all year, putting up great numbers, so i was just hoping to win.   I've been here before and been nominated three times, every time it's just a great feeling to be recognized for what you do out there and people appreciate what you do.   It's always a good feeling.  
   
 Q.   Is there a sense of European pride with all the major awards this year being taken by Europeans?   
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   No, I don't think so.   You just think about it as‑‑ I don't know how to answer that.   We don't really take any pride in Europe against U.S. or Canada.   I mean, we're in this together.   And we just try to promote the sport I think, especially this week.   
It's all about having fun and meet the guys.   And like I said, to get the sport out there as much as possible.  
   
 Q.   Henrik, obviously the Playoffs, disappointing even for you and the Rangers.   How much does this take the sting out?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Not really, no.   This is a different thing.   I'm still disappointed the season ended the way it did.   I really thought we had a chance this year to win.   
But I mean, now you just try to learn something from it and then use motivation during the summer here and work harder and get better.   Because, yeah, we had a great year but it was not good enough.   So we have to improve.   
This will definitely give me even more motivation to keep working harder and improve my game and you want to stay up there.  
   
 Q.   Erik Karlsson wins the Norris Trophy.   You saw him in the Playoffs.   Can you give us your impression as a player, what do you think he'll turn into?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Turn into?   Right now he's one of the best defensemen in the world, and I think his biggest strength is his skating.   He's so fast.   That's why he can play the way he played.   He's aggressive and sometimes he takes chances.   But because of his speed, he can make up for it if something happens.   So he's a tough player to play against.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT