NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 25, 2012
Henrik Lundqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   It's always exciting to, in a game where it's all or nothing here, keep playing or go home.   And you just have to see it as an exciting game, great challenge, great opportunity instead of just a lot of pressure.  
   
 Q.   Do you see it as an even greater challenge considering maybe you didn't have the performance you wanted in the last game?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   You know, I don't think about the last game.   During the Playoffs, you don't look behind you.   You always look forward to the next game.   And whatever happens, the last game doesn't really matter, no.  
   
 Q.   Is it in the back of your mind at all that this could be elimination while you're playing, or do you just totally freeze that out?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Like I say, you try not to think about it.   You don't put more pressure on yourself.   You go out there and try to play your game and focus on the things you want to focus on.   Looking forward to the game.   
Of course, everybody knows it's an important game, but when you play, you try just to block everything out.  
   
 Q.   Is that the attitude of the team as a whole?   Your mindset is just don't worry about that sort of thing, confidence?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   That's the way I approach it.   But I think a lot of guys do the same thing.   When you play, you can't think about what's going to happen, win or lose.   You just have to go out there and focus on your job.   You play well when you do that.  
   
 Q.   You got a sense this is a loose team the last couple of days, the guys having fun out there?   I guess specifically in the practice yesterday, seemed like guys were fooling around a bit.   
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Well, we try to have fun at the same time.   It's a game, when you enjoy it and have fun, you play better.   Even though there's pressure and excitement, you try to enjoy it at the same time.  
   
 Q.   What has been your mechanisms for‑‑ you mentioned blocking out the pressure and the ideas of this elimination game.   Do you have any special ways of doing that, or is it just something mentally you have to do?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Well, it's something you‑‑ everybody's different.   Everybody has their own routine and way to approach it.   And I'm not going to change anything.   I try to do everything the way I always have been doing it the last few years.   
But the big thing, I think, like I said, you go out there and enjoy it and try to have fun at the same time.  
   
 Q.   Looking around the room, the way this team has gone this season and the way they've overcome distractions, does that give you a lot more confidence, too, going into games like this to see the way that the team's grown over the last few months?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   We've responded in really good ways in the Playoffs but also during the year.   So I see it as a great thing for us and good for our confidence.   We're playing a good team, so it's going to be a tough game.   But we know we can do it.   This is not over yet.   So we'll go out there and just try to play our best and see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT