NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 22, 2012
Henrik Lundqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Do you feel more added weight on your shoulders leaving in the wake of...
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   No.

Q.   You feel more excited. 
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   You get more and more excited each game and you know you're getting closer where you want to be.   But at the same time there's a lot of work ahead of us.
I just told these guys that my approach doesn't change but I try to go into every game the same way. 
And I think that helps me.

Q.   And to handle that win/loss?
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Exactly.   You want to try to get a balance there where you don't get too high or too low between games or during the game.   You have to approach it the same way.   You make concessions there.   Of course you feel the pressure, but you don't want to put too much pressure on yourself. 
You see it as a very challenging, very great opportunity in regards to the pressure.

Q.   The other way you're looking at it, this is what you prepared for, this is why you've rested more in the regular season than you have, be your best now?
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Fun time of the year.   No question.   Every game is so intense.   You definitely are more tired after each game during the regular season, more energy, more focus into each game.   It's exciting and you're ready to go again.   You want to be here.

Q.   Can you describe how more tired you feel, mentally, physically?   How can you tell how tired...
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   You just try to focus.   Physically you do pretty much the same things you do during the regular season.   But mentally you just try to focus even more to make good decisions.   That, for me, it's all about my mindset and the way I think, and my technique is not going to change over the next couple of weeks or even the past month, past few months.   It's all about how I function and how I think during the game and making decisions.   So it's all in my head.

Q.   How long did it take you to strike that balance, to find that mindset that you have now?   Did you have it when you first came in here, first started in the Playoffs?
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   I think you learn something, I've already said that but you learn something about yourself every year.   You go through something different.   You try and get better as a person.   And as a hockey player, you realize, okay, this is what works for me, and that's something, that I need to relax a little bit more.   But also getting a little older, I think it's easy to find that balance on the ice and off the ice.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT