NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 21, 2012
Henrik Lundqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   On Saturday, do you look at them and still think there's a way (indiscernible)?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Yeah.   Always play better.   Make better decisions out there.   I thought a couple of times I was a little lucky, I made the first move.   
I don't really think about that game now.   It's a new game.   I look forward to trying to get another victory here.   
But they're a good team.   So I think we have to improve some parts of our game.   But I think the best part about last game was the way we responded the second half and especially played in the third period.  
   
 Q.   Winning two in a row has been such a challenge for this team in the postseason for obvious reasons, but how good would it be kind of taking control of the series tonight?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Yes, it's obvious we're looking for another big W here.   And it is tough, because a lot of times the other team just responds in a desperate way and play real hard, and we just have to match it.   We have to realize how important this game is to all of us and play our best game in the series here.  
   
 Q.   Obviously the first goal is very important.   But it looks like in this series when the Rangers get that first goal, they become a completely different team.   It's almost like they're waiting to get that first one, then it happens and they just pop out.   Do you see that in front of you?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   I don't know.   I think it happens to a lot of teams.   When you get a goal, you get a little confidence and you let your game come to you instead of chase too much or try too hard to make that extra play.   You see it in a lot of games, Playoffs, when you can get a goal, you get a lead and you can kind of control things a little bit better.   
I don't think it only goes for us.   I think it's a lot of teams.  
   
 Q.   You expect to get a boost from your fans when you're at home.   But when you're on the road in Newark, the amount of support you get, what does that mean to you guys?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   It's great.   And we always have played there in Newark.   It's one of the things that makes it special to play these types of games, play New York teams.   We have a lot of support, and talked about it earlier, a couple days ago, that when you see the way that the fans react to things that happen during the game or even the results, it's exciting.   You can feel that excitement they have, especially to have that support.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT