NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: DEVILS v RANGERS
May 13, 2012
Henrik Lundqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you relish the chance to play against the Devils?   Does that come into your mind?   
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   I mean, there's so many things that make this series special.   First of all, it's the Conference Final.   That's number one.   It's a great feeling to be there.   We worked really hard to get there, so it's really exciting.   
And then playing the Devils, we've faced them a lot, so we know what to expect.   But it's a special feeling, absolutely.   And then on top of that, playing against a guy, Marty Brodeur, there's a lot of things that make this series a little bit special, I think.   
I think everybody is looking forward to it.   I'm very excited about it, no question, and we're going to do whatever we can here to beat them.   
   
 Q.   Do you like having just one day off?   
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Yeah, I like that, no thinking, just go at it right away.   Physically and mentally I feel great.   Last night it was really emotional and exciting, so you had the night to just kind of calm down, and today you're back here, and we'll start talking about the Devils and what to expect.   Right away you kind of forget about Washington and the whole series.   Now I'm looking forward to the next one and a new challenge.   
Yeah, I feel really excited about it.  
   
 Q.   Are you feeling it now that you are fresher?   
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Yeah, I said it earlier.   I think the biggest difference was during the year where I felt like I had more energy to push myself in practice and push my game.   So far in the Playoffs it's been good because we have a lot of days off and just manage practice.   A lot of times we take days off and just get the morning skate in on game days, just save energy.   But I feel good.   And I think it's a combination of a lot of different things.  
But playing less is definitely one of them.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you can still get better?   
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Absolutely.   I mean, the day you say you can't get better, I think it's time to quit.   You can always push yourself and improve your game, and you're always going to learn things about yourself, about the game, and as a person I think the last few years I'm realizing how things work I think when it comes to being able to relax and get away from the game.   When you're younger, I think you tend to, at least for me, that was the case, I was really intense all the time, and it kind of drained me a little bit.   But the last few years I've started to get a good feeling on and off the ice and find that balance.   
   
 Q.   Brodeur was saying this morning that you're the guy, and that he's got to raise his game to you.   Hearing that, do you relish something like that?   Does it bring more pressure?   How do you feel?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   You know, it's enough pressure as it is.   I don't have to add anything more.   But I can just say it's a great challenge for me to play against him and against them.   They've been tough to play against all year.   They've been playing well the last few series here.   
It's going to be a battle, that's for sure.   And their top guys, they look confident.   But I think we're a confident group right now.   We've been winning in different ways here the last few weeks, and I think it's going to be a lot different hockey, but I can't wait to go out there and play at home again and try to keep going.   
   
 Q.   You were asked about the one day off between series.   Does that affect or have an advantage or disadvantage for a goalie maybe than any other position on the ice just because you're in such a rhythm right now?   
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean, you can look at it in so many different ways.   Of course we're going to say it's good for us, they're going to say it's great for them because they got some rest in the long run.   But I think for us it is good.   We're in it right now.   We don't overthink anything, we're just going to go out and keep playing the way we've been playing lately, and I think the more time you spend just waiting to play, I think maybe you tend to overthink things.   I don't know, I just like the fact that we're back at it tomorrow again.   
   
 Q.   I guess another way to ask you is how comfortable or uncomfortable would you be if you were the one with six days off between games?   
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Just have to make sure you practice really hard and get the intensity up in practice.   That's it.   I don't think it's going to be a problem for anybody to be jacked up and be ready mentally or physically tomorrow because it's a lot on the line here, and I think everybody is so excited to be here and playing these types of games.   
   
 Q.   Does the rivalry complicate things?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   No, absolutely not.   I would say‑‑ I think in the Playoffs it's important you stay cool.   Obviously you're more excited and probably more nervous, but when you play a team that you face a lot, emotionally you feel a bit more when you play against them.   I think the key is just to control your emotions, and I talked about that during the Playoffs here, just to focus on things you can't control.  
But again, there's a lot of different things that adds up and make this series a little bit special, I think, to play against them here in New York.   It's going to be great, and I look forward to the atmosphere in both buildings.   
   
 Q.   You played in the series; do they come up to you and said do you remember this, do you remember that?   Have they started talking to you?  
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   No, I think they just leave us alone right now.   I've seen Mark a few times, and just having him around here, it's just a good feeling.   It is.   You know, and just to have people around you that have been there and done it, it's inspiring, and it's good for your confidence, I think.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT