NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 28, 2015
Henrik Lundqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Good day today in practice.   We had a day off yesterday, and you want to have the intensity.   Sometimes when you play a lot, we don't practice as much, and you don't want to get bad habits in practice, even though you're pretty tired. 
But it was a good day today.   I think we had good meetings and a good skate.   Now it's just on to mental preparation and be positive and believe that we can win this game.   I think we talked about it already in the last series, you have to believe that you can do it.   And they've been playing really well in our building.   You have to respect that.   They're a really good team, so we have to play our best.

Q.   How would you describe the specialness of a Game 7? 
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Well, I think the excitement that just goes into that game for both teams, you're at an even level.   Both teams are playing for the same thing.   It's not like they have an advantage or anything, and I think you can feel that excitement in the building as well as a fan, knowing that the season is on the line.   We've been there before; they have as well.   So I think you have to control your nerves, obviously, and your focus needs to be on great things.

Q.   You seem to be very comfortable in Game 7s.   Can you explain maybe why? 
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   I don't know if I'm comfortable.   I just try to go out and do my job.   You're definitely nervous, but it comes down to teamwork.   I feel comfortable when we're in the right place, when we're doing good things out there.   I feel like it's easier for me to focus on my game, and that's a big part of winning these games too.   You focus on the team concept and the things that brought you to this moment.

Q.   How important will it be to play a smart game? 
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Yeah, I think especially against this team with so much skill and speed, you need to be smart all over the ice, not only on your own end, but the way you dump pucks and the way you forecheck, everything matters. 
When you go into these games, every shift matters, every play matters.   It could be the difference between moving on and it's all over.

Q.   You're so close to the Stanley Cup Final.   Do you feel it?   Do you taste it? 
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   Well, of course you think about it, but then you bring back your focus to where it needs to be, and that is on the job that needs to be done tomorrow.   Because even though you're close, there is a lot of work to be done to get there.   There really is. 
So there is no point going there too much.   You need to stay in the moment really.   Just control the things you can control.   I keep saying that every time.   Tiring of hearing it.   But I think that's the most important thing.

Q.   (Indiscernible) we talk about all your numbers, but is there a different preparation that goes into Game 7? 
HENRIK LUNDQVIST:   I don't change anything preseason, regular season, playoffs.   I think you feel a little different because of the emotions you have and the expectation and excitement, but my approach and my preparation doesn't change.   I think it helps me, at least.   I'm under pressure to do the same thing every time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT