UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 25, 2018
Muhammad-Ali Abdur-Rahkman
Moritz Wagner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Purdue - 92, Michigan - 88
MICHIGAN INTERVIEW
Q. Mo, you've gone up against Hass before tonight, a lot of one-on-one.  Can you talk about that matchup, time in and time out what is the challenge there?
MORITZ WAGNER: Well, he's a very good player.  Yeah, he's very big and physical, but he also has a lot of moves down there and you just gotta try to limit easy opportunities for him.  And, yeah, I mean he scored a bunch at the end, but I actually thought we did an okay job.  And I gotta be better in crunch time.
Q. For both you guys, did it feel like this game is something where first team that blinked was going to lose grounds because everybody was hitting shots?  What was it like when everything was going back and forth and the ball just kept going in?
MUHAMMAD-ALI ABDUR-RAHKMAN: We knew it was going to be tough.  They're a great team and they're playing at home.  Anytime you play on the road in the Big Ten it's going to be tough.  But shots were going in and we knew we had to weather the storm as much as possible and try to bounce back and we didn't do that.
MORITZ WAGNER: I think you can't win a game without defense, and they scored 92 points on us today.  So regardless how good we play defensively, how many shots we made we've got to be better defensively.
Q. For both players, just what did you learn from playing Purdue in these two games?  What do you have to do defensively maybe to slow them down?
MUHAMMAD-ALI ABDUR-RAHKMAN: They provide a difficult matchup with size inside and shooters everywhere.  Not many teams are like them.  It's different, but you learn how much your team fights and how good you are.  And we kept fighting to the end but it just wasn't enough.
MORITZ WAGNER: I think especially on the road you can't give them transition opportunities like we did.  So they always say offense is our defense, and if you turn it over as much as we did in crucial situations today, you give them easy transition baskets.
Q. Muhammad, what was working well for you offensively?  Seemed like you couldn't miss for a while there.  And also, do you feel your team is progressing when these games are going back and forth, you kept your feet under you a little bit more than maybe at North Carolina?
MUHAMMAD-ALI ABDUR-RAHKMAN: I just got a couple of easy shots, a layup and wide-open three, got going early and just played confident.  But I think we're starting to get better, a little bit better.  When teams go up on us on the road.  We just fight back and try to get back into the game, much better than we did in the beginning of the season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT