MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 20, 2017
John Beilein
Charles Matthews
Moritz Wagner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LSU - 77, Michigan - 75   
THE MODERATOR: We welcome Michigan to the media room.  Coach Beilein, Charles Matthews, and Moritz Wagner.  We'll start with an opening statement from Coach.   
JOHN BEILEIN: Really great basketball game.  Anybody who was watching it on TV or at the arena saw that it was a great game by everybody.  Really proud of the way our guys fought back.  We couldn't get some things done on offense and defense most of the game, and then played really well.  Last four or five minutes, I think we really played well, except in the last minute really we got done what we needed to get done.  Tremont Waters just made some incredible plays, and their bigs shot it in.  We really wanted to limit their three game, how many threes that they made.  I think they had four at that point, and then they had three in a row, and an old-fashioned three-point play.  So the 12-point swing, we couldn't get the other side of.   
 Q.  Moritz, can you tell me, when you got that rebound at the last second there, did you think you had a chance to get that in?  
MORITZ WAGNER: I didn't know, honestly, I was just trying my best.  You never know how much time is on the clock.  Yeah, maybe it could have been.   
 Q.  Charles, how tough was No. 4 for them?  
CHARLES MATTHEWS: He's a great player, great team.  Felt like we had great defensive execution, so I give credit to them, but I feel like we did a good job.   
 Q.  Can you guys both talk about, can you learn from a game like this?  
CHARLES MATTHEWS: For sure, I think the errors we made are definitely correctable, and I think we're going to learn growing forward.   
MORITZ WAGNER: A game like this, you learn from every single mistake you had in that game.  So all of us are going to think about it, and we're going to see it on film, for sure, and we're going to learn from it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT