GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 1, 2007
Chan Gailey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   COACH GAILEY:  Coach John Bond did good a great job of innovating and putting in things like that, the direct snap to Choice that felt like we might gain some numbers advantage if we go out and cover the quarterback, then you gain that advantage.  It worked out well for us today. 

 Q.  (No microphone). 
 COACH GAILEY:  Well, we thought that their quarterbacks brought different things to the table.  We knew we had to go out there and stop 3 from running the football.  We had to do that because that's what his package is. 
 It those other guys came in the ballgame, then we had to stop the passing game and that's what we felt like we were trying to gear up to do.  And I thought Jon Tenuta and his staff did an unbelievable job of preparing our football team to play today.  They did an outstanding job. 

 Q.  (What was your plan for Jones)? 
 COACH GAILEY:  Well, we wanted to challenge him to throw the football, obviously. 
 We're going to blitz you, we don't care who you are.  But we felt like the challenge was to stop the run game to see if he could throw the ball well enough to beat us. 

 Q.  Did you see a 30-point win? 
 COACH GAILEY:  I'll be honest with you folks, I did not see this coming.  I thought we would play pretty well defensively.  I did not think we would be able to run the ball as well as we ran it today.  I didn't know that. 
 I thought we had a great offensive line coming back and a good set of still people, but to be able to run the ball the way we did today, I didn't know that. 

 Q.  What did you think of your quarterback's performance>? 
 COACH GAILEY:  It was good and bad.  He did some really good things.  And he missed some throws that I had seen him make 50 times in practice. 
 The great thing is, he didn't have to go play great today.  He could play good and we could still win and he can learn and get his feet on the ground and continue to get better, and go work to become a great quarterback.  So we're fortunate he didn't have to play great today. 

 Q.  (What were the big keys for you)? 
 COACH GAILEY:  I thought we were able to get to the edges a lot.  Our guys are good blitzers and stunners.  I thought we were able to get to the edge to put pressure on their quarterback today.  I don't know how many sacks it was, but I think it was a bunch. 

 Q.  Did you know who their quarterback was going to be? 
 COACH GAILEY:  We didn't know who it was going to be.  We had practiced for whoever it was going to be. 

 Q.  Where do you see them going from here? 
 COACH GAILEY:  Coach Weis will be in here in a few minutes and you can ask him that question.  I have problems trying to get my team ready for the rest of the season. 

 Q.  (No microphone). 
 COACH GAILEY:  They didn't know because they had not been looking. 

 Q.  How important was -- 
 COACH GAILEY:  Big.  That early field position was tremendously big.  For us to keep the pressure on them, our defense just dominated I thought early in the ballgame and gave us field position.  And even though we were not scoring touchdowns, we were able to keep making field goals.  Travis Bell did a great job.  He kicked that one a little low but other than that he kicked the ball great today and that was a big part of us keeping the pressure on Notre Dame and the game, being in control of the game. 

 Q.  You've had some situations in the past years where you have not been able to cash in with touchdowns early in games.  Was that a concern at any point during the game? 
 COACH GAILEY:  Oh, sure, any time you go it in there and don't score a touchdown, you get concerned.  You've moved the ball and been in field position twice, you have one touchdown, it's 7-6, yes, you're always concerned about that.  And that's something we have to go work on.  We didn't play perfectly, we didn't.  We've got things we can go work on. 

 Q.  What did you see of Jonathan Dwyer that you liked during the game? 
 COACH GAILEY:  He's strong now.  The guy is a big, strong back that can get to the edge better than you think he can.  I was impressed with the way he ran the football today and I think that bodes well for him and us. 

 Q.  Do you think people are overlooking Georgia Tech in general? 
 COACH GAILEY:  I don't know.  And it doesn't matter now to be honest with you.  Right now it doesn't matter.  I care about where we are at the end, not after the first game of the season. 

 Q.  Just out of curiosity, Appalachian State beat Michigan -- 
 COACH GAILEY:  Where is this question? 

 Q.  Appalachian State beat Michigan.  Did you hear that and what's your reaction to that? 
 COACH GAILEY:  Yes, I heard it.  I know Jerry and I know App State and I know what a great program they have.  I'm just as surprised like everyone else in the country right now. 
 This just goes to show you, you'd better get ready every week, every team, every week; there are no gimmees in the world of football.  And there's possible going to be some more of those during the course of the year.  That won't be the only one. 

 Q.  Running was the original game plan -- 
 COACH GAILEY:  Yes -- 

 Q.  How early did that happen? 
 COACH GAILEY:  There were a couple of series.  I think we went out there, and I think we ran the ball pretty good early and then we went out there one series and threw it every snap for three straight downs. 
 Somewhere, I want to say start of the second quarter, and I told John, I said, "John, let's just keep pounding them a little bit."  And we had enough weapons and enough ammunition to be able to do that. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT