THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 18, 1995
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Michael, was there any physical reason why you couldn't
give your best tennis today?

 MICHAEL STICH:  Physical and mental.  I would say physical, I
had a little problems with my back.  It was very sore.  I couldn't
really serve the way I wanted to and like move sideway balls that
I had to get and mentally, I am just not in a good frame of mind
where I just can concentrate and everything, so, you know, you
look at excuses for the wind and everything and I was just not
on the court today.

 Q.  Is it the wind that is affecting your frame of mind or
something else?

 MICHAEL STICH:  It is a lot of other things, but the wind puts
it to the end - let us put it that way.  It is just the last piece
that is missing.

 Q.  And final follow-up:  What are those things, the Davis
Cup, for example?

 MICHAEL STICH:  Yeah, things that just things you keep thinking
about all the time trying to figure things out and make it tough
to concentrate on tennis.

 Q.  Why did you decide to play this year? You haven't played
here in three years and clearly do not like this tournament too
much?

 MICHAEL STICH:  Actually, I cannot tell you because I have to
play.  It is a designation week.  I have to play those kind of
tournaments.  It is a great tournament.  It is a great site. 
The stadium is really well done and I think they do a lot for
the players. It is just not my tournament.  I just don't like
playing here at all.  I just don't like being here in Miami, Florida.
 I just don't like the place, so it is not for me -- I don't think
it is worth probably coming back again.  But nothing against the
tournament.  I think they do a great job with the tournament that
they achieved after last few years.

 Q.  Is it possible now that you are talking yourself into
about how bad this place?  A lot of players come here and they
enjoy the environment and enjoy the tournament; possibly you are
talking yourself into how bad it is.

 MICHAEL STICH:  I think I know what I am thinking; know what
I am feeling.  I think that I don't like this place.  I am not
saying it is a bad place.  I am just saying I don't like this
place.  If you go to Tokyo, you don't like Tokyo; you are not
talking yourself into it.  I just don't like it.  Ask the Americans,
they don't like to go to Europe too much. They don't like to stay
six weeks in Europe play Stockholm and Paris maybe.  That is the
way it is.

 Q.  Is it that it is not a city or, I mean, --

 MICHAEL STICH:  It is just the place.  I can't explain it.  I
think you know, you probably go to places that you just don't
like.  That is it.

 Q.  Are you embarrassed?

 MICHAEL STICH:  I can't be embarrassed because I still -- I try
to win my points and it just was not good, at all, what I did
out there today.

 Q.  The second thing, I mean, through your career you have
had difficulty when you are mentally not feeling good, putting
it aside like some players can, has that been something you have
been struggling with?

 MICHAEL STICH:  I would say some -- I am thinking too much about
a lot of things, and sometimes, it just hurts my tennis, and,
but, you know, that is the way it happens, sometimes with me and
my game, and maybe I have try to find a way out of it or accept
it. It is one of those two things I am still working on that it
is not going to happen, but so far, it is still happening.

 Q.  Is it possible that you are so preoccupied with this Davis
Cup problem that you will forego your commitment and not play
Davis Cup for the rest of the year?

 MICHAEL STICH:  No.

 Q.  Michael, what is your schedule from here on up to Wimbledon,
for example?

 MICHAEL STICH:  Davis Cup.  And then Monte Carlo, Munich, Hamburg,
World Team Cup, French Open, and then Halle, then Wimbledon.

 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT