NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 8, 1995
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.   Did you expect such a difficult match today? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH:  I know that Richey is a very good hard court
player.  He came on very strong in the beginning and was a little
slow and I knew it was not going to be easy to play against him.


 Q.   What was behind the slow start?

 MICHAEL STICH:  You know, I just tried to get into the match.
 It was my first match outdoors and then he just took everything
very early and returned really well and didn't miss anything like
in the first one and a half sets and I was not very, very confident.
 I started to stay back.  I was always in the defensive and he
was very aggressive

 Q.   How much better were you serving late in the match compared
to the earlier match; did it take...

 MICHAEL STICH:  I served terrible in the beginning.  Every time
I had a second serve he really, you know, went for the winner
and that made me being even tight on my first serve knowing that
I had to get it in getting into play.  After the second set I
started to loosen up a little bit and went for a little  bit more
and I had more first serves and more free points on my service
games, but you have to say he had a lot of chances, even third
chance 15-40, Love-40 once I just hung in there and just played
it out.

 Q.   He made a considerable point of missing what he described
as a relatively easy volley at 15-15 in his service game at 5-3
in the second set.  Did you think that was that easy a volley.

 MICHAEL STICH:  You know, considering what he did with other
volleys before, it was an easy volley for him, but I think those
kind of volleys, where you really have to follow through and hit
the ball, it is a high falling volley, I think it is one of the
toughest volleys to play.  He just pushed a little bit.  That
is why it went long, but for him, probably felt like an easy one
because he hadn't missed too many shots before that anyway, but
it was an important point; that is for sure.

 Q.   Share a little bit on the Davis Cup.  How does it stand
at the moment? We are seeing stories about you pulling out or
not playing.

 MICHAEL STICH:  No, no decision made yet.  We just talked to
the Federation and, you know, the Federation is not doing a good
job, you know, they are not behaving very smart and not doing
the things they  should do and it is not regarding one person.
 It is just regarding the whole Federation, the whole system how
it works and it is just not perfect right now, but I haven't made
up my mind what I am going to do; what I am not going to do, but
it has nothing to do with money.  It is just the principle that
I say, you know, if they want to treat as what they have always
said they want to treat the players the same way or do what they
have to do and then they try to, you know, bring some money some
other ways around and, you know, not being honest and not being
really open; then I am just starting to get a little upset.

 Q.   Do you feel you have been lied to?  Will you not play
then; is it possible?

 MICHAEL STICH:  Everything is possible.

 Q.   When do you have to commit to playing?

 MICHAEL STICH:  I think the deadline for the team to be announced
is on the 16th of March, so the Federation has, let us see, one
more week, I think, to work on a couple of things and we will
see what the outcome will be.

 Q.   Have you giving them anything like an ultimatum? 

 MICHAEL STICH:  That is what everyone says that my manager gave
the ultimatum and things like that, but that is not the truth.
 The truth is the Federation and I talked to Mr. Sanders yesterday
for about 40 minutes; that the Federation always expects us to
approach the Federation, we want this; could we do this; could
we do that way.  I think it should be a different way.  The Federation
wants me to be part of the Davis Cup; wants me to represent the
Federation and the country and they should come themselves and
say, listen, we may possibly have a deal with Boris and we always
gave you our word; we are going to make the same deal with you,
so let us sit down and just talk about our contract again.  They
never did that.  Now they are trying to blame everything else
on us; that we are giving them an ultimatum; that we are just
doing everything wrong.  I think that is very easy by the Federation
even after my manager did send the letter to the Federation like
I think eight days or nine days ago, there was never a response
except from the President, but that was not a real response. 
It was just like a letter saying, yeah, we are trying to do certain
things and we will work it out and things like that.  Nothing
really specific.

 Q.   Is there a money issue here? 

 MICHAEL STICH:  It is not about money.  I mean, I always said
that I am happy with what I get, and I don't have any problem
with Boris getting more than I do because he did much more for
the German tennis than I did because he has been there three,
four years before I was there.  It is just a matter of principle;
that people not being honest to me and not telling me the truth
just trying to, you know, let us say, sell me out a little bit
and that is what I don't like, so now it is getting a matter of
money, because the Federation wasn't honest and maybe possibly
lied to me.

 Q.   Do you feel that way -- what is your stance on Davis
Cup right now, whether or not you would play or not or; are you
still noncommittal?

 MICHAEL STICH:  I think it is not the right time to say if I
am not going to play or if I am going to play.  It is just open
right now and we will see what the Federation will do the next
week, but as I talk to Mr. Sanders, he told me everyone is on
holiday; he can't get everyone together.  He has his holiday next
week and he expected my manager to fly into Key Biscayne to have
a talk with him.  I said, hey, if you want something, just fly
where you have to fly to and just deal with the people you have
to deal with.  But  we are not traveling after you to get something.
 It is just -- should be coming from the other side.

 Q.   Are you tired of all of this?

 MICHAEL STICH:  I am very tired of all of this.  It just takes
all the fun out of playing Davis Cup and I am just very sad about
it because I think I owe it to all the other players on the team
that I should be part of the team playing against the Netherlands.
 On the other hand, I am in a position now where I don't have
to, you know, take everything from the Federation whether, yeah,
you have to do it anyway,.  I won the Davis Cup.  I have done
a lot of things in my career; achieved a lot, and I don't have
to do everything they want me to do.  I think they have to really
start to understand that they have players that can think themselves.
 They make up their own minds and they don't need to do everything,
you know, to be -- to be for the president, public or whatever,
to look good, I think we did so much in tennis, Steffi Boris,
myself, that -- it just speaks for itself the success we have
had.  If they want the best Davis Cup team, they should have behave
in a proper way and be honest to all the players.

 Q.   They must have a short memory because you were the hero
of the team in '93. 

 MICHAEL STICH:  I know that.  That is the story that always has
happened.  We won the Davis Cup in '93 and, you know, half a year
later, our president says we can't win the Davis Cup without Boris.
 No question about that.  We are a much stronger team with Boris
and myself on the team, but we won the Davis Cup without Boris
and he won the Davis Cup without me.  So I think some people don't
really know what they are talking about.  They don't know tennis
so well, the whole system, the whole way the German Tennis Federation
works just has nothing to do with tennis, really.  A lot of those
people don't understand tennis.  They don't know what tennis is
all about. They don't know that it is very important for the juniors
that we are kind of, you know, the kind of persons they should
look up to; they should follow and say this is what I want to
do; those guys are great, and we are just hurting ourselves and
the sport in general by having all those discussions in the press
in the media over and over again.

 Q.   What do you feel your main feeling is sadness or anger.

 MICHAEL STICH:  It is disappointment.  It is just very disappointing,
you know, when I talked  yesterday also to Mr. Sanders I said
I have to think about if I am playing Davis Cup or not.  He said
to me, "don't always say this, that you have to think about
it or not -" like in a kind of a little aggressive way. 
I said, listen, I have been there for the last six years; I have
always been there.  I have always been in the team; always tried
to help and do the best I could for the German tennis, and for
the Davis Cup team and now is the time where I don't have to take
it anymore.  Just disappoints me because as I said, I think I
owe it to Karbacher, Braasch - Marcus - all these guys to be on
the team and try to win it with those guys together, but it is
not that I do it anyway.  There has to be certain things that
have to be, you know, dealt with and I am a guy who lives after
certain -- lives a certain way and honest --- to being honest
and always open is one of my principles in life, and the Federation
hasn't done that.

 Q.   If it's not money you are looking for, is it an apology
from the Federation?

 MICHAEL STICH:  As I said, now it is getting into a money issue
because now it is at the point where I say, listen, for me, I
want to play Davis Cup; I love to play Davis Cup, but I don't
like the Federation telling me, listen, we talk about it in two
months; we  talk about it in four months, maybe we do something;
maybe not.  And the problem is that Mr. Sanders as the chief executive
of the tennis Federation and the president don't have the power
to make decisions.  They always have to go through other people;
through the procedure, like 18 people who have to make the decision
together if they want to do it or not and they have a different
council again who has to make the decision. They have to go through
so many stages in the Federation that nobody can really tell you
if it is going to happen or not.  That is also a problem with
Boris' contract with the German Federation.  Once they started
to have that negotiation with Boris, they should have come up
and said, listen, that is what it is going to look like, the contract
with Boris, we promise to give you the same deal; let us sit down
and have a talk right away.  Instead of finishing one deal and
then hoping maybe I am playing anyway, and let's see what is going
to happen.  And I think they realize now that they have to start
to think a little bit different way.

 Q.   Would you feel guilty if you didn't play Davis Cup?

 MICHAEL STICH:  Again, as I said, I would  feel very guilty towards
the other players.  But not towards the Federation.

 Q.   How did the talk with Mr. Sanders go?  Was it encouraging?

 MICHAEL STICH:  He promised me that they are going to do the
same; that they are going to bring my contract up to the same
level as Boris' contract is. But as I say, he doesn't have the
power to do it.  So I can't trust his word or believe in his word
because he can't make the decision, so he has to go back to all
the other people; to all the 18 other presidents of the Tennis
Federation inside the German Tennis Federation, just bring them
together, ask them, have them talk about it, make a decision.
 The problem is that Mr. Stouder (Phonetic) and Mr. Sanders weren't,
you know, backed up by everyone once the thing with Boris was
going on.  So I think there is a big problem insides the Federation
anyway and so I will see what is going to happen.

 Q.   You think it might be possible that Germany could play
or would it be rather difficult without either you or Becker?

 MICHAEL STICH:  I just can speak for myself. I don't know about
Boris, but there is a possibility that I am not going to play,
yeah, for sure.  But I  hope it is not going to happen.

 Q.   This would be the first time you have refused to play?

 MICHAEL STICH:  It would be the first time.

 Q.   But not the first time you have had a run-in with the
German Federation over --

 MICHAEL STICH:  Run-in -- I mean, I think the Federation does
a couple of good things, but a lot of things they do is not very
good and not good for tennis.  As I said, like I mean, I think
someone should really explain to you how the Federation works.
 I am not the right guy to do it.  Someone should.  No one can
make decisions without the other person.  There is not one man
who really is in charge saying that is going to happen or that
is not going to happen and just about everyone wants money for
his own little Federation inside the German Tennis Federation
and everyone just wants to do it and, you know, bring up and build
a new facility and things like that instead of really trying to
bring the kids in playing tennis; having us as leading tennis
players of the country; saying, listen, look at those guys; they
are great tennis players, they try to do the best they can.  That
is what you got to try to do.  That is what you got to achieve
if you want to be a good tennis player, a good  example.  We are
not a good example right now; Federation is not.

 Q.   You are giving them suggestions; they are not listening?

 MICHAEL STICH:  Problem is I am giving suggestions, but I know
the suggestions I make they cannot work because of the system
of the Federation. It is useless to give any input because probably
they listen, but they can't do anything.

 Q.   There was a communication out of Munich this morning
on behalf of your manager saying he was threatening to pull you
from Davis Cup?

 MICHAEL STICH:  He can't pull me from Davis Cup.

 Q.   Question is, has he talked to you about this or is he
making decision on his own?

 MICHAEL STICH:  We talked about it.  He didn't say that he was
going to pull me out of Davis Cup.  He just said -- no.  That
is what the Federation probably says, but he just said --  if
certain things are not talked over and certain things are not
going to be certain -- if certain things are not going to be made
up until we have to announce our Davis Cup team, there might be
a possibility that I am not going to play Davis Cup.  That is
what the situation is.  And I  don't know how the tennis Federation
acted, but I just had a little paper; what they do is they don't
understand.  They just don't understand what it is all about.


 Q.   Have you given them a deadline?

 MICHAEL STICH:  Yeah, we did.  Actually I have to know before
we have to announce Davis Cup team.

 Q.   Which is when?

 MICHAEL STICH:  The 16th.

 Q.   Is it true that you said you now wouldn't play, all other
things being equal, if you don't get the same amount as Boris?

 MICHAEL STICH:  The contract was not even made yet.  So I can't
even say what is the same amount, because he doesn't even have
a contract.

 Q.   2.5 million to him; 1.5 million to you; is that roughly
correct?

 MICHAEL STICH:  Roughly probably correct. You should go probably
to the Federation; ask one of the presidents in the Federation
and they will tell you right away.  That is what is going to happen.
 At the Federation, someone goes there -- the contract is something
between the player and the Federation; no one should talk about
it.  Always some people in the Federation say, listen, I know
something, can I talk to  you; can I be in the paper; I want to
tell you something.  That is the way it goes.

 Q.   How would you describe the action of the Federation?

 MICHAEL STICH:  What actions?

 Q.   That they are not getting the stuff put together with
you.

 MICHAEL STICH:  It's amazing that they don't learn from the mistakes
that they have done in the past.  It is just very, very -- yeah,
funny.  It is getting funny, actually.  It is just for me not
-- I can't understand how you can make the same mistake over and
over again and not learning by, you know, everyone makes faults,
but you learn by doing -- by making mistakes, but you do it once;
maybe do it twice, but you don't do it three or four times.

 Q.   Michael, you said a little while ago you can't speak
for Boris, but is there the possibility that with the political
problems, the problems in the past with the Federation and Boris
and problems you are having right now that the two you of you
guys can say cut the crap?

 MICHAEL STICH:  No, because his problems are basically totally
different than mine.  He does his thing.  He has his own manager
who does all the things  for him.  I just do what I do and what
is right for me even if I might be mistaken if I would not play
Davis Cup, but in that situation, I still think it is the right
thing for me to do.  If it would happen that way.  And what he
does is just what he thinks is right for him.  We can't come together
and say listen, we have the same interests; it is not about interest.
 It is about tennis in general.  It is about giving a very bad
example to a lot of people; just me having -- being sitting here
and talking to you guys about 20 minutes about the German Tennis
Federation, just about the most disgusting thing that has happened.
 You should call those guys; go to Key Biscayne get Mr. Sanders
and talk to him; listen what he says.  I think it is just as you
said, pathetic.

 Q.   He doesn't return my phone calls.

 MICHAEL STICH:  He didn't call my manager, so why should he call
you?

 Q.   Exactly.


 End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT