ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1994
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MICHAEL STICH: It's not what I expected at  the beginning of the year.  I would have rather liked  to play, but it's better to be the 9th player than not  to be here at all, that's why I'm half satisfied.  


Q.  (INAUDIBLE)?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No, I don't hope that anyone  will get injured.  I think that the eight players that  are ahead of me deserve to be here because this year  they have played better than I have and I just think I  didn't play good enough, and that's the way it should  be.  They should have the same experience for  themselves as I had last year, that's why I don't hope  anything bad for them.  


Q.  (Inaudible.)  

MICHAEL STICH: Well, I think I'm a good  training partner because the groups are very uneven,  and there's certain players with certain styles, so  that's why they like to have me as a training partner.  I enjoy being here because I can practice  without any pressure, and that's why I enjoy it because  I can relax and can prepare myself mentally for the  next year.  


Q.  Let's say you will not play here, do you have  to stay until Wednesday?  

MICHAEL STICH: No.  As far as I know, I have to stay until  Thursday or Friday, as long as the pre-round matches  will go on because if one of the players can't play, I  can replace them, and I can play for points and prize  money as well.  After that, I will start my practice  program for the next year.  


Q.  Do you think that the qualifications system  is injust?  

MICHAEL STICH: No, I simply didn't play good enough to be  here this year.  I had enough chances but I didn't use  them.  Everyone seemed to think that Alberto  Berasategui -- everyone seemed to complain about  Alberto Berasategui being here but he won seven  tournaments and he's here for good reasons.  All clay  court tournaments -- (Inaudible.) -- but this is not  worth talking about.  He was in the final of the French  Open, and all the other players who are here really  played well.  I think this year, the competition was  stronger than last year and one had to have more points  in the last year to be here in the Masters.  It is my  fault and not the fault of the others that I'm not  here.  


Q.  Was your season planning not good enough or  was it that you simply didn't play well enough at the  end of the year?  

MICHAEL STICH: No, we always forget the  positive things once things don't go well.  I won three  tournaments this year; the World Team Cup, I was in the  finals of the U.S. Open and played the semifinals of  the Davis Cup.  It is not too bad, I think.  It was the  last few months and weeks of this year that I didn't  play as well as last year.  The reason is that I was  very tired.  I almost played two years in a row without  having any breaks and now I have to take the toll.  The  planning this year was the same as last year, but last  year it worked out and this year not.  Altogether, next  year I will play less tournaments if that will work  out.  I don't know yet.  


Q.  (Inaudible.)  

MICHAEL STICH: Well, I'm disappointed that  I'm not here as a player, but as I said already, the  others were better than I was and I didn't use the  chances, and I will try to play better next year so I  can play the Masters.  


Q.  After winning the World Championship, Agassi  also had a season when he didn't play well, does this  also encourage you?  

MICHAEL STICH: Well, I think that the season  didn't go too bad.  If anyone says this, I will stop  playing tennis.  It wasn't as good as last year but I  always said that the season -- that the last year will  be difficult to repeat, and I won six tournaments, now  I only one three tournaments and simply didn't show  good tennis at the big tournaments; the Super 9 and the  Grand Slam.  That's why I'm not here.  With this year I  have won all tournaments in Germany that I can win,  that's why I reached a goal for myself and again, one  forgets the positive aspects once things don't go so  well.  


Q.  The question of your coach and trainer is  still undecided.  Is there anything new about it, will  Pilic still be your coach?  

MICHAEL STICH: No, I was always certain that  he will not be coaching me next year and will be simply  working for his job at the DTB.  He helped me this year  and we worked very well together, but for the long run  it would not be a good solution.  I will have to find  someone else.  


Q.  What do you say about the message, that the  DTB reached the same agreement with Boris Becker, then  with you?  

MICHAEL STICH: Very good and smart for the  DTB.  


Q.  This means that you both will play in  February even though he still has some problems with  the date?  

MICHAEL STICH: Well, don't ask me.  I am  playing.  Who else will play, I don't know.  But don't  make his decision to play depend on my decision.  I  play and if he wants to play, he will, if not he  won't.  This does not depend with my person.  That's  why I don't know.  It is his planning and he makes a  decision for himself, and he will not make -- it will  not depend on me being there or not.  


Q.  Could you imagine playing doubles with him?  

MICHAEL STICH: Yes, of course.  You always  seem to think that we don't look at each other or say  hello to each other.  What was written over the last  weeks was nonsense.  We will play together in the Davis  Cup.  We have played together before.  We won Olympic  gold together.  We don't avoid each other, but at the  same time, we don't have dinner every night.  It is  just like you with your neighbors, maybe.  We see each  other on tournaments and I wish that he always plays  well.  Obviously I hope that he will lose against me  more often, but I hope that he will play at the Davis  Cup.  I always said this.  I say this since -- for two  years that we would be a much stronger team with him.  The discussion to always make his appearance to play at  the Davis Cup depending on my person tires me.  


Q.  Does it go on your nerves that you are asked  the same question over and over again?  

MICHAEL STICH: Yes.  


Q.  Don't you have the chance to say how it  really is?  

MICHAEL STICH: The problem is that no one  writes what I'm saying, but what is interesting to  them.  I can say he played well or he served well and  the next day the press will say that I don't enjoy  playing with him.  Well then, everyone can think  whatever they want.  


Q.  You wouldn't mind him winning the world  championship?  

MICHAEL STICH: Sure, it would be good because  then the title will stay in Germany.  


Q.  Who is your favorite to win the tournament?  

MICHAEL STICH: Agassi, because he likes this  surface and the balls.  At the other group, I think  Boris has an advantage because it's in Germany and he  played very well the last weeks.  He is at his top  mentally.  He can use this -- these advantages, but all  the others play very well as well.  Stefan has an outside chance in this group.  


Q.  You just talked to him.  Do you think he may  not play tomorrow?  

MICHAEL STICH: No, I think he will play.  


Q.  Do you not want to play anymore?  

MICHAEL STICH: Yes, but why should I wish  anything bad to someone just so I can play.  The others  are here because they play better than I did.  


Q.  Are you still motivated to play here?  

MICHAEL STICH: Yes, of course.  If I play, I  will try to win.  


Q.  Are you mentally not as fit right now or are  you tired physically?  

MICHAEL STICH: Physically I am not fit and  that's why my mental side is not as strong.  I lost  two, three matches that I should not have lost and  sometimes this can be a turning point.  I don't have  enough strength right now.  I played two years in a row  without breaks and I can feel it now.  I'm not getting  any younger and I have to take care of my physical  fitness more than I had to four years ago.  During the  last two years I had little time because I played so  much.  Now I will use the time I have to prepare a good  practice program.  


Q.  With a coach or a team?  

MICHAEL STICH: No, by myself or with someone  else.  


Q.  Would it be possible for you to have a player  as a coach?  

MICHAEL STICH: Agassi and Gilbert is a rare  grouping because it is very difficult to become a good  coach after playing on the Tour.  Both get along with  each other very well and so it probably works.  I don't  need anybody who played on the Tour.  I know how I have  to play.  What I need is motivation and a good  conditioning program.  


Q.  What would you prefer to do instead of being  here?  

MICHAEL STICH: To play.  To go on the court  tomorrow and to play.  


Q.  What do you think about the new 20 second  rule?  

MICHAEL STICH: No one has tried it so far,  but I don't think it is very useful; especially at the  Grand Slam.  In Australia, for example, there are  extreme conditions.  It is very hot and the players  have five seconds less.  The players have to recuperate  and they won't become more exciting.  The ball will  still cross the net the same way.  


Q.  Are the players talking about this?  

MICHAEL STICH: Yes, we have told the ATP that  we don't want this rule.  Then the ATP didn't do it,  but now the ITF wants to do it.  In my opinion, the ATP  should represent the players' view and tell the ITF  that the new rule doesn't make any sense and will not  do any good.  The fact that the ATP thought about doing  this is actually a contradiction.  


Q.  Why did Agassi appear in a special look?  

MICHAEL STICH: Apparently the suit didn't  fit.  There's always someone who falls apart or the  suit doesn't fit.  I don't think it makes any  difference.  


Q.  (Inaudible.)  

MICHAEL STICH: Yes, I do wear suits but this  one I will only wear here.  


Q.  What is your next tournament?  

MICHAEL STICH: Qatar, it's around the second  of January.  


Q.  Should the defending champion be  automatically invited here?  

MICHAEL STICH: No, it would be great,  obviously, but no rules are perfect.  The guys that  play better and that's why they're here.  There's  always something to criticize.  


Q.  Do you think the groups are uneven?  

MICHAEL STICH: Yes, one of the groups will  draw most of the attention, and in the other group  Agassi probably will draw most of the attention.  It  should be more even, but again, it's the rule and  that's how it is.  


Q.  How is the surface?  

MICHAEL STICH: Medium, not too fast.  The  ball is pretty slow.  It will be difficult to play  serve and volley with the second serve all the time.  


Q.  The children were disappointed that they  couldn't get in close contact with the stars.  What can  be done against this?  

MICHAEL STICH: Well, today, this was not the  purpose.  Maybe we can come up here one of these days  to play with them, but today it was an official part of  the draw and so on.  There was no time for contacts.  


Q.  (Inaudible.)  

MICHAEL STICH: Of course I will share my  knowledge.  There are a lot of Germans in the top 100.  The up-and-coming players should find their own game  and do whatever they enjoy to do.  I know it's  difficult because the standards are high.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT