U.S. OPEN
September 4, 1994
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You have to be very pleased. 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Yes, I am, very happy, again. I played pretty good, too, except the
first set, I struggled a little bit, but the conditions weren't easy. The wind was pretty
strong and if there's one thing I don't like is playing in the wind. I had to get used to
that. I served pretty well I was moving well, I think everything was very good.  
 
Q. Is the worse thing about the wind the service to -- 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: For me it is more the serve, because you tend to throw the ball a little
lower than you normally do because you think it might get caught by the wind up there, and
that's when your service action is not as good as it should be and you miss more first
serves, and from the baseline you're not going for as much as you normally do. You just
try to play the ball in safe, come to the net-- but for me, the toughest part is the
serve.  
 
Q. I have seen a couple players today-- I didn't notice in your match today-- a couple
of players toss it up and catch it and start over; did you have to do that today? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: I can't do that anyway. If I toss it to the wrong spot, I still have to
go for it. I never did, I never let it bounce or put it up again, most of the time I toss
pretty well.  
 
Q. You just can't stop the follow-through? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: No, I just feel if the ball is up in the air, I feel like I have to hit
it.  
 
Q. What was going through your mind when you hit that ball up into the air at the end? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: I was very happy. I mean, as I said especially today, this match for me
was very important because I hate playing in the wind. I always struggle when I have those
kinds of conditions and Byron is a solid player. He's very good in doubles, so it means he
can play some good tennis, and I just stayed, tried to concentrate on my game. I was down,
he was serving for the set and I just had my chance and got a little lucky on that
breakpoint. But for me, that was probably the biggest win just by the way I played and the
way the conditions were today compared to the other two matches.  
 
Q. Second week of a Grand Slam for the first time in a while? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Feels great.  
 
Q. Second two sets you just kind of cruised with the volleying and everything; did you
feel like you were playing a level above in your tennis; what did you feel like when you
were going through those last two sets? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: No, I just played the tennis I'm capable of playing and again, due to
the conditions, that's the way you have to play, I need to chip and charge, come in as
much as you can and volley as much as you can. I did that, I found a good rhythm, good
position to the ball and I was moving well and it was one of those days where you move
well. I've done that the last two matches as well, so I'm hitting the ball pretty well.  
 
Q. When was the last time you were in the second week of a Grand Slam? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Wimbledon last year. It is not that long ago, guys. You make it sound
like it's ten years ago, please. I've been seven years on the tour, so it can't be that
bad.  
 
Q. Is the hardest thing getting to the second week. I know, obviously, you've got to
keep winning, but when you get to that point, is it a bit liberating to get to the second
week? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Now the real tough matches are coming up and you just have to -- I go
out there and try to think every match I'm playing is like the finals here. So you really
have to give it 100 percent, 110 percent, give it the best effort you can and that's how
you have -- how I have to approach every match in this tournament here, and it worked very
good so far and, you know, the other rounds are not getting easier. They're getting
tougher and tougher.  
 
Q. I believe Stefan Edberg said in the second round that one of things he likes about
it is there are more exciting players, better players; does that kick in for you? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: I think it is little bit more exciting. You're coming to the quarters or
semis or finals, whatever, and normally if everybody is playing his best tennis, you get
to see great tennis matches. It happened like this over the past years and that's what's
very interesting, but I would rather like to win every match in three sets and become the
U.S. Open champ rather than having to fight it out. Especially when you win, it's more fun
anyway. Stefan had a year where, I think, he won four five-set matches in a row. That's
the best feeling you can have winning a Grand Slam. But if you lose that quarterfinals 7-6
in the fifth, that's not such a great feeling.  
 
Q. I would imagine that motivation would be much easier in the second week than the
first-- in the second week you're playing, mentally; it would seem like it would be easier
to approach every match; is that -- 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: I don't think like I'm in the second week now, I just think I'm in the
round of 16. There are a couple of more matches to play if I want to win this tournament
and the next one is going to be the tough one and that's what I'm looking at. I don't
think too much about the next matches that might come up or what the draw might look like,
whatever. I can't change it anyway. I just have to play as good as I can and try to win my
match.  
 
Q. Yesterday, Agassi was talking about doing well here was important to him because he
wanted to get back some of the respect of the other players and everything because he
hadn't done well in Grand Slams; do you feel that this is going to help you when psyching
out your opponents and everything, doing well here? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: You have to ask my opponents, but I think being number four or number
two for six months and always being in the top five, that gives you the respect by the
other players. That means you're playing pretty good tennis and I did that except for the
Grand Slams, but anyway, it is a different story. He dropped to number 30, he wasn't
playing well, he was injured for a long time and for him, I'm sure it's much more
important than me. But I want to as well as I can and I think to do well is very important
to everybody playing in this tournament.  
 
Q. How many times have you played Kafelnikov? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Five, six times.  
 
Q. He's moved very quickly from out of the top 100 to 11. Have you seen a real
development each time you've played him? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: He beat me every time so -- no, he's a great player. He can play on
every surface, he's very -- he's a smart player, he's good, he's moving very relaxed, the
good thing with him is -- he doesn't think about it too much, he just wants to go out
there and enjoy and just play tennis. There's going to come a time when he starts thinking
about his game and the pressure and everything, but right now he's playing great tennis
and for sure -- I think he's going to be top ten at the end of the year. He might even
goes to the Masters and make the ATP finals, but he's a very good player right now.  
 
Q. The other day you said you expected to lose in the first round here; what are your
expectations now? 
 
 MICHAEL STICH: To lose in the next round -- no, I'm just in the fourth round now,
that's great, but as I said, there are couple more matches to come and I'm just looking
forward to the next match. If I want to win, I have to do really well.  
 
End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT