U.S. OPEN
August 30, 1994
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Michael, after Boris' match last night he was unhappy with the speed of the stadium
court surface, he said it didn't really suit his game very well. I was wondering what you
think about the speed of the surfaces compared to other hardcourts? 

MICHAEL STICH: I mean, I played in New Haven, I think New Haven wasn't that much faster
than here, but the problems here with the courts is they are all different; you have the
outside courts where you practice, that's pretty fast, and then you go -- the Grandstand
is even slower, I think, and the Stadium is not that fast. But, I mean, you have to adjust
your game and it's -- I saw a little of that match and I thought, especially in the first
set, it was great tennis and you have to pay all the credit to Richey because he's not a
baseliner normally, he's a guy who comes in as well. So you just have to adjust a little
bit. But for me, I'm trying to change a little bit anyway, I don't try to play serve and
volley all the time because it is not fast enough for that, so you have to really try to
make the best out of it. 

Q. Is there a court that's particularly fast; I mean, compared to the warm-up courts,
faster than Grandstand and Stadium? 

MICHAEL STICH: Stadium and Grand Slam mostly like every year they resurface. They don't
do that with the outside courts. It would be expensive, they don't need to do that. It's
something you can't change. If the court is a little slower than the other ones, you have
to deal with it and just make the best out of it. 

Q. Is that not as true at a clay tournament or grass, Wimbledon; aren't those courts a
little different too? 

MICHAEL STICH: Every court -- you play on clay in Rome and you play on clay in Hamburg
and you play on clay in Munich, there's always a difference. The practice courts are the
same normally, but it doesn't matter to anyone. You know, that once you go on court and
once you practice on stadium before, let's say as a top player should have done anyway to
get used to the surface, then you know how it's going to be played and you know what you
have to do. And losing 7-6 in the fifth set and having played a pretty decent match, I
think it was not exciting point. 

Q. After you got through the first set you won pretty easily here. Do you, after
Wimbledon, the next Slam, do you have a special drive here to advance far? 

MICHAEL STICH: I'm very happy. I did 100% better than I did last year and that is a big
achievement for me also for the other Grand Slams. I'm happy to go through the first
round. It's normally the most difficult round anyway and I played an opponent that can
play really well. He proved it in Indianapolis, he played fine there, so I was happy. I
didn't play great tennis, but I played solid, I stayed cool and mentally I was there and I
played the good shots. I needed them. 

Q. Yesterday Agassi said the players here need more concentration at this tournament
than the others; do you find that is true? 

MICHAEL STICH: Yes, for me it's the toughest of the four Grand Slams without a doubt.
All the things you have to deal with here at the U.S. Open. It is not just the tournament.
If you stay in the City, it is not like really relaxing to go stay in Manhattan, once you
go outside. And so you have to deal with all those things and once you get out here you
have to wait for a long, long time and those matches can take a while and it's just very
noisy, very crowded and everything. So I think for me, the U.S. Open is the most difficult
to win -- to play and obviously, for a lot of players who would really like to win because
it is so difficult to play. 

Q. It has become very popular in the United States to talk about tennis as a dying
sport. You have a European perspective and is it different from what you hear out here? 

MICHAEL STICH: I would put it this way, we have -- in the last 15 years we had very,
very good 15 years of tennis. We had great players, great tennis, the economy, all the
business, they went with the growing perspective of the tennis sport. And now, you know,
you can't just keep going like this. It's just a normal thing like this in the economy
that once you reached a point where it's going to stop and might go back a little, but
might go up again a little bit, but I think it's just a normal thing. There are so many
sports out there, and if you had interest in a long time for tennis and you see golf might
be a little more interesting now, people change. And I think that's fair enough. And I
think it is not a problem. We don't have the players. I think we have the players with
great personalities. Most of the guys are still pretty young, so they have plenty of time
to become the characters everybody is talking about. I think it's just change of time
which you have to accept and make the best out of it. Still, everybody is playing great
tennis and money isn't involved. 

Q. Do you see the lagging interest in Europe that some people see in the United States?


MICHAEL STICH: For sure there is. No question about it. You can see from Germany it
started all like in '85, '86, when Steffi and Boris came up, there was a big boom in
tennis. Everybody wanted to play tennis and it became popular. But now, everybody is used
to it. It is not that fascinating, whereas a sport in Germany now, young swimmers or ice
skaters or something like that who are attractive, they are interesting, so the people
just take them and they just -- you know, they don't have that -- they don't focus that
much on Boris or Steffi or me anymore because tennis has been there for ten years now. And
that's a long time. You have that in -- sometimes in soccer, years where soccer is the
greatest sport of all, and another year people don't attend it as much as they used to do.
And you've got to give those people a break and let them enjoy other sports as well. I
think tennis is a great sport and still people watching. 

Q. Woodforde was just in here and he said there are different rules for the named
players and for the players like him, that referees don't penalize you guys when you
should be penalized. They get penalized and he said -- 

MICHAEL STICH: Who said that? 

Q. Woodforde. He was just in here. Do you think that's true? As one of the top seeds
here, do you think you get special treatment at all because you are a top seed? 

MICHAEL STICH: Yeah. I can't deny it. I think it's wrong, no question about it, but I
think there should be some advantage for the seeded players because those are the ones you
normally want to see at the end of the week just by names and everything. It doesn't mean
the others are not great tennis players, it has nothing to do with that. But you have that
in every sport or even business. The ones who are very good at what they're doing, and if
they're famous, they just get a little better treatment than other ones. I think it's just
normal. 

Q. Do you have a sense here that there's more movement this year in that officials are
maybe trying to sort out whether they're playing with ATP rules or Grand Slam rules as far
as the noise and -- 

MICHAEL STICH: No, I think normally they play with the Grand Slam rules. People are
allowed to move a little bit, but here at the Open everybody moves any way when they want
to, so that doesn't make a change. So it's just the fact that you have to know what is
going to happen. Once you know what is going to happen, you can set your mind to that
specific problem and just say, okay, I know this is going to happen. People are going to
walk around and I have to cope with it because I can't change it. But if you walk on court
and somebody tells you a minute before the match, by the way, people are allowed to move
around today, it's like you couldn't prepare for that and then you have to adjust
sometimes and it's difficult, especially when you're not playing that great. If you play
good, there is nothing anyway that disturbed you. 

Q. How do you explain your poor record in the Grand Slams since winning Wimbledon? 

MICHAEL STICH: I didn't play that bad at all the Grand Slams. The last four I didn't
play so well, I mean, afterwards. I played good at the Australian, but you can't have a
good year every year, and I had a lot of good years in the past. And as I said, I'm very
happy I won this round and maybe I wasn't up for the Grand Slams as much as I was for the
other tournament, but maybe I was putting too much pressure on myself. 

Q. I guess that was a big thing about Courier possibly not coming here and that
retirement that lasted about ten minutes. Have you ever gone through that type of
situation where you just want to toss in the bag? Does that happen to you this year? Have
you ever gone through -- 

MICHAEL STICH: It happened to me in '92 when I won Wimbledon. I had a great year,
finished the year at number four, and lost a little bit of interest. There was nothing
really -- there weren't too many goals to go for at that time, and so I didn't play that
great. I just won one tournament. I just finished the year 15 which isn't all so bad, but
everybody told me it's very bad, you're just number 15 in the world, and you get it into
your head and once you do that, once you get so influenced by other people, it's just
tough to get out of it. And then in 93, I just said, hey, I'm just a good tennis player. I
enjoy it and have fun and don't put any pressure on myself and probably best year in 93,
afterwards I had a goal. I wanted to be back in the top five and I reached that goal, and
I say this year I want to finish the year in the top five again and just play tennis and
I'm just having fun. 

Q. So maybe you're more vulnerable to that once you've achieved some of the things you
wanted to, whether it be number one or number three or number four and there's almost like
a mental fall off? 

MICHAEL STICH: Even more for Jim. Jim has been number one, he won like two of the four
Grand Slams, he has been the most dominant player for two and a half years on the tour. So
what more is it for a 22 year old at that time to achieve? There's not so much left except
the other Grand Slams and he went to the finals of the U.S. Open and he Wimbledon. So he's
one of the few players who won all Grand Slams. So just right now -- you got to enjoy
life. We're not just machines, if you want to take three weeks off, take three weeks off.
Nobody tells us what we have to do. It is not going to hurt the tennis that bad. Nobody is
going to lose after taking a couple weeks off. 

Q. What do you think about the concentrated effort of someone like Ivan Lendl for
someone in his career who kept driving to be number one and never really seem to let up;
do you get tired of it? 

MICHAEL STICH: You have those guys and they're very, very rare and he's -- what he
achieved just has been achieved by Jimmy Connors and other guys before that, but you have
to say that tennis right now is much more competitive. You go out there and you saw
yesterday what happened, you can't take the number two seed and say he's going to cruise
through the first two or three rounds. That's never going to happen. It didn't happen the
last two years and it happened. Like ten years ago, you could say, okay first few rounds
are pretty easy. You always get an upset, but it is not that bad. But these days you have
to be one hundred percent every match, every week, every month, every day. It's very
difficult. It's very tiring if you don't take the right breaks at the right time. It can
go the wrong way. 

Q. Can you see yourself getting to a point like Lendl, he's here, he's trying to win.
He says he doesn't have great expectations, but he's going to have fun with the effort. Do
you believe that? 

MICHAEL STICH: I believe that. I mean, he did -- he won everything he could have won.
He's the most successful tennis player ever-- maybe Jimmy. He loves the sport and if he
enjoys being out and doesn't get frustrated when he loses, that's something everybody has
to accept and understand. He's what, 33 now, I think? I wouldn't be playing tennis at 33,
no question about it, but he loves the sport. He doesn't want to give up, he wants to say
one day that's it, he's done it 15 years, if he has another two, three years where he
enjoys it and makes himself work hard and just competing with the other players, just let
him enjoy it. 

Q. You said that if he doesn't get frustrated when he loses, people have to understand.
I wonder if that's something the player himself has to understand? 

MICHAEL STICH: Sure. You have to accept that you're not as good as you used to be and I
think he knows that and he's been marked a couple times where he lost against guys he
never lost to like 3 years 4, 5 years ago, and it's tough for him, but I think it looks
like right now as you said he's going out there trying to enjoy himself. He appreciates
people still coming out and seeing him play tennis and that's what it's all about at the
end. If you walk on center court and people just cheer for him and just enjoy watching him
play, that's -- you know, that's a great feeling for a tennis player for every sports
person to be out there. 

Q. And meanwhile, I guess all of you are going through that to some extent all the
time. What you expect of yourself and what -- not listening to what others think of
yourselves? 

MICHAEL STICH: Sure. It is a thing you have to learn. Like in the beginning when you
start to play successful, you win tournaments, everyone tells you you're the greatest,
best tennis player, hey, you make a lot of money, all that stuff, and once you just
realize tennis and money isn't all in life. You know, there are other things and we play
tennis because we love the sport, because it is a sport and for us it became a business
because we're playing a professional sport with it, but still we're competing because we
love to play tennis. We're not here because some people want us to be here or because we
have to be here. All those guys out there, 128 players are here because they love to
compete, love to play tennis and they want to win. They want to get the best out of it. 

Q. So knowing that, did you walk away from your Grand Slam performances this year and
after the original or the original moment when you lost, were you able the next day to
say, well, that's that I'm not going to agonize over it or did you actually find yourself
-- 

MICHAEL STICH: I was still very disappointed. That's just -- Wimbledon, I made a
mistake by just walking off the court. I know I shouldn't have done it, but you make
mistakes and learn from it. I won't do it again. You have to accept a defeat and that
moment at Wimbledon for me was difficult. But a day later I played doubles and semifinals
in doubles and kept on playing and just said to myself, that's the way it happens. You
have another week. You play another tournament, you might win the other one next time.
It's just something you really have to accept. There are a lot of good players out there
and everybody plays really well. You can't expect yourself to -- like Sampras, it's just
unbelievable the way he was competing throughout this year, but he's paying the price
right now. He has been injured for quite some time. He maybe did too much to his body
playing that well, but he did. He played good tennis. But something is going to happen if
you play too much and play successfully. You're going to take a break. That's what
everybody is the same, I think. You just have to learn. 

Q. What group would you put Mats Wilander in? I know it is a difficult question? 

MICHAEL STICH: I don't know Mats as well -- that well, I couldn't tell. I don't know
his character, but he seems to enjoy being around and seeing his old fellows and being
part of the tour, but he's probably frustrated that he lost today, but it's not going to
take him a week to go over and take like four hours. Tonight, he'll go out for a dinner
and go to the bar and he's having fun. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT