VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 21, 1994
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Michael, what is your reaction to the match, the way you played, the way he played?

MICHAEL STICH:  I am disappointed.  I mean, I had enough breakpoints in nearly every game of the first set.  I was up two breaks twice and I served for the set. Can't be happy with that.  I didn't play as well as as I wanted to, and he played very solid.  He just made, probably, fewer mistakes than I did.


Q.  How good a player is he?  What is his potential?

MICHAEL STICH:  I think he had proven many times that he can beat good players, but, I mean, he is very young.  He is a very talented player, and I think it is a guy to watch out for in the next couple of years, but if he is going to be in the Top 10, Top 20, I can't tell.  Let us wait and see.


Q.  Michael, after you lost to him twice last year, did you work out how to change your tactics possibly this time against him?

MICHAEL STICH:  You know, my tactics was right.  I probably had about 15 breakpoints and just converted two breaks, and he had probably five breakpoints and something like that, and made -- won the match.  I think up to the breakpoints, I played pretty good; then I just didn't have the luck and the right touch to play the points in the right way.  But it was -- the chances were there. I just didn't take them.


Q.  Compared to other times you were with were missing many more backhands than usual.  Is that a problem, the clay, the balls, or --

MICHAEL STICH:  No, I just don't have the right timing yet to step into the ball and just hit it and just-- I mean, hit the ball; I am trying to push it too many times and you also have to say the court down there is not in great condition; a lot of bad bounces there, but that is an excuse.  I think for me, the first tournament on clay, the timing was not right there, and it was my game; and if I don't have the timing, it is very tough to, you know, to win the points if I can't play aggressive.  I am not a guy who plays from the baseline, topspin, so that makes it a bit more difficult.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT