VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 19, 1994
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was it basically what you expected from Guy after one year off or not?
 
MICHAEL STICH:  No, I think he played pretty well for not having had a match for one year.  He, for sure, was not that confident the beginning of the match, but then the second set he started serving much better.  We started to hit the ball, and it was not easy.  I played a solid match, but I think he could be -- to have a comeback like that after one year, he can just build up on that; I think that was a very good effort. 
 

Q.  Were you surprised the way he recovered; let us say in the second set, I mean --
 
MICHAEL STICH:  What happened to you? 
 

Q.  To me?  I tell you later.  It is not -- I mean, were you surprised the way he played on the second set, especially when, I mean, he had also three breakpoints consecutive against you?
 
MICHAEL STICH:  As I said, Guy, normally, when he is not that confident he has a lot of mishits and hits a lot off the frame; not stepping into the balls; today he tried to hit every ball clean.  He made mistakes, unforced errors.  That is normal when you haven't had a match for such a long time.  But as I said, I think it was, from his side, after one year, it was a very good match.  That is a good start for him to come back, I think. 
 

Q.  From your side?
 
MICHAEL STICH:  I played a solid match.  I mean, I didn't play anything great; nothing bad, I just played a solid match.  Everything can improve a bit, but I am not unhappy with my performance. 
 

Q.  Do you consider yourself the favorite of this tournament because you are seeded No. 1 or that doesn't mean anything?
 
MICHAEL STICH:  Just look out there who is playing right now.  No, I think there are couple of guys who can really do well.  There are so many new guys coming out right now and young players; especially Spanish players, and a lot of good players out there can win this tournament and it is -- maybe it is one of the old ones, but it can be a surprise to everybody who is going to win this tournament but I am here to win, obviously. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT