COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 12, 1993
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How tired are you now?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Very tired.  


Q.  Was it the key of this match, you think,  or --  

MICHAEL STICH:  You know, I just had my chance.  I had enough  chances to win the match, and I didn't do it.  Still, I  played a great match, and it was a great end to the  year.  I am still satisfied that I got to the finals.  It was bad luck.  But Petr deserved it.  He played two  good matches.  


Q.  Petr seems to be successful against you in  Germany or anywhere else.  Is there a special tactical  reason, or do you see --  

MICHAEL STICH:  I didn't even know that he was winning  against me in Germany all the time, and I really don't  care.  He won a couple of matches that were not that  important, and I won 2 matches that were very  important.  Winning Wimbledon and winning Vienna      finals, I think that is more important than winning  first rounds.  I don't really think about it, and I  don't really care about it.  


Q.  What were you trying to tell yourself through  the match to keep yourself going?  

MICHAEL STICH:  You know, I mean, I played the first set very  solid.  He was not playing that great.  I mean, I gave  away the second set.  The third set, again, I think I  should have taken the third set, and he would have been  frustrated and maybe would have been tired for the  fourth set.  But he kept hanging in there, and he  played really well, the big points, and I just knew I  had to concentrate on my serve; tried to get the break,  and that would have been the whole story.  But I didn't  make the break, so that is why I lost.  


Q.  What are you doing most -- what was the most  pleasing moment for the year for you?  

MICHAEL STICH:  A lot of pleasing moments, I think.  I mean,  just the end of the year was just fantastic.  Winning  Basel, winning Stockholm, winning the Masters, winning  Davis Cup; being in the finals here.  I think there is  nothing more I can expect of myself to do and was very  satisfied with myself.  I won four tournaments; again  four different surfaces; that I played so well in  Germany.  Every time I played in Germany, I won the      tournament.  That is something I am very proud of.  


Q.  I missed the first question.  Were you  surprised about how well Korda played considering how  late he was in action last night?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No, you know, I mean, everybody plays  tennis.  I think I had more right to be tired than he  had.  I mean, compared to the last four weeks we both  had -- I mean, he had a tough match.  But that happens  every tournament.  You got to play a tough match; you  got to come out and play the next day again.  I didn't  expect anything less than him playing really well and  hanging in there and not being as tired as anybody else  thought he would be.  So sometimes he is quite a good  actor, and he makes you believe that he is tired, and  then he is running for every shot.  So, I mean, I  didn't expect anything else from him than hanging in  there and being as fit as he was today.  


Q.  Even at the end of the match, you still  served at 200 kilometers?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Serve isn't a matter of force or fitness; it  is only matter of good swings, so I can serve equally  faster at the end of the match.  


Q.  Is it more the head or more the legs that  didn't want to go any further?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Both together.  If the head doesn't want, the      head won't run.  


Q.  Still you wouldn't have wished to play three  hours 48 minutes and so many games?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I would have preferred 6-1, 6-0, 6-0, but  still there is another player who has something to say.  


Q.  Was it an advantage for him that people said  that he was going to be too tired to play?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No, I am more entitled than he to be tired  because he only had one tough match yesterday.  Many  people thought he would just go for two sets and not be  able to make anything more, but I knew it wasn't  right.  


Q.  Are you disappointed, frustrated or satisfied  after all at this very moment?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Of course, I am not frustrated, but I am a  bit disappointed I lost that.  Then again, I did -- I  know I did everything I could, and I didn't expect to  be in the final at the beginning of this week.  


Q.  Did you ever see Boris Becker watch an entire  match of yours?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Not in the hall.  Of course I am not with him  when he watches TV.  


Q.  Next surface coming up might be snow?  

MICHAEL STICH:  The next surface coming up is my bed.  It  would be nice because I want to recover a couple of      weeks.  There would be some snow - that would be nice -  but, I am not making any plans right now.  


Q.  Do we have to reckon that there will be  setbacks next year after such a glorious year?  

MICHAEL STICH:  There will be no setbacks -- I wouldn't  consider it as a setback if I go from No. 2 to No. 5.  Next year will be a new deal.  I don't have any  illusions.  I know I must go on with working hard and  if I do, maybe I win one Grand Slam tournament instead  of two smaller ones.  That would be great.  


Q.  Would you again have the courage it takes to  go on the Tour as you did this year for 1994?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Well, if I know I am successful, I would be  pleased to do it.  I'd rather play many matches instead  of being eliminated in the first round of the  tournament.  Then I must say something more in general  terms; I think our job is hard, tough, but it is most  interesting and rewarding, and we get a lot of money  for it.  And I don't think anybody should complain  about playing too many tournaments.  


Q.  What about Japan and your plans for next  year; has anything changed?  

MICHAEL STICH:  If you -- if that is an allusion to the Davis  Cup, I haven't made any decisions so far.  And then the  ATP has got something to say, because there is a number      of designation tournaments to play.  And maybe I am  going to play 22 not 25 and that would mean I would  have to counsel one or two and that might be the case  of Japan.  


Q.  Are you going to try to convince Pilic  to go on working with you?  

MICHAEL STICH:  After all, let us not forget he is the Davis  Cup Team captain and it may be difficult for him.  Then  we had two or three very successful and I might ask him  to at least help me at tournaments.  Then we have to  ask the German Tennis Federation because he is the  Davis Cup Team Captain. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT