COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 11, 1993
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Michael, are you beginning to think that  everything you touch will turn to gold?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I think Stefan played the first two sets just  incredibly well, and I didn't have a chance, and I got  really, really upset about that because everything he  touched was going in, and he made every point he wanted  to.  I got really angry about it.  I thought, okay, try  to hang in there and just show him that he is not going  to win that easy.  And, I mean.  I got that one break, and that  was the turning point.  After that, I mean, everything  I touched was going in.  I had the luck.  I had the net  cords and everything and, yeah, I mean, I am very  happy.  And, I mean, I feel a bit sad for Stefan  because he really played well and, he had a lot of  matches against me that went that way, so -- but, I  mean, I am very happy I won.  


Q.  Did you have such a feeling to do everything  as well as today towards the end of the match?  

MICHAEL STICH:  You know, you have those matches time and  time when you just go on the court and everything you  do seems to be so easy and the ball is just going  exactly where you want to hit it to, but I think today  was one of those days.  It would be good to have a  couple more of those last three sets.  


Q.  You said at the start of the week not  unreasonably that you didn't think that many people  expected you to win here.  Has that changed?  

MICHAEL STICH:  You have to ask the people, but, for sure, I  mean today after the first two sets, nobody expected me  to win this match.  I just kept fighting and hanging in  there, and that is the story of the whole year for me,  winning a match like this, and just -- I mean, the one  match, it shows what I did throughout the whole year  and, I mean, that is very important for me as well.  I  hope I can play a good final tomorrow, but I am not  expecting anything more than trying to stay in there  and try to win a couple of games and maybe win the  match.  


Q.  Can you remember when you lost your last  match?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yes, I can.  That it was in Antwerp.  The  quarterfinals to Gustafsson, but I'd rather remember  victories than losses.  


Q.  You said that every victory by now is sort of  a Christmas gift.  The tables should be full now; why  is it that there are so many gifts?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I don't know.  But I think, basically,  playing Stefan, for me this is really important, and I  am lucky the way it goes right now.  Everything goes in  my direction.  


Q.  Looking at it from the stands, we had the  impression that one of these net cords was almost  embarrassing for you.  

MICHAEL STICH:  Well, in the beginning it was Stefan who had  all the net cords and then three in a row, he was  standing at one meter and they dropped almost on his  toe and then, of course, I do take these balls.  I  wouldn't give them back but I feel a bit sorry for  Stefan.  After all I am glad I won.  


Q.  2-6, 3-6 and first two sets the turning point  was the break at 3-3 in the third set.  What happened?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I started getting angry about the way  it went.  I said, okay, let us make a final attempt.  110 in the third set and if it doesn't work, it doesn't  work.  Then came the break 4-3 and I found a very good  rhythm in my returns and he started serving not as good  as he was serving before and then the match really  turned over and it was true reflection of the first two  sets; only in my favor; not in his.  


Q.  I had an interview with Ion Tiriac a couple  of days ago.  He said if Germany had had you in 1975  you would be chancellor by now; do you have any  political ambitions?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I had to smile when I read the article, but I  do not have any political ambition.  My ambition is to  play tennis and I am glad I do this fairly well.  


Q.  What now, today although there is still one  match left?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I am looking forward to my bed, to sports  show tonight on TV and for not immediate future but  next year I suppose will be important to keep fit and  to take this shape and this force over to next year.  


Q.  At any moment people would make for your  physical breakdown to come.  When is it going to come?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I don't know.  I felt a bit dizzy at the  beginning of the first set but I can't tell whether it  is also partly nerves because I knew I was playing the  semifinal.  I felt a bit dizzy, but then I fought  myself into the match and in a way, this is  psychologically better than that experiences and better  than not playing because I am going to victory and  victory and for my mental condition this is the best I  could imagine.  


Q.  How long a break does a tennis player need?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I don't know.  But you know that Qatar is  going to be in three weeks from now and I can't ask  them to postpone it from another three weeks so knowing  that two weeks bring a lot of recovery these three  weeks would have to do.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT