COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 9, 1993
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Michael, Brett put up a bit of resistance in  that match; didn't he?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yeah, I think he showed that he played well  yesterday against Pioline.  Played a good match.  It  sure was a tough match and a close third set.  


Q.  1993 has been a remarkable year for you.  How  much of it was as you expected; how much was it  unexpected?  

MICHAEL STICH:  You know, you can't expect to win  tournaments, but I mean, you go in the year, you think  you have a chance to win two or three, maybe, but, you  know, my goal was to finish the year in the top five,  and I reached that, and it came out much better than I  expected.  For sure, I didn't expect to win the Davis  Cup; to finish out No. 2; win the World Championship;  everything like that.  But, I mean, the goal was to  finish in the top five, and to do that, I knew I had to  play well.      


Q.  After this tournament -- at this tournament  last year, when you won it you said it wasn't so much a  good end of the year, but you were hoping it was going  to be a good catalyst and big movement for 1993 as it  turned out.  Do you see it the same way again, and you  have got the opportunity to move to No. 1, as well, in  the early part of your year?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No, I think I am in -- I mean, the next year  starts with the first tournament in Qatar, and you have  to start all over again.  I know I can do well, but to  repeat a year like I did this year and to do it as well  as I did this year is going to be very tough.  I don't  think too much about No. 1.  I mean, if I play well, if  I keep working on my game, I can do it.  If Pete keeps  on playing like he did this year, I mean, he is not  reachable, so I just try to improve and play good  tennis.  


Q.  How nearly do you think you are to being a  complete player now, a complete tennis player?  

MICHAEL STICH:  What is a complete player?  


Q.  One who has every stroke in the book; plays  it well.  

MICHAEL STICH:  I don't think there is a player in the world  who does have every stroke in his game.  I mean, I am  one of the few guys maybe who is capable of playing on      every surface and doing well on every surface, but that  doesn't mean that I have every stroke.  I would like to  have Agassi's forehand and backhand and his return, and  Stefan's volley, and my serve and whatever, but you  can't choose from that.  You have to play with what you  have, and I am very happy with the way I am playing.  


Q.  Where do you get all this energy from to play  that good here?  It is incredible.  

MICHAEL STICH:  Well, it was again this way today.  It was  fun playing, and I had a good rhythm, and I knew at  every single moment that I had the match under  control.  I could have won in two sets, and I did it in  three, but I think the energy comes from being very  relaxed.  


Q.  Do you get nervous when you want to win in  two sets and you lose the first; do you get nervous or  does it motivate you?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Frankly speaking, today I didn't really care  because I felt I had the match under control, and I had  no problems with my serve.  There was just one bad  game, and that was the break, and I knew I would break  him again.  I felt that he was only focused entirely  the first set, and then he played as well as in the  second.  I knew if I stayed on, I would win the match.  


Q.  You only got one pair of shoes, because I was under the impression that it was still the Dusseldorf  shoes.  Normally you play with only those shoes on  clay.  

MICHAEL STICH:  That is the sort of the one shoe I would have  some more, but, after all, indoors on clay and supreme,  I always take the same shoes.  


Q.  They say it is normally difficult to switch  from clay to Supreme, and is it because you have won so  much that this switching was not as difficult?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I didn't come here with too many  expectations.  I thought I would try and play good  tennis and, if not, bad luck, and I didn't think about  how to hit the balls and how to play and how to move on  the court.  It went okay this time; I had a good rhythm  and I am glad.  


Q.  Talking about the semifinals on Saturday,  waiting for Edberg or Ferreira, whom do you prefer?  Could you comment on both?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I don't really care.  I suppose it is going  to be a good match.  I won several times with both.  Recently I played very well against Stefan although I  lost a few matches.  I am going to go out on the court  and play for fun.  It would be nice if they could take  it to the best of 3 and not best of five, but I know  both are good players and of all, I don't really care.      


Q.  Would you wish it to be best of three and do  people discuss about it?  

MICHAEL STICH:  It will be better, of course, for me to play  not five, but only 3, but of course, I am not the one  they would ask and it is better this way.  


Q.  Nothing new about your coach?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No.  


Q.  You are having your best moment as a tennis  player right now.  Would you have preferred this to be  before the period of Boris Becker?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No, I am glad I have this period.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT