COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 8, 1993
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Michael, are you basically playing on  adrenaline now, or do you still have something in  reserve?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No clue.  I just went out there today and  really enjoyed playing out there, and I played pretty  well.  I mean, I returned pretty well.  Served okay on  this surface; it is so fast, and I knew if I could  concentrate on my serve a bit, and get a lot of first  serves in and it makes life easier.  Then I started  returning pretty well, and played a smart game.  


Q.  Was it difficult to motivate yourself given  the last two marvelous events you have had?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I didn't even think about motivation.  I just  thought about coming here and really enjoying the first  match, the only one, and the last one, or the first  one; it doesn't matter.  Just get out there and enjoy  it and have fun.  


Q.  Do you find it much easier to come from clay  to this surface than the other way around and how much  time did you have to hit on this court?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No.  Yesterday, I hit one hour fifteen, I  think, and this morning, 20 minutes, and normally it is  very difficult, but, I mean, I got the right timing  right from the beginning and it felt pretty easy, but  you have to say that Mal didn't play a great match.  He  missed a lot of balls and made life easy for me, too.  


Q.  Did you see any of Boris' match yesterday?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yeah.  I saw a bit of the match yesterday,  yeah, but not the whole match; but the key moments,  like the beginning of the first and the end of the  second set.  Yeah.  


Q.  Were you disappointed that he didn't get  through to meet you this week, or were you disappointed  that he was not playing competitively?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I really didn't care, I must say.  For him,  it would have been good to win - no question about it-  to get some confidence, but I didn't think about him.  I mean, I thought about myself playing my first round  and trying to win.  


Q.  Would you say now that you have won in  Frankfurt and Davis Cup that you don't feel any  pressure anymore even if you have a title to defend?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No, I don't feel any pressure at all.  It is  just -- I don't think that anybody is expecting of me  to win this tournament, especially after the last two  events, and I think that is good.  I think I showed  that I am a good tennis player; I played two great  tournaments in Germany, and now every match I win is  like a Christmas present to myself.  That is what I am  trying to do, to give me as many presents as I can.  


Q.  Michael, what do you intend to do since you  finished with this tournament, and when do you plan on  getting down to Australia?  

MICHAEL STICH:  After this one, it is two weeks, holiday,  Christmas, and then I start with Qatar, and after Qatar  I go down to Melbourne.  


Q.  Michael, your shoes look to have some clay on  them.  Were those the shoes that you used the last  match in the Davis Cup or the same or --  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yep.  


Q.  Did you notice at all that you are not  playing on clay?  

MICHAEL STICH:  There was a lot of changes yesterday to play  on this surface, and I simply decided I wanted to keep  the ball in the game, and it seemed to work today.  THE INTERPRETER:  When asked whether you were  going to play Davis Cup last year Boris said there will  have to be talks between 3 of them or 6 guys, and  Michael said he never heard about it.  And Dutch  newspaper wrote this morning, anyway, talk with four  eyes; he was blind anyway.  Mike announced since he  didn't hear about this, he didn't want to comment on  it.  


Q.  After the Davis Cup, did you have any moment  at all to reflect or were you just looking forward to  Munich?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Of course I would have appreciated one more  week off before coming to Munich, but -- and then I had  plans, sort of active recovery before coming.  But  anyway, I am going to try to win each match, and it  worked perfectly so far, but we will see the remainder  of this week.  Yes.  


Q.  Michael, last year you came here, your  confidence was really down, and between the Davis Cup  and now did you ever consider what happened last year;  could you compare --  

MICHAEL STICH:  I first considered only two days that I had  to -- I have to enjoy my Davis Cup more than  remembering last year.  I played very good tennis last  year here; it was the beginning of an excellent year of  1993.  At this point in time I think I have got to  consider next year and not remember last year.  


Q.  People presented you with an award and polls  showing your popularity.  Is it only sports reasons or  do you see any other arguments that might speak in  favor of this rise in popularity?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Well, I suggest you ask the people who  participated in this polls and then representative  polls are never as representative as people might think  because they would never ask 50 million people.  If you  are lucky, they ask the right thousand people and if  you are not, they ask the wrong 1,000 people.  Of  course, it is a nice feeling and especially being  elected athlete of the year is really something I  suppose is due to the sports success and not other  things, but look at Boris, as soon as there is no  success in sports anymore, the media starts writing  down and killing him.  


Q.  Does success make things easier because after  practicing today I saw you walk up twenty steps and you  gave autographs?  You wouldn't have done this a year  ago.  

MICHAEL STICH:  I did so four years ago, again I did three  and again I did two years ago.  


Q.  Thank you.    

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT