ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 1993
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MICHAEL STICH:  No, I think it was a pretty difficult match.  There is no question about it.  I think there were 2  key points in the match.  If I would have won the first  set probably 6-2, I don't know if Pete would have got  back onto his feet and started playing better, but I  let it back into the match in that first set.  Fortunately, I won the breaker.  And then  second set, he played really well.  And the third set,  breaker for sure was a key point.  I mean, we both had  our chances, and I took mine at the end and won that  break.  After that, I think he was a bit frustrated,  maybe a bit tired, too.  Then it was easy game in the fourth set.   
 

Q.  You have won about 2 breakers in every 3  throughout the year and got a pretty good record in  your career.  Why do you think you are so good at them?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  I don't know, and I don't want to think about  them.  I just keep it as it is.  I mean, I think  everybody tends to, you know, play a bit loose the  first couple of points in a breaker because you are  serving well and it is working quite well.  You lose  one point, you are getting nervous a bit.  You get a  bit tired; you lose another one, that is a breaker,  probably I try to play every point very seriously and  be 100 percent there on the first point.  That pays  off.   
 

Q.  Where does this rank for you?  Where does  this rank for you in your career?  What does it mean to  you?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  Yeah, I think after the Wimbledon victory it  is for sure the most important win I had, and -- not  getting close to the Wimbledon win, but I think it is   -- it has been a great year, and I think it's a great  finish on the ATP/IBM Tour to win this tournament,  because -- to finish the year with a win.   
 

Q.  You say nothing got close to a Grand Slam.  Jim Courier talks about Davis Cup being equivalent --  almost equivalent to a Grand Slam.  Do you feel if you  win it in two week's time that would be a bigger  achievement than this?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  Totally different.  I think you can't compare  those things.  Here I am playing for myself as a single  competitor.  Davis Cup you are there with a team; you  are not just playing for yourself; you are playing for  the team, playing for the point for the team, and I  think you can't compare those two.  But winning the  Davis Cup, I think is what everybody tries to do in the  game.  It is one of the most important victories you  can get.   
 

Q.  Do you remember any other occasion where you  were crying?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  Where I did what?   
 

Q.  You were crying from the court?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  Yeah, I did that before, that is for sure.   
 

Q.  When?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  In Hamburg.   
  UBALDO SCANAGATTA:  Do you remember it is  difficult all the matches you played this year, is this  one of the best or not?   
 
MICHAEL STICH:  Yeah, I think to the end of the year reached  probably 11 where I can say I am playing my best tennis  right now throughout the whole year.  I played well all  the other tournaments I won, and I played great in  Wimbledon.  I mean, I lost the match.  I could have won  and it was just a great match, but I mean at the end of  the year winning Stockholm, playing Paris, Antwerp; now  winning here, just having all the confidence I need and  just having to trust in my game and in my shots and I  think right now I am for sure playing the best  throughout 93.   
 

Q.  You have not won a Slam this year.  Now you  are No. 2 on the computer.  Are you comfortable with  that?  Do you feel like that is where should be at the  end of the year?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  That is always tough to say.  If you look at  Jim he played 3 finals.  He lost in the round of 16 or  32, I mean, you know, you can say he deserves to be No.  2 after Pete, but you know, you have to play 11 months  of good tennis; not just 8 weeks of Grand Slams.  Nobody is going to be No. 1 if he wins 4 Slams.  So  that just shows that you have to play really well  throughout the whole year, and I would rather would  have liked to win a Slam and be No. 2 with a Grand Slam  victory.  Now, I mean the ranking of No. 2, I won 6  tournaments this year; won the World Championship at  the end, I don't really think about if it is fair that  I am No. 2 or not, just-- I just take it and I am very  happy about it.   
 

Q.  Is it important for you to win so many  tournaments in Germany?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  You know, it seems that I really like playing  in Germany.  I mean, this year I played 6 tournaments.  I played six times and the finals I won three or four,  and I just enjoy it.  I just have the support from the  spectators, and I really like to play in Germany and I  am -- the success shows that I do the best in my home  country.  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  It is tough to say.  I mean, there might be a  season where I am going to win like three, four clay  court tournaments, but you know, if you don't have  wind, rain, everything that comes into it when you play  and the sky, it makes it a bit easier especially for  guys like me, Pete, Boris Stefan and so on.  But I  think there is always room for improvement, and the way  I am playing right now is great, being mentally very  focused on the court and trusting my shots, and I like  to play on every kind of surface.  I mean, every  surface has its own rules, and you really have to think  about it, the way you are playing on every kind of  surface, I think that makes it very interesting.   
  UBALDO SCANAGATTA:  When you played Becker  two years ago here, 95 percent or so of the people were  for Becker.  Now, do you think it would be different  after two years?   
 
MICHAEL STICH:  I don't know, and I don't want to think about  it.  Find out somehow, but you know, I still think  Boris is what he is and he did what he did and that is  just great for the tennis, and he deserves all the  credit he gets.  I deserve the credit I get.  And there  are going to be 50% on my side and 50 on his side,  maybe 70/30.  I had to learn that the last two years  and there are always going to be-- let us put it that  way, that they like to see heroes in the country and he  was the one that brought tennis really to be recognized  and that he deserves the credit he gets.   
  UBALDO SCANAGATTA:  Do you feel the crowd  today was very warm behind you or not?   
 
MICHAEL STICH:  I think they were really supporting me very  good and I had a great start of the match.  Pete played  really well then, so it was not easy for the spectators  to really get up to the match and just being very  pumped up; especially in the second set when Pete  played really well and I didn't do so good.  Then in  the third set, when it was getting close and it was  3-All, 4-All, I think they really enjoyed it, played a  couple of very good points and it was exciting.  I hope  they had fun and enjoyed the tennis.   
 

Q.  Do you feel you are more popular in Germany  now than two years ago?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  Don't ask me.  Ask the people.   
 

Q.  Your feeling.  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  I feel that I had a great week.  I just  enjoyed it a lot.  They helped me a lot, but it is not  up to me to measure if I am more popular or not.  I  just like playing in Germany.  I feel very  comfortable.   
 

Q.  Thank you.            

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT