ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 1993
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How did you feel when it got back from 6-3 to  6-All in the second set tiebreak?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  It was 6-3.  He served twice.  I think  probably two aces.  And, I mean, I hit good serve on  6-5, and he just played an unbelievable backhand return  down the line.  I just told myself to stay cool and  just change ends and wait for the next chance.  I had another chance; didn't make that  either, but I really concentrated on every point.  I  played a good break, got a bit lucky, so it was  important to stay cool.   
 

Q.  In a match as close as that, how important is  the crowd?  Is it a factor?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  I mean, it always helps a lot.  I mean, you  are missing a lot of chances; you know, you have a lot  of chances.  I had much more chances than he did and  just can't make them because he serves two aces again  and I think the crowd, especially when it is getting  that close, I mean, they are getting really excited;  they enjoy the tennis and were really supporting me.  That gives you that extra bit of motivation and being  pumped up that might win the match.   
 

Q.  Thoughts about Sampras tomorrow.  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  I mean, he showed that he is playing really,  really well today and/or the last couple of days, and I  know I have my chance; if I keep on playing like I did,  it is going to be an Open match.   
 

Q.  Does the fact that you become No. 2 in the  world if you beat him end of year, do you mind at all?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  No, I mean, I am just playing for the title  here and I want to beat Pete in the finals and if that  means I am No. 2, that is great, but if that would mean  that I would still be No. 3, just winning this  tournament would be the greatest success.   
 

Q.  Which one of the five matches that you played  against Sampras, do you remember the most?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  The one in Wimbledon, probably because I  really got kicked off the court in that match.  I  didn't play too well, and most times he played pretty  well against me; beat me most times, but you know, I  never really liked playing against him probably because  I always thought we play the same kind of game and I  was thinking too much about his game instead of  concentrating on my game.  Tomorrow I am going out  there try to concentrate on my game; try to find his  weaknesses and just play it point by point.   
 

Q.  Does he have any weaknesses?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  Anybody has those weaknesses.   
 

Q.  Are there other questions in English?  Thank  you.  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT