ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 1993
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Michael, did Jim strike you as any different  than when you normally see him?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  No, I think today compared to the last two  matches, I think he rely tried to concentrate and he  tried to play a good match as the last match for the  year, and he didn't play as good as he can play, but I  think I played really well, so I think the outcome of  the match was okay.   
 

Q.  But he didn't say anything to you at any  stage about why he has not done so well this week?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  He doesn't have to say anything.  He was the  best player for three years, most consistent player out  there.  Also he has a right to have a lapse of  interest, maybe, or concentration, and, unfortunately,  it was this week, probably.   
 

Q.  What do you think of the incident at the end  when he gave the ball -- the racket to the fan?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  To the ball boy?   
 

Q.  Yes.  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  It was probably the last thing he was trying  to do to win a point -- no.  I think, you know, that is  like I am saying, if you can put it in there and just  make a bit of a show and people like it a lot of people  stayed here for a long, long time, and I think they saw  a good match at the end of the first and the whole  second set, and just to give them something that they  really enjoy, they can have some fun with.   
 

Q.  Thoughts on the semi playing against Goran?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  You never know.  If he is going to serve 25  aces, it is going to be tough, but last time I beat him  in Stockholm and I know I can win against him and if I  keep on playing like I did the last three matches, I  know I have a good chance to win.   
 

Q.  How much does it matter, the fact that you  are playing with this crowd and being here?  
 
MICHAEL STICH:  We will find out tomorrow.  But so far it was  very good.  It was very enjoyable.  I had a lot of fun  out there and they supported me really well.  I hope  they do tomorrow again and I don't have a doubt about  it.   
 

Q.  Thank you. 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT