ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1993
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Were you aware what a wonderful match it was?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I think so, yeah.  Took a lot of hard work to  win it, and I think first two sets were very close, and  Michael played a terrific match.  So did I.  I mean, I  couldn't do any better than just hanging in there and  trying to, I mean, win that second set.  He made it  very tough for me.  


Q.  Obviously at the end of the match you were  thanking the crowd, and how much of a role did they  play for you?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I think it was a great atmosphere, especially  because it was a good tennis match and I kept hanging  in there and try to take my chances, and they supported  me.  It always helps.  If you play well, you have a  couple of good shots, even a couple of bad shots, and  they are still trying to push you and trying to help  you to win the match.  I mean, it was just a great  atmosphere and it was a lot of fun to play out there.  


Q.  Does this give you a sense of what kind of  progress you have made thinking back two years ago when  you didn't win a match?  

MICHAEL STICH:  It is better than two years ago.  


Q.  Do you think anything new happened to make it  easier on you?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Not at all.  Two years ago was a different  story.  I was a different player.  I have changed.  I  was different.  I am concentrating really well on the  court.  I am prepared; knowing what I have to do to be  successful.  I did that the last two matches.  


Q.  Courier was surprised yesterday by his  serve.  What do you think about it?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Jim was surprised about what?  


Q.  About Michael's serve.  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yeah, I mean, he served probably as many aces  as I did and that is not normal for Michael.  I think  he improved his game a lot.  His whole game not just  his serve.  He played so aggressive today.  He was  probably more at the net than I was and that just shows  that he had a good idea; good tactics how to play the  match.  You see him, he is so quick and fighting  everything down and I just waited for the moment when  he was going to make a couple of mistakes.  But he  played -- in the first two sets he played really well.  


Q.  Yesterday you said you were a little bit  nervous.  What about today?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Today was much better.  Winning the first  match yesterday was great and playing against Michael  is always normally good matches and it is not just  serve and volleys, something like that, you have to  really try to play the points, but I was looking  forward to that and I really was thinking about  enjoying this match and that is what I did.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT