ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 1993
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Michael, 5-1 you seemed to be well in  control.  Did he pick up his game a little bit or where  you saw his game slip away?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I think he returned pretty well.  I think  that was his biggest strength today.  He was not  serving that well and made a lot of easy mistakes from  the baseline but I always had to watch out for his  returns.  He made a lot of straight winners off my  serve.  That was the danger today, I think.  


Q.  But on whole, you were pretty happy with the  way the first match went.  You looked fairly relaxed  out there.  

MICHAEL STICH:  Sure.  I was so nervous before I went out  there.  The first match is always the toughest one for  me.  After not having won a set here two years ago, I  am very happy with the way I played for the first match  and obviously that I won.  


Q.  Have you had this event on your mind these  last few weeks when your results have not been as good  as the rest of your year?  

MICHAEL STICH:  What do you mean my results weren't that  good?  


Q.  In the last two, three weeks compared to with  --  

MICHAEL STICH:  Three weeks.  I won Stockholm.  I think that  is pretty good.  I didn't-- I think-- I played pretty  well.  I won Stockholm.  I played the quarters in  Paris; played the quarters in Antwerp and I played  still good tennis.  It was not that I was playing  badly.  And no, I didn't think about it.  I wanted to  get as many points as I was able to, because I wanted  to take every chance I have to maybe go one spot up on  the rankings and didn't work out quite as it could  have, but I mean, I think the end of the year was as  good as the rest of the year.  


Q.  Where do you think you are at in terms of  your tennis development stage?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I can't tell.  You probably better ask the  experts or people who watch me play a lot.  I think  there is still work to do.  I think you can ask every  top player; he can still improve and I think he would  say yes.  I still can improve; especially on the mental  side.  Sometimes I am getting too upset about different  things, but actually I don't want to worry about it.  I  am happy that I won.  I am looking forward to the match  tomorrow.  That is all I care about.  


Q.  At the same time, can you feel a measure of  improvement yourself each year?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yeah, I think I played very consistent  throughout the year.  I mean I had my lapse and I had  covered tournaments that I didn't play too well.  I  think everybody had that this year.  I still won five  tournaments.  I played really well in Davis Cup and all  the Team Cups that were this year, and so I am very  happy that I played quite consistent.  


Q.  What is the feeling of winning here in the  Festhalle?  

MICHAEL STICH:  It is beautiful.  Always better than losing.  No, but winning my first match here, being  the second time here, I mean it is a good feeling.  


Q.  What do you think about the line calls in the  7th game of the second set?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Lines calls, the 7th game of the second set.  Whoo, I don't know.  I think there were a couple of  serves that were close, but they were all good.  


Q.  The three aces?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yeah, but they were all good.  They were very  close, but I think the machine worked well on those  ones.  


Q.  Any other questions in English?  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT