ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 1993
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Do you feel self-confident?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yes, I'm looking forward to the match here.  There is some pressure, however not from the audience,  but it's the pressure I put on myself because I want to  be extremely good.  For the past one and a half years  I've been playing well in Germany, on German  tournaments.  


Q.  How is your game in comparison to twelve  months ago?  Has anything changed?  

MICHAEL STICH:  That's difficult to say.  I'm much more  confidence than twelve months ago and twelve months ago  I wasn't here.  That's a big difference.  I'm the  Number 3 of the world again, and that shows that I've  worked hard and I'm quite confidence.  


Q.  What's your aim for the coming year, for next  year?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I don't think of next year now.  I still have  this tournament to play, then the Davis Cup finals,  then the Grand Slam Cup.  There are many more  tournaments to come, so I've no time to think about  next year.  


Q.  Are you satisfied with your tennis in the  past time?  Do you play too much?  

MICHAEL STICH:  That's always the same question.  If you play well, you play a lot.  If you play bad, you don't play  a lot.  However you make it, it's wrong.  If I knew at  the beginning of next year that I will win five  tournaments, I could plan accordingly.  But you never  know.  Look at Pete; he won eight tournaments, and he  has played a lot.  Concerning me, I prefer to play a  lot and have success instead of playing less.  


Q.  Michael, you brought Germany into the Davis  Cup finals without Boris?  

MICHAEL STICH:  It's important to play the Davis Cup times.  It's not important who's on the team.  I think we have  played three good Davis Cup matches, and everyone on  the team contributed to it, to achieve this success.  


Q.  We have talked about the subject of the press  trying to get into the head of the tennis player in  order to tell the people what they think.  You had  problems with the press in the past.  The press  intrudes into private matters.  Do you still have these  problems with the press?  

MICHAEL STICH:  If you're working for the press and you show  interest for a person, it's mostly private in order to  find out the personality of the person, and this leads  to conflict.  On one hand you want to find out how the  person really is;  on the other hand, you have the  problem to put that into words in order to get through to the public.  I think the public knows enough  about the players and about support in general.  I  think if we don't maintain that little privacy we have,  it would -- there would not be as much sports people.  


Q.  It has been proposed that the game needs more  show, more sensation in order to attract the young,  like rock and roll groups in tennis in order to make  tennis sell better.  What do you think about that?  Do  you agree with this idea, or do you support the  traditional way of tennis?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I can only say for the past 25 years tennis  has not changed a lot.  The players have gotten  stronger, faster, and the game is faster.  The people  who are interested in tennis come in order to watch  tennis.  You can call yourself lucky if you see one of  those matches which go into the fifth set, like, for  instance, in Wimbledon where 7-6 in the fifth set, but  you can also be unlucky and have a match 6-2, 6-2,  6-2.  However, the players cannot only satisfy the  expectations of the public.  When you pay 50 marks you  don't have the right to see three and a half hours of a  good tennis match.  Everybody tries to win and play as  good as he can, but I think with respect to changing  the game it's just a sport, and it should be fun.  


Q.  Michael, when you come to tournament as the only German, were you disappointed that Boris is not  here, or especially when you think of two years ago, is  it a relief for you to represent the country on your  own?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Neither.  Like you say, I'm not playing for  my country; I'm playing for myself as good as I can.  The fact that this tournament is taking place in  Germany is a big advantage for me.  And concerning  Boris, if he would have qualified, it would have been  good for the German tennis and for him, and surely for  the spectators.  If we had not been in one group, I  would not have had anything against it.  But if the  same thing had happened as two years ago, and the  people start to compare us, who's the better player; to  compare our game, that destroys the real tennis.  We  try to do our best; it is not important who's the  better player.  


Q.  Is there a chance that you play doubles  together?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I've no problem with that.  We just have  different opinions on certain things, and I could name  15 other players which are of another opinion, but that  has nothing to do with it, that I don't want to be on  the court with him, that I don't want to see him or  don't want to practice with him.  The more the press puts into it, the more difficult it gets.  


Q.  Would you have liked to have him on the Davis  Cup team?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I don't care.  If he decides to play, great,  because we'll have a stronger team then, especially on  fast surfaces.  But if he decides against, that's okay  with me.  I, too, want to have the opportunity to  decide for myself.  So I don't have the right to tell  him what he's got to do.  If he wants to play, he's  welcome.  


Q.  You just said especially on fast surfaces.  How important is it for a player to show that he can  win on any surface?  

MICHAEL STICH:  It's very important to me.  I have proved to  myself and to the public that I can play well on every  surface.  That shows that I can adopt my game to any  surface, and that I have the opportunity to win every  Grand Slam.  Doesn't matter, whether the U.S. Open,  Paris, or Wimbledon.  


Q.  Didn't you think that before?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I won tournaments before, so I had this  feeling before.  However, Grand Slams are different.  For me, it is a good feeling which shows that I'm doing  the right thing.  


Q.  If you look back, Michael, would you say that this month is one of the most challenging ones?  

MICHAEL STICH:  It can be a great month, but it also can be a  disappointment.  The fact that I'm here and that I'm in  the Davis Cup final is relevant, and it's going to be a  successful, exciting, end of the year.  


Q.  Can you rate your year 1993?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Except for the fact that I did not win a  Grand Slam, and did not play that extremely well in the  Grand Slams, I think it has been a fairly good year,  and I can be satisfied.  


Q.  You saw the last attempt of Boris to come  here, did you show sympathy or didn't it phase you?  

MICHAEL STICH:  It would be a lie to say that I showed  sympathy.  I didn't care.  I concentrated on my own  game and tried to play well.  It is a shame for him  that he didn't make it, especially as the defending  champion.  It is a shame for German tennis and for the  spectators.  As he said yesterday, I think there are  eight other players who have been better than him and  who deserve to be here.  


Q.  What about your memories regarding two years  ago?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I must say I've already forgotten that.  It  wasn't pleasant.  But maybe I exaggerated a bit two  years ago.  The spectators stood behind Boris, and now I can understand a bit better.  However, I don't  appreciate it.  But time changes.  I have changed in  the past two years.  I think the spectators accept me  now more as a player; they know I always try to give my  best.  I have matured and all that is of importance.  Even if we both had played this year, it would not have  been as in 1991.  


Q.  Regarding the number of tournaments you have  played, did you plan to become Number 1?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I think I had a very big chance in the  winter.  If I had won another three tournaments, I  would have had the chance to become Number 1.  With the  Davis Cup, it just got too much.  If I had gotten to  the finals in Paris, it would have been an optimal  schedule.  


Q.  It looks as if you are considering to become  Number 1.  

MICHAEL STICH:  It is not an aim.  My aim is to get better  and this year I saw the chance to get to the top.  Of  course in the U.S. Open I got out very early; that  wasn't a very good start, and it had diminished my  chances a bit.  But now afterward I must say that Pete  just played too well.  


Q.  What experiences have you made with the Davis  Cup.  You always hear contradictory opinions.   

MICHAEL STICH:  It is always said that we are put together for  reasons of convenience.  I think that is wrong.  And  there are four players who are put together for two  weeks and try to give their best.  Each of them tries  to adapt to the group and take back his own interests  that he would pursue as a single player.  That does not  mean that they necessarily have to be the best friends;  you don't find that in a soccer team; you don't find  that in any sport, that you go and eat every evening or  have coffee together.  


Q. You engage yourself a lot in the Davis Cup.  What would you prefer, a victory in the Davis Cup or a  victory here?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Both.  I could not choose one.  The victory  in the Davis Cup is team work, and one of the most  important titles, but the victory in the Masters is the  world championship. I would not swap one for the other.  


Q.  Medvedev is your first competitor.  

MICHAEL STICH:  Until Paris where he had been in the final,  Andre had had a bad indoor season.  He's a talented  player, as you know.  And here I think there will be no  easy matches.  Each match is hard.  The mental side and  the daily fitness are of importance.  It may sound  funny, but the chances are 50/50, even if it's indoors  on a fast surface. 


Q.  Michael, if I understood the English  correctly you just said that you understand that the  press shows interest for your private life.  Could you  explain that?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No.  You got that wrong.  I was asked that  there is an idea that the press should get to know the  players more personally in order to explain them to the  public.  I said that doesn't make any sense because the  little bit of privacy we have, we have to keep.  There  is always a conflict among the press to separate what  they are allowed to write and what they shouldn't  write.  


Q.  But it is correct that you have more  understanding for it than two years ago?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No.  If you ask me what I'm doing Sunday  afternoon, I will always say that's none of your  business.  


Q.  Concerning Sunday afternoon, do you think  you're going to spend some free time, or will you play  tennis?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I'll tell you that on Sunday.  


Q.  What do you say about the trainers situation?  

MICHAEL STICH:  At the moment, I'm not looking for a  trainer.  Nicky helps me at the moment in his function  as DTB-team chef, and there are far too many things to be considered, so I don't have time to look for another  trainer.  


Q.  Concerning the match tomorrow, will Nicky  give you tips, talk with you before the match?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yes, he'll do that, what every coach does.  He talks to me.  We talk about tactical details.  That's all.  


Q.  You are regarded as favorite.  Who do you  think is your main competitor?  

MICHAEL STICH:  All seven.  Pete has shown that he's the best  player this year.  Goran plays very well, if he serves  well. Stefan is a very difficult competitor.  I think  you should not underestimate any of them.  Neither  Bruguera nor Chang.  


Q.  Is your minor aim the semi finals?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No.  Every match is important.  I don't have  a minor aim.  


Q.  You are the Number 3 of the world.  Is there  a difference between you and the players above you,  anything special?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No, I don't think so.  I did not play that  well in the Grand Slams.  Only at the US Open.  I  played Wimbledon in the quarter finals.  The Australian  Open in the semi-file.  That's not that bad, but the  final is better.  Next year I will try to get into the finals.  


Q.  It must be hard to keep up the performance  for two weeks in a row.  

MICHAEL STICH:  I have played some semi-finals and quarter  finals at the Grand Slams, so two weeks in a row,  that's no problem, neither mentally nor physically.  But you also need a bit of luck, the right competitors,  on the right surface.  And then you might get right to  the top.  


Q.  Does a tennis professional need a permanent  coach or can that keep on changing?  

MICHAEL STICH:  That doesn't make any sense.  For me it is  not important that the coach understands all that much  about tennis. He must match the character of the  player.  If that isn't so, it won't work.  


Q.  Why you do you now afterwards understand that  the spectators --  

MICHAEL STICH:  Two years ago, I beat Boris in Wimbledon.  That is the first time somebody tried to get at his  thrown throne and he was the best player then.  And he  had performed much more in tennis than I had in the  past years.  That's why the fans were on his side after  Wimbledon.  


Q.  In the first round you're playing against a  baseliner. Do you have a special preparation? 

MICHAEL STICH:  No, I just play my game and don't think about  the game of the others.  Chang and Courier have adapted their game to  the fast surfaces.  So we will see them at the net.  


Q.  Do you know anything other of Frankfurt other  than the hotel and the tennis stadium?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yes, a bit.  


Q.  What?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I can't tell everything, but I have friends  here in Frankfurt.  I've been here several times.  


Q.  How do you feel physically?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Very good.  However, this would be the wrong  week not to feel good.  


Q.  The public always speaks of Becker.  How  important is it for you to be liked by the people?  

MICHAEL STICH:  It's always nice to be accepted by the  public, but from a thousand people, you will have 500  that like Boris and you'll have 500 who don't.  It's  only in the past he has played more tennis than I  have.  This does not concern the personality or the  character, but the sporting successes.  


Q.  But does this not get on your nerves?  I  remember the first question concerning the Davis Cup  was why isn't Boris participating.  

MICHAEL STICH:  To put it hard: this question is stupid.  This is not of importance.  The fact is that we have  got to the finals.  


Q.  Did you get your clothes from the ATP?  Who  chose this jacket?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I wouldn't say anything to this.  It seems  somebody has had a bad day.  


Q.  But you were not obliged to wear that?  Chang  and Courier didn't.  

MICHAEL STICH:  Okay, it's not easy to find the right size  for Michael.  And Jim, he just forgot it.  But that  makes everything a bit more interesting; not so stiff.  


Q.  Do you accept the tour as it is?  

MICHAEL STICH:  There are some things which are not -- which  are not so good, but it would take too long to name  them.  Besides, I don't need to do that in public.  


Q.  Can you name some?  

MICHAEL STICH:  The fact that we are told which tournaments  we have to play and that we have to play a lot of  tournaments.  But I don't want to say anything more to  that.  


Q.  Are there different opinions?  There are  always complaints, but nothing happens?  

MICHAEL STICH:  We don't have any influence.  


Q.  Couldn't you create a union?  

MICHAEL STICH:  The ATP is our union.  The ATP is supposed to support our interests.  That's the problem.  


Q.  Boris once said in New York that something  could be changed if the top ten players would stick  together.  

MICHAEL STICH:  I have been on the ATP Players' Counsel, and  tried to change something.  But you don't get any  feedback from the top ten players.  There is no time,  but maybe there is no interest.  Anyhow, there should  be time to read two sides of information.  


Q.  There is a chance here?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yes.  But you would have to prepare  everything.  


Q.  Will you play Qatar next year?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yes, I'm looking forward to it.  


Q.  Greetings from my colleagues from the  Bavarian Rundfunks.  They ask whether you will come to  the Bluckpunkt.  

MICHAEL STICH:  No.  


Q.  You had to stay here for one hour answering  the press?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Soon it's over.  No, that's part of it.  


Q.  What was the most frequent question?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I don't know.  


Q.  Three or four weeks ago you announced that  you were going to play in Queens? 

MICHAEL STICH:  Yes.  


Q.  You said that you were fit.  That was  amazing.  You played a lot, and many other players are  tired?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I'm tired, too.  However, I feel physically  fit.  The exhaustion is also mental.  However, I feel  good.  


Q.  I am intrigued by the way tennis has  developed in Germany in the past years.  I have a  strange question:  assume that Michael Stitch would  have been there before Boris Becker, would you have  been able to cope with the pressure of the public?  Put  into other words, has it been an advantage for you to  come after Boris Becker and consequently divert the  public from yourself?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I think the great difference is that I started  with tennis after having finished school at the age of  19 and had my first successes at the age of 22.  Boris  had his success when he was 16, and you're too young to  copy with the pressure of the public.  That's normal.  Everything is taken away from you, like the family.  


Q.  When Boris says that he will go on playing  for a few years, he will still be in his twenties.  

MICHAEL STICH:  I don't know whether he coped with it all  right; I don't know him that personally.  But he will never get back the time he has lost.  Everybody just  has to learn to copy with it.  I don't belong with the  people who are friendly to everyone.  I want to live my  own life.  


Q. Did you get this opinion after you were in the  limelight of the public?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No.  I had an idea when the first successes  came in, and I just followed my idea.  


Q.  Your theory was not to tell anything about  your private life?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yes, it's nobody's business what I do at  home.  And also in 20 years I will think the same.  


Q.  Why do you play in Halle, for financial  reasons or out of financial reasons?  

MICHAEL STICH:  No, because it's a nice environment.  And  grass is one of my best surfaces.  Why shouldn't I play  that tournament?  


Q.  What do you think about the roof?  It rained  a lot at the Davis Cup.  

MICHAEL STICH:  I don't think it makes any sense for grass.  When it gets humid, you can't play on grass.  The air  stays humid in spite of the roof.  


Q.  Will you play Davis Cup next year?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I don't know.  


Q.  Thomas Muster gave himself the title of Players' Captain.  Did you imagine him to be Player's  Captain?  

MICHAEL STICH:  He didn't need to give himself that title.  To sit on the bench is not my preference.  Anyhow, it's  only a term of the Austrian's.  


Q.  Regarding the two groups, you have a group  you can live with?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yes.  Maybe I've the better group, but you  should not underestimate anything.  


Q.  Michael Chang?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I don't need to say anything about him -- he  always gives 110 percent-- not regarding the time or  the score.  


Q.  Is there a particular tournament in your head  looking past?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yes, Rothenbaum.  


Q.  Is there a moment where you sit at home on  the couch and you think about everything, that you fall  to sleep smiling?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Maybe at the end of the year when I think  about 1993.  


Q.  Why do so many tennis players play golf?  

MICHAEL STICH:  You are outside in nature.  Nobody looks at  you.  There are no spectators, if no camera team is  nearby.  It's just relaxing. 

Q.  What was the most important in this year?  

MICHAEL STICH:  The most important was my marriage.  And then  some sport successes.  


Q.  Is that connected, your marriage and the  support successes?  

MICHAEL STICH:  Yes.  I've gained balance by my marriage.  


Q. Have you any plans for your mental strength?  

MICHAEL STICH:  I think I'm mentally as strong as Jim;  however, not 24 hours.  Because Jim is strong always;  24 hours.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT