COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 12, 1992
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Michael, I wouldn't like to ruin your week, fantastic week, this great week of yours but reminding you that you lost to Michael Chang in Antwerp the last time you played.  What do you remember of that match, and what do you expect tomorrow considering that of course you have more confidence? 

MICHAEL STICH:  I mean, I just saw today Michael is a player who never gives up my ball, any points, so that is great part of his game where he is very tough to beat with.  But, I mean, I played him twice, I beat him once very easily in hardcourt in Memphis.  I lost the last time in Antwerp where I played very bad.  But the chance is 50/50.  It is a finals.  He beat Goran today, I think one of the best players right now.  He showed that he is capable of playing on that fast surface as well.  It is going to be a tough match. 


Q.  Out of the three matches you played, which one has been the most difficult? 

MICHAEL STICH:  I think the toughest match was today because mentally it was very tough.  The first two sets were fine.  Up to that point, when I had the set point and like made a doublefault, I would say the second serve was out, and I mean from that point on, the whole match like went a strange way; when the machine broke down, I mean the whole match was destroyed and was more like, yeah, call it a war out there than a nice game.  But I think nothing is between Pete and me; it was just like we both played well, we wanted to win, just like it was a strange atmosphere.  I think from the mental side, it was the toughest match today. 


Q.  Maybe 13 is your lucky figure because if I remember Wimbledon, on tiebreaks, yeah? 

MICHAEL STICH:  Why is -- 7-6.  Well, that is the way to see it, 7-6, makes 13, but anyway, I think I should have won the fourth set a little earlier when we went into the tiebreak.  It was a little bit more close of course and some more luck in the second set.  But that is the way it went. 


Q.  From a playing point of -- How do you feel about how much money you made today? 

MICHAEL STICH:  Well, winning is really decisive.  That is of course winning against Pete -- against Chang tomorrow is sort of fundamental for next year.  Might sound strange, but you are happy to win and it is only afterwards that you consider the money you made. 


Q.  How did the way you played today compare with the way you played the other matches, this week? 

MICHAEL STICH:  I think I played really well, especially in the first two sets; I was returning very well, on his first and second serve.  My first serve was not as good as the last days, but I was moving well at the net, and I mean, the result could have gone the other way, as well, but probably I made the big points in the breaker especially where I just got one or two more returns in than he did.  I think all over, I played a good match. 


Q.  Any one point in time did you recall last year, three lost tiebreakers against Wheaton? 

MICHAEL STICH:  I could have won the tiebreaks today if I had thought of last year. 


Q.  If you will consider again this year the end of this tournament, maybe you have won it, would you change your mind about 1992, I mean, the opinion you had about yourself? 

MICHAEL STICH:  I wouldn't.  Probably a lot of people from the press would, but when I still know what kind of year I had, the way I played, I am still going to be No. 15 even after this tournament, so this tournament is not going to change that.  I had like an up and down year. 


Q.  You seem somewhat less emotional today compared to after winning against Edberg? 

MICHAEL STICH:  It was less fun simply than playing Stefan.  It is the way the match went today.  We both-- I think we demonstrated we both badly wished to win, and there was more aggressiveness on the court, and things that happened were no one's fault.  It was just less fun than a couple of days ago.  It was sort of a chain reaction.  There was a couple of bad -- wrong calls, towards the end of the second set against Pete, and then in a way he gave me the third set, and people seemed to be somewhat disturbed because I got the set, although it might have been a doublefault disturbed the rhythm of the player. 


Q.  Is it more pressure or is it an advantage to play in Germany tomorrow? 

MICHAEL STICH:  Well, three matches I played this week, I felt the crowd support.  This was something really great and super, and if today might have helped me to close the match, and if I lose tomorrow, which I don't hope, I still believe I have made three good matches and I decided to play a fourth good one tomorrow. 


Q.  Did we have the right impression, sometimes it seemed to really wait for the crowd to support you, you clapped the racket and waited while the fans -- 

MICHAEL STICH:  The crowd was fantastic today.  Normally you would expect the crowd to support you, but on the other hand, if I do this, normally it is after a good point played by Pete. 


Q.  Well, in the other three matches, many people could think you had nothing to lose.  Tomorrow, many people will think that you are the favorite against Chang on this surface no matter what is the ranking.  Do you feel the same way? 

MICHAEL STICH:  I mean, I don't -- I don't think for myself that I am the favorite.  I mean, Michael beat a couple of good players in this tournament, and as I said, he is a tough opponent, so -- I hope the spectators are coming, hoping to see a great match, hoping for sure that I am going to win and giving me all the support they can.  I'm just going to do the best I can, like the last three matches.  If I win great.  If Michael is one shot better, that is great too.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT