COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 11, 1992
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Michael, you hit four terrific service returns in that last game.  What was the difference?  Did he suddenly start dropping short? 
 
MICHAEL STICH:  No, I think at the beginning I didn't have too many chances.  He was missing a couple of easy balls.  Second serve came through very quick; he was serving well.  At end of the second set, I kind of looked on his serve and better rhythm.  I should have made that game before three matches points.  I played a good game there.  At the end, I mean, I played two very good shots, and just gave me the advantage.  
 

Q.  It was obviously a great result for you, Michael.  Would you agree that from a spectator's point of view that kind of match-- 
 
MICHAEL STICH:  Boring.  
 

Q.  Yes.  Basically. 
 
MICHAEL STICH:  I mean, I have to agree.  There weren't as many points as the match against Stefan that -- I think the reason might be because Richard is serving a little better.  He is serving faster, and he is not returning that well.  I mean, that makes big power of the game.  I think he had to play a lot more balls than I did actually at the net.  That just makes it more interesting than like playing against a guy like Stefan like the last night there.  Even if he gets a volley, you never miss it.  You always get like second, third shot to play him.  Here it is like serve and volley, that is it, or a return winner, that is it. It is not as interesting.  I think you could have that kind of game if I am playing him because we're going to both play serving and volley, maybe get a shot on a passing shot.  But it is not going to happen much more.  
 

Q.  Is it difficult to find your rhythm in a match like this because you don't have many balls to hit? 
 
MICHAEL STICH:  You have to take the chances on the return.  I mean, actually just go for it.  
 

Q.  How much of your confidence would you say you have recovered now? 
 
MICHAEL STICH:  Fully.  
 

Q.  I think you said, Michael, after you had won the Wimbledon doubles that the fact that Andre had just won the men's singles, that killed the debate about power in tennis.  Are you still of that opinion? 
 
MICHAEL STICH:  I mean, the best example is beating Michael Chang in the semifinals here.  I mean, for sure, he is not a kind of power player you would suppose like Goran or me; I mean, you have to admit that at the end of the tournament, a lot of times, those guys hitting big serves were the winners in the finals.  But when you have a couple of guys in the top ten like Agassi, Chang, Korda, Courier, I mean, those guys are not those kind of players, power players.  Everybody is just talking about the serve; it is so boring when you hit a lot of aces, but I mean, that is the way it is.  If it wouldn't be like that in tennis, then it wouldn't be like that in athletics.  You wouldn't have any world records.  It would always go back.  That is the way it is.  Players are getting stronger, better shape.  They are physically better.  Everything just changes and that is the way it is.  
 

Q.  Michael, the way you are playing here, does it show that you can be back in the top ten next year? 
 
MICHAEL STICH:  I hope so.  I mean, that is what my goal is.  That is what I am working for.  
 

Q.  Michael, how important are the home fans for you? 
 
MICHAEL STICH:  I mean, the match against Stefan, it was just great, the atmosphere, and today, like a set there was not so much to cheer for because very short points; still they are giving you support, and I think-- I mean, it is just like a bit frustrating for your opponent as well when I mean every time you after breakpoint, matchpoint, they are clapping for ten or fifteen seconds.  That is always the home advantage, yeah.  
 

Q.  What in your opinion took you so long to beat a top 10 player this year, mental problems, did you have, or physical problems? 
 
MICHAEL STICH:  Just played worse than last year.  It is pretty easy.  
 

Q.  There is a soccer match Saturday and you caught a cold. Will you-- 
 
MICHAEL STICH:  Maybe you watch me carefully tomorrow so I don't go to see the soccer match.  Last year it was said I caught a cold but that is not true.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT