ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 1992
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How was the week for you in tennis, for doubles-- and in view of a build-up for Barcelona? 

MICHAEL STICH:  I think it was great week.  I mean, today we played, I think, a very good doubles match.  We were always on top of of those two guys.  They never really had a chance.  We just -- each of us had one breakpoint and one service game against our serves.  We stayed pretty solid.  After that, we always had control over the match. 


Q.  How many odd things did you have to change in order to adjust to play together? 

MICHAEL STICH:  I think it was just a matter of getting, you know, used to the way the other guy is playing on the court.  That is the main thing in doubles, that you really have to try to find out what the other guy is doing when he is standing at the net.  When he is moving, which side he is moving too, in those situations.  I think today was perfect. We changed sides a couple of times, we just went through.  And very, very good standing at the net -- at the net as well, there was not one point where we didn't know who was going to take the ball.  It was always like we knew what was going to happen. 


Q.  Are you surprised at how well you played together? 

MICHAEL STICH:  Yeah.  I mean, sometimes you know, when it is going well, both are playing well, both are motivated.  Then it goes quicker, that one is going home or thinking about the next tournament.  I think it was great.  I think we -- every doubles we have played, we played better and better.  And at the end we just played very well. 


Q.  How many times have you played together before? 

MICHAEL STICH:  We played two times together before that, that was like three years ago. 


Q.  How many other tournaments will you play together before Barcelona? 

MICHAEL STICH:  We are going to play Rome, that is for sure now.  After that we have to see what chance we have to play together again, so we don't know that yet.  Because, I don't know the schedule exactly, what he is going to do afterwards. 


Q.  Will you be playing together in Paris and Wimbledon? 

MICHAEL STICH:  Definitely not at Wimbledon, for sure.  No, I don't think so.  Paris, maybe, but I would say very unlikely. 


Q.  What about your own game?  You have not been playing particularly well this year -- 

MICHAEL STICH:  I didn't win a tournament, let us put it that way.  I didn't play that well, as I did last year.  But, I mean, you always need to get some some matches to get some confidence.  Doubles was always, for me, very good to get some confidence.  I hope it helps my game, to lift my game up again.  I'm just playing well and things -- I played well a couple times and lost some very, very tough matches.  I didn't win any tough matches this year.  Every tough match I played I lost.  I think it is coming back.  I made the quarters at the Australia Open.  I just didn't win a tournament.  I never lost in the first round, just one time.  So it was not that bad, but not that great. 


Q.  Anymore questions in English?

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT