COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 3, 1996
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Are you glad to have even more time to prepare for Australia after this match?
 
 MICHAEL STICH: No, of course not. I would have liked to win; to have another match; to
practice. But, Tim played extremely well. And, considering that I didn't practice and play
for five weeks, I'm not even dissatisfied. There was a lack of timing, mobility and a lot
of things, but I had to know where I stood. Of course, I would have liked to have won. No,
I'm not too surprised, I'm not too frustrated. 
 
Q. What's coming now, considering this match? What will the future bring after what you
learned today? You said this tournament would be the starting point of your new season.
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Well, I'm going to practice, to train, to be fit physically in
Australia. My aim is to play well, come to grips with my shoulder. This is my goal now,
keep working at this to come to grips with all my problems. 
 
Q. Is Tim one of the possible Top 10?
 
 MICHAEL STICH: This is hard to say. He is very talented; plays very well. It takes a
lot of luck, chance. I don't know how he's going to handle the publicity. You have to ask
Tim. He's the only one that can answer. Potentially, his possibilities, I think he's one
of those that could really go far. But, there's never any warranty about this. 
 
Q. The television commentator said you were hesitating last night whether you wanted to
play; is that right?
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Yes, but because my shoulder was hurting. My serve is hampered by my
shoulder. Whether it's right or wrong, I didn't really know whether to play or not. If you
really want to know where you are, you have to play such a match to see what you can do,
how you handle the pressure. This is how I decided to play today. 
 
Q. Are you glad you played or, considering your performance, was it a wrong decision to
play?
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Well, this would mean that it was a catastrophe, my performance? No. Tim
was very good. He didn't have a lot of mistakes. He gave me a hard time. Like I say, I'm
not complaining. I'm glad I played. I know what's lacking for Australia. As I mentioned,
you can only find out in a match; not in practicing. 
 
Q. More fundamentally, you have been very successful here. What's the relevance of this
tournament for you as a tennis player, and what's the positive?
 
 MICHAEL STICH: I think it's a very good tournament now. Not only talking about players'
money here. Of course, if top players have to cancel, it's loses value in terms of sports.
I think because of criticism during the first two or three years, it's a well established
tournament, the organization is brilliant, nice to play here. Unfortunately, we're not
talking about points, ATP points. We'll see next year, if it changes a bit, the new date,
how it fits with the tournament calendar. 
 
Q. The German news agency said you have denied or turned down a discussion here about
Davis Cup; is that right?
 
 MICHAEL STICH: No. As I mentioned yesterday, I'm not upset with the German Federation.
Suggestions have been made. Mr. Sanders, who is the secretary of the German Federation,
wanted to talk to my manager, Boris and myself, he was the only one who knew. Three weeks
later he informed us by letter. Well, of course, this is why he had to arrange this
meeting. We had made many suggestions as far as the cooperation is concerned. These
proposals made have been taken up by the federation. Six months later, they still lack any
concept in implementing these proposals. As far as the Davis Cup is concerned, I've been
talking to Niki Pilic. It's his job. Sanders doesn't have anything to do with this. We
didn't need to talk with Dr. Stauder or Mr. Sanders about the Davis Cup. This is why the
discussion didn't take place; not because we had turned it down. 
 
Q. Coming back to the match, my impression was you made a lot of errors today, unforced
errors. Is this due to a lack of fitness, practice, or was it your shoulder?
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Well, as I mentioned, Tim played very fast. He gave me a hard time. I
never had time to play the balls I wanted. I was always half a step too late. Timing was
lacking. Then, of course, you're not aggressive enough. All the motion, mobility, it
didn't come together very well today. 
 
Q. What are the concepts that you introduced to the federation, that they didn't want
to implement?
 
 MICHAEL STICH: I do not want to talk about this in any detail. The media are bringing
it up, and up again. We have rather different points of view on a couple of things. At the
beginning of this year, I made a lot of proposals, and the federation said, "Okay, we
are going to think about your talent scouting, how you can improve things to get new
players." Six months later they come up with the same points and say, "These are
all proposals." Well, I had made these proposals at the beginning of the year. So,
why do they ask us? If we're talking about good ideas and good approaches, why don't they
implement all this? Two weeks after the US Open, Mr. Scheitenberger should have received
all these proposals, and we didn't. This is hard to build upon. Even if you talk, it
doesn't help. This is why we have these managers. This is their job. This is why they do
these discussions and invite people to discussion. We didn't even know about it. I didn't
think this was a good way to do things. The communication doesn't go smoothly. We are not
on the same wavelength. 
 
Q. It must be frustrating. You have a cooperation agreement with the federation, and
you have to supply concepts for the future. Now you supply concepts and they don't
implement. You delivered on your part of the agreement. What about you personally, if you
see that the other side doesn't supply anything?
 
 MICHAEL STICH: Well, you ask Mr. Sanders. He's going to tell you that I didn't supply
any concepts; that he did. The point of the matter is that I have a very different opinion
about how things should go than all the officials in the federation; it's difficult to
understand each other. You must understand that Mr. Sanders cannot decide on his own
frequently because he doesn't have the competence. There's a board. There are 15 people
who have to give their go ahead. And, they are not involved in active sports. They are
doing the important federation things. They are important, of course, but they are not
involved in sports. It's a major problem. 
 
Q. Couldn't you give one example where you don't agree?
 
 MICHAEL STICH: No, I don't want to talk about this in any length. No, I'm not upset
with the federation. We are not quarrelling. We simply don't agree. And, this has to be
accepted, that's it. This is a thing between the federation and my manager and me, myself. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT