U.S. OPEN
August 26, 1996
Michael Stich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Bet you're happy that's over?

MICHAEL STICH: It's hot out there.

Q. What did you think of Tommy, his first time at the Open?

MICHAEL STICH: You know, I think -- I mean, he's definitely a good player. He's got
good strokes, especially on the forehand. He's a tall guy. I don't think he really --
didn't look to me he really had a game plan to go out there and try to get to some kind of
tactics. In the second set he played well. I struggled on my serve, had problems with my
shoulder. As you said, it's his first Grand Slam. I think there's much to learn for him
and that's going to happen, definitely. And he's going to improve every time he plays a
Grand Slam match.

Q. Have you had trouble with that shoulder all year?

MICHAEL STICH: No. Since the French Open, basically. At the end of the French Open, sat
out a bit of the grass court season. I took two and a half weeks off and thought it would
get better. It even got worse. For that reason I only played one match, Los Angeles. I
flew back, had treatment, had to cancel the whole summer. It's been bothering me now for
about ten weeks or something like that.

Q. What is the problem, Michael?

MICHAEL STICH: It's inflammation of the rotator cuff of the supraspinatus and the
biceps tendon. Basically the whole shoulder is inflamed. It's not real pain, sharp pain,
it's just something that's bothering you. All the muscles around the shoulder are really
tight. It helps me double-fault a bit more.

Q. Surgery?

MICHAEL STICH: Get away from me (laughter). No, no. Nothing here. Just something you
need to give a rest to get rid of.

Q. Michael, are a lot of the men's players still in an uproar about the seeding
situation and the draw and those types of things? Has that gone away at all?

MICHAEL STICH: Yeah. Not with me. I can just speak for myself. I still feel it's
embarrassing what happened. I was about to fly home tomorrow. I was about to pull out
yesterday and say, "That's it." I felt the second thing that happened, they
seeded me first, then they changed and seeded Mantilla, didn't have the -- didn't call me
and say, "We changed it again." They did it without notifying anybody. I felt
it's so disrespectful to anybody on this tournament, playing in this tournament, that I
felt I should have gone home. There are so many reasons for playing, especially spectators
and the kids who come out here and want to enjoy watching tennis, that I decided to stay.

Q. So what do you think the lingering effects might be after these two weeks are up?

MICHAEL STICH: You know, I don't know. I don't know if anything is going to change. I
feel either we should have done a little bit more, maybe just cancel out the Monday or
something like this, not show up today, start the tournament tomorrow to get a stronger
message through, or otherwise not to complain too much. The rules allow the US Open to do
what they did, basically, no matter if they did it before or not. But they have the right
to do it. The way they did it is what we have to complain about; the way they did the draw
and how they put the seeds into the draw, that's something we have to complain about. You
know, I feel we made it a little bit too easy for the USTA. They didn't really got hurt as
much as I think they should have.

Q. What do you think they should have done, a boycott as in '73?

MICHAEL STICH: Yeah. Nikki Pilic is my Davis Cup captain, he knows all about it; told
me how to do it. As I said, I don't think we should have boycotted the tournament, there's
so many reasons; especially spectators, linesmen, they have nothing to do with it. It's
basically a couple of people who make a decision for everybody. I felt like maybe we
should have boycotted Monday, start playing on Tuesday, 2 o'clock on Monday, make them
feel that we feel very strong about it.

Q. They actually told you that you were seeded at that 16th spot and then they went
back off?

MICHAEL STICH: Actually, there was somebody from the ATP told me I was seeded.
Basically, the decision was made, and I think then Ken Farrar came in and said, "You
guys are going to make another mistake because you have to take the next highest ranked
player, which was Mantilla." They didn't officially bring it up, but it was like five
minutes before it came out. Obviously they must have known that everybody knows about it.
They changed it again, but they didn't inform me. It's not like I'm upset that Mantilla
got seeded, I think he deserves to be seeded, as everybody else who is in the top 16
deserves to be seeded. But just, you know, as I said, I think it's disrespectful to me.
For example, that nobody from the ATP or the USTA had the courage to call.

Q. This more emphatic gesture that you're suggesting, did you suggest it to the ATP?

MICHAEL STICH: I did. 

Q. Was it rejected?

MICHAEL STICH: No, basically not. Basically, it was like, you know, to call off the
whole Monday was rejected. They said, "Listen, there are so many reasons to
play." It might have ended up in a lawsuit from the USTA towards the ATP. That's not
what we want for tennis either. They made a suggestion that we might go to every match 20
minutes, a half hour late, wait a little longer. I'm waiting, nothing happened. Nobody
asked me today, so...

Q. Will this go away, this whole stink, or will this go throughout the entire two
weeks? You think when we look back at this tournament, is that how people will think of
this tournament?

MICHAEL STICH: Depends a lot on you as well. The more you ask, the more the talk is
going to be about it. The less you ask, the less people will talk about it. I think that's
what we should do. We should try to forget about it. It happened, we made our point or
not, and that's it. I mean, the tournament is on its way, the first day, we should all
concentrate on tennis.

Q. When you were told you were seeded, were you aware that that was incorrect under the
regulations?

MICHAEL STICH: No, no. You know, as I said, I was surprised I was seeded. I don't think
I deserved to be seeded at this tournament. I mean, I played eight tournaments throughout
this year, one match on hardcourt. The reasons why the USTA made those different seedings,
there are a couple of players where it doesn't make sense, the seeding they got. Let's
take Boris as an example. Unfortunately he's not here. He was bumped up one spot, didn't
play one match on hardcourt this year. Yevgeny won the French Open, was bumped from four
to seven, no matter if it's a different surface or not. I still have the feeling
everything is done here for the American players.

Q. Oh, you have that feeling?

MICHAEL STICH: Yeah, sure.

Q. Apologetic.

MICHAEL STICH: No. Probably this thing would happen, let's say, if they were thinking
about it at the French as well. I'm not blaming anybody for the fact that they do it. For
me, the whole thing started last year when they started this Sampras-Agassi rivalry. They
played great tennis, best players last year, deserved to have a lot of talk about them.
They forgot about all the other players. They didn't even talk about anybody. For me, that
was like, as well, not showing -- also at this tournament when I played Andre in '94 here,
everything was just, like, set up around him. He played great tennis, no doubt about it.
He still should respect the other players for what they do and what they try to achieve,
why they're coming out here. It's our job. We try to do as good as we can. We have to
follow so many rules in our job by the ATP, from the ITF. The least thing we can expect is
to be respected for what we do.

Q. Can you explain to us what you mean, like in '94, that they showed disrespect to you
or did not spotlight you in any way? Give me an example.

MICHAEL STICH: I didn't say they didn't respect me in '94. Everything that happened
here was, you know, around Andre Agassi. Everything was just made for him like he played
his matches when he was supposed to play, always got the grand stands. I'm happy about
that, because he did a lot for tennis in '94. He was the glamorous player in that year.
What he did coming back from that injury, ranked 30, then coming up to No. 1 is
incredible. No complaints towards him at all. He deserved that. Still, you can do that and
still respect the other players instead of trying to treat the other players the way you
always do. Sometimes things happen where you just, you know, treat other players better
because they win a lot of tournaments or whatever. But that doesn't mean you have to treat
the other players less good. You can still treat them the same way and still treat the
other players better. Unfortunately, it always happens that you treat the better players
better at that time and treat the other players not as good as you used to. That's very
weird to me. I know there is a difference between the Top 10 players and the rest, let's
say. I experienced that. Sometimes it's great for me as well. I wouldn't complain. I think
that's what I felt about this whole situation here, that it's about the tennis, it's about
the game, it's about how to bring it out to the people, not about how to make money and
how to get television ratings or stuff like that. I don't know if that's the reason for
the USTA or not. A lot of suspicion and thoughts about that.

Q. How do you feel about Andre not being with you guys yesterday? I mean, he sort of
stayed away, didn't answer any questions about it.

MICHAEL STICH: You know, Andre is Andre.

Q. I arrived a few minutes late. You may have answered this. On a purely tennis basis,
do you feel that there was -- if they'd done it properly, proceeded in the right way,
there was a legitimate tennis reason for raising Andre's seeding from -- to make it higher
than 8?

MICHAEL STICH: I don't think so.

Q. You don't think so?

MICHAEL STICH: No. Looking at this year, you know, I think Andre didn't play great
tennis at all. He played good at the Olympics. He won the Olympics, played great tennis
there. Then he won, what was it, Cincinnati, I think. That was about what he did so far
this year. There's a reason for the fact that he dropped to No. 8. It's not because he
wears the wrong shoes or something like that, it's because he didn't play as great as he
did the years before. For that reason, he should be seeded 8, not 2. He should be seeded
what his tennis -- regarding the way he plays tennis right now.

Q. When you talk about treatment, what treatment, other than court assignments, are you
talking about?

MICHAEL STICH: That's too much to get into that. It's court assignments, maybe. We get
the better practice courts, stuff like that. I'm not complaining. Mostly at the
tournaments now, they really treat all players really well. They try to accommodate
everybody as good as they can. I'm not one to say they treat the other players bad or not.

Q. What about this one? If you're talking about how you're treated, Agassi is treated
differently?

MICHAEL STICH: I didn't say that Agassi is treated differently this year. I say he was
treated differently in '94 when I played him here. Everything was set up for him. That's
fine. It's an American tournament, he's an American. That's the way it should be. Still,
you can still treat all the other players normal and don't give them the feeling they are
just like the side effect on the tennis tournament, they're just there, just needed to
play matches. They are there because they do what they do, and that's their job, and they
take big pride in that. I take a great pride in what I do. I'm very happy with what I do.

Q. Can you give us an opinion on today's match?

MICHAEL STICH: I said before, it was very hard -- difficult for me to play as well. He
played good. I didn't feel he had a real strategy going out there, how to play against me.
It was his first Grand Slam match, obviously. I think the more matches he plays on Grand
Slams, the more he's going to learn. He seems to be very talented. Still, it's a long way
to go.

Q. Are you physically a hundred percent now, Michael?

MICHAEL STICH: No. My shoulder is still bothering me. For that fact, I didn't practice
at all coming to the US Open. I played, like, three days before I flew over. I started
practicing at home. I wouldn't say I'm in great condition, but with me, that doesn't
matter, probably.

Q. How does it affect the pace of your service?

MICHAEL STICH: It doesn't really affect the pace. It affects the fact that I'm serving
probably 40 percent first serves, just not as loose as I would like it to be. If I'm
starting to get tight, what happens in a situation like in the fourth set where you're
close to finishing a match, it just gets really tight. I'm getting down on my serve,
double-faulting a lot. I can still serve 130 sometimes, but it's not as often as I would
like.

Q. When did that start?

MICHAEL STICH: After Paris.

Q. Just after Paris?

MICHAEL STICH: Yes.

Q. Have you spoken to Boris at all?

MICHAEL STICH: No.

Q. After that second set and parts of that fourth set, did it creep into your mind at
all that here we go again with these upsets that have been seen all summer long?

MICHAEL STICH: No, I didn't think about that at all. I didn't know what would happen in
the fourth set. I was confident that I might still get that break and come back in the
fourth set. I didn't think about that at all. I just wanted to try to win this match, get
out of the sun.

Q. Were you concerned about going into a fifth set?

MICHAEL STICH: No, no concerned. I know it could have happened, but I was confident
enough to get that break to get back into the fourth set and try to win in four.

Q. You said you were about ready to fly home. Can you give us an idea, were there a lot
of other players that felt your way, that were ready to leave?

MICHAEL STICH: Yeah. I think there were a couple of players. I don't know exactly the
names. I know the Spanish players were very unhappy with the fact that Mantilla was not
seeded in the first place. I think there were a couple of others. It's good because, you
know, I talked to a couple of guys about it. They have different opinions and different
reasons for going or not going. As I said, there were more reasons for not going than for
leaving this tournament. I think that's why most of the players decided to leave.

Q. No one from the USTA told you you were going to be seeded 16th, is that correct?

MICHAEL STICH: That's correct.

Q. Only an ATP person thought you would be?

MICHAEL STICH: No. He heard that I would be because a decision was made and it was
talked about in the referee's office. One of the ATP Tour managers heard that I was going
to be seeded, that they made the change. Just about before they officially brought it out,
they then changed it again.

Q. Michael, do you find anything hypocritical in the fact that the players have so
emphatically supported their ranking system here this week? Wasn't many months ago that
players were dissing Thomas Muster as not a No. 1, even though he was ranked No. 1 at the
time, because 99 percent of his results were on clay?

MICHAEL STICH: Yeah. I mean, I know who those players were who were complain about him
being No. 2 or No. 1. I can say I have the highest respect for what Thomas did, what he
achieved. He showed that he can play on hardcourt, that he can play indoors, that he
deserves his No. 2 ranking, whereas I feel probably the system, the ranking is working
now, is not the perfect system. We've tried to figure that out for the last ten years, to
find a perfect system, and we still haven't got it. You know, I think your ranking is what
it shows, what you have achieved throughout the year. That's what it should be. It doesn't
matter basically if you play only on clay or hardcourt. The Americans hardly go to the
claycourt season. I mean, they play three tournaments on clay, I guess. That's about it.
You could argue about that, why should you be ranked No. 1 if you play only two or three
tournaments on clay? That's the way the Tour is and how everybody plays. Everybody has its
strengths and weaknesses. Can you choose? Unfortunately we are unable to choose the
surface we like to play on the best. I think the ranks is fair. It just represents what
happens throughout 12 months. Especially on Thomas, I think he deserved to be No. 1.

Q. Michael, can you tell me the story about Sven Groenveld and you?

MICHAEL STICH: No, I don't want to talk about that.

Q. Is it a special thing to play against a young German?

MICHAEL STICH: It's difficult for me, sure, yeah. He's a very young, upcoming player.
For me, somebody who has been around quite a long time, to play somebody from your own
country, is not easy. If I lose, everybody is pointing at me. If I win, it's normal that I
win. For him it's a little bit easier situation.

Q. And is that the reason often the match between the two of you are not very good?

MICHAEL STICH: No, not at all. His first match at a Grand Slam, so he doesn't have
anything to lose. He wants to do as good as he can. If he beats me, a great result for
him. Anything else is acceptable for him. It's not like he goes home saying, "I
should have won." He has a lot to learn, he will.

Q. Did you know him before?

MICHAEL STICH: Yeah, I know him for a long time. Know his father for a long time.

Q. A year ago Borris Becker was complaining about Nike having an influence over when
Andre Agassi's matches would be scheduled and so forth, so on, which I'm sure you're aware
of. Do you also feel Nike's power and financial influence at other tournaments like this
one?

MICHAEL STICH: No, I don't think so. I think also two years ago, I don't think that
Nike ever took a real influence on the scheduling. As well, Boris and I know, a lot of top
players have the possibility to go to the tournament director and say, "I'd rather
like to play at night than day." Boris did that throughout the years, a lot of the
other players. Ivan did that, John did that. That's probably what Andre did. Playing here,
he has all the options to do that because it's his home tournament, as Pete probably. I
don't think that Nike ever, ever really got involved and started changing or making
playing schedules.

Q. When you played Haas today, had you been practicing with this young man at certain
stages?

MICHAEL STICH: No.

Q. Never hit with him?

MICHAEL STICH: No.

Q. When you watched him for four sets, do you see in him more talent than you would see
in yourself at the same age?

MICHAEL STICH: That's a tough one. 

Q. You developed late.

MICHAEL STICH: I couldn't say. He has a completely different upbringing than I have. He
lived at Bollettieri's for six years. The only thing he did was practice today to come as
far as he did now. Maybe he's burned out in two years. I hope not, he's talented. But as I
said, a lot of work to be done with his game. He's aware of it, everybody is aware of it.

Q. You were aware of his reputation prior, as a teenager, before you played him?

MICHAEL STICH: I knew his father for 15 years, knew the family for a long, long time.
His father was a trainer in my hometown. For that reason, I know the family pretty well.

Q. The shoulder is just a strain?

MICHAEL STICH: No, it's inflammation.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT