WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 2ND ROUND POOL E
March 11, 2017
Hiroki Kokubo
Seiji Kobayashi
Ryosuke Kikuchi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So tomorrow, the second round is finally beginning.  How was workout session for today?
HIROKI KOKUBO: I don't know what to say, but the practice was good.
Q. Your record is 3-0 for the first time ever for Team Japan to break through the first round.  For you how important is the first game of the second round of the tournament?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes, tomorrow is important.  So I have nothing but concern for tomorrow's game.
Q. Some of the active Major League Baseball players is on the roster.  What kind of impression do you have for the Team Netherlands?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Like you said, yes, the infield and outfield are gorgeous, and we were beaten by -- we had a ^ extra-inning game last year, and not only the top of the lineup, but the bottom of the lineup, they swing very hard.  And also, the starting pitcher, we don't know yet for sure who's going to pitch.  Maybe Van Den Hurk.  If he's the starter, the key for us is to get him on the mound early in the game.  That's the key, if he starts.
Q. What's your game plan for tomorrow's game to beat Netherlands?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Of course, our starting pitcher has to make a gain.  If we let them score first, it's going to be a tough game, so I'm hoping my starting pitcher will start well.  And within three hours we will know who is going to start.  So after we hear the starting pitcher, I'll think about the lineups.
Q. For tomorrow, if you can mention the starting pitcher for Team Japan?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Ishikawa.
Q. Ishikawa pitched good for the first game of the first tournament.  How do you expect him to do for tomorrow's game?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes.  The atmosphere of the opening game is very rare, unique.  And he had a lot of pressure during that game, but he pitched great.  So I want him to be the same performance that he did at the last game.
Q. From tomorrow we're going to have the second round game start.  How do you feel about it?  What are your emotions?
SEIJI KOBAYASHI: Yes.  The condition of the team is very nice.  And my job is I'm trying to be -- trying to recognize what I'm supposed to do for the team.
RYOSUKE KIKUCHI: Like Kobayashi said, the atmosphere of the team is very nice.  So me personally, I want me to be myself, and I want to have fun playing baseball.
Q. We have a bunch of different stats.  What kind of impression do you have for the Netherlands?  They have a lot of Major League active players on the roster.
SEIJI KOBAYASHI: Well, they swing.  They have a very good lineup.  I know they have some good Major League players, so I want every single player hitters to get out.  And I want to get the team to stick together and try to get a win.
RYOSUKE KIKUCHI: Yes, Seiji just mentioned what I was trying to say, but what I can do for the defense, I can contribute for my team from my defense.
Q. Maybe one single play affect for the big result, and you guys are three games for the final round.  What's in your mind right now?
SEIJI KOBAYASHI: Yes.  Well, we are aiming nothing but the world champion.  So we will have a three-game series, but we want to play one game by one game to win.
RYOSUKE KIKUCHI: Yes.  Kobayashi already mentioned.  So the second player to answer is a very tough position, but all I can say is I want to win, no matter what I do.
Q. You just mentioned that you decide the lineup, who's going to start for the starting lineup.  But if Van Den Hurk will start for them for tomorrow, what kind of image do you have?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes.  We will check a bunch of the stats, but Van Den Hurk pitch for Pacific League.  (Indiscernible) is from another league, central league, so stats and data is not everything.  So I'm trying to think about what's the best lineup for us for tonight.
Q. Question for Mr. Kokubo.  Today is an important day for Japan, 3/11.  We had a national disaster six years ago.  How important for you to play this memorable day?  Do you have any comment as the national team manager?
HIROKI KOKUBO: Yes.  We had that six years ago.  It's been six years since we had a national disaster, and I know that some of the cities still have a problem and it's not fixed yet.  And we are at the middle of the WBC tournament.  Today is a day off for us.  So we couldn't play for them today, but for tomorrow's game, yes, for sure I want all of my players to have that emotion for them, for the head coach and I will mention to the coaches that we should be thankful that we can play baseball here in Tokyo.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT