TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2020
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're happy to be joined by the winner of the 2019 Travelers Championship, Chez Reavie. Chez, if we could just get an opening comment on your return to TPC River Highlands.   
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, it's great to be back. Obviously I have good memories here. The people are great here. It's a little strange wearing a mask everywhere inside, but it is what it is, and I think we're all embracing it.   
THE MODERATOR: What did that win mean for you in terms of your career coming 11 years after your first win on the PGA TOUR? What did that mean to you?   
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, you know, it was everything. I had been slowly building my foundation over the years and had a couple chances to win but wasn't able to pull it off, and just kept working hard, and fortunately last year was the year I broke through and got another win.   
THE MODERATOR: You're joined in your feature grouping this week by fellow Arizona State Sun Devil Jon Rahm as well as FedExCup leader Webb Simpson. How does it feel to be a part of one of those groups this week?   
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, you know, it's awesome. Jon and I are good friends. We play a lot of golf back home in Arizona, so it'll be fun to go out and play with him.   
 Q.  You must be happy that this tournament is staying at the same time of year, like it didn't move, and it's the first one obviously since coming back. How much of a difference will that make?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, you know, I don't know how much of a difference that makes. I guess the weather is supposed to be good. We have a chance of rain, I think, tomorrow, but yeah, you know, it's kind of -- the first week back to normalcy I guess for us a little bit. We still have to wear masks and take all the proper precautions, but yeah, it is nice to come back here and see everybody I saw last year and left on such a good note.   
 Q.  Obviously this place is always going to have a special place in your heart, and any course you shoot a 63 on, there's going to be good memories there. What is it about the course and this tournament that just makes it so appealing on the schedule?  
CHEZ REAVIE: You know, I think it's a great week. It's a great golf course. You've got some really tough holes and then you've got some scoring holes. If you get the ball in play off the tee, there are a lot of holes you can make birdies on, and then there's a few tough holes you're just trying to play smart and make some pars. It's a great golf course. You've got to shape it both ways. If you hit the ball off line it can punish you, so it's just a lot of fun to play.   
 Q.  I want to talk about maybe the most grueling shot on the course, which is the 15-and-a-half hole and trying to hit that umbrella. Will you take a crack at that this year?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Oh, yeah, absolutely. I take a crack every year. I haven't hit it on the umbrella yet. I've come close a couple times, so hopefully this will be my year for that.   
THE MODERATOR: We appreciate the time, Chez, and best of luck in your title defense.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT