SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 11, 2019
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Quite the hat trick today on three hole-out eagles.  Have you ever seen that before?  
CHEZ REAVIE: No, no, haven't.  I was trying to think back to any round I even had more than one hole-out and I couldn't think of any.   
 Q.  So 54, gap, and 9; those were the three clubs you used?  
CHEZ REAVIE: They were the three clubs, yeah.   
 Q.  Which one did you like the best going into the round?  I mean, you like them all now the same.  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, you know, it was strange.  Started out well.  Hit a good sand wedge on 10 and just happened to go in.   
Then the gap wedge is new for me this year.  I haven't played with a gap wedge in the past, so it was nice hole-out with that one.   
 Q.  Yeah.  And you almost holed out on No. 9, too.  Chance for another one.  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, that would've been fun.  I was just trying to get it as close as I could and make a birdie.  If it would've went in it would've been special.   
 Q.  Overall 10-under par through two rounds of golf.  Got to love your position here for the weekend.  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, yeah, playing sold.  I would like to hit a few more fairways tomorrow.  I didn't hit as many fairways today as I normally do, so hopefully I can hit some fairways on the weekend and make some more eagles.   
 Q.  What were the clubs?  
CHEZ REAVIE: It was a sand wedge on 10; 9-iron on 16, and gap wedge on 6.   
 Q.  How many different balls?  Did you change balls at some point?  
CHEZ REAVIE: You know, I didn't.  I only used two balls all day.  I made a bogey on No. 1, my 10th hole, and got rid of that ball and put a new ball in play after that one.   
 Q.  And then after 4 probably.  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah.  Definitely had a new ball, new number.   
 Q.  I don't know if holing out for two is a big deal for you, but does it ever get into your mind when you do it twice and then a third time?  
CHEZ REAVIE: You know, I was thinking about that, too.  Honestly, I didn't think about it at all until after the third one went in.  I got it in the fairway on 8 and hit a pitching wedge; it was on a good line, and that was the only time it crossed my mind before the ball went in the hole.  Wow, could we make another one?   
Yeah, before the other two I just hit the shot I was trying to see and it was going at the hole.  Never expected it to go in.  It's always a surprise when I it disappears.   
 Q.  When you shot the 61 year you I had an ace on 17.  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah.   
 Q.  Something about the course?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, apparently, yeah.  I need to go buy a lottery ticket today I think.   
 Q.  Didn't you hole-out when you won at Canada as well?  
CHEZ REAVIE: I holed a wedge, yeah, on a par-5 for an eagle there on, what was it, 10, 11, 12 -- on 13, there, yeah.   
 Q.  No lottery here in Hawaii, Chez.  
CHEZ REAVIE: Oh.  Fly to California tonight and fly back tomorrow.   
 Q.  Is this going to be one of those deals where you're not going to appreciate how unusual is it for like another month?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, probably.  I mean, obviously it's unusual, but I'm still whatever, three, four, five back of Kuch, wherever he is at right now.   
We are just trying to make as many as we can.   
 Q.  Make as many what?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Birdies, eagles, anything red; hole in ones.   
 Q.  After the third what was the comment from to the folks in the group?  
CHEZ REAVIE: They all took their hat off and threw it at me.  It was a hat trick is what they did.  (Laughter.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT