WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2018
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Not the result that you wanted, but this is your second runner-up finish in your career.  It puts you right back in the mix.  What positives can you take from this?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I hit the ball really well all week.  Made a lot of putts and unfortunately made a bogey on the playoff hole, but I didn't make many bogeys this week.
Q. That putt to force the playoff, 21 feet.  Talk to me about where that ranks under pressure shots that you have actually been able to get to go in the hole?
CHEZ REAVIE: It's right up there with the putt I made to win in Canada.  It was a lot of fun.  Fortunately I walked up and I really got a good read off it right away and really felt comfortable.
Q. I know that you thought that one putt was going to go in.  It doesn't drop, you're playing next week, you have a quick turn around.  How can you take all of that and apply it to next week?
CHEZ REAVIE: It's great.  Hitting the ball where I'm looking and hitting it, hitting a lot of great putts and I'm really excited with what's coming.
Q. I hated the finish, but I loved the way you finished regulation.  That was some great play down the stretch.
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, thanks.  I played well all day.  I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in early.  Just kind of kept plugging along and made two birdies late and forced a playoff.
Q. I know it's a tournament you want to win, but you have to be pleased with the way you've played, not only this week but all season long.  You're playing great golf.
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I've been playing solid seems every week and I just need more experiences like this and sooner or later I'll hold the trophy.
Q. We'll start with the highlight, the putt you made on your 72nd hole just to get in the playoff.  What was going through your mind at that point?
CHEZ REAVIE: It was great.  I knew I had to make it and I, fortunately when I walked up and kind of started reading it, I really felt comfortable with my read and was able to make it.
Q. How about fact that you're playing at this course.  This is your home course, you have all these fans cheering for you, you were the standard bearer in this tournament growing up, how special was this experience?
CHEZ REAVIE: Oh, it's fantastic.  To finally contend and have a chance to win this tournament and work my way up the FedExCup, it's really exciting.
Q. Being able to take Gary Woodland to a playoff, what was the final emotions like when you made that last putt?
CHEZ REAVIE: I was just excited that I still had a chance to win the tournament.  Unfortunately I made bogey on the playoff hole, but I didn't make many bogeys this week and really played well.
Q. How do you take this experience and propel it forward for the good?
CHEZ REAVIE: Just keep plugging along and keep trying to pick away at that FedExCup list and hopefully by the end of the season I'll be up towards the top.
Q. Fantastic finish once again.  You just knew this tournament was going to go to a playoff.  Talk about being a part of it.
CHEZ REAVIE: I was excited to make that putt on the 72nd hole and still have a chance to win and unfortunately it didn't go my way this week, but who knows maybe next week will be my week.
Q. What goes through your mind when you sink a 21-footer to send it to a playoff?
CHEZ REAVIE: Oh, just pure adrenaline.  And then it was like, okay, I got to calm down, I still got to go play some more golf, it's not over yet.  So it was kind of a mix of emotions, but I was excited to still have a chance to play.
Q. How was the crowd support out here just over the weekend?
CHEZ REAVIE: They were great.  They're so fun and being a hometown guy, everyone's rooting me on.  It's really a lot of fun.
Q. Does it mean more because you're a Sun Devil?
CHEZ REAVIE: Absolutely.  Yeah, I grew up here in Mesa, I carried the sign board here growing up when I was in high school and junior high and to have a chance to win the tournament this week was a lot of fun.
Q. When you were carrying the sign board as a kid, did you ever imagine you would be here in a playoff with a chance to win this thing?
CHEZ REAVIE: That was the dream, man.  I've been living it since then.
Q. Did you have any temptation to go with a driver off 17?
CHEZ REAVIE: Off 17, I did hit driver off 17.  In the playoff or on 18 both times I hit 3-wood.  It just fits better for me to hit a 3-wood and have a pitching wedge at it.
Q. And there was no temptation to try to just give a little extra, a little bit extra?
CHEZ REAVIE: No.  No.  Fortunately I've been playing out here a lot.  I kind of now how hard I had to hit it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT