WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2018
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Couple of birdies there for a 67 and 13-under par.  Tell us how much it would mean to you as an Arizona native if you could pull this one off.
CHEZ REAVIE: It would be everything.  To win tournaments out here is great, but to win one that you grew up going to would be very special.
Q. You had 24 putts today, obviously a strength of your game.  Do you have a lot of local knowledge here since the redesign?
CHEZ REAVIE: Actually not a whole lot.  I play here occasionally but not too often, they're very busy most of the time.  But I snuck out last week when I was here when I had a week off and got some work in.
Q. What's your game plan going to be for tomorrow?  Obviously it's going to be a bit of a shoot-out.
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, just more of the same.  Trying to hit as many fairways as possible to give myself some good clubs in and get aggressive when I have good numbers and play safe when I don't and try and makes a many birdies as I can.
Q. You said in your last few starts you felt like you were striking the ball well but not making putts, but what's connecting this week?
CHEZ REAVIE: I'm making putts.  I'm playing the course smart.  I'm getting aggressive when I can and I've been fortunate to make some birdies and make some putts.
Q. Yesterday you shot your best round here, your career low on this course, a 65.  What carried over from yesterday to today?
CHEZ REAVIE: I just made a few putts and when I got it out of position off the tee I played for the most part -- except for on 11, I made a mistake there.  But I actually hit the ball better yesterday than I did today but I just didn't make too many big mistakes.
Q. Growing up in this tournament you were the standard bearer for years, you're a local guy, what does it mean for you to be in contention going into tomorrow?
CHEZ REAVIE: Oh, it's fantastic.  This is the only tournament I really knew about besides the Majors and so for me this is a fifth Major.  So it would be very special to win here.
Q. What can you say?  How does it feel to be a Sun Devil here in your backyard to be in contention, gallery in your favor.  It's got to be a great feeling.
CHEZ REAVIE: Oh, it's fantastic.  Growing up out here it's always been very special to come out and to have the support and everyone rooting me on is great.
Q. What was this day like for you?  What worked so well?  You used to be a standard bearer out here in your younger day, you went to Arizona State from 2000 to 2004.  Now to be in contention and doing what you're doing.  Talk about that.
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, it was a good round, I made a few mistakes but when I did get it out of position off the tee I kind of plotted my way around and gave myself the best chance I could to make par.  Then when I was in a good position on the tee or from the fairway I was aggressive with my irons and made some birdies.
Q. How cool is it that there are three Sun Devils, different generations of Sun Devils in contention for this title?
CHEZ REAVIE: Oh, it's perfect.  It's exactly what it should be this week.  It's been special for all of us and we're all playing well so it will be fun tomorrow.
Q. It looks like you and Jon might be paired together tomorrow.  How well do you know him?
CHEZ REAVIE: Who?
Q. Jon Rahm.
CHEZ REAVIE: I know Jon very well.  We're good friends.  I play up at Whisper Rock with him out here, so we'll have fun tomorrow.
Q. What do you think about those guys who sit in the front corner of 16 grand stands and kind of heckle everybody?
CHEZ REAVIE: Just off to the left?  It's fine.  It's fun.  It's a fun atmosphere and you would expect nothing less.  If I wasn't golfing I would probably be in the stands with them.
Q. Have they ever said anything to you that made you chuckle or made you mad or anything like that?
CHEZ REAVIE: Not mad, a lot of things have made me chuckle though, that's for sure.
Q. How many times did you do the standard bearer thing out here?
CHEZ REAVIE: From when I was in elementary school all the way up into the beginning of high school, really.  I did it for a long time.
Q. Who is group in particular do you remember being with?
CHEZ REAVIE: Calcavecchia, I remember him shooting 8- or 9-under one day, just made tons of birdies.  Loren Roberts one year.  Tom Lehman.  A lot of good memories.  Payne Stewart one year, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT