TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2019
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice round. You got yourself back in this tournament a little bit. What are your thoughts on the day?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, you know honestly anybody in the field's in the golf tournament here on this golf course. It's so tough. I mean, if you hit the ball in the rough, it doesn't matter if it's a short hole, you're just trying to make par. You're trying to figure out how to make par. So first you have to hit fairways and then you have to take advantage and hit greens. If you start missing greens from the fairways, you're really giving shots back to the field.   
 Q.  What's the countdown now on aces?  
CHEZ REAVIE: That's 21 for me.   
 Q.  How many in competition -- how many --  
CHEZ REAVIE: That's my fifth one on Tour. Yeah. I had one at Torrey, I had one at Congressional, I had one at Sony Open, and I have that one.   
 Q.  Tell us how it felt when it happened here.  
CHEZ REAVIE: It was just awesome. Honestly, I was hitting a 3 iron in the middle of the green. I kind of just overdrew it a little bit. Got a fortunate bounce, kicked a little right, and got lucky and it went in the hole.   
 Q.  That's the first time there's been an ace on that hole in a TOUR Championship. It's not exactly what you would consider an ace hole, is it?  
CHEZ REAVIE: No, not at all. Every person on that tee box is looking in the middle of the green and trying to give yourself some sort of uphill putt. So to make it, you're gaining two shots on the field at least.   
 Q.  21, is there ever a number where it's like, eh?  
CHEZ REAVIE: No. I'm just as excited on that one as any one ever. It's almost shock. It goes in, and I drop the club, and I look at Louis and don't know what to do because you're just in shock. It's exciting to hear everyone scream and have a good time.   
 Q.  How do you explain 21? That's like a large number.  
CHEZ REAVIE: I don't know. Just aim it at the hole and get lucky a few times, I guess. I have no idea. I can't really explain it. That's why it's so fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT