THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2017
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just talk a little bit about your round today; obviously pretty tough conditions out there this afternoon, but you brought it back on the back nine.  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, so today was just fairways and greens.  With the wind you had to try and favor the wind, and like on 18 it was a little hurt off the tee and I still hit 3-wood and it was a little further back than I normally would have liked but with the wind direction I knew I could hit it up the right and not hit it through the fairway.   
 Q.  You and Adam are the only two guys that are 2-under or better in the afternoon round.  Is it really that much tougher playing in the afternoon?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, it's just tricky because the wind, it's not blowing really hard, but it's blowing hard enough, and then it keeps moving just a little bit.  It'll go from down a quarter to just off the left and into off the left.  You have to be real patient and wait for your timing and hit when the wind is doing what you want.   
 Q.  How looking forward are you to tomorrow morning?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, it's going to be great.  The weather is supposed to be great all week, so it's going to be nice to get a little dinner and a quick nap, and then out early in the morning.   
 Q.  What's been your experience here at THE PLAYERS?  
CHEZ REAVIE: I love the golf course.  I haven't particularly played great here, but it's always been a course I've liked, and it's really suited my eye, so hopefully we'll turn it around.   
 Q.  Is it suited for your game?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, absolutely.  Around here you've got to be in the fairways to give yourself chances to be aggressive, and then you have to hit greens.  Once you start missing greens it's really easy to make bogeys out here.  If you do miss a green you've got to miss it on the proper side and hit as many as you can.   
 Q.  How did you play 12?  
CHEZ REAVIE: I laid it up today.  I'm going to lay it up all week there.  It's too penal up the left.  If you're in the middle of the green, it's going to kick down into the lake, and so it's just too much risk for me.  So I'm going to lay it up every day and try and wedge it close.   
 Q.  Is there any hole that gave you the confidence that, hey, this is going to be a good day for me?  
CHEZ REAVIE: I was just kind of steady-Eddie today.  Like I said, I hit a lot of fairways, gave myself some looks, hit a couple good shots that didn't turn out so great.  16 I hit probably the best second shot I've hit all year out of the pine needles, and it ran just through the fairway or just through the green into the water, was able to save par and didn't get too upset and made two birdies coming in.   
 Q.  Do like your position?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, yeah, it's just so early, you're just trying to keep yourself, maintain your pace and keep yourself ready for pretty much Sunday on the back nine to give yourself a chance to win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT