SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2017
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What a wonderful Sunday round of golf for you, 9 under, 61.  12 under with a lot of holes to play, how much were you thinking about getting it to 59 or maybe even better?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, you know, that was the goal.  I birdied 3 and 4, or 2 and 3, actually, to get it to 9 and then I was like, okay, here we go, we've got a shot at this.
I hit some good shots.  Hit a couple bad shots.  Had a great up-and-down on 4 to keep me going.  But, yeah, it was just a great day.
Q. Talk about the hole-in-one at 17.  Give us the club and your thoughts on when you watched that ball go in the air.
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, so it was a good number.  The wind was off to the left.  I think it was 189 yards or something.  I had to smash a 6-iron.  I hit it great.  Obviously, it's a surprise when it disappears.  But yeah, I hit a great shot.
Q. 28, is that your best nine ever?
CHEZ REAVIE: I was actually thinking about it going down 1.  I was like, what's par back there.  Wow, I just shot 28.  So that's probably my low on nine holes for sure.
Q. This round, you climb up the leaderboard right now tied for 5th.  I don't know where it will end up by the end of the day, but certainly that's the most important thing of what happened today.  You get some FedExCup points and you get a lot of cash.
CHEZ REAVIE: Absolutely.  I played solid.  I played solid all week.  I just kind of struggled with the putter a little bit yesterday and the day before.  But today I didn't struggle with the putter.  I putted great today.  There's no telling.  I was just glad to see some putts go in.
Q. Did 58 cross your mind at all?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, absolutely.  I was trying to get it to 20 under, to be honest with you.  When I got it to 16 through 11 holes or whatever, I was trying to shot as low as I could.  Obviously it's tough.  It's tricky with some of those pin locations.  The greens are tough to read.  But, yeah, I was making putts.  I was trying to give myself as many looks as I could.
Q. It seems 59 is the new 58, and 58 is the new --
CHEZ REAVIE: I haven't shot 58 yet, so 59 is 59 for me.  But I mean you see guys do it and you know it's possible.  Once you start making putts and you get some looks, it's definitely exciting.
Q. Do you think it's more achievable from what you've seen on Thursday?
CHEZ REAVIE: Absolutely, absolutely, yeah.  When I made those two birdies on 2 and 3, I was like, okay, let's give ourselves some looks.  I kind of figured I would knock it on 9 in two and hit it in the bunker and couldn't do that.  I was definitely starting to count my chickens there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT