SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
November 4, 2016
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did the turnaround happen?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Well, yesterday, even though I scored poorly, I just made some short game mistakes.  I didn't really hit it that bad.  Obviously the biggest challenge for me was just to mentally be in a position to even have a chance of playing well today.  Fortunately I was.  I was positive and just said I was going to go try and shoot as low as I can and see what happens.  I figured it was going to take at least eight, so I was able to do that.   
 Q.  The nice thing you know about this course, there's so many birdies there's a chance for redemption?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Exactly.  Yesterday I played real poorly, and of course the first thing I see when I walk up here is Pampling's scoreboard because he was at the same time as me off the other side, so I was like, all right -- at first it hurt a little bit, but then I was like, okay, it's possible, I can go make some birdies tomorrow.   
 Q.  After 6 were you thinking potential 59?  
CHEZ REAVIE: I mean, not really.  I was just cruising.  I knew then I had a chance, but it was still kind of a long shot.  But yeah, you never knew what was going to happen.   
 Q.  Does that get the juices flowing at all when that gets into your brain?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, absolutely, and then the next hole you kind of take one less club because you know you're kind of amped up and I pushed it just a little bit but didn't hit a bad shot.  It's a tough hole, so I was just trying to make sure I was playing tomorrow, as well.   
 Q.  Now that you know you're playing tomorrow, what will be the key to keeping your momentum going from today?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Just to have kind of the same perspective, just to go out there and try and make as many birdies as possible and not worry too much about where you are.  At the end of the day, there's going to be a handful of guys that shoot really low out here every day, even with the greens being tough and the pins being tucked.  Yeah, it's just kind of making sure you're in the right mental state to just give yourself a chance to make birdies, because you can't go out there and force it, you just have to be open to the possibility of it happening.   
 Q.  You know they'll toughen it up like they always do on the weekend.  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, they will, but if you hit good shots, they can only make it so hard.   
 Q.  Sitting there on 18, you know you could potentially hole it, but bearing in mind you don't want to make a mistake, how aggressive were you?  
CHEZ REAVIE: I hit my tee shot a little right, so I had a massive uphill slope, so that kind of made it even harder because then you're prone to pull it, so I had to take a little more club and aim a little right, and I did, and just kind of hit it, whatever, 30 feet a little long and right of it.   
 Q.  You've got to just balance it?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Exactly right, what, am I going to try and hook a 9-iron in there?  Yeah, I still want to have a shot on the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT