SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2016
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Off early on this Thursday morning, bogey-free here in the opening round.  How did this one play out for you, Justin?  
JUSTIN HICKS: Well, I did a great job of putting the ball in the fairway I think off the tee.  Kind of made a little change in my irons and went back to a set I was a little more familiar with, and unfortunately the newer set wasn't working out.  My irons today I hit a lot of really close shots.  I gave myself great opportunities.  Only had a couple of times where I had to make a save, so to speak, so did a good job just putting the job in play.  You would think without the rough being too high that wouldn't necessarily be the biggest of things to do.  If you drive it well, you can get some good looks.  We had some good looks.   
 Q.  Just your third start of 2016.  Major medical.  What are your challenges you face and also securing full privileges once again?  
JUSTIN HICKS: It is a different kind of thing for me, the major medical.  I'm fully exempt on the Web.com Tour.  I feel like when I'm playing the kind of golf I feel I'm capable of playing, I've got the game to be out here competing.  I'm going about the best I can.  Wherever the cards fall at the end of the year, that's fine.   
 Q.  How much confidence can you take from a day like this with just one round?  
JUSTIN HICKS: I don't think I've ever seen anybody hoist a trophy up on Thursday.  We're barely into this tournament.  Lot of golf yet to be played, and I know that there's a lot of birdies going on out there.  You know, that course right now being soft and the wind is not really blowing, there's going to be a lot of guys shoot under par.  So, our work is really just getting started here.  Looking forward to the rest of the week.   
 Q.  Justin, it's almost an early bird gets the worm day.  You got out early and put a really nice number up.  
JUSTIN HICKS: Yeah.  We had -- obviously the greens were pretty flawless this morning.  The whole place is pretty darn good.  They've done a great job here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT