NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 19, 2016
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You started day birdieing three out of your first four holes, and you finish the day birdieing three out of your last four holes; how important is it to get off to a good start?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, especially the first hole, you hit a good tee shot, you've got to get it because the second hole is tough and you have some tough holes coming in.  Yeah, you have to give yourself looks when you get a chance.
Q. You seem like you've just been playing really well this week so far.  What's been the key?
CHEZ REAVIE: My ball-striking's been great all season really but this week I've been making putts, which isn't easy to do out here.  But the ball has been going in, so it's been a lot of fun.
Q. These greens are tough to read and a lot of players are mentioning that.
CHEZ REAVIE: I've had some decent breakers but it's all on a gradual slope, so it's kind of easier to see and just watch the ball go in the hole.
Q. Solid playing, how are you feeling right now?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, feeling great.  A little tired but yeah, feeling well, especially when you birdie the last couple holes, it makes dinner taste good.
Q. Three of the first four and three of the last four, that's always a nice way to start and finish.  Makes it kind of easy, and the middle could have been best part of the round of golf you played, 7 through 11, you played beautifully and couldn't get a birdie?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I had some good looks and hit some good putts.  These greens are just tricky, and I over-read a couple of them and under-read one of them.  But I hit good putts, so I never got discouraged.
Q. Is it drying out just a bit?  It was soggy playing early in the morning on Thursday.
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, the greens were still soft today.  I had 3-iron into 15 and it hit and went only a couple feet.  It's nice when you have longer clubs and you know they are not going to roll too far.
Q. Seems like there was a lot of bumping going on in the afternoon.  Firming up to putt a little truer maybe?
CHEZ REAVIE: Maybe a little bit, I mean, whenever you play late, you're always going to have footprints and you just kind of deal with it.  Definitely they were good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT