TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2019
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  64 from yesterday. Brilliant performance. Very well played. How much fun was it out there?  
CHEZ REAVIE: It was great. I hear you've got to be in the fairways to give yourself chances. I was able to do that today and make some birdies.   
 Q.  Your position heading in, talking a lot about players with a few shots back and ground to make up. Talk about your approach, starting with your approach heading into today's round.  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yesterday I shot 1 over. Didn't feel like I played poorly, just hit a couple in the rough and it played tough. Here, if you play really well, you can make birdies. But if you get it offline a little bit, you can make bogeys. You know it's going to be tough. You just got to strap yourself in and give it a go.   
 Q.  Nice to have an ace on this hole. Show you some of your highlights. This is the first ace at 9 ever in the history of a playoff final at East Lake. Talk us through this one.  
CHEZ REAVIE: Honestly, I was aiming in the middle of the green, and I kind of overdrew it a little bit. You can see me leaning my way in there and hoping it hangs on. It just hung on far enough and it bounced a little right, and I was fortunate enough for it to go in the hole.   
 Q.  Unbelievable. There we go. You've got to get the celebration right in those moments, haven't you?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Absolutely. You're just in shock. You almost don't know what to do.   
 Q.  How many career aces is this?  
CHEZ REAVIE: That's 21.   
 Q.  21? That's just greedy. Seriously impressive. I have to show you this. This one at one point was looking very good.  
CHEZ REAVIE: It looked good in the air. While it was in the air, Louis' caddie was like can he make two in a row? Honestly, I was just happy it carried far enough and I had a good look. Unfortunately, I didn't make it, but happy to have a chance.   
 Q.  Getting in the top 30 is a massive achievement in itself. Exemptions to the U.S. Open, Open Championship, couple of the other Majors, the Masters, of course, for next year. Now that you put yourself in this position, what's the sense of opportunity?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah. Just kind of more of the same on the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT