AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 12, 2016
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Well you started your round off with a bang with an eagle on the third hole.  
CHEZ REAVIE: On the second.  On the 11th hole.  My second hole.   
 Q.  Okay.  Go through that with what happened there.  
CHEZ REAVIE: I hit a good tee shot up the right side of the fairway and had a great number in there.  The green slopes back to front pretty hard, so you want to hit a shot that has a little less spin.  It was a perfect three quarter pitching wedge and it was fortunate enough for it to go in.   
 Q.  How far was it?  
CHEZ REAVIE: I had 120 yards.  With a little breeze.   
 Q.  Go through the rest of the round.  I think you made some pars and bogeys the rest of the way, but you certainly are in contention after two rounds.  
CHEZ REAVIE: I hit the ball well today, I had a lot of close looks and hit some good putts that didn't go it in and 3-putted 18, unfortunately.  But I hung in there and kept giving myself looks and that's all I can do.   
 Q.  It's got to be cliche, but is it hard to go low again after you shot 63 yesterday or is that just kind of a sometimes the putts go in, sometimes they don't, type of day?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Today it was playing tough.  The greens are real firm.  They were really good, but with the wind today, it was tough to really get it close and give your self some really close looks.  So, making birdies today was a little tougher than yesterday, but tomorrow Spyglass hopefully I'll make some more.   
 Q.  You got another Sun Devil up on the leaderboard.  Phil Mickelson is tied for the lead.  Obviously, you don't get repaired until Sunday, but I'm sure that would be fun to play with Phil on Sunday in the final groups?  
CHEZ REAVIE: It would be fantastic.  I've been able to play with Phil a couple times and he's a great guy, a lot of fun to play with and obviously he's playing some good golf, so if I'm paired with him, obviously it means I'm doing something right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT