NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2015
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Winning last week put a little pressure on you?  You kind of go out here free and easy?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, a little bit.  I mean you've always got goals, right?  So now it's a new goal:  trying to finish No. 1 on the list here.
There is always pressure if you want to find it.  Yeah, it's definitely nice knowing I've got a TOUR card locked up for next year.  Now you want to finish as high on the list so you can give yourself as many opportunities as possible to play well.
Q. What's that No. 1 spot comes a spot in the PLAYERS next year.  Just being fully exempt and not having to worry about reshuffles, is that a motivating factor at all?
CHEZ REAVIE: 100%.  Absolutely.  I mean, it's just as motivating as trying to play to get your card, to be honest with you.  It's huge to not be in the reshuffle and pick your schedule and be in the PLAYERS.  It's a big deal.
Q. I know 2-Under is one of the lower scores out here this week.  Last couple weeks scores have been a little lower.  How would you describe the challenge of this course?
CHEZ REAVIE: This course is brutal.  Every hole has teeth.  You have to be on your game, you have to be putting well, you have to be chipping well.  It's very, very difficult.
Even with the wind blowing, what, five, ten miles an hour today, really makes it challenging.  If you short-side yourself a little bit, get in one of the bunkers, you can make a double bogey in a heartbeat.
So it's very, very demanding.
Q. How is your health?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, you know, the last four or five months I would say 100%.  It's definitely a new normal.  My wrist is never going to be the same, but it's better than it's been in a long, long time.  If it stays this way -- I've got no aches and pains.  It would be great if I can stay this way for the next ten years or so.
Q. You say "new normal."  Does it affect you at all?  Did you have to learn a new way?  Alter swing at all?  Anything like that?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I've definitely tried to change my swing to take as much hands out of it as possible and get my body rotating through and keep the left wrist in the most neutral position possible.
Because the handsy-er I get, just puts pressure and strain on my wrist where I had surgery.  It's not bothering me now, but that doesn't mean if I get into some bad habits it won't start bothering me in the future.
Q. Did you come right here from Charlotte, or did you celebrate at all?
CHEZ REAVIE: No, I came straight in.  Flew in Sunday, yeah, night.  Took Monday off and tried to relax a little bit.
But, yeah, I came straight here.  My wife came in Tuesday, so we had a little celebratory dinner Tuesday night.
Q. She's here for the whole week?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah.  She'll be here this week and next week.
Q. Wins never get old, right?
CHEZ REAVIE: Ever.  You win anywhere, especially nowadays.  I mean, there are great players everywhere.  The winning scores out here, they win on tour as well.  The guys are great players and really have to be on your game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT