TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2012
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   This is your third start here.   You keep improving on this course every year.   This is by far your best performance and the best position you've had going into Sunday.   Are you just getting more comfortable up here or what's the improvement all about?
CHEZ REAVIE:   Yeah.   Yeah.   I'm getting more comfortable. 
I'm hitting the ball the way I want, and I'm starting to score the way I feel like I should be scoring, and definitely gaining some confidence.

Q.   How much of an advantage do you think you had?   You got to sleep in today?   Some guys are down here playing 36 holes.   You had a little bit of an advantage. 
CHEZ REAVIE:   Yeah.   Definitely more rest.   But I also played one afternoon on bumpier greens, you know, late in the day where they had two morning tee times, so they had smoother greens.   So I think it all balances out on Sunday.

Q.   Good luck on Sunday.   Thank you so much for joining us.   Your back nine today, I mean with the five birdies and going 4‑under there, so what changed from front nine to back nine to you?
CHEZ REAVIE:   Just some putts fell.   I had a lot of good opportunities on the front nine and didn't make any, but hit good putts and just stayed patient and I had a few go in on the back.

Q.   Obviously we had the rain last night.   Did you think softer greens maybe today that these lower scores that we're seeing were going to be possible today?
CHEZ REAVIE:   Yeah.   Usually when courses soften up, the guys out here really take advantage.   Some of the pin placements were actually a little tougher because they were in the back, and so with softer greens you can't go at them with a lot of spin, but some of them were easier also.

Q.   How do you feel after this good round going into Sunday?
CHEZ REAVIE:   I feel great.   I'm hitting the ball well and I made some putts today.   Looking forward to playing again tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT