TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 22, 2011
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just overall thoughts on your round today and talk about 17. 
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, 17, I pulled my tee shot. I was kind of struggling with my tee balls all day. I missed some drivers right and I missed a few left, and I hit a few good ones. But unfortunately on 17, I hit it solid, I just pulled it a little bit and it went in the water.

 Q. Then you came back with a par?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, fortunately I had a perfect number with where my ball went in the water and I hit a 7-iron up there to about four or five inches and tapped it in, and it was probably one of the easiest pars I had all day.

 Q. And overall your game today?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Overall it was great. I'm really happy with the way I chipped and putted. I made a lot of putts. I made a couple good par putts. And when I did manage to hit some greens, I made some birdies.

 Q. Talk about how the rain tonight and this afternoon is going to impact this course. 
 CHEZ REAVIE: You know, that's a good question. I haven't played it since it's rained. This is the first time it's really rained since I've been out here. The course is going to be great. I think the rain won't affect it a whole lot. It might soften the greens up a little bit, but it's still going to be in great shape.

 Q. Is there something about Atlanta that Keegan Bradley seems to like? Is he going to be tough to track down?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, he seems very comfortable in Atlanta, doesn't he? It's so early to tell. I don't even know what he shot to be honest with you. But there's still three rounds, so we'll see how it goes. 

 Q. Really solid, 4-under par. I know the double bogey early in the round probably was a little disappointing, but all in all seven birdies around this golf course, that's pretty good stuff. 
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I made a mile of putts today. I hit some good shots, but I hit some shaky shots, as well, and was able to make a few putts and hit it close a couple times coming in to save some pars.

 Q. You had a fun practice round yesterday with the boys. Did Phil give you a little advice going around this place? He's had a little success around here?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, he did. He told me on some holes where you can miss it and get way with it and where not to miss it. We had a good day. The greens are great and the course is in great shape, so if you're swinging well you can make some birdies. 

 Q. What is it about this golf course that seems to fit your -- it seems to fit everybody's game. You're not a really long hitter, but the long hitters play well here, the short hitters play well. What do you think it is about East Lake that gives everybody an opportunity here? 
 CHEZ REAVIE: There's a good mixture of holes. You hit a bunch of different clubs. Some holes you're hitting 4-irons at and some holes you're hitting a 3-wood and a wedge, or some holes you can even hit a driver and get it down there by the green and have a pitch shot. It's fun because you have a lot of different ways you can play it and you have to figure out how you want to attack it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT