DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2011
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Chez Reavie into the interview room here at the Deutsche Bank Championship. Chez, just a phenomenal round of golf, just one slip-up there on the last hole and then a tough loss there in the playoff. But still, great playing today. Comment as a whole on your thoughts.   
 CHEZ REAVIE: It was a good day. I played great all day. I hit -- my game plan on 18 with a one-shot lead I was going to hit it up the left and lay it up and wedge it on and make a par. Unfortunately my wedge didn't quite work out. But all in all on the day I played fantastic.  
 JOHN BUSH: Silver lining, you move up to No. 9 in the FedExCup so you're really secure into Chicago and then Atlanta. Talk about that.   
 CHEZ REAVIE: (Tearing up) It's unbelievable. Starting the year on a medical and not knowing what's going to happen, to be able to go to the TOUR Championship is a goal. It's what I wanted to do.   
  
  Q. You said your plan was to lay up on 18 all along?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, yeah, in regulation I was laying up no matter what. I mean, even if I had a 7-iron in my hand I was probably going to just lay it up and make a par. That's all I had to do, and there was no risk in that unless you hit a wedge over the green.   
  
  Q. Was it because of the strong winds today that you changed your philosophy?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, well, the second shot on that hole this week has kind of played with me a lot. It feels down quite a bit, and then when I would be ready to hit the shot, it would feel like it's off the right and almost into a little bit. So the one-shot lead I just decided I wasn't even going to let the wind affect me at all.   
  
  Q. Can you take us through the third shot into 18 in regulation?   
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I had 119 yards to the flag. I had 113 up to that top shelf, which is all I had to carry it. The wind was off the right, and I thought, if anything, a little hurting. So I was just -- I took a 54-degree wedge and I was just going to hit it three quarter, and I did that and pulled it a little bit and then the wind switched from off the right and in to off the right and down and then I pulled it on top of it, which just made it go even further.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk about that putt for the win?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: In regulation?   
  
  Q. In regulation.   
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I hit a good putt, I just didn't play enough break, and it just broke and I missed it just low. You know, I still felt good about it, and I felt good going into the playoff. I hit good shots and Webb just made two birdies.  
  
  Q. Walking off of 1 tee, I'm not sure if it was you or Brendan Steele, but one of you said, "Second to last group, we're flying under the radar, let's go make a move."   
 CHEZ REAVIE: That's what Brendan said, and that's the truth. We had some people following us but we didn't have a ton. We were just kind of cruising. We're friends, and we were chatting all day. I was making birdies and Brendan hung in there. He got off to a tough start and fought back, but it was a great day.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about those long putts there on the back nine?   
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah. It was just great. I had a lot of putts to where when I walked up right behind it, I just saw the line right away. So I tried not to think too much about it and get in the way, so I just would kind of look at it and hit it, and I made quite a few of them.   
  
  Q. Along the lines with Brendan Steele, you said something to him walking off the 18th green in regulation. Do you remember what that was? You kind of high-fived him. Do you remember what you said?   
 CHEZ REAVIE: Oh, he said, "Go get 'em in the playoff," and I just said, "Hey, thanks for a great day. It was a lot of fun."  
  
  Q. 18 played the easiest all week. Is it going to be difficult for you knowing that you needed to make 5 at the end to win, not to think that you kind of let it get away?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: You know, it's definitely difficult to think about it. It's not hard to make a 5. I mean, I'm going to make a 5 there nine times out of ten. Unfortunately it was the only bogey I had all day, and the wind kind of got me there and I pulled it just a touch.   
 But I'm going to look at the positives of the day. I played great all day. I gave myself a chance to win. I made a birdie on the first playoff hole. I was right there, Webb just made two birdies and I only made one.   
  
  Q. I know you never want to get too far ahead but when you made that birdie on 16 did you sort of think it was going to be your day?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: Absolutely I did. Absolutely. After I made birdie there I would have bet I was going to birdie the last two holes, as well. I heard Webb make birdie when I was on 17 green I think is when he made birdie and I saw it posted, so I knew I had a one-shot lead, and that's why I chose my game plan, and unfortunately I just didn't execute it the way I wanted to.   
 JOHN BUSH: Chez, thanks. Keep it going next week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT