DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2011
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: Chez Reavie, another great round to get to 10-under. Looks like a big tie at 1st right now. If you want to talk about your round and then we'll take some questions.   
 CHEZ REAVIE: Got off to a slow start. I missed a few greens, but I had some good up-and-downs, made some good par putts and stayed patient and hit some good shots on the back nine, made a couple birdies.   
  
  Q. I know it's too early to even guess what a number would be tomorrow, but do you see someone shooting 65 or lower and breaking this logjam?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: It all depends on the wind tomorrow. I don't know what the wind was doing this morning, but I saw a few guys shot really low, and if they would have done that this afternoon in this wind, it would have been spectacular. It played very difficult when I was out there, and if the wind blows like this tomorrow, I mean, I don't see anybody shooting 7-under tomorrow late in the afternoon.   
  
  Q. When you look at the leaderboard, you've got a lot of different guys up there, bombers, you've got shorter guys. When you look at that leaderboard what are you thinking, who might emerge tomorrow?   
 CHEZ REAVIE: You know, to be honest, I haven't really looked at it much. I don't know really who's up there. This is a golf course, though, when it's playing firm and fast like it is, you don't have to be a bomber out there to get it out there. I mean, there are some holes you can chase it a long ways. Some guys, like 18, I guess some of the guys who hit it really long can take it over that right bunker, but the majority, I'd say 99 percent of the guys are hitting it up the left.   
 You don't have to be a long hitter to score well out here.   
  
  Q. You're going to have to refresh my memory. I know you came into this year with X at-bats to get to X dollars. I don't remember, did you get that figure, or have you pretty much --  
 CHEZ REAVIE: From the medical?   
  
  Q. Yeah, the medical thing. Did you hit your number?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: I did not hit the Top 125 number. I had 12 starts to make about $660,000, something like that, and I fell a little short. I finished in the Top 150 category, so that got me through the summer events, and I played well. So now all the good play got me into like Memorial, Colonial, those events, and the FedExCup here. But the Fall Series I'm not in any of the events. I'm in Vegas. I'm not in the last three events just because I don't think the Top 150 category will get into those tournaments.   
 So it's been a strange year. I started off -- it seems like every couple weeks I had some sort of deadline. I had two weeks to make this, I had two more weeks to do this, and then I had a week to make a certain number to get into Memorial. It's been a long year. I'm looking forward to starting the year next year with full status and not having to worry about making a certain number for a certain week.  
  
  Q. So you got into the Deere and those ones in the summertime off of what status?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, so the John Deere, all those events, I got in off the Top 150 status, and then I got in the Canadian Open by being a past champion. Yeah, it seemed -- Greenbrier I wasn't in, they gave me a sponsor's exemption and then I ended up getting in on my own Wednesday afternoon. There were a couple events. Colonial did the same thing, they gave me a sponsor's exemption, I ended up getting in on my own on Wednesday. But at least I could go there at the beginning of the week knowing I was in the field no matter what so I could go there and prepare and stick to my same routine. So I definitely had some help along the way if I needed it.  
  
  Q. Now it's this time of year and it's all week to week again anyway?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: Right, exactly, so it's more of the same for me this year. I might be the only guy in the field who's used to not knowing if I'm in next week.  
  
  Q. Did you get any sponsor exemptions or need any post-Memorial?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: Well, Greenbrier gave me -- I didn't need any at the end of the day, but I got a few going into the week and then ended up getting in late on my own.  
  
  Q. Given your position on the FedExCup Money List, does that allow you so sort of free-wheel it this week?   
 CHEZ REAVIE: I'm going to play tomorrow the way I've played all year. I'm just going to go play. At the beginning of the year when I had the 12 events and I had to make a certain amount, I was thinking a lot about how much money I had made and how much money I needed, and then it just -- it wasn't working. I wasn't playing well. I was stressed out.   
 So it got me into this state of mind to just go play golf, and I'll finish where I finish.  
  
  Q. How much money have you made this year?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: I've made a little over a million, almost $1.1.  
  
  Q. So your card is locked up?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: So I'm locked for next year, right.  
  
  Q. You just can't get into the Fry's?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, the Fall Series is tough.  
  
  Q. You ran this for us at the U.S. Open. You had the knee surgery when and you played for how long without which ligament in your leg?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, so I had ACL surgery and meniscus surgery on my right knee June 1st of last year. I played pretty much my entire career without an ACL, but I tore my meniscus at the Hope last year and didn't realize it and my knee swelled up real big, and I just kept icing it thinking it would get better, and I didn't realize I had re-torn my meniscus. So I went in and had an MRI and then had surgery three days later.  
  
  Q. Did they take care of everything while they were in there?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I had my ACL fixed, I used my patellar tendon for that, and then they shaved off the bit of my meniscus that was torn in my knee joint.  
  
  Q. How do you feel now?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: I feel fantastic. I didn't realize what I was missing. I had just been compensating so I was having back pain and neck pain, and I felt like I was 50 and I was 27. I didn't understand why until I had my knee fixed, and going through my rehab I realize how everything is just one big chain and if there's a kink somewhere it's going to create a kink somewhere else.   
 MARK STEVENS: Thanks a lot, Chez. Good luck tomorrow.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT