JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 9, 2011
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Well, Chez, a tale of two 9s. Front nine you couldn't get anything going. Back side you woke up, didn't you?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah. You know, we fought hard today. Front side was tough. I hit it in a few divots and hit a good tee shot on 6 and was in a tough spot there and made a good bogey, and the front nine was long and started making a few putts in the back, so it was fun.

 Q. I mean what was the difference on the back nine? Just really you hit some putts, I guess, huh?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah. You know, I started hitting the ball a little better. I started feeling a little better about it, and I think I just ended up in better spots. I felt like I hit some shots on the front nine that didn't end up in the best spots, and you know, I shot 1-over. That three-putt on 8 was tough. I was in a divot there in the fairway and managed to keep it on the green and then to give away a shot, but I had a good two-putt at 9 which gave me a little momentum and then got it going.

 Q. Let's talk about tomorrow now. I know a lot of hoopla now because Steve had another great round, but you're only three back. You're right there. 
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, you know, Steve's a great player. He's going to come out, he's going to play well again tomorrow, so I need to come out and shoot as low as I possibly can and you know, just see where I fall.

 Q. Chez, do you think it'll help you playing in the penultimate group and perhaps not with Steve in the final group? Do you think maybe that'll help you?
 CHEZ REAVIE: No. I was actually hoping to play with Steve. He's a great guy and he's a great player and he has great rhythm out there and he's just a nice guy and it would have been fun to go out and play with him tomorrow, so I'm a little disappointed.

 Q. Nevertheless, you're right there. Good luck tomorrow. 
 CHEZ REAVIE: Thank you. 

 Q. Thanks, Chez. Keep it going, man. Talk about your round today. Slower start, but things went well on the back. 
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah. Front nine was tough. I hit some kind of squirrely shots early and hit some good ones and ended up in some tough spots, made a couple bogeys, but fortunately I hung in there and had a good back nine.

 Q. Did you get comfortable coming in with the lead and stuff? Was it anything about getting comfortable or what was the difference?
 CHEZ REAVIE: No. You know, I birdied the first hole. I was very comfortable, had a good look at birdie on 2, and I just hit it, hit a few divots in the fairways on the front and then had a tough one on 6. I hit it just to the fairway and had to stand in the bunker and hit it over the green and made a bogey. So I kind of cost a little momentum there, but I hung in there.

 Q. How will you approach tomorrow? And there's a familiar name that a lot of people are going to be watching. How do you kind of approach chasing him tomorrow?
 CHEZ REAVIE: You know, I'm just going to make as many birdies as I can. He's going to come out, he's going to play great tomorrow. He plays great just about every day he plays golf. So I have to come out and make as many birdies as I can and just see where I end up.

 Q. What was it like on the first hole when I think you were probably out on the fairway by then and you hear the roar and his 75-foot birdie goes in. 
 CHEZ REAVIE: I wasn't even paying any attention, to be honest with you. I didn't even know he made birdie on the first hole.

 Q. Did you scoreboard watch? How do you keep track of what's going on there? Do you focus? Do you look every so often?
 CHEZ REAVIE: You know, if I see it as I'm walking or something, but I don't really look at it. I looked at it on the last hole when I was walking up to the green and saw that he got up to 20-under. I didn't realize that was a par putt on the last hole. That's pretty impressive. But he's a great player.

 Q. So following him didn't play into --
 CHEZ REAVIE: No, not at all. You could hear some roars, and I figured he was making birdies, but I knew he was going to make birdies. He makes a lot of birdies out here. 

 Q. Still right there. Do you settle for a number for tomorrow or do you just go out --
 CHEZ REAVIE: No, I'm going to try and shoot as low as I can. 58's a pretty good number.

 Q. You're not in the last group. Would you like to be playing with him or do you kind of prefer maybe -- there's going to be a lot of attention on that last group, obviously. 
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I was hoping to be playing with him. He's a great guy, he's a great golfer, and it would have been a lot of fun to play with him tomorrow. Unfortunately I didn't quite play well enough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT