WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2009
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just, first of all, just talk about today and the length of the day, you guys had to wait around a long time to get playing and get it going. What did you feel like today in this last round?
 CHEZ REAVIE: It was easy today because I knew I had a late tee time. I could prepare. I just showed up and went through my normal routine like it was 8:00 in the morning.

 Q. Follow-up a 6-under round with a 3-under round. Stumbled on the way in on 18. How bad was that lie in the left rough?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, it was tough. It was just enough to make me think I could get it on the green. You have to hit the fairway on that hole and I haven't done that yet.

 Q. As far as shots go, No. 9, probably one of your best shots of the day, I think you stuck it within four feet for that birdie. Talk through that birdie.
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah. I hit it in the fairway. I had a perfect number, 164 yards to the hole, and hit a nice 8 iron in there and made the putt for birdie.

 Q. As far as how this tournament is setting up, how do you think it is for your game?
 CHEZ REAVIE: The course is great. The greens are great. You have to hit it in the fairway. That is right up my alley. I hit a lot of fairways. I need to hit the fairway and then I won't have any bogies at all.

 Q. Do you consider yourself a scoreboard watcher?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Not at all. I look at them. They don't bother me. Sometimes I like to know where I'm at. It doesn't affect where I am at all.

 Q. When you get slotted tomorrow a little bit later in the round, you'll be able to watch what happens in front of you. Going to be watching the coverage?
 CHEZ REAVIE: I'll go through my routine and workout with my trainer and do my deal. When I get out on the golf course I'll see where people are going but I'm not going to focus on it.

 Q. Do you have a number in mind when you go into tomorrow, Sunday?
 CHEZ REAVIE: As low as possible. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT