WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2009
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: All right. Chez Reavie, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after the final completion of your first round, 6-under, 64. Off to a great start.   
 Just a few comments about your first round here at the Wyndham Championship, how you're feeling. Things are clicking for you. Just kind of assess the state of you are game as you see it.  
 CHEZ REAVIE: You know, the putter woke up today. It was nice. I've been hitting the ball well for the last month in half or so. I just hadn't been able to make any putts and, you know, I felt good about it in practice rounds and it has been there, just tournament rounds I hadn't been making the putts.  
 I relaxed and I made a few early which helped my confidence and I ran with it.   
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. You did half just that little kick-in. Was there a possibility of you getting that putt? I thought I heard Michael Collins say that you might have -- you could have putted first or --  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah. We were all very close in our distance proximity from the hole. It was just kind of a toss-up on who was going to putt first in our last group and I said we'll go this way. I ended up being the last one.   
 I should have done it the other way. I would have been out of here a long time ago. That is kind of the way it happens. I could have made the first putt and left anyway.  
 It was just close. We kind of guessed on who was further away.  
 DOUG MILNE: At a few questions.  
  
  Q. Have you ever waited four hours or so to finish around with a putt like that?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: No. First time I only had one putt left to finish the round.  
  
  Q. What did you do on the break?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: Hung out in the family dining. Joked around with the other players and their wives.  
  
  Q. Did you stretch out at all?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: It was actually funny. When I walked to the putting green my caddy had three balls lined up.  
  
  Q. Did you make all three?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: I did not hit them. I picked them up.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised you hadn't broken through again since last --  
CHEZ REAVIE: I put too much pressure on myself. I started trying too hard. I started trying to force it.   
 I took me a little while to realize I was doing that as well. Lately I've just relaxed out there and just gone and played like I did last year and it is -- I'm playing better.  
  
  Q. Just to clarify, the other two finished before the horn?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yes. I was the only one left.  
  
  Q. Did you realize they were about to blow it?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: No. I heard a little thunder when I was reading the putt. I ran up and hit it. I should have marked it. I could have taken more time with it.  
  
  Q. Would it have hurt them to have waited another 20, do you think/  
CHEZ REAVIE: They definitely could have walked up to the green and seen I only had ten inches left or whatever it was and then blown it but they weren't on the green. I think they were on 10 tee. They were making sure those guys didn't tee off. If somebody would have been up there they would have held off, let me tap it in.  
  
  Q. I guess it is better to have a tap-in for a 64 instead of 74?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yes.   
  
  Q. You heard the thunder. Are you saying you kind of rushed --  
CHEZ REAVIE: I definitely rushed my first putt a little bit. I was standing behind it and reading it when I heard the thunder. Once I heard it, I stepped up and hit it where I initially read it.  
  
  Q. How far was that first putt?  
 CHEZ REAVIE: I don't know. 12 feet, maybe. Somewhere in there.  
 DOUG MILNE: All right. Chez, thanks for stopping by. Congratulations on a great first round. Best of luck tomorrow and into the weekend.  
 CHEZ REAVIE: Thanks, guys.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT