WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2008
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What were you initially going to be doing? Reno? 
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I was signed up to play in Reno, and I had to change all my flights and all my hotels and everything. We got it all taken care of and I got in here Monday night, so it was good.

 Q. Did you start looking at the schedule, not only how it's going to impact you for the rest of the year but 2009, it's going to set a better schedule for yourself?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, one thing, I'm real lucky in that I've played a lot of events this year, so I've really seen most of the golf courses and I can pick my spots, the golf courses I really feel comfortable on, and maybe take a few weeks off from the courses I didn't feel comfortable on. So that was definitely a plus. 

 Q. Have you heard from anybody that's surprising?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Wayne Gretzky was probably the most surprising, yeah.

 Q. When did that happen?
 CHEZ REAVIE: He sent me a text on Sunday after I finished, just saying great playing and it was fun to watch and good job and he was happy for me.

 Q. Did you know he had your number?
 CHEZ REAVIE: No. I mean, we're members at the same club, Whisper Rock. It would be easy for him to find my number. But I was really surprised that he took the time and the effort to do that.

 Q. Did he call you "The next great one"? 
 CHEZ REAVIE: No, nothing like that. Just good job. I don't want that pressure.

 Q. Have you played with him at all?
 CHEZ REAVIE: I see him a lot. I haven't played with him.

 Q. I know he's got the bug bad. Isn't he sponsoring an event somewhere?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, Nationwide Tour in Canada. He's got the bug, and he really enjoys watching young people come up and become successful. So that's one reason why he sponsored the Canadian.

 Q. Are you a hockey fan?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yes. I just started getting into hockey when I started working with Peter Kostis. He had season tickets, and that was when I went to my first hockey game, and I was hooked after I saw it live.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 CHEZ REAVIE: No. I mean, maybe a little bit, but it's a different world. He obviously knows a lot more about it than I do.

 Q. Why did the light go on last week for you?
 CHEZ REAVIE: You know, I started making putts. You know, I've been hitting the ball well for a long time, for almost a whole year. I haven't had too many bad ball-striking weeks, but it's the putter that really heated up, especially Friday. I got to play 33 holes, and I started making putts, and I just ran with it all day.

 Q. It's kind of funny, sometimes when you're doing those rain-out makeup days, if you don't have it going good it's a huge disadvantage because you're out there that much longer and suffering, but if you've got it going good, you can make up a whole lot more holes?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Absolutely. Some guys get tired on the long days, and it makes it tougher for them. But when you're playing well and you're making a lot of putts, the day just seems to fly by.

 Q. It seemed like you've used basically the same putter ever since you've been a pro and even in college. Yet when guys are having problems with putting they're switching and changing. Why did you never do that?
 CHEZ REAVIE: It wasn't the putter's fault. I was the one hitting bad putts. I was still hitting a few good putts and I could see the light at the end of the tunnel, I just wasn't very consistent with it. I loved the way the putter looked. I switched to a mallet putter the week of Wachovia, and it didn't quite suit my eye. I was putting okay with it on the putting green, but on the course I just didn't have the touch I have with the one I'm using now.

 Q. Have you noticed any more recognition?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Oh, yeah, everybody. It just shows you how many people watch golf. You know, everyone is congratulating me in the crowd, saying good playing last week, proud of you, and they've shown a lot of support. 

 Q. Have you played Firestone before this week?
 CHEZ REAVIE: No, it's my first time here.

 Q. What do you think so far?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Great course. It's very tough, very rewarding. It's very fair when you hit good shots, but you definitely get punished when you hit a poor one.

 Q. Outside of obviously this week, not being at Reno, what other events do you think that you will probably not play in because of your schedule changes?
 CHEZ REAVIE: You know, I'm really not too sure. The only one I'm definitely not going to be at is the Wyndham Championship there in Greensboro, just because this is week seven, next week is week eight, and I'm going to have at least one week off before the FedExCup starts. So that's the only guarantee. I'm not sure what I'm going to do in the fall yet. 

 Q. You were planning to play Wyndham before last week?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yes, I was going to play Reno, have the PGA Championship off and then go to Greensboro.

 Q. So where are you in the FedExCup race now? 
 CHEZ REAVIE: 29th.

 Q. How does that -- obviously now you go from not even thinking about the FedExCup probably really --
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, well, that's not true. I was still in the first FedExCup, and the way they have it set up, if you're in the first one and you play well, you're going to make the second one; you play well there, you're going to make the third. I was still looking forward to playing FedExCup, it's just now I'm guaranteed at least, I think, the first two.

 Q. Realistically now you have a chance. 
 CHEZ REAVIE: Oh, yeah, absolutely. I mean, I go play well and everything else will take care of itself.

 Q. Where were you on the Money List heading into last week?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Roughly I was around 138.

 Q. So you were bubble boy?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I mean, I was playing well. I got off to a great start and I just had that lull with a putter there for a while. But yeah, I was definitely outside the Top 125.

 Q. How do you keep from getting ahead of yourself? Rookie of the Year suddenly comes into play. I mean, how do you keep from getting ahead of yourself? 
 CHEZ REAVIE: You know, I'm just taking it one step at a time. It's mainly just setting new goals and just focusing on my goals and what I need to accomplish. And then all that Rookie of the Year and all that other stuff will take care of itself if I just fulfill the goals I set out for myself. 
 My first goal was to keep my card and my second goal was to finish top 100. I had a whole list of them. Then somewhere down in the middle it was winning my first golf tournament. But it was all gaining the experience I needed to have the tools to win out here.

 Q. Somewhere in the middle was winning a golf tournament, so what's on the top end of that equation?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Well, the top end was keeping my card, just giving myself more opportunities to play more. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT