RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 25, 2008
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO: Thanks for spending a few minutes with us here, backed up your 65 yesterday with a 64 today. What's clicking? 
 CHEZ REAVIE: Well, you know, fortunately it was a 65 this morning and a 64 this afternoon. I got to just keep my momentum and just keep playing all day. 

 Q. Did you have any feeling at all -- you played three holes yesterday. Did you have any feeling at all coming into the course today that something like this might happen? Was there anything -- did you feel that something good could happen today?
 CHEZ REAVIE: You know, yes. I've been hitting the ball great all week, and I've been working really hard on my putting because that's kind of been what's hurting me lately. My three holes yesterday I hit all solid shots, knocked them on the greens and hit some good putts. Didn't make them, but I felt confident standing over it. So I felt good going into the day. 

 Q. I read that you once had a nightmare in which you hit a ball into a water hazard. Is there anything you can tell us about that nightmare and maybe compare it to how your dream day went today?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Well, the nightmare was actually caused by my first PGA TOUR event in Las Vegas. I haven't had that nightmare in a long time. I don't think it'll have anything to do with this week. 

 Q. Most of the guys that played 30-odd holes today were tired afterwards. Do you wish you could play your next 18 right now, the way you were going?
 CHEZ REAVIE: No, I'm tired. I played really well, and I felt fine on the last hole when I finished. But when I signed my scorecard, I could feel kind of my energy just kind of leave my body. I'm definitely tired now. 

 Q. Chez is short for your middle name, Chesney, but were there any fans out there calling you Chez ("Shay")?
 CHEZ REAVIE: No, not out here, but I do get that a lot. For some reason everybody out there knew I was Chez. Nobody called me that today. 

 Q. Would you walk us through the eagle, just the distance there, and then just walk us through the final hole? 
 CHEZ REAVIE: Okay, yeah. On the eagle it was a par-5 into the wind. I hit a driver down the middle, laid up with a 5-iron, and then I had 78 yards to the hole, a little into the wind with a backstop, which was a good number for me, and I wanted to fly it 83 yards, and I think I flew it about 83 yards and spun it back into the hole. The going into the hole part is a bit lucky, but I was just hoping to hit it close. 

 Q. And the last hole? 
 CHEZ REAVIE: On the final hole I didn't hit the greatest drive, but I was still within range of getting there. I guess I was well within range and didn't realize it at the time. I had 240 to the hole, 220 to the front, and I hit a 2-iron that flew everything, flew the back bunker and went up on the hill. I actually had a good lie, but I was on such a slope I had to get under it, and I went right under it and went in the bunker. I knew if that happened, if I was in the bunker, I could get it up-and-down. I had a little room there.

 Q. Looking at the water, does that --
 CHEZ REAVIE: Definitely, looking into it, because you don't know how firm the ground is there because it's been so matted down. Obviously it's muddy, but you don't know if it's going to be soft or be muddy and not go anywhere. I just chunked it a little bit into the bunker and got it up-and-down.

 Q. I know this is your first year on TOUR. Is this as good as you've started an event or as good as you've started through 36 holes?
 CHEZ REAVIE: By far. This is by far my best start. I've been hitting the ball real well all year, I haven't been scoring real well, whether it's been putting or making a few birdies and then making a double bogey or something, I've just lost my momentum. Today fortunately I got to play 36 and I had some momentum and I was making putts, so it paid off.

 Q. Is there anything in particular about this course that agrees with you that you like?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I think having to hit it in the fairway is really important for me. The rough is long and it's wet, and so you have to hit the ball in the fairway to score well. That's something I do pretty well. I hit a lot of fairways usually. I don't hit it real long, but I hit a lot of fairways.

 Q. Someone was saying you played like six or seven weeks in a row. 
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah.

 Q. Is that normal for you?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Absolutely not. I try not to play more than three, to be honest. But I could see my game getting better each week. You know, each week like at the John Deere I had it, I had tied for 12th going into Sunday, so I was playing well and I had a tough day on Sunday.
 Then last week I hit the ball well and I just didn't make a whole lot of putts. So I'm trying to play my way through it. Hopefully we've kind of crossed over today. 

 Q. A lot of the players have discussed how being able to put their hands on the ball makes a huge difference. For somebody who's -- I think you hit 24 of 28 fairways in the first two days. Do you consider that even a greater advantage?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Oh, absolutely. I mean, there's a lot of mud on the ball, and so we need to be able to touch it and clean it because between the mud and the wind and the rough, I mean, nobody would be under par if we couldn't touch it. So that's even more of an advantage because every time you're in the fairway you get to clean it and then place it on a perfect lie. You can even move it a full club length to help yourself with some angles to feel a little more comfortable if you need to. So it definitely helps.

 Q. When was the last time you held a five-shot lead somewhere?
 CHEZ REAVIE: That's a great question. Today. Maybe the Nation City Championship when I was 14 or something, but I can't remember. 

 Q. Do you think you'll be able to turn it off tonight and get your rest? Maybe describe what your psyche is like when you do have a lead in a tournament. Are you able to sort of like turn it off and get ready for the next day?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, usually I'm pretty good at it. I think today I have even more of an advantage because I played so many holes and I'm tired. I'm going to go have dinner and I'm going to be ready to go to bed. I don't think it'll be very hard today. 

 Q. Can you tell us how the sponsorship with the Diamondbacks came about and some background on that?
 CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I'm a huge baseball fan, and my agency, my agent, Gaylord Sports Management, they have a baseball division and they actually have baseball tickets. Every time I was in town, I was calling them and taking their tickets to go to the games. He's like, well, let's see if we can't work something out. So he made some calls, and they were excited about it. 
 NELSON SILVERIO: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT