TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2019
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well, Chez, the draw has not been good to you.  Rained hard yesterday afternoon and again this morning, but you're no worse for wear.  Only one bogey over 36 holes.  You got to be happy.
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, very happy.  I hit the ball well the last two days, but more importantly I thought my way around the golf course really well, especially today with the wind and the rain, and fortunately didn't make a bogey.
Q. You've had a really consistent year.  35th in FedExCup points; four Top 10s; tied for third at the U.S. Open.  Is this your most consistent year on tour?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I would say the last three years I've been trending in that direction.  I think last year I was very consistent as well and it's been good.  I've been working really hard with Mark Blackburn and we've built a good foundation.  Now it's just up to me to go out there and perform.
Q. Talk a little bit about driving in the fairways.  You're second to Jim Furyk, like 74%.  That's setting you up, because you're rarely ever in trouble off the tee.
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, that's key for me.  I've got to hit the fairways, especially since I don't fly it 330 like some of these guys.  I got to make sure I'm in the fairways to give myself good lies and good angles at the pin.
Q. Excited about maybe getting your second win this weekend?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, absolutely.  It would be great.  There is a long way to go, but definitely thinking about it and excited and hopefully it happens.
Q. Get some comments on your day, please.
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, played really solid.  Hit a bunch of fairways, hit a bunch of green.  It was tough with the wind and rain.  Just wanted to give myself as many birdie putts as I could.
Q. What went well?  Group of clubs going well for you?  Specific shots?
CHEZ REAVIE: I had to hit everything today.  Some of the holes played shorter that were downwind, but then coming in, like 4, 7, 8, those holes played quite a bit longer than they have all week, so hit longer irons in there.
Hit probably the best shot of the day on 7; hit a 5-iron from 197 to like a foot and a half.
Q. What's the hardest part about playing in conditions like this?
CHEZ REAVIE: You know, just the rhythm.  You're taking your umbrella out; you're getting under the umbrella; you're trying to work with your caddie; trying to clean your balls in the fairway.  I mean, it throws your rhythm off, but you have to take that extra second and stay patient.
Q. Coming off your good play at the U.S. Open, what kind of momentum are you taking into the weekend?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, playing well.  I've been hitting ball well for a while, but I think now I'm starting to think my way around the golf course better.  My bogey-avoidance number is very good right now, and for me that's key.  If I'm not making bogeys it will give me a chance to win.
Q. Do you like being part of the first group going out?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, I don't mind it.  I show up when they tell me to show up.  I don't really get a choice, so try not to let anything bother me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT