U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2019
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You were in the pony show right down the wire.  Talk about what you've been able to do?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, it was a lot of fun.  Had some good looks today.  Missed a lot of birdie putts right around the hole.  Hit good putts.  Made a couple of good par putts to stay in it, and I just had a great day today, it was a lot of fun.
Q. There's been so much made of obviously playing in this historic venue, especially on that finishing hole.  To be among the last to come in on a Sunday, talk about that experience?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, you know, it was great.  And playing with Brooks, him having a chance to win three in a row, hitting a great tee shot there and trying to make eagle on the last, it was kind of a storybook finish.  I enjoyed every second of it.
Q. Could you talk about with this finish, you're going to qualify for the Masters next year, what that means to you?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, it's nice.  It's nice going into the holidays being able to plan your schedule and being in all those big events.  I've only had it a few times in my career.  I'm definitely going to enjoy it.
Q. Your best finish in a major?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, it was great.  I thought the Phoenix Open was exciting and all the people and everything there going into a playoff, but it still doesn't compete, even if you throw 300,000 people out there, it's still not the same.  I learned a lot today and enjoyed every second.
Q. As far as just knowing that you could be there and stuck with it in a major championship, with the pressure you put yourself under?
CHEZ REAVIE: Exactly.  Seeing Brooks Koepka do it today, he was trying to threepeat, all the pressure on him.  He's playing like he plays on Tuesday.  I played with him Monday here, and he played exactly the same as Monday.  There's zero difference no matter what the stage, no matter what the situation.  It's something I'll take and try and use in the future.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT