U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2019
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. G-Mac was just up here saying that tomorrow feels like it's a hang around kind of day.  Do you agree with that?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, absolutely.  It's playing tough out there, and the whole deal is not making bogeys, trying to figure how to plat your way around each hole and give yourself the best chance to make par.  You can make a few birdies if you make some putts, but you're trying to make a lot of pars.
Q. What's going to be the key for you going into tomorrow?
CHEZ REAVIE: Fairways and greens.  Kind of the same today.  I kind of messed it up on the last hole.  I was trying to lay it up on the fairway and missed the fairway, I got lucky and had a decent lie, but it was a scary layup shot.  Even from the fairways the greens are firm.  Quite a few good shots that land into bigger skips.  So fairways and greens and like I said, no bogeys.
Q. Talk about (indiscernible).
CHEZ REAVIE: Bethpage, I played well there, but I was wearing out my 4-iron, and 5-iron and hybrid.  That's what makes this golf course great.  They can make it just as challenging with hitting 4-irons off the tees and wedges and greens.  If you get one shot out of position, you can't get greedy, you have to figure out how to get the next in position.
Q. Did you think about that coming into this week?
CHEZ REAVIE: This is a great golf course.  I really enjoy playing here.  This is the firmest and fastest I've ever played it.  But it's just a -- it's fun because you hit every club in your bag.  There's many ways to play different holes.  You've got to pick out the way that's most comfortable for you and just grind it out.
Q. Have you been pleased with the conditions and the USGA setup this weekend?
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, it's been great.  It's tough.  But it's fair.  It's right in front of you.  I feel like they're in complete control of the golf course, which is fantastic.  It was firmer and faster today.  And I think it will be firmer and faster tomorrow.  But it's completely in control.  There's absolutely nothing that you can be upset about this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT