U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2019
Chez Reavie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Birdies on 16 and 17.  Can you tell me about the clubs you hit in and how long the birdie putts were?  
CHEZ REAVIE: 16 I hit a 9-iron in there, came up a bit short, was able to make a long putt, 40 feet or so.  The good thing was it was below the hole.  It was a putt I could get more aggressive with.   
17 I hit a great 4-iron in, into the wind off the right.  Playing about -- I think the actual yard is 217, hit a 4-iron in there to about six feet behind the hole and made a good putt down the hill.   
 Q.  Your position on the leaderboard is strong right now.  How does that make you feel about going into the weekend?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, it's great.  For me it's just fairways and greens and try and not make bogeys.  I know I'm going to make a few birdies, have birdie looks.  Bogey avoidance is key for me this week.   
 Q.  How about the quick turnaround, you rebounded pretty well on that?  
CHEZ REAVIE: When the alarm went off, I felt like I had just fallen asleep, so it came early.  We're used to it.  We get up week in and week out, we always have one day that's pretty early.  It was really no surprise, just kind of wake up, get a little coffee and try and get going.   
 Q.  The course and the U.S. Open for the weekend, do you feel there's going to be more low scoring happen, or what's in your mind as you prepare for the weekend?  
CHEZ REAVIE: I feel like the course is going to play tougher and tougher the rest of the week.  They were firmer today than yesterday.  There's going to be fewer and fewer low scores.  And par is going to be a better number.  If you have it to 7- or 8-under par and you can keep it there, that's a great score.   
Odds are I don't think it will be that low, I think it will be closer to even par than people think.  This golf course has a lot of teeth with these greens, especially when they firm up.  I think every day is going to be tougher and guys have to dig in and make a lot of pars.   
 Q.  Are you one of those patient guys that can play that way?  
CHEZ REAVIE: I am sometimes, when I'm playing well I'm definitely more patient.  And today was a great example.  I didn't get off to a great start, I wasn't hitting it great.  I hung in, made some pars, and tried to make a couple of birdies coming in.   
In the past I would have got patient and tried to make birdies quicker after making the bogeys, and that would lead to more bogeys.  I just tried to keep making pars, give myself some looks and just believe that I was going to make a couple of them coming in.   
 Q.  Does your win at the Public Links still linger in your mind, saying I need to grind?  
CHEZ REAVIE: Yeah, part of it, too, I've gone through some injuries early in my career since I've been out on Tour, so that gives me a good perspective and helps me stay patient and realize it's a process.  You can't win the golf tournament on the first hole.  You have to hang in there and stay patient.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT