TMS - HAMBURG
May 14, 2001
Alex Calatrava
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Last week you won against Agassi; now Sampras.  Do you have any words to express   --
 
ALEX CALATRAVA:  I think there is a lot of work left.  This is fantastic win again like last week, but well, it is just one more match like  -- like before we used to have a lot of bonus points if we beat players like these guys, but now it is the same points if you beat No. 1 in the world or 500 in the world.  So now I am very confident.  Very happy, fantastic to win today but hopefully I can keep on going. 
 
Q.  I guess you have seen Sampras playing before and today on clay court, what do you think is Sampras's problem, the surface or how well your game was today?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA:  I don't want to take out too much credit from me, but I played him '98 one time and I lost.  It was a tough match on clay also; in Atlanta.  He won the tournament.  But probably that match I had a lot of respect also.  So today I also had respect, but I had controlled it more and we all know that the clay, it is not his favorite surface, but anyway you have to beat him. 
 
Q.  Do you know why it is not his favorite surface?   Do you have any  --
 
ALEX CALATRAVA:  On hard court and on grass he gets a lot of free points with the service.  And on clay, it is slower, so it is harder to get so many free points.  I think that is basically the first thing.  Then he doesn't have the same patience  -- I think he could be very good on clay also, but it is just a chip  -- just you have to be a little more patient, but it has been probably the best players the whole years. 
 
Q.  Is the ball is more heavier, I guess, does this make any difference to you?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA:  Sorry. 
 
Q.  The ball is a bit heavier?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA:  Well, actually they are lighter than in Monte Carlo, those are Penn, used to be Monte Carlo Dunlop, only thing it is softer, but it is lighter, so  -- I like them.  I mean, I won last week a good match.  Today a good match, so I like them. 
 
Q.  What about the court in comparison to Rome?   Is it faster?  Slower?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA:  I came here Friday and the first day I thought it was slower, but now we had like three fantastic days, very sunny, so today it was a little faster than in Rome.  But I think Hamburg normally when it gets a little rainy and the court gets heavier, it is much slower than Rome.  But well today the conditions were pretty quick. 
 
Q.  You were born in Cologne I heard?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA:  Yes. 
 
Q.  How long did you stay in Germany?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA:  Seven years.  Until I was 7. 
 
Q.  Are you able to speak German?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA:  Not really.  I can understand some, but since I was 7 I didn't really speak it, so...  And then I have improved a lot my English now.  I get confused with English.  But I can understand pretty much, but I guess if I do like an intensive course or something I would. 
 
Q.  Have you ever been here in Hamburg?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA:  No, actually the first time I have been here.  
 
Q.  When the draw came out on Friday and you were thrown against Sampras a week after you won against Agassi, what was your first reaction?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA:  I laughed.  I was laughing. You know, I mean, it is a little bit weird to play one week Sampras first round  -- Agassi first round then next week Sampras, but I was confident and these matches, you don't get to play them a lot, so I have nothing to lose and a lot to win, you see and right now I am here, everybody wants to know something about me.  So it is very nice.  And well I gave my best.  He has the pressure and I took advantage of it. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT