TMS - ROME
March 8, 2001
Alex Calatrava
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  So how does it feel to beat Agassi?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA: It's a very good feeling.  It's a really good feeling.  No, I've been working very hard since I was very small, and it's always very satisfying when you get a win like this, especially when somebody's like No. 1 in the Race like he is, and he's such a big name. It was  -- I played very good.  I didn't do too many mistakes.  And I guess he's still looking his form on clay court.  It's not very easy to play the first tournament, so... Because I have the same problem the first tournaments, it's always really tough. And I knew it, and I gave 100 percent since the beginning.  And I thought that I could beat him, and so I went since the beginning very strong.  
 

Q.  What do you think was the difference?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA: I think he was a little bit too anxious to finish the points quickly, and he was taking risk inside the court.  And clay, I mean, you have to  -- you got to have very good timing.  He has it, but you first have to get used to it and you have to be a little bit more patient.  And I took advantage of that.  
 

Q.  Were you disappointed with your first serve?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA: Yeah, actually today I didn't serve that good, but actually worked well because every time I was putting like a hard first serve in, the ball was coming very quick back.  So I got lucky a little bit with that. And I guess my kick, he didn't like my second serve kick because he was stepping in and he was sometimes hitting it with the frame and it was getting soft.  So I could dominate the point. 
 

Q.  You said you were working very hard for that.  What changed this year? You were good in Australia, you looked good in Barcelona.  This year, what's the change?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA: Yeah, well, last year was probably  -- I mean was the best year of my career, and I start very well the beginning of the year.  But I've been losing after that a lot of matches, very close matches. And I think it was maybe a  -- I lost a little confidence because of that.  I was playing good, but I wasn't doing any semifinal, finals, and that's it. But I've always been working and being positive.  
 

Q.  Do you keep in touch with Tarik Benhabiles?  You were coached by him at the beginning.
 
ALEX CALATRAVA: Yes, I was coached by him six years ago. 
 

Q.  You haven't spoken with him recently?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA: Yes, I see him a lot, a lot of tournaments, especially in the States.  Now he's having a good job with Roddick, I guess. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible). 
 
ALEX CALATRAVA:  Well, I guess that gave me also a little bit of confidence.  I knew he wasn't gonna be with too much confidence, and I went since the first point, tried to beat him.  
 

Q.  With Sampras and Agassi and maybe Henman in trouble, how do you feel about the tournament now?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA: You know, I like to go step by step because all the matches are really tough, and that I won today doesn't mean that now I'm gonna get to the finals for sure.  So I just gonna give 100 percent my next match, and hopefully it's gonna go fine.  
 

Q.  When you speak of 100 percent, how would you rate yourself today? You played 100 percent or 105 or what?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA: I think  -- no, I mean when I  -- I guess today I was probably mentally 100 percent in the game.  I mean, you always do mistakes and you can never be 100 percent.  But just being positive and keep on going, that's what I mean, just give my best mentally. 
 

Q.  And about him, how do you rate him today?
 
ALEX CALATRAVA: I guess mentally he was okay because he wasn't, like, getting mad or anything.  But he was just impatient.  He wanted to take the ball too early and take a lot of risks, so I think he was impatient.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT