US OPEN
August 29, 1997
Corina Morariu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How are you doing?

CORINA MORARIU: Better.

Q. You are better, but you are not --

CORINA MORARIU: Obviously I am not the best, but I am definitely feeling much better. I
am still a little bit tired and a little bit weak. But, after my match today, fine, which
was surprising. Plus, pleasantly surprised about that.

Q. Why pleasantly surprised?

CORINA MORARIU: Well, I couldn't walk after my match for about a day, so.

Q. Really?

CORINA MORARIU: Yeah, I was really weak. They had to wheel me out of here.

Q. I know they had to wheel you off the court.

CORINA MORARIU: Oh, yeah, they had to wheel me out of here. I left at 9 o'clock. I
couldn't walk until the next morning or eat.

Q. So you couldn't until -- you were here 'til 9 o'clock getting I.V.?

CORINA MORARIU: Yeah, I had four and a half liters put in me. So, I was very, very
dehydrated. On-court I was getting so nauseous. I was -- and, I couldn't drink, so I
didn't even finish a bottle of water in my match. When I got in there I was so dehydrated
they put four and a half liters. I still wasn't -- it usually perks people up, but I was
just totally gone. I was close to being hospitalized.

Q. Have you seen a doctor other than this trainer or been to a hospital?

CORINA MORARIU: Oh, yeah.

Q. I mean, the last couple of days?

CORINA MORARIU: No, I have just seen these doctors here. We know what is wrong with me.
So, it is not a question of what is wrong with me. It is more of just getting my strength
back. And, anytime you have an infection, kidney infection, it is difficult to do
anything, really. It drains you and it makes you weak. So, I had a long match on Tuesday
and then Wednesday I had a tough first set and I was just so tired and weak. I couldn't go
any further. I mean, I went another set and a half, but after the first set was when I
really started feeling bad.

Q. What do you have to do to get rid of this? How come this hasn't gone away?

CORINA MORARIU: Well, I mean, I was treated. I was on antibiotics, but only for about a
week. And, you usually need to go three weeks of antibiotics to cure the infection. So
that is why I came back. And then I had -- I was in the hospital last Monday getting a
test done and they saw what was wrong with me. They figured it out. Then they -- I started
taking antibiotics maybe last Wednesday, but it still takes a while to get over it. And,
if you are not resting - which I wasn't - I was kind of trying to play a little bit here
and there. I was at a stalemate, kind of just staying the same. I wasn't getting any
better. So, it just -- you just need rest and antibiotics and playing isn't really
conducive to getting better, to getting healthy.

Q. You were playing doubles while Lilia was playing in the stadium singles?

CORINA MORARIU: Yeah.

Q. So you weren't able to see any of her match, right?

CORINA MORARIU: No.

Q. Have you talked to her or seen her?

CORINA MORARIU: No.

Q. Are you two friends or you just --

CORINA MORARIU: Yeah, I mean, we are friends, yeah, she stayed at my house for the
Continental Cup in December, so, yeah. I couldn't talk to her after the match, after our
singles match, obviously, because I wasn't really talking to anybody. And, I haven't
really seen her. I saw her coach there morning which was funny.

Q. You are smiling. Why? 

CORINA MORARIU: It was just funny because he said something funny during our match
which was -- it was 3-Love in the first set and -- no, sorry in the second set. She was up
3-Love and I was really tired at that point. He was telling her that I couldn't handle it.
He was going: "She can't handle it." I thought that was kind of funny.

Q. Did you joke about that?

CORINA MORARIU: I was really sick. No, I saw him this morning, I didn't say anything. I
just thought it was funny. I don't know him, so, I mean, if I knew him, I would probably
have said something. But, I don't know him, so, I didn't say anything, but it was kind of
funny.

Q. Because I watched a lot of your match that day and it did seem like there was
something wrong other than the usual --

CORINA MORARIU: Right.

Q. -- Being affected by the heat --

CORINA MORARIU: Yeah. No, there was definitely something wrong. It was just hard
because I asked to play on Tuesday and then I asked again to play on Thursday, to have a
day off; at least play doubles, and it couldn't -- they couldn't because I was on the
bottom half. Then I had a tough first set and I was just feeling nauseous the whole time
and I couldn't drink which was a huge problem. Just getting weak and dizzy and I was so
weak I honestly couldn't get up off the chair. I was thinking in the last game I just-- I
barely had the strength to serve and I was just trying to keep going and try to put as
much effort as I could into it. But, it was like I was spaced out and I was a million
miles away. Just when you are feeling that bad, it is more survival. I was fighting not to
pass out and then trying to fight to win the match. But, that was lost.

Q. How difficult was it to play doubles today thinking that it could have been you
playing in the stadium?

CORINA MORARIU: Oh, I didn't even think about that. I really didn't think about that. I
mean, now -- I didn't even know she was playing until you told me. (Laughs) So, I can't
think about it. It is just something unfortunate that happened and I had a good chance to
win and it was a tough match and -- but it could have gone either way, I think. It was
just unfortunate and I was -- I was lucky actually to get through my first match really
because I was feeling really tired in the second set. Somehow, I dug down and relied on my
reserve. And, pulled through that. But, I was feeling twice as bad the next day and I just
had no energy. I was trying to say, "It is the U.S. Open," but there is nothing
you can do. Your body is telling you to stop and there was nothing else I could do. It was
difficult for me to play today, period. But, I was fine. I actually felt better than I
thought I would. I was feeling good and feeling pretty healthy and it was cloudy too,
which was nice, doubles you don't have to move around so much so, that helped me out a
little bit too. Probably helped me out a lot.

Q. What is next for you? Are you going to get rid of this thing and take two weeks off?

CORINA MORARIU: Yeah, I am going to rest, yeah, for, you know, as long as I can -- as
long as I feel that I need to.

Q. Which is --

CORINA MORARIU: Who knows how long that could be.

Q. What is your next tournament?

CORINA MORARIU: I am scheduled to leave in about two weeks I think.

Q. To where?

CORINA MORARIU: To Tokyo and Surabaya. So, hopefully I can rest and now, I mean, I
think I should start getting better because I have been on antibiotics longer and
hopefully I am going to start getting healthier.

Q. Do you think you are cursed or something being this happening at the U.S. Open?

CORINA MORARIU: No. I knew there was a slight chance that it could possibly happen
because I had practiced maybe like five hours in the past like ten days or something
ridiculous like that. And, it had happened to me before, so I knew that it was a
possibility. I didn't think it would. I thought -- I was feeling pretty good. And, pretty
healthy, but it was just unfortunate that I had to play two days in a row and had like I
played those three tough sets, both all tiebreakers, and then after that against Lilia, I
just conked out. But, I was lucky to have that extra day of rest because any to play
tomorrow -- I mean, yesterday, I wouldn't have made it. . There is no way. But, luckily I
had an extra day and doubles is a lot easier. I was thinking if I was playing singles,
there is no way I would be able to be out here. But doubles is a little bit easier and my
partner was good. She was running around for me. It was nice.

Q. Speaking of singles, you played Lucic very closely.

CORINA MORARIU: Yeah, in Croatia, in Bol.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about her game?

CORINA MORARIU: She is -- it is hard for me to find words to describe it. She is an
unbelievable player. She is really, really talented and so young and so strong and hits
the ball so hard and deep and we had a really close match. But, I think she is going to be
a great player. I think top 10, for sure.

Q. When do you think that will be?

CORINA MORARIU: I don't know. But, I think she is the best -- besides Hingis, she is
probably the best young player I have seen. I think -- yeah, I think she is one of the
best young players I have seen. I have never seen somebody at 15, 5' 11" hit the ball
so hard.

Q. People are comparing her court presence to Hingis's as far as being calm and knowing
what to do with the ball; not just blasting away. Did you see that when you played her,
and almost beat her? It was 7-5 in the third.

CORINA MORARIU: 7-5 in the third set tiebreaker. So, it was just a couple of points
difference. Her presence on the court is -- I mean, she is very calm and very mature. And,
I was surprised. I thought when we were playing in Croatia maybe she was young, immature,
might crack a little bit here and there. But, she dealt with the pressure so well, and I
think she maybe doesn't have has many dimensions to her game as Hingis does. She is more
of just a baseliner. But, she hits the ball so well and so hard that she just does it so
consistently that it is hard to say that -- she snows where to put the ball or it just
seems like she just hits and hits and hits and it just goes in all the time. (laughs). It
is just hard to compare her to Hingis. As far as court presence, yeah, she resembles
Hingis in that manner. But --

Q. So she hits the ball like Kournikova and like Hingis as far as Hingis's court
presence goes?

CORINA MORARIU: She probably hits the ball maybe like Mary Pierce or somebody like
that. She is just a heavy, heavy hitter and what else can I say? I mean, she is just a
phenomenal athlete.

Q. Did you talk to her after or before?

CORINA MORARIU: Yeah, I have spoken to her a few times since then. Sweet girl, speaks
English really, really well. I think she has got a great future for sure. She is already
16 in the world and she has played like three tournaments or something so, that is a
pretty good indication.

Q. Well, good luck with you and your health and your tennis.

CORINA MORARIU: Thank you.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT