U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 1995
Bob Murphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BOB MURPHY: After yesterday's discussion, I am surprised to be here, and I am sure you are surprised to see me, but it a very real circumstance when that front is moving into an area and whatnot that I just hurt.  And yesterday I was quite sure I wouldn't make it, and then yesterday afternoon I felt better and last night I knew that I would be able to play, so I am very lucky.  I worked out again this morning in the van and got ready to go and of course it got, you know, it got hot and humid and that really helps, that helps loosen you up.  So I played well... Sure did... Played well.  
 
BOB MURPHY: I said yesterday I told N.B.C. television today that this is precedent for me not playing a practice round at all and it happened in 1985 when on that occasion I was hurting, and I hadn't played any practice rounds and I finished second to Corey Pavin that week shooting a score that would have won at Colonial every year except the year that Corey beat me there.  In 1986 when I won the Canadian Open, same thing, we had very bad weather; cold, rain and I had to withdraw from the Pro-Am.  Even during that, and low and behold, I won the tournament.  So I think truthfully, I think that maybe not playing a practice round; not having seen all the conditions that we were going to face, maybe I went out there with a little better mental attitude.  Maybe I was a little bit more relaxed.  I certainly feel that way.  The greens were everything the guys talked about, and I played with Hale Irwin today and Hale played a very good round of golf, shot 72.  He never -- well, he did he made 2 putts all day, of any size at all.  First hole, I put it just in the fringe past  the hole and putted it down about two feet and made par.  Number 3, I hit a bad shot, pulled it just to the left in the high fringe and chipped it out about eight feet and made that for par; so that was a good saver there.  The next hole I hit it, let us see, number 4. 
 
BOB MURPHY: Number 4, I put it about 10 feet made birdie.  And number 8, again, about 10 feet I made birdie.  Number 10, I hit it about a foot and a half from the hole and never touched the cup.  Never touched the cup.  13, I hit a real good shot at 13; put it about two feet with a 6-iron and made that birdie and then at 16 the par 5, I made one of those triple bouncing jobbies from about 16 feet; so that was very lucky.  I thought I missed the putt four times, but it went in, that is what happens when you shoot 69.  It never happens when you shoot 76, so... 
 

Q.  Will there be a cumulative effect; do you expect to feel better tomorrow? 
 
BOB MURPHY: Yeah, I will.  As long as -- when the front moves I am prettier.  No, I am better.  I feel better, yeah, I do. 
 

Q.  I meant from the wear and tear of walking the golf course.
 
BOB MURPHY: Oh, no, I walk all the time; so that doesn't bother me at all.  As a matter of fact, that helps.  That is what helped me the last couple of days going out and walking the golf course and thinking about what I had to do and where I was going to go and what I wanted to do; what I intended to do and in a lot of cases today, I put it right where I envisioned it and so... 
 

Q.  So your practice was actually walking around?
 
BOB MURPHY: Right. 
 

Q.  Watching; looking at the course?
 
BOB MURPHY: Right, watching other guys; watching where they drove it, for instance, because you want to form a picture in my mind where the ball is going to land so I can work it into that area, and I watched various guys Raymond and some of the guys; watched where they hit it; so it gives me very good ideas as to how the golf course was going to play. 
 

Q.  Have you ever practiced that way before?
 
BOB MURPHY: Yeah, I just said in 1985 at  Colonial and 1986 at Canada when I won the Canadian Open for the same reasons that I just felt badly, and I didn't want to go out and -- if I go out and play a practice round, and I hit it poorly, and I drive it into a rough and I miss the greens and I put it into the bunkers, imagine what kind of attitude I would have teeing off, and I didn't do that; I didn't do that.  (Larry Laoretti enters interview room.)  Okay, linguini, you are next. 
 
LARRY LAORETTI:  How come you have green slacks on today? 
 
BOB MURPHY: I usually wear my -- like Chi Chi says -- I usually wear green slacks on Sunday because it is the color of money.  Today, I thought I better get a head start. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT