ROLAND GARROS
June 5, 2014
Anna-Lena Groenefeld
Jean-Julien Rojer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 GROENEFELD‑ROJER/Goerges‑Zimonjic
      4‑6, 6‑2, 10‑7 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   I guess it's your first Grand Slam title.   How do you feel about winning it?   
    JEAN‑JULIEN ROJER:   I'm very excited.   Very happy.   Prior to this I made I think four semifinals, but I was never even in the finals before.  
    Yesterday we had an amazing match.   Very up and down and saved some match points.   That was very exciting.  
    Then today quite similar match.   Lost the first set but then we kept fighting.   Yeah, just very happy to win.   I think it's quite important to do well in these events.   
   
 Q.   Anna‑Lena, you had the experience before of winning a Grand Slam title.   Do you think that helped you?   Also, what words did you have with Jean‑Julien before the match to get well prepared?  
    ANNA‑LENA GROENEFELD:   Well, I think it's always different.   It's now five years since my last one in Wimbledon, and it's just as exciting this time around.   So maybe it helped a little bit, but, I don't know.   
    It was still in the end, you know, you're there and you're like, Oh, my God, it's match point.   I'm very happy how we finished the match.   Before we went out on court we talked about that we wanted to play our game, be aggressive, and I think we were always very positive.   
    We never letdown, even after we lost the first set.   We just kept going, and it paid off in the end.  
   
 Q.   It's the first time you've played together?  
    ANNA‑LENA GROENEFELD:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   How did you end up playing together?   How did that happen?  
    ANNA‑LENA GROENEFELD:   Well, actually, I was asking around.   No one wanted to play with me, and then he said yes.   I was like, Yeah (smiling).   
    So, yeah, it worked out really well in the end.   I'm looking forward to play more with him.  
   
 Q.   Why did you say yes?  
    JEAN‑JULIEN ROJER:   Because I knew she was very ‑‑I mean, a quality player, of course.   I was actually set with someone else.   I had to tell that person no.   
    Yeah, I wanted to give it a shot.   Also in the summer we are going to be on the same team and probably playing together, as well, so it was nice to have the opportunity to play now also.   
    Then now we get to play Wimbledon, as well.   Then later in the summer, also.   
    Yeah, it was quite an easy decision for me at the end.   
   
 Q.   How did that start?   I mean, your first practice together did things go well?   Because sometimes it's tough to figure out the chemistry, you know, in a doubles team.   
    ANNA‑LENA GROENEFELD:   Well, I think just from the beginning, I mean, when we stepped on court, we are both very positive on the court.   Even if we make an easy mistake, it's always next point, and I think that really helps.  
    We had great chemistry on court.   Felt very good with each, I think.   So, yeah.   
    JEAN‑JULIEN ROJER:   We actually didn't have a first practice, I don't think.   
    ANNA‑LENA GROENEFELD:   We just went on court.   
    JEAN‑JULIEN ROJER:   We went on court, yeah.  
    But I thought we played a good match there.  
    Then after that, we got to warm up together before the matches and stuff.   
    But also, I think in the same event that we play in the summer now, I have played against Anna‑Lena also a few times there.   So I think I obviously knew her and how she plays a little bit, yeah.   
   
 Q.   On court you mentioned you had to refuse an offer to team up with another player.   Who was that?   
    JEAN‑JULIEN ROJER:   I'd rather not say.   I'd rather not say.   But also a very nice player and a good friend of mine.   So I hope she understands, especially now.   But I apologized like 18 times to her (smiling).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT