AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2018
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/K. Siniakova   
4-6, 6-2, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What was the key to surviving that one?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Tough to say.  It was second and third set was 6-2, 6-1, but I felt like it was 7-6, you know, in the third or 8-6 in the third.  It was very tough for me today.   
Not feeling great and was not focused on the right things, so, yeah, that's why it made it tougher for myself.   
 Q.  Has it been an issue for you in terms of how you were feeling?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't know.  It was just a little bit of everything.  I didn't feel good and, yeah, hopefully I can recover and be ready for next match.   
 Q.  Has this been a problem all week?  Have you been feeling ill?  Was it just today?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I was couple of days, you know, just tried to recover and be ready for each match, because, you know, it's only couple of hours that I have to spend on court.  Just, you know, really focused.   
I had some issues before the start of the -- it was like big question that I'm going to step on court for my first round.   
Yeah, so hopefully, you know, I have a day off tomorrow.  I will try to recover and, yeah, be ready.   
 Q.  Is it a flu you were feeling?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No.  It was, like (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Are you worried for the rest of the tournament?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I'm relieved that I won today.  In the end, you know, it doesn't give me the opportunity to play well.  I played good tennis in the first match, so, you know, you never know.  It's a new day what's, you know, the day is gonna bring.  Maybe tomorrow I gonna feel better and gonna feel better for my third round.  Of course I'm looking forward for that match, and, you know, not every day in the third round, you don't have these opportunities.   
Yeah, just hopefully my team is going to do everything to make me ready.  I have, still, hours to prepare, so, you know, I don't want to, you know, to put this in my head and just take one hour at a time.   
 Q.  You next play someone from your country who's probably the youngest player from Ukraine you will ever play so far.  How long have you known about her?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, first time I heard about her when she won here.  You know, it's good, it's pretty cool that I'm playing someone from my country.  Yeah, it's gonna be very exciting for me and hopefully, you know, I can, yeah, be ready for that match.   
You know, it's not every day that, you know, I can play someone who's from my country.  And especially for Ukrainian supporters it's going to be fun to watch, I guess.   
Yeah, it's pretty cool.   
 Q.  What do you know about her game?  Have you ever practiced with her or played with her?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, I didn't practice, because, you know, it's like her second women's tournament in her life.  No, I didn't really know her before.   
I little bit watched her first round.  You know, she has nothing to lose, so that's why I know she goes just for everything.  You know, like a little bit like headless chicken.   
You know, we'll see.  I will try to prepare and, yeah, be ready for her game.  For me it's very important for me to be there with my game and don't really think who is in the other, who's in the other side.   
You know, I have been playing like this for almost one year and a half, so, you know, it's not gonna change for my next match, as well.   
 Q.  Do you think it's kind of a big deal for your home country or in your home country that you play your next opponent from your country?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I think media makes -- it's kind of a big deal, but as I already said, for me, it's just another match.  She's the opponent who's gonna play against me, and she's gonna produce some good tennis, so I will be ready for it and, yeah, just take it as a next match.   
 Q.  What do you remember about yourself as a tennis player when you were 15?  Where would you have been?  It's obviously very fast for her to be at this level.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't remember much, because I think I didn't play much of the professional, like, maybe couple of 25,000s.  I won juniors, Roland Garros juniors, when I was 15.  You know, yeah -- yeah, I don't remember much.  I have short memory (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT