BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 6, 2018
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/K. Pliskova   
7-5, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Thank you.   
 Q.  How happy were you to finish off in two and the up and down at the end there?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, you know, this match was up and down from the beginning.   
And, yeah, I was, of course, very happy that I could finish the match, especially after the challenge, you know, when I already thought that I won the match.  And then, yeah, it was tough.   
 Q.  Did you ever see that -- never mind.  Go ahead.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: What?   
 Q.  Did you ever see that video of the girls' final at Wimbledon where there's like four challenges on match point?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah.  Yeah, I saw that.  I didn't think about it but...   
 Q.  You're not close to that yet.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: But, you know, you always learn that you have to play next ball and next ball and next ball.  So that's why, you know, it's important.   
 Q.  How do you think you changed things around after the first four games?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I just tried to really stay focused on what I have to do, to don't really change, you know, my game plan.   
Of course, I was missing a lot.  There was lots of unforced errors.  But in the end, I didn't really change the way I was playing.   
I just started to play more aggressive and, you know, just more composed.  And this was what brought me back into the game and started to be really focused on my game.   
 Q.  You did a pretty good job of not letting her dictate to you.  After those first four games, it seemed pretty 50/50.  If not -- you were kind of moving her around.  Was that kind of the biggest difference between the start and the rest of the match?  Just kind of pushing into the court a little bit more?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I think, you know, that's why it was better because I started to put even more pressure.  Because I was putting pressure, but, you know, I was missing, and there was, you know, like easy for her.  Because, you know, top player, you cannot do this kind of mistakes.   
So when I started finally to put the ball into the court and, you know, be together with my brain and body, then everything came back into the right place.   
 Q.  No one likes a slow start but against Konta and now against Pliskova, two kind of comeback wins.  How much of a confidence boost is that especially for it being the first week of the season, first few matches that you were able to find that ability to turn it around?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course, this is great thing to have at the beginning of the year that I really fight back and play my way, which is very important.   
And, you know, to have consistency in the game, that's what I'm looking for when I go on the court.  And, you know, to have this throughout the season, this is my main goal for this season.  And, yeah, that's pretty much it.   
 Q.  How much do you know about Sasnovich and what do you expect from that match?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Actually, I know her pretty well, you know, because we started juniors playing the same time.  And then, you know, I always knew her because she's from Belarus and that's pretty close to Ukraine.  So I know her game and I know the way she plays.  I know she's having terrific week here.  But tomorrow is another final for me.  For her, first time.   
So, yeah, it's going to be great match and I'm going to try to recover first and then see how it goes tomorrow.  You know, I still have some time.   
 Q.  It's a good feeling being in a stage of your career where you can rely on experience at some level that you have been in these bigger finals a lot now?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Hopefully.  We'll see tomorrow.   
Well, of course, you know, I played a lot of finals already at this particular stage of the tournaments.  And, yeah, you know, I have the experience, but then I need to be there tomorrow to use it and to give myself a chance to play well.  And, yeah, just be out there 100%.   
 Q.  This is another tournament which shows a deeper level of women's tennis right now.  I'm wondering what is your thought about the change to 16 seeds, if you have any thought about.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I know I heard about that they are thinking about it.  I don't know if it's confirmed.   
 Q.  For next year.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: For next year.  Well, you know, as I already mentioned, in the Grand Slams it's from the first start, even if you're playing someone who is 19 in the world, you know, they can damage you.  You know, they can play one amazing match, you know, which is amazing and they beat you, and then they lose next round.   
And it happens.  In women's tennis it can happen because, you know, not everyone is consistent and the weeks happen like this.   
So 16 seeds, you know, yeah, maybe it's going to be a little bit more dangerous for top players, but, you know, to win the Grand Slam you have to beat everyone.  So I don't know.   
 Q.  I have a very random question to ask you but have you ever actually swung a cricket paddle at a ball?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Okay.  When you do, do you swing right-handed or do you swing like a backhand?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No.  I swing like a backhand, of course.  Yeah.  Forehand, no.  Because, yeah, forehand, it's too heavy.  The bat is too heavy.   
 Q.  Even with two hands.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Two hands is okay.  But I've been told that if you wear the gloves it seems much lighter, but I was doing without.  I was doing with and without and, yeah, there is a difference.   
So, yeah, I hit like a backhand.  I'm actually not bad.  I just cannot hit like this (indicating) to block.  But I can swing.  I already said to my coach that if I would be a cricketer, I would hit six only.   
 Q.  Have you ever talked to Ash Barty about cricket?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT