ROGERS CUP
August 12, 2017
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/S. Halep
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You've said that thinking too much about that match against Simona in Paris would have sent you to the crazy house.  I'm curious if this win tonight means you'll never have to think about that match again?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course.  You know, in Paris it was very difficult to have that lose, but I think it also was the experience.
So that's why, from the first point today till the last point, I was very focused and I was just 100% on every ball.  And I think, yeah, I just learned.  I learned from that experience that, you know, you need to play until the last point and, you know, just one point at a time.
Q. So at the French Open when you lost, I think 7-6 in the second, and today you're going out there thinking, I can't be nervous.  I can't be nervous.  I have to do it right all the time, yeah?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No.  There will be nerves anyway because, you know, this kind of situation you don't want it to happen again.
There will be nerves, but that's how you need to -- you need to try to manage them and to put them in the right direction.  You know, to don't push the ball, you know, go for the shots and move your feet quickly.
Because, you know, every player is different, but you need to know what happens with you when you are very stressed.  So I try to learn this from the experience I had before, not only in Paris but also matches before.  And, yeah, learn how to manage the nerves.  It's very important.
Q. So this year it seems like you've been playing much better.  Just talk about 2017.
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, 2017 been amazing year for me.  When I was training during the offseason, I was not really thinking about goals in general.  I was just trying to improve.  I try to work as hard as I could, and, you know, learn something every day.
Starting with a new team, it gave me this push and gave me a new view on the game.
So, you know, it's just small details.  That's what made a big difference.
Q. Venus, Garbiñe, Halep, lots of big-name wins for you this week.  Does it feel like a big step up?
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's just a step in the right direction.  I was working for it before coming here.  And I think I'm playing a good level and just I tried to work for big matches.  And very happy that it could happen here.
And, you know, during this year I also played lots of good matches, like, big ones.  So, yeah, it's very positive.
Q. You were saying on the court earlier you didn't bring a second dress in the morning.  Why was that?  What was your thinking?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I sat down and yesterday was very late.  So I got back to the hotel, like, at 12:00 and then went to sleep at 1:00.  I didn't really think about it.  And the hotel is not so far so, you know.
I was just -- I just thought, yeah, I'm just going to think about this match first and give it everything what I have.  And then, you know, to have this in the end of the day, you know, when I was waking up, one set down in quarterfinal and then winning four sets.  Just feeling very relieved.
But, yeah, the funniest thing is that yesterday I had already tickets to fly to Cincinnati.  So that's why, you know, because it's very difficult to get to Cincinnati and there's no tickets.  That's why we needed to get them, but now we need to change them.  I think it's a good problem to have.
Q. You'll play Caroline in the final tomorrow, rematch of the Dubai final.  You're actually undefeated in Premier 5 tournaments.  I'm curious what your game plan will be going into that match.
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's going to be a final, another final this year.  And I'm going to think about just as next opponent, my next match.
Of course, she's having a good year as well.  She's injury-free and playing really good.  So it's going to be a good match.  I know this.
And I will try to recover quickly because it was very tough day today, not only physically but also mentally, you know, to stay focused all the time.  And, you know, winning in straight sets was quite tough.
So that's why I need some time to think, to analyze this day today, and then move into the final tomorrow, which is already very soon.
Q. You mentioned that having a new team sort of has given you a different view of the game.  Could you just talk about some of those changes?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, every coach has a different view on the game.  And it was very interesting to hear the opinion on the team I'm working now.
And, you know, I'm a person who really analyze a lot and was, yeah, very interesting to see.  Because I was been working with Iain for two-and-a-half years.  It's been really -- we did lots of big steps forwards.  And, you know, at that time I just thought I need something fresh and, yeah, just changed couple of things.
You know, it's going to be awesome or it's going to be bad.  It's always like this.  Because I had a very good year in 2016.  Finished it very strong.  It was a big risk, but I took it and I got rewarded.  So for me it's very, very positive thing.
Q. So what have you improved?  Is it your forehand, your backhand, your serve?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I think everything little bit, but I think probably people should answer who was watching my game.
Q. But you yourself.  What is better over the last six months?  What do you feel has improved?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think I'm more consistent with my game.  With the mental part is also a very stable.  Yeah, it's just the small things.  Small details.  I cannot really pick one thing that changed.
My mentality, I have changed a little bit my mentality on tennis, on my game.  So I'm just -- don't know.  Just a different person.  You know, I'm 22 years old, so I'm always changing.  And I see some things differently than, like, one year ago, two years ago.
So, yeah, just something clicked together and it's working.  And hopefully it will be working for couple years.
Q. When you won Rome, which is a huge place, were you thinking, Okay, I can win a Grand Slam now?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Of course Grand Slam is the main goal.  These kind of tournaments, they're also very important because they give you this confidence and give you this push to play better and this confidence as well to play in a Grand Slam.
But the Grand Slam is little bit different because you have different pressure.  So you need to prepare a little bit different for those kind of tournaments.
Q. Good result.  The first time in the final.  Can you say that at the moment you're playing the best tennis for this year?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No.  I'm not playing the best tennis because I've been playing great in Dubai.  I've been playing great in Rome.
So this tournament is -- there have been not so good moments which were not so happy with my game, but, you know, I found a way to go through this tough moments.
But I would think that I was playing much better in Dubai, even Roland Garros was better.  But it's a different situation.  It's a final.  So you never know what is going to happen.
Q. And what helps you to stay fit and concentrated?
ELINA SVITOLINA: My team probably.  All the people who's around me.  They are -- you know, they know the plays.  Everything is quite clear in our team.  Everyone knows what to do, what is the best for me.
And, yeah, they really make me feel confident on court, off court.  And, yeah, for me it's very important to have a team who gives you confidence.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT