BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 27, 2017
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/S. Halep   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  After the week you have had, how much did the win today mean to you to come through with a win?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course it means a lot.  I was coming with this match today, I had nothing to lose, and I was playing for my fans and for the people who were supporting me during all this week.  You know, I had very good support, lots of people with Ukrainian flags.  Is not always happens, screaming and cheering me.  Those guys, as well, who's back in Ukraine who were supporting me this week.  You know, it means a lot to me, and I was playing today for them.   
 Q.  Just the last 48 hours from when you were sitting up there the last time until now, what has it been like to kind of process your tournament but also know that you did have an opportunity to kind of just play in a relaxed way?  What was the key to kind of getting yourself maybe out of the mindset from that day into the one that took the court today?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I didn't really do anything special.  Just prepared for another match.  It was very, very tough.  It was tough to come back after -- you know, I didn't really -- unexpected, but I was sad with the way I played this week.   
It was, of course, much better today.  It was different, different match and, yeah, just was trying to just to play one point at a time.  And for me was last match of the season and I knew this, and just was trying, yeah, to get the win.   
 Q.  Did you feel that perhaps in the first two matches and especially because of the format you'd maybe lost a little bit of perspective, and then today you just refound yourself?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't know.  For me, I was just trying to, as I said, you know, play for one point at a time and play for the fans that were there, you know.  I couldn't just go there and do, like, lose or don't do anything.  I needed to do something today.  I just tried to play the right way, the right thing what I have to do to beat Simona, and it worked today.   
You know, as we can see, this tournament is tricky tournament, because, you know, you can lose the match and then come back and play in semifinals.   
So it happens, and we are all humans.  You know, we can lose, we can lose our way.  Yeah, it's tricky, but, you know, you need to be ready for these kind of weeks and for this kind of tournament.   
So everyone is in the same condition.  Who is ready the most will succeed in this week.  Probably now I was not ready enough or the other girls were more ready than me.  It happens.  You know, I need to think what I did wrong, and then if I have the opportunity to come back here and play again, I will probably do something different.  Hopefully I will have this opportunity to come back.   
 Q.  Obviously if you have another fantastic season like you had this year, you'll get another shot at it.  Karolina Pliskova said that she felt much better coming in this year because she kind of had an idea what to expect with the round robin.  So do you think you will come back a lot stronger if you come back?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, hopefully.  This is all experience.  She played here a couple of years already.  Simona played also here for four years.   
It happens.  You know, one year is like this; one year is the other way.  So you cannot really predict what is going to happen.   
Yeah, each match is a story, you know.  So every story has a different scenario.   
 Q.  Talking of scenarios, your win has put Garcia at the top of the group.  So we asked her is she going to take you out for a drink or a meal to say thank you.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I think I'm expecting more than a drink.  Sorry (smiling).   
 Q.  So what are you expecting Caroline to...  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Because we also played in Beijing, and she worked really hard for it, but still, you know, I'm waiting (smiling).   
 Q.  Handbag, shopping?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't know.  No, you know, when I went onto the court to play match, I didn't think -- you know, this sport is individual sport, and, yeah, she did her best.  She won today.  She did her best.  I did my best.  I also played for, yeah, for my ranking points, for the fans, for everyone who was out there who was supporting me.   
And for myself, of course, to finish the year on a good note, for me, it was also very important match to finish with a good mindset that I can go in the offseason and work, you know, and see what I did good and still, you know, be very positive.  You know, there is lots of things I can take out of this week.   
 Q.  You have now beaten Simona three out of your last four meetings, and obviously the fourth time you were quite close to beating her, as well.  What is it about her game that you perhaps like on the court or something that matches up really well with you?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't know.  I mean, there is no such a thing as a comfortable player on tour, you know, especially on this tournament.  Everyone has a different style of playing.   
I mean, it's very tough to say what's matches -- I play each time, you know, I play different.  She plays differently.  We always -- each team try to find the small things maybe on this surface or with these kind of balls is gonna work against each player.   
So, I mean, each time is something different.  That's my feeling, and I try to, yeah, to find the way.   
Sometimes maybe you think that it's gonna work but it's not working.  So in a match you need to try to find different way.  That's why now probably we have  on-court coaching, you know.   
 Q.  Looking back on your season, I know before the tournament you said and we have discussed before how throughout your career it's been step by step, every year was better, there were improvements every year.  Does 2017 feel like a big step for you, or does it feel like, for you, that this was the next logical step, if that makes sense?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: There have been some amazing matches.  There have been some tough matches.  I cannot say this year have been, you know, amazing.  It's been, as you said, probably the step that put me through to the top of the players, not players but the top of the maybe -- I don't know how you say.   
Yeah, so I have been No. 3 in the world, so now I'm a little bit lower, but still, you know, it's experience, and for me it was very important.  It was very important this kind of step, and probably those kind of losses will help me in the future in some kind of situations, I'm sure.   
And I learn a lot from this year.  There was a lot of good memories.  There have been some learning, as well.   
So, yeah, but in general, of course, it's been a huge step forward for me, and especially my game.  I think everyone saw that I improved a lot.   
Yeah, it was like a solid performance this year.  Of course there would be some tough losses, but you cannot be unbeaten.   
 Q.  I'm curious what your plans were for the offseason and preseason, if you've thought that far ahead yet.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I'm going to train in London for a bit, because I just moved there.  And then I'm going to train in Paris, as well, because of my coach, obviously.  Gonna spend time there.   
 Q.  The fan question is now that it's the offseason, what dessert or cheap meal that you're looking forward to indulging in the most.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I'm looking forward to get my apartment and put the furniture in my apartment (smiling).  That's gonna be a treat, because I'm going to run around London searching for furniture, the right furniture, because I really enjoy furniture shopping and choosing the right things for my place, my new place.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT