BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 23, 2017
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. WOZNIACKI/E. Svitolina   
6-2, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think made the difference today versus previous meetings with her?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, it was completely different, you know, conditions.  Always played on a little bit faster court.  This court is very, very slow.  Today I completely lost my rhythm after, you know, couple of games and was, you know, all over the place.  Was feeling very, very bad on court today.   
Yeah, was just not feeling anything today, actually.  You know, days like this happens, and I was trying to fight, you know, to trying to find the way, but unfortunately anything was working today, and it's very, very sad that it's happen, you know, in this tournament, because for me, of course, I want to play good here.  I want to be at my best, but unfortunately today, you know, was not -- yeah, was terrible day for me.   
 Q.  It's been a tough couple of days for players like yourself playing on this court in a match for the first time.  Do you come away from this match maybe understanding how the court works a little bit better that you can apply it for your next match?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course I will try to analyze, try to go through the match and, you know, try to find what I did wrong, maybe in preparation, maybe something else.  But to be, you know, to be fair, Caroline was playing really good.  Was serving very, very good.  You know, all the credit to her, because I think it's one of the best matches she played when I was playing against her.   
She was very, very solid today.  You know, I played very bad match.  So for me it's very -- yeah, I'm very disappointed with the performance today.   
 Q.  Did you notice, did she do anything different tactically-wise than in your previous meetings?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, I didn't really notice.  But, you know, my game was all over the place today, so, you know, she didn't really had to do anything special because I was doing lots of unforced errors.  I was missing the court by miles.   
So it was -- yeah, it's very tough to say, because she played, I think, always well and always very solid in all our meetings, but before, you know, I was, you know, playing good, playing lots of balls back, and, you know, making lots of winners, as well.  Today I was doing lots of mistakes, and it didn't help to find the rhythm.  So, yeah, that's what's was happening today.   
 Q.  Obviously the benefit is that you get to come back and have another crack or cracks at it.  Mentally, how do you sort of make that adjustment?  Obviously any other tournament you'd be on your way home or shopping by now.  How do you make that adjustment?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course I will try just to, you know, forget this day and play my next match like nothing happen, you know, to try to really take good things and try to -- there is not so many good things today, but still, you know, I try to, you know, to find the way to come back (smiling).   
I'm sure it's going to be better, because I'm going to be used to the court and be better and, you know, I will adjust quicker for the next match.   
Yeah, I'll just try to go next match and do my best.  You know, this match today, very tough to say what was happening, because it was, like, probably the worst match I played from my side in couple of years.   
Yeah, I try to don't think about this.  I mean, I have no choice to just think about my next match (smiling).   
 Q.  It's a different-looking court, as well, in addition to just the surface.  You know, it's dark all around, we're back indoors, all these sorts of things.  Do you think that as you walked out, did it just feel like a very different tournament than a typical tournament you have played throughout the season?  And if that's the case, do you think it had an impact, just not being able to find your bearings on the court?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Of course it feels very different tournament, because from the first match, you're playing a very good player and you need to be ready for these kind of matches.   
For me, everyone is in the same situation.  So, you know, I cannot say that I was not ready.  I was ready.  But today was just, with my tennis, I just was not there.   
I cannot really say, you know, that I was too stressed because it was not the case.   
 Q.  I mean, obviously you played for Ukraine a lot for Fed Cup, and that's a similar-ish competition, you play your matches, if you win or lose you play the next day.  Is any of that experience, do you think, something that can maybe help you going forward in this tournament?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, this kind of match I think can be similar.  But for me I think still, you know, this tournament, because you are playing alone, it's a bit different.  I just will try to, you know, to regroup, try to relax, and, you know, don't think so much about the bad day.   
You know, it happens, and you cannot really do anything about it.  You know, I still have, what, two hours maybe of this day, 23rd of October (smiling).  Then it's gonna be 24th and going to be new day.  You're gonna have new chances to make it better.   
And, yeah, just life goes on, and, yeah, just move forward.   
 Q.  Speaking of moving forward, Caroline Garcia next for you on Wednesday.  Can you talk...  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, I play Halep.   
 Q.  No.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No?   
 Q.  No.  It's Woz/Halep on Wednesday.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Garcia?   
 Q.  Garcia.  Sorry.  Since you have obviously thought about this match a lot (laughter) I'm going to ask you for your thoughts on it.  But thoughts on playing Caroline, obviously the tough match in Beijing, could have gone either way.  But what are your thoughts on what to expect on Wednesday on this surface and these conditions?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I didn't prepare for this (smiling).   
Yeah, she was quite a tough match.  But, you know, in that match I could win the match four or five times maybe in the second set.  Third set, I had my chances.  I lost, you know, in the tough battle because she was playing really good.  But in the same time I had lots and lots of chances to finish the match, and of course I took some things that I would need to use on Wednesday to be ready to compete against her and to beat her.   
So, yeah, I will try to do my best to prepare, and, you know, be ready for the fight and for the tough game.  I'm sure it's gonna be a good game.  And, yeah, we will be ready.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT