U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2017
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/S. Rogers   
6-4, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Started to get a little tricky in the end.  Curious how relieved you are to have gotten it done in two sets?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, it was a bit tricky ending.  You know, I was a bit lucky in the end, but then, you know, also got net cord against me.   
Of course it was luckier, I would say this, but, yeah, it was very good level of tennis in the end of second set and the crowd was behind her.  It was tricky, but I was very happy I could handle it, because it was, like, four or five very tough games.   
Yeah, I was happy that it's all finished.  Yeah, was happy with the performance.   
 Q.  What's it like having to play against a crowd who is so behind your opponent?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, of course I know that they are behind her, but in the same time, you know, also gives you pressure.   
So I don't really think about it so much.  I try to take, you know, one point at a time, to really fight, to go for my shots, and, you know, just think about myself.   
 Q.  What pleased you most about the way you played today?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think I was serving pretty good.  I was reacting, because she was, you know, striking the ball pretty good like she always does.   
I was expecting this, and I was trying to really react quick and be ready for her shots.  I handled it well.   
You know, finishing in two sets, it's very good for me, because last two matches we played, it was three sets.  Even in Brisbane, last time we played, you know, it was 7-6, I think, in the third set.   
I was trying to stay really focused and fight for, you know, for every ball.   
 Q.  When she's a big ball striker like that, do you think it's important your athleticism, your speed about the court, is that important?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course it's important, but it's always there.  You know, that's my game.  I always bring my intensity and not -- try to challenge the player.  That's the way I play.   
Yeah, it's part of me.   
 Q.  There was real ebb and flow in the second set.  She was up 2-Love.  You came back, and then, you know, went up to 5-All.  Tell what your emotions were as you were looking at the way that second set went.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Of course it was pretty tough, but I didn't really do much wrong.  She started to strike very good.  All credit to her, because she didn't give the match.  You know, she was going for her shots, trying to do something different, because 5-2 down, you know, and I was really playing well.   
She didn't have much chance at that time.  Then she was trying to earn her moment, and she did.  And then the crowd start to go behind her.  You know, she got fired up a little bit.   
You know, it just went a little bit her way, but I was there.  I was trying to stay really focused for my next -- to be really clear for my next things what I have to do.  It worked really good.   
 Q.  She just played a really long match in the last round.  I'm curious if you were aware of that and if that put extra pressure on you or that you wanted to start the match really well and maybe get yourself in front right away.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course I knew.  You know, it's amazing what she did.  She went through that match.   
Of course it was the part of my plan to play as many balls as I can, you know, try to chase every ball.  But, you know, I always do that, so it was not a big surprise for me, not something different what I would do.   
For the rest, I was trying to, you know, to fight for everything and just really push her to go for more.  It worked.   
 Q.  Do you like the challenge of a match like that where you're the overseas player, she's the home player, the crowd are all in favor of the home player?  Do you like that situation?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I like these kind of challenges.  You know, you live for these kind of moments when you want to, you know, to show people that you are there, you are a good player, you are good enough to beat not only a tennis player who is on that side, but also, you know, everyone, like, who is against you.   
So you want to prove them this, and I think it's great fun sometimes.  But of course it can be very painful if, you know, I would lose the second set, it would be really painful and I would need to earn that moment to, you know, to try to fight back again and to earn third set.   
But, yeah, sometimes it can be good, but sometimes it can play a bad game with you.   
 Q.  Vesnina or Keys next.  What are your thoughts on either of those matchups?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I played against Vesnina I think this year or Zhuhai last year, and I know how she plays.  Keys, I think I played one match against her long time ago.   
So I know the way they play.  And for me, yeah, I will just try to chill.  You know, I'm in second week of a Grand Slam, so I'm really, really proud of the performance I showed.  Played good matches.  Yeah, will try to do my best and prepare for next match.   
 Q.  Is there anything you have been able to do in New York on your off days or is it more just about conserving energy at this point in the tournament?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I did everything what I wanted to do before the tournament, because when you start the tournament, you really want to be focused on your matches, on your preparation.  Because even if it's a day off, you know, you want to save some energy to be ready for the fight, because you never know, you know.  It can be 7-6 in the third set or three-and-a-half hours.   
It can happen, so you need to be ready for everything.  That's why I try to really have day off, like, really calm and of course train but stay and chill.   
 Q.  What are some of the things you did before the tournament?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I was just walking around, see the city a little bit.  I went to the Rockefeller Center the first time for me, and this was my goal coming here, besides tennis, of course (smiling).   
And shopping a little bit.  That's pretty much it.   
 Q.  Was there anything in particular you bought when you went shopping?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Um, no.   
 Q.  Nothing at all?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's a bit personal (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT