U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2017
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/E. Rodina   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How was that experience out there on Arthur Ashe today?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: It was great.  It was, you know, always good to be on the biggest court.  It, yeah, was very, very -- I was very surprised that I was put on that court (smiling).   
 Q.  One of your first big matches on central court as a favorite.  Were there any nerves heading into the match?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Of course, there was a little bit nerves, you know.  I'm human so it's quite normal.   
It's a Grand Slam, as well, so it's quite normal for the players to have this and, you know, I'm not the first year on tour so I know how to handle it.   
 Q.  What did you make of the conditions out there?  It's a pretty unique court sometimes with the noise and everything.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Actually was fine, because the roof was open, because I heard that some players was a bit struggling with the noise.   
But for me it was fine.  You know, I was really focused on my game.  You know, really, really enjoyed playing there.   
It was a little bit tough because of the shadow on the court, but, yeah, it was, you know, still was very happy I could win.   
 Q.  You have had such a wonderful year so far.  Yesterday Zverev was here and he had a wonderful year and seemed like he had to fight those expectations.  How high were your expectations when you came to US Open especially with what happened in Roland Garros, as well?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, of course there will be expectations for all the top players.  It's quite normal to have this, and I would prefer to have on the top and have these kind of expectations than be somewhere out of top 20 or something and be -- to don't have that.   
So it's part of tennis, part of being there, and for me, I try to handle it.  I try to take this challenge and, you know, do something about it.   
 Q.  What has become so much better this year than was last year?  Kerber said in Stuttgart that you were a defensive player and never saw you like that.  What really has improved so much that you won six titles this year?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think everything has improved, you know, just my game in general, my mental part became better and I handled those big moments better.  Of course, there gonna be some tough ones, but, you know, I'm very happy the way I handled the pressure during this year, and, yeah, hope I can keep going.   
 Q.  Are you surprised or why do you think so many top women's players have already lost?  It's only Thursday and I think already four of the top seven players are out.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I know couple of them out.  But, you know, everyone are very hungry to win and to beat top players more than anything.   
You know, they had the hard matches, you know, all of them being three sets, I think.  It's normal, you know.  It happens.  Everyone is trying to beat everyone, so, you know, it can happen.  You need to take it how it is.   
 Q.  You have Shelby or Daria next, who you played doubles with.  Curious what you think of that matchup coming up.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I played against them both times this year.  I have good memories.  I know the way they play, and for me, it's gonna be just another match, you know, good opportunity to play my game and, you know, be there for a good moment.   
 Q.  There has been so many players who have complained the last few days about Maria Sharapova getting the wildcard or even yesterday complaints about she gets to be on the main court every time.  Why do you think there are so many complaints with the players about that?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: You know, for me, it's really tough to say.  Everyone has their own opinion.  It's quite normal.  For me, you know, I don't really care, you know, her case because I have my own path.  I have my own career.  You know, I need to really focus on that.  You know, I don't really want to think about some other players.   
 Q.  Do players generally complain about other players, or do they do like you do and kind of worry about themselves only?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't know.  It's tough to say from behalf of the other players, because I'm not really speaking, you know, like so much with everyone.  Of course I have some -- I have friends on tour, and I don't really like, you know, to be one of the, you know, just behind-the-back speaking.   
I prefer just to stay away, you know, like I have my career and that's -- you know, I don't really want to think about some other players.   
 Q.  Are you looking forward to having an off day now?  Dealing with the rain and coming back yesterday...  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, tomorrow is going to be an easy day.  I'm going to go on court anyway to train, to be ready for next match, and, yeah, just a little bit of time off because I had to play two days in a row because of the rain, but, you know, it's like this.  I'm very happy that I could win those two matches and looking forward for next one.   
 Q.  Just being a top 4 seed, what do you think is the one of the biggest changes you have had to adjust to?  More obligations?  Anything like that?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: You know, this Grand Slam is a special one because everyone is fighting for No. 1 spot, as well.   
But for me, I just try to, you know, take one match at a time.  Of course, I know that I'm a high seed and there is expectations, but everyone is going on court and trying to beat you and to doing everything what they can, and for me it's very important just to be there with my game and to, you know, fight for next round.   
 Q.  New York is a very popular thing in movies and songs.  I'm curious, growing up, your first memory of New York, either seeing it in a movie or hearing about it?  Or the first time you heard about it and thought I really want to come to this city?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, for me, New York, always coming here for US Open, because, you know, I have been in tennis for so many years, and I saw so many great matches, so many great champions on Ashe Stadium, and I always dream about it, to play on that court, to win on that court.   
And today it was a good day that it could happen, and, you know, I only have, you know, things about tennis most of the time, so that's why.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT