THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 10, 2017
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. OSTAPENKO/E. Svitolina   
6-3, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Watching her, she takes these risky shots all the time, going for big winners near the lines.  Good returns and good serves.  How hard is that to adjust to a player like that?  Doesn't seem like you can get much of any rhythm.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, it's normal, because she has lots of confidence now.  She won lots of matches.  It will be interesting to see, you know, when she will struggle a bit later in the year and stuff, how she gonna play.  Because I know her couple of years already.  So I know how she can play.  You know, there is some bad times in her game, as well.   
Now she played brilliant game and match.  And, yeah, it's nothing really to say.  I did my best.  I fought until the end, and those few points that she made the winner like unbelievable angle, you know, is not much I could do.   
 Q.  Knowing she can be pretty up and down as a player, are you surprised that she's been able to sustain her success over, I think it's 11 straight slam matches now.  Seems like eventually she would have a bad day and it would fall apart.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I'm not surprised.  I think she's a good player.  She can produce some good game.  She's playing very, like, different.  So that's why, you know, it's tough for me to say because I'm one of those who lost to her.   
Yeah.  I didn't see much of her game, of her matches before, but, yeah, today seemed a little bit like I was a bit unlucky (smiling) because she hits lots of lines today.  I wish I could have at least one important point.  I'm not saying overall but important.   
 Q.  Do you think it's unfair there are more high-ranking players playing on Court 1 and Centre Court than there are female high-ranking players?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't think it's unfair.  It's up to the people, referees who is setting it, who is doing the scheduling.   
I don't mind playing any court.  You know, if they would put us in Court 20 (smiling) I wouldn't mind.   
Of course it would be nice to play on a big court in front of lots of people, but it's like this, you know.  You just accept and you move on.  You get ready.   
 Q.  Overall you're going back to hard courts now after this?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah.   
 Q.  How are you feeling about the rest of your season?  This is your best at Wimbledon.  You have had overall I think a very good first half of this year.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course.  I'm happy overall with the grass court.  It was good.  It was a good experience.  It was better than I expected.   
Yeah, now I'm looking forward to hard court, is the surface that I feel pretty confident.  So I'm going to have few weeks off now and then slowly prepare for Toronto.  And, yeah, it will be very exciting time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT