DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 22, 2017
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/C. McHale
4-6, 6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Tough one to get through, wasn't it?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah.
Q. What got you through it?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think fighting through myself and everything today, because I was not there for important points.  But then in the second set when it was 3-4 down and she was serving, I was just trying to stay calm and to fight mentally and just to stay in each point and maybe wait for my chances and then try to take them, because it was really tough today.
Didn't do my best, but then I'm really happy that I won today (smiling).
Q. She has a habit of kind of these type of matches and everything.  Did you have that in your head that, oh, you can always come back on Christina?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No.  I don't know.  I don't look -- I don't follow her career.  Everyone has their own career, so it's tough to follow everyone on tour.
I just try to focus on myself if I have chances.  If not, then I try to fight and earn these chances, because if you don't do anything, then you don't get anything.
Q. So it wasn't the four pieces of toast at breakfast that gave you the energy?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, I didn't eat four pieces today.  That's why maybe next time I need to.
Q. When you're not playing well and you still win, does that give you more confidence?
ELINA SVITOLINA: It shows that I can go through some tough matches even not playing well and then try to find my game, because in the end of third set, I kind of found my game, and then also in end of second set I found my game as well.
Of course, it was some positive things, and the big one was that I fought until the end and I didn't give up.  I didn't go for crazy shots.  I was trying to move my feet even though it was very long rallies, I was very tired, I had couple of pains in my toes.
So it was very tough.  But in the end, I'm really happy that I could go through that.
Q. But the pain is away?  You feel fit now for the coming matches?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Obviously I will try to recover.  I still have hours to recover.  It's always been like this.  You know, I'm this kind of player that I run a lot.
I'm used to pain, and I try to recover as quickly as I can and I know my team is there for me to make it happen.
Q. (Question about Justine Henin.)
ELINA SVITOLINA: She's having a baby, so she's staying with family now.  She is away from tennis now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT