BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 5, 2017
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/A. Kerber
6-4, 3-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What are your thoughts after that match, another very big win for you?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, first of all, of course I'm happy that I played good match, very solid performance.  I think Angie was playing good in the third set, so it was very, very tough to stay in the moment.  But I did it, and in the end I got a win, which is really good.  I'm really happy the way I finished third set.
Q. Especially in that third set, what did you have to do to make sure that -- you know, it felt like the momentum had shifted to her side a little bit.  How did you make sure you stayed in the match and then were able to break?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, in the second set I gave her this opportunity to go back in the match, because -- I don't know what happened with me.  Well, it happens (smiling).
Because it was very tight first set.  I was serving 5-3, yeah, something like that.  Yeah, it was very intense.  That's why it's normal that the level drop a little bit.
And players like Angie, straightaway, they think there is opportunity.  That's why she got her game.  It was very tough for me to come back, but like I said, I'm very happy that I raised my level and came back to the match and finished it strong.
Q. Do you think this is more of a mental win, like a mental breakthrough?  It looked like you were getting very frustrated, you know, towards the end of the second set, understandably.  Looked like maybe Angie might run away with the third set.  But you snapped back in, which you don't always do, but you did tonight.
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, of course, there is mental part.  But in each game, mental part is a big thing.
But, also, I think I was very aggressive with my shots today.  Angie, also, she was playing much better than I remember our match in Beijing and more solid, and her serve was more solid.
So of course there have been up and down in her game, and in my game, but in the end I think it was very entertaining match.  It was lots of tough moments, which make this match very special.
Q. Australia is full of amazing wildlife.  Were you annoyed by the bugs and the flies on the court?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, I was not annoyed, but, well, it's just weird, because the bugs was just falling from the sky (laughter) so I couldn't understand what was happening.
It's quite normal, because like in Dubai, also, we have these kind of thing when the bugs are coming because of the lights, very bright lights.
It's not about Australia.  I don't have anything to say about Australia.
Q. How much, if at all, have those matches against Serena, the Olympics, and against Angie last fall, do those matches help you in a situation like this?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course.  They help me, but it's very important to go back and to think what I did good in those moments, because if you just let it be like this or let it go, then there is no point of winning matches like this (smiling).
It's very important to go back and to look at the video, what I did good, what I did wrong, as well, just to be focused on little things.  Because even sometimes losing a match, it can be very helpful to see what's you're not doing good and what you need to improve.
Q. You were talking about being aggressive tonight, and that was noticeable.  You were going for your shots and trying to hit through her a little bit more.  Do you think that that is the next big step kind of in your mindset and in your game to make that leap into the top 10, trying to get more comfortable going for your shot, being aggressive and holding the baseline?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, there is small things.  But still, I think I play really good defensive.  That's what I have to -- I already realize, but, I mean, I can win some matches just being defensive and then attack, like I do most of the time.
I mean, some people just, I don't know, they say, like, I'm not aggressive and I not deserve to be where I am.  But it's just my style of game, you know.  Also, Angie, she's also playing really good defensive, and that's what she improved that she start to be more aggressive, but still, you know, when she's playing Azarenka, for example, she's more defensive and then playing, trying to block her shots.
It's just the way that I play, and, of course, a little bit more aggressive could be great.  But the way I play, I'm really, really happy that I have my own style and not just smacking the balls everywhere.
Q. Speaking of that, you're playing Pliskova next.  She's very aggressive.  It's going to be a bit of a contrast.  Can you talk about facing her?  What's the challenge?
ELINA SVITOLINA: She's serving really good.  Well, first of all, tonight I'm going to just enjoy the win and try to realize what I did good, what I didn't do well tonight.
Tomorrow I'm going to sit down with my team and just go through the plan for tomorrow, next match.  I'm going to go out there and enjoy semifinals.  First semifinal of the year, so it's always nice to go out there and see what I can do.
Q. Do you walk away proudest of that sort of mental fortitude at the end, your mentality toward the end of the match?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I think it's a little bit my experience, maybe just a small one from the matches I played Serena, so I finished very strong mentally, and against Angie in Beijing.
And also, second round, you know, it was very tough against Shelby, and she was playing really good, and I think I came with a very solid performance.
So these kind of matches, second round and tonight, shows that mentally I'm there and I'm fighting for every ball.  It's very important for me to understand that.
Q. Are you a big Dodgers fan?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, yeah.
Q. You are?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah.  Well, I want to improve, but I'm a fan.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT