HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 6, 2016
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. KVITOVA/E. Svitolina
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese, please.
Q. There was a medical timeout during the match.  Did it impact you for the rest of the match?  Did it impact your moving or anything else?
ELINA SVITOLINA: What was the first thing?
Q. There was a medical timeout.  Did it impact you for the rest of the match?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, it's end of the season, so I had some blisters on my feet.  Also pain here and there.
Well, it's normal.  Everyone has pain.  Everyone goes on court and feels sometimes.  Because I was probably so quick and you need to run really fast, so it's a lot of stress into the body.  It's quite normal.
But just probably today was too much.  Not enough to beat Petra.
Q. You were leading 4-1 in the first set; then she came back.  What do you think was going wrong on your side?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I started really well, and then in 4-1 I played some stupid -- made some stupid decisions.
She just took the opportunity.  I gave her this opportunity, and because she is so experienced and so aggressive player, she took it straightaway.
Yeah, so it's for me just another experience that I need to be more focused, more precise with my plan.  With top players you cannot do these mistakes.  I missed my chance to win a set, and then you never know what could happen afterwards.
So...
Q. Yesterday after the semifinal you gave your towel to the someone the crowd.  What did they exactly do so that you gave them your towel?  Were you surprised you have so many fans and China?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I gave the towel to the fan from actually my city.  He was from Odessa.  He was supporting me all the match.  They were screaming my name.
You know, it's always nice to have a lot of fans, because you lost the first set and they fired me up to push myself to the limits.
Like I did, I came back stronger.  So it's amazing that the fans can do that, to push you to go for more.
That's why sometimes I give the towel or wristband or headband after my match.  Just to give them something at least, part of me, because they gave me so much as well, so much support.  It's really amazing feeling.  That's why I try to give it back.  It's also very important.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. So this week you've had Stephanie Graf at your coin toss.  Earlier in the week you had Judy Dalton from the Original 9.  What was it like to have so many figures of the WTA's past still involved in tennis today?  What did you think of that?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, it's so great that we have that opportunity to see them and to go back in history to see what they achieved in their career.
Also, you know, like Billie Jean as well.  We have this opportunity to go for -- it's called Power Hour with her, and she explains all the thing what they done and how they did WTA.
So it's just amazing.  I all the time go.  Sometimes it's only for players who's coming up, but me, every year I go into this meeting.  I always enjoy.  It's great that you have that opportunity to see those people, because it's always very interesting how they did it.
Tennis was completely different then it's now.  You know, it's -- still it's just great experience to meet them.
Q. My question is:  What are you going to do after Zhuhai?  Any plans?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, go to Maldives tomorrow morning.  (Laughter.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT