ROLAND GARROS
October 2, 2020
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  E. SVITOLINA/E. Alexandrova
 6-4, 7-5
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Firstly, as the match progressed, are you getting more confident that you can make a good run in the second week?
 ELINA SVITOLINA:   Well, for sure every match is as it is.  It's tough, and you have to take one match at a time.
 I think it's not very good to look so far ahead, and I think it puts also lots of pressure on you.
 I have been here for a few times now, and I think for me it's important just to look for my next match and to not go and run too much ahead (smiling).
 Q. The reason I ask that, because a lot of the seeds are dropping in the women's draw.  There is about 10, 11 seeds left at the minute.  What does that say about women's tennis and the draw?  Do you think that 32 seeds is good, or should they reduce it again?
 ELINA SVITOLINA:   Well, I think everyone who is in the third round, fourth round, deserve to be there, and they are there for a reason.
 For sure everyone who is gonna be in a fourth round is people who work hard and who playing good tennis for the moment, so everyone deserves to be there.
 It's a really tough question to know, but I think for the past few years there have been up and down, lots of seeds have been out of the Grand Slam.
 But still, you know, the winner who is playing the best, who is mentally stronger and coming back, coming back strong after, you know, maybe few tough moments in the tournament, because there will be one match where you're not playing great but you have to push and you have to just go through some tough moments with yourself.
 Also, I think the opponent can play really good, but you have to go through these kind of moments to win the tournament and to play well in general.
 Q. You said after the match today that Roland Garros feels different this year, but you are trying to enjoy and savor every moment.  Can you tell us what it feels like playing with big crowds and then not many people?  And also, how does it feel on a day like today where every time you look towards the crowd there is someone watching you who you recognize?
 ELINA SVITOLINA:   Well, it's not easy to play without the people.  And as I saw one of the press conference that Rafael Nadal said, very smart, cool, that the world now is sad, as well.  So it should be kind of like this.
 And it is sad to play without the people.  It's not as enjoyable, I would say.  For sure we are playing the Grand Slam, we are playing Roland Garros, which is for me always very special to play in Suzanne Lenglen, Chatrier, as well, any court, really.  This really makes you feel special, I would say.  And to go far in the tournament also it gives you confidence and really enjoyable moments.
 But, you know, something is missing.  For sure is the fans.  I really love to play in front of many people, big stadiums.  I think they really push you to play better, to compete better.  That's why I think now these days some players can struggle.  You know, they can play really good one set and then go away maybe mentally.
 So this, you know, you have to expect this can happen.  For example, if you look in my second round I played, lost the second set like in 10 minutes.  To be fair, still I didn't find the reason why it happened (smiling).
 Yeah, sometimes it can go away, but I think it takes a little bit of time to get used to it and to not think so much about that.  But it is sad, quoting Rafael Nadal.
 Q. You are searching for your first title here at Roland Garros.  You have reached the quarterfinals twice.  The players that you lost to have been Grand Slam champions.  So firstly, what did you learn from those experiences?  And secondly, what do you think is the difference between the players who have won a Grand Slam and those who are trying to win a Grand Slam?
 ELINA SVITOLINA:   Yeah, as you have picked really well, I lost in quarterfinal I think to Ivanovic the first one and the second one to Simona Halep.  So both matches have been really different, different experience for me.
 When I was I think maybe 18 or 19, that's when I played my first quarterfinal.  It was really stressful experience, I would say.
 And the second one against Simona I had plenty of chances to close that match in two sets, and in the end, I lost the match.  Really was tough for me mentally but really gave me this push, I think, mentally to overcome that and become even stronger.
 So every match kind of that you lose in a Grand Slam is tough, because you are really dreaming about having the trophy, dreaming about going far in the tournament, so you kind of make the best out of it, and you give everything.  So that's why it's extremely sad when you lose.
 For me, it's important just to take one match at a time.  I made two semifinals last year, so I try to really not focus about, you know, winning.  For sure it's in the back of my mind, and everyone wants to win the title, but you have to work really hard for it, you have to look for your chances and work really hard.  You know, again, it's only hard work that can bring you there.
 Q. Can you look ahead to the next match, Caroline Garcia or Elise Mertens?  What do you know about either of them?
 ELINA SVITOLINA:   I played against them a couple of times, and for me, they are both kind of striking the ball really good.  So I have to adjust my game plan.  I have to be really clear with my game style.
 It's gonna be another tough match.  It's not easy one, I would say, and there is no easy matches already even in the first rounds.
 So I will try to prepare, be ready physically and go from there.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT