INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 15, 2017
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I just want to know, how are you feeling for this tournament, mentally and physically?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's gonna be tough, because I didn't prepare so well for Madrid, so it's gonna be tricky for me.  But I had a couple of days to prepare and to take a rest, because -- yeah, I was very disappointed that I couldn't play well in Madrid, because I had probably high goals and high expectations for that week.   
So here I will just try to do my normal routine, preparation, and hopefully it will be fine.  Yeah, just give my best.   
 Q.  How are your expectations towards this tournament?  You said that you had higher goals in Madrid.  Do you have the same higher goals here?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Of course there is always high goals for these kind of tournaments because you want to play well.  It's such a big tournament, and you want to be part of this tournament as long as it's possible.   
That's why you have expectations.  But then I try to put a little bit in the back of my mind and try to focus on my game, on my mental preparation, and just physical preparation, as well.  But I have my team here, so they will try to put everything together, as well.  Hopefully it will be fine.   
 Q.  Talking about Madrid and Rome, you know there is a little bit of competition between these two tournaments.  Do you have any preference?  Maybe the atmosphere or just the site?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I didn't know there is a competition (smiling).  But for me, they are very different tournaments but both so well organized, you know.  For me, there is nothing that can be improved even more, but each year we come and we see there is something new, something better, and something more impressive.   
Here what amazed me the most is the fans.  They are so passionate about tennis.  There are so many of them.  Even on Monday there is so many fans.  That's very impressive for the tournament.   
 Q.  Speaking of your next round, you can either face Cornet or Errani.  Errani is home favorite.  Any preference of that?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: There is no preference for me, because they are both playing very good on clay, and it's gonna be tough match.  This kind of tournament I'm not expecting easy matches or easy draws.  There is nothing like this.   
Yeah, just will try to prepare.  Don't really focus on my opponent.  I need to be ready, to be 100%, and then see how it goes.   
 Q.  Facing Errani means also facing the home crowd.  Are you totally fine with that, or are you a little bit intimidated?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I faced Pennetta a couple of years ago here, and so I experienced already this, and I experienced the fans how they was welcoming her and supporting her.  But that time I beat her, so hopefully it will be fine for the match if I play against Sara.   
 Q.  Any chance that you have got to visit the city around?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I already was in Rome many times, so I visit a lot of times.  But for the moment I try to be more focused on the tournament and just stay calm, because, you know, so many people and it takes a lot of energy from you.   
I try to play first, and then when I have few days off before going to Paris I will visit and enjoy Rome, because it's such an amazing city and historic.  It's just, yeah, unbelievable.   
 Q.  I want to know also something about Paris, because this French Open you know Serena Williams won't be there and you are one of the top guns and sitting on high level.  This French Open, could it be the biggest opportunity to win a slam or no?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think everyone has the same chances.  There is so many good players.  Roland Garros, there is always something unexpected.  There are some players who are playing really good over there, and it depends on the weather conditions.  If it's heavy conditions for some players who are playing well, sometimes not suiting them.   
So it's gonna be tricky to see what's gonna come, but it's gonna be, for many players out there, a good opportunity to win a Grand Slam, but I don't think we can say any names who gonna do it, because you don't know what's gonna come.  You know, tomorrow, if it's gonna rain very heavy, there can be very, yeah, upsets, I'm sure.   
 Q.  So you don't have a favorite player to win?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I hope myself (smiling).  But, you know, you never know.   
I don't think that way, because it's Grand Slam.  It's two weeks.  You need to be at your high level for all the two weeks, so it's very tricky and takes lots of energy from you.  A Grand Slam is a Grand Slam.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT