SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
November 3, 2019
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. BARTY/E. Svitolina
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Talk through the match, what you think was the difference today. You both had opportunities to flip both the sets around. What made the difference?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think she was playing great match today. She was on it 100%. Then it was very, very tough.
In the first set I had one small opportunity. Unfortunately she played great, on line. I didn't really had any other chance to come back. Then everything happened really quickly in the first set. That was the key for the first set, I think.
Then second set, it was little bit, you know, up and down. But, yeah, she really played well today. Yeah, it was tough for me to do something.
I think, yeah, I missed just little bit of my chances and that's what made the difference. But she's No. 1 in the world for a reason, so...
Q. You had success against her in the past. Did she do anything different tactically today or was it just about execution, she executed her game that you expected well, and maybe you didn't execute the one you wanted to do?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, we always had a very close matches. Some of them, you know, I played little bit better on the pressure situations. Today it was very close match. Few points here and there, that's what decided the match.
But, you know, all the time played very tough matches. Those small details what made a difference.
Q. How do you reflect on your time in Shenzhen? What are the biggest takeaways from you for this week?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Obviously it was great week for me. I cannot complain after winning four matches. Yeah, it seemed like I was playing 10 matches here (smiling).
Yeah, it was a good I think still positive finish of the year.
Q. Tell us a little bit about what your off-season looks like, and if you take a vacation, what kind of vacation is your kind of vacation?
ELINA SVITOLINA: So I'm going to first of all come back and do a scan for my knee. It's the priority for me to be healthy for next season. I'm going to see what I can do. The pain is still there. It's on and off. I have to manage it. This going to be the first thing.
Then I'll take some time. I'm going to go to London probably because someone is reserved, so have to be there (smiling). Then I'll go to Ukraine for little bit. We'll slowly go to Dubai where we'll do our off-season and our preparation there for almost like one month.
Q. Looking forward, have you and Andy discussed going forward for next year? Do you plan to work together in 2020?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, we haven't discussed anything yet. It's what we're going to do after few days when the tournament is done.
We're going to sit down probably in London, yeah, discuss our goals, our work, what we have to improve. Everything needs to be clear going into the next season. Yeah, just have a fresh start, fresh view on my game.
There's few things I really want to improve. For sure he has his own thoughts. Yeah, we have to work on it. We have to, yeah, be clear.
Q. There obviously was a record amount of prize money on the line today. How much was that on your mind before the match started? If not, how difficult was it not to think about it?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, it still hurts to have the opportunity to be so close to get so much. But in the end, you know, it's not about the money, it's about the title actually.
Q. Despite the result tonight, you still had a strong finish to the season. Will you use it as a springboard to go one or two steps further in the Grand Slams next season?
ELINA SVITOLINA: For sure I want to play well in the Grand Slams. Last year, I mean, I want, and it didn't really happen. In Australia I made the same quarterfinal, then injury happened.
That's why priority for me is to be healthy. When I'm healthy, I can give myself a good opportunity to play well, play well at the Grand Slams as well. That's going to be the priority for me.
For sure, you know, I'm going to take positives. Not now because now I'm very, very sad that I couldn't win today. But after time will be better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT