HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 3, 2016
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/E. Vesnina   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese, please.   
 Q.  First of all, congratulations on your second win.  Two questions for you.  This is your second time in Zhuhai.  How do you comment on the facility here, the schedule of the event, and the city itself?  And question No. 2, you will be in the semifinal now.  Who is your favorite opponent and least favorite opponent?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, yeah, it was second time for me here.  I didn't see much of Zhuhai, but I heard good things about it.  Looks like a small New York and it's building a lot.  Since last year as well a lot of work done, a lot of lights everywhere.   
You know, like on the building.  We're not used to see in Ukraine because we don't have that much probably money to take for electricity.  So, yeah.   
Yes, I don't have any favorite opponent.  Yeah, they are playing well.  Everyone is playing well here.  It's I think a little bit strange to say that I have someone favorite to play.   
Yeah, I'm looking forward to the semifinal.  Going to be my second semifinal, so hopefully this time I will go further than last year.   
Yeah, we will look forward to Saturday.  Yeah, it's going to be very interesting match I think for sure.  Doesn't matter who I'm going to play.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  A lot of tough games in the first set.  I think you saved six breakpoints in the first.  How did you turn that around and stay up through the two sets and get it done so quickly in the end?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I was trying to be really focused on my serve, because she is quite aggressive from both sides, from forehand and backhand.   
So I was trying to mix it up a lot and just being in the moment.  I think I was playing really well on the break points down.  Yeah, it was just -- it was a good game for me today, very solid.  In important moments I was very solid, and I think that's why the score was my way.   
I broke in the first set really playing aggressive.  Yeah, it was solid game today.   
 Q.  Even though it was a round robin it was a pretty straightforward scenario.  You win and make the semifinal.  Did that help today, knowing you didn't have to deal with any math or complicated scenarios like that?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, still was quite tough.  My first match was quite tough as well.  Of course it's maybe quite obvious for media to say that it was obvious that I'm going to win.   
Still for me, there was still a lot of work to do ahead in that moment.  So I was trying to just take match by match, set by set and just to give every thing.   
Last tournament.  I still try to don't think about it.  I try to think that I still have couple tournaments ahead of me.  When you think about your last tournament you start to be really down in energy.  You start to think about Maldives or something.   
Yeah, just I try to enjoy the moment.  I think it helped in the first match when I was down the first set, and then also today staying in the moment, it really help me a lot.   
 Q.  Finally, Timea Bacsinszky brought in an opera mask.  Have you been to the station at the tournament where they're doing the nails and calligraphy and painting masks?  Have you gotten to experience any of that yet?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, I didn't do it yet because, yeah, I was too busy watching movies.  I am really interesting in that.   
Yeah, I will do probably because it's quite traditional thing in China.  So I'm always trying to get something traditional from each country.  Yeah, it's very interesting to see what people like and what is their traditions.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT