HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 7, 2015
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







K. PLISKOVA/E. Svitolina
  6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. When she's serving that well it seems like it's a pretty tough ask to win today. What did you think that she did well that took the match out of your hands and what do you think you could have maybe done better to get the match back on your terms? 
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, actually, yeah, she was serving really well and hitting the ball just so well. 
Of course, yeah, was tough match, but honestly, this morning I was feeling like so, so bad and like I'm 90 years old actually. After yesterday's match I didn't recover well, and it was not enough today. 
She's great player, and you need to move really well and to move the ball around the court well. So it was not enough today. I'm really disappointed that my body let me down today. 

Q. Can you talk a little bit about Karolina's game? Obviously we're used to seeing big hitters. She looks like a player that you should be able to move around, right? Maybe not the quickest of feet. Talk about her game, what makes her a particularly dangerous player, and where do you think might have been able, if you felt better today, to exploit her?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I know her long time already. She improved a lot. She plays more consistently and serving really, really well and much consistently than she was before.
I mean, that's why she moved into top 10, close to top 10. It's always, always tough to play these kind of players because you don't know what to expect. Sometimes it can be out like two meters and sometimes it can be amazing shot.
So it's always tough to play against these kind of players. You need to be ready for everything. Sometimes when it's not your day you cannot do anything. You just need to accept and move on. 
Because, yeah, like today, you know, my body didn't let me do much today. She was just too good, you know, serving well and hitting spots. You know, just everything together didn't let me do or win more games, at least today. 

Q. Do you call this your best season? Looking back at the whole year, if there is one thing you could change, what it will be? 
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course this is the best season. I finish this season top 20. I am happy. Yeah, of course there is some things that I want to change not only in my game, but also in preparation. 
Like today, my body was not ready to play, so I think I need to work more physically to be stronger for all the season and of course plan the tournaments smarter.
There is some small details which matters, you know, for this, such a high level. The small things is so important. Like today, you know, there is just few things which was not letting me win today. 

Q. Quite a few of the younger players or the players in your generation, they kind of have up and down seasons from time to time. You've been very steady from when you came on tour until now. So I'm just wondering how proud you are of that, if that's a thing you're proud about, or do you think you haven't gone high enough? What's your opinion on that? 
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, there is many upcoming players, and everyone I think, in my opinion, has something special in their game. That's why, you know, there is all the time like we have small like competition. 
That's why it keep us going and keep us pushing for better results. Yeah, this year been quite consistent and I had a good start of the year. I think it was because I worked hard on some specific things on the off‑season.
So it was a great thing for me. Yeah, during this year of course there been some tough loses, but without these lose, probably I wouldn't get better or just think more about what I need to improve or just see some things which I need to improve.
So it's good thing that I'm consistent, but I still need to improve it on the court as well with my game. That's the most important for me. 

Q. I've noticed in the press conference no matter when we ask the question in English or Chinese, which you don't understand, or even the interpreter do her job, you smile a lot. Can we say you are just that type of girl who enjoys smiling?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, it's just that experience when you hear some different language. It's always so special because, yeah, the different intonation or different just‑‑ it's just so special and just nice to hear. (Laughter.)

Q. Can you just confirm are you still training in Nice, France? Or are you in Britain? I don't know where your training base is these days. 
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I'm still in Nice, in the academy, but for next year I will see how it goes. But I'm going to do my off‑season just a few weeks in Abu Dhabi this year as well, like always just to prepare for the heat and open courts as well, big court there where I can play like here, you know, get used to on big stand.
So there is not really changes. The same coach. I am having a new physical coach for next year with who I'm starting with this off‑season.

Q. What's the name? 
ELINA SVITOLINA: He's from Belgium, but he's not really famous.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT