CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 26, 2016
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/J. Larsson   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be in the final?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's a great feeling to be in the final again.  It's the first premier event for me, so, yeah, it's special one.  Yeah, I'm looking forward to this challenge.   
 Q.  What went right for you this week or what did you do well to make it to your first premier final?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think I was playing really, really smart, and trying to adjust myself to the situation.  And, yeah, was really, really calm.  Yeah, I was just playing with the ball, not really against the opponent.   
 Q.  When you came in here this week, did you expect this?  Did you feel like you were playing well before this or not really?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I was thinking that I playing good because playing in Olympics.  Even in Cincinnati, it was disappointing lose, but my game was there.  I always try to find the confidence in myself even when I lose matches.   
Yeah, was coming here, first match was tough opponent.  Yeah, was really going out there with the confidence and was playing really well from the start.   
I'm really happy the way I handle all the situations, so it's going well.   
 Q.  You mentioned the Olympics a couple times this week, and not once have you talked about, I beat Serena and that gave me great confidence.  How much did that help you, to beat someone like her on that stage?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I'm not mentioning that I beat Serena because is just another step in the right direction.  Of course, I beat her in Olympics, it's amazing.  But for me, I didn't win a medal so it was quite disappointing.  I was going there to get the medal, and it didn't happen.   
I take every match as important for me.  Doesn't matter who I play.  Of course, Serena is going to be history.  Yeah, was a great win.  But I was trying to take match by match.   
Olympics, was little bit disappointed that I finished that way after beating her.   
 Q.  You are 4-0 in finals.  This is your first premier final.  What is it about finals that brings out the best in you?  Is this going to be a little bit different?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I try to don't think this way, that I'm 4-0.  I just try to be focused.   
Last final was really tough.  I was down a set and I think 4-2 against Bouchard in Kuala Lumpur.  Yeah, I try to be focused, play my best.   
It's a final, but I try to think it's just another match and I need to be 100% focused.  Yeah, we will see how it goes.   
 Q.  Would this one mean a little more, being a premier event, or do they all seem the same when you win the title?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: It feels, of course, more special because it's premier event.  For the rest, I don't think this way.  It's just final, you know.  My goal is to win a Grand Slam.  It's just another step in the right direction.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your two potential opponents, what you would have to do to beat either one of them.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think I need to play my game.  I need to be calm with my plan.  I don't know yet who I'm going to play.  They are both great players.  Yeah, they're on top.  We'll see.  They have different games.   
I'm going to sit down with my coaches when I know against who I'm going to play, go from there.   
 Q.  Will you watch or not?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Maybe just couple of games on TV in my bed (laughter).  But, yeah, just try to enjoy this moment.  Today was a tough match.  It was really hot out there.  I was struggling.  I'm happy that I could finish in two sets.   
Yeah, it was good match, and I think I enjoy a little rest today.  Tomorrow is a new challenge, new day.   
 Q.  Larsson said you hit the ball really flat and low over the net.  Are you feeling a great rhythm right now or do you normally play that way, less unforced errors this week?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't know.  It's tough for me to say because I'm not playing against myself.  I cannot feel what my ball does.   
But I try to mix up all the time.  I try to confuse my opponent.  But, yeah, I feel good the ball.  I'm moving really well, what helps me a lot on this stage.  Yeah, everything is well during this week.  I played good matches.  I'm really happy with the results.   
 Q.  Are you happy with where you are in your career right now?  You are one of the younger players at the tournament.  Your goal is to win Grand Slams, plural.  Do you feel you're on that path to where you're going to get there someday soon?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, for sure.  I wouldn't dream if I didn't think I could achieve this.  I think I need some time to adjust my game to try to compete against top players.  But I think against Serena, against Kerber, I'm competing.  Just small details which I need to adjust in my game, in my preparation.   
Just takes time.  I'm not in a big rush.  But, you know, I try to take one step at a time.   
 Q.  Are those small details consistency or adding a different shot to your arsenal?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think consistency is one of the biggest things because you can see Serena, when she's playing her best, she's serving amazing, seeing the ball well.  Kerber is always bring the ball back.  It's really tough to play against them.  Radwanska, Kvitova, they all have something special in their game.  Consistency is one of those things.   
I think I'm moving the right way.  Just need some time to adjust my game and to be consistent against top players because obviously, yeah, in international events, and during this week you can see I'm playing well, I have these opportunities.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about what it's like to work with Justine, what that experience has been like for you.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's great to have her by my side.  It works well with my coach and her.  We are trying to change small things, of course, the bigger picture.  Yeah, during the off-season, we'll try to change small things.  I have added fitness coach with me.   
So, yeah, we try to take small details what can matter the most.  Yeah, this is what we're working on.   
 Q.  She won here 10 years ago.  Did she give you any tips about New Haven?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No.  She said it was a great tournament.  But, yeah, it's tough to say because she was a different player.   
Yeah, I try my best tomorrow, and I hope I can win as well.  Yeah, it's going to be a new day.  We'll see.  I will try my best tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT