BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2015
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. SVITOLINA/L. Safarova
  7‑6, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Getting it done in straight sets.   What were you able to get done well today?   Lucie is a tough opponent. 
ELINA SVITOLINA:   Yeah, it was tough from the start of the match.   I think both was a bit nervous.   The ball was flying a bit from my side and from her side, as well. 
I was trying to be focused, because was waiting for my chance.   Yeah, was playing well and was really focused from the start.   Tiebreaker was playing well, and I think one or two points decided the set.

Q.   When the ball is flying on you‑ a lot of players say that's a big challenge at Indian Wells ‑ but when the ball is flying off your racquet and you're having trouble controlling it, what do you do to try and get the control back?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   First we go up with the tension.   This is the first thing we do, especially here.   Definitely has always been like this. 
Then you just try to move better, and, yeah, just try to play more with speed.   I think this is the most important, because if it's flying, you know, you cannot go so flat.   So you need to use the spin, spin the ball. 

Q.   This is your third win I believe over a left‑handed player.   Is there something about lefties that gets you going or, do you like playing them?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   No, actually it's tough to play.   For me, it's really tough to play against left handed.   Always struggle a bit when I see in the draw. 
But, yeah, I don't know.   Something‑‑ maybe I'm just extra focused when I play against left handed.   I think this is the thing what is happening when I play against them.   But it's always tough and tricky to play against left handed because they have different speed and different spin on the ball.
It's tough.   It's like this.   For them it's also tough because you can use your spin and for them to go other way into the body.
Yeah, it's just for both players. 

Q.   So what did you work on in the offseason?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   Offseason I was working more on my footwork.   This was the most important for me.   For now it's the most important thing, to move my feet better and to, yeah, to go with the ball more forward.
And I think it works well now because I'm moving much better.   I have been watching a lot of matches with my coach this year in Brisbane and in Australian Open, so I improved a lot. 
I'm really happy with the way it goes now.

Q.   When you talk about footwork, you mean the footwork around the ball?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   Yeah.

Q.   Or speed?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   Yeah, both.   I mean, you cannot just ‑‑you need to improve everything.   Moving forward and moving side to side and around the ball, making much more inside out, inside in balls with my forehand, moving better with my forehand.
Yeah, I'm really happy with it. 

Q.   Did you think about what your goals would be at the start of the season for this season, like what are your targets?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   Yeah, my main goal is top 15 at the end of this year, but of course it will change if I reach top 15, which is ‑‑ I think it's possible for me.   Even after three Grand Slams, after Wimbledon, I think I can reach this goal.
So I'm looking forward to this season, and looks not so bad for now.

Q.   The cap?   AJ?   What's that?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   It's just (smiling) nothing special.   Just a cap. 

Q.   What does it stand for, AJ? 
ELINA SVITOLINA:   This is the mark, but this is ‑‑it's not my sponsor. 

Q.   We won't mention it. 
ELINA SVITOLINA:   It's not my sponsor.   I just like the caps.   Yeah. 

Q.   I'm curious about when you played Maria in Brisbane the first set didn't go very well for you.   Then I think you were down like 4‑1 in the second set, and then you started to like reel off all these games in the end.   Is it just because at that point you were‑‑ was it they were looser?   You understand what I'm saying?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   No, I was not nervous playing against her.   It's always tough because she's so experienced, and she started really well in that match.   She was playing just‑‑ you know, didn't do anything wrong from the start.   She was playing, and I was waiting to come back in my game, and she gave me chance only on 4‑1. 
So was trying to take my chance.   I was close, but, you know, she's so experienced that, you know, it's tough to play when you are already 4‑1 down and a set down. 
Yeah, next match of course I will try to start early.   But, yeah, it's always tough to play against these kind of players who play so many matches already in this top level.   Yeah, it's tough.

Q.   I saw that you like to drive cars. 
ELINA SVITOLINA:   Yeah, I like the cars a lot, and I hope I can have one by the end of this year, and my favorite one is Porsche.

Q.   If you win Stuttgart you can get a Porsche. 
ELINA SVITOLINA:   Yeah, this is the good tournament to win to get a Porsche (smiling).

Q.   Did you ever drive one?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   Yeah, yeah.   I drive.   I have a car and I have few cars in my family, so I drive when I'm in the Ukraine.   In Ukraine, you know, you don't have so like rules like here in the States, so you can do many things in Ukraine while you're driving.

Q.   How fast?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   Yeah, that's why you can drive like really fast in the city or something, but you just need to be careful that police doesn't see you. 
But it's less rules than here.   Here is they are watching you everywhere.

Q.   You may play Makarova in the next round.   The match is not over yet, but it might be another lefty for you.   Do you have any comments on that? 
ELINA SVITOLINA:   Yeah, she's a good player.   She's been playing great for the last year and played great Australian Open, so it's tough, another tough player.   But, you know, it's always a challenge to play against top‑10 player and just players who is showing good tennis.
Yeah, I'm looking forward to this match.   Is going to be interesting, of course.   She's left handed, so I will try to take my chances.

Q.   Have you had any coaching changes in the offseason or are you still working with the same coaches?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   I'm working with the same guy from England, Iain Hughes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT