ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2016
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/A. Ivanovic   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Can you tell us what was the key today?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think positive mentality and, yeah, this was definitely the key today.  Stick to the plan, also.  I was trying -- even when I was down a little bit in my mind, but I was trying to play what the coach has been telling me and what was the plan for me.   
I think it worked really well, because it was up and down in my game, and in her game, as well.  I needed to be really positive and focused on what I supposed to do.   
 Q.  Having had a record against her like you did, what do you feel you changed coming in?  It wasn't very good for you, but obviously you executed today on some sort of different game plan.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I think it was better mentality than other matches before, other seven matches.   
And the game, I was really confident today.  I don't know.  Just everything was right.  Today I was doing right things.  Even missing bad shots, I was trying to stay positive and to play my tennis.  I think it was working really well today, and I was really happy that I could stay in such a high level against her, and still having in my mind that I'm 0-7 down.  And it was tough, but I'm really happy that I could finish the match two sets.   
 Q.  How much do you feel like Justine has really helped you in the mental department?  What are the great things she's brought to you as a coach that perhaps someone else wouldn't be able to?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think her experience is of course when she was playing on court and she understands what I feel, and that's the main key, I think.  Because for some coaches who didn't play on such a high level, it's tough, I think.  It's just different.  It's not bad; it's not good.   
That's why for me it's important to have my coach Iain, he helps me more like technical things, and she's more on the mental thing for me.   
So everything worked well this period of time and in this stage.  So it works now.   
 Q.  Serena is up a set.  We're not sure yet who is going to be your next opponent, but can you talk about the prospect of potentially facing Serena.  And having Justine in your corner, someone who has actually faced her, as well, how valuable that can be?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, we didn't really speak about it yet, but of course it's going to be a big challenge for me, like today, as well.  First win against Ana, it's huge for me.   
I think mentally I need to stay strong, stay positive, and no more junior mentality and junior tennis, you know.   
It's been a big thing for me now, and I need to change something, my preparation in my game, as well.  Of course I still do bad mistakes, but, you know, I cannot go further without doing mistakes.   
So we'll see.  It's gonna be a tough match, but I'm going to try my best and I'm going to give 100% in that day.   
 Q.  What did you feel like you did so well against Serena that set that you won off of her at the Australian Open last year?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I was just playing my game.  I was serving well.  Serve is a big key against her, because she -- you never know.  She can serve twice in a row and then she can struggle as well with her serve.   
So you need to stay calm and, you know, on your level of your good tennis, stay solid and try your best.   
You never know.  Maybe it's her best day or maybe it's her worse day.   
Maybe you have a chance today.  You know, it's always about chances, and stay solid during all the match.   
 Q.  How do you describe the past six months, the arc of the season?  Maybe there were a bit of ups and downs.  How did you reach this level where you are right now?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course there have been up and down.  I played bad the start of clay season, but I had injury, as well.   
I was struggling physically.  And the physical part is a big thing in my game, you know.  I'm running everywhere, so I need to be fit 100%, and if I'm not fit, it's really tough for me to bring the best.  Yeah, it's been tough, but we are doing everything what is in our power.   
Everyone in my team is trying their best to help me to improve, to reach some new things in this level.  So we are working really hard on the off court and on court, as well.   
 Q.  You mentioned no more junior mentality.  When you're now in the second week at a slam, not for the first time, do you feel comfortable being around here?  Do you feel that you belong to this league?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Maybe at Roland Garros, yes.  But in the other slams have been tougher for me.   
But we will work on it, and we will see what we can improve.  There is still plenty of things that I can improve in my game, in my preparation, during matches and of course on the practice court, as well.  So still a lot of things to improve and change.   
It's really tough, I can tell you.  But, no, I think it's worth it in the end.   
 Q.  Lastly, you would have been 8 years old when Serena and Justine had their famous battle here.  I'm wondering if you watched that match and/or if you watched them when you were a little girl?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Of course.  Of course I watched.  But I didn't watch this particular match.  I think I watched when they played Australian Open.   
I'm not sure I'm going to watch it before I'm going to play against Serena (smiling).   
But still, it's different.  She has different game, and I have different game.  So it's not like I have her in my team so I'm going to play exactly like her, because it's impossible.  We are completely different persons.  So we try to find something in between what suits me, what suits my game, and, yeah, it's just what's the best for me.   
So we are still learning a lot of things in this period of time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT