DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 25, 2014
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. SVITOLINA/A. Kerber
  6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Congratulations.   Talk about that match and how you were able to pull it out.   Especially the second set it got very, very tight and going into the tiebreak. 
ELINA SVITOLINA:   It was a tough match, especially I lost last week against her, and I think I analyze good with my coach from the last week, because, yeah, been close match also. 
So, yeah, just trying to go for my shots.   And really the second set she was playing really aggressive and didn't missmuch, so I was trying to stay calm and just trying to fight for every ball. 
Yeah, I found the way in my game, and that was really aggressive in the second set, so I was really happy that I could find my game.

Q.   What are you more proud of, the fact that you got a win like that over a top‑10 player or making your first premier semifinal?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   I think I was proud of myself today, because I was really fighting for every ball and didn't give up on 4‑1.   I think also in the second round against Lisicki was the same.   I was losing 0‑5, and, yeah, I think it's the main thing for me that I could find the way to win these kind of matches, because they are great players and they are not giving easy balls.
Yeah, really happy with this tournament.   But I was working really hard for this and for this kind of moments.   So, yeah, just enjoying on the court now. 

Q.   Congratulations and welcome to Wuhan.   Since this is your first time here, I want to know, what's your expectation of your performance before coming here?   And do you have any targets for the Wuhan Open here?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   Coming here, I didn't really expect that I would go in semifinal here, so was just trying to take match by match. 
Was playing really good from the first round.   Was really getting confidence each match, and it wasn't easy.   So, yeah, I'm just trying to show my best this tournament and, yeah, seeing how I can do, what I can do, because after US Open was playing not so good.   Couple of weeks in New Haven and US Open was not so good tournaments for me. 
So I was working really hard two weeks before this tournament.   And, yeah, I'm really ‑‑I think it's paying off for me, because, yeah, been really working hard.

Q.   You said that you were very aggressive in tonight's match.   Do you think that's the best approach when you face Petra in the semifinals tomorrow?
ELINA SVITOLINA:   Yeah, I think I will try to play the same way.   Don't really think there is other way to win, just pushing the ball or something.   I think I will just try to continue to play aggressive and stay at my game.
Yeah, we'll see how it goes.   Last time I was playing really good against her in Cincinnati.   So, yeah, I just will try to fight for every ball like I did today and from the start of this tournament, so, yeah, will see how it goes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT