SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
November 2, 2019
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/B. Bencic   
5-7, 6-3, 4-1 (ret.)   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Not the way you want to reach your second consecutive final, but what is the overwhelming emotion right now?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, it's still kind of like not realizing that I'm in the final. Yeah, it's tough to play someone who has been injured, been injured on the court. Yeah, it was tough for her.   
 Q.  Yesterday you talked about you've become a much better server than a few years ago. Today you had 16 aces. Talk about your service performance tonight.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, today was actually very good serving. At the beginning I was serving really great. I think this is actually my record for one match, to serve 16 aces. Yeah, it's something really positive. Hope I can keep it up for tomorrow's match, as well.   
 Q.  Are we going to start calling you Ace Queen now?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think this title is taken.   
 Q.  How much of the first set was mental? How much was on you?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, stay into the match, it was tough. When someone injured, tries to go for more. Actually she was hitting the ball very good from the place. I had to try to move her. This was not easy because it's tough to find a balance when you have to really hit the ball, then when you have to try to direct the ball well.   
She was going for it. Sometimes, of course, she was missing a lot. Sometimes she was hitting amazing shots. That's the challenge, what you have to be aware of.   
 Q.  I saw you practicing until right before the match started. Maybe you went to the center court straightaway. Is that your normal routine?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, it's actually sometimes I do that. It's such a big tournament like this, when you straight have to play someone who is in the top eight, someone who presents straightaway the tough game and you have to be from the beginning very focused and ready, that's what we try to do.   
We did it from the beginning of this week. I did also this in the other tournaments. Sometimes it's not easy to find a court close to the center because you have to go almost straightaway. Here it's very comfortable. That's why. It's been helping me because I've been, yeah, playing good.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about either Ash or Karolina.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, with Karolina, we played already this week. If I'm going to play her, it's going to be interesting match. I try to just stay focused. Doesn't matter who I'm going to play, Ashleigh or Karolina, No. 1 and No. 2 in the world, so you have to be ready, you have to fight.   
Is the very, very last match of the season. Definitely tomorrow I'm going to leave everything on the court and fight just to try to get another trophy here.   
 Q.  People always say there's no easy match in the WTA Finals. You've had 10 wins in a row. Talk about how proud you are and how you did that.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Let's maybe talk about it tomorrow. I have an important match tomorrow to win. For me, I try to take one match at a time. You don't have to think so much ahead, so much what's going on.   
It's every match from the beginning you have to be on it, have to be focused, have to be presenting your best game, your best mental conditions, physical conditions.   
I always like to push my limits. That's what I try to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT