SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
October 30, 2019
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/S. Halep   
7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Two for two. Only person to get through in straight sets. What is it about your game and the speed of this court that seems to be working so well today?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, to be fair, I don't know. I try to work every single point and start from the beginning just trying to take one point at a time. I don't really think so much about if it's good, if it's bad. Just taking every point, every game at a time.   
That's been working really good. I try to step on the court and to always have positive mindset.   
 Q.  Simona was telling her coach during one of the breaks that, Nothing I do is bothering her. Did you sense that frustration on the other side of the net? Does that help you, I guess?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, thank you for this comment.   
Yeah, I mean, I was moving well. I think every player tries to work for that moment when the opponent have no answer. I know that when I'm fit, I can play very good, I can move very good, I have a good defense. It's about managing attack and defense for me. I've been working on this. That's working well this week. Hopefully I can get many more this tournament.   
 Q.  You're usually quite good at tournaments where you won before. What is your mentality like now? Does it give you a certain type of confidence? For some others they see being defending champion as pressure. Feels with you it's the opposite.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't take it as a pressure, to be fair. Of course, there is some kind of pressure because you're losing points in this week. I think this kind of thing is pressure.   
I always try to never take it that way. I always try to take it as I played well here, so let's find this year as well. This kind of mindset, this kind of game, it takes work to do it.   
That's what we've been doing well with Andy. He helps me very good on this, to make me remember what I did well on the courts and where I played well.   
Yeah, that's it. That's pretty much my mindset all the time.   
 Q.  I don't know if you remember it, in the second set you played an amazing forehand slice drive. Is that a shot that you played before? I wonder why you chose it at that moment. Simona seemed completely surprised by it.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think many people were surprised. Even myself because I played it that well (smiling).   
Honestly, I actually played many more of these shots when I was growing up. I was lots of slicing. It was actually working a lot for myself because my coach at that time, he really hated that shot. But you see here, it brought me a point, very important one. Surprised the opponent.   
You never know. It might help me in the future, too.   
 Q.  Do you remember when the last time was you hit that shot?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Maybe in practice with Gael. He does so many crazy stuff on the practice. This is my signature shot, so...   
 Q.  How do you go into the third match knowing you're already secure regardless of win or lose?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, every match is important one. I never really take the matches just for nothing. For me, every match matters.   
I'm going to try to go in with the same mindset. I'm going to sit down with Andy to see what's the game plan. I will try to make it work on that day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT