SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
October 28, 2019
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/K. Pliskova   
7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you walk us through your mentality during the first set tiebreak. What did you tell yourself to stay in the moment?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, exactly you tell yourself to stay in the moment. You just try to play one rally at a time, to don't rush. Even when I had the chances to finish the set, because there was few, I thought I could play better, you just have to quickly restart and, yeah, just try to take one point at a time, to don't rush and don't get down on yourself.   
 Q.  She played some of the set points ridiculous shots. Did it get frustrating at all when she would up her level?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Exactly, I had to really mentally be tough, try to don't think so much because obviously she's a great player. I had to expect that she would step up her game.   
Some of the shots were really amazing. What I had to do, I had just to try to get another chance, try to get the point going and to find my way into the match. She was serving couple of times for the set. It was tough.   
I always know when I am tough mentally I get another chance.   
 Q.  Your head-to-head, a story of two eras. She won the first five matches, now you're four in a row. What did you do to change things around?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think I became more complete player. I started to play much better. I'm mentally stronger. I don't really think about those head-to-heads. I know I'm more consistent now than the game what I was before when we were playing. I think that's what's gives me those wins.   
 Q.  You've been here a couple times. You are well acquainted with the round-robin format. What is it like to get the first win? How much pressure does that take off?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, there is always pressure I would say because you see last year, I won two matches, then I had to win one more set. I almost lost the match, almost not qualified for semis.   
There is always pressure. You always have to be up there, always have to bring your best game. Until the last point is done, you have to fight for every single point, every single game.   
That's why round-robins are extremely tough, because you never know what's going to happen. You have to give everything each time you step on the court.   
 Q.  Last year during Singapore you said you had something to prove to yourself. That was a big motivation for you. What is the biggest motivation this week?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think biggest motivation is to get the trophy this year. This is my last chance. Yeah, I try to win as many matches as I can. That's the biggest motivation for me.   
I always try to bring my best game. Just to be here it's already amazing achievement for everyone. Everyone is a champion. You have to bring your best game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT