ROGERS CUP
August 7, 2019
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/K. Siniakova
6-3, 3-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Today you took a medical time-out at the start of the second set, so how were you feeling and how is the body holding up, and generally could you talk us through what happened?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, it's holding together in one piece so far, so it's good already.
Yeah, I had some issues.  And I think it's normal.  Everyone is -- all the top athletes and any athletes has some pain here and there.  We have tournaments almost every week, so there will be some pain.  Sometimes it's more, sometimes less.
But, yeah, I needed the time-out to loosen up the muscle.  And it's better, so hopefully, you know, I can recover and be ready for my next match.
Q. A lot of top seeds have gone down already.  Do you think it helps you, having a few matches on hard court under your belt coming in?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, definitely I was happy to play in San Joe.  It's a good tournament.  I really enjoyed playing there.  I enjoyed the organization.  I think it was nice.
And playing few matches, of course.  But before, like, two years ago -- or last year I didn't play.  And I played well, the semifinal and then the win, two years ago.
So I don't know if it helps me, but this year I was happy to play in San Jose, and I think it was the right thing to do.
Q. What do you think was the difference today in the match?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think I stayed more aggressive on the important points.  It was quite up and down, quite roller-coaster match.
And I played well on the game of 4-3 to break her.  And I think this was the key just to try to earn the opportunity, try to get the chance to break her, and I got the chance.  I played aggressive.  I moved forward.
And then it was very tough to serve it out, but I did it.  And on this factor, I was really happy and proud of how strong I stayed mentally.
Q. You played a number of three setters in recent weeks.  You're going against Belinda Bencic tomorrow who you have played twice.  Do you have the energy to do that?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, definitely it's another match.  I'm here to win matches.
I'm really motivated to play well.  And just in general, you know, each time I step on court, I want to do my best.  I want to play my best game.  And even if it's not my day, I try to fight back and try to turn the match around.
So it's going to be another challenge, and I think, yeah, I'm ready to take it and we'll see how it goes.
Q. Obviously, last time you were in Toronto you won the tournament but you also went deep in Montreal last year.  Do you notice a difference in the atmosphere between the two cities in terms of the energy and the crowd?
ELINA SVITOLINA: There is definitely a big difference between the cities.  Most of the people in Montreal speak French, so it's a little bit different, I would say, than here.  And that's why it's a bit strange.
But the site almost looks exactly the same and the court pretty much the same.  I'm not sure about the conditions, but I think here is more -- a little bit more humid, and that's pretty much the difference.
But atmosphere in Montreal or here is always amazing, you know, with all the fans and how many people are coming and watching and supporting.  And it's, yeah, something amazing in Canada.
Q. It doesn't always happen but a lot of times we're seeing in these three-set matches or the tight sets where it's 4-4, 5-5 in those sets, the top players, the top 10 players find a way to figure out what to do, break, save break points, do whatever.  What do you think is the difference there?  Why do you think that in that 4-3 game, you know, late in the match that you come through?  Is there something that the top players do better in those moments?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I think most of the time -- for sure there is still matches where the top players don't go through.
But I think most of the time we're just more stronger, playing more solid, and maybe just taking one ball at a time, not rushing the situation and not rushing the decisions as well.  Just more focused and just taking our time and don't thinking what can happen or what could happen.
So for me, I think this may be the key.  And also maybe the person who is a little bit further maybe don't have that confidence or belief that they can make it.  So yeah.
Q. After reaching the semifinals in Wimbledon, what does that mean in terms of how you go from here on out to attain more of those personal bests in Grand Slams?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I don't have any -- you know, it's a good step for me, and I don't take it any other way.  I just try to focus on my game.  I try to improve.  I try to just put myself in a good position with my game and with my mental strength as well.
So when I'm mentally fresh, when I'm physically fine, you know, I have a good chance to play well.  So this is my goal for now.  I've been struggling with my injuries here and there and this, you know, it really puts you off the track, and to get back, like, the match mindset is not that easy.
So that's why, for me, the goal is now to stay healthy and, you know, work every day, every single day towards, you know, my goal and just my game, you know, to improve each time I step on the court.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT