US OPEN
August 30, 2019
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/D. Yastremska   
6-2, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How happy are you with your performance? What are you most proud of?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, it was a really solid performance I thought for me. I didn't give many unforced errors. I think also she's a good player. She can strike the ball very good.   
I had to stay really focused from the beginning. For me, was important to stay solid from the baseline, then take my chance, which happened.   
It was really good performance from me.   
 Q.  Pliskova was here earlier in the week and said how hard it was to play someone from her country. Is it safe to say for you maybe opposite?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, I wouldn't say opposite. It is always tricky because I think it's a different nerves. Each time you step on the court in a Grand Slam, everyone has nerves.   
But I think when you playing someone from the same country, and in our case from the same city, which is special, you have to handle it, you have to try to really be, I don't know, just in yourself.   
Today I think I did it pretty well. She needs more experience in these kind of matches, so that's why it happened my way today.   
 Q.  You play Madison next. You played her at the Australian Open and beat her. What are the keys when you face Madison Keys?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think it's going to be another big challenge for me. Each time I play against her, it's a tough battle. I have to prepare well. For me important just to stay focused on what I have to do on the court.   
It's fourth round, so I have to enjoy. Have to, yeah, to be ready for her big shots.   
 Q.  What are the most challenging aspects for you of her game?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I think it's not a big surprise for everyone who are playing against her that she has big strokes. That's what I have to expect from her.   
 Q.  In the past two rounds, your match was day session. Tonight is a night session. Do you have any preference what you want to play?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't have any preference. If you're playing early in the morning or day session, you have the rest of the day free. If you're playing at night, you are little bit cooler, the weather is little bit cooler, which is little bit nicer. To play under the lights is always special.   
I try to look only positives. For me both are good.   
 Q.  One of the matches tomorrow that's going to get a lot of attention is Coco Gauff against Naomi Osaka. What are your thoughts on what you've seen of Coco Gauff so far and maybe that match in particular?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I don't know actually. I know that they have a matchup because everybody talking about it.   
I don't know. I don't really have any thoughts about it. It's going to be another third-round match for someone because it's a big match. I don't have really thoughts about it.   
 Q.  How about thoughts about Coco herself? What have you seen in her game that has been most impressive to you?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think the way she was handling those tough matches. Most of the matches she played was three sets. Yeah, that's impressive for such a young girl. I remember myself, I was not even playing seniors. That's very impressive.   
But I think now these days the young stars, they are going for it. They have no fear. They're just throwing everything at us. That's what's really impressive, not only for her but young 17-, 18-, 19-years-old players. That's what stands out.   
That's why they take big titles. They play quite good matches. That's what's changed I think maybe the past two years.   
 Q.  You've had three really good wins to make the second week for the third straight year. Do you feel different coming into this US Open than past US Opens?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, I don't really feel any different. I feel good now. I'm enjoying playing on the court. Enjoying atmosphere maybe little bit more. I have little bit less pressure now. That's maybe what's changed.   
For the rest not much. I've been playing on Armstrong as last year a lot, as well. That's nice. I like that court. I think I haven't lost a match on that court yet. I have a perfect record (smiling).   
 Q.  (Question about Instagram posts and whether it is a Gael problem or Elina problem.)  
ELINA SVITOLINA: That's actually his problem because I tell him we have couple of ideas. I tell him, Come on, we have to post something.   
He's like, Okay, let me win my first round, then we post.   
He won his first, nothing. I'm like, Okay, let me win mine.   
Because we are playing different days, that's why it's a bit tricky. People like to throw some comments or to say that we need to focus on tennis. But I will try to convince him maybe tonight.   
 Q.  Is there something fun you've done on any of your off days, a neighborhood of New York you visited?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, no. Before, let's say, I was going, I like to go and see some stuff. Since I'm with Gael, it's more focus, saving energy. Not much. I know the restaurants, few restaurants around the hotel. That's pretty much it.   
 Q.  Do you feel fresher now as a result, maybe not expending extra energy elsewhere?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: It is different. Maybe in New York actually can work pretty good. Hopefully it can help me. I don't know. It's just different way. I don't mind either way. I prefer sometimes to save some energy. Emotionally maybe I'm feeling little bit fresher and that's why I'm more relaxed. Maybe that's why it works.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT