MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 27, 2021
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  E. SVITOLINA/E. Alexandrova
 7-6, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Tell us some of the keys of this match to have a great result.
 ELINA SVITOLINA:   It was staying in the moment.  It was one of the most important today, because it was quite windy today.  From one side was a little bit tougher to play than the other side, so it was really important for me to keep my feet moving and try to be ready for anything what was going my way.
 Q. You are going to have a rest, and that's good for your next match?
 ELINA SVITOLINA:   Yeah, for sure tomorrow is going to be a day off for me.  I'll try to practice and to be ready, be refreshed, and yeah, be ready for my next match.
 Q. How did you feel out there physically?  How did the wrist hold up?
 ELINA SVITOLINA:   I was actually feeling quite good today.  Still a little bit some issues, some issues here and there, but I'm managing it.
 I take every day as a gift (smiling).  For me, it's important just to focus on my recovery, and that's the priority right now.
 Q. Your next match you have a tough one.  Either you're playing Jo Konta or Petra Kvitova.  Do you want to talk about that potential match over there?
 ELINA SVITOLINA:   Well, they are both big hitters.  I will have to expect that coming my way, and both of them are playing really quick.  So I have to adjust my feet.  I have to be ready.
 I will see who's gonna win and then sit down with my coach and go through the main focus points.
 Q. Can you talk a little bit just in general what you've learned about yourself in this last year?  Obviously not a normal year for any of us.
 ELINA SVITOLINA:   Definitely I learned to enjoy the present moment.  As we can see, everything can happen in one moment.  The world stopped.  It's not only everything about tennis.  There is also, you know, more important things in life.
 Sometimes it happens that you have to quickly refocus, and I think right now I'm just enjoying playing matches.  Winning/losing doesn't matter, you know.  It's the matter of the process.
 I really enjoy working hard.  Hopefully very soon we are gonna be living again in a normal life without the bubbles and seeing more people in the stands, as well.
 So right now, for sure, it takes time so I try to enjoy every positive moment that I get.
 Q. Was it initially hard when they started playing again to like wrap your head around, Oh, is this going to be safe?  Can I go?  Did you have those thoughts in the back of your mind?
 ELINA SVITOLINA:   Yeah, there was many issues, many concerns.  For sure, it's not easy.  I think I'm not the only one who is in this situation.  We have to follow lots of protocols, and it's lots of restrictions which you have to follow.
 For sure it's different, but has been almost a year or something close like that that we are following these rules.  Just try to keep positive and look forward to when we will be back playing with the fans and living a normal life.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT