THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 11, 2019
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/E. Svitolina   
6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  The first two games lasted 20 minutes.  Explain how that was mentally for you.  From there, Simona was seemingly too good today.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I think was really long games.  Yeah, I didn't take my chances.  That's I think was disappointing.  In the beginning, you want to play well, you want to make a statement that you are, yeah, there for the fight.   
Yeah, I think I wouldn't say it was the key for the match, but I think, yeah, I just missed the opportunities to get, yeah, the chances in the match from those two games, I would say, three games.   
 Q.  How nervous were you for your first Grand Slam semifinal?  How much do you think Simona's experience played a factor in the result?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I was nervous, but I think it was the same as on some other matches, like big matches.  I played few, I would say.  I didn't play as many probably as she did because she won a Grand Slam, so she knows how it feels to achieve something major in your career.   
I don't know if it's lack of experience little bit today, but I think she played unbelievable today.  She was moving really good, striking the ball perfectly.  It's little bit of me making poor decisions in some important moments, and then her playing unbelievable which made the score like that.   
 Q.  What was the key of the match?  When do you think you could make things turn around for you?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think the beginning, I would say.  Then also in the second set, I think maybe 3-All I should have play little bit better.  Maybe I made too many unforced errors that game which gave a chance to go forward and get the confidence.   
 Q.  You've obviously played Simona a bunch of times on other surfaces.  Were you surprised at all by the tactics she used today?  Seemed like she was going down the line more frequently than in the past in your matches.  From a tactical, X's and O's perspective, did she do something differently today?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think it's just grass court play.  I saw little bit of her matches earlier rounds.  She was going down the line a lot.  I think is more of a grass court play.   
Of course, on the grass you have to open the court quite early if you can.  Yeah, for me was disappointing little bit.  Few decisions that I made on the important points which I think gave her the confidence to go for more and, yeah, just to play better.   
 Q.  Obviously you're disappointed now, but given the troubles you've had this year with injury, how much can you take away from what you've been able to do here?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, for sure.  It's lots of positives to take.  If someone would tell me I would play semifinals in Wimbledon, I'm not sure I would really believe this.  So, yeah, for sure I'm disappointed, but lots of things to take, lots of memories.   
 Q.  We don't normally see players so soon after.  It's only been 20 minutes.  Are you able to get through what you've done, just how you regrouped after that?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't speak to anyone.  Normally I do everything quickly when I lose, yeah.  I'm very disappointed.  I spend most of the time alone, and the rest of the day, as well.  But don't touch me (smiling).   
 Q.  You hit far fewer winners today than in your previous matches.  How much is that down to Simona?  How hard is it to manipulate the court against someone that comes in so well?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I think it's just two players who are running good.  She obviously gets lots of balls back.  I don't really focus on these kind of stats because she's the player who makes lots of balls back so you have to try to also be patient more than with some other players.   
Yeah, I had to play little bit more aggressive, I would say, to level.  In the end, I think she was getting lots of unbelievable shots, so yeah.   
 Q.  Given all of the injury concerns over the clay season, in this match, having had to put in a lot of physical effort to get to the semifinals, did you feel it at all physically in terms of the ability to keep running, staying in the long rallies?  Are you still behind where you want to be fitness-wise going into the hard court season?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, for sure I'm little bit behind with my strength in my lower body, I would say.  It was good that I had one day after each match.  That definitely helps me to recover and do some strength exercise straight after the match.   
It's not ideal, but we had no other choice.  We had to make my legs stronger.  On grass it's very important to have the stability.  It's one of the most important things.  That's why it's little bit of lack of fitness, I would say.   
But, yeah, I'm looking forward.  I'm going to have few days off and then back practicing, not court probably, I'll have little bit more time.  But in the gym, I have to make my legs stronger, more explosive.  That's definitely one of the things I'm going to focus, yeah, just before U.S.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT