THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 3, 2019
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/M. Gasparyan   
5-7, 6-5 [Ret.]   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How difficult is it in that situation when you have an opponent down at the other end that's injured and obviously incapacitated?  What's your mindset at that stage?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, honestly, I was a little bit shocked.  Yeah, it's never nice to get this when someone is injured like that.  It puts you a little bit off.   
Yeah, I mean, at the end we'd expect that she would go and play.  Yeah, it happened that way and really unfortunate for her.   
 Q.  Just before that happened, were you happy that you were getting right back into the match again?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, for sure.  And I was fighting.  I was just with my head into the battle.  She played some great tennis.  She was really striking the ball really good and playing some great tennis.   
So I had to really fight and try to earn my opportunity.  Yeah, it was good that I held for 5-All, and that was my plan to do.   
 Q.  What was she doing to make it so difficult for you today?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't know.  She was just going for all the shots today, and she played really strong today.  You know, I think she's in general a really good player.   
I know that she was struggling a little bit with injuries, but I think her ranking should be much higher than it actually is.  Yeah, she actually strikes the ball really clean.  Her serve is big.   
I played against her only on grass courts.  So it's tough for me to say clearly, but, yeah, it was tough battle today.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your next opponent, Maria Sakkari?  It's the first time you will face her.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's going to be another tough one.  I know she improved massively for the past years, and she can really play great matches and great tournaments.   
So it's gonna be very important for me to play my best game, to just be ready physically for another battle.  Yeah, it's a third-round match, so it's gonna be another day, another, yeah, another match.   
 Q.  When you went over to the other side of the court, did you offer some sort of words of comfort?  It's hard because you've got an opponent who obviously...  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, you give her some water, because I know when there is cramps you need to drink lots of water.  Your muscles are contracting.  So it's important just to drink lots of fluids.   
So that's why I gave her some water, because no one really did anything.  I mean, we were trying to help, but, yeah, it's tough to react straightaway.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT