BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2019
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
B. ANDREESCU/E. Svitolina   
6-3, 2-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Third set came down to very fine margins, ebbed and flowed.  Can you talk us through that last set?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I think she was playing good tennis.  I was up and down.  I didn't play as I wanted.  I had my chances.  I didn't take them.   
So I think this was, yeah, what didn't work for me.  That's why she took her chance and played better in third set.   
 Q.  Can you comment on the situation with your knee?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I have been struggling.  I have been struggling already since Dubai.  It's, yeah, very disappointing, because, you know, I tried to do everything what's in my power to be ready.  It's a big aspect of my game, the movement.   
Unfortunately, MRI didn't show great results.  So we'll see what to do.  I have been taking tablets to hide the pain, but the problem is still there.  Today it was, yeah -- I mean, we could see I didn't move so well.   
I couldn't allow myself to play 100%, because my movement was not there.   
 Q.  What is the problem exactly?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, there is inflammation.  Yeah, there is some stuff going on.  We'll see later.  Because it's big inflammation, you cannot see so much.   
 Q.  Will you get a scan or something before you go to Miami?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I did already scan when I arrived here.  So I'm going to do one more, because it was getting worse in some point because I was playing three sets.  And even with painkillers, it didn't really -- you know, worked halfway.   
So I have to see.  But Miami, of course, I want to play because I know it's, you know, a big tournament.  And I'm playing good tennis, but if I cannot move properly, it can be a problem.   
 Q.  Just because fans are curious, you sent a tweet out last night what had happened at the hotel.  Is everything okay and what happened, I guess?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, it was a little bit scary at that point, but, yeah, first time that it ever happen to me, something like that.   
But in the end, everything was sorted.  So we were fine.  But still was lots of stress.  And, you know, I think more for Gaël because he was -- it was in the morning, so he was -- it was a day match for him.  It was very stressful because, you know, it's not something that happens to you every day.   
Yeah, but everything is sorted now, and, you know, hopefully will not happen like this anymore.   
 Q.  Bianca, you mentioned that she plays well.  Seems she can do anything really.  No weak spots.  Did you feel the same way?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, she's all-around player.  She plays well.  Today, you know, she took her chance.  It's a good, I think, sign that she's playing great tennis.  And, yeah, she definitely can be the top of the women's tennis and be one of the top players.   
Of course she will need to play lots of tournaments, lots of matches, but at the moment, you know, she's really, really good player.   
Yeah, hopefully I will play more, many more matches against her and hopefully in the future.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT