BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2019
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/M. Vondrousova   
4-6, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Such a tough battle out there, especially given what you had to do yesterday to get through.  How is the body feeling?  What do you think was the key today?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, the key was today just fighting for every ball and just trying to put one extra ball at the net.  It was not a perfect match for me, but I was fighting.   
I was just trying to bring everything what I've got left in my body.  Because I know that tomorrow is a day off, so it's a good thing.  I have some time to recover.  For me, it's important.   
Yeah, the body is feeling, you know, a little bit tired.  It's normal.   
But in the end, I'm very happy.  The physical part that I improved and stayed strong for this two tough matches.   
 Q.  What is it about her game that's quite challenging?  She got off to quite a quick start.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, she is tricky because she has this different spin.  You have to move really good.  I think these conditions here, they really benefit her game.  The ball bounce very high.  That's why I have to move really good.  In the beginning, physically I was not 100% there.  So, you know, that's why I had to really push myself physically today, because the rallies were long.   
I had to really, you know, stay in the match and try to put one extra ball.  In the end, you know, this is what brought me and what gave me the chance.  I took it in the end to win the match.   
 Q.  The spin you mentioned, is that coming from her forehand?  Kind of different on both sides, how it looks to me.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's forehand mostly.  The conditions here, it's bouncy.  And the court gives -- I mean, like Kasatkina, for example, she played really good last year here at the finals.  So it's the same, you know.  It really benefits those kind of players.   
If you really trust your shots, it can be really good shot.  That's why you have to move really good, you have to be perfect with your feet for these kind of balls.  Otherwise, they're gonna fly off your racquet, so that's why.   
 Q.  When you talk about this court and you mentioning Kasatkina and how the court can benefit players like that.  How can this court benefit your game?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think it's a little bit slower than, I don't know, maybe in Dubai.  Somewhere different place.  I just like the atmosphere.  It gives me, you know, the good chance to play well.   
But as we can see, I have to work really hard to go through these kind of matches and each match I have to bring my best game and best physical conditions.  That's why I have to, you know, really push myself.   
I know I'm ready to do this, because we are training for these kind of tournaments and moments.   
 Q.  On a slightly different topic, I don't know if you've heard that the New Haven is moving to a different week in a different location.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah.   
 Q.  This means there is currently no tournament before the US Open.  Do you think that's going to be a problem for you or the other players if there isn't one in that week?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, I think it's better.  It's better for the players, because I don't see actually the point of having premier tournament just before the Grand Slam.  Everyone is preparing for the major.  Yeah, it's good, because I think in New Haven there has been some withdrawals.   
You know, hopefully they can put it somewhere different, because I really like the tournament, and the tournament is very good, very good organized and the courts are great.  So I just couldn't, you know, I think, play there because I was a little bit, you know, worried that I'm not going to be fit for the Grand Slam.   
But, you know, hopefully it will be a good week, and, you know, we can schedule it.   
 Q.  What do you know of Bianca Andreescu?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I know she won the most matches in this season (smiling).  She plays great tennis.  I think she moves good, and I have to be ready.   
But for me, I don't think so much about it right now.  I have to enjoy.  I have to recover.  I have one day.  I'm going to speak with Andy about her game and go from there.   
We saw, I think, just a little bit of her matches, because she's just 18 years old.  So have to be physically,you remember when you were 18 years old and you're playing against these top players at big tourn mentally ready.  Yeah, just try to bring my best game for semifinal.   
 Q.  Do aments, what your mindset was like then compared to what your mindset maybe is now as a more experienced, top player?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think I'm more calmer.  But sometimes, you know, it benefits for young players.  When you're excited, you can play better.  But, you know, it's excitement, it's -- but also, you know, sometimes you make some rash decisions.  You have to be ready, you know, to compete.   
Actually I don't remember so much about me being 18 years old, but I just know now that, you know, all the matches, all the tough matches that I had, you know, this is the experience that helps me now to stay more calm and to work my way into the matches.  You know, even sometimes when you lose the first set you have to work your way.   
You know, it's just a process of, yeah, it's tennis.   
 Q.  Will you be watching some tennis now?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course.   
 Q.  Must be a special day for you?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's a normal day.  It's a good day at work, hopefully for both of us.  It's 2-0 break, so it's good (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT