AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2019
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/M. Keys
6-2, 1-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You did a little bit of a jig after your match.  Was it something you had planned or just spontaneous to the music?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, it's the Shara celebration.  You should Google it.
Q. That third game in the third set, was that kind of the key to the match, do you think?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I didn't want to think that, because, you know, if I would lose, I would probably be a little bit sad or upset with this.  But in the end, I was just trying to stay strong mentally and throw everything at her, and in the end, it worked.
Q. Did you feel that when you, you know, survived all those break points and you held your serve, did you see an effect on her, maybe mentally a letdown?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I didn't see that, that obvious, but I knew that I had to be strong mentally and physically in that point, because the sun was very strong in that side, and I knew that I'm going to have a chance on the next game on her serve.  So I think this was the key, no, just to be there 100%.
Q. Can I ask you about Andrew Bettles, your coach?  What does he bring to your game?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I answer many times already this question.  I don't want to repeat the same thing.  But he understands me very good the way I am.  We have been working for a couple of years now, so he knows all the small things that I like and I don't like.  So it works so far, so I want to keep going.
Q. How does that relationship work?  Because he's very young, and you're the person who employs him.  What happens if he tells you things that you disagree with?  You're ultimately the boss, aren't you?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I am the boss (smiling).  But he's young, as you said, and that's why I think he understands me very good as a person, not only on-court but off-court stuff.  We share the same view on tennis and not only, and that's why I think it's working good.
We have been working with few experienced coaches before, so he's learning very, very quickly.  And of course there is some things that we are not agreeing and it's normal.  You know, we are both humans, and sometimes we are different.  We have different opinion on things.  But in the end, you have to be clear with what I have to do on court.  That's the main thing.  And that's what we're working on.
Q. What have you been most pleased with your performances so far?
ELINA SVITOLINA: So far I think I have been serving really good.  I have been returning solid.  So, you know, I always try to put pressure on the opponent.  That's why I think, yeah, I'm in quarterfinal because I have been solid in all the matches.  It worked really good.  Yeah, that's it.
Q. What gives you confidence that you can break through and make the semifinal, about your game?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think just my mindset in general.  I try to be there all the time with my game, try to bring the best.  And I know that I can challenge good players and I can win.
You know, as I already said, the Singapore week showed that I can be, you know, out there and winning tough matches.  Yeah, just be out there and win big matches.
Q. If I could ask a general question, you just said you and your coach shared many views on the game.  Could you say what some of those views are in terms of your approach?
ELINA SVITOLINA: On tennis or off the court?
Q. I thought you said on tennis.
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, the way that we see how I have to play on court, how I have to behave, how my mindset has to be.  You know, the way that I have to build the point, the way that I have to be aggressive.  You know, small things like the technical things, as well.
It's very important, you know, because if you're not agreeing with your coach, and then the pressure points are, they are the key.  So you know you are always going to have in the back of your mind that you're not agree with the coach and maybe you start to doubt yourself.  So that's why he brings me that confidence that I have to, you know, that I'm there and, you know, I'm confident with my shots, as well.
Q. You have made the quarterfinals a few times now at the Grand Slams.  You haven't progressed further than that.  But do you feel like you're ready to take that next step, and winning the WTA Final, has that sort of contributed to that?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Gave me huge boost of confidence, so I don't think about the other, the past anymore.  I only look forward.  I look for next challenge.  I try to win as many matches as I can, as many titles as I can, and this is the goal for the year.
Q. You talk about mindset and being there a lot.  Is that something you have improved a lot, like the mental side of the game?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I have been working on this for past two years.  Been trying different things, different techniques, and trying to find what works for me.
At some stages of my career, some things work; some doesn't.  I always try to find the motivation.  My family helps me a lot to always pushes me to go for more.
Tennis is that kind of sport that you always get challenged almost every week, every tournament, every match.  So you have to be ready to just give 100% each match.  And of course if it's not your day today, you might lose, but in the end, you gave everything.
Q. Can you just talk about the two players that you might play?  I guess they would be very different matches.
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, they have different game styles, so that's why let's wait who's gonna win.  I played against both of them, so we'll see how it goes.
First I want to enjoy the day today.  I did a great job today, so I don't really want to think about the next match now.
Q. What do you think about the interest in your personal life at this tournament, your relationship?  Do you just laugh at it?  What do you think about the interest in your personal life?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, there have been lots of talking about it.  I don't know -- I mean, I know why, because obviously he's also tennis player.  But I want to put it aside.
You know, when I step on court, when I step on the practice court, tennis court, doesn't matter, match or practice, I always think only about what I have to do on court.  And then, you know, it stays aside.  He's there to support me.  That's pretty much it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT