AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 12, 2019
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you talk about your leadup into this tournament.  Where do you feel your game is?  Is your game where you want it to be as the tournament is about to start?
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's been, like, one week and a half that I've been here.  Had good practice and, you know, I feel ready.
There will be lots of tough matches, so that's why I have to just stay positive, yeah, be ready for what the tournament holds for me.
Q. How much do you know about your first-round opponent?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I practiced with her actually when I got here Monday.  I know little bit her game style.  It's a bit different because she makes lots of slice, she plays one-handed.  Is always a game style -- there's always a game plan that I will have to execute.
Yeah, just take one point at a time and see how it goes.
Q. Do you feel like your objective of being world No. 1 is closer than it's ever been coming into this year?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I played great in the end of the season.  But, you know, of course, the main goal for me is to be No. 1 and win a Grand Slam.  But I try to, you know, don't think so much about it, don't have this pressure because, you know, everyone is fighting for the same thing.  There is enough pressure that's put on us.
Yeah, it motivates me, of course.  But, you know, I don't think so much about it.  For me, it's just about playing good tennis, being 100% ready for each match.
Q. You played a practice match against Wozniacki this week.  How good is she looking?  She has a chance winning the title again?
ELINA SVITOLINA: For her?
Q. Yes.
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I don't know.  Maybe it's better to ask her how she feels.  For me, it's tough to say.
She plays good.  We always have a good hit with her.  She makes lots of balls the same as me.  We always have tough matches.  For me, it's very tough to say.
She's a good player.  Definitely winning here last year for her was a massive deal.
Q. Of the four slams, where do you rank the Australian Open in terms of your comfort level?  Which slam are you most comfortable with?  Where does the AO fall in that?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I like to come back to Melbourne.  Playing here, it's very relaxed, I would say all the slams, because I think the city and the atmosphere, the fans that make this event more special.
Yeah, the way the Australian Open is, it's more relaxing than the other ones.  So it's pretty high on the list, I would say.  But still maybe Roland Garros is, like, my home slam, I would say.
Q. As you come in obviously with the way you finished last season, do you feel more ready to win a slam now than you did 12 months ago?  Is it the same?  What's your mindset with respect to that?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, I don't think about those things because last year I was coming after winning in Brisbane.  This year, you know, just two months ago I had the biggest title.  So it is different.  Each year, each Grand Slam is very, very different.  You don't think so much about the past.  It's gone.  You're just moving forward.  That's for me the priority.
I always try to, you know, keep positive.  Of course, I want to play better the Grand Slams.  But I try to do something different.  I try to add something to my game or to my preparation that will help me.  But each Grand Slam, you know, has a different deal.
Q. Can you give an example of something you're trying to add to your game this year?
ELINA SVITOLINA: For this year, I try to be more aggressive, try to build more from the baseline.  Just in general, you know, I try to improve everything.  Each year it's about learning experience, learning from your past tough experiences, I would say.
You know, I had some tough matches last year in a Grand Slams, which I had to win, but I didn't go through.  I didn't execute well.  That's why it's about making chances and then taking them.
You have to be ready for everything.
Q. Physically, how are you feeling?  Last year you had some niggles coming into the tournament.  How is it this year?
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's fine.  I mean, still have little bit of pain here and there.  It's normal for athletes to have some injuries.  It's going to happen because there's lots of pressure in a Grand Slam, especially first Grand Slam of the year, I think for everyone.  Everyone is little bit struggling here and there.  But you have to be, you know, patient and just take one day at a time and go from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT