ROGERS CUP
August 9, 2018
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/J. Konta
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. When we met you yesterday, you seemed shocked with what happened on the court.  Was it hard to bring back your focus for today?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I was just trying to put it behind me.  Of course, not every day that you experience this.  Obviously, you know, I had to really mentally be strong and put it behind.
You know, it happened.  I had no choice.  Just had to stay calm and be ready for today's match.
Q. What do you think made the difference today that you were able to get it done in two?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Definitely we had some tough matches in the past.  I knew what I had to expect from her.  I had to be ready for a very tough match.  I think I produced really good and high-level tennis first and second set.  Then she was playing well, I thought.
In the second set, the level was really good.  I felt that I'm getting better and better.  Then in the end I took the risk and I got rewards for that.  I was really happy the way I handled that.
Q. She had to finish the match against Vika earlier in the day.  Did you sense any fatigue from her?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I even thought it could be advantage for her because she played four, five games, so she was ready straight going into the match with probably, like, I don't know, mentally more warmed up.  That's what I thought.  I was like, Okay, c'mon, you have to be ready, she will be straight in the match.
I think that's really helped me, motivated me, yeah, to start really strong.  I think first set was really good for me, as well.  I was strong mentally.
Q. It seems you're playing pretty well in Canada, building a relationship with the fans here.  Do you feel that love from the fans from Montreal and Toronto?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, definitely.  When I always come to the tournament that I won, this year being couple of times here, I feel the difference.  Here it's just really nice.  The fans are very sweet.  They're very welcoming, as well.
When I've been training here earlier in the week, there's lots of people watching, lots of people cheering.  It's something that matters a lot to all the players.  It's something that motivates us to play better, to have better attitude.  I think it's great to have these kind of fans.
Q. You played on Court 9 to accommodate some of the scheduling issues.  What did you make of being out on that court?  Did you like the atmosphere?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think the atmosphere was good.  I was really focused on playing point by point, and didn't really think about I'm playing Court 9.  I just said to myself that I have to deserve to play on center court, on the better court maybe, if I get a win.
I tried to find the motivation in those kind of things.  When you are put in difficult situations, because we were playing without the Hawk-Eye, I heard few people complaining about it, about the calls.  So, you know, I always try to find the motivation in any situation.  I think it's helped me a lot in the past.  Yeah, will try to continue doing the same way.
Q. Your thoughts on playing Sabalenka or Mertens?  And did you see any of the Wozniacki match?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I saw the last two points of the match.  I was warming down in the gym.
They're both strong players.  We'll see who's going to win.  They still have to play their match.  It's going to be a good match for both of them.
Just try to recover, have some dinner, just chill and maybe watch few games.  Yeah, just recover and be ready for quarterfinal.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT