ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2018
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. BUZARNESCU/E. Svitolina
6-1, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. How much did you know about her before the match, and what do you think she was able to do to get the better of you today?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I didn't know much about her because she raised really quickly.  I watched little bit video of her playing, so I knew little bit what to expect.
But, you know, today, you know, really I was off and couldn't find my rhythm, my game today, and was really struggling.  In the other hand, she was playing great tennis.  You know, she was really, really on the ball today.
And, you know, I couldn't -- yeah, I couldn't do much today to get a win.  It was not enough.
Q. What are some of the challenges when you actually face someone who's rising fast, you haven't seen them before because you're obviously focusing on your own preparation as you're coming through.  What are some of the challenges that the top players face at the moment?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Definitely it's a challenge, but, you know, we have to deal with those kind of things.  And this is not the thing that, you know, I have to really pay attention that much.  You know, I have to really deal with it.  It's tough.
But, you know, I had to be ready, and today my game was not there.  And, you know, she completely deserved to get the win today.
Q. Any sense of why your game wasn't connecting for you today?  Was it just feeling like an off day or did it feel like something was not right in your preparations, or conditions, or something?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No.  You know, it's tough to answer it now.  I didn't speak with my team yet to see what was going on.
And, yeah, I wish I could play better.  I wish I could move better and, you know, do the better selection of shots.  But unfortunately, today it was, yeah, it was tough, and I couldn't fight through the tough moments.
I don't know.  You know, it's something that I need to work on and take the positive things from today and, you know, move from there.
But, you know, she was really -- she was playing great tennis, you know, that's why, you know, she -- she was better, and that's why she got a win today.
Q. Bother you that she's lefty?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, not really.  You know, she's a good player, and it doesn't matter if she would be right-handed or left-handed.  But it didn't really matter today.
Q. You've talked openly about working to try to translate what you're doing at the tour level to Grand Slam events.  Do you feel that this being a Grand Slam, that atmosphere being different, was a factor for you today?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, not really.  If we would play normal event, and I would play the same way and she was playing good tennis, I mean, it didn't really matter if it would be in the Roland Garros or it would be in -- I don't know -- Madrid or Rome.
You know, it's just -- yeah, I couldn't find my rhythm today and, you know, I couldn't fight.  You know, it's really, really bad for me that I couldn't really go through the tough moments with a good attitude today.
So, yeah, I wish I could do something different today, but, yeah, it's done now.
Q. It's been a bit of a peculiar start because, obviously, you played on the Sunday, then you had days off and then played well and then now.  Do you feel that it would have been better not to have the Sunday and just start the Slam on a Monday and have the traditional day off each way through?
ELINA SVITOLINA: You know, I cannot choose those kind of things.  I just have to accept.  I have to go from there and adjust my preparation, my game.
I cannot say that this is what made my game worse.  You know, it was like this, and I had to accept.  There was other players had the same as with me.
So I don't think it's made a big difference for me.
Q. As one of the top seeds, though, were you asked to play on the Sunday?  Did you have a choice to play?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No one asked me.
Q. What are your plans from here?  Where are you going, and what are your plans between now and whatever your first grass court tournament is?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I'm going to have some time off now to recover physically.  Of course, after Grand Slam, I like to take time off to recover mentally as well.  It's very important.  And then train on grass.  Hopefully I can get a wildcard to Birmingham because I forgot to sign in.  Yeah.
So hopefully Birmingham is the plan and then Wimbledon.
Q. Lots of observers were saying that you could win here.  I realize that that won't have affected you.  But you thought you could win here too?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I didn't consider myself as -- you know, there is good players who are probably in better form than me that played better clay court tournaments.
I don't think I -- I mean, of course I believed that I can play well in the Grand Slams, but I didn't really think that, you know, I -- that I'm the favorite, you know, number one favorite at this tournament.  But, you know, I don't want to think those ways.
But there is lots of girls who are playing more consistent -- played more consistent than me on clay than I did.
Q. You were so optimistic just a week ago here about this would be different; this would be different.  What can you do now to -- you know, next year will you think it will be different again then?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, it happens.  It's days like this, they can happen.  Next time, hopefully I can handle it better, I can handle those kind of matches better, have better chances.
I had the chances today, but I didn't take them.  So, you know, I have to work really hard next time to don't lose those moments.
So, you know, just go from there.  Cannot do anything now.  Just have to go back on court and work my way back.  And, you know, just try to be positive and, yeah, work for my next chance.
Q. Tell me, do you think there is a difference between this Court No. 1 and Lenglen?  For instance, that such a beautiful game like today should be on Lenglen?  Would you play better there today?
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's tough to think if it would be better, but definitely it's different court.  And I think we saw also the match before me was a bit of a different match.
It's different, but I don't think it would affect my game today.  Probably I played two matches there, I would be more used to it.  But, you know, yeah.  Could have been, maybe.
Q. We don't know a lot about Buzarnescu because she's new at this level tour.  After playing her today, what do you think her potential is?  Because she's been rising very quickly up the sport.
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think she's playing good tennis.  I didn't see much of her on hard court, so I don't know how she's playing.  I saw her results that she's playing well.
So, yeah, I don't know.  It's tough to say.  She was playing great tennis today.  So if she can handle all the matches and all the pressure, then of course she can be high in the ranking as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT