ROGERS CUP
August 11, 2018
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. STEPHENS/E. Svitolina   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think went wrong today for you?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think I was little bit, I don't know, not there 100%.  She started really good.  I was up and down.  I think that's why I didn't give myself a good chance to play well today.   
She was playing good tennis.  In important moments, she was really on it.  That's why I think made the difference because we had lots of tough games.  Even like first set, I came back and I had the chance to go back on 5-4, so...  In the second set, the same.   
Yeah, I think she was just better in the important moments.   
 Q.  When you say you were not quite there, was it physically, mentally?  Were you tired?  Can you explain?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's little bit of everything.  It happens, you know.  We are humans.  We don't feel 100% every day.  I was just trying to fight through it.   
But unfortunately today was not enough.  She was striking the ball pretty well.  She was there.  Important moments, you know, it decided everything.   
 Q.  There were a couple of games in particular where there were lots of breakpoints.  Did she do something differently to manage those moments?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: She was just more solid, as I said.  In those moments, she was more solid today than me.  That's made the difference.  She was leading, then I was coming back, then again I was up and down.  That's the only thing that made a difference for me today.   
 Q.  How was your level of energy before and during the match?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I was just trying to be as normal as I always feel on court.  Yeah, I was just not 100% mentally and physically today.  The only thing I can do is recover and be ready for next tournament, yeah, analyze what I did wrong.   
She played great tennis in the important moments.  All the credit to her.  I'm sure she would be happy with the moments she handle when the games were long.   
 Q.  Is it because of the schedule for the last days?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No, I don't think so.  I don't really pay attention to those kind of moments.  Of course, I got back yesterday in my room, like, 1:00 after all the physio and massage.  But I don't think this is the case.   
We are humans, so it's normal sometimes to feel a bit worse than another day.  Today unfortunately it happened in semifinal.  It's very disappointing.   
The only thing I can do now is recover and be ready to play my best in Cincinnati.   
 Q.  You mentioned at the start of the week you were disappointed with the grass court season, Wimbledon.  What positives do you take from this week?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Lots of positives.  I had a really tough draw from the beginning.  I beat good players this week.  We can see that I'm finding my game back.  Definitely this tournament shows I'm on the right path, I'm feeling much, much better.   
 Q.  It's been a long time since you played her.  Does she play now with more confidence on the court?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: The only time we played I don't remember.  It was maybe four years ago.  I don't remember much about that match.   
Today was different scenario.  I was just trying to play my best.  Unfortunately it didn't happen today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT