INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 19, 2018
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/A. Kontaveit
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions?
Q. For everything she put against you, you had the way to counterattack it, to upgrade the game.  Was it something that you planned before or you found it on the way during the match, the way to counter everything she put in the match?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, that's definitely the goal for each match, to be ready for things that your opponent gives you.
So, you know, I work for these kind of matches, so when I have --  I work on every day.  So when my opponent tries to hit everything, I have an answer.  And when my opponent tries to, you know, play maybe a little bit more into court so I can attack, so that's an answer.  You know, I work on this.
Today, I think I was very solid with my performance.  And this was, you know, was really, really good.  I'm very proud of this, that I could stay really consistent all match.
Q. You have a preference for tomorrow?  You can have the match here in Roma with Simona or a new challenger against Maria.  What do you prefer, if you prefer anybody?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't have preference.
Definitely it's going to be very interesting to play Maria tomorrow because I didn't play against her for a long time.  So, it's gonna be interesting.  And, that's the only thing.
Q. There's obviously a lot of press around both your opponents.  One is No. 1; one is coming back after, you know, what happened.  Do you feel that this helps you, playing without pressure?  You're reigning champion here.  But still, not having all the attention on you helps you play light-minded?
ELINA SVITOLINA: There are always going to be someone else.  And I know I'm not alone in the draw.  So, it's normal that people have attention.
And, of course, I had pressure from the beginning of the tournament.  So, you know, it's a lot that -- there was expectations, as well.  And everyone were talking like, Oh, if she gonna play final, how she gonna play and how she gonna handle it?
You know, I have my own journey.  And I look only, you know, to my path.
Q. Thinking back to last year, the same stage.  How would you compare the feelings you have?  How do you watch the next match, the final, being defending champion and being first time?
ELINA SVITOLINA: It's definitely different from -- Last year I was more, you know, gaining experience, gaining confidence.
This year, you know, I tried to think that this is a part of my game, a part of me.  And, you know, I always try work on this.
And I think this performance that I showed that I -- you know, is really good.  And I'm, you know, happy the way I handled and the way I played today under pressure.  And all this week, you know, against some really good players.  So, you know, this is what I have been looking for and I did it well.
So, I know there is one match to go.  And I will give my best shot tomorrow.
Q. I think like your ball has a different sound this year, with respect to last year.  It sounds, like, fuller and better.
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I changed the strings, so maybe that's why.
But I hit stronger, as well.
Q. Yeah.  That's the implication.  What would you say were the best improvements in your game, looking back to last year and at this tournament?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think little bit of everything.  I'm hitting stronger.  I'm physically stronger.  I'm serving better.
So, I don't know, if you just look at the stats, you can see difference.  I'm playing just more complete player.
And I think, for me, there is still lots of lots of things that I have to improve.  But I think, with my team, we're clear what we have to do on the practice court and where we have to pay more attention.
So that's why, you know, it's very important for me to be here outside of court to see what I have to improve so then, you know, I can really manage my game better.
Q. I was wondering if this is the best moment of your career in terms of confidence?
ELINA SVITOLINA: You cannot compare anything to --
You know, last year I played good.  And when I won here, I had lots of confidence, of course.
But, you know, when you go on court, it's very important to still, you know, put lots of energy into your game.
So I try to, you know, to have confidence all the time and to be part of my game.  That's very important.
Because, you know, our season is so long, you know, it's lots of ups and downs.  So that's why it's very important for me to have it all the time.
Q. The best-case scenario means you will win tomorrow and it's a second in a row.  I know you are looking for beating some records.  The record is four win in a row.
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I play the final tomorrow.  You know, at first it's gonna be very special if I'm gonna win.
But also, you know, I'm very proud of myself already that I reached the final.  You know, it was really tough, from the beginning, from the first match.
And for me, it was very important to stay calm, to try to -- you know, to realize what I have to do on court.  And, you know, I think I did good.
But I'm still not 100% satisfied because I have to play tomorrow.  And, you know, it's very important for me to be ready and be there with my game.
Q. But if you're going to win tomorrow, don't you think that it will deserve a special tattoo for Rome?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, probably if I win five times here, I will do a tattoo here.  But ...
Q. Five times.
ELINA SVITOLINA: Five times.
Q. It's a promise?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Promise, (laughing).
Yeah.  I will give the best shot.  Actually would be amazing if I would win tomorrow.  But, you know, I have to do lots and lots of work tomorrow to get a win.
Q. Would you do anything differently with respect to last year like going into tomorrow?
ELINA SVITOLINA: If I were to --
Q. For the match, for the final?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No.  You know, my preparation never change from the first round until the last round.  I always have same routine.
You know, don't really change anything.  I mean, I warm up.  I speak with my team.  Just prepare for the match.  But, nothing really change from the -- if I play first round or if it's the final.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT