INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 18, 2018
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/A. Kerber
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Questions, please.
Q. How does it feel to go against an opponent like that?  You've won five times in a row on your favorite surface.  Does it give you more pressure or confidence?
ELINA SVITOLINA: You know, I don't think about those kind of things.  Because it can play a little bit on your mind.  And I just take one point at a time, one game at a time.  And that's what matters the most to me.
You know, she played good tennis matches earlier rounds.  So, you know, I was expecting there would be a tough match.  She had a good start, as well, in our match.
So, it was -- yeah, it was, I think, good match, you know.  I had to really step up and play really aggressive in important moments.  And that's, I think, what was the key for today.  I played really good on the important points.  That's what made a difference.
Q. You're now for the second time in this position, you're defending a Premier 5 title.  Last time you defended it successfully.  This time you're in the semifinals again.  How much of a boost of confidence does that give you to handle this?  Not necessarily you've been used to in the past, but now you are growing into that sort of role.  How much confidence or satisfaction does that give you?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Definitely gives me lots of confidence.  But, this is one more step in the right direction.  I'm playing good tennis.  I'm happy on court.  I'm moving good.  And, you know, I'm happy the way I'm handling, so far, the pressure.
And that's important for me, all those small things which makes a big difference.  And that's what I've been striving for.  And to know, hopefully, I can do the same in the next match.
You know, it's experience.  I'm learning.  You know, I'm still young.  And for me, it's important to enjoy, of course, first of all.
Q. Even for a top player, you have already a good record against Top 10 players and other top players.  I know you said you prepare for every match in the same way, take one match at a time.  But does a match like this feel different knowing you have to be, you know, at this level or, you know, you want to win?
ELINA SVITOLINA: For every player these days, everyone can play really good tennis and can really damage -- can give you some problems.  So, that's why for every match I try to prepare and try to be ready 100%.
You know, I've been doing it for so many years.  And this is my way, what I do, what brings me success.  Or brought me success before and bringing success now.
So, you know, I have to do on court.  It's just a matter of how well I can prepare on that day and how -- you know, how ready I can be.  So, you know, every day's different.  And I try to give the best shot.
Q. You just said you go match by match, don't think a lot about the opponent.  Since you are going to face either Kontaveit or Wozniacki next round, are you going to isolate yourself and stick to things you do every time or maybe watch the match, prepare differently depending on the opponent you are going to face?
ELINA SVITOLINA: First, I'm going to --  You know, I know both players that I'm gonna face next round.  So, I know the game they play.  They play differently.
So, of course, I'm gonna have a plan for my next match.  But for me, it's very important to be ready physically, to be ready mentally to fight and to be ready to present my best game.  That's very important.
And then it doesn't matter who's on the other side of the net.  I have to be there and do something.  Always been doing this. And this is, yeah, what I'm trying to do each match.
Q. Do you think this being more about you and less about the opponent you're facing that helped you overcome initial difficulties yesterday and kind of some tricky long games today?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I do it for so many years already.  It's not only I do it here or somewhere else, like reason.  I'm doing it for so many years.  And it's very important to bring your game.  You don't watch what your opponent do.
You know, of course, you know -- you analyze what she does well, what way you have to play more maybe little bit.  Everyone has their own weaknesses.  But, you know, for me, it's very important to, yeah, to be out there 100% focused and playing good tennis.
If I'm not playing well or if I'm physically not ready, you know, it's tough.
Q. Can we talk about your serve for a second?  It seems, at least by the numbers, that your serve this year has improved quite a bit.  Getting a fair amount more aces this year.  Are you noticing that yourself or is that -- if I just present you the numbers, would that surprise you at all?  Have you noticed that it's been much more reliable, better shot this year?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, my team noticed that we improved.  But still working really, really hard this part of my game.
I've been serving really good since Brisbane.  Of course, there have been some matches where I wish I could serve better.  But, you know, we are -- I think we're making one step at a time and we're moving the right direction.  We can see the results already that I'm quite consistent with my serve.
So that's what we've been working on.  You know, we can see the results, so we're trying to add something extra to this.  And, you know, it's a work in progress, always.
Q. Obviously, looks like you feel well here in Rome generally.  Is there something about the city?  I think in Madrid you had a friend and family coming as well, no, this and next week?  You have people around you.  Anything this week?  I feel good here, I'm fine, everything's good?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah.  I don't have my family here, but I just like the city.  I like the fans, the atmosphere here, you know.
It's so nice to play in front of Italian fans.  It's very different to the other tournaments.  And that's what makes this tournament very special.
You know, I'm that kind of person that always, you know, very pumped (smiling).  So, that's why I think it suits me.
Q. You said earlier you're very young, but you've also said you've been doing this --
ELINA SVITOLINA: Not "very young." But, you know, I'm 23, (laughing).  There is already like 15 years old out there.
Q. You said you've been doing this for a long time, as well.  As a tennis player, do you feel young or old or ...
ELINA SVITOLINA: Sometimes physically I feel like a grandmother.  But, yeah, there's some days like that.
I mean, I feel that I have the experience now little bit more than even last year. You know, I don't think so much about it because I'm happy the way it is now.
Because when I was young, definitely, you know, coming up as a player sometimes you have advantage, no one knows what you're going to present in the match.
But, you know, at the same time, it's very tough when you're young player.  It's very different.
And, you know, I'm happy the way I am now and the experience that I've had for the last years.  And I think it helps me a lot.
And, you know, I enjoy.  I enjoy playing under tough moments, you know, where we're training for these kind of moments.  So that's why, you know. It's just a process.
Q. Not today, but you normally wear a lot of caps.  How big is your cap collection?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Ha-ha.  Yeah.  Not today, though.
It's quite big, yeah.  I love caps.  I don't know, just sometimes more privacy for me.  And, yeah.
Because we are playing in front of so many people and we meet so many people, sometimes you need privacy.  So that's why I wear them.  I love hats.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT