NATURE VALLEY CLASSIC
June 20, 2018
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/A. Cornet   
6-4, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  I think I'm right in saying that that's your first quarterfinals on grass?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Not on grass because I think I played one in Holland.  But here in Birmingham, it's the first time.  So finally I made it through, fourth or fifth attempt.  I'm happy the way I played today, the two matches here.   
 Q.  Are you starting to feel comfortable on grass?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, last year even Wimbledon I played fourth round.  You kind of just not feel good on grass and play fourth round.  So I'm working hard to feel comfortable.   
 Q.  Would you say that your game hadn't really clicked on grass before Wimbledon last year?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: That's a tough question because mentally I was more struggling more than anything else.  In general, I'm getting better.  Hard court, clay court, I'm more consistent.  That's why I think I'm playing better, more consistent all the tournaments.   
 Q.  Is that something that's very much in your mind, to be able to play well on all surfaces?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course.  That's the goal for everyone, to play well, to be consistent because the season is very, very long.  So that's why I know, to be on top of the women's ranking, you have to play really good seasons and every tournament.  Doesn't matter what surface.   
 Q.  You're now in the quarterfinal.  At what stage do you start thinking I want to win the title?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, it's always the goal.  When I come into the tournament, it's always the goal for me to win the tournament.  I take it one day at a time, but in my mind I always have the highest goals for every tournament I enter.   
 Q.  You mentioned that recovery is the most important thing in between games.  How do you keep the level up?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Lots of massage, lots of treatments, protein shakes.  Recovery is very important.  Doing lots of stretches, working hard in the gym, but keep it easy when you're off the court.  That's for everyone.  Everyone has their own small tricks to recovery.   
 Q.  Do you watch footage of your opponent?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: That's the job of my coaches to do that and just to give me small things, what I have to do.  But in general for me, it's very important to bring my best game each match I play.   
 Q.  I know you've been watching some of the World Cup.  You've been posting on social media.  Is it good to have a distraction like that when you're off the court?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Course.  Tennis, of course it's important thing for me, but, you know, you always have to have something off court.  Tennis is my job, and off court, I'm just another person.  I'm social.   
 Q.  Are there any teams you're following?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: There's a few teams.  I mean, I don't have one team that I'm supporting.  But there's a few that when they play, always rooting for them.   
 Q.  Can you give us one or two?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: England definitely is one, Brazil, Argentina.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT