NATURE VALLEY CLASSIC
June 19, 2018
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/D. Vekic   
6-1, 3-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That looked a little tricker than you were expecting.  Your thoughts on the match?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Actually I'm very, very happy for the first match on grass here.  I think it was great solid performance.  I was expecting that Donna would try to fight back and try to find a way into the match.  So otherwise, you know, it would be probably a little bit unexpected that I was 6-1, 3-1.  She had to step up her game and to get back.  So that's why I'm very happy the way I was playing in general.   
 Q.  You play Alizé Cornet in the next round. How will you approach this game?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Recover quickly because first match on grass is very tricky.  You have to be really ready.  You'll be little bit sore here and there.  Recovery is very important for me.  And then, yeah, just go there and play my game.  Nothing special.   
 Q.  You said before the tournament you had to come out and stretch injury free.  How did you find your movement for your first match on grass?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I think me and my coach, we went through a little bit that match.  We were both happy the way I moved.  Tomorrow's going to be different if, yeah, I'm playing tomorrow.  It's going to be, yeah, something different.  But for today, definitely we are happy the way I was handling the movement and the tough points, so...   
 Q.  You train a lot in Roehampton, you have an English coach, and you've been making tea.  Are you an honorary Brit?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, I consider myself a little bit English.  But getting there, getting there.   
 Q.  What are the weirdest things to do with when you're in England so often?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: The weirdest?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't know.  I really enjoy playing in England.  This is going to be my first time I'm going to play almost at home, yes.  My place is just so close, next door to Wimbledon.  That's why it's going to be something new.  I'm going to just try to enjoy.  I always like the atmosphere, the Wimbledon atmosphere, the small village there, always the decorations, the Wimbledon decorations.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT