ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2018
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/A. Tomljanovic   
7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  How did you turn this first set around, because 5-1 down and it looked it was tough to get into it, and suddenly you found the way tactically more than anything?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Found myself, and I was fighting to get back into the match, and I think for me it was very important, you know, to play an extra ball over the net, and then, you know, to fight, to fight until the end, you know, until the last point of the first set, to find my game, and this was the key.   
I think, you know, I did it pretty good, and then my level was getting better and better.   
 Q.  The longer the points go on, you seem to get better and better.  Do you enjoy that situation, or do you prefer to lead from the front next time?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't really mind.  You know, it depends on the opponent, really.  You know, sometimes it's better to play few more balls, to feel the ball like today probably was better option, to hit one extra ball so I could find my rhythm.   
But, you know, I don't really think about those things.  I just try to find my way into the match and some points were shorter in the second set; some were longer.  I was trying, you know, to build my game, and I think in the end it was -- yeah, it was good for the first round.   
 Q.  In the first set what do you feel let you down?  Do you feel like you were down mentally or do you feel like execution-wise something let you down?  Where do you feel things didn't go your way the first half hour or so?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I don't know.  It's probably a mixture of things.  She was striking the ball well.  I was a little bit off, sometimes going for too much.   
It was a mixture of things.  But, you know, I don't really focus on those kind of moments.  Of course I want to prevent doing this again next match, so that's why I'm going to go back on court in ten minutes and work on my game.   
 Q.  You're coming in in great form.  Is there anything you're doing differently this year to convert the great tour form into better results at the majors?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah.  It's a buildup of matches, tournaments, confidence.  We are trying to do all our, you know, best to be ready physically, mentally.  To be ready for a Grand Slam is always the goal, the main goal for me.  And that's, you know, I try to do everything what's in my power to play my best game on the Grand Slams.  You know, it's up and down, but in the end, you know, we are doing our best.   
 Q.  I think you just said you're going to go practice after this?  How often do you do that, practice after matches?  In general, it seems like you're putting a lot of time into different things.  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, definitely.  You know, I know that I have to put lots of hours on court to get better and, you know, for me there is only way to get better is to practice and, you know, to get better, to, you know, to improve my game each day, each match.   
You know, tennis is not only about one match.  You know, there is lots of matches.  Even if I finish the tournament early here, you know, it's not the end of the world.  We're gonna have next tournament next week on grass, and, you know, there is lots of tournaments.  You know, I'm 23 years old, so there is lots of tournaments ahead of me.   
I have a big future.  I don't only focus on, you know, that it's the last match of my life.   
 Q.  Is that the mindset you always had, or is that something you have been working on lately because expectations have been raising for you?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: That's definitely what we have been working on with my team, and, you know, we have the same mentality.  You know, that's our work, and that's how we are trying to get better.  That's the way that we are working.   
 Q.  Your next match is only in three days.  What are you going to do?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Go home and come back...  (Laughter.)   
Well, I'm going to practice, I'm going to get back on court, probably maybe, you know, then I will go sightseeing a little bit, and come back and train again.  Do the same routine.   
It's good for my fitness to get some rest, and then, you know, come back stronger and then, you know, be fresh.  I'm going to chat with my team what's the best to do, we didn't really speak about it yet.  I have to stay really focused, and it's good I'm going to have a couple days off and physically I can be ready for next match.   
 Q.  Obviously this is the only slam that starts on a Sunday, and it means you have the three days.  Is that a good thing, or because you like to be on court a lot, would you prefer your next match to be in two days rather than three?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, no one really ask me what I want, so, you know, I have no choice.  We have to accept and go from there.  So that's why, you know, I have to accept.  I have to, yeah, to find a way what's the best way for me to prepare for my next match.  We're gonna speak with my team and see what's the best option to do.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT