AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2018
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/M. Kostyuk
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was a very nice moment at the net.  I saw a picture a couple minutes ago.  You seem really proud of her.  Is that true?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, of course.  You know, she did an amazing job here.  You know, going through the qualifying, winning one match in qualifying is already good.  Winning two matches is, like, awesome.  Three matches, passing qualifying, is something unbelievable, and then beating two girls playing good level.  You know, she did an amazing job.
I think she remember this moment for all her life.  So that's why.  You know, it was very special.  Of course, it was a little bit, like, strange for me to play against her in the third round, but in the same time, it's, you know, I think it's very special.  Yeah, a moment for both of us.
Q. She said after the match that she felt like it was a lesson from you.  She got a free lesson.  Which usually would have been very expensive.
ELINA SVITOLINA: It was expensive, because we play for, like, for prize money (smiling).
Q. What would be, I guess, the one lesson or piece of advice you would give to her at the moment?
ELINA SVITOLINA: You know, I'm not good with these kind of things because I don't want to seem like a "wise ass."
She has a great team around her, and she's already a great player.  I'm not sure she really needs, you know, an advice from me.  She has her mom, she has coaches who are around her who they do amazing job.  So, you know, it's nothing really to add.
She just needs to, you know, to get back on court and work.  That's, you know, for every player is the same.
Q. Did you think this could be a dangerous match for you?  Because she's 15, she has nothing to lose, and in her previous matches, she really hit the ball very freely.  Did you think coming in that you really had to be on your game?
ELINA SVITOLINA: You know, before the match, I tried to really don't put anything in my head about if I win, if I lose.  I just decided that, you know, she deserves to be there in the third round as much as me.  You know, she's 15 years old.  I don't really think about it, because, you know, I don't have to put this kind of pressure in my head.
Yeah, she can play well, because she beat good players in this tournament.  You know, I was expecting this, that she gonna come out and play free and, you know, be really on the ball.
For me, my goal was just, you know, to don't rush things and, yeah, do what I do every day.
Q. How are you feeling other than probably a bit hot?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, it was a bit hot, but, yeah, I'm very happy that I could, you know, just go out there, do my job, and finish in two sets and be -- yeah, it was a good day for me.  I will have extra time for recovery, which I'm going to have, for sure.
Q. I was wondering, are you still in touch with Justine Henin sometimes?
ELINA SVITOLINA: No.
Q. How much credit would you give her for maybe the advices that she gave to you and that made you make big strides?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, you know, we work together in 2016.  It was, you know, time pass.  Change the team a couple times.
Of course, you know, what she brought to my game, of course, made me better player, but now I work a little bit differently.  Of course, you know, lots of things been changed.  Yeah, you know, the work we did, of course, there is some part -- each coach I have been working with has a big impact on my game.  And, yeah, it was important for me to hear her advice and, yeah, was very happy that I had this opportunity to work with her.
Q. What biggest advice was it, or what most impact did she have concretely on your game?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, there was lots of things.  It's very tough to mention only one thing, because the game, tennis, there is so many things that you have to be good at.  There is no such thing as one thing, you know, like your serve can be good and you can win lots of matches.  You have to be consistent.  There is lots of things.  I cannot choose one.
Q. You won in Brisbane.  You're now through to the round of 16 for the first time at the tournament.  How well prepared do you feel for the challenge of the second week at the Grand Slam?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, I cannot be more prepared than I am now.  I had an amazing run in Brisbane.  Good tennis for me.  I was very happy I could start the year with the win.
Yeah, just enjoying myself on court.  Every match is a big challenge for everyone in a Grand Slam.  And, you know, I'm just gonna go out there and do my best and be ready for my next match.
Q. We have seen seeds falling all around you.  You're now considered the favorite to win the tournament.  How does that sit with you?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, it's not the first time.  You know, I had the same in Roland Garros when it was the first time for me there.  Of course, it adds a little bit more pressure, but when you are out there playing on the court, I don't have this thing in my head.  I just have, you know, I have my opponent, I have my racquet, tennis ball, and, you know, I know what I have to do.
Q. You play another qualifier next, Allertova.  What do you know about her?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I played against her I think once.  I know her game.  She plays quite flat, so, you know, I know what to expect from her.  I'm going to prepare and, yeah, for me it's important for me to be ready and be 100% with my game and, you know, give myself a chance to play well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT