DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 22, 2018
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/N. Osaka   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  After that great start, you had to fight pretty hard to get the match back into your control, didn't you?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I had couple of tough matches against her.  I had to be ready for her to come back.  The match that we played in Tokyo I think, you know, I was up again.  It was, like, little bit frustrating for me to lose that match.  So I had to be ready for her to raise her level.   
 Q.  It was hot out there today.  Did that have any impact on you at all?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Well, definitely was harder than yesterday.  Yesterday was quite humid as well.  Today was just dry.  Was different.   
Definitely I was not expecting yesterday I would play the first match at 2:00, the hottest part of the day.  You know, as I said, there is not much I could do, so just accept and be ready.   
 Q.  What do you think you did well today?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Just stayed in the moment.  Was fighting, waiting for my opportunity, trying to earn opportunities.  Yeah, this pretty much it.   
She gave me this chance and I took it.  This was the key.   
 Q.  How pleased are you with how you handled this week, defending your title?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah, definitely I'm happy the way I've been handling the pressure and tough moments.  I had two good matches.  I cannot say was amazing tennis, but when I needed I was stepping up and playing well.   
Still I have semifinal ahead of me.  I don't want to say early.  But, yeah, the way I was playing, it was enough to go through.   
 Q.  Do you remember the first thing you treated yourself with or bought yourself with your first big paycheck from tennis?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: From tennis?  It was probably phone, yeah.  Because, yeah, I always was like fancy having mobile phone, the newest one (smiling).   
 Q.  What about last year, what did you treat yourself to with last year's prize money?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: I took a new physio with me (smiling).  Well, yeah, physio.  Bigger team for me.  Always investing, trying to invest in myself.  Also I had nutritionist added to my team.  These cost lots of money.  I prefer to do that.   
 Q.  You're working with Thierry and Andrew?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: The main coach is Thierry Ascione.  He cannot travel all the time.  He's the coach of Jo Tsonga.  I go to see him in Paris, where he's based.   
I have Andy always with me, Andrew.  He's a second coach and hitting partner.  Yeah, I have fitness coach back in London.  I'm looking for a physio now who can travel.  It's not so easy to find one who can actually travel every week with me.   
 Q.  You're saying you're sharing Thierry with Jo?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah.  When he's free some weeks, I take him.  He is the main coach of Jo, first of all.   
 Q.  Does it ever get to the point where you want him in a week and he's with Jo?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: No.  Jo always has the first say.  I'm not the main person there.  Just when he's free, I go to Paris.  If Jo is not taking him that week, I have the chance to work with him.   
 Q.  Why did you choose that?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: Because this was actually the idea when I stopped with Iain Hughes.  I wanted someone not full-time.  I just wanted to stay really focused on what I have to do on the court, stay little bit, like, away from someone talking always on the court.   
Last year, it really worked well.  We just stayed.  Yeah, we did look at some things differently.  That was the goal for me.   
 Q.  He was in Australia?  
ELINA SVITOLINA: He was not in Australia.  It was the decision.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT