BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 1, 2018
Elina Svitolina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








E. SVITOLINA/C. Suarez Navarro
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. She put up a little bit of resistance for you in that second set but you overcame it.  This was a particularly pleasing thing for you from the match?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah.  I mean, I was expecting that she would come back into the match strong.  You know, she has the game.  She been on top.  She knows how to come back into the matches and how to handle tough situations.  So I was just trying to really focus on what I had to do on the court and be ready for her to come back and be strong and try to go for her shots.
You know, I'm very pleased with how I handled this match and how I was playing throughout all the game.  And, yeah, there's lots of positive things.
Q. And how was your preseason and how are you feeling physically?
ELINA SVITOLINA: It was good.  There was some tough moments.  I was a bit struggling with a few injuries, but it was good.  You know, I learned a lot.  I had a good team around me who took care of me.
And, yeah, I think we're on the right path.  Of course, there will be tough matches at the beginning and throughout the season, but this is tennis and this is the part of it.
Q. You had a very good 2017.  What goals have you set yourself for this year?
ELINA SVITOLINA: The main goal is to stay healthy and to play all the time on the best level I can.  And always, you know, improve, try to challenge myself and play the best what I can.
Q. Is No. 1 a goal for you?  A realistic goal?
ELINA SVITOLINA: Of course this is the goal.  But, you know, I don't want to have this pressure in my mind just to have this thing.  Just try to, you know, to play my best and to improve each tournament, each match, and be strong mentally.
And, yeah, there's lots of things.  There's not only No. 1.  Of course, No. 1 is one of them.
Q. You mentioned having a few injuries during the preseason.  Do you feel like you got enough, you know, practice time on the court or fitness time?  I mean, how do you feel like going into the season?  Are you where you wanted to be as the season starts or do you feel like you're a little bit short and you're playing a little bit of catchup?
ELINA SVITOLINA: I had couple of matches during my season exhibitions in France, and I think I'm fine.  You know, today I was pretty solid and I think there's more positive than negative things.
And, yeah, I think I'm doing fine.
Q. And then the serve today.  That looked pretty good.  You have to be pretty happy.
ELINA SVITOLINA: I was working and working a lot on my serve and, yeah.  Everything that I worked on more, more was working than not working.  So this is big positive.  My coach will be happy when he'll be awake.
Q. The serve looked very strong on pressure points when you were down a break or at Deuce.  You seemed to be able to bring out that big serve.
ELINA SVITOLINA: Yeah.  I mean, this match was a good example that I can play good level of tennis, high level of tennis.  So I will try to continue to work and to, you know, to just be focused on these kind of things.
That's what important for me, you know, and then the Grand Slam and No. 1 is all going to come if I have my game, if I'm healthy, if I'm playing my best.  You know, that's the focus for now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT