WNBA FINALS: MYSTICS VS STORM
September 7, 2018
Breanna Stewart
Jewell Loyd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Storm - 89, Mystics - 76
Q. Jewell, you got an early lay-up off a steal.  Did that kind of help get you going do you think?
JEWELL LOYD: Of course.  Especially how I shot the ball last series.  You want to see the ball go early.  But I was really just focused on defense and trying to get that going first and then worry about my offense later.  That's just a tribute to our team defense because I think someone else got the steal and threw it up, so that's our team defense.
Q. Generally how did you guys feed off the steals you were able to generate tonight?
BREANNA STEWART: I think in general, we focused on our defense, and when you get your defense going, it motivates our offense.  When you get steals and lay-ups, the crowd goes nuts and you just keep going.  You don't feel tired anymore, you kind of just get energized by that.  That's something that we really focus on is trying to make it hard for them and get steals and try to get some easy transition lay-ups.
Q. Breanna, I asked Jewell this earlier.  What was it like being on top of the space needle and raising the flag this morning?
BREANNA STEWART: It was very early.  I had to wake up a little earlier than normal, but to be able to go on top of the space needle and raise the flag -- Jewell and I had been up on top of the space needle before, so it was kind of old news, no offense, but raising the flag and seeing our logo kind of throughout Seattle, that was awesome.  And even when I was leaving shootaround today, you look up, you see the needle and you see the Seattle Storm flag, and it just kind of puts the city on notice that we're fighting for a championship, and hopefully they'll come out and support.
Q. The semifinals series was really marked by big leads and comebacks, and you guys really kept the energy going for 40 minutes tonight.  How did you go about keeping that up?
JEWELL LOYD: We learned from our mistakes.  We learned that we can't do that.  We can't give teams life.  Definitely not in the Playoffs, right.  So we kind of had a situation tonight where we had possession after possession where we didn't get stops, and we weren't scoring, and we called a time-out, and like, we're not doing this again.  We kind of looked at each other like we learned from last series, and we're not going to start Game 1 doing this, so I think that's just us learning, growing as a team, and it definitely showed tonight.
Q. For both of you, it seems this year there is a buzz in this city surrounding this team that I know I haven't seen before even back in 2010 when they were winning the championship.  Have you noticed a big difference amongst people that aren't necessarily hard-core Storm fans?
BREANNA STEWART: I don't know, I think especially -- I don't know if it's just the city or especially the fact that the WNBA has been talked about a lot nationally just with the pay gap and all that stuff.  People are tuned in, and people are paying attention, and people on social media will be like, this is my first time watching the Storm and now I'm a fan, and then people will come to games, and now they come once and now they're addicted for the rest of the season.  I think for our team especially, the way and the style that we play, it's exciting.  It's fun.  People feed off of it, and we're having fun, as well.
JEWELL LOYD: Yeah, I would agree.  I mean, I got a car wash the other day, and the guy was like, I can't wait to go to the game, never been.  I'm like, awesome, thanks.  So now he's intrigued with what we're doing.  It's just great with this platform that we're bringing new people to watch our game, and it just makes the city unique.
Q. Jewell, you talked a little bit the struggles with your shot in the last series, and then you had the four straight perimeter shots that you knocked down in the second quarter.  When was the last time you kind of had a stretch you felt like that, and how good does it feel to have a stretch like that at this point?
JEWELL LOYD: Yeah, you know, when you're a shooter, you've got to have short-term memory.  I think I saw a post where Kobe was like, if you're not open, still shoot the ball, and I was like, I made that my screen saver, because I'm like, I need to be able to shoot and just have short-term memory.  But it helps when you're playing with people who are unselfish that set you up and keep giving you the ball, and that's what makes this team special.  Everyone is willing to make the extra pass, and regardless if you miss 100 shots or you make the next 70, this team is going to give you the ball.  Our team is just special, and I love playing with this team.
Q. You guys have seen this Washington offense at its best.  Does that make you a little wary of what to expect from them coming out on Sunday in Game 2?
BREANNA STEWART: Yeah, obviously they have a lot of weapons and we're very aware of that, and I think the way that the game turned out tonight, they'll come out Sunday with even more of a fire under them.  We need to just be ready for that.  This is a series.  That's the thing about the series.  It's not just one game, it's not just one bunch.  You have to be ready to take the other team's best shot.  They didn't play their best tonight, but I'm sure that they're going to try to play their best on Sunday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT