SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2010
Alex Prugh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tough day, but you had the front-9 kind of good. Got on the bogey train, couldn't get off.
 ALEX PRUGH: I didn't putt the ball very well. Couple untimely shots here and there lead to a bogey. From there I had opportunities for birdies and didn't make them. I think momentum-wise, if I could have switched those around and made a couple of those, it would have definitely changed the outcome I think of the round. But, you know, fortunately for me, there's one more round tomorrow and nothing a little 63 or 62 can't solve.

 Q. Kind of a learning round for you? I know you've been in this position a few times this year.
 ALEX PRUGH: Not really. Look back on it, and I just wasn't putting myself in the greatest position. Every birdie opportunity that I had was downhill. So never really like oh, just right ram this one in the back. You ram it in the back, you're going to have 4, 5 feet coming back, and I felt very comfortable out there. Just unfortunately, I didn't make a lot of birdies. I only had one day. Honestly, after that tee shot, I didn't think I was going to make birdie, but I ended up making a great wedge shot in there.

 Q. One last thing, when you have so much maybe in the back of your mind with the Masters next week and stuff, do you tend to get a little defensive, do you think or, I mean, does it seem like you're talking about having -- not getting yourself in position to hole those putts? 
 Does that sort of creep in because of that?
 ALEX PRUGH: Not really. Just I think my ball striking is just a touch off to where instead of missing it 10 feet left of the hole, I was 10 feet right of the hole, which isn't that bad. 
 When you're coming down here, it's like, gosh, you hit it so soft. At times I think this course, you do have to be defensive. A couple times I was behind the 8-ball. I might have tried to push it a little too much. 
 At the same time, you know, fortunately, like I said, there is another round tomorrow.

 Q. Absolutely. You got it in you. 
 ALEX PRUGH: Yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT