FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 8, 2015
Alex Prugh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Right in the thick of things down the stretch.  1-under round today.  How did you feel out there?  ALEX PRUGH: I felt good.  I obviously would have loved that putt to have gone in on the last.  It was dead center in the jar.  But I hit a lot of good shots coming down the stretch, which was great, made a lot of good up-and-downs on a couple holes in a row, so I didn't make a ton of mistakes.  Still played under par golf on the course, so it's nothing to complain about.  I would just love one or two less.   Q.  Down the stretch I think you parred out, what, five in a row there.  Was it just -- how hard was it to drop a birdie out there for you?  ALEX PRUGH: A little bit.  It's a touch stretch of holes.  You hit 12 -- I made a great par on 12. Unfortunately, I bogeyed 10, but 11, 12, those are tough pars.  I parred those scrambling. And then made a great birdie on 13. Then obviously, 14, 15, 16, those are three holes in a row that are very difficult and I missed two of the fairways, so I scrambled pretty well just to make pars on them. And unfortunately, I thought I made my putt on 16, actually.  It looked pretty sweet for a long time, until it lipped out. But then on 17 I couldn't ask for more, 125 center of the fairway with a wedge and just didn't make birdie. 18, you know, I hit my third shot and saw it spinning back, crowd starts roaring and I was praying for it to disappear as it passed the hole.  Unfortunately, it didn't. Then just couldn't get that last putt to go.  All in all it's still a good week, I just would love to have had one less to maybe have a chance.   Q.  Given your WEB.COM TOUR status, how do you think your finish here today kind of will help you out over there?  ALEX PRUGH: It's going to help out a lot.  With our shuffle, we're having another shuffle in a couple weeks and stuff like that for this category and, fortunately, it will help me probably be able to predict a couple more tournaments to get in.  So scheduling will be easier.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT