TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 25, 2013
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Coach, your last game against Texas, you come out with a 42‑38 victory.   Can you talk about that day?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, the main thing I remember is it was Senior Day, so last time we're going to play in that stadium.   I just remember the seniors wanted to go out with a victory.   So to spend that day getting that done with that group of guys was special.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of quarterbacks, have you made a decision in terms of who will start Thursday and is that something you'll announce?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   I have not.   We'll figure that out and let them try it out Thursday.  
   
 Q.   Have you talked to guys about what it feels like to beat Texas and play Texas?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   No, just obviously, more than anything to play on Thanksgiving night the big game on is a big deal.   They need to embrace that and enjoy that moment.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about that a little bit getting to watch Texas every year, what's it mean to be on that Thanksgiving stage?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   It's a great opportunity for our university and our kids to show what they can do to go out there in the last game and hopefully play our best game of the year.  
   
 Q.   How was the bye week?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   It was good.   Got a lot of reps for the quarterbacks.   Guys that have made position changes and things of that nature, got them a bunch of reps, which we desperately needed.  
   
 Q.   Are you choosing between three quarterbacks or between two?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, they're all three healthy.   So it will be between one of those three and see how it goes.  
   
 Q.   Coach, does the weather affect your preparations this off week?   Do you have to make any adjustments over the next couple days because of the snow on the ground or the ice or do you just go out there?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   No, we had a tractor out there moving it off which took a little while yesterday, but we got it done.   It's been fine.   It is what it is.   We practice outside for a long time up here.  
   
 Q.   Have you kind of chimed in on the defensive side of the ball?   During the bye week, did you guys address some of that to try to get stops?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, we've been trying to get stops.   We've just got to find a way to do it.   We've got to put our players in position.   That's when those guys have to make plays.   The missed tackles was concerning and we got back to the basics of that.   We'll see how it goes Thursday.  
   
 Q.   Have you noticed changes in their defense?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, schematically it's a lot different.   It appears he's had kind of a calming effect.   He's been around a lot of football.   They're playing really good defense since he's taken over and won a bunch of games.   So very talented group.  
   
 Q.   What's the difference schematically?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   I would say Manny was a lot more exotic and Coach Robinson brings different looks but not as much as Manny did.  
   
 Q.   The farther that Michael goes away and past the injury (No microphone) since he's gotten more reps and farther away from the injury, are you seeing improvement in him now?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, he's done a good job.   The reps he does get, he's taking advantage of them.   I think mentally is the toughest part, coming back and preparing to be the starter when you haven't been for that long.   He's a competitive kid, and I know he wants to be out there.  
   
 Q.   What is your thought on talking back to the conditions of the snow and everything and building the indoor practice facility and where that ranks on your list?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   You know, like I said, we practiced out here a long time without one.   So that's more of a curvy‑type question, so we'll make do with what we have.   We've won a lot of games out here and we play outside so...  
   
 Q.   Do you anticipate that they're going to hand the ball off against you because of what they've seen in the last four games?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   I would think so.   They were great stable backs, and really good O‑line, so I would expect that to be coming often and early.  
   
 Q.   What is the status of Beau Carpenter, Kramer, guys like that?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I expect Kramer to be back.   Beau is still waiting to see on him.   But I expect Kramer to be back and kicking.   That will be good.   He's done a good job for us all year on his kickoff, so we're happy to have him back.  
   
 Q.   Any trickeration plays?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   No, should be just a base game plan and see how it goes.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   I do.   I think it's a neat deal for our players and our staff to go down there.   Any time you get to showcase your university on a national stage on a big night, that's a great deal for us.  
   
 Q.   What do you remember about your playing days at DKR?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   They weren't great.   Coach Brown has done a tremendous job down there.   We've had some tough days, but it's a cool atmosphere, great stadium, great fan support down there.   So I think it will be fun for our players.  
   
 Q.   Did you have any influence on the Lone Star Pride jersey this year?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Not a lot.   Just okayed some things and nicked some things.   But I really like the look.   I think it's a good statement for our team.  
   
 Q.   Do you think the game is more important for the exposure it gets for the school and helps recruiting?   I mean, as much as it is for you going down there?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   I do.   I think as many eyes as you're going to have on you in the state especially after watching that game Thanksgiving, I think it's big for our university.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on the rivalry trophies?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, this will be the first one, I guess, that I've really known about.   I think it's fun for the fan bases.  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about the opportunity that awaits you guys Thursday?   If you guys can win, it can really change how everybody views the season?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, there are a lot of games that could have changed the way people viewed this season.   When you lose four in a row, that's how it goes.   But to us, it's an opportunity to play our best game, and we've been waiting to do that.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone) against Baylor.   
COACH KINGSBURY:   He should play.   Trey has had a good week of practice, and they've had his hand padded up, and he should play.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   I'm not sure exactly what he did.   I just have seen him out there with a pad on it.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   I'm not sure.   That all happens on that Sunday after, so it will just be good to end the season with a winning conference record, which hasn't happened around here in a few years.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk about Coach Brown a little bit and maybe what he's meant for the Big 12 and how he's represented the university and how he's gone down there and maybe how tough it is?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, he's an incredible coach.   It is a tough deal for him in that I don't think people remember where they were at before he got there and what he's done for that program.   So it's kind of be careful what you wish for to an extent, because the impact he's had on Texas football and the University of Texas and their success, it's really incredible.   You ask any high school coach, the way he treats each and every one with respect, I couldn't say enough good things about him.   Having my dad as a high school coach, the interactions he had with my dad and the way he treated us were incredible.  
   
 Q.   Did Washington practice last week?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   He did not, but he should be ready to go today.   SO I'd expect him up and ready to play.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   He is not.   He is not on the team.   So moving forward it's something we'll have to evaluate with him.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Team rules.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT