TEXAS FARM BUREAU INSURANCE SHOOTOUT: TEXAS TECH vs BAYLOR
November 16, 2013
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Walk us through your quarterback decision tonight? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, Baker had a good week of practice, and I felt like he fought hard in the previous game.   Just got to protect the football better, but he's a fighter and kept us in it early and just got to learn from his mistakes.

Q.   Can you talk about just how it was good to see your team come out and start fast tonight versus the past couple weeks?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I mean, I thought they had good energy early but just faded as we got going.   Too many mistakes in all phases.   We're just not good on any side of the ball right now, and that's all me.   We've got a bye week, and a big one down in Austin, and we have to get a lot better before we head down there.

Q.   After the missed extra point, Baylor scored 14 points right off the bat.   What did you tell your team after they scored 14 points just like that? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, just keep fighting.   We knew that they were going to score.   They've scored on everybody.   It's a great offense; it really is.   Their offensive line does a tremendous job.   The quarterback is really good and receivers everywhere.   We knew they'd score; we just had to limit it and limit our mistakes, and we didn't do that.   We turned it over too many times.

Q.   Are you surprised at all?   It seems like your pass rush fairly about the last month or so now just has not been able to get a whole lot of pressure or disrupt a lot. 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, haven't gotten back there much.   Pass defense or rush defense hasn't done much.   Teams are just getting after us on that side of the ball.   We've just got to find ways to get better.   Whatever personnel changes we have to make or schematically, whatever we have to do, we have to get better.   Just keep at it.

Q.   Is this bye week coming at a good time for you in terms of injuries and resting up a little bit? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I think more than anything just getting reps for some of the young guys that are playing now, especially our quarterbacks and trying to figure out that situation and who is going to start that last game.   That would be the only thing.   I think health‑wise we're about where everybody's at at this point in the season.

Q.   What went into your decision to start Baker and how did you feel about the way he played tonight?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I just thought he ended the previous game well.   He moved around, made some plays and had a great week of practice.   I thought he played hard tonight, just turned it over a couple of times that we can't have against a team like that.

Q.   Moving forward, how do you guys just kind of shake past this loss and get ready?   What do you do to get ready for Austin? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, just try to get better at all three sides.   That's all you can do at this point.   We've got some young guys playing that have to step up and make plays when they're called upon.   But I thought the effort was good early and just stated.   So we've got to play a complete game.   We haven't done that all year.

Q.   You played Brewer at the end of the game.   Can you talk about your plans for him in the future? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, we're trying to figure it out.   I don't know what we're going to do going into this last week.   It's good we have a bye week.   We'll get them all three reps and see who our starter will be for the last game.

Q.   Baker fumbled a couple times when he probably could have slid.   What have you told him about that? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, just got to protect it if he wants to play.   Plays like that, he cant give the ball up.   It's part of moving around and you've got to finish them.   If he wants to be our quarterback, he can't do that.

Q.   When Jace went down, what was the talk on the sideline?   Was he cleared to get back immediately?   Was he looked over?   What happened there? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   He was.   They did all the protocol for concussion testing, and he was clear.   So they put him back in.

Q.   With Baylor's top two running backs, were you expecting this rushing performance from Baylor? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I knew that the third one, Linwood was as good as the other two from watching the previous games.   So he's a special player and did a great job.   Like I said, the offensive line is really good, and that, to me, is what jumps out.   From some of their previous teams, they've always had great skills, but those guys are moving bodies up front.

Q.   Do you have any update on the status of Jordan Davis or Tre' Porter? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I don't.   I'll have to talk to the trainers after.   I just saw they left the game.   I'm not sure.

Q.   What is the challenge like with so many young players in the secondary, there were times when you had three freshmen out there versus that group? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, they've got to grow up fast.   That's a talented group, talented quarterback.   So they missed some things.   I thought they battled hard.   They'll grow up and be better players for it, hopefully.

Q.   In the first half it looked like the safeties, Baylor's safeties were playing close to the box.   Did that play factor in at all with you guys going down the field early? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, they played a lot of man‑to‑man coverage, and we thought our receivers could try to make plays.   Their DBs did a good all night and very physical.   Their defense is much improved from a year ago.   I thought they did a good job battling and our guys made some plays early.

Q.   Can you talk about the missed tackles tonight and how big of a factor that is in this game? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, it's huge.   I thought we had people in places to make plays and it's been that way the last few weeks.   You've got to make them.   Because with that type of skill they have, if you don't, they can go to the house any time and they saw that.   So got to get better with the fundamentals and the young guys that are playing, they've got to grow up.

Q.   Is missing tackles, is that a casualty of being a mostly spread offense team and not having very physical practices, which, obviously, a lot of teams nationally do.   But is that a reason for it?
COACH KINGSBURY:   I'm not sure.   It's just case‑by‑case, team‑by‑team who you're playing with and things of that nature.   Because I see a bunch of spread teams that tackle really well.   I didn't think it had anything to do with our practicing, but I just think when guys are there, you've got to make plays.

Q.   Coach, you talked about it earlier, there are so many freshmen playing.   Have you seen growth with them?   We might not see results on the scoreboard, but have you seen growth with them this week? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I'll have to watch the film and see.   I think they have good attitudes.   Guys are getting beaten and getting right back out there and being positive at it.   They have to get better a lot faster than they are right now.

Q.   What did you think of Eric Ward's touchdown catch and the kind of game he played tonight? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, he's been a great example for those young receivers the way he's practiced these last few weeks of his career.   Coming out and making plays over and over and over for us, and those young quarterbacks have faith that he'll go up and make a play.   So just been good for our younger players to see the type of effort that he's put into it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT