TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 11, 2013
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   What is the energy like in your locker room right now with most of the players? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   It's good.   Disappointed with the way we played, I think, but luckily we have two more opportunities, and I think it's against two teams we know very well and both fan bases get excited for these games, so I think that's helped move past the last couple weeks and on to what we have ahead of us.

Q.   What is your plan to try and rectify the difficulties in stopping the rush?   Can you talk about that? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, we're looking at all angles.   Personnel is one thing we've hit on, and schematically just have to get better.   There is no easy answer.   We've tried to rectify the last three weeks and haven't had an answer.   So we'll try to figure it out this week.

Q.   Some of the technique, have they sort of lost or moved away from the fundamentals that they were doing so well? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, it may be.   In some instances there were some new guys in there playing.   But you've got to give the teams we played credit.   They're good teams with good schemes and good players.   Especially last week I thought they just moved us around.

Q.   After watching the film, are there going to be any changes made to the starting lineup? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, yeah.   But we'll figure it out this week and go from there.

Q.   Have you settled on who is going to start at quarterback? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   No.   That's an interesting position to be in week 11 and still have that going on.   We'll get them both reps and see how it goes this week and then trot one of them out there.

Q.   Michael Brewer? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   We'll see.   We're going to try to get him some more.   He hasn't got a ton, so at times, I didn't know if it would be fair to throw him in there and just let him go.   So we'll see how he looks this week and take it from there.

Q.   What percentage of the snaps here in practice do you give to the guy that is going to start that week? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   It varies.   It varies.   We try to get a bunch to both quarterbacks.   But it just varies week to week depending on game plan.

Q.   What are Baylor's weaknesses? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   That's a good question.   Still trying to find them.   You turn on the tape and every time it flashes the scoreboard it's always 63‑7 or 70‑14.   So it's really hard to find film that you see as useable game film because a lot of the times their back‑ups are in and the game is out of hands.   They're solid in every phase and playing with a ton of confidence right now.

Q.   On the subject of the Lone Survivor Foundation, what was your idea of picking that foundation to support? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, they picked us, which was neat.   Marcus Luttrell had some friends or family that went to Texas Tech so was very familiar with the university and picked us to do that Under Armour game, and our players got to hear him speak and watch the movie.   So it was a great deal for our players to be part of that.

Q.   With just this one event, what can we expect in the future for great events like this happening at Texas Tech? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, hopefully there are more.   Usually they tell me I'm doing it, and I roll with it.   I don't have a ton of say.   That's from the higher ups.   But that was very unique for our players to be around Marcus and hear his story.

Q.   Have you sat down with Matt and gone through film and talked about how you'd like to see things change?   How has he responded? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, he's been great.   We got what we've got, so I think all those coaches are doing a tremendous job working and trying to put people in position to be successful and that's all can you do is put them there.   If they can't make the play, we've got to find somebody who can so that's kind of the point where we're at.

Q.   That's probably the frustrating part is knowing what your problem is and trying to figure out how to fix it?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, yeah, that's part of football.   This time of year, everybody has issues.   We're just trying to sort through them.

Q.   What is (No microphone) situation? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   We'll see.   Hopefully, he responds.   He responded really well to treatment last week, and hopefully he does even better this week and can get out there for a few snaps.   But as of right now, we're not sure how he's going to feel once we get out to the practice field.

Q.   Did he do anything on the field last week? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   He did not.   He did not.   He did some running and rehab, so we'll see if he can do it this week.

Q.   Are you going to talk with the quarterbacks about let's stem this tide of turnovers because it's played you all season long? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   It has.   Once you play the better teams and you lose the turnover battle, it's going to be a tough time winning the games.   They're young.   That's part of the process and our system.   You have to grow with it.   But at this point in the season you'd think some of those could be eliminated. 
If we can protect the ball t will give us a much better chance of winning these games.

Q.   Looking on film, was Baker doing something that you noticed on film that kind of got the team going in particular? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   No, I think he just came in and tried to execute the offense and moved it around and made some plays.   He was under duress.   They had a good front and he did a good job keeping some things alive, took some sacks he can't take.   But I didn't notice any certain spark or anything like that.

Q.   Is there something in practice that you do to fix these‑‑ try to fix these mistakes? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, we coach hard.   Yeah, that's about it.   I don't know any other way to do it.

Q.   (No microphone)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   I wish I had it.   If I had that, we wouldn't be here now answering these questions.

Q.   We've heard the word undisciplined thrown around.   How do you handle that word?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, people can say what they want.   When you start losing, that word gets thrown around, but we're doing the best we can.   I think our kids are playing really hard.   A lot of those penalties are effort penalties, so you're going to live with some of those.

Q.   On a personal level, it had to feel great starting 7‑0.   How are you feeling about these three games?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I'm good.   It's part of football.   We knew the type of team we had going in and the area that's we had to improve upon, and we still know those.   We just have to keep working and have two really big games left.   I'm excited to see how our team reacts.

Q.   So you're not looking at it as a book end as the end of the season.   You're looking beyond this season to the future? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I think coming into it, it's always a process.   We just wanted to get better with each week.   We feel like we've done that to an extent.   We've got to eliminate those mistakes, those turnovers, and we'll be right there.

Q.   This could mark the last game with the Baylor series in Dallas.   Would you rather be home at home or do you have an opinion on that one way or the other? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I think it's a neat experience for our players to go to Cowboy Stadium and play there.   I haven't been a part of it, but from their accounts they really enjoy it.   I'd like to see it stay there.

Q.   Coach Briles was a running backs coach here when you were playing quarterback.   What is your relationship with him? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Really good.   He's a guy I've always looked up to, and admired.   The way he handles his programs, coaches his players and has been successful at every level.   So he's as good as it gets in this profession.

Q.   With the talent at receiver, do you think you have some unique match‑ups to challenge Baylor?
COACH KINGSBURY:   I hope so.   They're playing really good as a unit.   They feel like they have two corners now that can walk down and man people up which allows those safeties to roam around.   On tape people haven't been able to do much in the passing game.   So that's kind of our specialty.   Hopefully we'll be able to attack in some areas.

Q.   What was the issue with Davis on Saturday after the four series and after watching it on film, what were the minor things that you pointed snout?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just a couple mistakes that were uncharacteristic of the way he plays the game and some of the things he did.   I thought he moved the ball well at times.   They were just freshmen mistakes.   But doing things in the game he didn't do in practice.   So I wanted to sit back, take a look at it from the sideline and get that view for a little bit and see if that corrects it.

Q.   (No microphone)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just misreads, things of that nature, yeah. 

Q.   As a coach, what is your thought process like when you decide to put in another quarterback, particularly when you're working with a couple freshmen? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, it's tough because I think they're both playing at an astounding level for being true freshmen, as much as we put on them.   So you don't want to discourage them, and they know that.   We tell them we're going to do what's best for the team.   But I couldn't be more impressed by the way they've played this year.   We've got a bunch on them, and they've been in adverse situations and conditions and hung in there and made a bunch of big plays.   So really encouraged by both of their progress this year.

Q.   You don't have reps for Michael Brewer for game time?   What is leading to the lack of reps and keeps him out of that in practice? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, just point where we're at in the season.   We feel like watching Baker and Davis progress and where they're at.   It's just not fair at this point to put Mike in until he gets caught up and gets to that level.   He's a very talented kid and just has to get more reps whenever we can find time.

Q.   Have you contemplated paperwork for a medical red‑shirt for Michael Brewer? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I'm not sure what that entails at this point.   That would be something after the year I'm sure we can look into, but I'm not sure how that works.   I know we already red‑shirted once, so I'm not sure how it works in his situation.

Q.   What stands out about Seastrunk's running game that makes him better than most of the nation? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, just explosive.   They do a good job of springing him outside.   He likes to bounce a bunch of stuff outside, and when he gets on the perimeter, he's gone.   Not many people in the country can run with him, so that is the biggest thing.   Anytime he touches it, it's a home run threat.

Q.   You guys have fended off people doubting you.   When you saw that point spread this morning, is that something you remind the kids about all week? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I didn't see it.

Q.   It was 28. 
COACH KINGSBURY:   28, yeah, that's probably about right with what they're doing.   They've beaten everybody by 70 so far.   So that's probably about right.   Yeah, we'll see.   Like I said earlier, both fan bases get up with this game.   They're very familiar with each other, and I expect our kids to play hard.

Q.   Is there anything different that you do in the routine this week to change things up, make things fun, make things tougher? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   No. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT