TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 4, 2013
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   When what did you see after you watched film that you felt good about and you didn't feel so good about? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, once again, after it was there, way too many mental mistakes, but that's a good team.   After watching film, they are a good team, and we needed to play a good game to win it.   We didn't play our best game, but you've got to give them credit.

Q.   What about specifically with Davis? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   He probably had three throws you can't make in that game.   And he knows that.   When you throw it 70 times with a true freshman, you're going to get some of those.   I thought once again, he had some adverse situations and stuff in his face and hung in there and he made a lot of plays.   He'll learn from it.

Q.   Have you noticed any common threads in these last couple games?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, just got to start faster against good teams like that.   Especially in this conference they'll get out and run away from you.   I was proud of our effort battling back in that first half.   But you can't get yourself in that type of hole against a team like that.

Q.   When you came out flat in the second half is that because they spent so much to catch up in the first half? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I'm not sure.   We were rolling in there good, and came back out after halftime and we were flat again.   Defense got a big stop, and offensively we were out there and went three‑and‑out and had an opportunity to take the lead.   Just couldn't keep a steady flow the entire game.

Q.   After seeing the game film, do you plan on making any changes to the rush defense? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   We'll see.   It's a completely different offense we're facing this week with a great running attack, a quarterback that can run, and really good running backs.   So we'll have to shore up the run defense somehow.

Q.   What do you see as your main issue to the run defense? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   You know, I feel like there are some missed tackles.   And I was telling the defensive staff they had some calls on that weren't made, missed assignments, people trying to do too much.   So we've got to get back to fundamentals and doing your job.   Not trying to hit a home run every play.

Q.   Do you feel like (No microphone) was doing that a little bit too?   It was almost like maybe if I throw a perfect pass we can get two touchdowns?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I think he was pressing a bit when we got down.   But that comes with the territory, and he'll learn from that.   It was a good defense.   Made a lot of big‑time throws throughout the night, and just had a come he wished he had back.

Q.   The past couple of weeks you've been using gimmicks to motivate the team.   Do you think those may have backfired? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I don't, no.   I don't.

Q.   Coach, you don't typically see a defensive line get punt blocks.   But was it good to see Kerry Hyder do something like that? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, it's great to see Kerry.   That just shows what type of effort.   He never takes a play off.   Whether it's special teams or during the game.   That's a great lesson for our younger guys to see that a guy like that plays every snap with that type of effort and energy.

Q.   What is the state of mind of the locker room?   Are they sort of down?   Have you talked to them about how these teams are showing you what you've got to work on? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I don't think we're down.   I think you learn from each loss.   I've said all along, we haven't played our best game, and I think that's what keep this is group excited.   When we do put it together, we can be pretty good. 
Senior Day coming up helps, because we want to send those guys out on the right foot, and it will be a motivated group come Saturday.

Q.   Davis going to start on Saturday? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   He will.

Q.   Sam's most effective passing plays, he seems to have a really good fake, and then act like he's going to run.   How do you plan to stop that? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   It's tough.   You have to play assignment football.   They do a good job with their play action, and they have great receivers outside that can really run.   So we'll have to be great with our eye control and be really disciplined.

Q.   Jakeem said after the game on Saturday that it was kind of a loss of focus.   Did you see that when you looked at the film, or was it something said after the game in frustration? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I think so.   There were some unusual mental errors that we made.   I don't know if we were too hyped up or trying too hard in certain positions, but everybody's got to do their job and not try to do too much.

Q.   Can you talk about the uniforms and the cause and everything kind of surrounding this game? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, the Lone Survivor, we were very honored to be part of that, the story behind it, and they selected us to do it, which is a huge honor.   Our players know all about it going into the game.   Yeah, that should be plenty of motivation going out there and wearing that and playing really hard for that cause.

Q.   Can you talk about your dad a little bit?   He'll be among those that will be honored before the game as a Purple Heart recipient?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, that's a huge honor.   Something I've always been very proud of.   He's a marine, Purple Heart recipient and Vietnam vet.   That's something I've always been proud of.   So it will be great to have him here and be part of that.

Q.   How much did he tell stories about that?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Not much.   He's pretty tight‑lipped when it comes to that stuff.   But hearing it secondhand, he's seen some pretty intense stuff.

Q.   You addressed it of course several times this year (No microphone) about you guys and your staff.   But can you address that to the standpoint of the seniors and what they've meant to a new coach and getting the program off? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, it's been incredible how those guys have helped out and a lot of them, we're the third staff they have had.   You see guys like Kerry Hyder and Eric Ward and the effort that they're playing with.   They didn't have to buy in.   They didn't sign up to play for us.   When younger guys see the effort they're giving to this staff and this university, it's really helped ease our transition.

Q.   I was going to say, so the seniors are all on the walking wounded list right now as far as Dartwan, and Tre' and Terrance, what's it look like for them? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   They'll all three be game‑time decisions.   They all have nagging stuff that we'll work through today.   It won't be until game time where we see if they can go full go.

Q.   Can you tell us what exactly happened with Tre'? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, reaggravated an ankle injury.

Q.   What sort of offensive attack, without getting specific, of course, do you plan to implement Saturday?   I know you've said all season we're going to go with what they give us.   Did you do that Saturday night?   Is that the plan still going forward? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, Saturday was a little different because we got off to a slow start and we were chasing down 21‑0, so we got off the game plan a little bit.   But hopefully we can stay within it.   Once again, if we're running the ball well, we'll do that a ton.   If we can't, we'll start throwing it.

Q.   Early on the clip of the offense seemed to be a lot quicker than it is now.   Is that something that you've sort of backed off on? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, we really adapted to our personnel and what we're good at.   So we probably aren't pushing the tempo as fast as we did early, and a lot of that has to do with our competition and the type of athletes they have.

Q.   Can you talk about game planning against them as a player as opposed to a coach? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, he's one of the greatest stories in college football history when you look at what he's done there two times and just so well‑respected in our profession.   As a player, you always knew his teams were going to be highly motivated and very disciplined, same dealing with him as a coach.   You have to come prepared and make sure you have your best game plan ready.

Q.   Can you talk about candidate for the John Madden Award?   Can he be a candidate for the Biletnikoff Award? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   With his stats, I don't know where he fits in, but he has some good stats.   If you watch him firsthand, it's pretty impressive what he's doing with a young quarterback still figuring it out.   I don't pay much attention to those awards, but I'd figure he'd be up for something.

Q.   With Coach Snyder and the Wildcats coming in and liking to run the ball, do you issue the challenge on defense that you've seen this on tape now and you have to go out and prove that you can stop it?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, they know.   If you're watching that, they're going to hand it off every time until they stop it.   So they're going to know what's coming.   We talked about other, K‑State does a great job with their play‑action game, so you still have to be disciplined.   I expect them to come in and try to enforce their will and run it all day.

Q.   How much of the struggles the last couple of weeks have been related to some of those guys that you're missing? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   You know, that's tough when you lose seniors that have played a bunch.   But our young guys have to step up.   When they're put in position to make plays, they have to make plays.   So there are no excuses.   It's just next guy up.   In November in college football, that's part of the game.   You're going to have attrition.   You just have to find ways to deal with it.

Q.   What is the toughest part about playing against Bill Snyder? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just so you know all three phases are going to be well‑coached and they're not going to give you anything.   It's going to be one of those games where you have to make the play and take it, because there won't be any cheap ones.

Q.   Is there conversation with you and players and coaches about how, yes, it's a far tougher battle to possibly win the Big 12 title, but you're still in it?   How are you framing that? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, like I said, it helps this week having the Senior Day and last home game.   We've talked about playing better at home over the past few years they've had here.   So that is a big goal.   Just small goals each and every week.   We're trying to get better and trying to win that week.

Q.   Going into this last home game, talk about how you feel towards this‑‑ up to this point in the season? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, had some ups and downs and still trying to find our best game.   Got a lot of young guys contributing, and getting better as it goes.   But we've got to get better fast and hopefully put all three phases together one of these weeks.

Q.   Did it surprise you based on what practice was like last week and what happened on Saturday? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I thought we'd come out with better energy, I don't know if we were too fired up or whatnot early.   But we had plays to be made early, and got off to a good start, just didn't make them.

Q.   Is there something that you look for in practice that tells you you're in trouble on Saturday? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   No, we've had awful weeks of practice and played our best in the game.   Each week is different.   That's what happens when you're dealing with 18‑ to 22‑year‑old kids.

Q.   You had said after the game that the supporting staff didn't do what they could have done.   Were you talking about dropped balls?   What were you talking about? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just more the guys that have played a bunch of football around here have to step up and be our best players when they're supposed to be.   I didn't feel like at certain times we did that.   When you have young guys, you have to step your game up and help them out.

Q.   Could you flash back and take us through your Senior Day and what you remember about it? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, all the pageantry that goes along with it.   It's the last time.   You spent a lot of years, lot of tough practices with those guys.   It's just a great energy about that stadium to be with those guys for one last time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT