TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 28, 2013
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   OU running game sort of kept you guys off the field longer than you'd probably liked.   How do you rectify that? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, we talked about it with our guys.   We've got to get them off the field, bunch of third and longs, And their quarterback, to his credit, stepped up and made big throws.   They were able to extend drives and that's what really hurt us. 
But we'll just work at it.   We took a look at the film.   We've got to get guys in there that can sustain and hold up in the run game.

Q.   Did they get fatigued?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Possibly on some of those longer drives when they had some 13, 12 play drives.   I know the one was from the three all the way down.   I think that wore on them as the game went on.   We've just got to find ways to get them off the field.

Q.   How was it having Dartwan back in the lineup? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   He helped.   He's a talented player, senior leadership, so we'll see.   Hopefully, that's sooner than later.   Not sure about this week, but maybe for the last three.

Q.   (No microphone)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Dartwan?   Just rehab.   Just rehab.

Q.   (No microphone)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, they do a great job running it.   Each game is different.   I thought OU had a good plan, a bunch of unbalanced stuff and kept leaning on them.   I thought we had them off schedule a bunch of times where that kid stepped up on 3rd and 8, 3rd and 9, 3rd and 10, and made big‑time throws.   You have to give them credit.   We have to find a way to get off the field in those situations.

Q.   What do you expect to see from Oklahoma State's offense this week? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I mean, they're good.   That offense that Dana took over there was one that we were together in Houston for two years before he left.   So we're pretty familiar with that, and they're familiar with what we do.   They're used to scoring points. 
They do a great job coaching their receivers, quarterbacks, their O‑line, so it will be a huge challenge.

Q.   You haven't had much experience coaching kids back from losses.   This is the first time at it this year.   (No microphone)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, as a coordinator, you've been there so... 
We've lost before.   Not very often, which is a good thing.   But it's a highly motivated group.   You're coming back home to play against a team that's really embarrassed you the last two years, to put it bluntly.   I don't think there should be any problem with getting them motivated to play this game, and everything's out in front of them.   If you want to win the Big 12, you're going to have to win the rest of the games anyways, and I think they see that.

Q.   More trickeration coming up on Saturday?   You had four or five plays. 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I think we used it all up for the year.   I think that's it.   No, our kids did a good job executing those.   There were things we saw on film, and the timing‑‑ we carried them throughout the year, but it just worked out timing‑wise.   But that's game‑by‑game‑type situation.

Q.   An onside kick, was that something that came to mind spur of the moment?   Or was that something you thought about doing before you went into the game? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   We, you know Summitt Hogue told me that morning at breakfast I better call it because he had been doing it all week and he had a good feeling about it.   So we went ahead and called it.   But that was something we carry, and if we saw the right situation, we were going to call it.

Q.   I noticed you talking to the bench, Davis Webb, Bradley, did you tell them that was coming up, get ready, put your helmet back on? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I said we're about to get back.   Y'all get ready; Don't get too comfortable over here.   Luckily they executed and made the play.

Q.   You guys probably executing those plays in practice (No microphone) for you to call them? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   We were.   It was stuff we'd seen on film that we thought we'd have a chance to do it.   Against really good teams, sometimes you have to change it up a little bit.   I thought our kids believed in it, and made it happen on a lot of those.

Q.   Did you have thoughts of coach's mindset from a few years ago? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I remember that.   It wasn't that drastic, but, like I said, it was just an opportunity we saw and we're not going to be afraid to pull the trigger if we think it's there.

Q.   Along the same lines, quickly talking about the play on PlayStation that worked.   They bring it in and try it out.   Are you guys looking for plays like that if you see something, you try it out in practice and see if it works? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, no question.   If they have ideas, we'll check it out.   Lot of times during their summer workouts they'll come up with routes or signals or plays.   Usually if they believe in it, they'll make it work, even if you think it's the dumbest play of all time.   That is kind of our philosophy, so we're not afraid to try new things.

Q.   Have you pinpointed what it was in the first quarter into the second quarter that got into their territory?   Have you pinpointed what the issue was?   Was it the crowd, Davis' inexperience in that situation? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I think we were all a little juiced up there, probably trying a bit too hard.   There were a couple of tough penalties.   The pass interference comes to mind.   Pushed his way back.   But, yeah, to be on that side of the 50 and not get points out of all of those trips, you're not going to beat a team like that without taking advantage of those.

Q.   What do you do? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just get better.   That's it.   I don't have any special answers for that.   Just have to get better this week.

Q.   Could you speak to offensive holding theoretically and how that call has changed, because it's becoming rarer and rarer that it's called? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   It is.   They let them play.   They say it all the time, if you wanted to call it, you probably could on every play.   I don't know if it's going away as much.   But they do seem to let the kids play more, which I think is good for the game.   Nobody wants to stop 30 times a game on a holding call.

Q.   (No microphone)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   24 hours and I'm good.   It's tough there for a little bit.   But there is so much to play for.   Like I said, it's all out in front of us if we approach it the right way.

Q.   Oklahoma played "Jump Around" in 2008.   They played it again at the end of the game.   What was your response to that? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, it's cool.   They were jumping around.   It's a cool atmosphere.   They were excited and fired up about the win, which they should be.   It was a good football game, great atmosphere, so my hat's off to them.

Q.   Along the lines of penalties, that is one area you guys have really improved on.   What's the biggest difference from the start of the season now? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just emphasis.   We've started off rocky, and the last few games we've limited it, and we're going to have to if we want to get where we want to be.   It's a big step in the right direction coming from last year.   I know we're still in the bottom half, but if we can improve from last.   That's a step forward.

Q.   Last time you guys had Oklahoma State 6:00 o'clock, how important is it to recreate that atmosphere and how important do you think this student section will be in that game? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   It will be a huge deal.   It's going to hopefully be rocking.   It's going to be our last night game for the year, and I know our students love those night games.   So I'm hoping that they'll bring the energy, bring the passion like they have in all the other ones and get ready to have a fun night.

Q.   Can you tell me what you think about your players and just players generally being begged into interactions with upset fans on Twitter, and what you think some fans tweeting vitreal to the players?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, it's just the society we're in.   You can't keep it from happening.   I don't think our players should really get involved with it.   But they're young, and they're very volatile at times, so I can see why they go back and forth.   But it's just part of society right now.

Q.   Do you discourage them from doing that? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I don't encourage it.   I don't have much say over their personal lives at that point.

Q.   When you were playing, Texas Tech seemed to dominate Oklahoma State.   Now Mike Gundy has come in and really turned the tables.   Can you talk about that a little bit? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I don't know.   Like I said, they've had our number here for a few years, but each year is different.

Q.   How was that Oklahoma State team a year ago? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I mean, they always had good teams.   We played against Les Miles and he had good squads.   Coach Gundy has done a great job there.   The facility upgrade has helped a lot, and they've had some really good players come through the last few years.   It's going to be a huge challenge.

Q.   (No microphone) because of the margin of defeat the last couple of years.   Has that kind of come up about? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, that's close to a hundred.   That's what they beat us by the last two years.   So I wanted to make sure they knew that.   And hopefully they have some pride in themselves when they see that.

Q.   Is that your (No microphone)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah.

Q.   Have you seen the pictures of the little kids dressing up like you for Halloween? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I did.   That one kid nailed it.   That was really good.   He nailed it.   He had it all.   That was good.

Q.   What are you going as for Halloween? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Nothing this year.   Nothing, just hanging out.   Not a lot of places to go for me here.   So I'll be at my house.

Q.   The first interception on Saturday, was Bradley in the wrong place? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   No, Davis was just fired up and taking a shot.   But that's not exactly where we wanted it to go.   We had some other options on that play.   He was just fired up and going for the gust owe.   But that wasn't really the correct throw at that time.

Q.   (No microphone)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just checked it down.   We had a couple guys running pretty open.   But that's a freshman trying to make a play.   He's just going for it.

Q.   (No microphone)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Raiderville?   It's been awesome.   I'd love to have it back.   I remember when they were really rolling in '08 there were people there on Monday and Tuesday setting up.   It's fun for the players to come through the building and walk through that and see that.   It's just a great vibe when you're winning at that level.

Q.   Is Davis going to start this week? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Davis will start this week.   Yes, he's earned that with his play these last few weeks.   So he'll get the nod this week.

Q.   Is he (Indiscernible) more of what we think or is it more perception? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   No, he's getting us into some good plays.   That will continue to grow as he grows as a player.   He's done a great job on the mental side of things for being a true freshman and not playing a ton yet.

Q.   How have you seen him rebound from his first career loss on Saturday? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   He's handled adversity really well this year.   From not getting the nod, being the starter, he's going to bounce back and try to be better than ever.   That's been his mentality since he's gotten here.

Q.   Some folks have wondered regarding Michael Brewer, is he fully available to you?   Or is he just too far behind Davis to be an option right now? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, that's a tough question because fully available means can he roll out there and play right away?   He missed a lot of football.   He's still working on his game and getting back in football shape and things of that nature.   But health‑wise we feel good about putting him in a game.

Q.   So physically there's no‑‑
COACH KINGSBURY:   Physically we feel good about him.   Yeah, we just got to get him caught up in some areas.

Q.   What is the key to stopping Oklahoma State's receiving corps? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I don't have an answer.   Need to get pressure on the quarterback and got to get your hands on.   Can't let those guys run free in space.   Stewart is one of the best in the country, and he's a guy who makes plays for them each and every week.   Got to know where he's at at all times.

Q.   Do you expect any special guests considering the pro players who have bye weeks this week? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I don't know.   I haven't talked to any of them, but that would be cool if a couple of them came back.

Q.   Do you think that is the key match‑up, your secondary against their receivers? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I think all over.   I think our D‑line has to step up big with what I saw them doing in the run game last week with Oklahoma State.   We'll have to really play well up front and the receivers have to hold up.   Because the quarterback is an experienced guy who has been in that system a long time and he knows where to go with it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT