TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 14, 2013
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Could you talk about your relationship with Dana Holgorsen? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, we go way back.   He coached inside receivers when I was playing quarterback here, and when I got out of playing, he's the one who got me a job at the University of Houston, and I actually lived with him when I worked there, so very close. 
Obviously, we don't talk as much now that we're in the same conference.   But I have a ton of respect for him and I wouldn't be here right now if it weren't for him.

Q.   Aside from getting healthy, what are you seeing on the offensive lines allowing you to produce more? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I think they're getting in shape is the number one thing.   You can see more effort throughout all four quarters.   Playing at the tempo we want to play at, playing at the speed we want to play at, and then the hustle has really picked up, so that's encouraging.   That solves a lot of problems when they're playing that hard.

Q.   (Indiscernible) where you kind of get where you want to be in terms of offensive plays? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, we don't have a number, just points at the end.   So obviously we keep the defense out there with that many plays, you're hoping they'll tire somewhat, and you'll be able to make some plays against them.   But we don't have a set goal going into the game.   It's just about points.

Q.   Could you update us on the status of all three of your quarterbacks? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, Baker, we'll get him over here today and see how he feels.   Davis is good and Mike's good.   So we'll see if we have all three available this week.   We should know by the end of the week.

Q.   Can you speak to the performance of Davis Webb winning Big 12 Offensive Player of the Week this year in his first start? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, now there are two of them that have done that.   It's fun to see.   He was disappointed earlier in the year, obviously, at not being named the starter, but never blinked an eye.   Kept working and kept getting better, and he's progressed and progressed and progressed, and really played well and made some big‑time throws.   I'm excited to see him have that success, and I'm sure he's going to keep getting better.

Q.   What is the best attribute that Baker has or that they've shown so far? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, Davis is kind of a surgeon as far as studying film.   You give a play to him once, and he has it figured out.   I think his mentality is really mature for his age.   Baker is a play maker when he goes out there.   His ability to extend plays and keep things alive and go off script is going that he's really good at.

Q.   (Indiscernible) how good is it going to be once all three of them are completely healthy? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   It's hard to have a competition in week 7, which make it's tough because you don't have enough reps.   You're trying to get one guy ready for the game.   So they've been very supportive of each other.   We'll get as many reps to each guy as we can, and play the one that we feel gives us the best chance to win a game every week.

Q.   What are some of the things West Virginia does well on defense? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   The biggest deal, you watch the film, is how multiple they are.   They're playing with a lot of confidence.   I know they had a rough night in Waco, but aside from that, they've played really good defense.   They've turned people over, lots of negative plays wreaking havoc.   You never know where they're going to lineup.   Week‑in and week‑out they look like a completely different team as far as games go.   That obviously is a challenge for a young quarterback.

Q.   The bump in the road for special teams, did you find of reiterate how important that aspect is to the players?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, we've touched on that, and made some changes in personnel there, and to still be able to win that game and play that battle in one phase is a credit to our team.   To have it happen right at the mid‑way point where we can we assess and reevaluate, I think it couldn't have come at a better time.   So hopefully we'll get that fixed this week.

Q.   Will Kramer Fyfe be available Saturday?
COACH KINGSBURY:   I'm not sure.   He's another guy we've got to get him over here today and see where he's at, but I would assume he could go.

Q.   Could you kind of talk about the three running backs that were 80 yards?   Kind of seemed to get the mojo going with the running game?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, our O‑line, like I said earlier, they played really well.   Their conditioning showed up later in the game when we had to have those yards and had to seal the game, which was fun to see that game‑winning drive there at the end.   Then those backs, as I said all along, they'll make the plays if we can give them a little bit of daylight and we did that.

Q.   Any unique challenges to traveling to West Virginia, just because no one's ever been there before, new hotel, and no one really knows quite what their stadium is like?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I guess if you let it be.   For us it's a road game and we'll have to leave a little earlier for the longer flight, but we'll keep our routine the exact same.   We'll go to the hotel, wake up early and go play the game.   I think our kids are more excited more than anything.   Most of the them have never been to West Virginia in their lives.   They say the stadium is unbelievable, the fans are unbelievable, so it will be a great atmosphere for all of us to experience.

Q.   The way the other two road trips have been treated this year? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just treat them like business trips like we talked about.   They know what they're going there to do.   Play our game and play at the highest level.   The maturity, our seniors have really stepped up in that area.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, not bad, not bad.   You know, young guy, still learning, but he does a good job of getting lined up, being where he's supposed to be.   I think the sky's the limit with his potential.   He'll continue to work hard and grow into that position.   He's just a football player.   In high school he was a great player, and he's kind of carried that over here.   Not the biggest, not the fastest, but makes plays.

Q.   Talked a lot about how obviously Baker's circumstances at the beginning of the year, and (Indiscernible) starting in high school.   He kind of fell through the cracks?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, we have a really good relationship with Coach Wasson at South Lake, and Coach Wasson continually spoke highly of him.   So we've really made him a priority as far as a free agent goes on our team.   He had some guys here from South Lake that encouraged them to come, and we're very fortunate that he chose Texas Tech to walk on.

Q.   Do you know what the competition was for him? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I don't.   I'm not aware of that.

Q.   Do you feel like West Virginia has a little bit more of an advantage being that they had a bye week last week? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I don't.   I've never been a big proponent of bye weeks besides to get healthy.   I think when get rolling, it's good to keep that going, keep the routine and keep practice going.   I don't think that will play either way.

Q.   How's Kerry Hyder compared to some other elite defensive tackles and defensive linemen you've been around and seen? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   He's up there.   He's probably not as big as some of the guys I've seen, but he plays hard and he shows up on tape over and over and over again.   He had a tremendous game.   I think ten tackles from the nose position, which is incredible, last week.   He's been a real leader for that defense.

Q.   Do you know anything more about Dartwan today? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I don't.   Same deal.   I've got to get him over here and we'll figure it out today.

Q.   Same thing with Gaines? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, same with Gaines.   Got to get him over here, talk to Anthony and see where they're at. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT