TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 12, 2013
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Can you talk about your decision to go with Davis Webb and stick with him throughout the whole game? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, Baker wasn't ready to go, so Davis was the guy, and he played well.   We have some throws out there that he'd like to have back and some things he could have hit, but I liked the way he handled himself and stayed composed.   When we needed a drive, he made them, so that was fun to see.

Q.   Can you just talk about the overall performance today, offense, defense, and special teams just your general assessment? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I was just excited about the win.   Anytime you lose a turnover battle 3‑0 and pretty much get dominated on special teams and still win the game by two touchdowns, you have a chance to have a pretty good team.   That was exciting they found a way to win, but lots of areas to improve upon.

Q.   Seemed like the running game looked like night and day from what we'd seen earlier in the year.   What was going on there? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, they were giving us some runs.   Keeping too high a bunch of the game, and gave us numbers in the run game, and our O‑line did a great job moving bodies.   And our backs are very talented.   All three of those guys got touches today.   Hopefully we can keep that going, and if it's there, we'll take it.

Q.   Could you talk about SaDale running the ball the last couple of weeks? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, he's a play maker.   Every time he gets to the game it's the right spot, right time, whether it's the passing game or running game, and makes the play.   So it's fun to have a guy like that part of your offense, and we try to get touches in different ways and he's made the most of them.

Q.   Could you talk about the start 6‑0, what's that mean to you? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Nothing, really.   It is what it is.   We've talked about we just attack each week and try to get better.   So we got better this week and got to do it again next week.

Q.   Could you talk about the defense on third down? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   What were their stats, do you know? 

Q.   One was 3 for 16. 
COACH KINGSBURY:   3 for 16, that's good.   Because I think offensively we were 3 for 16.   They needed to do it.   They've been great on third down all year.   They've been great at three‑and‑outs and have played really well.   We've had the kickoff return for a touchdown.   We put them in a bad spot with that interception for a touchdown.   Other than that, you look at the stats and they had another tremendous day defensively.

Q.   You guys doubled them up in yards.   Could you talk about the overall performance and what did you think about that? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, that type of yardage difference you need a bigger differential in points, and we didn't score.   We had the one turnover in the red zone, missed a field goal when we should have scored a touchdown.   We've got to continue to get better down there in the red zone to score points.   In this league you've got to be able to keep up, and field goals and turnovers aren't going to cut it.

Q.   Talk about the first half, Marquez fumbled close to the end zone.   Was it nice to see him redeem himself? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, he's a very talented kid.   Confident kid.   That didn't faze him at all.   He knew he was going to come back and make a big‑time play, and we have all the faith in the world to him.

Q.   Can you speak about on special teams because the first two scores by Iowa State came as a result of big special team play? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, it wasn't very good.   Had the kickoff and had guys there to make plays and didn't make them.   Then the short punt, we've got to be yelling, alert in that and bounced off.   So there are two touchdowns right there.   I thought they did a good job on special teams.   They had good schemes, good players and beat us on special teams all day.

Q.   There were a number of calls and non‑calls that didn't necessarily go your way.   Could you speak to the poise of your team and where that comes from? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   That's part of the game.   They've been through that.   I don't know much else to say.   It's part of the game.   We don't worry about what the refs are doing.   We know we can control what we can control and we go about our way.

Q.   Talk about Grant and his production today.   What's his status? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   He's good, he's good.   I just saw him smiling and joking around after this.   So I guess he just got banged up a little bit.   But he's a talented player.   Anytime we can get the ball in his hands, something good seems to happen.   So we have to continue to do that.

Q.   Davis seemed to be checking out with some frequency.   Did you like his decision with that route? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, he did a better job of taking what they gave him.   Once we watch film and go over some stuff, he's going to see some stuff he missed.   But really proud of his poise, and like I said, the game got close.   If you get within one touchdown, he'd have a big drive, and that's what you want in your quarterback.

Q.   (Indiscernible) not only were you able to run it, but run the clock out with it which is very important?
COACH KINGSBURY:   That was a big time drive.   We talked about winning the game.   We knew we need two first downs to be able to run out the clock, and they went and got it.   So that was fun to watch.

Q.   Jeremiah George got the interception late in the game.   It was a close game at the time.   What did you tell your players? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Let's go win it.   We said that was our fault and they've got to make up for it, which is awesome.   They asked him to respond.   They respond like that.   That's a good feeling and it shows that we're progressing as a team.

Q.   How do you feel like Davis ran the offense overall? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I'll have to watch the film.   But he scored 42 points and having almost 700 yards that's good production.   We'll watch the film, see how he did, and try to get better next week.   I'll be asking the same quarterback questions next week.   So that will be fun.

Q.   Could you just talk about the overall luxury when your starter goes down, they plug in the next guy.   It's 60% of the passes.   A lot of teams just take that (Indiscernible)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I've said it all along, we've got three guys that can win ballgames and they have the nature of the position.   Only one guy can play.   It makes it tough in that room, and I wish they could all play, and they can't.   They're all competing, and they're getting better, and you can see that by their play the last couple of weeks.

Q.   Your team committed only four penalties for 30 yards, how do you feel about that? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   That's good.   That's good.   We're heading in the right direction.   That's been the problem around here.   We've talked about it, addressed it, so we've got to continue to work at that.   But that's a good start.

Q.   Could you speak about the turnover battle with Davis Webb threw an interception and Bradley Marquez had a fumble, and Baker Mayfield and Davis both had five interceptions on the year.   Are there any things that you guys hoped to shore up for next week? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, they're young and they're going to make mistakes.   But ten interceptions by week six, that's too many.   We'll work on that and try to get those numbers down.   But our defense has done a great job responding when we do put them in those positions.   I think this is one of the first fumbles we've actually lost.   So the running back is doing a good job protecting him.   We've just got to take care of it at the quarterback position.

Q.   How does it feel to be Bowl eligible? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   We don't worry about that.   Like I said, it's just on to the next week.   It's every week trying to get better.   So that's never been our goal.   We've never had a goal.   Just each week it gets better and see how it shakes out in the end.

Q.   In terms of the yardage, is this one of the better defensive approaches for the year? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   It was up there.   They're a talented team.   The running back is a talented player, the quarterback, number 9, makes a ton of plays for them.   You saw that last week against Texas.   We knew we had to play well.   We put them in bad spots offensive‑wise and special teams, but other than that they did a good job getting off the field.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Sunday.

Q.   And on special teams, (Indiscernible)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Next week.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   I always like them.   Yeah, I'm an early riser.   I like getting the game done and can you get on to the next opponent and get your kids healthy.   So I enjoy the early kickoffs.

Q.   Any indication how long Dartwan has? 
COACH KINGSBURY:   I don't.   I don't.   I just know he tweaked his knee and we'll have to go from there.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, he had some lingering stuff from the week before, so I'll have to check on him as well.   Not sure the extent of that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT