TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 9, 2013
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Can you talk about the challenge for the defense facing a pretty strong dual‑threat in Boykin?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   It is, yeah.   He's a guy, I watched that LSU game as it happened, and he's a guy who jumps out at you when you watch him play.   That's one of the most athletic defenses we've played last year when I played against them, and the things he was able to do with his feet and his arms shows you what type of an athlete he is.   
It's going to be a huge challenge trying to contain him with his arms and his legs.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the ground game?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, those are two of the more explosive players in the country, and then you throw in Carter who is out there making plays as a wideout.   They're very talented on offense.   They have great speed, great explosiveness, and we'll have to try to find a way to contain those guys.  
   
 Q.   Does it help at all that some of these guys on the defense have seen Boykin before and know what he does?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   I'm not sure.   It looks like he's progressed a lot as a player just watching these first two games, so I'm sure he's got a lot to prove, and you can tell that he's come a long way in his progress as a QB these first two weeks.  
   
 Q.   Would you have preferred to play against Pachall?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   It's kind of pick your poison.   Pachall is a good first round talent, and then you bring in a guy that's as good a dual‑threat as there is in the country.   It will be a tough challenge this week.  
   
 Q.   What do you think about just in general playing a ranked team, first conference?   How prepared do you feel your team is for the step up in competition?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   We'll find out.   It's a great measuring stick.   They're at the top of the conference, and if you look at all the preseason polls where people would pick them with all the returners they have coming back, it's going to be a great challenge.   I'm not sure where we're at as a team, but I know they're really good.  
   
 Q.   Robertson said the other day after the game that the biggest difference for him between game one and two was the communication with the defense and the coaches.   Is there something that you saw that your team was doing after the first game and second game that stood out to you after the film?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   I just think you can't replicate or simulate game day.   We tried to do in practice and scrimmage, but until you get out there under the lights things are moving that fast.   So it took that first week to work out some of the kinks and hopefully most of those are out.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the history and tradition of this rivalry?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, it's good to have it back.   I didn't play it when I was here, and I know it went away in the Southwest Conference for a time.   But both fan bases are very passionate and seem to enjoy this rivalry, so I think it's good that we get to play them every year, and it should be good for the fans.  
   
 Q.   How has the Thursday game kind of changed up your routine?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just have to adjust some things, cut some things down and really talk to the kids about mental reps.   You're not going to get as many physical reps on the field as you would in a normal week.   So it's about film study, taking care of their bodies and being able to handle that quick turnaround.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about Baker's mobility and just using that mobility at times?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, as a young quarterback, it's survival mode a lot of times out there, and he did a great job extending plays, keeping plays alive and made some huge third downs with his feet last week.   And as he continues to progress in our offense, hopefully, he'll know when to run and when to hang in there and throw the ball, and we're still working through that.  
   
 Q.   Do you design anything to tailor your offense to his running ability?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, we'll adapt to what he can do best and take it from there.  
   
 Q.   Is there a chance that Quinton might see some playing time on Thursday?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, there is a chance, there is a chance.   Y'all saw he got in and executed the offense well.   He's been really performing well on special teams.   So he's pushing his way towards some playing time.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk about Kramer Fyfe and his kickoffs:   Is it the strong leg, technique, is it just second year of doing it?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I think he's just comfortable.   We see it every day in practice.   He's just very confident, very consistent with his stroke, so that's been a huge weapon for us, especially this week.   If we can put him through the end zone and not allow Catalon to touch the ball ever, I mean, he's the best in the country right now.   So we need to try to put it through every time we can.  
   
 Q.   Who is taking first team reps at right guard?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   This week it was James Polk.  
   
 Q.   Do you anticipate Carpenter being in the mix this week?   Does he have a chance?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   We'll see.   Same deal, day‑to‑day.   He's a guy that's a veteran and we know what he can do.   If he was ready on Saturday, we'd put him in.   So we're working through that.  
   
 Q.   Kliff, this arguably is the toughest defense so far this year that you'll be facing.   Are you going to make any adjustments on the offensive line to trying to accommodate to that sort of uptick in skill from TCU?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just try to get them better this week.   It's going to be a huge challenge.   This is by far the best defensive line we'll have faced and one of the best we're going to face all year.   Not just Fields.   He's a tremendous player, but the entire D‑line, and Coach Bumpas is one of the best coaches in America.   You turn them on tape, there are no weaknesses; they attack our game.   We'll have to play our best game to try to attack Baker.  
   
 Q.   What are you most impressed with by what they do offensively?   Yourself as a quarterback, when you turn on tape of them, what do you think is the biggest thing?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I would say there are never any easy yards.   You have to earn every inch you get.   They never bust.   They never make a mistake.   If you hit a deep play, it's because you made a great play, and I think that's a sign of a well‑coached defense.   You see that each and every day.   
You try to turn on the film and try to find something, but it's not there.   They do a great job coaching those guys and they're always in the right place to make plays.  
   
 Q.   Do you have an update on Michael Brewer, how he's doing in his recovery?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah.   He's doing well.   That's really all I've got.   I talk to Anthony every day, and he updates me and says it's day‑to‑day, and I expect him to be throwing very soon.  
   
 Q.   Does Tre' more of an asset this week than usual?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Tre's always an asset.   He brings so much energy, not only in coaching him and the recruiting side of it, but passionate about this place.   It hasn't changed.   He has a tremendous amount of respect for Coach Patterson at TCU and he loves those kids.   So it will be mixed emotions for him.   But we're excited he's here, and I know he's happy to be back at Texas Tech.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any connections to Gary Patterson or his family?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   I do not.   No, just watching from afar, just the record he's compiled there in his 13 years, I think it's 117‑37 or something, ridiculous.   He's one of the best in the country in developing players and does a tremendous job.  
   
 Q.   To follow‑up on Michael Brewer, whatever time comes that he's cleared, considering his practice time, how much practice time do you anticipate he'll need to get back into it?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   I think quite a bit.   We have that bye week coming up which should help.   But I would assume it's going to be an extended period of time before we feel like he'd be game ready.   It's not easy with the style of play that we have, up‑tempo, and how much we put on our quarterback to just roll right in and pick it up.  
   
 Q.   What has Micah Awe brought?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   He's full‑speed, full‑go all the time.   He's a great student‑athlete, and just brings energy each and every day.   He's one of the vocal leaders on our team and does things the right way, so you appreciate that about him.  
   
 Q.   Any chance Carlos Thompson will be returning more punts for you guys?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   He did a good job.   He put the one on the ground, which you don't like to see.   He's still young and growing up.   But it was fun to see when the lights turned on, that he likes that moment.   That's encouraging.   He's the guy really bright future if he can continue to handle his business on and off the field.  
   
 Q.   Anything special you're going to tell Baker this week about playing his first Big 12 game and what folks he's going to be up against?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   No, he's played in big moments.   When you play in State Championship games in front of 50,000 people in high school like he did.   So he's got a chip on his shoulder, and he's got goals.   He's trying to prove a lot of people wrong, so I know he's excited about this opportunity.  
   
 Q.   With that chip on the shoulder, does it increase with TCU, especially since it's been documented that's where he wanted to go?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   I'll leave that to y'all, but I know he'll be fired up.  
   
 Q.   Where's the focus of the front seven on defense this week with such a nice offense that TCU has?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, they have to contain the quarterback first and foremost.   Can't let him get running wild because he can hurt you with his legs.   I think that is the biggest deal.   Try to contain him as much as he can, because they've got Carter streaking down the field and a couple other receiver that's can really run.  
   
 Q.   Your special teams, you mentioned we talked about Kramer early.   You've had some good returns and pretty good coverage seems like on punts and kickoffs both.   How pleased have you been in special teams overall?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   It's very exciting.   We've made that an emphasis since we got here that our good players are going to play on special teams.   So starters play.   When we need to develop young guys that step in and take pride in that role.   I think our assistant coach has done a really good job.   It's led by Coach Haverty, but all the assistants play a role for our team, and so far they've done a good job.  
   
 Q.   Coach, I know you're the OC and head coach, but do you chime in on the defensive side of the ball since you run the offense?   Do you kind of say, hey, you need to look at this or telling them how to read their keys?   Since you're so offensive minded do you ever tell them, hey, this is probably what we need to do or whatever the case may be?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, more when we play similar offenses so Oklahoma State, West Virginia, things of that nature, I'll just kind of give him my two cents, but that's his baby and I let him roll with it.  
   
 Q.   After that game last year what kind of stood out to you after that triple overtime last year?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just that it was a heck of a football game.   Both teams kept going back and forth and a lot of good players made plays, so it was fun to watch on film.   So hopefully we can have another great game this year.  
   
 Q.   You talked about (Indiscernible)?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, he's, since I saw him in the spring, he's one of the more explosive players I've coached, and we're going to try to get him the ball anyway we can.   When he get it's, special things happen.   
He's got to continue to work on areas of his game, route technique, blocking, things of that nature.   But you can't coach that explosiveness that he has.   So we'll keep trying to give him the ball.  
   
 Q.   Jordan Davis, could he be back this week?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, yeah.   I think he's progressing well but he'll be a game‑time decision.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT