TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 6, 2013
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  COACH KINGSBURY:   Okay.   Really excited about this class.   Obviously, got into the game a little bit late, but thought these coaches did an outstanding job of finishing strong.   They had a bunch of relationships already when I got here, and did a good job following us and getting a bunch of guys that we needed, immediate needs at certain positions, and that was really our focus.   
We knew we'd be behind in the game a little bit, but wanted to see what our roster had on it and attack those areas of need.   I thought our coaches did a great job.   Ended up signing 22 guys, two that came in mid‑year, and 24 total, and   all really talented players that we're excited to get.   So I'll open it up for questions now.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about what it's been like playing catch up?   The workload, how all encompassing was the effort for you guys?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   There's been a lot.   The biggest deal is recruiting the staff and players at the same time for me.   But like I said, I can't commend our staff enough for the effort they've put in and the way they hustled and found guys and our coaching staff really did an outstanding job of locating the players we needed and getting that done.  
   
 Q.   That offensive line, you have a couple of big guys in that area (No microphone)?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, we think it's one of the best classes that we've had around here probably in quite some time just based on size and stature.   Guys that we expect to come in and play right away.   
That was a big need going into it.   We lost some guys on the offensive line and there have been some injuries, so the numbers have been down in that area, so we needed guys to come in and play right away.  
   
 Q.   One of your wide receivers is graduating.   You brought in a handful of those guys.   What are your thoughts on that?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   It's a good group.   A couple of guys that can really fly, Cantrell and Thompson.   Thompson's one of the least heralded guys in our class, but had some of the best stats and played everything for Manvel, and they were a good team.   
Cantrell's solid, great hands, and there are a couple of guys that can really run when you're talking about D.J. and Devin, guys that can fly on a national level, so that was huge.   
We're trying to get that speed up on offense and defense, and that was a big step for us.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   We're big on that.   Big on best athlete, Kevin Curtis is big on that when he's recruiting defensive backs.   So we have some guys that are more athletic and once we get them here, we'll find a home for them.   But you can't coach the speed and athleticism, so you want to get that and try to them here.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk specifically about some players that you see right away playing or impact players for you?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I would say any of those offensive linemen jump out, and receiver‑wise, obviously, we have some really good ones coming back, but those guys will hop right in there.   
But as far as specific names, we recruit them all to play.   I think that's kind of our philosophy on it.   We wouldn't recruit a guy if we thought he was a down‑the‑road.   We want guys that can come in and help us right now.  
   
 Q.   Three guys from Martin Luther King High School in Georgia.   What is their connection to Texas Tech?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   That's a good question.   They just like Texas Tech.   Coach Haverty had a great relationship there and does a great job talking to those kids.   They're great players and guys that really fit our system.   So it really worked out.   There are a lot of great players in that state, and it just worked out that way.  
   
 Q.   You have guys that are 6'3" and lean.   Do you have a plan for those guys?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   I think it falls into the athlete category.   Guys that we love their effort on tape.   We love the way they can run and jump and do certain things athletically.   We'll find a place for them once they get here.  
   
 Q.   How important are the track guys that you got?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   It's big.   Like I said, speed is one thing you can't coach, and we're trying to be the fastest in the Big 12.   That's our goal with the way we want to play on offense and defense.  
   
 Q.   What's it mean to get a quarterback as heralded as Davis Webb?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   That was a great pick‑up.   The previous staff did a great job of recruiting him.   I was very aware of him when I was at Texas A&M, great kid, very talented.   He gets bigger and bigger.   
I saw him yesterday.   He was 210 pounds and loves football.   Can't get enough of it.   So we're excited about what the future holds for him.  
   
 Q.   Anybody who got away that you're sort of disappointed about?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   No, never.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the process of Kevin Lauderdale and how you got him back into the fold?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I think he just wanted to see how it all shook out.   Coach Morris did a great job building a relationship with him and really making him feel like this was the best situation for him.   He's one of those guys, like I said, with his speed, it's at a national level.   That's something that we really need here, and we're excited to get him on the field and see what he can do.  
   
 Q.   Where do you project Gary Moore?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Right now we see him as a wideout.   He's a guy that can play multiple positions, but tall, athletic, long, and really raw still.   I think when he gets here and gets into our system and around our coaches, I think the sky's the limit.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   We'll see.   I know our defensive coaches are still on a couple of guys, but we'll see how it plays out.   No specifics as of now.  
   
 Q.   Getting ready for spring practice, you know that's where it all gets going?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, that's a big part of it.   As I said earlier, I know these recruits a lot better than I know any of these players here.   So it will be good to know them, get around them, get them comfortable with our system and our coaches.   So that's the fun part.   We're all looking forward to that.  
   
 Q.   How satisfied are ou with this class?   As you said, you guys were playing catch‑up.  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Very satisfied.   Like I said, I think the way these assistants attacked it, these coaches, they really took it personal.   They're very competitive.   A lot of them still think they should be playing, so they have a lot of drive in this recruiting deal.   And I think we filled immediate needs.   That's what we're after.   We knew we're getting into it late and we better get the guys that can come in and play right away, and I think we did that.  
   
 Q.   What do you think headlines this class on the offensive side of the ball?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   I don't really get into that.   We want them all here as far as headliners, so we're excited to have every one of them.  
   
 Q.   You said a lot of these guys still feel like they can play.   How does that translate on a recruiting trip?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   They're not too far removed from being one of the really successful players on the college level.   When you speak to that level as a prospective student‑athlete, there is a little more street cred involved when you talk about your experience at college in the Big 12 and even in the NFL in some cases.   So it's been well‑received by everybody we've been in contact with.  
   
 Q.   How did you feel after the transition when you got down to eight or ten commitments with not a whole lot of time left?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   We knew that's a process.   Once we finally got a staff put together in here, we really targeted immediate needs and went to those guys we feel like we can play it right away.  
   
 Q.   Coach, can you talk about your philosophy in regards to junior college players and what you look for when recruiting those kids?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   It's one of those deals where they show up on tape and you like what you see athletically and you see the drive, and get good reports from their coaches at those prospective junior colleges, with immediate needs and being late in the game, it's a place to look to try to fill some spots.  
   
 Q.   How was your signing days as a player compared to as a coach?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   It's lot better as a player.   As a player, it's everything.   It's a dream come true.   It's what you've worked for.   So, as a coach, I enjoy the recruiting process.   But as a player, you're in high school, it's your firs experience doing it and there is nothing that can top that.  
   
 Q.   On a coaching level, how much did you learn about your staff throughout this process?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   I was pretty familiar with all of them on the coaching level being around them in the coaching profession.   But watching their drive and energy and competitiveness, how they take it personal.   When they didn't get a player, had to talk about the edge a little bit a few times.   But you want that.   You want them to be competitive.   
They did a great job relating to the players, that was the biggest thing I saw.   Great relationships were built in a short amount of time, and that bodes really well for the future.  
   
 Q.   Moving forward, what do you expect this staff to do in signing days ahead?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   We'll continue to get better.   Continue to improve.   They're off to a fast start for 2014 already.   Have some great relationships built and we will continue as a staff to get better through the entire process.  
   
 Q.   Do you expect to sign more Texas kids in the future?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   We'll see.   We'll see.   Obviously, Texas has a ton of great players, we're going to find player that's we think fit our systems and are good character kids.  
   
 Q.   Did you say the guys from Georgia (No microphone)?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   He had known a player in that high school previously, and had some relationships in that high school.  
   
 Q.   You have six guys (No microphone).   Is there an ideal number for scholarships?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   Not an ideal number.   Just the numbers were really low in that position, those positions, corner and safety.   And with the tempo all of these Big 12 teams play at and as many receivers as they run at you, I don't think you can have enough.  
   
 Q.   Talk about any transfers?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Not yet.  
   
 Q.   What else do you need to do to recruit for this team?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   We've had a couple of meetings, and I think they know the direction we want this program to go.   They're excited by all accounts and from what I've seen, and they want to be good.   I think it's a hungry team.   I'm excited to really start working with them.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   We felt good, but you never know.   You never know until the fax comes in.   But we did feel good about the ones that were undecided.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Currently, not great.   Not great.   There are some really good players, but overall numbers, just sheer numbers aren't very good for what you want in the Big 12.   So that was definitely an area of concern, and I thought we did a great job addressing it and getting some players coming to play right away.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT