TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 8, 2018
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Texas Tech - 77, Lamar - 0   
 Q.  Coach, is that the performance you were looking for from your team today, what you saw?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: You know, defensively I thought it was good to get a shutout.  It wasn't the cleanest game.  Offense there were way too many penalties.  That's something we talked about, doing the little things and not hurting ourselves.  We didn't get that accomplished.  I thought we did some decent things, but that was disappointing offensively.   
 Q.  Three touchdowns called back by penalty.  How do you address that in practice this week?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, we tried to address it last week, and got to continue to address it.  We can't do that, put ourselves in negative positions, 3rd and long, 2nd and long.  Last week against Ole Miss we were in 3rd and long a ton, and that's not how we want to play offense this year.  We'll keep harping on it.  We'll keep finding the right guys that can go on and execute plays without committing penalties.   
 Q.  Was it nice to still see them score on a couple of those after that and keep fighting?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, you want that mentality, to handle the adversity of that and continue to go, but as our competition gets better, we can't continue to put ourselves in that position.   
 Q.  Thoughts on Alan's performance today?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Well, I thought what he's done really well the last two games is not have negative plays, no sacks, and hasn't turned the football over, and that's what we're looking for.  Be efficient, make quick decisions, and eliminate negative plays, and that gives us a chance.   
 Q.  Did you use the whole playbook this week?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: This week, yeah, this week.  He had all the one reps this week.  The previous week he didn't, so when McLane went down, obviously it was adjusted somewhat to do things that he was comfortable with and we felt like he could execute, which shrunk it down some, but this week he got all the one reps, and so we cut it loose.   
 Q.  In the second half when you went to some of your second and third and even walk-on guys defensively, could you kind of sense an initiative to keep the shutout and preserve that?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, I think so.  I think Coach Gibbs had done a good job of talking at halftime.  Whoever goes in the game, there's a standard that we expect you to play at.  So I felt like some of those twos and threes that got in handled their business, and that's what we were looking for.   
 Q.  Tony Jones made some plays throughout the game and (indiscernible) --  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, Tony has gotten better and better since he's been here.  Last year I felt like it was moving pretty fast for him, and this year he seems to understand the scheme, and he's very athletic off the edge.  Seems to always get his hands on the football.  So we've just got to keep progressing.  Him and Colin are a nice one-two punch there at that rush, so hopefully he continues to evolve and continues to make plays.   
 Q.  We also saw the freshmen max a lot in this game.  What did you think about them?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, we sat Da'Leon and Tre, so we felt like we wanted to get them going.  They both do different things well.  SaRodorick is a bigger back and Ta is kind of a scout back, so we tried to play to their strengths, and I thought they made some decent plays.  A couple times they did some stuff you'd like to have back, but they're getting better.   
 Q.  Were Da'Leon and Tre able to go, or is there some reason they didn't?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, Da'Leon could have, Tre couldn't.  I expect them both to be back quickly, but we just wanted to be smart with Da'Leon.   
 Q.  What's the severity of Tre's injury?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Not very.  It was kind of just wanted to give them a few days off here through the weekend to get back for next week.   
 Q.  What was the reason that Vasher didn't play?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Just wanted to change some things up.  He'll play moving forward, but De'Quan has done a good job and sort of got him some reps early.   
 Q.  On the 66-yard touchdown pass to Wesley, that looked like a ball that could have been intercepted.  Was that a mistake that worked out or is there something good that Bowman did on that play?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, they play cover zero, so he knows if they're in that pressure look, that DB is going to expect the ball out quick, so he didn't back up one-on-one, which he had, but he needed to know that guy wasn't going to back up much.  The ball placement was good or else it would have been picked.  So it's something he'll learn from and move forward, but we'll take the result of it.  I think if you can learn from it and still have a positive play, that's a win-win.   
 Q.  After watching Bowman and Duffey today, as much as they played, did that make your decision for starting quarterback harder or easier?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: You know, we'll have to watch the film and see, but you want to get both those guys as many reps as possible.  You want to get McLane as many reps as possible.  All three haven't played a ton of college football, but all three capable, and that's what I've said all along, and so we've just got to continue when we get a chance to rep all three, rep all three, and it just makes the whole room better.   
 Q.  What is the status of McLane right now?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: We'll see.  It's still day-to-day.  I don't have an answer.  He looks better than he did last week at this time, and hopefully he progresses again through next week.   
 Q.  How do you think Jett handled himself?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: You know, he's explosive.  He can do different things.  He's got a great arm, very talented.  The one interception, we can't throw that.  That was an easy read, but he made some great plays there that not many people can make, so he's just got to keep coming.   
 Q.  Which one of the three quarterbacks that was in today did you see was most impressive, or were they each impressive in their own way?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, I'll have to watch the film and really evaluate it.  The big deal to me was just not turning the ball over, protecting the football and making quick decisions, and I think Alan did a nice job of that, of having no negative plays.   
 Q.  What were your thoughts on Demarcus Feldman, his performance today?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, it was good to see him get as many reps as he did and find the end zone a couple times.  He's a hard worker, has been, waited his turn here, and shows up and does everything right each and every day, so you always want to cheer for a guy like that.   
 Q.  What did De'Quan Bowman give you in the return game with the big punt return today?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, it's the same with Felton.  It's a guy who's stuck around for three years and now getting an opportunity to kind of show what he can do.  It's two big returns in two games, and hopefully that continues.  He can play any receiver spot.  He gives us that return game aspect, and so he's really been a key component to our offense and special teams.   
 Q.  Did you think the defense was feeling a little more as far as the turnovers went?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I think so.  I mean, that's something we harp on, and there were a couple nice plays, getting hands on footballs and getting it out, and we've got to continue to do that as the season goes.  We know we have a great team coming in next week, very explosive offense, playing at a high level.  They had a big win today, so we're going to have to play our best next week.   
 Q.  The new rule changes this off-season allowing players to four games and still be able to redshirt, how many doors did that open for guys today who have not had the chance to play and maybe could get into this game?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, there were some that we took advantage of, and some you kind of want to wait and see how it plays out late in the year, so you don't use all those games up when you may need them towards the end of the year when you have some attrition.  There were definitely a couple guys that because of that rule were able to get some live game experience today, which is key.  You can't simulate that.   
 Q.  What did you think of Dominic's punting performance today?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: It was much improved.  He's got to continue to do that.  He can be a big weapon, not only in the open field but when we're down there close.  He has a good touch down there for those pooch punts, and he's got to continue to be consistent.   
 Q.  Hatfield kicking off this year as opposed to Barden, what's your thought on that?  Is it because he can kick the ball higher or get it down the field more?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, I think we're trying to get a lot of height on it and cover it, and he gives us that, and I think it keeps him in the game, keeps him warm and locked in, and he seems to like being able to do both.  So we'll keep rolling with that for the time being.   
 Q.  Some folks would say could you at least give Jett a package of plays to take advantage of what he can do with his legs.  Is that something you would consider, or is that kind of early since all these guys are so young you wouldn't want to necessarily disrupt one guy to --  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, I think there's a fine line.  I don't know if it's a disruption, but there is a fine line of making sure that you have a good flow and a good rhythm, whoever the starter is, but Jett has that capability to do some unique things, and as the season goes on, we'll see where that goes.   
 Q.  Is it impressive that the defense held them to a shutout today?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Any time you get a shutout at this level, you're doing something right.  We know that team was definitely overmatched, but you've got to tip your hat.  Any time you keep them off the scoreboard at all, you're doing something right.   
 Q.  How satisfying is it to shut out a team that scored 70 points the week before?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, I mean, like I said, it was a mismatch.  You know, Coach Schultz is trying to build that deal, and they had an opponent last week that they overmatched.  I don't know how much we can actually take from it, but like I mentioned, we kept them off the scoreboard, so you've got to tip your hat to our defense.   
 Q.  You talked about the mismatch; how much can you actually as a team that is overmatching them take away from a game like this?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: You've still got to go out there and execute plays and the lights are on and people in the stands, and like I've said all along, you can't simulate those type of game reps.  We have young quarterbacks that needed game reps; we have some backups that needed to get out there and execute on offense and on defense.  You take it for what it is, but you can't simulate game reps.  More than anything, you're just happy they got some in-game experience.   
 Q.  If the league had decided to go away from FCS games completely, what would your thoughts be on that?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I mean, I think it would be fine.  I don't know how that works.  I think it's good for those FCS programs.  They make a lot of money this way.  But whatever the league wants to do.   
 Q.  Watching all three of those quarterbacks that were in today, is that something you were more going for with the dual threat, both the running and the passing?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I mean, if you can have one that's really dynamic at both, that's what you're shooting for, I'd say.  All of the quarterbacks on our roster are athletic enough to keep it, do something with their legs, and so we're trying to kind of build our offense around that.   
 Q.  You have to be pleased with their performance, 30 of 35, that's pretty impressive.  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, not bad, not bad.  We just -- you know, there's an expectation to execute at that level, and when people are open, you hit them, and they were open today for a myriad of reasons, but they did hit them.   
 Q.  In the first half when you got close to that two-minute warning and y'all were calling time-outs to stop it before the two-minute warning, what's going through your mind there because that's something we typically don't see from this team when we're that far ahead.  What was your mindset?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Getting two-minute work with a young quarterback.  Same deal, in-game situation, working a two-minute drive with a true freshman quarterback who's never done that before.  That's what we wanted in that situation.   
 Q.  How severe is Travis Bruffy's injury?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: We'll see.  I think he should be back sooner than later, but it's a day-to-day deal.   
 Q.  Did he hurt that in the game last week?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: He did.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT