TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 16, 2017
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas Tech - 52, Arizona State - 45
Q. Dylan Cantrell had a heck of a night for you, Coach.  Made some unbelievable catches.
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, he's a talented player.  And that's what's fun.  All four of those guys on any given night can really get off like that and it happened to be his night.  All of them made plays, but he had some big-time catches for us.
Q. Seemed like y'all came out with really tremendous energy tonight.  Do you feel like you were able to sustain that most of the night or do you feel like there were some --
COACH KINGSBURY: No, I thought the crowd was awesome to start the game.  I think that really helped.  After the rain, you never know what's going to happen.  But they came back strong, making a lot of noise.  Our student section was unbelievable.  That helped.
Second half, I just made some poor calls, really.  Fourth down was an awful call and some other stuff we could have put the game away.  And so that's on me.  We moved the ball well, we executed well.  They got going.  Their backs were against the wall.  But I could have helped us finish that game.
Q. On that fourth-and-one call, what would you have called if you had?
COACH KINGSBURY: I would have given it to the big guy up the middle.  We shouldn't have went side to side on that and that's on me.  That's overthinking.
Q. You're happy to win any game, but how frustrating is it that you had it 21-3 and then commit all those defensive penalties, let them score one touchdown and have a fumble on the goal line?
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, we didn't play very well.  So to find a way -- I don't know if we would have won this game last year.  The defense, I don't know if they could have got that stopped when they had to.  And offense, 90 yards when they had to.  So I think that showed some character with this team.
When you have a chance to bury a team like we did, you gotta bury them because they have talented players.  Their backs were against the wall.  They have a tough stretch coming up.  That was a must-win for them.  We knew we'd get their best shot.  And we let them hang around and they did a tremendous job going back.  Showed a lot of heart.  You've gotta give them all the credit in the world.
Q. (Indiscernible) blocked punt in the first half led to a score.  (Indiscernible) come up big for you --
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, that was a game changer.  Guy we can put in any wide receiver position.  He plays special teams.  He does it all, a walk-on from Hereford, I can't say enough good things about him and how hard he works and how much he means to our team.
Q. What did you think of Nic's play tonight?
COACH KINGSBURY: Pretty good.  I didn't do a good job in the second half of keeping him going.  But I felt like when it was there he executed; he threw the ball away when he needed to.  I've got to call better plays in the second half.
Q. I know you had four plays -- penalties on that one drive that led to the touchdown, but only six tonight.  So much better job tonight, wouldn't you think?
COACH KINGSBURY: It was, five in the first half, and second half we talked about playing a cleaner half and they did.  The one that really hurt, we get the third down stop and they get us for taunting, didn't look like much, but they got us for it, and it kept the drive alive and they scored.  We can't have stuff like that.
Q. You've spoken highly for months about Nic.  Has he at the same time with what he's done for the first two games, has he surprised you in any aspect?
COACH KINGSBURY: He hasn't just because I've watched him do it now last fall when he got reps with the 1s, last fall when the lights were on and he came into games, and all spring and summer.  You just watch him play and you watch the great supporting cast he has, and they're in rhythm.  And so it's kind of what we expected.
Q. How would you describe your game plan against these guys, different than the one you guys had 12 months ago?
COACH KINGSBURY: You know, different defensive coordinator, offensively.  Defensively, they did a lot of the same stuff.  They had a good plan.  They got going.  Manny Wilkins, last year and this year played two of the best games I've seen a quarterback play against us.  He was hot, could move around, make plays.  Their receiver was tremendous on the back shoulder fades.
So it was a new year.  Different people involved.  I was just glad that we could find a way to finish this one this year.
Q. What was the status of the Desmond tonight?
COACH KINGSBURY: We'll have to wait and see.  I don't know if he got banged up or what was going on there.
Q. What has Mychealon Thomas been doing to give himself a chance to be successful?
COACH KINGSBURY: He really just lost weight, got a lot stronger in the weight room.  He's gone up in his core lifts some tremendous amount, Coach Whitt has told me.  So more just work ethic, understanding what it takes every day at practice to bring that intensity, bring that effort.  And really proud of where he came from two years ago.
Q. Talk about the run defense.  Obviously you held your opponent to 168 yards, but more importantly you didn't allow Ballage to run all over you rough shod.  What were the difference makers for you?
COACH KINGSBURY: I think our defensive front played hard.  And our linebackers were coming downhill.  And those are good players.  Those running backs can play for anybody.  The quarterback's a great player, receiver is a good player.  I thought -- had a chance to bury them.  When we didn't, they got hot.  And that's just a game of momentum, the way it goes.
Q. (Indiscernible) receivers breaking tackles to make big plays and big scores tonight?
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, they're older, mature guys.  They've been through the ringer, so they expect to make plays.  We try to get it in their hands.  I did a poor job, like I said, the whole second half.  Should have just got more completions and let them do their thing.  Kind of overthinking some stuff, but we'll get back to the drawing board and find a way to get it in their hands, let them do what they do.
Q. Your receiver group was outstanding tonight not only catching the ball but downfield blocking.  Is that a mindset they have?  Does that just speak to their veteran leadership and what they do?
COACH KINGSBURY: No doubt.  I mean, like I said, they take a lot of pride in being physical and attacking the defense on every play, whether they're running a route or it's a run play.  It's something that that group and their position coaches have really taken to a high standard.
Q. Do you think that yourself and Coach Gibbs are feeling more confident doing things, devoting additional defenders up front; is that because of confidence of guys in the back end?
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, I think Octavious, number one for them, I think N'Keal, made some back shoulder catches.  I thought we had great coverage.  He made tremendous catches.  And Jaylon Lane, the same way.  They're competitive, get down in their face and compete.  I think that's definitely helped us on the back end.
Q. Billy Napier made some key adjustments at halftime, a little more success with them in the second half.  What would you have done differently from a defensive perspective in the second half?
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, I think -- I have to watch the film to see it.  Like I said, a lot of those -- it's fourth and four throwing a back shoulder fade, have great coverage.  Can't miss a play.  But it is what it is.  I felt the momentum shifted.  They did a great job, got hot with all their good skill players.  But we found a way.  Had a big-time drive.  Big-time stop to win the game.
Q. Talk about special teams.  That was an area that was a real sore spot for you guys last year in this game.  Seemed like they came to play.
COACH KINGSBURY: No doubt, they dominated us last year in field position.  Our average starting position was the 20.  Theirs was the 32 over 15 drives, 180 yards.  We talked about that for the last two weeks.  And that group came out and played their tails off and really gave us a chance to win tonight.
Q. What was your read on Madison Akamnonu from day one and how did you feel, what did you think he did tonight?
COACH KINGSBURY: Obviously the competition stepped up.  They have a good defensive line.  He's got a ways to go.  But I think he saw some speed on the edge and some good defensive line and he fought hard.  But I think he just got a ways to go.
Q. When do you expect Brooks to be back?
COACH KINGSBURY: Not sure.  We're going to try to get him going over the next couple of weeks if we can get his weight where we want it.  And I'd say within the next two to three weeks.
Q. Was it a surprise he wasn't available today?
COACH KINGSBURY: No, no, we wanted to make sure he has a fair chance to get his weight back up to a number that gives him a chance to compete.
Q. Is this the kind of game that gets a team over the hump where they were ahead and kind of gave it up and then found a way to win; is this one of those games that just -- confidence builders, something you build on?
COACH KINGSBURY: I hope so.  We didn't win these last year.  We were in a bunch of close ones, four and five, never won them.  To find a way, the defense gets that stop, sets up our drive and gets a sack and holds them, when they have the ball to go down and win it.  That can build some character.
Q. What was your message to Desmond after the fumble at the goal line?
COACH KINGSBURY: Just we're going to need him again.  He was just trying to do too much.  You can't reach out down there.  It's first down.  He's a big guy, keep running your feet.  And he'll learn from it.
Q. Is Vaughnte Dorsey 100 percent?
COACH KINGSBURY: We'll have to check on it.  I think he had some sort of ankle looked like but I saw him after the game.  So we'll see.  I don't know the official word on it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT