TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 17, 2016
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas Tech - 59, Louisiana Tech - 45
Q. Noticeably different/better seven days removed from Arizona State.
COACH KINGSBURY: I thought offensively we handled the situation better.  It was going back and forth and we never blinked.  We just said, all right, we'll keep going.  Where I thought last week, we had a couple moments where we let down and weren't up to the challenge of, hey, you're in one of those games, you'd better keep scoring.  So that was encouraging.
Q. Offensively, is tonight what you'd been working for, translating from the practice field to the game field?
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, everybody executed at a much higher level, route depth, blocking, effort, being where you should be.
Pat for the most part was pretty clean in his reads.  There were a couple he should have made without getting outside but yeah, that's what we're looking for as far as high-level execution.  Way too many penalties I thought, but we overcame that.  So it was improvement offensively.
Q. You had more running plays tonight than you did passing plays, which doesn't happen very often here at Texas Tech?
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, that was their defense.  If ear going to give us a run, we're going to take the run.  The previous two games, they wanted us to throw it, and we threw it.  We're going to do whatever the defense allows us to do.
And I thought Pat was really good at the line of scrimmage.  If you watched him, he was checking into a bunch of runs when we had the right look.
Q. Does that give the defense a little more time to rest?
COACH KINGSBURY: Didn't seem to help tonight, you know.  So I know that's a theory out there, but didn't seem to help tonight.
Q. So the fact that they were giving you the run --
COACH KINGSBURY: No, he played well.  He played well.  He hit it.  He hit it.  I'm just talking about the number of run plays.  If they are in a two-shell the whole night, we've to be able to run the ball some, and I thought Pat did a good job of getting us into some of those looks.
Q. How is Demarcus similar to -- or is Demarcus similar to DeAndre?
COACH KINGSBURY: DeAndre, I think he was older, so he had developed as a more complete back as far as catching the ball, backfield, running routes, things of that nature.  I think Demarcus has that potential.  He's a great runner.  He sees it.  He's a one-cut type guy and he'll hit the hole.
Q. Inaudible -- tonight, was that sort of just an innovation to help beef up the running game?
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, he's done a good job in camp and kind of rewarding him on some of those bigger packages.  We wanted to get him in there and let him do his thing.
Q. What is Steele's status, do you know?
COACH KINGSBURY: Steele, they said that I guess some sort of ankle issue, so we'll know tomorrow.
Q. How do you feel with the offensive line?
COACH KINGSBURY: I thought they held up okay, and whenever you have to move -- Madison had to go to left tackle, Murphy had to slide out, so I was proud of their effort.  Paul Stawarz stepped up and really played well inside.
So that was encouraging, to have to make that move and get guys in positions they are not used to playing.  You know, we didn't punt, so they obviously did their job.
Q. What did you think about the defense tonight?
COACH KINGSBURY: Not good enough obviously.  I thought -- I had a really bad play call there, it was 35-10.  I tried to throw it, which was dumb, on first down and three.  We lose yards, we missed the field goal and they come down right before the half and score and we didn't recover.  It was the same type of adversity last week when we recovered the fumble and got it called back and didn't recover from that.
So defensively, when stuff goes wrong, we got to be able to stand up and we have not proven that yet.
Q. What do you think of Jonathan Giles' play and development?
COACH KINGSBURY: He's getting better.  He's getting better.  I was most proud of his blocking.  Dylan Cantrell's touchdown there on the screen, he took two guys.  And that was an area we asked him to improve upon.  He's good with the ball in his hands.  He's a dynamic receiver but we needed him to be more physical and he's really taken that to heart, and that was good to see.
Q. Derrick Willies tonight caught three balls and then two recovers on onside kicks; so he showed his worth tonight, didn't he.
COACH KINGSBURY: He's very trustworthy.  He's where he should be.  He runs the routes.  He plays physical.  He's tough.  He works his tail off in practice.  He studies hard.  So we want consistent guys on the field and I felt like last week, we weren't getting that play and this week we had guys out there that were doing the right thing every snap.
Q. Inaudible.
COACH KINGSBURY: Derrick just has earned those reps and he stepped up and made the plays.
Q. D.J., did he hurt his neck?
COACH KINGSBURY: It was some sort of shoulder contusion.  We'll see, once again.  That's all I heard, so I'll find out more tomorrow.
Q. Inaudible.
COACH KINGSBURY: Same deal.  Some sort of arm injury, and they are going to have to look at him and we'll know tomorrow.
Q. What's Tevin Madison's status?
COACH KINGSBURY: Tevin is no longer on our team --
Q. So for good --
COACH KINGSBURY: Yes.
Q. When did that happen?
COACH KINGSBURY: Recently.
Q. Do you feel like the team responded overall?
COACH KINGSBURY: I think at times.  Like I said, the thing that was disappointing to me was the bad play call when we were up 35-10.  That's not putting them away there, and letting them back in the game.  They wanted to run the ball and run the clock out and we let them pop a run and they go down and score and make it 35-17, so that was disappointing.
But we found a way to win the game.  That's a good team.  They play, if you look at their record, playing power five teams, they play them tough.  Played Arkansas tough on the road.  Had a chance to win that game.  It's a good football team.  Coach Holtz does a great job offensively, and you've got to give them credit.
Q. The double reverse, how long have you been working on that?
COACH KINGSBURY: I stole that from Western Kentucky.  It was a great play they ran for a touchdown.  So we'd repped it a ton.  We'd had it but we weren't getting the right looks for it, and it just worked out today.
Q. This is a week where after a disappointing loss like last week, you bounced back -- what is your read on how they handled this week and showed up tonight in that regard?
COACH KINGSBURY: I thought they showed up with a good look in their eye.  They practiced well all week.  They practiced, you know, to win the game.  There's no pouting.  There's no hangover.  Like I said, we're up 35-10, that's what you want.  Could have put them away.  That's what we've got to work on is that part of it.
Q. In practice --
COACH KINGSBURY: It's back-to-back weeks, and we had more than them and that's not good.  No turnover, didn't create any turnovers.  We protected it well but we had way too many times where we had big plays called back because of them.
Q. You sought out Taylor after the game.  What did you say to him and what did he say about his play?
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, I just -- I told him I played with Loker (ph), he's my quarterback, and I see a lot of the same things in him.  He's a hard guy to cover.  He's quick.  He's tough.  You watch him block.  I just, you know, you see a player like that, you've got to let him know you appreciate his effort and what he's about.
Q. The big touchdown pass, the big plays that they had the second half --
COACH KINGSBURY: I mean, they are running wide open, so we got to get that fixed.  We had some young guys come in, obviously with D.J. go out and Keenan go out, and I don't know, they didn't know what they were doing.  I'll have to watch the film, but you can't have guys, particularly their best players, running that wide open.
Q. Using Kevin, the pass rush package, what do you think of his potential?
COACH KINGSBURY: I think he's been phenomenal on special teams, as he understands our defense, what we're trying to accomplish.  He's great in space.  He's a great football player.  He has a nose for football.  He just has to understand schematically what we are trying to accomplish each play.
Q. Made an impact on the defense tonight?
COACH KINGSBURY: I think he did.  I saw him make some good plays, particularly early when we built that lead, he was playing at a high level.  We'll get him this next week fully healthy and get him back into shape and hopefully continue to improve.
Q. Following up on the Madison situation, was he dismissed?  He didn't leave voluntarily?
COACH KINGSBURY: I'm not going to comment on any of that.  We'll just leave it that he's no longer on the team.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT