TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2016
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When you were talking the other night about little school yard, loose plays, is that from a lack of discipline and if it is, how do you rectify that?  
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, after watching the film, I just -- we weren't very mechanical.  We weren't very fundamentally sound.  I think what I was seeing at practice didn't necessarily carry over to the field.  Maybe it's just nerves and first-game type jitters.  But it wasn't us.  And so we need to get that fixed this week and next Saturday play a much smoother, much more poised game.   
 Q.  Going off that a little bit, I know you talked all off-season about Patrick making those easy plays, does that go into that street ball, and also, off of that, as well, did you feel like you took too many hits at times?  
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, but they weren't really his fault, so you don't want to get him hit ever.  But our offensive line has to play better.  Some of those plays, he was forced to get out of the pocket sooner, after watching the tape.  But he continued to make plays.  He's playing at a high level.  We have to get some of those guys in front of him to do their job a little bit better.   
 Q.  Any concern going into a game against a team that's notorious for blitzing all the time?  
COACH KINGSBURY: Not really, just because I know what he can do.  We'll get better up front.  I know that's coming, and I know what Pat can do versus a blitz or a rush or whatever.   
So it's good to have a quarterback that can make plays and extend plays.  I watched him in the Bowl game and we didn't block anybody the entire game, and still ran around and did his thing.  Hopefully we're better than that, but we'll find out.   
 Q.  How much different is this team than the team you played in the Holiday Bowl?  Still some players around?  
COACH KINGSBURY: I'm trying to think, we tried to go back and see.  I know Reggie Davis had a touchdown in that Holiday Bowl but not many.  Not many.  It's basically an entirely new team.  So that won't have much of an impact, I don't think.   
 Q.  Is there anything you're going to take from that game, the Holiday Bowl?  
COACH KINGSBURY: No, that was a long time ago.  Completely different teams.  And so I don't think -- I think Coach Graham's evolved a lot on both sides of the ball and we have, too.   
 Q.  Have you looked at any film of them and can you talk about their offense and defense?  
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, I think offensively, they have a dual-threat quarterback, very good athlete, they have a great running back.  Coach Lindsey, the offensive coordinator, I was a big fan of what he did at Southern Miss and he's doing a good job there.  They will be tough to stop.   
Defensively some really good pass rushers and good secondary.  The one corner had a bunch of interceptions last year.  It will be a step up in competition that's for sure and we'll have to play well.   
 Q.  What's your fondest memory from that 2014 Holiday Bowl, getting your first Bowl victory and capping off an 8-5 season?  
COACH KINGSBURY: I really don't remember it that well.  I'm kind of day-to-day.  So I just remember winning the game, that was it.   
 Q.  Was there emotion that you felt at all, during that moment, your first season as a head coach, ending things the way that you did?  
COACH KINGSBURY: I don't think so.  I mean, I remember being happy for the seniors just because we were knew to them, and they really bought in and played hard for us.   
 Q.  What is (inaudible) and Gary Moore's status?  Are they expected to practice?  
COACH KINGSBURY: They are.  They will practice today.  Very minor-type injuries.   
 Q.  Seems like at times on Saturday, the defensive line really set the tone for the defense.  What do you think about their challenge going up against a duel-threat quarterback and being able to keep him contained?  
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, they will have to be very responsible in their assignments and their techniques, and like you said, we can't let them get outside and make plays, and they will run them a bunch.  It will be a different game for them than it was last week when you had more of a pocket passer.   
 Q.  Were you happy with the breakdown of run and pass the last game, and is that something that you'll maintain going into this week?  
COACH KINGSBURY: I'd like to run it a little bit more if we could.  But if they are going to take away the run in numbers, then we are going to throw it every play.  And when you have got a guy like Pat and you put the ball in his hands that many times, good things are going to happen.   
 Q.  After looking at film, how do you feel like your receivers played?  
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, I think they played okay.  Not great on depths of route.  Not real sharp on some of those things.  I thought a couple of the inside guys weren't very physical blocking.  So we're going to get that fixed this week.   
 Q.  Is that a group that after Saturday's game that you were disappointed in, but maybe had a chance to look back on the film and maybe change your mind about?  
COACH KINGSBURY: No, I feel like I had a pretty good feel for what occurred.  The groups I were disappointed in were offensively -- I thought the defensive second group came in and played okay but offensively, that second unit didn't play very well.   
 Q.  What did you see out of the two new guys in the lineup, Kolin and Ondre.  
COACH KINGSBURY: Physicality.  I thought early they really were a force in there, jamming up the middle on some of those runs and winning their one-on-one battles and that was good.  They are two big, physical tough guys.  They play with a chip on their shoulder.  They have a lot of football built up after sitting out a year, and I think there's a lot of room for growth, which is encouraging.   
 Q.  Can you tell there's an energy about those two, having sat out last year, for an entire season, watching the guys play from the sideline last year?  
COACH KINGSBURY: There's no doubt.  That's not easy when you're having to run scout team and you do that and you come from places where you were a player and on the team and now you're on the scout team.   
So definitely saw them eager and I think they made the most of it.  I think as they get in game shape and as they get more snaps under their belt, they are just going to get better and better.   
 Q.  Do you feel like the team was more physical overall in the opener?  
COACH KINGSBURY: I thought defensively.  I didn't think offensively.  I didn't think offensively at all.  We have some good playmakers that can make things happen in space; we have Pat.  So we covered up a lot of things by a lot of things by, like I said, playing some street ball.  But we have to get a lot better and tighten things up and be a lot more physical this week.   
 Q.  What did you think of your cornerback?  
COACH KINGSBURY: Not bad.  Really, D.J., really it's his first full game of starting and playing corner and he was physical and stuck his nose in there and made some plays on the football and then Thierry came up with a big-time interception.  They will continue to get better and we'll see how it goes.  It will be a big step up this week.   
 Q.  Did you feel like when they got ahead is maybe when they stopped being as physical?  
COACH KINGSBURY: No, it's when we took out the ones, I'd say.  That hurt.  And then even the ones, a lot of the things that we do in practice, we weren't doing it.  I don't know if we were uninterested or just didn't feel like we needed to bring the physicality that we need to every week.  But it wasn't very good when it comes to that.   
 Q.  Could that be down to the competition?  
COACH KINGSBURY: I don't know.  I don't know if it was just being scared or maybe we're not that physical.  We'll find out.  But we did not bring it Saturday offensively.   
 Q.  Are you talking offensive line, blocking from the receivers?  What exactly?  
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, both.  Both.  Offensive line was soft and then the receiver -- the inside receivers came at some blocks well.  Dylan Cantrell, some of the outside guys did some thing, but a couple of those young inside guys, they caught some passes, scored some touchdowns, but they weren't very good blocking.   
 Q.  Ideally, the number is zero for zero, but were you pleased with seven penalties for 150 yards against a team that's traditionally had some issues with that?  
COACH KINGSBURY: Offensively I think we had six of them, so that wasn't good.  It wasn't really good focus.  The number of yards I guess was encouraging.  But when you have six offensively, it's just lack of focus, a bunch of pre-snap penalties and some things we have to clean up.  I wasn't happy with that part of it but defensively, yes.   
 Q.  What's Kisean Allen's status?  
COACH KINGSBURY: He will be playing.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
COACH KINGSBURY: Just a shoulder.  Banged up his shoulder.   
 Q.  Did you watch the game last night?  
COACH KINGSBURY: I did not.  I was watching Narcos Season 2.  I didn't get to see it Friday, so I was on it hard yesterday (Laughter).   
 Q.  What did you think of Corey Dauphine's run?  Obviously people are excited about him.  
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, when he touches it, it's dynamic.   There's a lot of other things we have to get him better at.  That's why we had to put him in, take him out a little bit, talk him through some things.  But when he has the ball in his hands, he's dynamic, physical, with run the football well.  There's just a lot of other things that go into playing that position.  So we're working through that.  He's young, works, hard, does everything we say.  We've just got to get him more comfortable in our system.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
COACH KINGSBURY: He did well.  I think we've got a couple of things that just were raggedy.  We snapped the ball one time we shouldn't have made it.  He made a great throw to Ian and went through his hands and got an interception.  But he made some good checks, and had some adverse conditions with the way that line was blocking.  I thought he handled himself well, and he had a good demeanor on the sideline so that was good to see.   
 Q.  Was there anything that surprised you the most, looking back at the film?  
COACH KINGSBURY: I just think watching the film really showed me just how loose we were in a lot of areas.  From what I've seen in practice, and I'm speaking for the offense right now but what I've seen in practice is very tight, doing things right, doing the little things, and we got away from that in the game.  So we've got to tie that back in and play better Saturday.   
 Q.  How ready are you to play a team like Arizona State?  
COACH KINGSBURY: We're ready.  I think it's been good competition against each other all camp.  I had made mention of that during camp and so I think that has prepped us to go against a solid Division I team.   
 Q.  What have you seen from their defensive line?  Seems like they have some pretty good pieces.  
COACH KINGSBURY: They do. They have guys that can be disruptive, get upfield.  Solid in the run game.  So it will be a good challenge.  From what I saw this past week, we're going to have to improve a lot up front.   
 Q.  When you look at your own team and Arizona State, do you see some similarities in both teams, at least the national perception, is that there are middle-of-the-road conference teams that are looking to break their way into that top half where they are competing for conference championships every year.  Do you see a similarity in those?  
COACH KINGSBURY: I don't but there may be.  I don't really look into that type stuff, so I don't know.   
 Q.  Seems like the lack of offense, whether it be Dana or Sonny last year against Cal or Arizona State, you guys seemed to like playing that type of defense.  Is there a reason why you've guys had success offensively?  
COACH KINGSBURY: I don't know.  I mean, when I was at University of Houston, we played Tulsa when he was there and had some success and he had some success.  I think it's all year-to-year and who you got and who he's got.   
 Q.  Special teams had to make you feel pretty good, Cameron Batson 33-yard punt return.  Can you tell us if your expectations to go forward is good?  
COACH KINGSBURY: I hope so.  Coach Robinson I think brings a lot of experience, a calmness to that group that was good.  Cam's returning with a lot more confidence and I thought we covered kicks well.   
Punting, we've got to get better at punting.  We didn't put the ball like we needed to.  He hit it in the wrong spot a couple times and then Clayton made his kick, so that was encouraging.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT