TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 29, 2016
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Coach, what do you think you accomplished the most in the fall camp?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: That's a pretty broad question.  I felt like we developed a really good chemistry, offensively and defensively.  We practiced well together.  After the first couple of days, there weren't a lot of fights, weren't a lot of guys on the ground.  Guys were learning how to practice, taking care of each other.  Felt like we really came together as a team, so that was encouraging.   
 Q.  Can you give us some insight on how Gibbs feels about the defense?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I'm not sure.  As you know, he keeps everything pretty close to the vest.  I know how I feel about it, but he likes to tend to downplay things.  But I think it will be a group that understands his schemes better.  I think it will be a group that can play hard.  I think we'll be more physical up front due to some of the size that we've picked up.   
So that's exciting.  We'll find out what we've got Saturday.  But I do think we all feel like it will be an improved group.   
 Q.  Where have you seen the most improvement on that group on defense?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I think the numbers on the defensive line, last year we asked those guys to play 70, 80 snaps a game, which wasn't fair to them and wasn't great for our defense.  Now we'll be able to roll some numbers through there and keep guys fresh, and hopefully that will help them be more effective.   
 Q.  What's it say about Luke Stice?  He just gets here and he's already team captain?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Like I said all along, the intensity he's brought, the leadership, max effort every single rep with everything he does.  So it didn't surprise me.  Those guys have fallen in love with the kid and what he's about, what he stands for, how he works.  So just a testament to how he was raised and the type of character he has.   
 Q.  Is that a team vote to choose the captain?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yes, it's a team vote.   
 Q.  What do you remember most about the buzz in the air around a season opener, going out there and playing the first game of the season?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Just a lot of excitement.  Every year you start over, everybody starts over 0-0, so there's great expectations, and this year's no different.  I think our team really feels like they've come together and have grown together and have a chance to have a pretty good football team.   
 Q.  I know Justis missed some time about a week ago.  Is he 100% good to go?  I know you have him listed first on the depth chart, but see any bumps or bruises with him?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: No, he's good.  It was just precautionary.  We just wanted to get him into game week.  So he'll be fresh and healthy and really fast and explosive, and that's what we want to see from him on Saturday.   
 Q.  Do you feel the offensive line at this point is still a work in progress?  I know a couple weeks ago Terence was a left tackle, looks like maybe Baylen moved back there, and Paul was at center, and it looks like Tony might have made up some ground.  Where does that stand at this point?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, it's a solid group.  I think it shows we have a couple bodies that we can slide in there and not skip a beat.  So excited about that group.  Bigger, stronger, more athletic than we've been, and just have to get some experience.   
 Q.  Can you speak about SFA's defense (indiscernible)?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, both guys were very productive last year for them.  And they had a good defense last year.  I think, personnel-wise, they're one of the better defenses on that level and made a bunch of plays, have a bunch of confidence.  I think they have eight starters back.  So it will be a good test for all of us to get out there and see where we're at as an offense.   
 Q.  Your depth chart shows (indiscernible) starting left tackle, Jack Reichel starting left guard.  In terms of right tackle, is that all accurate?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: We'll have to check it out Saturday and see how it rolls out there.  But as of today, that's how it's listed.   
 Q.  What do you think about bringing Manny Ramirez on to the staff can help your team with?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Everything, really.  I think we have him in that player development role.  His story, the way he's grown as a man since I first met him as a freshman and what he's accomplished in his life.  He's a big-time Christian and treats people the right way.   
I can't imagine a better role model for our players to be around and be able to connect with on a daily basis than Manny Ramirez.  And that was first and foremost our thought.  Obviously he has great football knowledge, but, to begin with, that's going to be the capacity he'll be in.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Not too long.  I knew he was trying to figure out what he wanted to do next, and he wants to coach.  We felt like this was a great way for him to get his foot in the door and help us and help him.  Coach Jones had the role last year and obviously progressed into a position coach.  So I think Manny is excited about this opportunity.  Just to.   
 Q.  Just to clarify, that role doesn't allow any on-field coaching?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Right, right, no on-field coaching.   
 Q.  With regard to your receiver group, all of them have an "or" by them.  Is it based on how well they play in practice this week?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: It is.  We've taken the approach it's day-to-day at that position.  We feel like we have such good depth that if you want to come out and show up late or not bring it one day, you'll probably be the backup the next.   
And that's what we've been striving for at every position.  We feel like we established that at wideout.  So it's literally day to day, who practices the best will go out there and be the starter.   
 Q.  In a game like this, you mentioned the depth there.  Would you like to get players more work?  Ideally, how many carries does like a Justin Stockton get before you try to get the younger guys?  You mentioned on the conference call kind of wishing you might have gotten Justin more reps last year?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, just whatever it takes for us to win the game, really.  I don't set a number.  I just know that he's a dynamic talent.  I think you see the type of explosive plays he's had so far since he's been here.  But the touches have been less than what they should have, because he had a great player in front of him.  But he's going to get a bunch of touches and we'll get him involved as much as he can handle it now.   
 Q.  Can you talk about Devin Lauderdale and where he's come from last December around the bowl time to right now?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: It's night and day.  The young man I've seen this summer through training camp is a different young man than what we saw previously.  I think he got a taste of the real world and he knew what he had lost and didn't ever want to feel that again.   
So he's been focused.  He's been locked down.  He's been early to everything.  He's been working harder than he's ever worked.  So he's had his best camp by far.  It's been fun to see.  It's been good for those young wide receivers to see the way he's worked, the way he approaches every practice, and I'm very proud of him.   
 Q.  How comfortable are you with all of the -- I know this is no surprise, obviously, but all the true freshmen that you're going to be playing at linebacker?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, we're excited.  I think you look at their size, their athleticism -- I mean, there's no substitute for experience, but they're big enough, strong enough and physical enough to play, now it's just about getting them reps and ready to go.   
But I'm just excited to watch them play.  I've seen them in practice.  They've done a good job there.  So now when the lights come on, we'll see how they react.  But it's been good so far.   
 Q.  Trying to look at the progress over the spring and summer, the penalties and cutting those down, first of all, is there any sense they'll be better at that this year?  And what are you looking for in practice to try to measure that?  I know it's tough not in a game situation all the time.  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, I think it's more overall perspective from discipline as a team, doing everything right on and off the field.  But if that's an indication, this is a good group.  I thought we made huge strides last year in those areas.  If we can make that same step, it will really help our chances.   
 Q.  Having night games last year was well-documented.  (Indiscernible) is that something you guys pay attention to too much or not really?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: No, I think our fan base likes a night game, so it's great for them.  It gives them time to enjoy the entire day.  When you get out there, there's something special about being in that stadium at night.  So I know our players are excited.  I'm excited.  And it should make for some fun home games.   
 Q.  Did you cross paths with Gary Crowton or know him very well?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I do not.  I remember him as a play caller, but I don't have any association with him.   
 Q.  What do you expect from his offense?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: He'll be very multiple.  Does great stuff at every level he's been at offensively.  So they'll have some great things schematically that we haven't seen, I'm sure, after having all summer to be prepared for it.  So we'll have to be great in our responsibilities on defense.   
 Q.  This has kind of been labeled the greatest college football weekend with all the match-ups non-conference.  You have a big one coming up in a couple of weeks, but how do you feel the playoff has changed, the philosophy of scheduling?  Do you feel like it benefits college football overall?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I do.  I think everybody's going to at least play one of those big-time match-ups every year now.  It's great for the fans, great for the sport.  It wasn't always like that in the past.  Interests probably didn't pick up until later on, and now it's starting from week one on that you have these big-time match-ups, so I think it's great for the game.   
 Q.  Another question about your young linebackers.  Obviously, Johnathan Picone was here in the spring, and you spoke well of him.  What did Jordan do to move in front of him?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, I think he's just -- John played more of an end-type position there in high school, so still learning the position of linebacker.  Jordan's been a linebacker his entire life.  So I think just some of the instinctive things that he does naturally, he was able to pick up on quickly and slide in there.   
 Q.  Coach, do you like playing a team that's not in the Power Five to kind of get things going and get an assessment of your team and get the rust knocked off and get yourself out to a potentially good start?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I think you just play whoever they put in front of you, you know?  I like the way our schedule sets up.  I think Stephen F. Austin is a talented team with a bunch of returners, so it's a good test early at home to see where we're at.   
 Q.  After playing Arkansas the last couple years in non-conference and Arizona State coming up quickly, does that change anything urgency-wise when you have a Power Five team on the schedule early in the year?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I don't think so.  I think you look across the country, playing the 1-AA teams there, and quality opponents.  In the last couple years, they scored quality points on us.  So we approach Game 1, throw everything into that, then we worry about the next game after that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT