TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 23, 2018
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just compare and contrast Bowman and Purdy, similarities and differences, just what you've seen.  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I've only got a couple games on Purdy, what I've seen.  He's a very dynamic player, can run, can throw, very poised, has really given them a spark.  The poise he plays with and the way he protects the football.  He's a big time talent, big time player, couldn't be more impressed with what I've seen from him so far.   
 Q.  How much of a test is this going to be for Alan on Saturday, going up in a harsh environment like that to statistically one of the better defenses in the Big 12, and seeing what that defense did to Will Grier just a few weeks ago as well?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, they're all going to be tough from here on out.  There's no question.  We've had our struggles at Iowa State.  Against Iowa State, they've done a tremendous job against us -- offensively, defensively, special teams.  So not just Bowman, but our entire staff, entire program is going to have to play a lot better.   
 Q.  What about that Iowa State team off the film that really sticks out to you?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I think they're really good personnel-wise.  I think that gets lost.  They've done a tremendous job recruiting there, tremendous job developing talent.  They have great players all across the board that can play for anybody, and you throw in the great coaching job they do as a staff, and it's just a tough team to beat.   
 Q.  Montgomery had a huge game last week.  What makes him such an explosive runner?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I've said it since his freshman year, I think he's one of the best backs in the country.  Very, very sturdy runner.  The first guy never brings him down.  You watch against West Virginia, a bunch are slipping on that field.  He's the one guy that doesn't slip the entire game.  Sharp with his cuts.  Can catch it, run it, great in pass pro.  He's a dynamic, complete back, and he probably doesn't get as much credit as he deserves.   
 Q.  Does it often feel the offense goes the way Montgomery goes throughout the game?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: He's a big part of it, no question, but they have wideouts that 6'6".  They can go up on anybody and make plays.  The quarterback is playing at a tremendous level.  O-line is playing at a high level.  They're well coached.   
Like I said, I think it gets lost they have really good personnel.  I think that's a credit to that staff developing those players and recruiting those guys.   
 Q.  Do you think this team is better built to slow down someone like Montgomery compared to last year with how you guys have done against Kansas and you did against Justice Hill earlier this year, just the different good running backs you've seen?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: It remains to be seen.  He's a really, really good player, and we've had our struggles against this team.  Like I said, we all have to step up as a program and play a lot better this week.   
 Q.  You look at Hakeem Butler at 6'6", Matthew Eaton at 6'4".  Are they similar to T.J. and Antoine?  How might they be different?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I think the similarity is that they take shots with those guys and give them a chance to make plays on the football consistently.  Those guys always either come down with the ball or get the pass interference call against them, it appears.  They're a tough wideout group because they have other guys in the slot that can make plays and then throw it up to those guys.  They're a complete offense.  Those receivers are really impressive to watch.   
 Q.  You talked about the defense on Sunday trending upwards.  Specifically in the secondary, you also talked about not really giving up big plays.  What have you all been working on in practice to really eliminate those?  Because you've been doing a good job of that.  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: We had a bunch of them early on in the season.  That has been the emphasis since the first few weeks.  We're giving up huge chunk plays, in the run game and pass, and we just understand you can't do that in this league.  You've got to make them snap it again.  You've got to try to create turnovers and can't give them easy ones.  That's been an emphasis on that side of the football.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, he hurt his foot, so we're evaluating him, and we'll see where he's at.  Still kind of in that remains to be seen category whether he's going to play or not.   
 Q.  So if he were not able to play, would you bring back like a Tyler Carr or go with that alignment you had the other day where Trey looked like playing that position some?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Probably a combination of the running backs we've been using, whether it's Tre or DeMarcus or Ward, and find it that way.   
 Q.  I know it's been talked about.  I don't think we've actually asked you about it, but you are actually trying to redshirt Tyler Carr and Brayden Stringer and Yontz and all those guys?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: That's the plan, in case something happens, and obviously you have those four games that you can use.   
 Q.  Long question here, so bear with me.  Regarding Da'Leon Ward, is he still not 100 percent physically?  Is he 100 percent but has just fallen behind other guys with the time he has missed?  Or are other guys just outplaying him?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: We've been trying to get him full speed again since that injury.  It's kind of a nagging injury, getting him caught up to speed with our offense, getting him full speed in practice and practicing at a high level.  So we're still working through that with him, and we feel good about the other guys playing.   
 Q.  So it sounds like you're saying he's kind of not the same guy he was at the beginning of the year physically?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, I think for a while he's been trying to get back to 100 percent, kind of a nagging little injury, and we've got to get him back 100 percent before we feel confident to get him back out there.   
 Q.  Coach, this team can obviously -- you already mentioned that they can throw the ball, they can run it.  Where do they put the most stress on the defense?  Is it more of a play action type offense?  Which one do they try to set up from what you've seen?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I think, when they're running the ball well early with Montgomery and then running the QB now -- he's pulling it and doing different things -- and then the play action and taking the shots, if you walk down on them, they do a tremendous job coaching the scheme.  There's a lot of check with me's from the sidelines, and they tend to get in the perfect play every time they do that.   
Just been really impressed with the job Coach Campbell has done since he's been there, and the defensive coordinator is one of the best in the game, really revolutionized the defense there, and they're playing at a high level too.  You've got to give that staff a lot of credit.   
 Q.  What do you think has been the biggest contributor to the red zone success this year?  Is it more lengthy receivers?  Is it that Clayton is back and fully healthy?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, I think Clayton is kicking it at a high level.  We were less than 50 percent on field goals last year, and that will hurt your red zone.  Those big guys making plays too towards the goal line are helping, but I think the biggest key is Clayton and our confidence in him.   
 Q.  Is T.J. fully healthy?  Is he still dealing with some stuff?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: We hope so.  We'll see.  He's still working through some things.   
 Q.  You said in the past that you once dressed as Justin Bieber for Halloween.  Is that something you might do again this year?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I'm not going to do that ever again.  One time deal, at a low point in my life.   
 Q.  Alan's injury having been negative (no microphone).  Is he doing fine?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I just felt like he was a little rusty early.  His timing, he wasn't really stepping into his throws, a little antsy back there in the pocket.  Hopefully, I felt like, as the game went on, he was more solid and felt more comfortable back there.  So hopefully knock the rust off, and moving forward, he can start faster and play at a high level.   
 Q.  Do you think he'll be okay against the Iowa State quarterback?  You think he'll do fine?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I hope so.  That kid they have is playing at an extremely high level.  Doesn't look like a true freshman.  He plays with a lot of swagger and confidence.  So we're going to have to play our best.   
 Q.  Is there any freshmen who are redshirting that are looking good behind the scenes, players that we haven't seen yet that you think we'll start to know next year?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I think Xavier Benson is one.  He's got a real chance, very athletic.  He's kind of that rush position for us, practices really hard.  He's doing a great job with the scout team.  And Mark Brown, who transferred from San Diego State, has really come on as that D-end position.  We go against them on scout team every day, and they're going to be really good players if they keep their head on straight and work really hard at it.   
 Q.  Speaking of that position, that reminded me, what's Tony Jones' status right now?  
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Trying to get him healthy as well.  We feel like he'll be available and hopefully ready to go for Saturday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT