TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2015
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TCU - 55
  Texas Tech - 52
Q. Would you just talk about the effort of your team today, how much they gave?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, they played hard.  They played hard.  Didn't execute as well as we did last week I didn't think.  But you've got to give TCU a lot of credit.  A lot of that is them and the way they played and their schemes, and they've got a good team, obviously.
Q. Talk about stopping Josh Thompson today.  What kind of problems did he present?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, he's a great player.  He killed us last year, gave us problems this year.  Got to give him a lot of credit.  He'll be playing on Sundays.
Q. Was the opportunity for DeAndre Washington something you thought was there coming into the game or developed as the game went on?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: A little of both.  You know, I thought our O-line matched up well.  They obviously have some starters out up front, and they did a good job of getting push, and he ran great.  Best game I've seen him play.
Q. How hampered was Mahomes by injury?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, he wasn't his normal self.  I think you could see that.  But he hung in there, had a gutsy performance, and hopefully he can get back to 100 percent where he can do all those things that he's really good at doing.
Q. Is it just a leg injury?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, I'm not sure exactly the extent of it, but some lower extremity.
Q. Do you have any idea what kind of therapy or remedy you're going to need psychologically for these guys to get them back together?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: No, I mean, you get 12 opportunities a year guaranteed, so you'd better get ready for each one, and that team we're playing next week, I mean, as good as anybody in the country.  They'll get back up and try and get better.  Like I said, I thought effort was great.  Can't fault their effort.  We just didn't execute the way we have been the previous weeks, and got to give a lot of credit to TCU because they were a cause of a lot of that.
Q. How often do you all practice the (inaudible)?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: You know, once a week, something like that.
Q. Seems like you guys continue to be decent in situations.  How do you impact situational football?  Is it just repetition?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I think so, and maturity.  I think guys growing up, getting a little bit older.  We weren't very good at it last year.  We've gotten better this year, and have to continue to get better.
Q. Can you just talk about Pat's performance today, what he did, what he went through?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, just gutsy.  He wasn't feeling great.  He wasn't moving around like he normally does.  He wasn't stepping into throws like he normally does, but he hung in there, made some big throws, gave us a chance to win.  Last drive, we had the ball to go seal it, we didn't get it done, and you've got to give their defense credit for stepping up that last drive.  They're a good team.  They're a veteran team that's won on the road, and we've got to learn how to do that.  We've got to learn how to close out those games against a quality opponent like that.
Q. When you were (inaudible) the defense after, it looks like he got himself on 4th down.
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, they did everything they could.  They've got great players, 9.  Probably the only cat in America that could get his hand on that, and 22 is a tremendous running back, does a great job catching the ball out of the backfield.  Big-time play, made a big-time play, and our guys did everything they could.
Q. I know this may seem crazy to ask, but did you ever consider putting in Webb?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, I thought if the protection hadn't been good maybe, but I thought we were protecting him fairly well.  He took a few shots, but no, never really got to that.
Q. What was the miscommunication of the safety?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: You know, they were giving some line calls defensively, and I guess we thought it was our quarterback saying that our cadence, so he snapped it.
Q. The loss is always disappointing, but is this an encouraging game?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: No, no.  We felt like we have a good team, and we didn't execute like we should have.  But that's a good football team they have, and they got it done.
Q. When you have four minutes and 44 seconds left, you have the ball and the lead, what was your thought process at that point?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, go win it.  I mean, we ran it twice and threw it on 3rd down just like we'd been doing the whole second half, running the ball very well, and they stood up and made a play.
Q. What was the inside (inaudible)?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I'm not sure.  Same deal.  One injured leg is what I was told, so I'm not sure how severe it is.
Q. What about Morales?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Tony Morales?  I'm not sure.
Q. (Inaudible.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I would hope so.  They've come a long way in that regard.  Like I said, it's an unbelievable atmosphere next week you get to play in, Cowboys Stadium against a top-five team.  If you can't get up for that, you're in the wrong sport.
Q. (Inaudible.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I don't think so.  I mean, I think we still have a long way to go.  Like I said, I think that game was ours to win at times, and we didn't get it done, coaches and players, and we've got to get better.  But the crowd was fantastic.  Best crowd I've seen in a long, long time around here.
Q. Was this a big missed opportunity?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, anytime you lose a game it's a missed opportunity.  You only get 12 of them, so you've got to make them count.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT