TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 13, 2014
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   After watching film, what's the overall grade for the offensive performance?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   I don't give grades in a game.   It wasn't good enough. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   Yeah, they played well.   They did what they had to do.   I don't have any other answer to that.   They made plays.   We had, I think eight guys that played over a hundred snaps on defense.   Just didn't make the plays when we needed to and they did. 
Offensively, when we had the ball, had the chance to put them away a few times and just didn't get it done.   So you got to give them credit. 

Q.   What is the status of Davis's foot?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   He's good.   He should be fine. 

Q.   How would you assess his performance in that game?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   Not bad.   Could have played better, I would say.   Had some throws that early, I thought that we could have distanced ourselves and you got to be able to make them. 

Q.   Talk about the mood.   I mean it's a horrible way to lose a game, last second field goal.   Is it going to be tough to get them back up?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   I don't think so.   It's a pretty resilient group.   We got to play a great homecoming game against Kansas, that's playing pretty well.   They better be motivated and from what I can tell, they are. 

Q.   Did you modify Davis's ability to check at the line at all or settle. 
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   No. 

Q.   With similar stats through this point in his career and being a student of the game, do you maybe see a little bit of yourself in Davis as a quarterback?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   I think his work ethic is exceptional.   I think he's still growing, still learning how to play the position, and obviously, being banged up a little bit, it's tough.
But, he's pushing through, and he's being very mentally tough.   So, I don't know if there's any similarities, but I know his work ethic is something that stands out to me. 

Q.   Where do you feel things are with the receivers.   Are you going to shuffle things around?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   We'll keep moving them around until we find the answer.   Really impressed with how hard Brad played.   He's the one constant that each and every week you know what you're going to get blocking, catching the ball, running great routes, playing 80, 90 snaps a game. 
So, really pleased with him.   Proud of the way he's performed.   And those other guys just got to keep coming. 

Q.   You said you weren't really pleased with the man coverage, especially lately.   So going into the next game what do you think they can do different?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   Well, I think they came down and got in our face and we didn't respond to it.   That's something we got to work at and get better at.

Q.   The team not been doing that as much in the past or what made them successful?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   I would say they hadn't shown it as much.   I think with the success DeAndre had, and Justin having that big run, they just said you're going to have to run by us, and we didn't go a good job of it there late in the game. 

Q.   You mentioned the past few weeks the team rising together, talk about the excitement and seeing that West Virginia game, moving forward with that?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   Yeah, there were a couple moments, especially in the first half, where the defense would step up and the offense would step up at the same time.   So, got to continue to build off it, and hopefully, that carries on throughout the season. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   We are not sure yet.   We're going to get them out there today and see how it goes.   So that will be an end of the week decision. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   The concussion.   Yeah. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   We'll continue to rotate them in on offense, that's really it.   He'll have an expanded role on offense moving forward this first week.   We thought his first week back, really touching the ball, be careful with him, but moving forward, he'll have more of a role. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   I wouldn't say that.   But I would say he's going to be specializing on offense.

Q.   Does that mean he won't be playing linebacker?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   I wouldn't say that's ruled out.   We'll see how it goes.

Q.   I happened to run into Davis yesterday.   He had a big old plastic cast on, is that just protective?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   It is precautionary treatment they put that on after the game.   But, he was walking around fine. 

Q.   What's your big concern about Kansas?   Other than you said they're playing better?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   I just think they have some momentum.   I know they haven't won some of these games, but they have played very well on tape. 
Defensively, it's a good veteran group.   The linebacker 31 is a great player, Shepherd, I think is one of the better corners in the league and Reynolds has four sacks and is very disruptive.   So, it's a challenge on that side of the ball. 
Offensively, they have some skill.   Avery is a great rusher.   They have a wide out that's very dangerous.   You saw what they did last week.   They had that game right at the wire and we're going to need to play our best. 

Q.   Talk about ‑‑ I mean it's considerably different season this year than last year, I know there's some inexperience on some parts of the team, but can you talk about how you managed to reconcile with how well you did last year early on with what's happened this year?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   Yeah, we always approach each season as a fresh start, and a new start, and it's a different team, and different pieces. 
So, we're just growing and trying to get it right.   But it's been a resilient group.   Every week they showed up, practiced hard, and just got to keep improving. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   No, I think it's more finishing is the big deal.   I think you got to finish a game to have that success, and feel good about yourself, and you won a game.   So, we didn't get that done last week. 

Q.   I don't know how much game film you've been able to go through of Kansas, but have you seen a change in their attitude since the coaching change a couple weeks ago?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   I haven't, I couldn't speak on that, really.   But I do know you don't see a decline, I can say that.   That's a tough spot to be put in.   Teams can go either way, and they have done a great job of not letting that affect them.

Q.   Specifically, they do what they do on on defense that maybe concerns you.   They can shuttle you off and keep everything in front of them?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   No, they play man coverage, they trust their corners.   I think it's a veteran group, first, that's what jumps out is a lot of seniors on the defense that have played a lot of football, and you can tell they're very savvy.

Q.   Given the challenges to win those one‑on‑one battles, do you challenge your receivers to say, hey you're going to get man coverage?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   We'll see how they play us.   With the way we play, as fast as we play, teams will change things up.   But I wouldn't be surprised if they walked in our face and challenged us.

Q.   Obviously, you guys weren't here, but Michael had a big game last time he was here in 2012.   Is that something you can look at and see maybe what he was what he was able to do against this team in 2012?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   Not, probably not.   I think it's different each and every year, so we'll approach it with a different mindset. 

Q.   You guys started fast against West Virginia.   How important is it to be able to start fast against Kansas and finish strong?   How do you coach your players to finish strong?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   That's a great question.   That's something we got to figure out, because we obviously haven't done it this year. 
But, I think starting fast is key in any game.   So, hopefully, we can continue to do that and put together everything at the end.

Q.   Did you even have that talk with your team that obviously Kansas isn't a traditional football school.   You guys have a pretty good record against them and these seniors obviously know what they have done against them.   Do you even have that talk about motivation going against a Kansas team that maybe hasn't done so well the last few years?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   They know what that score was last week against Oklahoma State, so they will be ready. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   I haven't seen any challenges, really.   It's a great job, obviously.   And for me, it's really no challenges outside of what any college football coach faces. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   Yeah, just got to get it to him.   One of those is kind of a toss sweep.   One of them was they jumped offsides, and we threw it deep.   So, he has to continue to get better and get himself open and be creative in routes and things of that nature, because both those were pretty manufactured touchdowns. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   Yeah, they all were.   They all were. 

Q.   I know you had a lot of confidence in DeAndre all season, but did he show you anything Saturday.   Getting the ball 29 times.   It didn't seem he was affected by the workload?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   He works really hard.   He puts in the time in the weight room all summer.   We know he can carry it 50 times if he needs to.   So, we always know that we can go to him at any time.   He's one of the hardest workers on the team. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   Not sure yet.   He's another guy we'll have to get out there and see how he's feeling. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   The same.   Concussion.   Chris Payne, not sure either.   He had a leg injury.

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   Not sure.   We'll find out this week. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   Concussion. 

Q.   What's the status on Kenny Williams?
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   Like I said earlier, he'll be specializing on offense, but if we need him on defense, he can do that, as well. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
KLIFF KINGSBURY:   After talking to him and looking at things, to that point we felt like it was best for him and best for us as a team, to get him back and use him in some different roles.   Once we get him more comfortable, more reps, then you'll see an expanded role with him over there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT