TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2014
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   I know Davis is day‑to‑day.   What would it take for him to be able to play on Saturday? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   Just make sure he can protect himself, really, and operate at a level we feed him to operate.   But more than anything, that he can handle taking a hit and protect himself.

Q.   Is he still in a lot of pain? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   I haven't spoken with him today.   Yesterday he was sore, but I haven't spoken with him today.   So we'll see this afternoon what he can do out there as far as practice goes.

Q.   How do you feel about with what you said last week about Patrick and specifically coming back? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   He gets a ton of reps during the week, so we'll make sure we script it appropriately.   But he gets plenty of reps where we can get him things that we know he's comfortable with and get him repped.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
    COACH KINGSBURY:   We'll see how Davis is feeling and change it from there.

Q.   What is the situation where Davis could have split? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   Possibly.   It was 3rd and I think 15, so he knew that he was trying to get the first and came down awkwardly.   That's just him trying to be a competitor.

Q.   Coach, (Indiscernible) went into the bye week working on his foot work.   Anything that's going to stick out this week that he needs to work on, consistency or anything like that? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   Just continue to take care of the football.   That's two weeks in a row we've given him a very good football team the ball inside our own 15, and they've scored on all four of those chances, so that's the biggest deal.   We're not protecting the ball against quality opponents.   You've got to do that to win.

Q.   Your frustration with the penalties can be diminishing.   Any new ideas over the weekend? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   No, we'll just keep addressing them and keep trying to get better.   A lot of it is technique, fundamentals.   I think they're playing hard but not always smart.   So we've got to keep coaching and that's on us as a staff to get that straightened out.

Q.   You see players like Bradley Marquez take the blame for something like that.   Is it a lot of players (Indiscernible)?
    COACH KINGSBURY:   I think, like I said, it's fundamentals, techniques, things that we've got to be tougher coaching‑wise, I'd say.   Then when they're out there, they've got to execute it or we've got to find guys that can.   But to do that against anybody, you're not going to win the game, to have 16 penalties.   That's something we'll have to improve on dramatically this week against a team that's known for not making mistakes.

Q.   Did you see a difference in the defense last week when looking at film? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   I thought they played hard, great energy.   I thought we were in position to make a lot of plays.   To Oklahoma State's credit, they made a lot of those plays when the ball was in the air.   But I thought they came out with great energy as a defense and as a team I thought we did.   It gave us a lot of chances in that first half to get some separation.   I was proud of their effort, proud of their preparation, and we just keep getting better from there.

Q.   What do you see as the biggest concern going up to Kansas State?
    COACH KINGSBURY:   Our number of mistakes versus their lack of mistakes, I'd say.   He does such a good job fundamentally and techniques.   They don't make many errors.   They count on you to make those mistakes and so far we have.   We're really going to have to clean it up to compete against a team like that.

Q.   Any particular players that cause you the biggest concern in Kansas State? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I think Mueller is a guy from last year that had a good game against us, the D‑end, No. 7 is a cornerback that really flashes on tape.   As a defense, as a whole, they play together very well.   You saw that against a great offense in Auburn.   They don't give you anything.   You have to earn it all.   I think the quarterback's playing at a much higher level, and locket is one of the best players in the country, so lot of things to worry about.   But first and foremost, we have to worry about ourselves and clean everything up.

Q.   Are you done rotating your guards? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   No, we are not.   Just one of those deals we're going to make them earn it each and every week, and they've got to continue to get better.   If they want that to be a solid position.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
    COACH KINGSBURY:   He's okay today.   So last week we were still getting through it, but he's a hundred percent today.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
    COACH KINGSBURY:   He was, yes, sir.

Q.   What was it like coaching against a legend in the game?   You mentioned you just think about yourself, and does that play a factor at all coaching against a great coach like that? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   I don't think so.   I obviously have a ton of respect for him and what he's done there.   One of the greatest jobs in college football and twice he's come back and resurrected that place.   Have a tremendous amount of respect for the kind of man he is and the way he runs his program and just try to emulate.   But when you're out there and you're preparing, you're preparing like you do any other week.

Q.   What did you think of the production of your outside receivers in general? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   He's done a good job, Dylan has.   Anytime we get the ball close, he seems to come down with it.   He's still young and working, a lot of those guys are young.   But they played hard once again, lots of drops, lots of mental mistakes, and we've got to get better as a group.   But the effort was improved.

Q.   What did you think of Nigel's playing time? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   He didn't play much.   He didn't play a lot.   We've got to see what he can do in practice more, and if he deserves a chance to be out there, we'll get him out there.   If not, we'll continue to get him better.

Q.   Will you know after today whether Testaverde will be getting a substantial number of reps this week? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   I should.   We'll see how Davis responds in practice and take it from there.

Q.   Can you talk about Testaverde? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   He's a good thrower of the football, I would say.   He's young, still learning the system, but he spins it really well.   So that is something that obviously in our offense that you need and we can work with.

Q.   (Indiscernible) how aware were you of what they did last year (Indiscernible)?
    COACH KINGSBURY:   That's kind of a game‑plan question, so we'll keep that to ourselves, but he's a tremendous talent.

Q.   You see some improvement? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   Like I said, I thought they played hard.   Oklahoma State didn't try to run it as much as other teams have.   They were throwing it with high success, so they took it to the air.   But I thought they were sound and they played hard.

Q.   You mentioned growing up as a team.   Do you think Kansas State's going to give you another opportunity to do that this week? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   We'll see.   I think it's a great test for where we're at with all the mistakes we've had and playing against a team that doesn't make any mistakes.   So we'll have to try to grow up quick and match their intensity and their execution.

Q.   Can you talk about what it's like having (Indiscernible) and making his first start this weekend? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   We'll need all of them if he has to play significant time.   I think all three have done a good job having their own roles and taking responsibility for every time they go in protecting the football and blocking schemes and things of that nature.   So they've been great.   We'll have to lean on them if the young quarterback has to play.

Q.   Is he more a dual‑threat than Davis? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   Yes.

Q.   Is it more in the mold of a Johnny Manziel? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   Not to that extent.   He's a little bigger, probably not as fast, moves around well, keeps his eyes down the field and really good at extending plays.

Q.   Would you consider that his biggest strength? 
    COACH KINGSBURY:   I think so.   I think he just has that knack.   Anytime we put him in, it's not always pretty, but finds a way to move the ball down and put it in the end zone, and that's what you want at the end of the day at that position.

Q.   What are you worried about most with (Indiscernible)?
    COACH KINGSBURY:   Protecting the football, as you are with any of those young quarterbacks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT