TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 22, 2014
Kliff Kingsbury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for coach.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH KINGSBURY:   We kind of covered this last week.   He turned in his resignation.   He said what he had to say.   Really just leave it at that.   
   
 Q.   What is the atmosphere like right now after this bye week?   Talk about the atmosphere right now.   
COACH KINGSBURY:   It's exciting.   A chance to start over really.   Once you get to conference, nine games in front of us.   Everything they want to accomplish and be a part of is in front of them.   You're playing for first place Thursday night, you can't beat that.   
   
 Q.   What have you seen from Mike taking over an expanded role in the defense so far?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Relative to that, I'd say he's still himself, hasn't changed.   Brings a lot of energy.   Very positive.   Good with the players.   
Things won't change a lot schematically, or personnel.   But every guy is going to have their different way of doing things.   I think he's handled himself well.   They've had good energy over there, had some good practices.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH KINGSBURY:   It will be a group effort.   I'd say his voice will be stepped up some, but it will definitely be a group effort.   
   
 Q.   With Mike, is this an interim basis deal or is he your guy this season moving forward?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   It's an interim basis, yes, sir.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I don't think it does.   I mean, it's not like we were playing very well on any side of the ball at that point anyway.   
I don't think it hurt at all.   I think our guys did a good job of refocusing.   Like I said, we've had really good practices.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk offensively what you worked on the most this past week to get ready for Oklahoma State?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   The biggest deal is protecting the football.   If we won't turn it over.   Last game, gave them the ball two times on the 10 yard line.   We know they didn't need any help scoring points.   Can't do that.   
Got to continue to protect the football, continue to take advantage of opportunities, not squander drives like we have been doing.   
   
 Q.   What are you expecting from Mike?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just to do the best we can.   He didn't ask to be put in this situation.   It's a situation that occurred.   We all have to rally with the situation we have, what's going on.   
He knows that.   Just be positive, give the players a chance to be successful.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the response from the players to Mike right now?   Is it a good response right now?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Players are resilient.   They're a lot more resilient than the coaches are.   Excited about this opportunity to play Thursday night on national TV.   
   
 Q.   What are the biggest issues that this team presents for you?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   They're really good.   I think people thought they would drop off.   They lost a bunch of good players last year.   But these young players have stepped up, they haven't skipped a beat.   
Watching them the first couple games, they all fly around.   You saw that against Florida State.   It will be a big challenge.  
Up front, those guys gave us trouble last year.   That whole group is back.   We'll have to find a way to protect well and find a way to run the football.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH KINGSBURY:   I would say Saturday.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH KINGSBURY:   I don't remember.   I think Thursday and Saturday.   I think we took Friday off, so...   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Matt Brock.)   
COACH KINGSBURY:   He'll start coaching the inside linebackers.   He's been helping with that side of the ball for the last two years.   Now he'll be able to step into that position group and coach them.   
   
 Q.   2001, what do you remember about that game?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   It's a great place to play.   I coached there twice, 2009, 2011, when I was at the University of Houston.   2008, 2009.   It's loud, rowdy.   Great facilities up there.   It's an incredible place to play a football game.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about what you worked on with Davis this past week.   
COACH KINGSBURY:   He's got to do it, you know.   He's had a good look about him.   The big deal is just making sure how we're practicing translates over to the playing field.   
Then, like I mentioned earlier, we have to protect the football.   We can't put our defense in those situations.   No more three‑and‑outs and squandering possessions because teams are going to hold onto the ball.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just like his demeanor.   He's obviously talented, but really watching him in person you can see the way he handles himself and his demeanor.   
   
 Q.   To see a team from West Texas do what they did, what was your impression of that?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   A lot of fun to watch, the spirit they had, being a big underdog, the way they competed.   They fought the entire game.   Just watching their reaction.   Fun to be out at high school games.   Very pure atmosphere.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH KINGSBURY:   I think more than anything he throws it as well as anybody you'll see as far as mechanics, the way it comes out of his hand.   Off‑the‑field stuff is through the roof, the type of leader he is, the type of kid he is.   The way he handles himself off the field takes him to that next level.   
   
 Q.   Oklahoma State likes to put up a lot of points.   The perception is they throw it all around the yard.   Is that a misperception?   Do they take up more of the clock than people think?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Definitely.   They've done a great job incorporating the run.   I think when Weeden was there, they had Blackmon, were really slinging it around.   They've done a great job of bringing it back in, playing to their strengths.   That's what they want to do.   
   
 Q.   Does that almost make you want to take up some of that time of possession, run it a little bit more than you have?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   No.   Just score more, I'd say.   That's what we've got to do.   We're not scoring enough.   And we've got to protect the football.   
   
 Q.   Is this a case for if the defense and offense plays a clean quarter, it gets the engine running?   Maybe you haven't done that, but if you do that, things would change for everybody?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   You would hope so.   We haven't risen up at the same time.   Defense will get a stop.   Offense will turn it over.   Defense will give up a long drive, then the offense will score.   But we can't put it together yet.   
But there's some good stuff happening.   We just got to do it at the same time.   
   
 Q.   Is there any one thing that's been the most disappointing through three games so far for you?   Is it something different each game?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, I mean, every game to me, we haven't played as well as we can play.   As a coach, that's what you're looking for.   You want to see your team play well.   It's not a lack of effort, we just haven't put it together yet.   
   
 Q.   Is there sort of wisdom or advice you give Davis?   You being a quarterback, being in those shoes, to help things slow down for him?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Yeah, it's all part of the process.   I remember being a sophomore, getting booed off the field here.   I remember Graham getting booed off the field here.   It takes time to grow up.   You got a lot on your shoulders.   You just have to keep plugging away.   We'll get it.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH KINGSBURY:   I'm not sure how they're handling that, to be honest.   That's a compliance deal.   We've talked through that.   He has been cleared, but I don't know what you would call him at this point.   
   
 Q.   Probably won't face a team quite like Arkansas in the Big 12.   What can you do to stir up the run short of putting eight or nine guys in the box?   
COACH KINGSBURY:   I think just get better.   We had eight, nine guys in there last week, and it wasn't working.   We just got to get better, technique, fundamentals.   If that's not working, we have to improve personnel.   That's where we are at.   
Like I said, I don't think it's lack of effort.   We need to shore everything up.  
   
 Q.   What do you feel is the biggest asset to have Mike down on the sidelines with you instead of up in the box?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   I'm not sure to be honest until we get him down there and see how it goes.   
He brings a lot of energy, always positive.   It will be a good vibe.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Great thrower of the football.   I knew when he was coming out, you watch him throw it, he can really spin it.   That's the biggest thing.   I thought he handled himself well having not played for a while, stepping n leading them to a win against a big team.   You could tell the moment wasn't too big for him.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
COACH KINGSBURY:   Just some text messages.   I wish he could play.   Other than that, I don't know what tips would help us.   I wish he could play.   
   
 Q.   No.24 for Oklahoma State, putting him in a lot of different spots.   Talk about his versatility.   
COACH KINGSBURY:   He is as dynamic a player as you'll see in college football.   Explosive.   They move him around, get the ball in his hands as many times as they can.   He's a great player, difference maker.  
   
 Q.   Is that a point of emphasis, that you don't get caught in a mismatch?  
COACH KINGSBURY:   You always got to know where he's at, always got to have a plan where he's going to be definitely going into this game.   
Appreciate it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT