ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 7, 2004
Edith Hunkeler
Bob Laufer
Saul Mendoza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BOB LAUFER:   I'm Bob Laufer, the wheelchair race coordinator.  I wanted to give you background on both racers because they were quite spectacular today.  Ian did not mention, but Edith's time of 1:53:27 was six seconds better than the course record set last year, which is an improvement.  I'm sure she'll be the first to admit this the fact that her countrywoman, Sandra Graf, who came in second, was the winner virtually all the way.  Indeed the first four women, Edith and Sandra, and Diane from Canada, who had the prior course record, and fourth place Miriam Nibley only missed it by 30 seconds.  So it was a wonderful race.  It's what I've been looking for in both categories for many years, which were close races right up to the end.  Usually in part because the streets in New York, we end up with one person alone at the end and here we had wonderful races.  Saul, it's nice to have him back on the victory stand after winning in 2001.  His time this year surpassed his time back then by also close to six minutes.  So, this course is either getting easier, which I doubt, or the racers are getting more accustomed to it and faster.  We pretty much have a course record every year and I hope that continues. In addition we had a five-person race for the men for virtually the entire race.  We came into Manhattan and Aaron from Mexico got a flat followed Ernst Van Dyk from South Africa, who is a record holder.  We were left with three, Saul as first and still the course record holder, and Krige Schabort from South Africa and Kelly Smith from Canada who was third.  They all finished between 1:33 and 1:34, within a minute.  They were all together right until we turned into the park from Columbus Circle and then it was the sprint, and the others will admit that Saul is one of best sprinters in the world and that paid off.  We probably would have had a course record today if it wasn't too tactical, five and then three going together until the end.  Also, New York Road Runners and WNBC beefed up the wheelchair coverage of the wheelchair race, and picked a good year to do it because of the close races.  We were also helped by the expert commentary of Bill Molinatti, who is a former racer, and he did the TV coverage and I hope that added measurably to the understanding and everyone's enjoyment of the race.  Now you can ask your questions. 

Q.  Last year, you came out really fast and had a huge lead and then you sort of lost it midway through.  This year, you started out fast again, but you roped it back, was that a conscious decision on your part? 

SAUL MENDOZA:   Yes, actually I'm a climber, too, so that was not easy for me to try to make a difference.  It's a long race, so it's hard to do a marathon by yourself but I tried as much as I can all the time to be fast. 

Q.  This being a tactical race, I know you said you were really tired after a long year, but did you guys realize that if somebody really made a break they may not be able to take it down to the finish? 

SAUL MENDOZA:   Yes, that is correct.  I think it is a long season for everybody.  For myself, I did the Olympics, also.  So it's already been a long year for us, but I think everybody is already tired from so much racing and traveling around the world. 

Q.  There was the incident between the four-mile mark and the five-mile mark, we could not see it, could you tell us what happened there? 

SAUL MENDOZA:   Actually, I was trying to make a pass at that moment and it was mile four, up the hill and I just put my head down and pushed as hard as I could.  And suddenly, I feel somebody in front of me.  So I could not really see.  Out of nowhere somebody crossed the street and we have an incident.  Everything was fine, I myself, I'm fine, I have a little bruise here but other than that, I'm fine. 

Q.  It seemed like the same thing that was going on in the men's race was taking place with the women, was that something that you realized, also, that was the most effective strategy in a race like this? 

EDITH HUNKELER:   It's difficult to say for us.  I mean, we work together a long time but everybody wants to win.  I thought I caught all of the big holes on the street and then once, someone had to go away and I could not go with her, I had a little bit to relax.  It was really hard to catch Sandra again.  I never expected to catch her.  But the obvious, I normally hate the uphills, it was my advantage today, I could catch her.  But unfortunately I think everybody wants to win this race because New York is a special race.  For me, this is the first time, and also for Sandra I think, yeah. 

Q.  Coming in, knowing that Cheri, she was defending champion in this year's race, knowing that a returning champion would likely be the favorite, did you think that because of that, that was your year or a better year because Cheri was not around? 

EDITH HUNKELER:   I know she is really fast uphill, also Christina, I thought Christina will be fast, too.  And you never know, every race starts first and then you have to cross the finish line.  So, I mean, I don't know how fast Cheri could be today.  I mean, Sandra and I and also Diane, we worked hard, and we finished first I have never been asked this question. 

BOB LAUFER:   Unfortunately on the first mile she broke a wheel and didn't finish.  Although listening to what sounded like a jalopy, it made so much noise, but she finished.  She would have been in the mix as Edith said if she had not cracked a wheel on the bridge. 

Q.  Can both of you talk about the weather conditions today, sunny, mild, hardly any wind, did that really help the times? 

SAUL MENDOZA:   The weather today, I think it's the best weather I have experienced in New York.  I'm very excited about it.   Normally I am cold but I was fine, I felt good.  I think it was a great weather.  Of course, all of the sponsors they bring the race together and all of the volunteers make a difference, too and a good job by everybody today.  It made it a wonderful race. 

EDITH HUNKELER:   Also, for me, the weather was great.  I expected colder weather, but it was just great and to do this race, I'm happy. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT