SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 8, 2020
Cameron Champ
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How many comeback birdies did you have today and was that sort of up, down, up, down, up down?
 CAMERON CHAMP:   After my double on 3 I birdied, what was it, 4 and 5?
 Kind of made a bad bogey on 6 there, but then was able to birdie 7 and 9.
 So I really only made one mistake today, hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in, caught a lot of edges, same on the last for eagle.  But my game feels good and I'm just going to keep pushing it.
 Q. Are you more positive than looking back on that one bad swing or are you more positive leaving today?
 CAMERON CHAMP:   Oh, extremely.  I felt like that was the worst I could have possibly shot and again, to me, those -- again, the shot on 3, the decision we made there.
 And then really didn't hit a terrible wedge shot on 6, I just played it to the wrong side and it spun off.  So if I par those it was a solid day.  So it's a solid day in general, but, yeah, definitely a lot of positives.
 Q. And when you're playing, both you guys are two of the longest five players in the world, does that make it differently playing with another one of the longest players?  What's it like to play with another long driver player?
 CAMERON CHAMP:   I mean, I like it.  Again it's, sometimes it's easier to see, we're relatively the same club, so it's easier to club.  Versus other players, we really don't even see what they're really hitting.  So obviously Bryson, he's played amazing today and it's easy to feed off that too when you're playing with someone like him.  And the round he shot today, it's kind of easy to feed off that energy and try to make as many birdies as you can.
 Q. I saw you give him a fist pump there on 9 because you out drove him.  Was that the only one?  I was trying to keep track.  But that was obviously a bit of fun to try to go with him.
 CAMERON CHAMP:   Yeah, I figured, I mean, again, I was swinging the driver good all day, I was like, you know what, let's just see, and just mess around and it was more of a joke afterwards.  I'm just joking around and just kind of having fun with it.
 Q. But you got him.
 CAMERON CHAMP:   Yeah.  (Laughing.)  He would have flown me by probably 20 yards, but I got him on the roll, so there's a difference, there's a difference.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT