WALKER CUP
September 10, 2017
Will Zalatoris
Cameron Champ
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously this match kind of turned when you guys won five holes in a row on the front.  Talk about that stretch and the grinding you guys had to do and one birdie in that stretch as well?
WILL ZALATORIS: Yeah, I think, if anything, we just kept playing our game and just let them make mistakes and we just played really solid.  He made a bunch of really tough putts today for birdie on 1 and 6 that were memorable and when you're just hitting a bunch of greens it wears on opponents like this, especially when you only have one ball in play.  It was a lot of fun today.
Q. How comfortable did you guys get as a team when you get a lead like that?
CAMERON CHAMP: Yeah, our games are very similar, so I think for us it just worked out really well because we obviously switched partners and I was playing the evens, he was playing the odds, and we're both long hitters, good iron players and putters, etcetera, so it just worked out great.  Like he said, we didn't make any mistakes really.  We just stayed steady just played simple golf and just came out on top.
Q. Have you played as partners at all this week leading up to it?
WILL ZALATORIS: No, we played a bunch together, but not as partners.
Q. How about just getting your first point, Cameron, after a tough day yesterday?
CAMERON CHAMP: Yeah, obviously yesterday was really frustrating, all around.  Just wasn't doing anything good.  Obviously to get this point was huge just for us to play like the way we did.  It was really great.
Q. Obviously you guys are now in a really good position to get the Cup, another point on the board, there's a lot of red up there on the other three matches as well.
WILL ZALATORIS: Yeah, just keep on plugging.  You got to get 13 and a half.  I don't care what it is, you just have to get 13 and a half.  So we're not letting our guard down until we get to that 13 and a half number.
Q. Will, talk about how impressed you are with Cameron from bouncing back from yesterday.
WILL ZALATORIS: Yeah, I was an annoying little gnat in his ear for the first six holes, just telling him how good he was and I'm sure he got tired of it.  But it was really fun having 70 yards in on 10 today, that's for sure.  I mean, he played so good.  He made a bunch -- he made a couple of birdies to start and made a couple of really good putts and that was, that's stuff that, once you're 5-up through 7 I think, 5-up through 7 and we didn't tie a hole.  And the one hole that we lost was 2 and he was a foot off the fairway.  And I kept telling him, like the first hole, he was just off the front edge and he was kind of a little disappointed and then he was a foot off the fairway on 2 and I'm like, dude, you're playing really good, just keep on plugging.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT