BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2020
Cameron Champ
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Cam, you're sitting on that bubble for the rest of the day.  What will you do the rest of the afternoon?  Will you watch, keep an eye on it, or will you just wait and see what shakes out?
 CAMERON CHAMP:   Just wait and see how it shakes out.  There's obviously a million different scenarios that could go down.  I have a flight scheduled to go back home.  I'm just going to go about my day and obviously when I land I'll probably find out if I made it or not.
 You know, I gave it my all I could this week.  Obviously it wasn't too much.  Wasn't too many good shots.  But again, I can say I gave it my best.
 Q. Are you an app watcher, someone who will sort of look at it throughout the day or will you just try to keep away from it until later?
 CAMERON CHAMP:   No, I'll just keep away from it.  Like I say, there's so many things that could happen.  Whatever it is, I'm a few shots away, one guy can drop and another one going up.  We'll just have to wait and see and see where the chips fall.
 Q. Let's make the assumption it does fall your way; how do you approach next week?  You'll be at the back of the pack but you've still got a crack at it, can still go hard for the FedExCup?
 CAMERON CHAMP:   Yeah, it's just the start of a fresh week, different golf course.  Yeah, I mean, it would definitely be exciting.  It's been a solid year for me regardless if I make it or not.  I can't really be frustrated about that if I don't make it, but obviously I would like to, but like I said, it's just a wait-and-see type game.
 Q. You've been wonderfully vocal pre-this tournament and during this week with what's going on.  Just a recap on your thoughts on how that's been for you?
 CAMERON CHAMP:   Yeah, it's been great.  Like I said, I didn't play well this week, but I think a lot of good came out of it for me personally and for my team and just with the TOUR, as well.  Again, it's a subject that needs to be talked about more but actually action taken, and again, for me it just feels like I can be a vocal point with that, with my background, and just kind of how I feel about the subject and how it affects me and my family.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT