PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2020
Cameron Champ
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









JOHN DEVER:   Good afternoon. Welcome back to the 2020 PGA Championship here at TPC Harding Park. Pleased to be joined by Cameron Champ, who posted a third round 67.  He's at 8-under par after three rounds and is just one shot off the lead.
Cameron, your strong play really began yesterday, but it didn't let up terribly much today.  You had another terrific round.  Was there momentum from Friday to Saturday for you?
CAMERON CHAMP:   Yeah, I think just the comfortability, and again, I've been really feeding off my driver.  That's been the key for me.  Obviously today, I missed a few more fairways than I did yesterday, but I still was able to manage it from the rough.  The drives I did hit well and I did hit in the fairway, I was able to take advantage of and make some putts.
Q. Here in Sacramento everyone has been following what you've been doing.  You had success last year not far from home in Napa.  What is it about playing in this area that gets you for focused?  How would you describe it?
CAMERON CHAMP:   Obviously there is a comfortability.  I've played a lot of golf down here growing up in junior events, state ams.  And also, this has similar weather conditions as Monterey, which I've played a lot in, so I'm definitely used to that, kind of cold and damp.  And again, I've been playing well.  I just haven't really put things together.  But it's just nice to see, like I said, to putt three solid rounds together to start the tournament.
Q. Setting up as a great Sunday, great leaderboard.  What tells you that you're ready for that moment tomorrow?
CAMERON CHAMP:   I mean, obviously I put in the hard work.  I've done everything I possibly can.  I'm just going to stick to what we've been doing.  I have been playing well.  All aspects are improving, and for me that's really the key, just to see improvement.
Tomorrow, obviously if I shoot even par or if I shoot 6-under, the score is going to be what it's going to be.  But as long as I stick to myself and stick to what we're trying to each and every shot, then I can accept that.
Q. You sort of just addressed the Sunday thing, but how different will it be?  You've been in contention and won a couple times.  How much does that help you deal with the final round tension?  And unrelated question on your driver.  Are there a couple holes where you have a choice and you prefer to hit driver and it's worked out, maybe use as an example?
CAMERON CHAMP:   Yeah, there's definitely a comfortability there.  Like you said, I've been in that situation a few times.  I embrace it.  I love it.  Again, this is what we play for, to get in contention, to win tournaments.
Obviously this is a major.  You know, I'm not looking at it any other way besides, again, just going through my process.  Obviously like I said, the comfortability is there, but I'm just going to stick to it.  I'm sure there will be a little bit of nerves at some point throughout the round, but again, that's part of it.  That's what I'm looking for  --  looking forward to and just embrace it.
And to answer your second question, not really.  I mean, there's -- out here, there's a lot of driver holes, almost every single hole, really.  You know, some holes I kind of have to try to work it a little more than I usually would, but again, with how well I'm hitting my driver, there's no reason not to hit it, and I've definitely been managing it decent from the rough.  So for me it's a huge comfort knowing that, that I can just let it go, and if I happen to hit it in the rough then I just hit it on the green and 2-putt from there.
Q. You've talked about being from the area and having familiarity with some of the elements, but do you like these elements?  You're in Houston right now, or you're based out of Houston and been playing in a lot of warm weather.  Do you like these elements, and is that familiarity an advantage in terms of how you prepare for?
CAMERON CHAMP:   Definitely.  I mean, I'm definitely not scared of the wind.  Obviously went to school at A&M.  Played a lot of golf in Texas and it can really blow.
You know, I really don't mind the wind.  Obviously it makes the course just a little bit tougher, but again, like I said, I've been hitting it well.  I've been executing the shots.  Obviously today, I made a few slip-ups, ones obviously you wish you could get back.
Tomorrow, I think I just go about it how I went the last three days, and you know, see where I fare at the end.
Q. Does anything surprise you, being in this position that you are heading into the final round?  And does it feel like a major because of the uncharted territory for yourself?
CAMERON CHAMP:   No, it definitely feels like a major.  You know, all of us, again, obviously there's no fans.  There's not people cheering and roaring, but this is a major.  So regardless if there's fans or no fans, I'm sure all of us, again, I'm sure whoever is in contention coming down the stretch, you're going to feel those nerves and the excitement and the adrenaline.  Again, like I said, it's something I'm looking forward to, something I'm going to embrace, and I guess, like I said, see where I fare after that.
JOHN DEVER:   Excellent play today.  Continued luck into tomorrow and enjoy your evening, sir.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT