ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: OREGON v WISCONSIN
December 30, 2011
Patrick Butrym
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You guys have been here all week, and all the press conferences and everything, is it just time to play? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, all the pageantry is nice.   It's nice to enjoy everything, but I think it's time to play.   It's hard to believe that it's typically a Wednesday game week even though it's Friday today.   So looking forward to getting all of this behind us and just playing football.

Q.   How have preparations gone for you?   Are you ready to go on the 2nd? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, I think so.   Since we've gotten down here, we really have practiced better each day and gotten better each day.   So I'm starting to have confidence in what we're doing, and come game day, we'll be ready.

Q.   What has been‑‑ you talked about it a little bit all of a sudden, the outside scheme.   Have you had a favorite thing you've done so far this week outside of practice? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   What have we done?   We've been to Disneyland, there was a Knicks game, Lawry's Beef Bowl, I'm missing one other thing.   But I enjoyed Disneyland.   I've always been a fan of the amusement parks.

Q.   Talk about the new uniforms (Inaudible)?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, I like them.   They kind of maintain our simplicity and our orange nationality just with the rose pattern and the number, I think it's nice.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think they're really patient runners, and they'll see a play diagnosed and things will look muddled up, and then they'll break off a big play.   So you really need to rally with those guys and tackle and get off your blocks.

Q.   Based on Kenjon and LaMichael(Inaudible)? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   LaMichael James is one of the best players the country.   They're both extremely important to the team and they do different things so they bring different values.   I wouldn't put one's importance over the other.

Q.   Wondering what do you think of the new uniforms that you guys have?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I like them.   They're simple, they're subtle.   You probably can't tell the difference from a distance, but they maintain our orange nationality.   But it's a nice new changeup.

Q.   A lot of people say it's not much of a departure from the normal.   So you like that? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, I do, I do.   I think we're starting to develop a tradition of a consistent uniform.   We're not quite like Notre Dame or Penn State, but it's been the same for a while.

Q.   What's it like in Wisconsin?   Are there things about Wisconsin that people in Oregon wouldn't know right off the bat from watching movies and stuff? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think people think that it's probably really boring and not entertaining.   I'm from the suburbs of Milwaukee, and we have Summerfest in the summer, which is the nation's largest music festival, which is always fun.   Madison's a great town, great social life from that perspective. 
I enjoy Milwaukee.   The population isn't that large, but I think it's a great state to live in.

Q.   So are there any like foods or that sort of thing that are around that are really good? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Well, we're kind of famous for bratwurst and beer.   To be completely honest, cheese, obviously.   We're America's dairy land.   That would be about it.   That's indigenous to our culture as Wisconsinites.   But other than that, I'd say we eat the same food as everybody else.

Q.   How is LaMichael James and De'Anthony Thomas and Darron Thomas all kind of working through your game planning this week?   Is it a lot of focus on being disciplined on the end and forcing everything back inside?   What's kind of the focus for you guys as defensive linemen this week? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Just playing your gap, maintaining gap accountability.   If you get out of your gap, those guys will make big plays. 
So just do your job, separate from blocks, shed from blocks, make plays when the opportunity comes to you.

Q.   What is the difference between this year and last year? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Just knowing it, I guess, having been here.   But we are staying at a different hotel this year.   Near L.A. Live.   I like the hotel this year better.   I do.   I think the area last year was better for us, but now it's‑‑

Q.   Is your family here? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, they got in last night.

Q.   That's fun. 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I had 30 people come last year, and I have 26 this year.

Q.   Nice. 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   We lost four.   I don't know if they're all out here.   They're not all out here now, but they'll scatter in.

Q.   How many other guys have that many people? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Not too many.   It's always really fun.

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about Oregon's game nature and the mentality of it's not just stopping them on downs, you've got to have them (Inaudible)?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Well, it changes your game plan on third down because if you get into a third and seven, that's still running territory for them.   So they can cut the chunks for fourth down. 
You need to play four downs and expect that kind of stuff, because they have an offense that's capable of doing that and making up for that if they do make errors on fourth down.   So you just need to prepare for that. 
Making stops on fourth down is critical, especially outside their 50, moving in to 40, that's big.

Q.   Has it been difficult to analyze that offense and break it down? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   It has, because you're so familiar with watching them.   They're on TV so much and they're so talked about, that it's nice to face them, but it's a challenge to face them.   But it's a challenge that you embrace because they're one of the nation's elite programs, and that's why you play in bowl games like these.

Q.   Does the defense have a little bit of a chip on their shoulder in that regard? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   A little bit.   I think we have something to prove in this game, especially to ourselves coming into this.   I think we've had a very solid year.   It will be a great way to cap it off playing well against Oregon.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, absolutely.   After coming back after losing last year, it still stings.   It's nice coming back and making right what we didn't do last year.

Q.   What do you think of the jerseys? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Ours? 

Q.   Yeah. 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I like them.   I think they're simple, very subtle, but maintain our orange nationality.

Q.   You weren't expecting Bret to come out with something like the Ducks would wear?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   No, I knew what was coming with this.   I saw it a while ago.

Q.   Does it fit differently?   Is it a fit difference or just the appearance? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Just the appearance.   It fits a little differently, we'll see.   We'll see how it fits with the jersey on.

Q.   Is the fit a factor too? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   It's tighter, for sure.

Q.   Can you talk about all of the events that you've gone through while being here, what has been the most exciting thing for you? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   We did a lot of this last year.   So last night we went to a Laker game.   Something I didn't get to experience.   It was a good experience.

Q.   What do you like the most? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I'm from Milwaukee, I'm a Bucks fan.   I think the NBA gets interesting in April and May.   But it was a good experience to be there and see guys that are on TV so often for really the NBA's premier team.

Q.   Talk about the focus of the team this year in comparison to last year? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think last year was such a new experience for us that it was almost content with just being here with a lot of guys.   Now this year after experiencing a loss, there is so much more urgency in our approach coming into this year.   No doubt the goal is to win.

Q.   What has been done for you guys differently this year compared to last year? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Well, I don't think you can really remove that.   You have to embrace that.   That's why you want to play in games like these.   But just the entire approach that we've taken not necessarily by the coaches, but the entire program in general still you have to determine with so much left in the week.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Just winning, I want to win this game and leave a legacy as a senior, and parallel the highest of highs this program has ever had and pass off the torch to younger guys and turn us into an elite program.   I think we're headed in the right direction.

Q.   Do you have anything you'd like to say to central Wisconsin? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Hey.

Q.   That's very nice.   What is your favorite part about the Rose Bowl? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   The pageantry.

Q.   Who is your favorite person on the sidelines? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Myself.   Just kidding.   Jacob Ninneman.   Yep, No. 58.

Q.   The second time around, what is the difference?   Is it mental? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, definitely different mentally.   I think the approach you take, there is a lot more urgency in our approach.   Used to what they throw at you with all of the events.   Last year was amazing.   Now you appreciate the experience, but it's definitely more about football this time.

Q.   The fans seem to be looking at Oregon.   The linebackers are key (Inaudible)? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Very important especially for our linebackers to separate blocks.   If there is a play for us to make, we have to make it.   If not, that's how they make great plays.

Q.   Keeping you guys in the back field, pretty constructive upfront for special teams?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, I think so.   If can you set the line of scrimmage, set edges, even if you're not required to with your assignment.   But if you can set edges and just play and be accountable through your gap, we'll have success.   But it's not just taking care of your gap.   You need to make the tackle and make tackles when the opportunity presents itself.

Q.   You're trying to prepare for this quick tempo offense.   How ready do you think can you get?   Or is it one of those things you'll find out when you get there? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think we've done a good job preparing for it so far.   When you do that, you just want the ball to be snapped as fast as possible, and we've done a pretty good job of that in practice.   But you might feel that as you go along throughout the game.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think this is technically a Wednesday of game week.   So game day isn't too far away.   I think you're enjoying the experience, but now you're focussing a lot more, and now it's just about playing the game.

Q.   Do you have any experience with questions and trying to come up with a way to answer things?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I just answer it the same way by now.

Q.   Are you tired of getting questions about uniforms and all that stuff? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Not really.   It's not my first rodeo.   I've been around for a while, so.

Q.   Are you happy you had the time off? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, we needed the time off.   Last year I wished we had played right away, but we needed the extra time this year, and I think we'll benefit from that come Monday.

Q.   Talk about the hype leading up to the Rose Bowl? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Being here the second time, we're used to everything, all the events.   Now you gain an appreciation for it.   Last year we were more‑‑ it was such a new experience, and just trying to take it all in, and now I think it's a lot more about football.

Q.   There was so much talk leading up to this about Oregon's speed.   Are you tired of that or are you embracing that challenge? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   No, that's true.   That's why they've had success, and why they've won so many games and they're an elite program, because they do have play makers in their back field and as receivers.   So you embrace a challenge like that.   That's why you play in games like these. 
You don't play in games like these to play mediocre opponents.   You play great opponents.   That's why you feel so much more accomplished if you can get a win in games like these.

Q.   You guys have new uniforms but they're very subtle. 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, we're not straying too far away from the Norm.   Just very subtle changes that people probably won't be able to tell from far distances away.   I like it.   It's a nice changeup, and all about what the Rose Bowl is.

Q.   Last year a lot of the concentration seemed to be on J.J., last year, that kind of thing.   Now talk about how you've kind of come in and solidified things on the line.   Did you learn anything from him last year? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   J.J. is a play maker.   We obviously don't have a play maker like that, but I think we have a solid group.   Leadership was more of my characteristic this year, and we have solid guys up front and we do our job.   A lot of people don't know who we are, but we're fine with that.

Q.   That is the kind of thing about Wisconsin is it's kind of anonymous group on the defensive line, at least until J.J. got there and started to make some noise?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, before that, there was O'Brien Schofield who led the nation in TFLs.   But Chris Borland and Mike Taylor have made up for a lot of J.J.'s production last year and up front we've produced but not nearly to the amount that J.J. has.   But we've obviously had some success, so something's working.

Q.   Do you like it being a bunch of Wisconsin guys pretty much? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   It doesn't really matter to me, as long as we're winning.

Q.   It just seem it's works out that way with the guy's up front, the skill guys are a little different?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, usually that's how it is, but that's been a formula for success for us.

Q.   I'm just curious your impressions of Oregon's offense and the tempo they play it at?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   They move fast.   That is my impression of it.   Faster than anybody I've ever seen.

Q.   They wear teams down.   That's what they try to do.   Do you worry about the conditioning, being able to keep up with them? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think we'll be prepared for it because we've had extra time to prepare for it.   There is no question we'll get tired through the course of the game, but that's why you have depth and guys that you can rotate.

Q.   How would you practice for and prepare for it?   Extra conditioning?   How do you get ready? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   A lot of extra conditioning, and also try to simulate their pace in practice for a couple of periods, which is difficult to do.   But I think we've been as successful as we possibly can just given the circumstances of everything.   So it's been a good experience. 
I think that preparing for these guys in a week will be extremely difficult, but with this extended preparation, it will definitely benefit us, I believe.

Q.   Is there offense similar to anything you see in the Big Ten? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   No, nothing.   We see spread offenses, but we don't see anything quite like this.

Q.   Because of the pace? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Because of some of the pace, and also stuff they run.   They'll run your typical inside zone read and stuff like that, but they'll throw in wrinkles that you really don't see.   A lot of bubbles, a lot of bubbles that they rely a lot on. 
But the blocking scheme and a lot of things they do are very similar.   But I just wouldn't classify it in the same category.

Q.   Aside from the tempo, can you get a good sense of the speed that they have in the different skill positions just by watching film? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, you definitely can.   Big plays, you see a lot of big plays happening.   Those guys are obviously in great shape because that is the offense that they run all year round.   So you watch LaMichael James and Darron Thomas and those guys can really move.   You can see it on film. 
They're such patient runners back there that they'll try to be patient and bounce around back there for a few seconds on a play, and boom, they're off to the races.

Q.   What do you think of LaMichael James as a running back? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think he's great.   He's one of the best in the country.

Q.   And how about Thomas with him as a quarterback? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Very solid.   Very solid.   He can definitely run.   You have to respect his ability to run, but I do respect his ability to throw the ball too.

Q.   Is there anything different this time around? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think we were a lot more urgent this time.   Last year we're enjoying the experience, but this year it's a lot more about football.

Q.   Talking about the supersonic drill, how fast is it coming at you? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   They'll snap the ball in six to ten seconds from the whistle.

Q.   That's about what Oregon does? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah.

Q.   How long does it take to get set? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   The first time we did it, it was a cluster.   But after that we got used to it.   I think now you do it with so much more poise.   You get the call.   You see what formation they're in, you get lined up and then you play.

Q.   Does it change how you communicate as a defense? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   It does a little bit.   A lot less hand signals as far as getting the calls from coaches, but very simple game plan, and you have to minimize a lot of the communication that you need from player to player.

Q.   On the defensive line in particular, where does‑‑ how do you contain them? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   You have to be accountable through your gaps and just do your job.   When an opportunity to make a play presents itself, you have to make the play.

Q.   As a senior, what is different about being here from last year? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I'd say urgency and approach.   Last year being a new experience, we'd never been here before.   So our first BCS bowl game, all of us as a team.   We came back this year just experienced the whole thing last year, all the pageantry of the game, all of the events.   Now I think we have an appreciation for them, but the main focus is football.

Q.   Last night you guys were at Lawry's and came out on top.   Did you see Travis? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I didn't.   I didn't want to get sick.   No thanks.   I ate two plates, and I was full.   That was fine with me.

Q.   Can you describe to me what a Badger is? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   The funny thing is we are called the Badgers not because of the large amount of Badgers in the state.   But when settlers arrived in Wisconsin, they burrowed themselves in dugouts like Badgers because of the cold weather.

Q.   So there are no Badgers in Wisconsin? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I don't think so.

Q.   You've never seen one? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   No.

Q.   There is a town called Oregon near Madison.   Do you know anything about the town? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, we have a player, Jake Ninneman is from Oregon.   If you say Oregon to someone from Oregon, they get very offended.   True? 

Q.   Very true. 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Why that? 

Q.   I'm from Illinois, so I know.   So you know Illinois.   If they call it Illinois?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Or Illinois, yeah, yeah.

Q.   What's he like?   What's Jake like? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   It's not too far outside Madison.   It's not different from any of the players from Wisconsin on the team.

Q.   Can you describe the town of Oregon, what's it like? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I've never been there.

Q.   Never been there. 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   No.

Q.   Where you from? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Milwaukee.

Q.   Lot of people around Montee Ball over there.   You ever get jealous of those offensive guys?
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Not at all.

Q.   Congratulations on being Big Ten championship and starters and winning that Big Ten Championship game.   That was a crazy game.   Lot of ups and downs.   Kind of reminded me of (Inaudible).   What are some of the things that you've provided leadership wise during the tough times it's easy when everything's going great, right? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, I think coming together as a team.   Building the chemistry that we built and going back to last January and just getting back to what we needed to do.   Taking it one game at a time.   I remember the first game after the two losses to Purdue, it was nice to be back home and getting an opportunity to play in front of our home crowd again.   We came out and played really well. 
Just to get that first win after that and get back on the right track and then after that I think things came a little more natural to us again.

Q.   What is the biggest challenge the Ducks will bring to you on Monday? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think pace.   They have great play makers in the back field.   I have a lot of respect for those guys, and we need to make tackles when those opportunities are presented to us and just keep up with our pace.

Q.   Have you been doing more of those hellish conditioning drills to prepare for the Rose Bowl? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   We have.   And we've done periods where we've tried to simulate their pace as best as we can.   We've done an all right job with it, I think.   We've done a good job preparing for these guys so far, and we've still got a few days to prepare for them.

Q.   Speaking of leadership on the other side of the ball.   Russell Wilson came here.   He was courted to come here for his final senior year.   What surprised you with Russell and maybe what hasn't surprised you with him leading the team on offense? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I didn't know he was that good, to be honest.   I heard he was a very good player coming from State.   But I think he's a great college quarterback, and I think his talents will transfer into the NFL game.   I think he'll get drafted. 
But he's impressed me so much.   He's a great leader.   I heard he was a great guy coming in.   Just a great fit for our program, and exactly what we needed.

Q.   There is all this talk about him being a special quarterback coming in, and I think he's proven that he is.   What was the first perception of him?   The first thing you noticed about Russell when you first met him? 
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Just how polished he is.   He's extremely polished and wanted to get to know everybody coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT