ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: OREGON v WISCONSIN
December 29, 2011
Patrick Butrym
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What challenge does that Oregon offensive line present to you guys?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   They do what they do very well.   The challenge is we haven't really seen anyone that runs an offense like they do, but more so the tempo that they run it in.   That is going to be our most difficult challenge.  
   
 Q.   What have you guys done to simulate that pace?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   We've tried to simulate their pace, to be honest, that's how we did it.  
   
 Q.   How do you do that?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   It takes a lot of organization.   The most key thing is when they run their super sonic pace‑‑ that's what they call it‑‑ we try to snap the ball in six or seven, eight seconds.   It comes down to coaches and organizations.   Getting scout players lined up as quickly as possible.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
PATRICK BUTRYM:   No, no, it's been very successful though.   What they've done is they've been stressing to run to the ball, run to the ball.   They'll place the ball somewhere.   We run to the line, get the call, look up, see how we're supposed to lineup, and that's what it is.  
   
 Q.   The first couple times you guys did that, how did it impact you?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   The first time we did it, we had a week off prior to that, so it was difficult.   Now that we're starting to get more back into it, especially after about a month of prep, it's gone a lot better.  
   
 Q.   Is it just placing the ball?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, yeah.  
   
 Q.   So you don't know where it is at all?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, Yep, uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   Is it a lot better this year?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, it is.   It's really the only way to do it to get ready for these guys, because the Big Ten is more about time of possession and these guys are about scoring quickly.  
   
 Q.   What do you think about the last two teams, Auburn and Ohio State, did to play these guys to be successful?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think they had a lot of time to prepare for them.   Those are also two very talented teams.   But it's hard for us to say because we usually watch the most recent games of the season, so I couldn't tell you schematically what they did.   But one thing that probably benefited them was extra prep time.  
   
 Q.   Can you imagine being in mid October, would that be different?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, look what happened to Stanford this year.   They're a very talented team.  
   
 Q.   In terms of the pace though?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, they really struggled.   You watch teams in the middle of the year, and they just eventually it's funny watching them because when you watch our offense go against teams, you can see how they wear on them as the game progresses.   But this is in such a different fashion, that you see guys just winded and not able to really play anymore.  
   
 Q.   What gives you the confidence that you'll be able to be successful against a team with their power?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Just preparation.   We've played in big games before ask that's how we got here.   Just to continue to prepare and prepare to win.  
   
 Q.   Does having more time, more than a week help against a team like this?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think so.   I think first of all the pace which they run things that is extremely difficult.   Also the way they run things is slightly unorthodox, but they're good at what they do.   Having the extra time helps us out a lot.  
   
 Q.   Even in terms of conditioning and things like that?   Do they keep up with the tempo?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   That's what I mean.   As far as their pace, that's very important.  
   
 Q.   What about strategically?   Is it because they run so many weird different formations?   Does it give more eyeballs more time?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Absolutely.   But you also the thing with that is they can throw in new wrinkles after a month because we're preparing for what they did in the last 13 games.  
   
 Q.   Are you aware of the stat that Chip Kelly's six losses, and five teams have had more than a week to prepare?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I suppose, yeah.  
   
 Q.   I mean, that's a fact.   I don't know how much.   I mean, there are other big play teams.   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Well, I've never really looked at it that way.   But as far as I see it, it's nice to have extra time to prepare for this.  
   
 Q.   Is the pass down in Indianapolis‑‑ (Inaudible) I'm just curious do you view this differently win or lose?   You've been through this last time?  
PATRICK BUTRYM:   As far as this game goes?   Tonight, this would be a nice stamp on what we didn't finish last year.   But we made it here.   I don't think we're satisfied with making it here, especially after last year.   It was so disappointing last year that I think it actually affected us‑‑ a loss usually sticks with you for a few days.   But for a lot of us, that stuck with us for about a month.   
It still bothered us as we went through the off‑season, and just the experience we had out here last season was so great that we wanted to get back here to finish it, and do it right this time.  
   
 Q.   Are you sick?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Congested.   No, I'm fine.   I'm a little congested.  
   
 Q.   What do you see (Inaudible)?  
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Got to start standing up a little more, stop bending their knees.   Don't run to the ball as hard, not running to the ball as hard.   You've got to just break a big play and see it happen.  
   
 Q.   Is it more obvious (Inaudible)?  
PATRICK BUTRYM:   A game?   Not one game sticks out.   But you just see it happening.   Obviously the games that they won, the 12 games that they won you saw that or the 11 games that they won so.  
   
 Q.   Are you guys prepared for that?   That pace?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   We've been prepared for it for about a month now.   So I think we've done a very efficient job of doing it.   We've found a successful way to prepare for it to get the ball off as quickly as possible.   I think we've averaged, when we do well at pace in practice, probably close to eight or nine seconds.   It's pretty ridiculous.   
But the first time it happened, your mind is just you have white noise around you.   But now everything starts slowing down, and you start progressing things a little easier, and putting your hand in the dirt and playing the way you should.  
   
 Q.   You guys have been pretty successful at keeping teams down in the scoring column.   What have you done to be so successful?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think we're good at making adjustments.   I think we're a better second half team, especially throughout the year.   The number that's we've given up statistically in the second half have always been better than in the first.   
But in this game that can't be the case.   We need to start fast or we're going to dig ourselves a hole.   So that is extremely important for us.   I guess that is the point is to keep people out of the end zone.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that's what Auburn and LSU did for the most part is stop the Ducks early and get them out of their rhythm and not let the Ducks get up on them in the first half, which they've done to some teams?   Is that your goal to prevent that fast start by Oregon?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   You have to.   If they do that, then they can control the pace of the game.   So obviously we have a great offense that can keep the ball away from them and keep our defense off the field.   But while we're out there, we need to get stops.   They're a four‑down territory team, and we need to be prepared for that too.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, I did.   I don't expect that to happen.   I do remember watching it on TV, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What were your thoughts when you see that?   A lot of people said it was amusing?  
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Wasn't very good, I suppose.   I think we'll have efficient ways of substitution to prevent that instead of faking injuries.   I'll tell you that much.  
   
 Q.   Is there anybody that they resemble in terms of offensively whether it's schematically?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   No, not at all.   You have spread teams in the Big Ten, but nobody quite like what Oregon does.  
   
 Q.   Is a month enough time to prepare?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, it's plenty of time.  
   
 Q.   Is it?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, I think so.   I don't know how much more time you can get to be productive beyond that.  
   
 Q.   Aaron said that he kind of takes it personally that Wisconsin's being called a slow defense or slow football team.   Do you concur with that?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I suppose.   I really don't care what people's perceptions are.   We won 11 games this year and we're in the Rose Bowl for a reason.   We've been a part of that.  
   
 Q.   At Oregon, obviously they make a lot of stops and create a lot of turnovers and sacks and whatever with their defense.   They also play with a pretty good margin for error because of their offense.   Do you feel that too that, hey, we make key stops and get a few turnovers, we're going to win the game?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think so.   Absolutely.   That's what it comes down to.   Our offense can eat up the clock.   If you can capitalize on opportunities and create a turnover too and win that margin, you always have a chance to win.  
   
 Q.   How do you contain LaMichael?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I don't think you contain him.   I think you can do your best to‑‑ what is the word I'm looking for?   
   
 Q.   Slow him down?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Slow him down, I guess, yeah.   He's going to make plays.   That is part of the game.   They lead the nation in rushing.   I understand he'll make plays, but we need to limit those plays to make sure they're not big plays.  
   
 Q.   You guys have prepared to play against the snap.   Bret said sometimes they snap so fast that the refs sometimes aren't looking at the play.   What have you done to help you simulate the pace?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think we've tried to simulate the pace as best as we can.   I think our coach es have done a good job organizing it that way that we get the ball off in the same amount of time that they do, which I've been very impressed with.   
You'll have a group of guys with one coach, a group of guys with another coach.   Quarterbacks with one coach, and they'll send the personnel out to scream out a play and then the ball snaps.   That's, I think we've been pretty good at that?  
   
 Q.   Are you guys going to the Lakers game?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   When is that?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I don't know.   I don't know if I'm going to go.   
   
 Q.   Who decides?  
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I guess the coach decides.   You get 40 tickets and it starts with seniority.  
   
 Q.   What celebrity would you want to meet and what would you ask them?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I don't know if I really want to ask anybody anything.   I'm pretty content with just seeing the Lakers and Knicks and seeing Kobe and being in L.A.   I have simple tastes.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to the game tomorrow?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   Just part of the team's going to the game?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   How did coach‑‑ I mean, he can't get that many tickets.   But how did coach decide?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Seniority, leaving it up to the seniors and it trickles down.  
   
 Q.   How surprised and fun has it been out here as opposed to back home?   Are there differences?  
PATRICK BUTRYM:   It's just warmer, but other than that I don't see very many differences.  
   
 Q.   Is it faster at all now or is practice any shorter?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   No, not really.   No, just pretty standard game workout.  
   
 Q.   How has this trip compared to last year?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think we're used to things.   Every event we go to now is our second event doing it.   We enjoy it just as much and we know what to expect.   But as far as that goes, we have a lot more urgency in our preparation than last year just because of experience.   We value the experience and have fun when it's time to have fun.   But when it comes time to work, we're working.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible) just in your dealings with him, what's he meant to you or this program?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I've actually become pretty close with Aaron in the past year.   Just being a captain with him and taking on that leadership role along with him.   He kind of represents what the place is all about.   He's a first class guy.   I have a lot of respect for him.   
I'm glad things worked out the way it did so we all got to end in this together.   He's going to be really successful, I believe, in the NFL.   The hard work, he's been through a lot of adversity, but he's become what Wisconsin football is.  
   
 Q.   Can you highlight(Inaudible) ‑‑ Russell's said he's never had anybody call him that?  
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, we do call him the closer.   I don't know if you remember Mickey Turner, he was the other guy.   But he's so personable and so polite.   I'd never really met a person that doesn't like him.  
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you, a lot of guys have been talking about how you guys are kind of the underdogs in the point spread as compared to last season.   How do you embrace that?   Does it make a difference to you?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   You can play up the underdog role as much as you want.   We do know that people aren't giving us much of a chance in this one.   I embrace that.   I guess it makes it all the sweeter if you can pull off the victory.  
   
 Q.   One thing that I see after watching you guys practice is when you guys play the position is going into the same mentality every single game (Inaudible).   How would you maintain that?   You've been here your entire career.   Do guys buy into that or does it take time to buy into that?   What impact do you players have in passing that on to the younger guys?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Well, I mean, I guess our leadership styles are kind of passed down from us what we saw from our successful years when we were younger and just take notes on that.   But those guys lead by their own personality and go on to do what they want.   
But for the most part what's been passed on to us is successful, and that's why we've done it.   If they want to do it, they can.  
   
 Q.   Do you look at it as leaving a legacy especially with you four co‑captains and what you've accomplished this year?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Yeah, absolutely.   Back‑to‑back Rose Bowls, paralleling, I suppose, the highest of highs that the program has ever accomplished.   But, yeah, not much of a better legacy that we can leave going out of this game with a win.  
   
 Q.   How special is it for you being a Wisconsin guy?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I think growing up this is what I was familiar with.   The two Rose Bowls and the one in 1994.   Sorry, that's what I view Wisconsin football as, being allowed to accomplish this myself means a lot.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible) can you talk about the mindset this year?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I just said this year the goal is to win.   Preparing to win and preparing with urgency.   Not really concerned what the Vegas line is on this one.  
   
 Q.   Competition is a pretty big factor (Inaudible).   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I guess our offense is our best defense.   As long as they can keep the ball away from them, they can't score points, so knock on wood.   But that gives us time to rest.   It's just funny watching two different offenses and two different teams together.  
   
 Q.   Last year's Rose Bowl, you guys were technically underdogs and you played a good team.   But then you're kind of expected to win it.   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   You come away with a win no matter what when you're in the Rose Bowl.   You come away with something.  
   
 Q.   You don't relish the underdog role?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   I suppose you do a little bit, because if you win, it makes you feel a lot better about it.   But I think it's a great match‑up.   And I don't consider us underdogs in this one.   I think it's a very even match‑up.   I don't see anything overwhelming either way that makes me think anything differently.  
   
 Q.   Do you think most people are talking about Oregon?   
PATRICK BUTRYM:   Probably.   It doesn't really bother us, so...  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT