AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 13, 2019
Jake Marisnick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. AJ likes you out there in center field when Justin is on the mound. What do you think about the opportunity and getting the start and of course the situation you are in being down 1-0 in the series?
JAKE MARISNICK: I feel good. Feel prepared. Been able to get a lot of work in just chasing down fly balls and BP and stuff. Played behind Justin a few times, and he's one of the best in the game. To be out there behind him, I'm excited.
You mentioned we're down 1-0, but it's one game. There's a lot of games left to play.
Q. AJ referred to the fact you've had success against Paxton. Thoughts about that and the confidence that gives you going against him.
JAKE MARISNICK: Yeah, we've had a chance to face him quite a few times as a team and myself, personally. We have our approaches on him. We know what he likes to do. He's got good stuff but I think if we execute our plans we'll be all right.
Q. AJ has alluded to the fact that he doesn't really talk to Justin on days he pitches. Does anybody approach him on the days he pitches, and what is his demeanor like in that clubhouse before he takes the ball?
JAKE MARISNICK: He's locked in. He takes it serious. He does his homework. He staying focused on the game from the time he gets here to the time he steps on that mound until the time he gets done pitching.
You don't see that kind of focus a lot. And that's part of the reason why he's so good.
Q. Getting the offense going tonight, that's one of the keys. Hitting comes and goes, people will say, but I know you guys want it to go at all times. What's the thought process going into that?
JAKE MARISNICK: I mean, I think the biggest thing for us is just stringing the at-bats together. You saw that Game 5 against Tampa, where we strung them together early and got something going. That's something that's been kind of our biggest problem is not stringing at-bats together and working 1 through 9 in the lineup.
I think that's the thing we need to get going, is just staying within our approach and trying to pass it along to the next guy behind us.
Q. With the way Gerrit Cole has been pitching, is he even better now these two games in the postseason than even the great run he had during the last half of the year?
JAKE MARISNICK: I mean, that's a tough one to answer, because he was unbelievable down the stretch this year. Obviously what he did those last two games was nothing short of amazing. But I think anytime him, JV -- anytime these guys step on the mound we've got a chance to win. So I think we're pretty excited about that, having these two guys coming up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT