BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2017
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about the shot you hit left-handed from under the character tell us on the 2nd hole.
IN GEE CHUN: Yeah, it was very tough.  Originally I want try just normal shot, but big cactus (indiscernible) my ball, so I can't try this way.
I'm just think about unplayable, but I think I had chance to make out, so I try left-hand and then try good focus.
It was really good.  Just unluck because hit the cactus.
Q. Have you practiced that shot before?
IN GEE CHUN: Not many time, but I tried before, yeah.
Q. What hole was that?
IN GEE CHUN: No. 2.
Q. You got yourself out of trouble the though, right?  Okay.
IN GEE CHUN: I take off my rain jacket this morning so I don't have rain jacket so...
Q. Oh, really?
IN GEE CHUN: Yeah.  So I changed mind.  Just try left hand.
Q. Can you just summarize or sum up your day for us?  How was that the round?
IN GEE CHUN: I didn't not hit the ball well, but I stayed patience so I made good finish today.
Q. How do you like this style of golf where it's really make as many birdies as you can?  How do you like playing that way?
IN GEE CHUN: Course is really good here but just weather is very dry so all the players getting more distance.  Players more easier so we can try aggressive to the pin a little bit more.
Yeah.
Q. You're such a good putter.  You have to like this style in some ways because it gives you a lot of chances, right?  How much do you like a putting contest?
IN GEE CHUN: Putting contest?
Q. Yeah.  Do you like a course that gives you a lot of birdie opportunities?  Talk about that.
IN GEE CHUN: I try not many thinking before the shot this week, so before putter, and then it was make more good focus to me.
So I can made a lot of birdies last two days, so...
Q. Do you prefer this style of golf with a lot of birdies or U.S. Open style?
IN GEE CHUN: I don't know why it's many difference because all the putt is very new, so I feel like not many different.
Just try focus on my putter always.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT