THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2016
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: It is my pleasure to welcome in the winner of the 2016 Evian Championship, In Gee Chun, and doing it in major record fashion, In Gee.  I know you just said you were so nervous.  You had a four-shot lead going to the 18th green.  You shouldn't have been nervous.  How do those feelings feel walking down that fairway knowing that you were going to win this event?
IN GEE CHUN: I was so nervous after the third shot.  My caddie, David Jones, told me, In Gee, try and enjoy your walking, and then he said, you can try to make a par.  If you make the par, I buy the dinner.
THE MODERATOR: So you got the trophy and dinner.
IN GEE CHUN: Yes.
THE MODERATOR: Coming into today, let's talk about your game plan.  Did you have anything in particular that you wanted to stick to knowing that you had a four-shot lead coming into the last 18 holes?
IN GEE CHUN: I know 19-under par is tied record before the final round.  It was more pressure for me, but I tried to think about it as a really good experience.  I tried to more enjoy it.
THE MODERATOR: How much does that mean to you to get that record?  Do those records mean anything to you?  How important is that that you're going to have your name in the record books?
IN GEE CHUN: I don't know because I feel like I'm dreaming now.
THE MODERATOR: Let's talk about the playing conditions this morning.  How tough were they?  Everyone was watching and they saw how much rain was coming down.  How tough were they, and how did you stay in the moment and focus?
IN GEE CHUN: A lot of rain this morning, so on No. 2 and No. 3, some guys helped our play.  It was not good, but I really enjoyed this time because I'm the first time playing in many water on the green.  It was really fun.
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for some questions for In Gee.
Q. Did you know about the 21-under record before the tournament or before you started your final round?
IN GEE CHUN: Because I had interview after the third round, she told me, your 19-under par is low score.
THE MODERATOR: Who told you?
IN GEE CHUN: Amy Rogers.
Q. It looked like on the 18th, your drive, you took out a hybrid at first.  Were you thinking of hitting it, and then David told you not to hit it?  It was too risky?
IN GEE CHUN: Because the ball was on a good lie, and all the grain is to the hole, so I think about like can't make landing on the green.  But David told me the last two holes, last time my shots, my 5-iron shot carry number was almost 125, 130, so no chance, In Gee.  So I changed my mind.
Q. You won last year also a major, so do you think there is a comparison to make between your two wins?  Maybe it's too early to tell, but which one do you prefer?  Do you prefer this one because you break the record or do you prefer the first one because it was the first title?
IN GEE CHUN: Both championships were very important for me, so I just cannot compare or choose.
Q. How satisfying is this to you given what you had to overcome at the beginning of the year with the injury that bothered you for quite a while?  How good does this feel after that struggle?
IN GEE CHUN: After the injury I was going through the negative -- I just fell into the negative loophole and I couldn't get out, and my passion was very high, but my body was not working that way.  Due to all the fan support and fans' also criticism about that issue, too much criticism of it, I just couldn't even think about my injury at all because it's just going to flare up more and more.  So I just had to keep it quiet inside, but I had to go through all those hard times, not being able to mention anything about my injury and my hurt and pain.
But at the same time all the Korean media and the people were expecting me to play very well, but I couldn't meet their expectations at all.  So that was the toughest part for me.
So when the weather situation is not good, especially when it's very chilly, the pain seemed to come back.  Like today I had to wear the Duck Down dress to keep my body warm and also some hot patches inside.  This is for preventative purpose.
When I went to the cold places, I didn't feel very well, and my game seemed to disappear real quick.  But that's also what happened at the U.S. Women's Open.
Well, things can happen, and it's nobody's fault, it was just by mistake, and everything is cool.  It's all up to me, and it was just kind of tough to get out of that position, but I finally did.
Q. You made a great record today; what is the next goal as an LPGA member?
IN GEE CHUN: That's a very tough question.  Originally my goal was play in the Olympics, yeah.  But I made my first win as an LPGA member.  I'm so happy right now, so just talked to my team and my mom and dad, and we think about the new goal after this time.
Q. When you say you were feeling negative before, on the negative side, is it because you were angry about what happened with your injury, with the circumstances of what happened?
IN GEE CHUN: It was not because of my injury, but it was an inner struggle, and it was going around and on again, so it was difficult for me to get out of that situation.  I got my passion back at the Olympics.  Golf had become fun.
THE MODERATOR: How fun was this, very fun?
IN GEE CHUN: Yes.
Q. In Gee, yesterday you told us that you needed to feel the pressure, to feel pressure not to be bored on the course.  Today you were not bored at all, right?
IN GEE CHUN: Yeah, exactly.  Without nerves, I feel bored.  Nothing, bored.  I had a lot of pressure on the course, but I much enjoyed my game.  I tried my best to keep to my game plan possibly, I think so I might win this time.
Q. What does it mean to you to have two of the top players in the world, quite a gathering for a rookie, but I guess everyone out here just loves you.  What did that mean to have that celebration on 18?
IN GEE CHUN: It was always an honor for me because everybody helped me and everybody helped other players.  We play and feel comfortable on the course and everything, so thanks so much.
Q. What will you pick for dinner?
IN GEE CHUN: I don't know, because my caddie David Jones buy dinner, so maybe --
Q. You get to pick.
IN GEE CHUN: He can pick any expensive one.  Any good ideas you have?  We'll try any good restaurant tonight.
Q. The biggest legend Se Ri Pak is from Korea and leaving the game this year.  Do you have any comment for it?
IN GEE CHUN: No this week, but she's so many tips gave me at the Olympics.  It was really good help for me.
THE MODERATOR: Again, congratulations on your second major championship victory.  Enjoy this moment.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT