THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2016
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a wonderful performance, 19-under par, a fantastic lead.  How were you feeling out there today?  
IN GEE CHUN: I had one double bogey on No. 9.  I tried to come back with my game, and I made one more eagle on 15, so I had a great round today.   
 Q.  What did you tell yourself when you had the double bogey on 9 because you did bounce very very impressively.  What did you tell yourself?  
IN GEE CHUN: I didn't make the bogey putt, but it was a really good putt.  I think like just let it go.   
 Q.  Tell us about your eagle on the 15th.  
IN GEE CHUN: My eagle today was 20 yards.  I tried really good visualize.   
 Q.  I'm not sure if you noticed but 19-under par is a record winning score in a major.  Currently you are 19-under.  Are you thinking of breaking the record?  
IN GEE CHUN: It is a really big honor for me, but I just have to stick with my game plan.   
 Q.  And a four-shot lead going into the final round of a major.  You have led going into a final round of a KLPGA major but never in an LPGA major.  What will be your game plan tomorrow?  
IN GEE CHUN: My game plan is always the same because I always try not to think about leading.  That is because it becomes difficult to enjoy my own game.   
 Q.  Were you surprised how big your lead had gotten, 19-under?  Were you aware of how much you led as the day was going?  
IN GEE CHUN: I tried to focus on my game because I know all the players are really good players, so just keep -- I try to keep going on my game.  I had one double bogey on No. 9, so I tried to just let it go and just trust my game, and then I had a really good eagle on No. 15.   
 Q.  How long do you think the putt was?  
IN GEE CHUN: On the eagle, it's not putt, it's a chip.  17 yards?  The pin was on the very top.  It was a pretty tough hole.  I think I made a really good second shot, and then third shot was -- because I tried really good to visualize my third shot.   
 Q.  You've had a lot of second and third-place finishes this year.  You've been in contention a lot.  Did you feel pressure to try to win one?  Were you getting impatient to try to win?  What was your feeling about that?  
IN GEE CHUN: It was really good experience for me, and then the thing I have more confidence, and then I got my passion back in the Olympics.   
 Q.  Why?  
IN GEE CHUN: Because it was my big goal this year, and then I made it.   
 Q.  Your goal?  
IN GEE CHUN: Yeah, this year.  I had a really good time in the Olympics.   
 Q.  Did you learn anything from Se Ri at the Olympics?  
IN GEE CHUN: I watch her play from very close.  I have a lot more to learn.   
 Q.  Does breaking the record mean anything to you?  19-under for the women, 20-under for the men at a major?  
IN GEE CHUN: I think it's a really good honor for me.  I'm happy because I try to more enjoy my game because it makes more pressure for me.  With all the nervousness and pressure, I can play more good.  That is why majors are more fun and I tend to play better.   
 Q.  You like the pressure?  
IN GEE CHUN: Yes, because no pressure, I feel boring.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT