THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2016
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  8-under, very good.  How do you feel about your round?  
IN GEE CHUN: Before the round I felt really nervous today, and it was windy, and there was a thunderstorm this morning, so I tried more focus on my game.   
I could see the putting lines very well, and I was so good rolling the ball on those lines.  And then I played with Ariya.  I'm always happy to play with Ariya because she's so nice, and I played with Julia today.  She's so sweet.  Thanks to them for making me feel comfortable.   
 Q.  How did the weather affect the round early on?  When did the rain stop?  Did it rain at all?  
IN GEE CHUN: First hole getting better.   
 Q.  So it didn't rain much?  
IN GEE CHUN: Yeah, didn't rain much.   
 Q.  So you played here last year.  
IN GEE CHUN: Mm-hmm.   
 Q.  Missed the cut?  
IN GEE CHUN: Yes.   
 Q.  What did you learn from last year that helped your performance here today?  
IN GEE CHUN: Yeah, it was not a good finish last year.  But I know this course; it's very tough greens.  But I think the greens are more getting softer this year.  With more rain, they're more softer, so everything is getting more easier.  And then just try to set my mind, enjoy the weather, enjoy in France.   
 Q.  You are in France, awesome.  I want to ask you about you playing really well recently.  The past three events, top 10s.  How do you feel about your game?  Have you been working on anything?  You've been in good form.  
IN GEE CHUN: After the Rio Olympics, my goal has become fun again.   
 Q.  Have fun?  
IN GEE CHUN: Yeah.   
 Q.  How has that worked?  How do you try to have more fun?  
IN GEE CHUN: I don't know why, but just getting more fun.  I think Rio is a really good experience for me.   
 Q.  What about today that was particularly good that you want to hopefully do again tomorrow?  Putting, ball-striking, hitting the fairways?  
IN GEE CHUN: Maybe putting, yeah.   
 Q.  How many putts did you have?  
IN GEE CHUN: I don't know.   
 Q.  Not many.  You had 24 going into 18.  Was the Olympics a different experience?  You said you kind of changed after that.  
IN GEE CHUN: With the national flag on, it was really more pressure for me.  But always pressure; it's a good experience.  I love pressure, and I remember my game.  I played pretty well under the pressure.  So it was good.   
 Q.  You play well under pressure, and yet you were nervous before you started today?  
IN GEE CHUN: I don't know why, but I'm just a little nervous, so try to more focus on my game.   
 Q.  Is it because it was a major or because of this course?  
IN GEE CHUN: I think because it's the last major.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT