U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2016
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR: Good morning, everyone.  My name is Mike Trostel.  I am the museum director at the United States Golf Association.  Welcome to CordeValle for the 71st U.S. Open.  I'd like to welcome In Gee Chun.  Last year In Gee shot a final round 66, highlighted by birdies at 15, 16 and 17 at Lancaster Country Club to claim the U.S. Women's Open title.  Her 72-hole total of 272 tied the U.S. Women's Open scoring record.   
In Gee, looking back, tell us what do you remember fondly about the championship last year.   
IN GEE CHUN: I had great memories at the U.S. Women's last year.  My shot was great, the last round.  And my coach talked to me during the last round, so I tried to enjoy my game.   
MODERATOR: It certainly was a great final round performance.  You've won a lot around the world, eight times last year.  But this was on the world's biggest stage at the Women's.  Did that win give you a boost of confidence over the past year?   
IN GEE CHUN: Yes, so close.  Absolutely.  The win at the U.S. Women's Open last year was my dream come true.  And since my dream came true, my dream has continued to come true again and again, and this year has been great.   
MODERATOR: This year, no wins, but already five top 3 finishes this year, including a runner-up at the ANA Inspiration.  How would you characterize your season thus far for 2016?   
IN GEE CHUN: I think I'm doing very well this season.  If I continue to be like this, since this is a very long season, I'll come up with something really great.  I'm looking forward to it.   
MODERATOR: You said you played CordeValle a little bit yesterday.  How would you describe the course so far, having seen it?   
IN GEE CHUN: I played 18 holes yesterday.  They're different, tough challenge at the 18 hole.  So I am still in the research process today.   
 Q.  You came from behind to win last year on Sunday, but this year you're the defending champion.  Can you talk about the different type of pressure or goals you have coming into this year's U.S. Women's Open?  
IN GEE CHUN: It is really great to be the defending champion.  And I think it is the happiest thing to be the defending champion of the U.S. Women's Open.   
I'm looking forward to this tournament.  And looking at my past career, I've played very well under pressure.  So I'm going to enjoy this pressure.  I'm looking forward to my play this week.   
 Q.  Are you a hundred percent healthy now?  Do you have any lingering effects from the incident?  
IN GEE CHUN: I'm fine.  I would say about 99 percent perfect.  When it gets cold, I get stiff, but it's not a problem at all.  I'm physically and mentally perfectly fine.   
 Q.  Se Ri Pak saying good-bye to this Championship and retiring.  As a young Korean star, what does Se Ri Pak mean to you and to your fellow younger Korean players?  
IN GEE CHUN: She's a hero to all the Korean players.  Her U.S. Open win was motivating factors to all the Korean junior players and parents.  Thanks to her win at the U.S. Open, all the Korean juniors and players have come this far so far.  And all the Korean golfing industry has grown a lot, and it's all thanks for her great career on the LPGA Tour.   
MODERATOR: I'll ask one about the Olympics.  In addition to the regular schedule of events this year, golf is part of the summer Olympics.  And you're currently sitting 6th in the Olympic rankings.  Are you excited to potentially represent your country in Rio this year.   
IN GEE CHUN: It is such a huge honor to be an Olympian.  I'm aware that there are a lot of concerns regarding health issues and security issues, but to be able to play at the Olympics is the biggest achievement and honor.  So if I get a chance to play at the Olympics, I'll do my best.   
MODERATOR: Last year your fans were out in full force, The Flying Dumbos.  Will they be out here again at the CordeValle?   
IN GEE CHUN: This is the first defending event in the U.S., so there are many Flying Dumbo fans that are going to be here for this week.  I've always enjoyed playing at the tournaments with their support.   
I have a fan cafe, what is called a fan cafe, that is a mobile based fan group, it's a members only fan group.  Every time I make a birdie, they make a one dollar donation to the fan cafe, and they collect all the money.  And at the end of the season, I make a payment to match their amount in able to put the money together.  And we are going to use the money for those who are in need of it.  So each and every time I face a birdie opportunity, it is a very precious opportunity for me.   
More people and more fans are going to pay attention to this event.  So each and every shot is very important to me.  So I am not going to just bypass any shot.  Each and every shot I'm going to focus on.   
MODERATOR: We'll be rooting for a lot of birdies this week.  8:39 a.m. off the first tee on Thursday.  In Gee Chun, best of luck this week.   
IN GEE CHUN: Thank you very much.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT