LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 15, 2016
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'll get started.  Thank you for joining us.  We have In Gee Chun.  In Gee, what's been the key to your a great turnaround today?
IN GEE CHUN: Today I make eagle at 11.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Going back to yesterday and the way you finished the round, how much confidence did that give you going into today's as round and your hot start today?
IN GEE CHUN: I think the first half of the 18, first nine, I didn't particularly play well.  With eagle in the back nine I started again being a lot more confident.  I think that really helped me play a better round today.
Q. What did you hit in on the hole where you made eagle and how long was the putt?
IN GEE CHUN: Was 230 yards.  I believe I hit my 3-wood control.  And putt was 20 feet.
Q. What would it mean to you to play in the Olympics this year?
IN GEE CHUN: (In English.)  I do not desire to play the Olympics.  I used to want but not anymore.
That is because I know there are many great Korean players with great experience.
(Through translation.)  It's not necessarily my goal to play in the Olympics.  Now, it used to be, but there are so many great Korean players today that I don't want to make that my goal.
If an opportunity comes to me that I'm able to participate, I'm definitely looking forward to doing that.  I definitely want to play in the Olympics if the opportunity comes.
I mean, I think if I continue to play the way I am and prepare well I think I'll have that opportunity, even if it's not this time.  Next time.  So I'll continue to prepare the way that I can.
Q. How has your rookie season been on tour?  How have you enjoyed being on tour and playing in America?
IN GEE CHUN: It's been a lot of fun.  I think a lot of the players have been welcoming me and very kind to me, so it's been a fun rookie season so far.
My first time playing in Hawaii, and because of the LPGA I get to play in a lot of different countries and towns that I have never been to.  It's just been a lot of fun and I've been enjoying the ride so far.
Q. There is a chance you could be in this the final grouping with Su-Yeon Jang.  What is your relationship with her?  Do you know her pretty well?
IN GEE CHUN: Su-Yeon Jang and I were both part of the Korean National Team together and went to the same high school together as well.  She's a great player.
Unfortunately, she hasn't had a lot of luck with winning tournaments in the past.  When she won the Lotte Ladies Open last week I was really happy and genuinely happy to see her win a tournament.
I think more and more experience she gains, obviously winning a tournament and playing well this year, I think she's going to continue to play very well.
I'm happy and excited I might have the opportunity to be paired up with her tomorrow.
Q. How is your condition in your back?
IN GEE CHUN: I think I would like to say I am about 90% of where I should be.  Doesn't necessarily impact my swing.  Doesn't hurt when I'm swinging.  Just if I'm sitting for a long time it does hurt a little bit.
I think the last couple days I did feel a little bit of pain, so hopefully I'll look into that today and get ready for tomorrow.
I think it's getting better slow by slow.  Little by little it's definitely getting better.  I think the doctor told me there is a memory effect in the injury, so it's going to get better, but at the moment, yeah, I'm feeling a little bit.
I think the only way that I need to work on this is continue to work on it.  Then because of the problem that I have, it has sort of impacted my left big toe.
Last week my physical therapist was at the ANA Inspiration helping me out.  We're working through NKP treatment that's sort of related to the nerve treatment.
I'll continue to do that and just need to prepare better and work on what I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT