ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2016
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Birdie finish; how big is that?  Were you watching the leaderboard to see where you needed to be?  How big was the birdie?  
IN GEE CHUN: I did not watch the scoreboard, so just my focus on my game.   
 Q.  You didn't look at the leaderboard all day?  
IN GEE CHUN: Yeah.  I always do it that way.   
 Q.  That's impressive.  That's good.  What about the position that you have now going into tomorrow?  You have to be very happy.  
IN GEE CHUN: Tomorrow I'm just going to focus on my game again.   
 Q.  I know you didn't have many expectations coming into this week because you took time off and you weren't playing, but how pleased are you with how quickly you've been able to play so well on a hard course?  How happy are you with that or surprised?  Are you surprised how well you've played?  
IN GEE CHUN: I'm very happy to be here on the grass, and secondly, I'm so happy to show my good play and good scores to all the fans out here.  Thirdly, so many fans were following me and cheering me, and it was very nice to get their support, and I was very glad to show them very good play.  That becomes another motivation for me, so I'm looking forward to it.   
 Q.  You've showed you can play so well in the final round of a major championship.  We saw it at the U.S. Women's Open.  Are you going to rely on that experience just to play relaxed?  How much will that week help you going into tomorrow?  
IN GEE CHUN: Every time I play golf out here at the tournament site, I become just joyful.  I enjoy it.  Especially during this week, there are so many people out here, and to be able to play with so many people around, it's another very happy stuff I can enjoy.  Here there are so many spectators out there; without those we do not exist here at all.  I really appreciate it, and I'm going to enjoy it a lot.   
 Q.  There were huge galleries at Lancaster, as well, at the U.S. Women's Open.  Do you play better in front of big crowds do you think?  
IN GEE CHUN: I think the reason why I'm playing golf is I can react to all those screams to support me.  At the same time sometimes I'm excited, as well, and I enjoy those two different stuff, as well, and that's why I exist.  I love it.   
 Q.  What do you think you'll have to do tomorrow to win?  What's going to be the key to play well?  
IN GEE CHUN: There's so many things that I need to win this tournament, and there are so many variables, but at the same time, there are so many variables that I cannot control at all.  The only thing I can control is my mindset, my mental game, myself, so I'm going to work on that.   
 Q.  Have you watched any past champions jump into the pond?  Have you seen the jumps before?  
IN GEE CHUN: I grew up watching so many players jump into the pond, and given the way I've played at the 18th hole, that small pond looks so attractive, and I feel like jumping in there, too.  Before I finish my career, I definitely want to jump in there.   
 Q.  If you win, what will the jump look like, cannonball, jump, regular?  Have you thought about it?  
IN GEE CHUN: I'd love to tumble in, but it's pretty shallow, so it's going to be risky, dangerous.  I'll think about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT