ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2016
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good round again.  How happy are you to be in this position?
IN GEE CHUN: I've not played with Yani before today.  She's not only great player, but a great person.
Q. Is that the first time you played with Yani?
IN GEE CHUN: Yeah.
Q. How much does having won an LPGA major already, how much does having won the U.S. Women's Open, help you here?
IN GEE CHUN: Every moment I enjoyed my game.  My focus is just enjoy my game, focus.
Q. How much did winning the U.S. Open when you did win it, you didn't seem surprised.  That was your first major.  Would you expect to win this week?  Do you come in expecting to have a chance to win?
IN GEE CHUN: I didn't play a round for the last four weeks and this is my first tournament returning.  I'm thankful for the fact that I'm playing again in a major on a big stage.  I'm just thankful to be playing well.
Q. What is the treatment that you're having done on your back after the round or before the round?
IN GEE CHUN: My trainer lives here in the U.S.
He's watching my game.
Q. Is he from Korea?
IN GEE CHUN: No, he's the chief trainer at the fitness center here at Mission Hills.  She's in charge of body conditioning and physical training as well.  So he's watching me for a long, long time.  And after going through all the treatments he's focusing on the NKT, Neuro Kinesiology, NKT.  That's what he's doing for me every day.
Q. You hired him for this week?
IN GEE CHUN: Not only this week but before.
Q. You were working with him before?
IN GEE CHUN: In the off-season.  After I got all the treatments from the acupuncture and laser treatment on my back, I felt pretty good, but something was missing so I came over here and Dr. Mark Smith looked at me and NKT trainer, and found out that after my back got screwed up, the muscles got screwed up, the big toe was not moving properly.  I could not raise my big toe at all, and we found the reason why and touched the muscle to make it activated.  Since then I've felt much better and I'll continue to work on that for a month or two.
Q. How are your nerves doing TV in English compared to nerves on the golf course?
IN GEE CHUN: This is more (laughing).
Q. Have you been working on your English a lot since the U.S. Women's Open?
IN GEE CHUN: Well.
Q. Yes, you have.  You've gotten so much better.
IN GEE CHUN: (Inaudible).
Q. Did you practice last night?
IN GEE CHUN: Yes.
Q. How are you adjusting to life being a rookie on Tour?
IN GEE CHUN: About three years ago I was in (Indiscernible) and on LPGA Tour.  I had some experience at that time and enjoyed all the new environment.  I came to the new stage and made a lot of new friends.  That made it fun and I'm enjoying it.  So I'm back to my rookie status and I'm enjoying it a lot.
Q. What was it like not being able to play three events?  What was that time away from the game like?  Were you really hungry to get back out here?
IN GEE CHUN: I missed the tournament a lot.  And I was just training and back and forth in the game so it was kind of depressing.  So I've been missing the grass a lot.
Q. Do you watch the tournaments at all on TV or no?
IN GEE CHUN: No.
Q. Would you be a little too jealous?
IN GEE CHUN: During the time I had injury treatments back in Korea, I was so depressed and I lost my appetite and motivation.  Once I got here, I began to get my motivation back.
Q. When you got here, did you eat more?
IN GEE CHUN: Yes.
Q. The competition to make the Korean Olympic team is so intense.  Were you worried that you were falling behind when you weren't able to play?
IN GEE CHUN: No, because I do not desire to play at the Olympics.  That I know because there are many great Korean players.
Q. I do not deserve to play at the Olympic Games because I know there are so many great Korean players who have great experience.  So I think they deserve the first round to play at the Olympic Games.  But just in case I get the opportunity to play at the Olympic Games, I'll enjoy it.  But at this moment I'm just so happy to be back at the tournament?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT