RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 28, 2015
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Is this your first time in the Women's British Open, or have you played before? 
INGEE CHUN: First time. 

Q. And what do you think of playing links golf in Britain? A little bit different? 
INGEE CHUN: It is absolutely different from the other golf courses that I usually play, but I have some experiences playing at the links course at different locations. And one example is the so‑called new course at Grand Cypress Golf Club in Orlando, Florida.

Q. But maybe the weather conditions are a little bit different here? 
INGEE CHUN: The weather condition could be about the same because we go there usually in January and February and when it's usually very chilly and windy, we are out there. So when it's calm, it's not that difficult. But when the weather changes, it's tough and it changes the whole situation. So I have experience already there. 

Q. And what do you think, do you like the challenge? Is it something that you think, I like this, it's different to what you normally do or do you think this is hard, this is very hard? 
INGEE CHUN: I'm the type of a player who tries to push myself at something new every time. I enjoy trying something new and enjoy eating something new, being at a different place, that kind of stuff. So I'm very looking forward to this new situation. 

Q. And have you played the whole course already? 
INGEE CHUN: I played 18 holes yesterday, nine just now. So played nine holes and walked just the other nine holes. 

Q. And when did you arrive in Scotland? 
INGEE CHUN: Yesterday morning. 

Q. And where are you staying, in the hotel? 
INGEE CHUN: Cottage at Brunston Castle.

Q. Have you eaten out? Have you had any Scottish experiences yet? 
INGEE CHUN: Countryside. 

Q. Do you like the kilts and the bagpipes? Is it your first time seeing? Do you think it's amazing? 
INGEE CHUN: Yeah.

Q. Being that this is your first British Open, how are you approaching it differently to how you approached the U.S. Open, which was a fantastic win? How is your confidence coming in here having won a major?
INGEE CHUN: Since I won major tournaments in Japan and the US, and Korea last week, all this happened within a span of two months. In the last month, everybody has cheered for me and everybody was happy about it and everybody was excited to see that event, my achievement. Korea is crazy about me right now, and so now I'm here in Scotland, so everyone is looking forward to me playing here. Everybody will probably stay up all night watching this event, so I'm really looking forward to it as well.

Q. So you're feeling a lot of support back in Korea?
INGEE CHUN: A lot of support and confidence, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT