U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2015
In Gee Chun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Terrific play, making a move on moving day?IN GEE CHUN: This is my first U.S. Open and I just wanted to enjoy this competition as much as possible.  I was paired with Karrie Webb today and she has turned pro when I was four.  So she was such a legend to me, it was a great honor to play with her today.  I enjoyed it a lot.  It was a great round today.Q. When it gets to tomorrow it's not going to be about who you played with and having fun, it's going to be about the U.S. Open and having a chance to win it.  Is that a daunting thing?  Is that something you're looking forward to?  Talk about that a little bit.IN GEE CHUN: Everything I experience here, it is new, completely new.  So this is an adventure to me. So tomorrow it's going to be the same thing.  Everything is going to be very fun.  I just want to be enjoying every bit of the time and I just enjoyed a lot of fan support here.  Fans were great here.  So if I keep doing this, enjoying every moment of the playing time, the result will just come automatically.  I don't care about the result in advance, I will just enjoy every time of the shot.Q. How did the course play today?IN GEE CHUN: Today I could sense the major setting of the course and the rough is tough.  The rough is growing. Today my shots were not as good as the first two days, but I tried to manage it.  I tried to be thinking always.  Golf is a percentage game, so I tried to be on the more safer side and tried to survive.  And I enjoyed it a lot.  And then again, I felt this is a major, I enjoyed it a lot.Q. Speaking of a percentage game, we hear that you're a mathematical genius, does that help you in golf?IN GEE CHUN: It is very difficult to comment on that because golf, as far as I know, as far as I experience, I play better when I respond to my instinct rather than thinking logically.  So the more I think about playing golf, the more I get in trouble.  So I try to stay with my instinct.  So maybe that could be an answer to your question.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT