NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: BRAVES v DIAMONDBACKS
October 17, 2001
Bob Welch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You played with Fernando Valenzuela and Dave Stuart.  How does Curt's performance in post-season rate with those guys? 

BOB WELCH:  Well, I tell you what, it's pretty phenomenal because most of the times we had a little more run support in a few games.  I know that Stu pitched a couple times and Fernando as well and won the World Series.  We ended up winning 5-4.  When you have a competitor like that and a mental discipline that they have, it's pretty special.  I mean, Curt won 2, 3 games there; one against the Dodgers; two in the playoffs .  Pretty phenomenal.  You tip your hat to him.  I really enjoyed watching it and got a chance to be a part of it as well. 


Q.  This is somewhat of a new experience for you.  How has it gone?  How much have you enjoyed it?

BOB WELCH:  Well, you know, it has ups, downs.  But at the same time you kind of take home some of the things that people don't have success a little bit more than they do victories.  You kind of go right into the next boat.  When you have a victory, when you have a loss or something, I find my emotions kind of hanging on with the guy who pitched or didn't have the success that he wanted to but I think that goes with the management part.  Pitching coach part, bench coach, whatever it may be, where you feel you have the most significant part to the team.  You know, you really respect and appreciate the managers that you've had that now that you see at the Major League level how difficult it can be day in, day out.


Q.  Given some of your roots in Oakland, were you emotionally invested in that series and were you disappointed at the results? 

BOB WELCH:  Sure, sure.  I was pulling for the A's a little bit more than the Yankees, no doubt about that.  There's some special times we had up there and as well as against the St. Louis Cardinals.  I had a chance to take my son Riley over there to show him both aspects of what happens in Major League Baseball when one side won when we're over here having a blast.  I wanted him to go over there and meet Tony LaRussa again because he hadn't seen him for a long time and see what it's like on the other side.  He had that experience.  I was pulling for the A's.  I was pulling for Tony at times they didn't play us.  So a lot of friends who are still playing baseball, but, yeah, I had a lot of interest in the A's.  A lot of interest. 


Q.  You were a power-pitcher yourself.  How much does that help you when you're dealing with Curt and Randy and their thought process? 

BOB WELCH:  Well, I was a power-pitcher but I sure didn't seem to get as distant in the game as they did.  So I really don't have a whole bunch to share with them as far as what happens late in the playoffs, as far as my experience.  But their power seems to be a little bit further than what I had.  I threw the baseball hard for maybe four, five years or something like that.  But those are two special people.  They have incredible stuff.  I mean, you forget - I do at times  - that Randy's not 31 years old doing what he does and at the top of the level that he does.  It's really special to see how he's really disciplined himself to get in that position to win that Game 2-0.  Because in the past he's had some difficulty where we haven't supported him with a whole bunch of runs.  And as well the other night.  But he welcomes that opportunity now to go out and win.  I don't think he gets as concerned about the run support as he has in the past.  He's out there to do one thing.  You ask him, and he says, you know, "When you want me to pitch, I'll be ready."


Q.  For those of us who haven't seen a lot of Damian Miller, what role does he have in the success Curt and Randy have had? 

BOB WELCH:  Well, I think if you watch Damian last night, he buried pretty much every pitch that was in the dirt and controlled it all throughout the game where any time you have a catcher that you work together the way Curt and Damian does, the way Randy and Damian does, or whoever the pitcher may be, it's really special.   Catchers have been a part of my life till this day.  You take a look at our manager and bench coach, they're both catchers.  It's a very special position and always seems to be one where teams that get deep in the playoffs have an excellent receiver back there.  We do with Damian and another one with Rod Barajas.  Those guys work together really well.  


Q.  Curt says he hopes to do at age 38 and 39 what Clemens is doing now.  Do you think he has the ability both mentally and physically to do so?

BOB WELCH:  Sure he does.  You don't get to the level where they're at now at 33, 34, without putting in a lot of time.  That has nothing to with throwing a baseball.  Curt puts as much time preparing himself for a ball game as anybody that I ever participated with.  So given that opportunity, with health, I'm sure if it comes from his effort, he'll get that chance. 


Q.  Can you talk about the difference in your approach with Curt and Randy and the rest of the team and the time you put in with them, the psychological stuff you have to do, how the rest of the staff reacts to the attention those two guys get. 

BOB WELCH:  Well, you know, we're kind of together as a group.  Not only do you have a pitching coach but as well you have a lot of experience in Randy.  You have a lot of experience in Curt.  Mike Morgan, Bobby Witt, a lot of people, Todd Stottlemyre around here.  Guys that we kind of draw off and work as a group.  You take a look at a couple guys not on our list, Troy Brohawn and Erik Sabel, who were in  -- I think Troy's in 60 games and Eric was in 41.  I mean, there's a significant part that we thought in spring training that at some point throughout the course of the season, don't matter what number you are, whether you think you're No. 1 or No. 10, that there's going to come a time when your part is as important as Randy's or Curt's is.  As long as we can be on a friendship where if there's something that's bothering us that we talk about it, get it out in the open and share those things.  Each guy tries to look in to help each pitcher at that particular point prior to the game and maybe when he's gotten involved in the game.  It just doesn't come from Randy or Curt.  They kind of set an example by the way they go about their own business.  But as well they're always open to talk.  We ask questions, we kind of share in what ways we could help out each individual, what would make them a better pitcher.    


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT