SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: ALABAMA VS GEORGIA
November 26, 2018
Elijah Holyfield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll start with Elijah Holyfield.   
ELIJAH HOLYFIELD: Elijah Holyfield, running back, University of Georgia.  Excited to be back in the SEC Championship and excited to have a chance to defend the SEC title.   
 Q.  Elijah, what seemed to come together the last three, four games, both the running and the game and the passing game?  Do you feel you all made a steady improvement ever since the LSU game, and are in the place you want to be going into the championship game Saturday?  
ELIJAH HOLYFIELD: Yes, sir.  After that bye week we kind of refocused on ourselves and went back to the basics and went back to work.  And ever since then we've been clicking a little bit higher.  And I think it's come from a lot of guys getting more experience, and everybody just kind of figuring each other out and playing together better.   
 Q.  How would you describe the evolution of your offensive line this season?  
ELIJAH HOLYFIELD: A lot of guys went down.  But we were very deep at the offensive line.  It's one of our strongest positions on the team.  So all the other guys who stepped up this year came in and did a really good job, has made it almost as if the 1 line's been in there the whole time.  But everybody who stepped in so far has just done really great.   
 Q.  How do you think your offensive line matches up with Alabama's defensive front?  
ELIJAH HOLYFIELD: Offensive line is big and strong.  And I think we'll be fine.   
 Q.  Going back to your offensive line, outside of them being big and strong, why do they match up well with Alabama's defensive front?  
ELIJAH HOLYFIELD: You know, I just think with Coach Pittman and the way he's coached them and the talent, I think we feel like our offensive line matches up well versus anybody's.   
 Q.  And when you have seen film of Alabama, what do they do well up front?  
ELIJAH HOLYFIELD: They have really good players.  It's not one person who you can really key on a lot of times because all of them are so good.  So I would just say how physical they are and how they get off blocks.   
 Q.  You have a penchant inside the 5 of diving for the pylon and extending your body to get across it and you've done that well all year.  Is that something you started in high school ball, or did you just really perfect that more at Georgia here?  
ELIJAH HOLYFIELD: I really didn't dive that much in high school.  But it's just whenever I see an opportunity to get in the end zone, I try to get in the best I can while keeping the ball safe.   
 Q.  And following up on that you and D'Andre Swift have really complemented each other well.  Do you like that idea of both of you getting 16, 17 carries each, and not putting all the burden on one man like they used to with Herschel Walker or something?  
ELIJAH HOLYFIELD: Yeah, I enjoyed it a lot more.  Keeps me fresh the whole year, fresh the whole game.  And it's a chance for two really good players to play.   
 Q.  I want to get your take on Tyson Campbell.  How early on did you guys realize that he had the potential to help you guys this season?  And just how impressive has it been with what he's been able to do as a true freshman with you guys?  
ELIJAH HOLYFIELD: When he came in, he worked a little bit different than everybody else.  He's always been a hard worker.  He's always been eager to watch extra film and always staying after, putting the extra work in.  We saw from an early point that he was going to be pretty good.   
When the pass came on and everything, he kind of really took the spot, went to go play.  So I've been really excited for him, really excited for his future.   
 Q.  What stands out about him skill set-wise?  Is it the speed and athleticism that really sticks out?  
ELIJAH HOLYFIELD: Yeah, for sure.  He's so fast.  He's a long guy.  And he's not afraid to tackle, too.  So I know that's something I really respect.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT