AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 31, 2009
Yuki Bhambri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Y. BHAMBRI/A. Georgoudas
  6-3, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You're the first Indian to win the Australian Open juniors. How does that make you feel?   
 YUKI BHAMBRI: Winning the Australian Open is obviously a very gig achievement, regardless of being the first Indian. I mean, that's actually news to me. But I dreamed of winning it, and it's come true.   
  
  Q. How was it to play on the big court today?   
 YUKI BHAMBRI: Well, I was actually quite nervous in the beginning. That was the first time actually playing on such a huge stadium. I actually got to thank Craig for it. I mean, you don't get opportunities like this to play.   
 As the game and match progressed I felt much comfortable over there.  
  
  Q. What's the difference playing such a big court as opposed to some other courts?  
 YUKI BHAMBRI: I think the crowd's always backing you up. You're quite motivated to do well on these courts. You obviously enjoy playing in front of a lot of people.   
  
  Q. Sometimes are the dimensions a problem?   
 YUKI BHAMBRI: Not really, no. Because, I mean, you're kind of used to playing -- you've played so much tennis. But these small adjustments don't make much of a difference.   
  
  Q. What was your plan before you went into the match?   
 YUKI BHAMBRI: Well, actually I hadn't seen or heard of him before. But, I mean, I knew a little bit about him. I had seen him play yesterday in the semis, so I knew a bit about him.   
 I just wanted to focus on my game. I knew it was a big match, so whoever probably put more balls in the court would probably win the match. That was my aim, and to try and cut down unforced errors.  
  
  Q. You played through some pretty hot conditions here this week. Did that affect you at all in the final?  
 YUKI BHAMBRI: Actually, no. It affected me more in the semis. I was kind of drained out in the semis match and I had to go and play doubles. Being an Indian, in this way it's kind of helpful. You can't really get used to the heat, but you're playing in similar conditions.   
  
  Q. Because you won this now, are you going to switch out of junior tennis? What impact is this going to have on your career?  
 YUKI BHAMBRI: Even if I wouldn't have won it, I had already planned to focus more on men's tournaments, playing more in the men's circuit. I might still just play the Grand Slams.   
  
  Q. You had a tough match in the first round. Can you talk a little bit about this match? Did you serve match point, or do you remember?   
 YUKI BHAMBRI: The first match?   
  
  Q. Yes, the first one against the Mexican player.   
 YUKI BHAMBRI: No, it was -- I think I was up a break in the third set. Yeah, I broke him at, I think, 6-All. It was a tough one. I was very nervous in that match because of all the expectations being the top seed.   
 I lost the first set, so, I mean, it was getting a bit tough. I'm glad I could pull it off.   
  
  Q. Did that result give you confidence going through the tournament that you were able to pull that out?   
 YUKI BHAMBRI: Oh, definitely. I mean, coming back from a set down, especially in the first and playing 8-6 in the third. I mean, even if I probably lose in the second it couldn't get worse than that.   
 I actually felt much more comfortable playing all my other matches. I just went for my shots.  
  
  Q. Tell us a bit about how you picked up tennis and what was your motivation.   
 YUKI BHAMBRI: I have two sisters who play tennis as well. I've got courts right next to my house. I mean, you've got about ten courts there. That's how I started at a young age. Everyone in India plays sport, so that's how I really get into tennis.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT