THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Paul Kinnear
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How did you feel after your first time at the Open?  PAUL KINNEAR: Yeah, really pleased, especially with the front nine I played.  I hit all the shots I seen and I holed all the putts I looked at.  I was really happy with my first 12 holes, and I knew it was going to be tough coming in because I've played here quite a lot.  It was a real tough struggle and tough stretch, and got a few unlucky bounces, which other days you could have missed the bunkers but they went in them.  To finish 2-under on my first round in the Open, I'm really pleased.   Q.  When you were 5-under could you quite believe it?  PAUL KINNEAR: No.  It was sort of like my mind was obviously blank and I was just trying to hit the shots that I needed to hit.  Yeah, just took it in me stride.  I wasn't nervous, I was just confident with the way I was playing and the way I was hitting the ball.   Q.  (Inaudible)?  PAUL KINNEAR: Yeah, it was great.  Their support today was fantastic.  Obviously without them I wouldn't be here now.  I'd like to thank them, obviously, for coming up and supporting me this week.   Q.  Talk about the back nine.  PAUL KINNEAR: Yeah, it was just because it was quite long, and I didn't hit any good drives, so I was left with even longer second shots than what I would if I hit a good drive.  Yeah, it was a little bit of decision making for my second shots could have been a little bit better, but obviously really pleased to finish with 2-under par.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  PAUL KINNEAR: Yeah, I think so.  After seeing him play the front nine, yeah, I think he'll be a little bit more confident in me now.   Q.  Was there any point you looked at the leaderboard and saw your name with Jordan Spieth?  PAUL KINNEAR: Yeah, I think it was the 4th hole and I looked up and I seen he was 6-under through 12, and I thought, I'd love to obviously be up there.  Maybe didn't put a number on it, but I'd have loved to have seen my name on it, and I had three birdies in a row, and then birdied 11, as well, which was really, really good, and then I was pumped, and obviously seen a leaderboard on the 12th green and seen my name was up with all them.  It was just a fantastic feeling.   Q.  16 and 17, was that when --  PAUL KINNEAR: Yeah, on 16 I was just trying to -- I had 195 to clear the bunker, and I thought a good 4-iron would clear the bunker and I just pulled it slightly, but I thought it was fine.  It obviously hit the downslope, ran into the bunker and up against the lip.  Any other day I could have flew the thing and stayed on the green, so I had to take my medicine, and then I hit a really good two putt to make a bogey, which I was happy with, and then just 17, I never got on with the hole at all.  I don't think I've parred it in the 10 times I've played here.  I just don't know how to play that hole, and ended up making 6.  Yeah, to finish with 70, I'm really happy.   Q.  Can you just tell us how you ended up taking up the game, because it was quite late, wasn't it?  PAUL KINNEAR: Yeah, well, 12, I got a handicap of 18, but my dad mainly every night after school I'd just go for a game with my dad when I was younger, and then he wanted to push me into it.  He pushed me into it when I was 12, and then just kept playing well.  I was playing football and got down really quick and ended up leaving the football and playing golf and then got into all the England squads, and then obviously here.  It's been a good route so far.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT