WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 11, 2009
Matt Thornton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You really seem to come together really quickly and bond really quickly?
 MATT THORNTON: Absolutely. I think they did a great job of getting a good group of guys together. Not just good ballplayers, but good team, too. From the first day in the clubhouse, everyone seemed to get along really well, and it's just going forward now.

 Q. Four pitches in four days. Didn't exactly cost your sharpness, range of motion on the ones you threw?
 MATT THORNTON: Yeah, absolutely. That's all you're trying to do is just keep the pitches whenever you get the opportunity. They were having a tough time finding an inning, and it worked out where I could get a full inning, and it just so happened that I only threw four pitches. 
 But I'll take those today, tomorrow, and August, also.

 Q. How was the entire experience for you in Toronto. I know that first game it was a packed house here, smaller crowds after that. How did you enjoy the time here in Toronto?
 MATT THORNTON: You couldn't put anything out comparable to that first game against Canada. I got to talk to a reporter back in Chicago, having those, I would say probably, 35 out of 42,000 fans were Canadians rooting against you. They were rooting for their team and definitely wanted you to lose. 
 So that was a great atmosphere, a lot of passion in the stadium. A lot of fun for us.

 Q. Are you worried about the workload where the schedule is still going to have a lot of off days?
 MATT THORNTON: I think I'm better off not throwing as much. Doesn't matter if I am throwing here or in spring training like that. I'm a high effort guy on the mound. Everyone says I throw easy and all that, but I'm letting it rip no matter what situation I'm in. 
 So it is a long spring training, and being down there, if you are healthy, you are going to throw a lot of games. 
 This is actually, for me, it fairs a little better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT