FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
April 2, 1995
Magdalena Maleeva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Maggie, you said yesterday you didn't think you'd be nervous today.  Were you nervous at all today?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I was not nervous.  But not playing well yesterday didn't help me because yesterday I started doing things wrong technically and just today's practice before the match was not enough to improve the things I did wrong yesterday.  But still, I think I played better than I did yesterday, so I felt much better on the court and I had my chances but she played well and I wouldn't say I was nervous.


Q.  What things were you doing wrong technically?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I didn't serve well today, I didn't put first serves enough and since I was not putting them in, I really stopped going for it.  And the things I did wrong today was that I didn't go enough for my shots because I was afraid that I'm going to miss too much, but this is wrong.  I should just -- I would rather miss all the time.  Went for it rather than not go for it because since she's playing so well this is my only chance, but I learned.


Q.  It looked like you tried to play more aggressively in the second set.

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Yes.  And if I would have won that game at 1-All it would have been better.  And of course there was so many -- at least ten or 15 balls where I just missed just a little bit and they were winners, and it's just one of those days that it just doesn't go in.  I really -- they were all winners and I couldn't believe that every time it was going out.


Q.  Get a little bit frustrating for you, I'm sure.

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Yeah, but sometimes it happens.


Q.  How good is she at -- she just makes all opponents make errors.

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: At her best she's very good.  When she plays well she can beat anyone.


Q.  What was your game plan against her going in?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: The way I played the first -- at 1-All in the second set, that was my game plan and that's what I should have done the whole time.


Q.  Why did you change that if that's how you went in?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Because I was a little bit unsure and I doubted a little bit and I still tried.  I mean, sometimes I can't do it.


Q.  Was that disheartening after that long game losing that?  After that did you get a little surge?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: No.  Actually, I felt -- I saw I have a chance and the fact that I lost the game didn't bring me down, not at all, it was the opposite. But she didn't give me many chances either, she played well.


Q.  How frustrating was it to you to be hitting balls and running all over the court and it seemed to0 whatever ball you got, she would hit everything?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: It's not frustrating to me.  I know if she's playing well she does that and she's a good player and I know she will do that.  And I played enough times against good players to expect that  and I'm not going to expect that she's going to start missing.  I have to make her miss, so it was not frustrating for me.  I know she's going to play well.


Q.  Do you think she can become the No. 1 player in the world?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Yeah, if she plays all the time like today, but I have no idea if she can play every day like today.


Q.  Does it come down to that you simply had to go for too much in order to have a chance to beat her; to go for too close to the line?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: No.  It comes down to experience.  I think and I just need more time, I need to practice more, I need to be more in these situations so that I handle them better.  But it's not -- yeah, that's my answer.


Q.  Is it a matter of knowing when to go for it and when not to?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Yes.


Q.  Did you say something to the crowd at one point toward the end there?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Yeah, I said -- he said "keep fighting" or something or "come on Maggie," and I said "I'm trying".


Q.  That was at the end of the match?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: It was at 5-1.


Q.  Does that help you, the crowd, does that help you or does that give you something else to take your mind away from what you're doing?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: It doesn't -- I like it because I think people are here to enjoy themselves and sometimes we take our tennis -- that we're just too stuck in our insides but --


Q.  Chris Evert mentioned on TV that one time last year you were thinking about quitting and becoming an archeologist; is that right?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I didn't hear that.


Q.  She said that on TV today.

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I never thought of quitting.  I was just thinking of maybe doing something else because I know what it is to be a tennis player and sometimes it's not interesting for me, so I would like to do -- maybe go and study something.  And tennis is hard sometimes and if you're 17 or 18 there are too many things you have to deal with and sometimes you're not ready.  But I always knew deep down inside I knew that I'm a good tennis player and that I have to keep doing this because what I'm doing is-- I'm not going to do it all my life.  It's here until I'm healthy and I'm physically able to do what I do.  I'm not going to play tennis at 30, so I wouldn't say I really considered quitting but --


Q.  You were going to study archaeology though; is that right?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I like reading all kinds of things and yeah, sometimes I wish I had more time to do other things, but now I'm -- I've realized that it's tough because if you play tennis professionally you have to be 100 percent committed to what you do and you don't have time to see your friends or to go to school and sometimes I wish I could do that.  But this is really in the past.  I mean, this was -- I'm not a teenager anymore, I'm 20 so...


Q.  How has your play changed since your mom stopped coaching you?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: That's a very long  conversation.  I like very much working with Francois and I've always liked the things he says about tennis, his views.  And when we started working I pretty much knew what he would want from me but there are many things we've changed.


Q.  Is that why you're here because of -- to get to this point in the match?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Yes.


Q.  Are you real popular in Bulgaria?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Yes, we are.  We are quite popular, especially now that I'm winning more like after Chicago and after Tokyo.  And last year in Zurich there was a lot of attention, but it's still in my blood for that.  If I was in America I would be twice as popular, and I'm glad I'm coming from Bulgaria because I still lead a pretty normal life.


Q.  What are some of the things you've purchased with your career earnings?  Do you have, like, cars and stuff, do you have your own apartment?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I haven't bought anything very significant really.  I will probably buy a car but I just feel too guilty of polluting the environment. (LAUGHTER.) No, that's really true.  I mean, if they have some cars with batteries I would buy it immediately, but I haven't bought anything.  I spend my money on like CDs and phone calls and --


Q.  Just like a normal person, huh?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Yes.  But I will buy something big.  I bought a car for my mom last year for Christmas which was the biggest expense.


Q.  What kind of car?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: A Renault, a French car. It's really nice.


Q.  You get a good deal on it?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I don't know, she did all the dealing.  I don't know.  But I just said it's from me.


Q.  When things go like they did for you today, do you just have to chalk it up to I just played Conchita on the wrong day?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: No, that's too easy, and it's something that doesn't satisfy me.  I'm not that kind of person and I have to go through all the details and find everything out and get unbelievably negative so that I can start going up again.  No, you just sit down with your coach, discuss everything and try to figure it out and try to keep going because that's what you've chosen to do.


Q.  There on the court they said you were No. 9 in the world.  You went to No. 9 because of getting in the final?

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Yes.


Q.  Thanks very much.

MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Thank you.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT