FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 28, 1995
Magdalena Maleeva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Let me ask sort of a reverse of the question that I asked Rachel.  In the third set it's 4-All, she's serving 30-40 and there seemed to be, at least from the crowd response, a lack of a call.  She played the point out, lost the point, you're serving 5-4, could you sense maybe that she had lost some steam.
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I didn't think she loss steam, it was just a tough match during the whole time and sometimes -- she very often plays well against good players and at the end she always doesn't play well enough until the end, and I just kept saying to myself I have to keep fighting and maybe I'll fight more than she will.  So I don't think it was just that one call that upset her because there was also a very important serve which was against me.  I don't remember when -- I think at 2-Love 40-30 or something, for me game point I thought it was long.  So there were mistakes both games and I don't think it was that one call that made the difference.  Maybe, I don't know. 
 

Q.  What is it about her game that's lately been giving a lot of top players trouble?  She obviously reached the quarters.
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: She can do everything.  I mean, she can serve very well, she can go to the net, she can destroy your rhythm by playing, you know, slice, she can hit hard, she can go to the net.  She can do everything, basically, and if she has one of her days, she plays well.  But she is a good player. 
 

Q.  Is that it in the second set, was she just playing well?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I don't know what happened in the second set, I have to talk to my coach because -- yeah, she was playing well and maybe two or three points that I was supposed to win she won, and then -- but at the same time I was starting to feel better on the court and I didn't know exactly when to go for it. And that unsureness made me miss a little bit more. But it was because I was feeling a little bit better and I thought I have to hit now, I have to rule.  And for some time I lost my concentration I guess because I didn't know what exactly to do.  And she was playing well.  I mean, she was hitting and running well. 
 

Q.  Is the adjustment to the clay a problem?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Yeah, it's my first match on clay.  I haven't played matches in six weeks after Chicago.  I haven't played, so I needed to remember what it is exactly to play matches again.  And yeah, I'm glad I'm over that first match. 
 

Q.  Why haven't you played?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Because, you know, I had to do some practicing, I had to take some time off because I played well in Tokyo and Chicago and I wanted to -- I wanted to concentrate on the clay, I didn't want to play one week on hard court and another on clay. 
 

Q.  Is this a little tougher match than you would have wanted in the first round?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: No, I don't care.  It was fine.  It could have been easier in a sense that I wish  I had played better, but physically I don't -- I'm fine all the match. 
 

Q.  What did you do during those six weeks? Where were you, vactioning?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I was two weeks at home, two weeks in Switzerland and two weeks in Saddle Brook, so I was practicing the four weeks at the end.  I was practicing a lot.  I was not vacationing. 
 

Q.  Speaking of vacation, when you're here on Hilton Head, what do you do when you're not playing tennis just to kind of relax when you're away from courts?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I haven't done anything yet.  I'm too busy watching the O.J. Simpson trial. 
 

Q.  What do you usually do when you come here?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I've been here only once before, so I don't know the area very well.  I have been to where the boats are.  It's a very nice area, I think.  I'll maybe try to go again there.  I like it here because it's kind of relaxed and not too much going on like in New York and places like that.  So I like it a lot.  The weather is perfect, the bugs are not perfect but... 
 

Q.  What catches your attention about the O.J. trial?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: What is interesting to me is that I think it's not the question if he's guilty or not, it is a question of whether they'll get him off or not.  So I'm just interested.  It's very interesting to watch the lawyers, I mean, they're so smart it's unbelievable.  And it's interesting how they deal with the people, with the witnesses, and it's just -- I mean, I'm sure people in the States are sick because of it, because it's on every TV channel and everything, but I just came to the States so I kind of watch it and laugh and think about it. 
 

Q.  So have you formulated an opinion whether he's guilty or not?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: Yeah, I think he's guilty. 
 

Q.  Do you think he's going to get off?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I don't know.  I really don't know. 
 

Q.  Did you know who he was before?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: No.  Football is not very popular in Europe, and I didn't know who he was. 
 

Q.  When did you find out who he was?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I remember -- I remember I was playing at Wimbledon, I was practicing on a court and next to me there were Krajicek and David Wheaton playing and David Wheaton goes to Krajicek, Richard, did you see what happened to O.J. Simpson, and Krajicek goes no, what happened?  And he goes he killed his wife and someone else.  And Krajicek just did like oh my God, this can happen only in the States.  And this is the first thing I heard and I had no idea what's going and it became a big deal. 
 

Q.  Any particular witnesses or lawyers you like?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I think Kato is very good looking.  But no, I don't think it's a funny thing. 
 

Q.  He's not too scruffy?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: What is scruffy? 
 

Q.  Dishevelled?
 
MAGDALENA MALEEVA: I don't know, he's wierd. I don't know 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT