UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 31, 2011
Jackson Jeffcoat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. How much did you feel you needed to have that breakout performance game Saturday?  
     JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Well, I mean, I haven't had a performance like that this year, so I needed to. I needed to step up and make plays for my team. I needed to help them out, I mean, because my teammates have always had my back and made some plays.  
  
  Q. Was there any sense of frustration on your part that you hadn't had that game yet?  
     JACKSON JEFFCOAT: A little bit. A little bit. But I knew it was more about us, it was about our team. If we were winning, it was great. I mean, so I was happy about that. And that was greater than the sense of frustration I felt. The important thing is we just kept winning.  
  
  Q. What did you think was holding you back?  
     JACKSON JEFFCOAT: There was just little things, little things I had to look at, go back and watch film. I just had to keep correcting things and see things that I wasn't doing right as far as getting off the ball and things like that, and I went back and corrected them and watched with my coach, Coach Giles, and with other guys.  
  
  Q. How soon could you tell it was going to be that type of game for you?  
     JACKSON JEFFCOAT: I felt it before the game. I mean, just the way I was getting off and how I felt. I felt like it was that game. I mean, I also dedicated the game to my grandmother for cancer month, and so I mean, I wanted to play great for her, also.   
  
  Q. You obviously know you came in here with a lot of hype and expectations. Do you put that stuff on you and play with the expectations that you're supposed to come here with?   
     JACKSON JEFFCOAT: I normally don't. I normally -- I'm a big-time competitor, so that's what drives me to keep playing hard and doing better every game. And I mean, so if it's not competing with one of my teammates and we're competing against another team, it's competing with maybe my dad or something like that.  
  
  Q. What kind of cancer did your grandmother --  
     JACKSON JEFFCOAT: She has lung cancer.  
  
  Q. How do you keep this going so it's not a one-game wonder for you?  
     JACKSON JEFFCOAT: I think I found out what's going on, so just keep constantly working and working on getting better every week. That's been the goal all year, so finally feeling it.  
  
  Q. What does it take to prepare for a team like Texas Tech and what they bring offensively?   
     JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Well, you know, they can throw the ball. They're great at that. But they can also run the ball, too. So we just have to know that they're a well-balanced team. I feel like they've been running the ball more of the little bit of film that I've seen on them. So we've just got to keep continuing practicing hard. We know they're going to come out ready to play us, so we've got to be ready for them.  
  
  Q. Talk about how important it will be to carry over that performance into the Tech game and how critical the pressure is against them.   
     JACKSON JEFFCOAT: It's definitely important to get pressure on these guys. If you let them sit back there, they'll tear us apart. We just need to keep the intensity up and not feel good about a win last week because that's last week. We're on to a new week.   
  
  Q. What did it mean to you to dedicate that game to your grandmother?  
     JACKSON JEFFCOAT: It meant a lot. My grandma has been there for me for a lot, and just to call her before the game and tell her I dedicated it to her, my mom told me it meant a lot to her. I talked to her afterward and she was in tears talking about how good it was. She didn't get to watch it but she was flipping the channel back seeing what the score was, and I told her about it, and my mom told her, so it was great.  
  
  Q. So she was flipping between your game and the U of H game?  
     JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Well, my dad is not at U of H anymore. He's at San Jose State now.  
  
  Q. Who do you think has made you better amongst the offensive line?   
     JACKSON JEFFCOAT: The two guys I go against all the time is Tray Allen and Josh Carpenter. Those guys are good. Josh is a freshman. He has a great set. He gets back there. He's getting better every week. And Tray Allen, that's a big-time senior, big guy. He's great. He can play.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT