UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 3, 2011
Jackson Jeffcoat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Is this one of the games, this rivalry --
 JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Oh, yes, definitely. Growing up I've seen my brother play in this game three or four times, and it's just something that it's very exciting. And it's split on the 50-yard line, one side is OU, one side is Texas and it's great to be a part of.
 I know it's going to be a lot different but I've been in the stands and I know it's going to be a whole different story and I'm excited to get the experience and it's going to be one of those experiences that I'll remember for the rest of my life.

 Q. As a freshman, do you have to settle yourself and take everything in early? 
 JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Well, I mean, as a freshman, yeah, you're going to have to settle yourself but I think we have a lot of freshmen that have been playing are already so I think we are used to it but it's not going to be -- this game is going to be a lot more intense than the other games, so we have to prepared for that.

 Q. Is this Texas team ready to go in and win? 
 JACKSON JEFFCOAT: If we have a great week of practice, we have a very good shot at winning. Like I said earlier, we are going to be very focused, no jacking around, just have a really great week of practice.

 Q. Is this a game where you can actually execute those plays? 
 JACKSON JEFFCOAT: It's extremely fun. With Coach Harsin being the leader of this offense and putting in new plays each week and when we get to run those trick plays, it's a lot of fun when those trick plays work because we just put them in a couple of weeks before so it's a blast when those plays work.

 Q. Has your brother told you stories?
 JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Not really. Like I said I've been to those games so I've been able to see that. 

 Q. Do you see the difference in that game compared to most every other game?
 JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Oh, definitely. 

 Q. Talk about how fun the fans are? 
 JACKSON JEFFCOAT: The OU fans are crazy, that's all I remember. Everybody's going crazy and so you know, they will all be in the stands this year to experience this part and I know it's going to be really loud and I'm going to be excited and pumped for this game.

 Q. With your brother playing in this game, do you want to do the same yourself --
 JACKSON JEFFCOAT: I think it was his junior year when he had that kickoff return and I think he had over 100 yards receiving. 
 That was very extremely exciting to watch and hopefully I'll have some of the same success that he had and that's what I'm looking forward to, just trying to -- it's an inspiration for me to be able to watch them do stuff like that, so hopefully I'll be able to have a good game. 

 Q. Seems like up until now, maybe not you guys, but talk about Texas being 4-0, but if you get a win, you kind of set yourself up for putting yourself in the hunt for things that a lot of people didn't think. 
 JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Right now, 4-0 and happy to be there but this week is going to be definitely the toughest team that we have face sod far. 
 I think if we do get a victory people will see us as a big-time team because we are 4-0 right now but Oklahoma is one of the No. 1 teams in the nation right now. So that will be a big steppingstone for our team.

 Q. Now comfortable are you at this point, taking steps each week being the offensive guy. 
 JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Each week, just getting more and more comfortable for me, every time I get more touches, it just gets more comfortable. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT