UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 27, 2012
Jackson Jeffcoat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Jackson Jeffcoat 

Q. How anxious are you to play a real game? 
JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Oh, yeah, we are extremely excited to get back on the field. We have been hitting each other and beating each other up in two‑a‑days, so it's fun to get out there and go against an opponent, another team. We have been really excited for that, just itching. You can tell the guys are just itching for it. 

Q. Do you just block that stuff out‑‑
JACKSON JEFFCOAT: We just focus on improving and getting better. We know the things that we need to work on, even though they might not be mentioned in news articles and stuff like that. We know what we need to work on and get better at. We don't focus on all of those things because you can't get too high on the good and too low on the bad and take things with a grain of salt and get better. 
Just getting strong‑‑ I did have surgery so I have to make sure I improve on my strength. Things that might seem good, you have to always improve on, there's things you can always improve on. 

Q. Inaudible. 
JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Well, we think we can be good, but you never know until you play that first game you and keep doing. I mean, you've got to take it game by game. 

Q. Inaudible. 
JACKSON JEFFCOAT: No, you never really want to listen to the hype. That's how you get beat. You take it all, like I said, with a grain of salt and then you keep working. You keep improving yourself, because there's always things you can improve on. 

Q. There's a lot of talk about riding the momentum from the Holiday Bowl. How much momentum do you think that Bowl game win gave you guys? 
JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Well, that Bowl game definitely helped us. We didn't go to a Bowl game our freshman year.   That was great momentum, because there's been teams that have gone to Holiday Bowl and come out and played tremendous the next year. That's great for us. 
But we have to play. We have to go out and play. It's not just going to happen. 

Q. Coach's words were dominating and aggressive to describe the defense. Does that describe the makeup of this defense? 
JACKSON JEFFCOAT: I agree with that, being dominant and aggressive. And like our motto is R.I.S.E., so we are going to get out there.   That's how he want to be looked at when we are seen by other teams, this team is going to keep going at us so players are going to have to figure out different ways to get after us. 
That's the way we've worked. That's the way we've worked this off‑season, working hard, trying to be consistent. 

Q. With so many times last year, seeing coaches talking about mental‑‑ have you been working on the mental side of your game?
JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Of course. But during that situation, it was nothing serious, it was more of trying to come out‑‑ off the field, because of my neck. I was injured coming off the field. It was knock serious between me and Coach, we were hyped up during the game. That's how me and Coach Davis are, we are hyped‑up guys. 

Q. Inaudible. 
JACKSON JEFFCOAT: No, that's not what he was talking to me about, but yeah, I mean, of course you always work on the mental part of your game, and you want to make sure you make smart plays every game until you go into situations yourself and think about those. 

Q. Inaudible. 
JACKSON JEFFCOAT: Wyoming's offense, it's talented. They have the quarterback that can run and get after it and they have some wide receivers that can make big plays, so we have to be able to contain them. Like I said, we have to get out there and start strong from the beginning. Make sure they don't get out on us. 
My freshman year, they came out and they were beating us at the beginning. We are coming out hard from the gaining. 

Q. Are you confident in the tackles in the middle? 
JACKSON JEFFCOAT: I'm confident in the tackles behind me, so excited for them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT