NASCAR ANNOUNCEMENT
February 13, 2014
Robin Pemberton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  ROBIN PEMBERTON:   As everybody knows or most everybody knows, we're changing our qualifying format for this year for the three national series.   We talked to most of you in the off‑season at some different venues and explained that we were continuing our talks and our meetings with the teams and were going to compile that information and then finalize our qualifying format.   
So, as it remains same, there will be three rounds of qualifying on our larger than mile‑and‑a‑quarter racetracks.   There will be two rounds in the mile‑and‑a‑quarter and less.   The difference will be our five road courses will move into the short track version.   Through feedback, they felt like the second or last round needed to be a little bit longer to get multiple laps in on the track, so this should optimize their track time.   
The other feedback we had gotten was about the adjustments to the cars during qualifying rounds.   Starting in Phoenix, the teams will be able to adjust during their qualifying rounds and in the breaks of their qualifying rounds.   If it's during the round when the track is hot, there will be one crew member over the wall that must wear a helmet and he can perform the adjustments which are tape, tire pressures and wedge.   And then during the breaks, it will be three crew members when the track is cold, and they'll go over to perform those duties.   
The exception to this are the Daytona and Talladega qualifying, there will be no changes during the rounds.   We feel like the Super Speedway is unique anyways, and due to the drafting, which will be most important during those sessions, we feel like we'll limit those changes to the breaks.  
   
 Q.   I'm just a little bit confused.   There will be a crew member who, during the qualifying session, can make changes to the vehicle?   So someone could go out for three or four laps, come back in, wait a little bit, make changes, go out again.   Is that correct?   
ROBIN PEMBERTON:   That is true.   That is correct.  
   
 Q.   Why the addition of adjustments allowed during the sessions now instead of just between them?   
ROBIN PEMBERTON:   It was our feedback through the teams that when we went back and looked at the minutes of the meetings, that seemed to be the most common question.   Because of the length and really because of the length of the first round, they felt like if it was an opportunity for them to still make adjustments and still give it a little time for the tires to cool down, engine to cool down.   So that was probably unanimous amongst all of our national series, the Camping World Truck Series, Nationwide Series, and the Sprint Cup Series.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT