NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 29, 2014
Brandon Saad
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the challenge going into their building again, getting the win?
BRANDON SAAD:   It's a tough building to play in.   We've had success there before.   We can use that experience and hopefully win tomorrow. 

Q.   Have you come down from the fantastic game last night? 
BRANDON SAAD:   Yeah, it was an exciting game.   We all enjoyed it last night.   It's a new day and we have to focus on tomorrow. 

Q.   What is it about you and Patrick Kane that works so well together?
BRANDON SAAD:   I think we both have some skill.   With hard work out there, he creates a lot of space.   I just try to get open and he can make the play. 

Q.   Joel talked about that being a line for a long time to come. 
BRANDON SAAD:   It was fun last night.   Hopefully we can continue having success and stay together. 

Q.   You made that pass and then the game was over. 
BRANDON SAAD:   I tried to buy some time and look for options.   I saw him coming down the middle.   He was open.   Made a great play off his skate, a great play to finish off the game. 

Q.   How do you balance desperation and confidence?
BRANDON SAAD:   I think from past experiences.   Our backs are against the wall, facing elimination.   But we're staying relaxed.   Knowing we've been through it before, that definitely helps.

Q.   Where does the confidence come from on the road?
BRANDON SAAD:   We've had success on the road before.   L.A. is definitely tough.   We're not going to let that end the season.   We can't make any excuses whether we're playing home or away. 

Q.   How do you do that?   You want to build up momentum.   How do you balance it?
BRANDON SAAD:   I think you want to take that momentum.   Momentum is huge in playoffs.   You want to try to ride that as long as you can. 
I think going into their building, getting off to a big start will definitely help that.

Q.   What has this series done for you individually in your development?
BRANDON SAAD:   I felt pretty good all playoffs.   To be able to produce and help out the team, that always helps with confidence, bringing your game to the next level.

Q.   When you're a young guy out there, milestone marks along the way in your development, you feel you've passed the test. 
BRANDON SAAD:   You always look for new challenges.   Any time you can elevate your game, produce, help the team win, that obviously helps out with your confidence and moving up.

Q.   Did you learn anything about yourself as a player last night?
BRANDON SAAD:   Yeah, I feel that was one of the best games I ever played on one of the biggest stages.   It was nice to help the team win in an elimination game.   I'm looking forward to going forward. 

Q.   Do you know the momentum can carry you forward?
BRANDON SAAD:   Momentum is huge.   They strung three wins together with momentum.   After last night, we want to keep that momentum as long as we can. 

Q.   Do you find that that momentum carries from game to game?
BRANDON SAAD:   I think it carries game to game.   Even with a couple days off, you're always thinking about whether you win or lose.   You always feel better on the winning side. 
With that win, I think we can feel good going into tomorrow.

Q.   What is the pressure like knowing you can go home if you don't win?
BRANDON SAAD:   It's a lot of pressure.   At the same time you try to relax and take it like any other game.   Anytime you think too much into the future, it tends to hinder your game. 
I think staying relaxed, having fun, playing the game, it's when you're at your best.

Q.   Who relaxes the people in the room?
BRANDON SAAD:   I think everyone through past experiences.   Obviously we have a lot of leaders that help out along the way.   Going through it in the long run, that's what helps the most. 

Q.   Do you feel that's the bar now, where you need to play?
BRANDON SAAD:   Yeah, that's the game I want to play consistently every night.   It's tough to do.   I want to play that way, skating hard.   Hopefully the production comes every night.

Q.   How difficult is the turnaround?
BRANDON SAAD:   Travel day with the long day and long travel.   Both teams are going through it, so there's no excuses.

Q.   You talked about your line bringing energy early in the game.   How much harder will that be going into their building? 
BRANDON SAAD:   I think we have a deep team.   Even though our line ended up scoring last night, there's a lot of lines that can be a threat.   Who knows how the matchups will go.   But we have to bring our game. 

Q.   Is it starting to feel like it was when you were a junior, where you're just playing hockey, you don't have to worry about the speed of the game?
BRANDON SAAD:   I feel good.   The more you go through things, the better you feel.   Going through the playoffs last year, I'm feeling comfortable, confident.   That definitely helps in your game. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
BRANDON SAAD:   Yeah, I don't know.   I'll have to look at pictures.   I think it's getting worse every year (laughter). 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT