U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2008
Drew Kittleson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETE KOWALSKI: We would like to welcome our first semifinalist Drew Kittleson from Scottsdale Arizona. A 3 and 2 winner over Derek Fathauer. Drew, if you could just give us your emotional reaction to being a semifinalist at the U.S. Amateur.   
 DREW KITTLESON: I'm excited, I'm definitely excited and looking forward to the other matches. Hopefully, the other matches, and just I'm playing well and just kind of trying to keep doing it.   
 PETE KOWALSKI: It looked to us who were watching that maybe you had an easier time with your game today than maybe Derek did. Could you assess that?   
 DREW KITTLESON: I mean, yeah, I hit a couple good shots in there and Derek shorted it a little bit at certain times. And I was, he got up-and-down a couple times and it wasn't as easy as -- I guess my other, a couple of my other matches were a touch easier.  
 PETE KOWALSKI: How about the birdie on 14 out of the bunker, from how far away, and just tell us how good of a shot that was and what it did to you at that point after losing the hole before.  
 DREW KITTLESON: Well, two holes before that. I was 4-up and then I went to 2-up is all. And I'm in that bunker three out of four days in the matches, so I had some practice out of it.   
 And I think I had about 185 minus 14 or something and so 170, somewhere around there and hit 7-iron and it was blowing back in a the wind and just hit it perfect.   
 PETE KOWALSKI: What club was it?   
 DREW KITTLESON: 7-iron.   
  
  Q. To how far?  
 DREW KITTLESON: About 170 to the flag.  
  
  Q. But how far once you hit it?  
 DREW KITTLESON: Oh, I hit it about 12 feet. 10 feet.   
 PETE KOWALSKI: Do you feel like a little bit like you're a little under the radar coming into this?   
 DREW KITTLESON: Yeah, I mean, I had a good junior career and then went through some growth spurts and swing changes and things my freshman year at school.   
 Now it's starting to have my game come around the last month or so and just it came together at a good time.   
 PETE KOWALSKI: Speaking of growth spurts, for the record your height and weight?   
 DREW KITTLESON: In golf shoes I'll be touching 6-4, I'm probably about 6-2 and a half, 6-3. And soaking wet, 170.   
 PETE KOWALSKI: Have you got any thoughts about who you might be playing and reacting to that?   
 DREW KITTLESON: I know I'm playing either Mitchell or Holland and I know both of them really well, so I have actually never played with Charlie, so I don't know much about his game. I played with Adam when he shot 62 at Porter Cup, so nothing will surprise me out there.   
  
  Q. You were actually paired with Adam when he shot the 62?  
 DREW KITTLESON: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Where was that?  
 DREW KITTLESON: Porter Cup. It's in Niagara Falls New York.   
 PETE KOWALSKI: Just got the result over the radio, you're going to be playing Adam. He's a 2 & 1 winner.   
 DREW KITTLESON: All right.   
  
  Q. Just overall as far as the day's win, I mean was there any particular point where that you felt that you were in control, that you had things going, I know you were 4-up, but then you lose two, what were you thinking at that time?  
 DREW KITTLESON: I felt pretty in control when I was 4-up and then I had a pretty relatively easy fairway bunker shot on 12 and he was way left in the rough and then hit it over. And then I just fatted the bunker shot and didn't make bogey and he made a good 15-footer for par and that kind of turned the momentum.   
 But I've been playing well all week so there was no reason for even if you're down to still have confidence and try to comeback.   
 PETE KOWALSKI: The way you've been playing coming into the U.S. Amateur, did you feel that you were getting yourself ready for some success or did you -- how was the state of your game before you got here?   
 DREW KITTLESON: Our team actually our my college team, Florida State, went to Scotland about three days before the U.S. Amateur and so or we got back three days before the U.S. Amateur and I just drove up here and I played really well out there and for about two weeks and before then I was playing well, so just like I said, peaked at the right time and am playing well.  
 PETE KOWALSKI: Give us the courses that you played over there.  
 DREW KITTLESON: We had a pretty unbelievable schedule we did Turnberry, Muirfield, both St. Andrews, Royal Troon, North Berwick, Prestwick, Kingsbarns, we did -- it was pretty unbelievable.   
 PETE KOWALSKI: What was your best score?   
 DREW KITTLESON: I had a -- well it's a big deal to play the championship tees there, so some of the courses we couldn't play them, so probably half the holes at St. Andrews the old course I didn't play the back tees, but shot 64 at St. Andrews.   
 PETE KOWALSKI: And what in preparation there was good for the two courses that you played here?   
 DREW KITTLESON: The same almost. Bump and run and chipping from the fairways and stuff like that. When I got here I was a little surprised how wet it was. You could fly it on the green and spin it a little bit, which I wasn't expecting. But I also putted it a couple times and I think that it was good practice before coming here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT