TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2001
Andrei Pavel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 

Q.  Well, you had your chances in the first set to get up on that.  You had three set points and on the first one, he played a serve and volley point.  Did that surprise you at all?
 
ANDREI PAVEL: I had  -- I mean, I have to say in the beginning I was having not a good day today.  I didn't feel really comfortable on the center court.  Maybe because, uhm, how can I put that? Is everything very big and like I couldn't get hold of my game and also little bit tired, you know.  Everybody, you know, was telling me,  "Okay, this kid is good, but for sure you're gonna win," and all this.  Everything came together and that's why maybe I didn't fell that good on the court.  I couldn't play my game, and just I was trying to play like - I don't know - different game that I don't even know what I played. So basically I didn't have the very good day, and he  -- he serves big.  He starts well.  He went on the court.  He was so relaxed and he hit the ball very well, and then when I came back, obviously I had my chances.  The rain, I think that rain was good for him in that moment because I was on my  -- I was going up on my game.  I knew what I did and what I got to do right now. So I had the set point at 6-5 and he did the serve  -- good serve and volley.  Then I had a few set points in the tiebreak where he serve big. So he played very well, and of course, you know, it's like  -- I mean all the crowd wanted to  -- him to win.  There were so many balls, huge outs, and everybody said it was good and all this was  -- it was a big, you know, I didn't feel comfortable and I knew that is gonna be like this.  I knew what I had to do.  But nothing worked good for me, and that's the whole story basically. 
 

Q.  This is your first trip on to Stadium court?
 
ANDREI PAVEL: No.  This year? 
 

Q.  Yes. 
 
ANDREI PAVEL: This year, yes.  This year, yes. But I guess is not the problem.  I think as I said, I had a bad day.  I didn't fell my feet on the court.  I couldn't move on the right way and, you know, when you don't start well then you have to pick up and then, you know, sometimes you get lucky, unlucky and of course you always have the big serve and you always have to return good.  I didn't  -- it's not much to say.  He played a great tennis from the beginning till the end.  I mean, I had to come back in the first set and he keep the  -- his mind clear, didn't felt any pressure.  So it was good, very good for him. 
 

Q.  What do you think about his future?
 
ANDREI PAVEL: Well, I'm not the one to say what I think about his future.  I mean he's already, I think, after this tournament he's going to be Top 100, I don't know.  He's already achieved so much.  He's got a great game, he's got a huge serve.  He's playing aggressive, and he can, you know, hopefully learn more about this game because he's so young and I think he has a great future. But, you know, it's like  -- always you have to watch out with the injuries and all this.  I mean, but he's a very great player.  He's got everything: Forehand, backhand, everything.  And this huge serve.  
 

Q.  How do you like his chances with Hewitt and Santoro?
 
ANDREI PAVEL: Excuse me? 
 

Q.  How do you like his chances?
 
ANDREI PAVEL: Well, I think Santoro wasn't feeling  - Santoro  - Hewitt wasn't feeling so good.  I don't know what the score is right now.  I think both of them is very difficult, difficult match for him.  Especially I think -- especially against I guess both of them because they return so good, both of them. So he's gonna have a tough time.  But he's in the quarters.  He beat Rios, Sampras, I put them in front.  I'm not as famous as they are, and he's going for the quarterfinal of the Super 9.  That's unbelievable for him, and I think he's gonna go relaxed there and try to play his best.  And if his serves goes well, I think he's going to be very confident on the return game and attack and, you know, who knows? His chances, they are huge now. 
 

Q.  How effective was his kick second serve today?
 
ANDREI PAVEL: Well, I mean, is a very good serve but I have to return him back.  I had to make my game, especially on my backhand, because this is my best shot.  And today was not there.  I mean, I try everything to get it back, and instead of getting it back, I get very upset and because was no going as I want it to go.  I try to fight back every time and was very difficult, so I had to make it.  I had to make it.  But his serve is great.  His serve is huge.  Still...  
 

Q.  Going fishing?
 
ANDREI PAVEL: I don't know.  I don't know.  I might go.  My family's here, I don't have that much time.  I think it's going to be shopping first before fishing.  I guess, I hope I gonna get the time to go a day fishing.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT