US OPEN
August 30, 2005
Andrei Pavel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Talk us through the ending, especially the way you saw it, from the moment when he was ill on court. 
 
ANDREI PAVEL:  Well, I think, you know, there was a moment in the fourth set where after I won the third set where I had the feeling like now I have him.  I had 30-Love the first four games.  I won only one of those four games.  Then I lost really 6-1.  The last set, I just -- I don't know.  I just had the feeling I was winning all the time the points, but somehow I was losing the point.  I don't know.  It was a strange, strange feeling right there.  Then, you know, start throwing up.  I didn't relax because I know from experience, like, you know, they really start to play better, and the public gets behind them.  I don't know.  Anyway, I broke back.  The match starts -- it started to be interesting again, put it this way.  You know, then was that call from the umpire which I saw it out, and I got really frustrated because, you know, is a far corner, and the ball was really slow.  I mean, was very difficult to overrule that ball at that time of the match.  I got a little bit upset.  Then, you know, he broke me there again.  Then he play really well.  He play solid to finish the match.  You know, I didn't give up.  I was trying to get back in the match.  But, you know, he played really well.  
 
Q.  Were you at all surprised for an 18-year-old that he showed such sort of mental toughness?
 
ANDREI PAVEL:  Are you surprised that Nadal is No. 2 in the world right now?  It's a young generation.  There are a few guys that are playing very good.  You should compare with him Naadal, I guess.  I don't know. He played a good match today.  I couldn't get rhythm with his game.  He play really smart.  He played this really slow balls that I didn't like it.  I hope he's going to do well.  
 
Q.  Is that perhaps a quality, having now played him firsthand, that other players don't have?  He has the ability to change his game and make other players play more poorly than they would otherwise want to do?
 
ANDREI PAVEL:  I don't know.  Next time we'll see.  Maybe next time I will play different.  This is my first time I played him.  Is always, you know, playing a young kid that is just coming out and is playing good, is always difficult because you know all the pressure is on your shoulders.  He has nothing to lose.  But he did play a good match.  He fighted.  Five-setter match for his age - 18 you said he is.  I think is a great player.  
 
Q.  How would you compare him to Lleyton Hewitt at the same age?  Essentially they're kind of like the same kind of player, counter-punchers. 
 
ANDREI PAVEL:  Man, I don't feel like comparing players right now.  I don't know.  I guess Hewitt was faster and moving better than he is.  This guy has got a better serve.  I think Hewitt was a little bit better because he played a little bit better.  I think with 18, he was a little bit higher than Murray right now.  So I don't know.  You do the comparing.  
 
Q.  How about yourself?  Where do you see yourself at the moment?
 
ANDREI PAVEL:  Well, I didn't have a very good year.  I've been struggling pretty much.  I hope I going to have -- I dropped this year from 13 to now I'm like 40.  I haven't defend my points yet.  Played fourth round last year.  I going to drop to around 50.  You know, I still -- I'm feeling pretty good.  I'm feeling confident.  It just doesn't go my way.  I lost a little bit of confidence.  I hope I can get back on track.  I have a tournament on home ground in two weeks.  So I'm trying to enjoy it and I'm trying to get my rhythm.  I hope that I going to do that pretty fast and go back.  
 
Q.  You're a similar age to Henman.  He's going to drop from 12 to 30.  How tough is it to keep the enthusiasm and desire when you are dropping away a little bit?
 
ANDREI PAVEL:  Well, is not easy.  The question inside is, are you enjoying the same way when you're up?  For sure not.  I think I talk about myself.  I still want to play good.  I still want to work hard.  You know, is confidence.  What you expecting?  You cannot expect to be always the same thing, you know. There are some players like Agassi and all these guys, they're special.  I think Henman had an amazing career.  I don't know how many years he's been in Top 10.  Now that he's dropping a little bit, you know, you never know.  You never know what's going to happen.  Is not a big deal, I don't think.  I think you need some matches to win and come back.  
 
Q.  Was this the first point penalty you've been assessed?
 
ANDREI PAVEL:  In my career?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
ANDREI PAVEL:  For sure not.  I think I had like maybe two, the second or third time.  I've been pretty long on the career.  
 
Q.  Did you actually hear him say it?
 
ANDREI PAVEL:  I heard him saying.  But, you know, was unfair because, okay, give me a code violation for ball abuse, I abuse the ball.  But then Murray, he slam his racquet about three times, plus he broke the racquet and didn't get anything.  I ask him, "Listen, I mean, is everything okay?"  He said, "No, was my decision."  I said, "Okay."  Then he just pissing me off because he came with that overrule.  Even if that ball, how you said, the TV said maybe touched the line, is still like, I mean, I don't think the ball -- I mean, I was there, so the ball was for sure not on the line or inside the court.  For him to overrule that was like, especially at that time, that was like the worst thing in far corner.  That was pretty bad.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT