NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2004
Andrei Pavel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Talk about that win today.  Obviously your backhand looks as good as ever.

ANDREI PAVEL:  Yeah, it worked pretty good.  I thought I moved pretty well and I think he didn't play very sharp.  And, actually, he didn't play a lot of very  -- he played the same thing almost all the time, Lleyton, in the first set, and also in the second set.  I adjust pretty good today to his game.  You know, I got a little bit nervous serving for the match, played two double-faults, and also he didn't serve so well.  He played also a lot of double-faults.  But, you know, you have to run a lot to beat Hewitt.  You have to make the shots.  He won't give you a lot of presents.  So backhand was pretty good, yeah.

Q.  Also you attacked the net seemingly at the right time.  Is that a game plan for you, come in off your backhand? 

ANDREI PAVEL:  Yes, I mean, that's  -- I have to use my backhand as much as I can.  I think I saved few breakpoints coming in to the net with my backhand and also make some good passing shots.  You know, much more than that, I don't know (smiling).

Q.  It's been your luck, if you will, to run into Roger Federer at these tournaments.  Can you just talk about four of your six losses this year have been against him. 

ANDREI PAVEL:  Yeah, I started  -- it started the Davis Cup, you know.  I catch him right after Australia, winning Australian Open.  You know, was a tight match there.   And, you know, going then after to Rotterdam.  Then I had chances to win the first set.  Had breakpoints at 5-all, missed it, then was 7-6, 7-5, a tight match in Rotterdam like two weeks after.  You know, I didn't  -- I had not even a week off, then we play in Dubai again each other.  There he was playing, he played really unbelievable.  I was playing good, too, but, you know, he's on top of his game.  Right now, he seems pretty unbeatable.  You know, then you get kind of -- next time I play him in Indian Wells, and I got  -- I think I lost it from my head in Indian Wells.  I mean, I was playing good there, too, and I had the first breakpoints.  I was up 2-1, breakpoints to go, 3-1.  I had an easy forehand, missed it.  Somehow I blocked from that moment.  I go, "Not again," you know....  So if you say that against the No. 1, then you already lost somehow.  I hope he's getting tired, you know, of winning (smiling).  He lost only one match to Henman.  Maybe he's gonna get tired to win another two matches this week.  I mean, I'm not tired to win, so...  But, no, I don't want to wish him that.  I just  -- I think if I make it to the quarterfinal and I gonna play Roger again, you know, I guess, I hope  -- I hope I'm not gonna be nervous or I hope I can keep my mind straight.  I have to win another match, so I gonna have few matches under my belt in this tournament.  I hope I gonna play relaxed and, you know, maybe this time.  But is not easy to play a guy that is always on top  -- he's the No. 1 and he only lost a match.  He beat everybody.  He basically lost few sets if you look at it also, so...

Q.  How difficult was it to get over the backhand trouble? 

ANDREI PAVEL:  Well, is always difficult to get over injuries.  Last year I had more than a half a year off and, you know, then you start to go  -- I mean, I had the physiotherapist with me all the time.  I'm not any more the younger, so I have to watch out.   Then I had the wrist injury as well.  That's why it put me off for six months, actually  - the wrist injury, not the back injury.  So I was lucky to come back, to make a fast comeback.  After my first tournament, play the (inaudible).  That give me a lot of confidence.  This year, it seems like a pretty solid year  - fourth round, Australian Open.  And losing four times to Federer means a lot, you know.  It's not like I'm like losing to everybody.  So, you know, this year I played twice Mirnyi, four times Federer, so, you know, seems like I stick to a group there all the time.

Q.  Are you sick of seeing his name on your side of the draw?

ANDREI PAVEL:  I get a lot of shit, I'm telling you that, from all the players.  They always go, "Oh, okay, all right... This week," so...  But, you know, what can I do? 

Q.  Have you said anything meant to be funny to Roger when you pass him in the hallway?

ANDREI PAVEL:  Of course.  I always go like...(gesturing).  But, you know, I think  -- you cannot write that (smiling). 

Q.  What does he say? 

ANDREI PAVEL:  He's a very cool guy.  He's pretty, you know  -- he laughs.  I mean, I will do the same thing, I guess, you know. 

Q.  Do you think after having had so long out kind of keeping your sense of humor, a sense of perspective, is important in playing this sport?  You have to try and keep...

ANDREI PAVEL:  Yeah, of course.  I think  -- I enjoy the most tennis right now than when I was like 22.  I was like, you know, now I'm more relaxed, you know.  I can handle much better the traveling, the missing family.  Right now, having the family with me is not easy as you think, you know, staying with two kids.  Like last night, I woke up at 4 o'clock, I had to change beds, you know.  But, you know, you take the best of it, you know.  Sometimes when you have family, you have the family with you, you have to see the positive, the good side on that.  And when you are away, again, somehow you have to, you know ...   Is good when you win, always.  Everything seems beautiful.  When you lose, then you try to figure out a way to still feel good, so...

Q.  Why did you have to change beds? 

ANDREI PAVEL:  Well, my son start crying, you know.  So he woke up at 4 o'clock in the morning and wanted to play.  I guess he played with the mom, you know.  I went to another bed and sleep, so...

Q.  Another room?

ANDREI PAVEL:  Yeah.  We, you know, that's why it's pretty expensive when you go with like wife, two kids, a coach, you know.  It's like having a huge apartment.  Especially in Miami, is not very cheap, you know.  But that's the price.  It's good to win, you know, then it's not that expensive anymore.

Q.  You should get the coach to go and play with the kids, pay him to do that, get him to be a nanny.

ANDREI PAVEL:  Imagine bringing a nanny as well. 

Q.  How old are your kids?

ANDREI PAVEL:  My daughter, she's gonna be five in July.  My son is gonna be two in June, so...  My wife, you don't want to know about (laughing).  


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT