U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2016
Virginia Elena Carta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So I think you led the whole way today; pretty steady round for you?  
VIRGINIA ELENA CARTA: Yeah.  I think my long game was pretty good today again, not as on the qualifying.  In fact, I want to hit some shots to get ready for tomorrow on the driving range.  My putter was way better.  We kind of expected today to be better because in match play I kind the hit the ball on the green instead of like being scared of hitting putts.  But at the same time, I was really excited.  I knew Rinko is like an awesome player, so I was really focused.  I knew I couldn't like lose my attention on the course because she's good, and I knew she could like come back really easily.   
That was good.  That was good because it took me really, really focused during the entire 14 or 15 holes.   
What else?   
 Q.  Any particular holes that stood out to you where you made a good save, or was it kind of a steady day for you?  
VIRGINIA ELENA CARTA: I think some putts that I hit actually, they went like too far from the hole back, so I made like some good -- a few good putts coming back, so those ones helped me on the front nine.  But I think like with the pace today, it was way better, so I could handle all the situations.   
Shots that I particularly liked, I'm not sure.  The last hole was kind of nerve-racking because the wind was blowing more than all the other days, so instead of playing a hybrid, I had to hit a 3-wood, which is kind of unusual on a par-3, but it like started on the right, so I was super scared of going in the bunker as all the other days, but it was pretty close to the hole, and then the first putt I didn't know it was that fast, so I went like, I don't know, like four feet past the hole, and then I made like a comeback, and I think that hole was crucial.   
 Q.  Sounds like maybe you like match play a little more than stroke play perhaps?  
VIRGINIA ELENA CARTA: No.  Like I don't think match play is that fair.   
 Q.  Okay, why not?  
VIRGINIA ELENA CARTA: Because I think stroke play -- I don't know, for example, like I'm a better putter in match play, sometimes, usually, because you don't think about the next putt, while on stroke play you also have to think about, okay, I don't have to miss it.  If I miss it, it has to be close, where in match play you don't have that kind of attitude so you are able to make more putts.   
 Q.  So you think stroke play is a little more all-encompassing of your game?  
VIRGINIA ELENA CARTA: Yes, where match play you can also give yourself the chance to make some more mistakes because you know that even if you three-putt three times but you one-putt five times, you're like 2-up, for example, while in match play, three-putting and one-putting you never know what is going to happen.  It's more risky for sure.   
 Q.  So you're done nice and early today.  
VIRGINIA ELENA CARTA: Yes.   
 Q.  What do you do now?  
VIRGINIA ELENA CARTA: I think I'm going to -- I don't even know what time it is.   
 Q.  It is 12:15.  
VIRGINIA ELENA CARTA: Okay, so probably lunch, and then seeing the physio, a good practice session for a little bit, and then that's it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT