ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
February 22, 2020
Nattaya Boochatham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
West Indies - 80/3, Thailand - 78/9   
 Q.  When the West Indies were 3 for 27, there must have been a lot of hope within the side. What was going through your mind at that time?  
NATTAYA BOOCHATHAM: With those figures on the board, we thought that we could have had a chance if we had a bit more runs on the board, but yeah, then again, a bit too little runs today.   
 Q.  What was it like just appearing in a World Cup? It must be a big moment for the country.  
NATTAYA BOOCHATHAM: It's been a long time waiting. It's been 13 years for us, so I was really excited to get on the ground, get on the World Cup stage and show the people of the world that Thailand can play really good cricket.   
 Q.  Just on that, there's been so much made of how wonderful the story is of the emergence of Thailand, but do you feel now after that performance today, that's sort of gone and people will actually start talking about you and looking at you as a cricket side?  
NATTAYA BOOCHATHAM: Yes, probably going to make people look at us positively, take us more seriously, and it's just going to be a bit of motivation for us to do better and show that we can compete at this global stage.   
 Q.  Do you have the confidence that you can defend low targets, because that was an impressive performance in the field. Just how much is that a strength for you, and do you have the confidence to feel that you can do that if you haven't set a high target with the bat?  
NATTAYA BOOCHATHAM: So we have the mentality of being aggressive, and it just takes 10 good balls that creates wickets, so that's a formula we stick to, and also we trust our fielding a lot.   
 Q.  What was the feeling like within the team last night? Did you get enough rest, good rest, and what was it like to wake up in the morning and realise today is the day when you're going to play your first ever World Cup match?  
NATTAYA BOOCHATHAM: A lot of meditation last night, a lot of meditation, playing that imagery, visualizing the positive intent that I want to show with the bat and the ball, the lines I was going to bowl, areas I was going to get my runs. So yeah, I practiced that a lot. And waking up in the morning, just reinforcing probably that thought pattern and being positive coming into today's game.   
 Q.  It was maybe a little bit of a surprise that Thailand chose to bat first given that you're kind of a stronger bowling team than you are batting team. Can you talk about the reasons behind choosing to bat first, having won the toss?  
NATTAYA BOOCHATHAM: We back ourselves to bat first and post a decent score on the scoreboard, as well, because we practice a lot, and it's just the top order didn't really click for us today. But we really back ourselves to do well with the bat, as well. The pitch was also in good condition, so it's going to be fair game for whoever bats first or bats second.   
 Q.  A lot of us had heard and today saw that Thailand had a very good fielding team. Can you give us an insight into how much preparation has gone into the fielding, and in your opinion how long has the fielding been at this level?  
NATTAYA BOOCHATHAM: So obviously as you can see, we're very happy on the field, and when it comes to the fielding sessions, we want to dive into it right away. That's one of the best points of our team. Another point I want to make is that we do a lot of match simulations, as well, so the ball is drilled as hard as it would be in a normal game, so we practice according to that intensity so we can handle the pressure out there.   
 Q.  You were very good at turning the strike over and putting pressure on the West Indies fielders and bowlers, but it was when you went to clear the infield was when you came up stuck; eight shots attempted to go over the field and four wickets were lost. How will you change your tactics or will you change your tactics going into the next game considering how it affected the top order today?  
NATTAYA BOOCHATHAM: That aggressive nature is always going to be the same because T20 cricket we have to find runs. That intent is not really going to change. It might get stronger, be more aggressive, but take the smarter option, find the four on the ground, hit it hard on the ground, and stick to our basic plans of rotating the strike.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT