RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 22, 2008
Jim Kinnear
Nick Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. We're very pleased today to have Mr. Jim Kinnear, president and CEO of Pengrowth Management, Ltd., along with our Team Canada National Team members Nick Taylor and Mike Knight, both competing this week, for a special announcement. Jim Kinnear and Pengrowth will donate $250 on behalf of each of the 156 players in this week's RBC Canadian Open field to Team Canada, a total donation of $40,000 to the RCGA National Amateur Program and Team Canada. 
 Jim and Pengrowth have provided each player in the field with a special welcome card outlining this donation, as well as thanking them for their support.
 Accepting this generous donation are our National Team members Nick Taylor and Mike Knight, and on behalf of the RCGA, everybody involved with Team Canada, our sincere thanks to Jim and everyone at Pengrowth for this largest-ever single donation to Team Canada. I'm going to pass the mike over to Nick for a couple of quick words as well as a quick word from Mr. Kinnear. 
 NICK TAYLOR: On behalf of the RCGA National Team, we'd like to thank you for your donation. We'd like to give you a hat. This is the new logo for the Canada team next year. 
 JIM KINNEAR: Thank you very much. On behalf of all of our team members at Pengrowth, we are really pleased to be assisting with the development of excellence within our country, and congratulations to all the Team Canada members, many of which were with us this year at the Pengrowth Glencoe Invitational in Calgary, and we're really pleased that two members of the team will be playing with us this week. Congratulations, and have a wonderful week. 
 THE MODERATOR: Before we get into the formal media availability, does anybody have any questions for Mr. Kinnear or anybody with Team Canada? 

 Q. Obviously there are no funds coming from the Canadian Open toward this, so is this your way of recognizing that? 
 JIM KINNEAR: This is an opportunity for us to give back to the community and to Team Canada and to encourage excellence in the sport and hopefully will help the Team Canada programs to become as successful or more successful than they have been in the past. 

 Q. Jim, last year at Angus Glen you were a big trumpeter for the Canadian Open. Obviously it was in rougher times back then. I just want to get your opinion about what's gone on in the past year compared to what was going on last year at this time at Angus Glen. 
 JIM KINNEAR: Thanks for that question, what has been going on the last year since we met at Angus Glen. As many of you know, after the Pro-Am last year, we did organize a luncheon which some of the professionals attended, including Jim Furyk, and they presented on behalf of the Canadian Open a very compelling case such that we could begin the turnaround of the Canadian Open. As you know, we're very passionate about this tournament. This is Canada's national tournament for international play. 
 So after that meeting, at which some of the members of the business community were also present, we did get in touch, contact a number of potential sponsors for the tournament. We really felt that it was important to raise some capital to begin the turnaround of the Canadian Open. And very fortunately, in fact, those of you who were at the Presidents Cup in Montreal, may have known that we had been in touch with some of the potential sponsors. And it was subsequent to that event that indeed the Royal Bank of Canada, RBC, became the major and hosting sponsor of the Canadian Open. 
 Now, that's very, very encouraging for all of us. We have remained a sponsor -- continue to be a sponsor along with Bell. On a go-forward basis, now the heavy lifting begins. Now we have to really show that we can turn this tournament around. 
 You've seen a number of improvements this year, but we're happy that we're cooperating with the RCGA and with the other major sponsors, including Bell and the Royal Bank, to continue the turnaround of this tournament. We want to get it back to golf's fifth major if we can, and there's no reason why we can't. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT