NHL DRAFT
June 24, 2011
Adam Larsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts going into today?   
 ADAM LARSSON: Well, we're happy and excited for next year to go into New Jersey's organization, and I'm very proud too.  
  
  Q. Surprised going down to four? There was a chance of you being second.   
 ADAM LARSSON: No, actually not. I think it's just good guys and skilled guys that came before me.   
 So I'm not surprised at all.  
  
  Q. Adam, is it nice to go to a team that already has such a good foundation?   
 ADAM LARSSON: Yeah, of course. They have three Swedes on their team, so I think that makes things easier for me from the start.  
  
  Q. Did you get the idea that they were (Indiscernible)?  
 ADAM LARSSON: Yeah, actually I had some meetings with them right after the draft, too, and they had said good things about me, but you never know. I wasn't sure.  
  
  Q. What kind of adjustments do you need to make to your game?  
 ADAM LARSSON: I think I need to be stronger in my body and I need to improve my shots a little bit more, but I'm working on it at home every single day, and hopefully we'll get better.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 ADAM LARSSON: Yeah, we'll see. I'll talk to the Devils and hear what their plans for me are. Of course I want to play in the NHL one day. That's my dream my whole life, and hopefully it will be next year.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about playing in front of a world class goalie like Martin Brodeur?   
 ADAM LARSSON: Of course it would be an honor to play in front of him. I don't know what to say, but I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  Q. Did you feel any pressure? I mean you were talked about going potentially 1 or 2, did you feel the pressure for yourself coming into this day and have some hopes and anxieties in terms of wanting to have that number one spot?   
 ADAM LARSSON: Yeah, of course, I wanted to be number one. I think all of the guys want that, but after all I was proud. The draft is just huge for every single hockey player. So I'm just happy to be drafted right now.  
  
  Q. Do you think there is a sense maybe of motivation for you to say, "I'm the guy and I should have gone number one" ?   
 ADAM LARSSON: Yeah, of course, I wish.  
  
  Q. Talk about your thoughts of being drafted by New Jersey and putting on the jersey and being drafted by them?   
 ADAM LARSSON: Yeah, they have many Stanley Cups. It is a good organization and everything. They have some old guys, and I think that helps, can help our young players.  
  
  Q. Tim Erixson in Sweden, you're now going to be right across the river from him. He's in New York, you're in New Jersey. What's that mean to you and what's that going to be like being rivals with him now?   
 ADAM LARSSON: Yeah, of course, it will feel great to have him just across the river and just hang out with him. But at the games we are not friends, so.  
  
  Q. Do you know any of the Swedish Devils that are on the team right now?   
 ADAM LARSSON: Yeah, I know three of them, Mattias Tedenby, Johan Hedberg, and Josefson.   
  
  Q. Do you think you'll have a chance to play with them and play on their team?   
 ADAM LARSSON: Yeah, of course, they're good guys. I know them pretty well.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT