CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: TEXAS A&M VS NORTH CAROLINA
December 28, 2020
Trey Morrison
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  Q. Trey, when playing a dual threat like Kellen Mond, is that something you have to adapt to downfield or is that something you've adapted to practicing for, trying to stop his running and passing ability?
 TREY MORRISON:   I think it's something we've adapted to.  We've played other quarterbacks, Ian Book, he was a great quarterback who was kind of dual threat and could kind of do the same things.  So we've already pretty much practiced for this.
 Q. You just mentioned Ian Book.  Is Kellen Mond one of those quarterbacks that you have to kind of alter the defensive game plan for, so you guys can try to limit him?
 TREY MORRISON:   Yeah, I feel like we have to a little bit, but I feel like it's just a great opportunity.
 Q. Trey, I know that your teammate Patrice Rene hasn't played a lot of football since he suffered that injury last year, but I'm curious, what's his impact been on the secondary for your career and over the years during his time with the Tar Heels?
 TREY MORRISON:   I mean, since I've been here, Patrice has been like a big brother to me.  He's a great leader of our group, so he's always out there vocally leading.  I mean, if he's not in the game he's cheering us on on the sideline and just leading in every way he can.
 Q. Going back to late in the Wake Forest game when there was a move to include some of the younger guys on defense like Tony and Ja'Qurious and also get the young guys into that rotation more up front, what has been the biggest difference in the defensive front being better with more of the younger guys being a part of the rotation?
 TREY MORRISON:   Can you say that again?  It was like skipping a little bit.
 Q. Going back to late in the Wake Forest game when there were some changes made on defense, Tony and Ja'Qurious playing a lot, and also the defense has played better since then.  From your vantage point, what is the difference up front for you guys defensively since that point?
 TREY MORRISON:   I mean, those freshmen guys are in for a reason.  They can all play, so I think they're a great addition to the team when they're on the field.
 Q. Is it just a matter of having more depth, so some of the other guys would maybe play 50 snaps before are better at 35 or 40 snaps, or is there anything else to it?
 TREY MORRISON:   Yeah, exactly, it's for depth.  Keep guys fresh out there.  We don't want guys too tired on the field.
 Q. Can you give us a scouting report on Texas A&M?
 TREY MORRISON:   I mean, Texas A&M has a very great line.  I think it's kind of like Notre Dame, very experienced, older guys.  I mean, the quarterback is a veteran, as well, so I mean, I think he's a great player.  He sees the field well and he can run, as well.  Two great tailbacks.  28, he's super good, and 0, they kind of line him everywhere on the field.  I think it's a great opportunity for us.
 Q. What are going to be the keys for the defense to be successful on Saturday?
 TREY MORRISON:   I feel like we need to stop the run and then the game is just based upon that after.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT