LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 6, 2009
Kristy McPherson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Why don't you run through the scorecard. 
 KRISTY McPHERSON: No. 2, hit 7-iron about 15 feet. 
 Birdied 4. Oh, yeah. I hit hybrid to about 14 feet. 
 Bogeyed 5. Hit 5-iron just off the right side of the green. Missed about a 5-footer. 
 6, hit pin-high left. Chipped up there eight feet. Made birdie. 
 7, hit 5-iron just right. Short-sided myself. Poor chip. Yada-yada. 
 9, chipped in just off the back of the green. 
 10, I hit sand wedge about 12 feet right of the hole. 
 12, hit sand wedge, made a 17-footer below the hole. 
 13, chipped it about eight feet. 
 17, hit 3-iron into the left bunker. Missed about a 5-footer. 
 18, hit it just back of the green. Hit a bad chip. Missed about a 10-footer. 
 JASON TAYLOR: You finished 12-under after three rounds of play at the State Farm Classic. Tied for the lead going into the final day. Not the best finish for you, but not a bad place to be entering day four. 
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Yeah, I'm just glad to be finished. It was tough out there. Yeah, finished with a couple bogeys. But, you know, I'm not gonna go home looking at that. Obviously, I would have liked to have finished better. Did a lot of good things out there. I had really good focus. I hit tee ball really well, which was really important today. Made a lot of birdies out there for the conditions we had. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions. 

 Q. A lot of girls talked about the wind the second day at the Kraft Nabisco. Was that comparable?
 KRISTY McPHERSON: I'm like Helen. I was on the good end of the stick at the Kraft. My last nine holes got pretty breezy. I wasn't out there when they were getting hit by tree limbs, balls were rolling everywhere. I was very fortunate at Kraft. 
 When I was out there today, I was kind of thinking about that, thinking it might be kind of like that. You know, it could have been worse out there. But it was definitely tough. Definitely a good test of golf. The wind was the exact opposite of what it has been. You're hitting golf shots we haven't had to hit in the last two days. A completely different golf course. No hole played how it did the last couple days. 

 Q. Cristie Kerr got to 14-under. So did you. The two or three holes down the stretch, with the wind, pretty tough finish?
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Yeah, I have no idea where Kerr started at. Wherever she finished, she had a pretty fancy round, whatever it was. 
 Yeah, 15's not easy. Had to hit three hybrid into 15. Had a good birdie opportunity there. 
 16, we're used to getting there in two, having a pretty easy birdie. It wasn't an easy birdie today. I had a good opportunity there, but didn't make it. 
 Then 17 was just the bad day for us to have a back left flag. Another three hybrid there, playing every bit of 200 yards into that hole. Just hit some bad shots coming down. 18, I feel like I hit a decent second shot in. We weren't sure if the wind was going to hurt it or carry it. Ended up carrying it just a little bit to the back of green. Got fooled by the chip shot and the putt. 
 I think that happened a lot out there today. The wind affected every shot, every putt, every chip. You couldn't go to sleep out there. It was tough conditions. 

 Q. Were there any holes where the wind created an advantage today, opened the door for you?
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Sure. I can't think of the holes now. 6 played a lot easier today. Holes that all the long hitters can normally get in in two and can't, I was able to get to the green. Made a simple up and down. Same thing as 13. 13 was straight downwind, which all the longer hitters might have had a chance to get there in two. I'm not sure they did the first two days. Today I was just hitting hybrid into it. Didn't hit a good hybrid. Pretty simple chip shot there. 
 Those two holes were the two that really switched and made them a lot simpler today. But other than that, I mean, there were a lot of holes where I would normally hit 7-iron or 8-iron in, I was hitting sand wedge. But I can't say that it made too many holes easier today with that wind. 

 Q. In terms of this year, tied for the lead going into the last day, I'm not sure what your situation was at Kraft the last day?
 KRISTY McPHERSON: I'm supposed to know that, aren't I? I don't know. Maybe I was tied for the lead. Maybe tied for the lead. 
 JASON TAYLOR: If not, one back. 
 KRISTY McPHERSON: I'm not sure. 

 Q. You've been here before. Is it one of the deals where if you get in these situations often enough, hopefully?
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Obviously I'd rather be sitting here with a two-shot lead. Kerr is saying the same thing. There's a lot of girls -- I can't imagine too many girls had a really strong finish out there on 17 and 18. If you played them even par, you were doing something special. 
 But, I mean, that's all you can do, is grind it out. Today was a grind. I'm worn out. See where it puts you. I would have taken 3-under before I teed it up on the 1st hole today, I promise you that. 

 Q. Solheim Cup. I'm not familiar with the points system. What would that do for you, a win? Put you in solid shape?
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Absolutely. You're never really in solid shape till that Sunday of British comes around. I'm bubbling a little more than I'd like to be right now. I'm right there. I think I'm ninth right now. 
 But, yeah, I mean, every week, you know, playing, you know, getting up more and more on the points there. You just got to play and see where you end up. Angela Stanford came up to me before this tournament started and she kind of got on me about Solheim Cup, about playing golf just to make points. 
 But, yeah, so, I mean, I'm not really thinking about that. I obviously would like to get my first win here. That would take care of itself with Solheim points. 

 Q. You mentioned Angela. Was last night your first visit to Busch Stadium?
 KRISTY McPHERSON: It was. 

 Q. Is there a long-term goal to go to every ballpark in the country?
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Well, I mean, I would eventually like to do that. I have a lot of ball parks to go to. We made a good stretch over the last week or so. Been to three different ball parks. New Yankee Stadium. Was up in New Jersey. First time at Busch Stadium. We enjoyed taking a little field trip. I love a good baseball game. I'm going to be happy no matter which stadium you put me in. 

 Q. Did I see on your twitter page where you lost your clubs at the airport flying in here? Is that right?
 KRISTY McPHERSON: I didn't lose 'em, but they didn't make it. Yeah, I flew in Monday morning with the intentions of coming out and getting a little bit of practice in. Clubs didn't come in. Angela came in 9:00 that night, so she scooped them up for me and brought them to me. I had them Tuesday morning. 

 Q. The State Farm situation, the title sponsor, you've been in this situation this year. Any general thoughts about that? There's a good field here this week. A good show of support. It's almost every week where there's a situation like this, isn't it?
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Yeah, I mean, it's tough right now. But I just hope -- I mean, we got a good crowd. Even Thursday, for a Thursday crowd, we had a great crowd out here. We love coming here, love the support of State Farm, just being able to come to Springfield and play. This is one of my favorite stops as far as great housing, people treat us really well around here. 
 There's not a lot that the players can do about it. Just hope that people come out and enjoy themselves and we put on a good show. Just hope that State Farm wants to keep us around next year. 
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. 
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT