LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
July 17, 2008
Kristy McPherson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JASON TAYLOR: Thanks for coming in. Great round. Currently tied for third at 7-under. Talk a little bit about your performance today.  
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Today was fairly simple golf, if there is such a thing. Hit every fairway. Only missed two greens and chipped in one of those that I missed.   
 I just stayed away form mistakes. The golf course here is in really great shape and the greens are rolling well and they're rolling out easily.   
 If you hit a good shot and give yourself lots of opportunities, some of them are just going to go in. I didn't do anything fancy today.   
 Hit it close a couple times and made one or two good putts that I really needed. Just stayed out of trouble and scored when it gave me something.  
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Several really low scores today. Christina Kim had a 63. Any time you shoot low you always feel like there's a couple more maybe you left out there. Several players said there is just a lot of potential for low scores out there today. What factors were out there? Were the greens holding really well? What was conducive to the low scores for so many people?   
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Yeah, the fairways are perfect so you didn't get too much bad lies there. The greens were rolling really well and holding well. I felt like you could throw it to the flag on most of the holes. Some of them were a little different.   
 But, yeah, the Par 5s, we don't get too many Par 5s are that reachable throughout the year usually. Out here all four of them are potentially reachable.   
 I felt like I gave one away on 16 out there. I'm one of the few people on the leaderboard that did not birdie it.   
 But other than that, you know, like I said, I didn't do anything fancy. It came pretty easy. I think it's going to be really scorable. When we made the turn I saw Sun Young up there and I thought we might see a 59 out here today. Still might see a 59 out here this week if they keep it how it is now.   
  
  Q. Just these last couple weeks you've had some top 10s. What's been going good for you? Has there been just one or two things that have given you a boost?   
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Yeah, I mean, I think I told you this yesterday. In Arkansas I switched back to my belly putter which I putted with at the end of the season last year and beginning this year.   
 Took it out and I just -- I don't know. Took it out just to prove a point, I guess. I don't know. Wasn't very smart. So I took it out and put it back in in Arkansas and just been putting well.   
 I've been really hitting the ball well all year and gave myself a ton of opportunities and just couldn't get anything in the hole.   
 Now I feel like if I hit it inside of ten, twelve feet I feel like I'm going to make it every time. That's a lot of putting right there, just knowing you're going to make it as opposed to thinking you might make it and you might not make it.  
 Just gives me a lot of confidence on the greens. I'm not hitting the ball any differently than I have all year I don't think. Just finally getting some putts in the hole and getting that confidence up.  
  
  Q. At Toledo here this past week I heard you had sort of a shoulder or neck problem. You got it fixed whatever day and went out and shot like a 64, I think.   
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Yeah, I was struggling with it last week the first round and shot 3-over. Shot 74 with no birdies. It was really a fight, and that probably the best I could have gotten out of that round the first day at Toledo, that first day there.  
 I've been working with the trainers every morning and afternoon. I'm going to go in there now after I leave here. I had a rib issue last year and it's all connected. You know, my body, I'm not physically in the best shape, I guess. But it's just been bothering me on my upper neck and top of my left shoulder there.   
 Had a few problems with it out there today, but going to go get worked on now and hopefully I'll wake up tomorrow and be feeling good.   
  
  Q. Some people started off really hot. You didn't start off cold, but you played steady and it's a warm day. Do you like the warm weather? You're going to be playing in the morning tomorrow.   
 KRISTY McPHERSON: I do like the warm weather. With me, I get a lot looser the hotter it gets. People complain when it gets 100 degrees. It's hot. It's a lot better than the alternative. I like it a lot better than the cold stuff.   
 But, yeah, I got on a pretty good stretch right there in the middle. I think I was, whatever it was, 6-under through the stretch of eight holes there.   
 But that was just, you know, feeling good. Once you start hitting it close it comes a little easier there.   
  
  Q. The warm weather, does what help your shoulder?  
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Absolutely. Absolutely. I take medicine every day anyway. I get up, and usually the later in the day the better I'm feeling, as I'm sure everyone does who has taken daily meds.   
 But, yeah, it loosens up. The heat out there gets it loosened up. Yeah, the heat definitely helps. Like I said, it's still got a little catch in it, but when it gets cold that's when it really starts to tighten up.  
  
  Q. Your trip to the Bronx a couple nights ago, did you get caught up on sleep?  
 KRISTY McPHERSON: I really did. I slept ten hours and I needed every bit of it. I was in bed about 10:30, 11:00 last night and was lucky to have an afternoon tee time and got to sleep in all I wanted. Hopefully -- Miss Stanford is out there. Hopefully she caught up on her sleep and is having a good day or she's going to blame it on me, too.  
  
  Q. You travel for a living, but this is a little different. You know, New York and everything. Are there times where you wake up and sometimes say, What town am I in?  
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Absolutely. Happens to us all the time. Every morning you wake up and you say, Where am I? Once you get up and you get moving you remember what you're doing and where you're going.  
 But, yeah, I actually did I wake up this morning and -- I actually woke up just before my alarm went off. I looked around and saw a golf course out my back window, and then to hit me.   
 Yeah, that happens to us a lot. That's part of the travel and part of the job there.  
  
  Q. You've had some good weeks here recently, but as far as a first round, is this one of the best out-of-the-box starts you've had?  
 KRISTY McPHERSON: Yeah, I'll take 65 every day, especially first round. First round you always want it. You know, like Toledo did not start off well the first round obviously and made a good comeback there.   
 But any time you can stay up towards the top of that leaderboard -- I mean, it's still a very long week. We've got three more days on a very scorable golf course.   
 But, yeah, I mean, anything that gets you that deep under par on the first day is a good place to be.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT