LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
November 22, 2009
Kristy McPherson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Kristy, thanks for coming in. If you would, just talk about what the last three days have been like, and now what it feels like to be the clubhouse leader.  
 KRISTY MCPHERSON: It's kind of weird to have two rounds under your belt after a Sunday afternoon. So, you know, I was lucky to play two uninterrupted rounds. That was nice to have.   
 But it's kind of weird having two days off in the middle of your tour championship. But, yeah, I mean, our goal today was to get it in before the sun went down, so we were happy to do that.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions.   
  
  Q. What did you do?  
 KRISTY MCPHERSON: I watched a lot of football yesterday; I went to a move the day before; a lot of nothing. Sit around and get delayed a couple hours at a time, so you can't really do a whole a lot. We were fortunate enough the first day they told us we weren't gonna play early, so we had pretty much all day.   
 Get a pedicure, go to a movie, eat a bunch, sit around, watch some football. You know.   
  
  Q. What movie did you see?   
 KRISTY MCPHERSON: Couples retreat. (Laughter.) Have you seen it? It was very funny. It was cute.  
  
  Q. Obviously this is a unique situation. Did you try to practice? Did you try to think about your game? Did you try to get away from golf? I mean, it's pretty unique you have such a big gap once a tournament starts?  
 KRISTY MCPHERSON: Yeah, I've never been much of a practicer, so I kind of enjoyed my two days off. The extent of my practice was about a 30-minute warmup yesterday before they told me I wasn't going out.   
 So, yeah, I'm not much into practicing, especially when it's raining and blowing 30 miles an hour. So I enjoyed being in my hotel.   
 But, yeah, I just wanted to play golf. Just ready to go play.   
  
  Q. Will the course play tougher tomorrow after all this traffic, or better?  
 KRISTY MCPHERSON: Well, I would imagine we would have to play lift, clean, and place again tomorrow. There's four or five holes out there that it's hard to find a dry spot.   
 But, you know, with the conditions, with the weather that we've had, it's about as good as we could hope for. They've done a great job to get it back to playable now.   
 You know, it's the first time in my three years we've had to go into Monday, but I think that's the only option this week.  
  
  Q. You said you played two uninterrupted rounds. You made it all the way through on Thursday and all the way through today?  
 KRISTY MCPHERSON: Yes. I was very fortunate to have a morning round Thursday, and I was done about 1:30 and didn't tee off today until 12:40.   
 So a couple days off in there. But, yeah, first tee I told Se Ri, if you ain't finishing, I'm going by myself. I told her, we going.   
 We had a twosome out there, and we were fortunate enough to be behind L.D. who, yeah, she's it's like not being on the golf course, so it's like being behind a twosome.   
 But we were fortunate to get through today.  
  
  Q. Do you feel like you got the lucky end of the draw?  
 KRISTY MCPHERSON: Absolutely. I know the other girls on that other slope are mad at me. But, I mean...  
 Yeah, I mean, everybody has been -- times you get the good draw and sometimes you get the bad. There's definitely good and bad waves this week. I was fortunate enough, like I said, to play two uninterrupted rounds, which not a lot of girls have done that.   
 But, you know, I've been on the bad end a couple times, too.   
  
  Q. With 120 players in the field, does it feel like any other week out here, or does it fell like a tour championship?  
 KRISTY MCPHERSON: Well, how many are in the field now? I think we had about 30 withdrawals, didn't we, after two days? Everybody decided they weren't gonna sit around anymore.   
 But, yeah, it's a little odd. I've seen girls that I haven't seen in a couple months. You know, it's kind of a different feeling for a tour championship, but I think they kind of wanted to do the unique cut style.   
 And, you know, in order to do that, you have to start with 120 players. But, yeah. It's still a competition. You still got the best players in the world here, and still playing golf.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT