NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 18, 2010
Stan Van Gundy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Boston Celtics 95
  Orlando Magic 92

 Q. Stan, you get the rebound with seven seconds to go. Did you need a time-out before the clock keeps running? 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: Yes. That was all covered in the time-out. Of course. We were playing, we had six second differential. We were playing for a stop and an immediate time-out. 
 It would have made a big difference because if you watch the last play, Rashard got open. But because we're inbounding in the back court, Finley was back in the passing lane and we could not make the pass to him. 

 Q. How do you dig out of this now? Is your bunch stunned? 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: It's not a matter of digging out of this. It's a matter of going up there and you have to win a game. That part is simple, I don't mean it's easy to do. But you have to go play the next game and win it. That's all. There's no like magic to like you're in a hole 2-0. You have to go win a game. 
 We played a lot harder tonight, but we don't sustain what works, we won't stay with it, we play times when we're moving the ball, we're getting good shots and then guys want to come off, no passes and shoot the ball. And our shot selection is not good enough against a good defensive team; we are forcing shots. I mean, we'll watch it again tomorrow. Hopefully we'll make the corrections. But, you know, I thought we were a little better. But our shot selection just was terrible, and we didn't play smart enough. You know, I thought we played hard enough. We struggled with Rondo's pick-and-rolls. We obviously struggled with Pierce. But I thought we fought hard. But we didn't play smart enough and we didn't sustain what worked offensively. So... 

 Q. Stan, can you guys win if Rashard continues to play like he has over the first two games? 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: I don't think Rashard has played badly. I just think -- they are staying home on him. It's incumbent on me as far as Rashard. I have to find a way to get him involved. It's not that he's playing badly. He's doing a good job defensively on Garnett. It's not like Garnett has been going off at the other end. That match-up has been -- both guys scored in their last series and both of them are struggling to score right now. So it's going both ways. 

 Q. How are you going to control the tempo come Saturday? 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: I don't really understand that question. 

 Q. (No microphone).
 STAN VAN GUNDY: I thought Dwight was really good. What we've got to get him to do now in Game 3 is put together his rebounding and blocked shots from Game 1 with his offense from Game 2. So offensively he was a lot better tonight. But he wasn't as much of a presence inside defensively. But I thought he played with great poise on the offensive end. And we did a good job getting him the ball. He converted. We just got to get both of those ends put together for Game 3. 

 Q. Stan, given the stakes that were -- when you're down 0-1, obviously the stakes are much higher. Did you feel like guys got lost in the emotion, the mood swings, that sort of thing, worrying about whistles? 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: I don't know about that. If we got caught up in anything, it was forcing plays offensively. I mean, it boggles my mind how many times you're going to go in and just try to jump into people and think you're going to get a foul called and complain about the call. Just keep doing it and doing it and doing it and doing it. 
 We're not taking good enough shots. I mean, that's the bottom line. When we move the ball, we got decent shots. Not great, because they're a great defensive team. We didn't get them all the time. But we had some periods of play there where we played very well against a very good defense. What we have to do is we have to play smarter. We have to take better shots, OK, and we have to sustain what works. 

 Q. Is that a lack of patience against a good defensive team, where they make you go second, third, fourth option? 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: No, actually when we went second, third and fourth option we were good. It's when we want to do it on the first option. I thought we took some very tough shots. A lot of tough shots -- OK, this is when the defense is forcing you into stuff, when you go, you move the ball five or six passes, you run two or three pick-and-rolls, and the shot clock's down and you have to take a tough shot. And they did that to us sometimes, that is great defense. When you're taking a tough shot with 16 on the shot clock, when you're taking a tough shot with 18 on the shot clock, that's bad offense. That's a lack of patience. That's not moving the ball. 
 Now, there's no guarantee that if you pass the ball and go -- they're a great defensive team. But the only way you're going to be able to get good shots most of the time is by moving the ball side to side and playing to the second and third option. We did it at times, and then we don't stick with it. 

 Q. Doc thought that J.J. might have been expecting a foul at the end. 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: No. Look, we said in the thing we're calling time-out. He just didn't call the time-out. I'm not going to jump his ass, anything else. But I'm also not going to make an excuse. We didn't make the right play at the end. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT