NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 16, 2010
Stan Van Gundy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Guard Dwight one-on-one and not help off the shooters. How big a factor is that? 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: Obviously, it helps them a lot. I think that, you know, they pretty much guarded everyone one-on-one. I think we weren't able to score one-on-one. The biggest problem on the offensive end, though, clearly was the turnovers. We said it going in. It was what did Cleveland in in the last series against them. Very physical, very tough defensively. 18 turnovers. We're not giving ourselves a chance to win with 18 turnovers. So we have got to be able to handle the ball better against them. We've got to get better ball movement. And we either have to be able to convert better in the paint or we've got to draw help and make passes. One or the other. Because we just weren't -- I thought we got the ball into the paint, both on drives and some paint catches for Dwight, but we were not very efficient. 

 Q. Stan, it seemed like especially towards the fourth quarter with J.J. and whatnot, there does seem to be some drives available the way their defense is playing. Is that something that --
 STAN VAN GUNDY: We'll have to take a look at that. But we drove the ball a lot in the first half into blocked shots and difficult shots and everything else. I didn't think that it was a lack of our guys attacking. According to this, 42 shots in the paint. That's not taking into account the times we got fouled. So we got the ball into the paint. We weren't real efficient down in there. A lot of the times attacking. Also, which it doesn't show there, that's just shots. We got into the paint and turned the ball over. 
 I didn't think it was a lack of attacking. I thought it was a lack of being able to either finish or make a play to an open man. 

 Q. Stan, that first quarter and a half when the offense really struggled, how much of that do you think was rust? And how much --
 STAN VAN GUNDY: No, I think that's -- again, the schedule is the schedule. No, I don't think it had anything to do with that. I think it had more to do with their defense. I didn't think we played with either great energy or very good focus on the way we wanted to play the game. 
 So, no, I'm not going to take that as an excuse. We just didn't play well. But, let me make this clear, a lot of it had to do with their defense. It was really good. 

 Q. Stan, what was Ray Allen doing out there that allowed him to score? What were you guys not doing against him to make him so effective? 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: I don't know, Ray Allen can really shoot. And he's always on the move. He and Pierce both had real good nights, as did Rasheed Wallace. Some other guys didn't. I didn't think our defense was real good either, to be quite honest. I think we have to make some adjustments there. 
 The only thing that really kept us even having any kind of chance and kept it close at all was the rebounding. The offensive rebounding. We got a lot of second chances. I thought particularly in the second half. I thought our guys made an effort to try to stay in the game. But when we got some better offensive opportunities, then we couldn't stop them. We could just never put things together. 

 Q. Jameer took I think -- obviously took a lot of the scoring load in the first couple of minutes in the second half. Then it just seemed he stopped being as assertive as he was in the first couple of minutes. 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: I think their defense changed. I think the shots he hit, they were going under on his pick-and-rolls. He pulled up and hit some jumpers. I thought their pick-and-roll defense got better. 

 Q. Coach, you haven't lost in a month and a half. 14 games. Do you worry at all about how your team responds to a loss? What do you tell them? 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: No. We have to come in tomorrow and look at things and try to get better. Our team has responded to everything. We got outplayed today. That's it. It will come down to -- I've said it, I believe it, it will come down to how well we play. You know, we've got to find better ways -- part of it is on me -- we have to find better ways offensively to attack their defense. We have to quit turning the ball over and we have to make some defensive adjustments. It will come down to how well we play. Our guys aren't going to fall apart. Hell, they got down 20 in this game and they didn't collapse. 
 That's not our team. This is all about winning. Our team doesn't have to prove they can bounce back from adversity and all of that crap. They've done all of that. It's about winning games. 

 Q. Stan, 19 minutes for J.J., nine in the fourth quarter. What were the circumstances that dictated that? 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: Well, I mean, I think that our offense was better when he was in the game. I mean, I thought especially with he and Vince in the game together, that's probably our most offensively skilled lineup in terms of being able to have everybody handling the ball, running pick-and-rolls and things like that. I thought we were able to execute offensively a little bit better with him in the game.

 Q. (No microphone.)
STAN VAN GUNDY: I hope now it's going to be longer. You don't know. You don't know how long it's going to be. It's going to be tough. There's no question. We said it's not going to be easy. I don't care what adjustments we make or what we come up with, it's a very good, very, very, very physical defensive team. It's not going to be easy. I mean, nothing will come easy in this series. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT