NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2010
Stan Van Gundy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Do you do any planning --
 STAN VAN GUNDY: Not at all. I'm just like a fan on that one. I just hope that it gets worked out to the good of anyone and to the good of the league. 

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: Well, I don't think, if you look, he hasn't played quite as well, but I think most of those problems were early in the year. I think he's played much better the last month or so. I think that he's a young guy, and he had a lot going on in December with the signing and us matching the offer and the European Championships and everything else. Obviously, you know, his hope was to be in a situation where he could get a lot more playing time before he could have a chance to start in Dallas. And then we matched the offer, and I think his focus was a little off early in the year. He wasn't really focused on doing what he needed to do on an everyday basis for our team. 
 I think since our West Coast trip, he's really changed that around, and I think he's been great. He's played very well. So I'm really happy with the way he is playing now. But it's tough. I mean, I think sometimes we expect these guys to be perfect, and if you've got a lot going on, it puts a lot of thoughts in his head and everything else. He dealt with some difficult situations, and now he's handled it well and he's ready to move on, and he'll have a great last 28 games for us. 

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 STAN VAN GUNDY: It's obviously a great honor. I always sort of feel really happy for the guys that are here for the first time. I think we've got five of them on the East team. These guys work real hard, and I think that as some of these guys go on, whether it's LeBron or Dwight or Kevin Garnett or Paul Pierce, and they've been here over and over and over again, they almost start taking it for granted. They know it's an honor, but I think they start taking it for granted. 
 The guys that are here for the first time look at it differently, and I think they have a different perspective and really feel the impact of it, and I enjoy watching those guys in this environment, and I'm anxious to see them and the other guys that are here for the first time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT