NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v MAGIC
May 23, 2010
Stan Van Gundy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Any comments last night for a tendency for people, whenever they're in the position they're in, for people when they get tough (Indiscernible) How much have you talked about that?
 STAN VAN GUNDY: We have talked about that. I think what happens is people want to escape, and then people start worrying about where the blame is going to be placed.
 It's not just players. It's coaches and everybody. Instead of having a mental toughness in a situation like this to get yourself ready to play Game 4, you start, you know, subconsciously -- not even subconsciously, sometimes making comments to sort of separate and let everybody know it's not my fault.
 It's not -- you know, anything else. And coaches can do it as well as players. I think you have to avoid that. The idea is we're getting ready to play Game 4. And part of that is when you look at film and things like that, you have to step up and take responsibility.
 I got to take some of it as a coach. A big part of it. I think some of our defensive things should have been adjusted before now. I didn't make those adjustments. I think the play-calling hasn't been as good as it needs to be. I got to take the responsibility for that. And then the players have got to look at film. When they're not running back, not blocking out, not rotating defensively, they got to take responsibility. It can't be, wait a minute, don't blame me.
 It's not a matter of blame. I'm not blaming a single guy out here. It's a matter of taking responsibility and getting better and winning Game 4. That's what it's about. You have to stay strong with that.

 Q. What did you see at the practice today?
 STAN VAN GUNDY: I thought they were fine. But, again, I thought we had three really good days leading up to Game 3 too, in terms of preparation. I thought they were good today. But it's a matter of what we bring on to the floor tomorrow night, and how long we sustain it, and how well we stay the course here.

 Q. Will you try to just win one game and get back home?
 STAN VAN GUNDY: Absolutely. First of all, that's what it's been about. We've got to win one game. Then you get back home and you know if you can ever do that, win Game 4 and get back home and get a win, you come back up here and the whole mood of everything changes. Now Game 6 is like a pressure game for them.
 So the one thing we have not done yet in this series, they have played it extremely well. But as we know for the first -- from the first two series, when you're playing from out in front and from a lead the whole time, it's a lot different than if the pressure gets on you. We haven't put any pressure on them. We need to start that by winning a game. We have to win Game 4.

 Q. Stan, you were pretty hard on yourself last night. Doesn't sound like your opinion has changed too much today, or has it?
 STAN VAN GUNDY: No. Look, but I'm also not, I mean, you know, crying in my soup here. I haven't done a good job. And I need to do a better job. That's the same way I think the players need to think. It's not woe is me and the whole thing. I haven't done a good job. The series isn't over, and I plan to do a much better job tomorrow night.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT