NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: BRAVES v DIAMONDBACKS
October 16, 2001
Craig Counsell
Reggie Sanders
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Craig, you seem to like October baseball, just the way you keep coming up big.  Would you talk about that? 

CRAIG COUNSELL:  Well, I mean it's a great time to play.   I'm just trying to do my job.  I'm trying to contribute to wins.  If we all take the attitude of just contribute something every day, then like we've been doing, that formula seems to be working.  It's somebody different every day.  I think that's the strength of this team. 


Q.  Reggie, you're playing against the Braves.  Obviously a lot has been made of what you did there last year.  How nice is it for you to get this series off on the right foot? 

REGGIE SANDERS:  Well, for me, what happened in the past is really in the past.  For me, I try to just focus on the now and the now is for me to help the ballclub in whatever way I can do that.  It's great to get the win because it motivates the team even more, gets us up for the games even more.  Scoring a run in the first inning, Randy had a chance to relax a little more, gave our team a little more confidence to go out there and play.  So that's the way I view that. 


Q.  For both guys, what's it like to play behind Randy when he's pitching the way he was pitching today? 

REGGIE SANDERS:  Well, I knew he was gonna pitch well.  When I walked into the clubhouse this morning, he was putt-putted, conversing with the guys.  And when I see a relaxed Randy like that, that just lets me know that he's on top of it; he's very focused and there's no stress.  So I knew from the get-go he was going to have a great game. 

CRAIG COUNSELL:  Well, it's fun.  I mean, I think one thing is sometimes it's, from the infield, you're kind of sitting there in awe almost.  You're watching him like just amazed at what he's doing.  He strikes out so many hitters, sometimes there's not a lot of action and stuff.  But it was fun today.  I mean, you kind of felt like you were with him and you could see that he was on with everything that he was doing.  He was throwing a slider for a strike to get ahead in the count.  He was throwing fastballs away for strikes consistently.  I mean, it was a great performance by him.

REGGIE SANDERS: The most amazing thing is for him to do it all nine innings consistently.  That's impressive.  


Q.  You're the only one with a ring. 

REGGIE SANDERS:  Stottlemyre, too. 


Q.  Have you brought your ring around to show anybody? 

CRAIG COUNSELL:  No, I haven't.  These guys all know that I played in a World Series and won a World Series.  But I don't bring it around or anything.  I mean, we're all trying to get there again.  It's a tough, tough thing to do.  I realize this time around how tough it is.  I think I thought it was easy the first time.  I got spoiled.  But it's  -- I'm not going to show it in people's faces or anything like that.  It's sitting in a closet, to be honest with you, at home. 


Q.  Reggie, does he have a nickname? 

CRAIG COUNSELL:  Bad question. 

REGGIE SANDERS:  (Laughing).  Yeah, but I don't want to release it.  That, you know, we've learned as players what stays in the clubhouse stays in the clubhouse.  So I'm gonna stick with that.  Sorry.  I got his back. 


Q.  For publication, do you call him Rudy? 

REGGIE SANDERS:  Next question, please. 


Q.  Were you at all concerned on that ball Giles hit that it was going to go out?  Did you have a bead on it all the way?

REGGIE SANDERS:  I had a bead on it all the way.  I just thought that it wasn't going to carry as much as it did.  When I saw it up, I figured it was going to be right there.  It continued to carry, and I had a bead on it all the time.  I stayed sideways.  So I didn't have any problems with it whatsoever. 


Q.  Craig, couple of us guys in the media have been calling you an Old Yankee Tommy Heinrich, Old Reliable.  Possibly New Reliable is a better nickname.  Is that right up your  alley? 

CRAIG COUNSELL:  Well, I mean I like  -- reliable is a good characteristic I think.  I'm the kind of player that I'm not going to come out there and I can't win a game by myself.  Like Reggie can, with the home run.  But I just try to bring the same thing every day, and like I said, do things that help us win every day.  If you do your part, and everybody else does their part, then that adds up to a win. 


Q.  Do you like being a scrappy player?  Do you wish you could be Reggie Sanders at times? 

CRAIG COUNSELL:  Well, I don't know if I want to be Reggie Sanders (laughter).  But I'd love to be able to hit 30 home runs, I tell you that.  But that's just not going to happen.  So you got to do what you're good at.  Reggie's good at hitting home runs.  I got to do the little things.


Q.  Do you like being a scrappy player? 

CRAIG COUNSELL:  Well, I mean, I think  -- I don't know.  I like  -- you like doing what you do, no question about it.  I mean, if you're offering me power, I'll take it (laughter). 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT