NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 10, 2001
Reggie Sanders
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Where can I get one of those hats?
 
REGGIE SANDERS: My wife. 
 
Q.  How much are you following the Braves games if they are earlier than yours?  Did you watch any of the game yesterday?  And keeping track of today's scores?
 
REGGIE SANDERS: Yes, we're watching it a lot.  We want to play Houston or the Braves, and it's important for us to see whose pitching and the way they're pitching.  So we're definitely watching very closely, as well as everybody else. 
 
Q.  But I assume you would rather play the Braves since you would be able to go home?
 
REGGIE SANDERS: So true.  That's absolutely right.  I would love to face those guys because I do have a home there and I think that we would match up very well with those guys.  We played them very well in the regular season, so I think we are a very good match up for them.  So there you have it. 
 
Q.  Are there similar feelings between being with this team with the strong pitching and the expectations as the teams you were with before?
 
REGGIE SANDERS: Well, you know, it's funny about this team.  For some reason, this seems like a true veteran team.  When I came here this year, it seems like I've been here for four or five years, and it's only been a full season.  And that just tells you how relaxed this clubhouse is, how the players gel very well, they welcome new players in.  And having Curt Schilling and Randy Johnson, you know, is a plus and also a good thing for me to be on their side.  And with Atlanta and Cincinnati in '95 we went to post-season, those were very good teams also.  But there's just something special about the Diamondbacks I just can't explain. 
 
Q.  How satisfying was this season?  And then getting two hits yesterday, how satisfying was that since you had struggles in post-season?
 
REGGIE SANDERS: It was very gratifying for me, because as a baseball player, you don't think about what happened in the past.  You've got to worry about the now.  And that's the way I see that.  What had happened in the past is behind me and I've got to focus on what I need to do today, like tomorrow  -- I mean yesterday I got two hits, that's over with.  I have to focus on what I need to do today to help the ball club.  For one, I've learned how to overcome those fears in post-season; not worrying about the past and worrying about the now. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT