TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 12, 2013
Kerry Hyder
Kenny Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Kerry, talk about the defense and their ability just to respond today? 
KERRY HYDER:   We played really well, but still have some room for improvement especially in the red zone.   We stopped and get a field goal in the red zone, so we have some work to do in that area this week.

Q.   How is it dealing with being put in bad situation after bad situation? 
KERRY HYDER:   Well, we don't think about it like that.   We understand it's a team game, and if you put the ball down, we've got to go play defense.   That's all we worry about is going out there and playing defense.

Q.   You've been 5 for 16 on third down.   Could you talk about playing on third down a little bit? 
KERRY HYDER:   We call that the money down.   We're always trying to get off the field on third down.   When third down comes up, we're trying to get off the field and get the ball back to the offense.

Q.   Talk about the big plays today. 
KERRY HYDER:   It was really a team effort, more of a hustle and team effort.   Guys would get the ball and cut back, and guys were there to make the tackle.   It was really a team effort out there today.

Q.   That portion of the turnovers, would you say this is the best game they've played? 
KERRY HYDER:   We're always going to try to win the game, but at the end of the day we got the W.   So it's the best game for us.

Q.   Speaking of Ws, how does it feel to be 6‑0 at this point? 
KERRY HYDER:   It would feel better to be 7‑0.   We've still got work to.   We're going to enjoy this one tonight and get back to work tomorrow.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
KERRY HYDER:   It feels good.   I always remembered a couple years ago we weren't able to do that, so it feels good to have that in our back pocket.   But we still want to keep stacking the chips and see what Bowl we can get to.

Q.   Was this the best game for your defensive front? 
KERRY HYDER:   Yeah, I think we did a good job controlling the line of scrimmage.   Again, we've still got some room for improvement.   We didn't get enough sacks, we feel like.   We're trying to get back to work and we'll do more next week.

Q.   (Indiscernible) score the touchdown, and then they called it back.   What did they think? 
KERRY HYDER:   Of course frustration at first, but after that we've got to let it go and get right back out there and go to work.

Q.   You guys didn't let that bother you.   Is that just the make‑up of the team or is there somebody on the field or on the sideline that's kind of helping keep everybody in check? 
KERRY HYDER:   That's really our make‑up.   We go out there and we play defense.   Something bad happens, let it go.   Play the next play.   We thought we had a touchdown.   We've got another opportunity to get a touchdown once we get back on the field.

Q.   Getting into the meat of the schedule, do you think your defensive unit is stronger this year than last year? 
KERRY HYDER:   Definitely.   We've got some old guys and a great mixture of younger guys in there.   I feel like we've got the leadership to keep the defense going throughout the rest of the schedule.

Q.   What is the atmosphere like on the sideline?   You go back a year ago from now.   What is the difference between last year and this year on the sidelines? 
KERRY HYDER:   We've always had guys excited on the sideline.   The home crowd, everything is great.   We're always energetic on the sideline.   I won't say it's a big difference, but guys are excited for four quarters.

Q.   What's it like in the locker room to have (Indiscernible) you guys in control most of the first half? 
KERRY HYDER:   We understand it was 0‑0 at that point, 21‑21, whoever wants it the most is going to win it in the second half.   That's all we were talking about at halftime. 

Q.   Did your running backs feel any extra need (Indiscernible)?
KENNY WILLIAMS:   Not really.   Davis in practice and stuff, he does a great job of coming in when his name is called.   When one man goes down, the next man has to step up and he did a great job doing it.

Q.   Do you feel the running backs kind of turned the corner?   And you were over 250.   Is the corner kind of a turning point for you guys?
KENNY WILLIAMS:   Yeah, speaking on behalf of SaDale and Dre, I think we have to give a lot of credit to our O‑line.   They came today and blew the D‑line off the ball and made our job really easy today.

Q.   You saved a touchdown on special teams today.   You ran that guy down from behind.   That may have been your best play of the game? 
KENNY WILLIAMS:   Yeah, we try to pride ourselves on no matter what position you play, if you start or not, you're going to play special teams.   The coach did a great job of putting anybody on special teams who wants to be there.

Q.   Was it okay to say the game was even because of special teams?
KENNY WILLIAMS:   Not really.   It happens.   It's football.   You just have to get it together and everyone step up as a team.

Q.   Were you guys frustrated in the middle of the game that you couldn't build a bigger lead? 
KENNY WILLIAMS:   That frustration comes.   We pride ourselves on being one of the best offenses out there.   Seeing that we weren't scoring, our defense did a great job of holding them.   Just got to give all credit to them.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
KENNY WILLIAMS:   We try not to look at the score until the end of the game.   We try to just keep our composure and just play until the fourth quarter is over with.

Q.   Do you think this was your best overall game, you personally? 
KENNY WILLIAMS:   I put it there up.   I don't really go back and look on best games.   I just try to come out and play as hard as I can for the team.

Q.   How does it feel to be Bowl eligible? 
KENNY WILLIAMS:   It feels great knowing that our hard work is paying off.   But we have more games out there to play, so we have to get other things done.

Q.   Talk about priding yourself in the blocking game.   I mean, you guys stepped up big time as a running back group to kind of protect Webb today.   Talk about that. 
KENNY WILLIAMS:   Well, the running back room, we always talk about it.   Everybody can run the ball.   That's why you're there and you're a running back.   But you have to separate yourself by being able to block good.   We do pride ourselves on that.

Q.   It's one thing to run the ball throughout the course of the game.   But when it's crunch time, you run the clock out, the running backs kind of kill the game? 
KENNY WILLIAMS:   It's exciting.   We get excited when coach wants to put the ball in our hands.   We take it as a challenge.   We step up as a group.

Q.   Did you know game planning during the week that you'd all have this many opportunities today? 
KENNY WILLIAMS:   Not really, but you've just got to roll with it.

Q.   What has the offense done to try to maybe (Indiscernible) so far this season? 
KENNY WILLIAMS:   We just go out there and try to play our game.   We try to avoid turnovers, keep our composure and just play the game of football.

Q.   Four out of five times the offense scored in the red zone today.   Talk about what changed about the red zone. 
KENNY WILLIAMS:   That was big for us.   We feel like we just can't go down there and not get points.   We can't leave points on the field.   So in the red zone, that's crunch time.   I mean, everyone has to be composed and just ready to go.

Q.   Talk about Washington and his production today, talk about your fellow teammate. 
KENNY WILLIAMS:   Oh, man, Dre looked great.   He looked like he's never torn his ACL before.   That's the Dre I remember.   He played his butt off today.   I'm proud of him.

Q.   Talking about jumping over a guy at one point.   You might have paid the price a little bit.   Talk about that a little. 
KENNY WILLIAMS:   When your adrenaline is pumping, you're going to try to do anything to get those extra yards.   That's basically what was going through my head. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT