NYC HALF MARATHON
March 15, 2012
Hilda Kibet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you tell me a bit about your training for this race?  
HILDA KIBET:   This race is very important for me leading up to the Olympics games, and I qualified last April in Rotterdam.  
   
 Q.   Was that in a half marathon?  
HILDA KIBET:   That was full marathon.   I ran 2:24, which was enough to go for Olympic Games, so now everything is leading to Olympic Games, so what I'm doing at the moment is just some qualified road races, half marathon and 10K.   Yeah, I feel like, yeah, the training is going good, not yet in really top shape, and that's why I'm coming this week to come here to test myself.   
   
 Q.   When will you start hard‑core Olympic training?  
HILDA KIBET:   This will be May, three months before, and I'm going back to Kenya, but in May I want to come back to Boulder to train for the marathon.  
   
 Q.   So you're going to Kenya until you come back to Boulder?  
HILDA KIBET:   Yes.   It's a good place.   I have been there one time, and it was really, really nice.   
   
 Q.   Have you been to London and seen the course?  
HILDA KIBET:   I'm going next week on Friday.   I ran one time a 10K there, but I will go on Friday to see the course.   
   
 Q.   So are the other members of your team already decided, as well?   
HILDA KIBET:   Lornah Kiplagat is running, so we're going to run together the marathon, and so far‑‑  
   
 Q.   Will you be working with Lornah over the next couple months to kind of help each other?  
HILDA KIBET:   Going back to Kenya, there's a good team, and I'm training with‑‑ yeah, very good ladies who are running between 2:24, 2:23, 2:19.  
   
 Q.   You've got a birthday coming up?  
HILDA KIBET:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   How are you celebrating?   
HILDA KIBET:   Not too much, I think.   Seems like I never celebrated my birthday until I came to Holland in 2000, 2001, then I started celebrating, but not always.   Not much, just a little bit.   
   
 Q.   And what are the other races you have scheduled coming up?  
HILDA KIBET:   Coming up, I'm not very sure yet, but a few‑‑ I think two 10Ks, three 10Ks.   And I really love to be here because I've been here several times, I think five times, and in the beginning of‑‑  
   
 Q.   In New York you mean?  
HILDA KIBET:   In New York.   I ran the Mini 10K and half marathon.  
   
 Q.   Did you run the Mini last year or the year before?  
HILDA KIBET:   No, I run in 2008 and I won, and this half marathon I won in 2007, so it's a good feeling to be here because I really improve every year when I come here, and I think that's helped me a lot because always there's a lot of very good athletes, qualified athletes, and that's why I am here today and Sunday, running with two marathon runners who are in the Olympics, so this will be a little bit exciting.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT