LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2019
Maurice Harkless
Patrick Patterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What were your impression of this Clippers team and franchise? They had a surprising year last year by some standards. What was your impression of them before, and now that you're part of the team what are you impressed with this team now?  
PATRICK PATTERSON: With me, it's just outside looking in, every time I played against them just the incredible amount of work that they put into the game. Always a tough opponent no matter what. They played together, they played hard, they played with each other out on that court.   
So just knowing that every time you play against them it's going to be a tough game no matter what players are going to be out there.   
MAURICE HARKLESS: Yeah, similar to what he said. They always brought that toughness and that grittiness to every game every. It would never be an easy game against them no matter who they had on the floor, and hasn't changed since I've been here at least.   
 Q.  Can you guys talk about Montrezl Harrell and the type of player he is and the type of conversations you guys have had?  
PATRICK PATTERSON: Tough, physical, energetic, speaks his mind. Not afraid of anyone. Doesn't back town.   
Conversation has just been about getting to know each other. Newly acquired to this team, so just trying to talk to as many guys as possible, get to know them, become family, enjoy being around each and every individual, and focus on the season.   
Focus on this year. Talk about dreams, aspirations, and goals individually and collectively as a team.   
MAURICE HARKLESS: To me Trez is just one of those guys that's going to do whatever it takes to win a game. He plays extremely hard. Wears his emotions on his sleeve. He goes out every night and leaves it on the floor, and that's the kind of teammates I like to have.   
 Q.  As two of the faces with this team and this roster, what has it been for both of you that you're looking to bring to the Clippers?  
PATRICK PATTERSON: With me, defense. I think it's just like my ninth year in the league, so just experience, veteran. Just a guy in the league who has been around for a while and just offering my thoughts. Out there on the court, just defense and just shooting.   
MAURICE HARKLESS: I think I just want to add to what they already have built here, that toughness. I think I bring that with my game. Just impacting the game and just trying to help win games. Go out there and try to do anything I can on any given night to help my team win, and I think that fits right in here.   
 Q.  Mo, you were a part of that really exciting first round western conference playoff series against Oklahoma City and of course Paul George. Has that come up at all?  
MAURICE HARKLESS: It's a sensitive subject. For this guy, too. We talked about it a little bit. He asked me about the shot. Everybody knows what I thought about it. We didn't really talk too much about it. We're on the same team now, and that's what we're focused on.   
 Q.  And then one more. As people that have either played Paul George closely in a playoff series or played with him, what can you say about Paul and how both of you guys round out that board, rotation, by complementing guys like Paul and Kawhi?  
MAURICE HARKLESS: You know, with Paul, you know, he's obviously a tough guy to play against, and Kawhi as well. Let's just say that I'm glad we're on the same side now.   
I'm looking forward to being out there playing with them and just bringing the same energy and play that I brought last year when we were on opposite sides of the floor.   
PATRICK PATTERSON: Yeah, same thing. Trying to do whatever I can to help out, whatever is asked of me, and putting my all into it.   
 Q.  You guys are both veterans who have been on good teams, teams that have made deep playoff runs. What stands out or is different about this roster?  
MAURICE HARKLESS: I think just the focus that we've had since day one. I mean, since I've gotten here with the pickup, with the work outside, just been really intense. That's how good teams are built. It starts in September, August. I think that we embraced that here. I should say they've embraced it and I kind of just fell into it.   
I'm looking forward to being out there and experiencing the season with these guys.   
PATRICK PATTERSON: Same thing. Everyone is focused. Mindset coming in early September, everyone has pretty much been here the entire month. From the work putting in on the court to hanging out talking to each other off the court, you can tell there is some type of drive. There is some type of force in everyone's minds for this season.   
 Q.  Where does that drive and that force start?  
PATRICK PATTERSON: With yourself individually just realizing the opportunity that's in front of you, realizing the type of talent we have on the team, and most importantly, realizing this moment, you only get this one opportunity.   
So all these factors just coming together and just everyone just enjoying playing alongside one another out there.   
 Q.  Question is for both of you. Obviously you come from two different teams. What is the biggest adjustment you feel you have to make this year coming to this Clippers squad?  
PATRICK PATTERSON: For me, it's just when you come to any new situation it's just finding your role and being the best you can be in that role given to you. So coming to this new team, new situation, a lot of players, a lot of bodies, a lot of guys that can go out there and do their job to the best of their extent.   
Just being given a role and being the best I can be that role that's given to me.   
MAURICE HARKLESS: Just the same thing. Being able to embrace any situation and make the most of it. I feel like this year I'll have an opportunity to do a lot of different things and play a lot of different roles throughout the season. Just being able to adjust and adapt on a night-to-night basis.   
 Q.  Mo, you were traded. Patrick, you chose the Clippers. Mo share the experience of being traded. Were you surprised? Were you happy with the result?  
MAURICE HARKLESS: Yeah, that was actually kind of weird. First I got the phone call I was getting traded. I thought I was going to Miami. And then I'm not sure if it was the same day or the next day, I got a phone call saying I was actually coming here.   
Just a new opportunity for me is always a good thing. It's an opportunity to make whatever you want out of it, so that's the way I look at it. I look at a new opportunity as a good thing. I get to come here and pretty much make my own story. It's kind of like an opportunity to just make whatever I want of it.   
It's in my control, and I just got to come in every day and make the most of it, accomplish these goals that I have.   
 Q.  Patrick, you were on that (indiscernible) that seemed to have a disappointing end to the season. What do you think happened there? What lessons will you take from that going into this season with the Clippers' who have high expectations and would deem many results...  
PATRICK PATTERSON: Not going to get into details with that, but just a combination of things from players, coaches, owners, just whole entire team. Just one big effort as far as us failing, as far as the season not going the way we want to. It's just a combination of everything throughout the course of the season, and also in the playoffs as well. So that's all I'll say with that.   
But to make sure it doesn't happen with this team, we have so many guys, veterans, so many guys who have years of experience. So many guys that been through trials and tribulation, hungry, from Mo, myself, Kawhi, Pat, Trez, Lou. So many different guys, so many different personalities, so many experiences in life. Just coming in here from day one and seeing the hungriness in everyone's eyes and that togetherness, and just try our best not to have the season go the opposite direction.   
 Q.  Patrick, last year you said you needed to get passing out of your mind because you passed up on too many good looks. Do you still feel you're too passive with the ball or do you feel you've become more of an aggressive scorer?  
PATRICK PATTERSON: Oh, yes, since we've been back the beginning of this month and started playing pickup, the first thing Pat Bev said to me is, Yo, Pat, shoot the ball. A couple pickups, a couple games in here just trying to get out of that mindset of overpassing the ball, passing up opportunities, chances to shoot. Having conversation with coaching staff and other fellow teammates.   
Gradually getting back to it. As we go through training camp, get shooting on my mind rather than trying to make the next pass.   
 Q.  This is for both of you. Do either of you have an opinion on the ninja style headband ban, and could we see either of you, possibly both of you, start a new trend with head wear this season?  
MAURICE HARKLESS: I don't know why they banned it. I wish they didn't. I liked it last year. I'm going to try some different things out see what I like. I don't really like this one. Makes my head hurt. (Laughter.)   
PATRICK PATTERSON: I might rock a skully. Who knows? Like I feel like if you rock it once and they allow you, next day you may get an email or notification saying you can't do it. So something will happen, a skully, do rag.   
MAURICE HARKLESS: Definitely might try a do rag.   
PATRICK PATTERSON: Do rag.   
 Q.  You guys have bounced around several destinations. How eager are you for the season to start?  
MAURICE HARKLESS: I mean, I'm excited for the season to start, just like any other season. I don't think where we're playing at matters to me. It's just about being out there and getting going in the season. That's exciting in itself.   
PATRICK PATTERSON: Yeah. We're one of the lucky guys who are able to do something that they love to do on a daily basis. Soon as tomorrow hits, we are all just focused and ready to get out there and just get to work.   
 Q.  Recent interviews you both talked about revitalizing your career. Do you feel like the Clippers, playing with the Clippers you'll have the opportunity to do that?  
MAURICE HARKLESS: I think it's a good opportunity for all of us, not only us two, all of us to go out there and make some special things happen with this group. With that comes individual recognition and whatever else.   
But I think the focus should just be our team and winning as many games as possible and making a deep playoff run.   
PATRICK PATTERSON: Same thing. Well said.   
MAURICE HARKLESS: Thank you.   
 Q.  Patrick, I know you're a big movie guy. Wondering if you'll take advantage of the proximity to the business of Hollywood to advance that part your life at all?  
PATRICK PATTERSON: Try to have a balance of both. Obviously the No. 1 focus is basketball. No. 1 focus is to win a championship. So that's my main thing.   
But try to find some time to have opportunities to have conversations with people in this world who can help me.   
 Q.  Is there a sneaker competition going on in the locker room?  
MAURICE HARKLESS: I think Trez thinks he's got it pretty much down. I'm just going to let him have it. Whatever. I'm not too into being crazy on the court. Today was a day that we're just walking around, so I figured I would pull something out of my closet.   
PATRICK PATTERSON: Yeah, I rock the same pair of shoes all season long. You'll see these 82 games.   
 Q.  Literally the same ones?  
PATRICK PATTERSON: Same exact shoe. If it holds up, 82 games.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT