NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
Patrick Patterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  No. 14, Houston Rockets

 Q. Thoughts? 
 PATRICK PATTERSON: Right now extremely nervous, shaking on the inside, you know, it's a blessing. It feels great to finally be drafted, a dream come true and now I get to begin a new chapter in my life. 

 Q. Patrick, congratulations to you, four first round picks so far from UK; talk about how that feels to have such a talented team and all of you guys are very close and fulfilling your dreams. The second question, your decision to go back to UK and play, how that helped you? 
 PATRICK PATTERSON: As far as all of us being in the Draft, and four of us being drafted so far, you know, it's just a great accomplishment for all of us, individually, and especially for the University of Kentucky Coach Calipari and the coaching staff. Hopefully we can get five. It's been four previously on different teams and hopefully we can set history for Kentucky and make a new milestone and make a five. 
 Returning last year and playing with Calipari and the rest of my teammates, my decision to do that definitely was fulfilling, improving my game, playing on the perimeter, improving my jumpshot, being more efficient, and working on my shooting mechanics definitely played off throughout the season and just played alongside the great freshman. Playing like veterans every single night and they made my year, they made it a lot more fun and made it more interesting and they just made it a complete ball. 

 Q. Everyone has been complimenting your character and makeup; what do you attribute that to?
 PATRICK PATTERSON: My parents, we had strict rules in the household for punishment and acting wrong. If I wanted to make it to the next level, I had to work hard and enjoy life to the fullest. I definitely thank my family for the way I am now, my character and myself. 

 Q. Xavier spoke earlier about how at Kansas it humbled him playing less of a major role. Do you think taking a lesser role, that that can help you in the NBA where you are not a key player on the team?
 PATRICK PATTERSON: Definitely in high school, I played with O.J. my senior year and that prepared me for the rest of the freshman and by having not to put the entire load on my back and score every single night and realize there's guys better than me and I could take a back seat and unleash them or watch them play; that's going to prepare me for the NBA and work hard and prove myself on the court.
 I think definitely playing with John and DeMarcus is going to help me from the standpoint of I've got to work hard to play and prove myself, and also, if I can't play, I'll be fine with it, but everything I went through in my past is going to help me in the future. 

 Q. What's your major at Kentucky? 
 PATRICK PATTERSON: Communication and Leadership Development. 

 Q. I assume you're going to finish up? 
 PATRICK PATTERSON: Oh, I got the degree. 

 Q. Even though you were one of the last people, you're playing in a state with no income tax. 
 PATRICK PATTERSON: That's the first thing that clicked. You know, I feel great. I'm fine. It really didn't matter when my name was called as long as it got called. My goal was to get a hat, and I came here and accomplished it. I came here and I got a hat and I'm extremely excited and happy about what the future holds. 

 Q. Really impressed with your character; what do you want to do in the league, knowing that you have everything else that a kid needs to have to go into a situation like this? What do you want to do as a basketball player? 
 PATRICK PATTERSON: As a basketball player on the court, just become one of the best and elite players in the game, improve my game and be a well-representative of the organization on the court and off the court and just prove I can shoot and make All-Star teams and make it to the playoffs and championships and help the organization out in any way possible to become a better team and be more respected in the organization, and in the NBA. 

 Q. You're going to Houston, city of championships, this is a club that doesn't accept mediocrity. What are you bringing? 
 PATRICK PATTERSON: Maturity and character off the court, somebody you don't have to worry about and can represent the organization well. And someone who can run up-and-down the court in transition, play offense, defense, score around the rim, hit jumpshots and perimeter shots and somebody who will work extremely hard to be the best player he can be to help the organization.

 Q. You have Yao Ming coming back; ever played with anybody close to that big?
 PATRICK PATTERSON: Never. Tallest person was DeMarcus, I ever played beside.
 When I went there to work out, I worked out and there he was walking behind me and I look straight up and still looking up and he's a tall and big guy. I definitely look forward to playing alongside him and meeting him and developing that relationship. 

 Q. How often have you watched the Rockets practice today and what are your impressions of the team itself and the organization? 
 PATRICK PATTERSON: Extremely talented and they have great leadership and they definitely have a great team and city that supports them. I feel like they have Yao, one of the best post players down low, Ariza who can score on the wing, and great point guard in Chuck Hayes who can stop anybody in the post. They are a great-caliber team with potential to win a championship. 

 Q. How do you feel about Ariza and Jordan Hill?
 PATRICK PATTERSON: Somebody who is extremely tough down low and who will work hard on the post and put the ball on the perimeter and shoot the jumpshot and knock it down and extend all the way out to the three and run, and someone who plays tough and puts his heart into the game, so I think I can definitely come in and learn a lot from them and get a lot of experience and just develop my game around them. 

 Q. Patrick, you were the elder statesman of this special Kentucky group, you were there through good times and bad times; do you have one last parting message for Big Bull Nation?
 PATRICK PATTERSON: I'll always be a Big Blue Nation. Big Blue Nation will always be with me and in my heart and wherever I go I will keep it with me, and all I have to say is thank you to them and keep it with me and supporting my family through the years and I definitely will represent the nation with great pride.

 Q. Rick Adelman always gets most out of his players; is that a perfect fit to work with him? 
 PATRICK PATTERSON: Oh, Coach Cal definitely got the most out of me and I look for Coach getting the best out of me again. I truly believe I can get the best out of me and help improve my confidence and jumpshot and running up and down the court and overall game and so many new areas that I haven't even opened up yet. 

 Q. How much did it help coming from Kentucky when you have other Draft picks and does it look better? 
 PATRICK PATTERSON: I don't know if it looks better but it shows I can do well around high-caliber teammates and that I can adjust and that I can adapt, and I can definitely lead, as well. I had a bunch of freshman who played like veterans every single night and I had to play alongside them and also had to take a step back and watch them play. I think by playing with them, and alongside them and every single step of the way, it put me in the advantage of other people because I can adapt well and also I can do new things and I can step up and be a leader. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT