BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2012
Jung Ji-Ho
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CALVIN KOH:   2‑under after the morning round, leading Korean after the morning round, 2‑under, you must be very happy.   Just share with us your thoughts on the opening round. 
JI‑HO JUNG:   So there was very strong winds.   My iron shots went very well.   The greens were playing fast, but I did not commit any bogeys.   There were no big misses.   I had one bogey and three birdies, and one bogey came from a 3‑putt. 
So overall, I thought the game went very well. 

Q.   So on a windy day like today, what do you focus on? 
JI‑HO JUNG:   I don't think you should try to fight the wind.   If you try to fight the wind, you put in too much strength.   You use too much of your strength, so you can make a lot of misses.   So what you have to do is try to ride the wind and go with the flow and go with the direction that the ball is going. 

Q.   A lot of golfers use the expression, ride the wind, so there was some reference, if you could summarize?
JI‑HO JUNG:   For myself, when there is a tailwind, I try to go far away.   I try to look to my right and ride the wind and land the ball at the point where I want the ball to land. 
So in terms of my characteristic and play style, I think when it's raining, I like it a little bit weak in the knees.   But when there is a lot of wind, I don't lose my confidence because I train in Hawai'i where they have very strong winds.   So even with the winds, I don't focus too much on the winds. 

Q.   So this is your first tournament of the year, and I know during the winter season, you trained very hard and you did very good on your first round, so I'm sure that maybe you might have some thoughts about winning, as well?
JI‑HO JUNG:   For three years, I've trained in Hawai'i and I started going to Hawai'i when my performance started going down.   But during my training in Hawai'i, I can see that my game is picking up and now I know how to practice.   It's more of quality than quantity.   So it's not just spending so much time in practice but trying to get efficiency. 
Young Nam, my, coach has been helping me.   Although this is the first tournament for this season, I hope to do well during the last three rounds, and not just this tournament, but I will work hard to get some good results this season. 
CALVIN KOH:   Thank you, good luck. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT