THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
July 23, 2009
Des Smyth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DES SMYTH: I had a very good day as you can see. I played very solid. Got a very good birdie up off the first and pull-drived it, and hit a really fantastic shot from short left. Hit it to about three feet and made the putt. That was a great start.   
 And I played nicely. I made a birdie somewhere else, the fifth. I hit a 2-iron off the tee. 2-iron and 7-iron to about 15 feet and made it.  
 A simple bogey at the next, I was going in with a 6-iron for my second shot, punched it right of the green and didn't get up-and-down.   
 Hit a 2-iron down 10. There's a lot of tee shots out there where you've got to decide, am I going to hit a 2-iron or a driver. There's no in-between. You either lay up short of the bunkers, or you've got to get past them. So 3-wood is an awkward shot. So I hit a 2-iron, got the downslope, went with a 7-wood, which is my 3-iron and I holed a big, long, 40-footer. So that was nice. That was 10.   
 I didn't birdie 9; had a chance. I didn't birdie 11; had a chance. 12, I hit a good second shot with an 8-iron from five feet and made it. I hit it on the green at 14, 2-putted. So now I'm 4-under.   
 Went with a 2-iron off 17 and pushed it a little bit. It wasn't the line I wanted it. I was in a bunker, hit a really good shot out and made a bogey. Then I hit driver and 6-iron, it was amazing, I had 182 to the flag at the last. I couldn't believe it, because I've played that hole in the past, you can bomb a driver and you hit 9-iron.   
  
  Q. How long was the putt?  
 DES SMYTH: About 15 feet. So I had a lovely day, what can I? Say. 4-under is a great round of golf. I'll take it any time.   
 I'm not overconfident, I must be honest. I've had a long struggle with my swing and with my ball-striking. So I'm here, I've worked hard and I want to try as hard as I can. So I'm fighting it as I always do.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT