SENIOR BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 24, 2005
Des Smyth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Des, good effort but disappointing in the end?
DES SMYTH:  Oh, yeah, I shot 68, 67 over the weekend.  That was my plan.  I played very well today.  I had two, 3 putts, and against that type of opposition you can't afford things like that.

But even so I still had my chances down in the playoff.  And I hit a poor shot at 17.  Maybe my concentration dipped a little.  Just seemed to get ahead of it and put it in a tough position in the bunker.  But anyway, Tom won and he's a great champion.  So that's nothing new.
Q.  But it's great to go head to head with someone like Tom.  The competitive juices flow, don't they?
DES SMYTH:  Yes, they do.  And we were going at it.  And I enjoyed it, because I played well all day.  I was in control of my game    one or two putts.  But you could say the same for Tom.  He missed one at    he slipped a putt at 15 when it looked like he had a birdie in the bag.  But I felt I had my chance.  I probably should have nailed it at 13.  I hit it    I underclubbed a little.  Because that green was very hard and I ended up 3 putting.  Had I gone ahead there I maybe I might have stayed ahead.
Q.  You seemed to both be enjoying it down the back stretch.
DES SMYTH:  It was enjoyable.  Always when you play well.  That's the whole key about this game to find your game and play well.  And if someone is a little better than you at the end of the week, that's fine.  But my game is in good shape and I feel like I could compete.  I think everyone enjoyed it.  The crowds were wonderful, the golf course was great.  The players, we had a very touch opening two days, but I think the players enjoyed the experience.
Q.  And it's off to America for another Major?
DES SMYTH:  Yes, I have two more weeks in America to play and then I have a two week break.
Q.  But you feel you're going in good spirits?
DES SMYTH:  In good spirits, but it won't be a links course next week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT