BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2018
Chella Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So really good bogey-free round for you today.  Looked like you were playing well.  
CHELLA CHOI: First was even par because Inbee is play so well, so I just follow her.   
 Q.  Was her momentum helping you with your good round?  
CHELLA CHOI: Of course.  I really enjoy watching her play, you know.  Make like first couple holes really good, so I trying to follow her score.   
Yeah, it's good.  Good follow her, yeah.   
 Q.  I think it's still a great round for you though.  How do you feel coming off the course about your round?  
CHELLA CHOI: The condition is really good and I love this golf course.  Last couple years a little bit close and close.   
Right now it's very good position.  I know her game, I saw her game, so I follow her tomorrow.   
 Q.  What's it like playing with someone like Inbee who's one of the best players in the world and seeing her put together a round like that?  
CHELLA CHOI: I ask to Inbee, How your putting is really good and how is your mental?  She say, I'm little nervous, too, but looks not.  So I asked a lot of thing, but she's always nice.   
 Q.  You kind of touched on it already, but just like having this motivation as you were both tied for 13th and going up today, how do you keep pushing yourself?  
CHELLA CHOI: I think behind is better for me.  I just keep follow Inbee score and leading score.  I have one more day, 18 holes, so keep trying to make every hole birdie.   
 Q.  What is it about being behind that you like?  
CHELLA CHOI: I don't care, you know.  I played already today, so I just trying to not think.   
Yeah.   
 Q.  Any particular birdies that were standout moments to you?  Any particular holes you thought you played very well?  
CHELLA CHOI: No. 12.  I made three birdie starting, yeah, three days.  No. 12 is very tough hole, but like made a birdie every day so I'm really happy.   
Make one more birdie tomorrow.   
 Q.  Yes, four for four.  
CHELLA CHOI: Yes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT