MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2015
Chella Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   I would like to welcome Chella Choi to the media center as the 2015 Marathon Classic champion here.   Tell me how it feels.   Eight years you've been waiting for this.
CHELLA CHOI:   It's amazing.   Like first win is really long time, seven years, so so exciting and really, really happy.
It's dream come true.   It's exciting.
THE MODERATOR:   How great was it to win with your dad there?   You said he might have to wait two weeks to retire now.
CHELLA CHOI:   I don't know.   We talk later after this.   (Laughter.)
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   How tough was it to imagine the way it finished after the second shot on 18?
CHELLA CHOI:   I miss my tee shot, but, yeah, I don't have confidence win.   Like I don't have experience for win, so it's really a little bit nervous. 
So I try to focus, and my father say, It's okay.   You like draw hole.   You don't have chance, but try be patient and try make a par.
So I try to be patient and focus on just try made a par.   So I made a par, so excited. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
CHELLA CHOI:   I don't know.   Like I use my lucky orange ball and I love my orange shirt.   I love here, Toledo and Sylvania.
I love this golf course, so try focus on every shot.   I'm so exciting.   First time Sunday media center, so anyway. 

Q.   Is it everything you thought it would be, winning for the first time out here?
CHELLA CHOI:   Yes.   Before Saturday I have some time, but Sunday it's first time.   So can't believe. 

Q.   As the story goes, your father has wanted to retire since the first round of the first tournament he ever caddied, and you wouldn't let him because you wanted him to be here when this day came.   Talk a little bit about the eight years with him and what this means to you or him. 
CHELLA CHOI:   I work with my father eight years, one year Symetra Tour and seven year LPGA Tour, but my father want to retire like before seven years. 
I want work with my father first win, so I try, Okay, try one more tournament and one more tournament.
So one year, first year, my father say, No, I want to just retire after this.   Because nobody (indiscernible), right? 
So after 2012 maybe, after second round, I leading so I went media center.   So I say, I want to work with my father for first win, so my father until now work with me now. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
CHELLA CHOI:   I have experience before two years ago, but I work with my father, so my father try talking a lot.   Try be patient and try chance and make a putt.
So not much nervous. 

Q.   I know you obviously wanted to win, but how bad do you feel for Ha Na? 
CHELLA CHOI:   I play with Ha Na Thursday and Saturday, Thursday, Friday, but I play 2‑over Thursday.   She play maybe 5‑under, so she play really good.   Her putting and short game is really good, so...
But I win. 

Q.   Do you feel bad for her, though?
CHELLA CHOI:   No, she's good friend with me.   Like we friendly really long time ago.   She say congratulations, so I'm really happy. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
CHELLA CHOI:   Yes. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
CHELLA CHOI:   Yeah, second year maybe. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
CHELLA CHOI:   A little bit different type in here.   Like in here I draw players, so draw is easy.
But next week is a little bit like fade or straight, I try fade and straight ball.
But I win this week so I have confidence, so exciting for next tournament. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
CHELLA CHOI:   Yeah, I play good last three days 17 and 18, so like I have a confidence.   So exciting No. 17 and 18, because nobody can second on green.
So I have a chance, and so...

Q.   (No microphone.)
CHELLA CHOI:   You know, I can't believe.   First, can't believe.   I can't believe I sitting here and everything. 

Q.   How fortunate do you feel to still win after a bad first round? 
CHELLA CHOI:   Feels a lot of different.   Like 2‑over over and 5‑under, 6‑under, right? 
So I made a lot of putts and my shot was good and my putting was good.   Yeah, I made a lot of birdie, so...

Q.   The putter was the difference the last three days?
CHELLA CHOI:   Yes, I made just one birdie Thursday. 

Q.   Are you going to let him retire now?
CHELLA CHOI:   I don't know.   I'm not sure.   Like my father wants retire because we promise, but I don't know.   We talk later after this tournament. 

Q.   What kind of work does your dad do?
CHELLA CHOI:   My father work policeman before caddie like 21 year. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks so much, Chella. 
CHELLA CHOI:   Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT