WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 7, 2013
Chella Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome our current leader Chella Choi into the interview room.   You're in at 5‑under par, you hit every fairway today, all 14.   Was that the most important thing about shooting 5‑under par?   
CHELLA CHOI:   Yes.   I hit a really good driver today.   I hit 14 fairways.   So I'm really happy.   My goal is just keep fairway, so I really happy.  
THE MODERATOR:   Were you ever in the rough at all near the greens?   
CHELLA CHOI:   Yeah.   Let me think.   Yeah.   I think I missed three ‑‑ I missed the green.   But two is left short, the fairway.   And one time ‑‑ yeah.   Three times left short.   I shot it really good today.  
THE MODERATOR:   You had five birdies on the front nine.   You birdied six of your first ten holes.   Did you feel like you had a really low round when you came to the course today?   
CHELLA CHOI:   I just tried to hit fairway and I tried to hit the greens, so I had a lot of birdie chances today.   I don't know why, but my shot is really good today.   So yeah.  
THE MODERATOR:   What happened at the 13th hole where you had a bogey?   
CHELLA CHOI:   I had 165 yards to the pin.   But I hit a really good chance with my hybrid, but hit like five yards behind the hole.   
I hit it really good, though.   
THE MODERATOR:   You had a tie for fourth at the Mobile Bay LPGA Classic, and you lead the tournament entering the final round.   Talk about that experience.   What was that like?   
CHELLA CHOI:   That was a really good experience for me.   And before final round I really great.   So I wanted my first win in Mobile Bay, but I can't because Jane Park played really good last round.   
But I had a really good experience playing full day under par.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Chella.   
   
 Q.   Yes.   What hole were you on when the rain started up?  
THE MODERATOR:   When it started raining, what hole?   
CHELLA CHOI:   I think No. 5 a little bit.   And front nine it rain or a little bit dark, but back nine is every hole is rain.   
   
 Q.   Chella, what was the difference between the front nine and the back nine?   Obviously on the front nine you had a whole lot of birdies.   The back nine, was it a little more of a fight or what was the difference?  
CHELLA CHOI:   I think greens is a little bit softer than front nine.   But I had a little bit four times for birdie chance, but I can't make the putts if it's dark or a little bit more gray.   
But I really good made par on last hole.   
   
 Q.   Could you tell us the story about your dad caddied for you and how he was?  
CHELLA CHOI:   Yeah.   My father want to retire every before tournament.   But I want my first win to be with my father.   
   
 Q.   How long has that been going on?  
CHELLA CHOI:   Sixth year this year.   Yeah.   My father always before tournament, every time before tournament, "I don't wanna caddy for you; I want to retire," but no, you just caddy for one more tournament.   Okay.   For six years.   
   
 Q.   What was your father's job before he became your caddy?   And yesterday when you went to bed at night, did you think it was possible with an afternoon tee time that you would get 18 holes in today?  
CHELLA CHOI:   Actually, I had a little bit tired from last week.   We have a lot of wind and a little bit of rain came last week.   So I had a little bit tired, but I had really good rest yesterday.   All day rest.   
So my energy is better than before.   So my shot is good.   
   
 Q.   I was just going to ask how the extra day of rest affected you going into today.   Was it helpful to you to have one extra day off?  
CHELLA CHOI:   Yeah.   Really good for me.   I just watched a movie and nothing golf.   Really good rest yesterday.   
   
 Q.   Chella, what did you learn after leading, heading into the final round in Mobile?   What did you learn from that experience?  
CHELLA CHOI:   I really upset after Mobile Bay because I had a try at my first win.   So my father and my family, like, okay, you're fine; you have a lot of chances this year.   So yeah, like pretty good a lot of things.   So yeah.   
THE MODERATOR:   Last year you had a career‑best finish not far from here at the Manulife tournament where you lost in a four‑way playoff.   You tied for second.   Is that an experience that you think about when you're in contention in a tournament?   
CHELLA CHOI:   Yeah.   That's what I play final round 8‑under last year Manulife tournament.   So very good experience for me, like I can more lower scores.   So yeah.   
THE MODERATOR:   Last question, have you done anything fun in Rochester since you've been here?   
CHELLA CHOI:   Yeah.   Worked.   
THE MODERATOR:   What's that?   
CHELLA CHOI:   Yeah.   Work.   I really enjoy here.   Play golf.   
THE MODERATOR:   Other than golf.   Did you eat anywhere fun?   
CHELLA CHOI:   Oh.   Yeah, a Korea restaurant in here, two restaurants in here, so really good here.   And I play with (inaudible) yesterday, she played with me.   So I asked her why is it too hard, like greens so small, like just 20 yards.   He say he like air‑conditioning.   So I don't have answer, like yeah, okay, I keep the fairway and hit the green.  
THE MODERATOR:   That was with the president of (inaudible)?   
CHELLA CHOI:   Yeah.   
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   
CHELLA CHOI:   My favorite color is orange, so my game is better than before, then it is my fault.   Yeah, I like it.   
THE MODERATOR:   Chella, thank you so much for coming in and good luck this week.   
CHELLA CHOI:   Thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT