CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2012
Chella Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHELLA CHOI:   I missed the second shot, just one, number 15.   The shot is normally good.   But my putting, every putt is short, so I tried my speed, but short, short, short, so hopefully tomorrow my speed is better than today.

Q.   You came out today.   It's your 22nd birthday.   Did you feel any different?   Did you feel older? 
CHELLA CHOI:   Yeah, I'm very tired (laughing).   Just one day, right?   I'm happy it's my birthday.   I'm very happy today.   I like today, and my first day is good, my conditions are perfect.   But just putting.   I think yesterday I made a lot of birdies, so hopefully tomorrow is better.

Q.   Is it hard to come back?   You shot 64 yesterday, to come back the next day and play well again. 
CHELLA CHOI:   Hopefully.   My condition is really good and my driving and my second shot is perfect.   So just I don't make the putt, so just putting, so hopefully better tomorrow.

Q.   So tomorrow, just one shot back?
CHELLA CHOI:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   Just tell me how you feel about trying to get a win. 
CHELLA CHOI:   I think my shot is perfect, so I try to make the birdie putt, and the speed is better than today.   Today is really good but every putt is short.   Just two or three or more.   So hopefully ‑‑   I think it's better than being the leader.   I think to follow is better, so I'll play better.

Q.   Tomorrow looks like it could be obviously a really interesting day with such a lot at the top of the leaderboard.   You tied it one shot behind the leader, and a tough four or five holes coming back in makes for an exciting day, doesn't it? 
CHELLA CHOI:   Actually, I like not to be the leader.   Just following is better than being the leader.

Q.   What do you think about the last four holes coming in?   Are they hard? 
CHELLA CHOI:   My first is really good, so I tried birdies.   Second shot was number 15, so I tried pin position was the right side.   It's four yards.   I tried just a little bit left to right and aimed one yard left, but I hooked it. 
Just trying to make par is easy, but I want to make birdies.   So I missed the shot left, so I made bogey.   So I'll try my best tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT