THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
October 22, 2020
Chella Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Chella, what a way to finish your first round.  How do you feel now that you got round one in?
 CHELLA CHOI:   This golf course really like long, but I didn't work with my dad last couple like 18 months.  But my father help me starting this week, so he give my a lot of confidence.  So he gave me a good yardage and putting is good so trying to make calm for me.
 I played good today.
 Q. And speaking of your father who hasn't caddied for you in a while, when did he come back to the states and how long has that process been?
 CHELLA CHOI:   Last Thursday.  I called Tuesday, So can you come?  Please help me like for swing and putting.  So he gave me a lot of the confidence.
 Q. And you had a week off.  What did you do during the week off?
 CHELLA CHOI:   Work really hard, because last couple week I don't like my golf game, so he help me couple day and my game much better and confidence better.
 Q. Did you eat a lot of good food and relax?
 CHELLA CHOI:   Last week, yes, because like off week staying home so I cook for myself in Korean food, so I really like it.  Yeah.
 Q. From a links standpoint and the firmness of the greens, this has a major championship feel to it.  Of course except not having crowds.  But looks like it could be a major championship venue.  Is that a mindset you're entering?
 CHELLA CHOI:   Yeah, it's feel like major tournament, because when I hit a driver a lot of time hit fairway wood and hybrid.  So I trying to, yeah, even I really like want to go to the pin, but I trying to think like I don't mean to go -- miss area.
 So left or right, like if right side better I trying to go right side or pin.  Yeah.
 Q. And so could this is the second DriveOn championship that has been a very good golf course.  You have to be pleased.
 CHELLA CHOI:   You know, beautiful weather and golf course shape and condition is really, really good.  I feel like it's major tournament, and my father is here and I play here, I really trying to make enjoy it.
 Q. So you got off to a fast start today with three birdies in your first four holes.  What do you attribute that to?
 CHELLA CHOI:   Before tee off I think like back nine is a little hard, but I starting birdie No. 10 so I very exciting.  Oh, I can make a birdie, I did make a birdie, so I try to make more calm down and I can do more trying to hit the pin.  Yeah.
 Q. What do you like most about this course when you first got here?  It's a brand new venue to a lot of people out here this week.
 CHELLA CHOI:   It's brand new tournament so everybody like very same condition, right?  So I trying to keep fairway and keep greens but it's really tough to hit the greens.  So I trying to make -- don't want to go to bad area, so it was good.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT