THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 6, 2019
Harriet Dart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/H. Dart   
6-1, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What are your feelings after that game?  Fantastic to have reached where you are.  That must be the overwhelming feeling.  
HARRIET DART: Yeah, I'm super happy with my performances this week.  I think today is such a good learning curve for me.  She played great.  She didn't let me in the match at all.   
I think it's obviously a tough lesson to learn.  Again, it's been a great tournament for me.  I should take a lot of positives from it.   
 Q.  How different did you find this to playing Sharapova in terms of the experience?  What did you learn from that occasion to take into this one?  
HARRIET DART: I think today I handled my emotions a lot better.  The courts are different.  Different surface, different type of crowd, different amount of people.  In Australia, on Rod Laver, it was a lot bigger stadium than here on Centre Court.   
I think today it was really nice to have the British fans out there, which I think helped me a lot.  But, yeah, I think she played great today.  I think she didn't allow me to get into the match really at all.   
 Q.  What was it like walking out to play singles on Centre Court?  
HARRIET DART: Pretty cool.  Not many people can say you played the third round of Wimbledon against the world No. 1 on Centre Court.  Pretty special to be out there.   
Yeah, I definitely enjoyed every minute.   
 Q.  What is your next ambition?  
HARRIET DART: In terms of what?   
 Q.  In terms of your career.  Where do you see this as a steppingstone?  
HARRIET DART: I think it's a great steppingstone for me.  I've never been this far in a Grand Slam.  I think what I've done this week has been incredible for me.  It should give me a lot of confidence to build on this.   
Again, this is all so new to me.  So, yeah, I'm just trying to take everything in my stride and build on it for the next tournaments.   
 Q.  A lot of talk about Ashleigh Barty's backhand slice.  What is it like to come up against it?  
HARRIET DART: It's very tough.  She has a lot of variety in her game.  She plays exceptionally well.  Yeah, she's on an unbelievable roll at the moment.  I can see her going very far in this tournament.   
 Q.  What is going to be your standout moment during this run to the third round?  
HARRIET DART: I think each match has been a steppingstone.  Today, even though I lost, there's so many positives to take from this week.  Yeah, next time I think from gaining all these new experiences, it's going to better prepare me for next time I play on these big stages.   
 Q.  Will you take some downtime now?  What do you do to relax?  
HARRIET DART: Yeah, I will be taking a couple days off, which will be really nice.  I feel like this grass season is very long in a lot of ways, but also very short.  So, yeah, I'll be spending some time with family and friends.  With the tour life, you don't get so much time to do that.  I'm looking forward to doing that.   
 Q.  In this tournament we've seen your serve has improved.  What is your long-term plan to try to get that even better?  
HARRIET DART: I think not only to do with my serve.  I think I still have so much improvements to make.  I think it's just consistently being able to do that day after day.  This week I've definitely shown some glimpses of being able to back up serving well.   
Today I don't think I served so well.  I think it was difficult because she put a lot of pressure on me today.  Yeah, I think going forward, I've just got to improve everything really.   
 Q.  The Red Arrows at the start, did that distract a little bit?  
HARRIET DART: No.  It was just pretty loud with the crowd.  Understandably.   
 Q.  Did you know that was coming?  
HARRIET DART: No, no.  I think I was so focused on the match, everything else seemed to be a bit irrelevant.   
 Q.  What are you most proud of about the run?  
HARRIET DART: Obviously making the third round is an incredible achievement.  Hopefully I can build on this and keep improving.  Yeah, I think it's been a great run for me.  I think it's important for me to just really take everything in and look back at this week as a very positive one.   
 Q.  What is your next tournament?  
HARRIET DART: I'm playing World TeamTennis, which starts next Sunday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT