THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 4, 2019
Harriet Dart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








H. DART/B. Haddad Maia
7-6, 3-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Talk us through your emotions in the second set, obviously winning in the third.
HARRIET DART: Yeah, I'm just so happy to win and so relieved all at the same time.  Yeah, I'm just stoked to be in the third round.
Q. Can you quite believe it?
HARRIET DART: Well, I'm in the third round, so I better believe it.
Q. With your foot, how serious is that?  Is that going to affect you going forward?  You've had problems with it before.
HARRIET DART: My current state is actually nothing to do with what previous injury I had.  It was due to the fall I had in my first-round match.
Yeah, we're just managing it really well.  So that's about it.
Q. Is it ankle or foot?
HARRIET DART: Ankle.
Q. You experienced highs and lows in the Grand Slams this year.  Sharapova match was obviously quite difficult to handle, I'd imagine.  How does it feel to bounce back from that to where you are now?
HARRIET DART: Yeah, I mean, I think I'm just learning from all these experiences that I'm having this year.  Everything is still pretty new for me.  Again, this is my second Wimbledon.  I'm still finding my feet.  I'm definitely proving that my tennis is definitely right up there with the level.
I'm just doing the best that I can.  I'm just really excited to play my next match.
Q. You were hoping to play in the mixed doubles.  Sadly that's no longer going to happen.  Can you explain what happened, when you found out that you lost your partner?
HARRIET DART: I spoke about it yesterday.  I'd really just like to talk about my match today.  I think that's in the past.  Yeah, I think just got to look forward.  I'm just concentrating on my singles.
Q. Obviously you have Ashleigh Barty next.  Your thoughts on playing a new world No. 1.
HARRIET DART: Super exciting.  A great opportunity for me.  I have nothing to lose.  I actually met her a few weeks ago at an LTA schools visit.  Lovely girl, great champion.  She won the French Open, and she won Birmingham, right?
Yeah, so, it's an exciting match for me.  Just another great opportunity to get out there and do the best that I can.
Q. Why do you think you've improved so much since January, since the defeat against Maria?
HARRIET DART: I don't necessarily think it's an improvement since then.  I think it's overall consistently, you know, day in, day out working on things, trying to just keep improving, take each day as it comes.
I think especially this week I've handled a lot of situations pretty well.  I'm just really happy about that.
Q. Been a lot of talk about how difficult it is for lower-ranked players on the tour to afford keeping going.  How important is it to pick up a check for  £111,000?  Where will that go for you?
HARRIET DART: All I think about is winning matches.  If I can keep doing that, great.  Obviously financially it definitely helps with my team, with travel and everything.
But my main concern is just to keep winning matches.
Q. Who are the people you would say helped you most getting to the point you are?
HARRIET DART: Yeah, I mean, my whole team.  I've got a really good bunch of people around me.  I'm just so fortunate to be in the position that I am.  Yeah, just keep striving forward.
Q. You mentioned you didn't want to mention the doubles.  At least the last 24 hours, is it a lesson of how quick things can change dealing with disappointments, turning that into a positive?  In the space of 24 hours, it's been slightly emotional and you've dealt with it really well.  Is that fair to say?
HARRIET DART: Yeah, I mean, things happen.  A lot of things are out of my control.  Again, I just was focusing on playing my singles, the matches that I'm playing.
Q. Even during the match today, you dealt with a few setbacks.  That's a big positive, isn't it, for you?
HARRIET DART: Yeah, massively.  I think mentally I'm improving all the time.  I'm just working really hard with my team to keep working on those things.  Yeah, just keep improving because then I think if you keep improving, everything else takes care of itself.
Q. What does your team look like?  How many people have you got with you beyond your main coach?
HARRIET DART: So I have my main coach, which is Goran Marijan, he is an Aussie (indiscernible).  I've been with him a year and a half.  I'm fortunate enough to be able to use LTA resources.  My fitness trainer is here, physio is here, doctor is here.  Yeah, we have quite a big team.
Q. You had the honor of playing in front of the Duchess of Cambridge the other day.  We learned Prince George, his favorite player is Federer.  He's had a chance to play with Federer.  Would you welcome the chance to play with Prince George or with members of the Royal family?
HARRIET DART: Of course, I think anyone would jump at the chance.  I think I was so fortunate that she came to an outside court and was watching me.  It was such a privilege and honor for me to be able to play in front of her.
Q. Do you think you would beat Prince George?
HARRIET DART: Might be tough (smiling).
Q. You've had quite a week on and off the court.  You seem calm.  Is that how you're really feeling inside?
HARRIET DART: Yeah, I think I'm just taking everything in my stride.  Yeah, I think some things you can't control.  Just got to focus on the task in hand.  That's playing singles.  That's all I'm really worried about.
Q. How important will it be against your opponent, just not to be nervous, not to show any fear?
HARRIET DART: Yeah, I mean, I think every match you go through a set of emotions playing, especially my next match is a big match.  There's no question about it.  I'm playing the best player in the world at the moment and whose form has been unbelievable.  Again, just a great opportunity for me to see where my tennis is at.
Yeah, just do the best that I can.
Q. How much of her have you been watching in the last few weeks?
HARRIET DART: I mean, I watch a lot of tennis.  I've seen a lot of her matches.  Yeah, she's just been playing great.  I'm sure I'll be sitting down with my team to discuss some form of strategy.
Q. There were times today when frustrations were getting to you.  Is that something you're aware of on court?  Are you trying to kind of challenge that, change that?  Do you just embrace that as part of who you are?
HARRIET DART: I think I'm a very fiery type of competitor.  I think that definitely shows.  I'm such a fighter.  I want to win every point.  I think sometimes my emotions might get the better of me as you probably saw from parts of the match today.
I think it's really important that I regrouped and I was able to come out on top.
Q. Have you spoken to Andy?  I thought it was Andyesque at times with the dialogue.
HARRIET DART: No.  But that's probably a good point.  Maybe I will.  So yeah.
Q. It's been a slightly difficult 48 hours with things happening beyond your control.  Have you had support from the wider British tennis people or just from your own team?
HARRIET DART: About?
Q. Just about the mixed doubles stuff, playing your matches, everything like that.
HARRIET DART: I think everyone has just been really supportive of me during my matches.  I've just been fortunate for all of that.
I think we have such a good crop of women and men at the moment that are coming through.  Hopefully we can inspire a lot of people to pick up racquets and just get more people playing tennis.
Q. Having won games at Wimbledon before, how much of a bigger buzz is it when it's just you on the court?  Does it feel that much more intense?
HARRIET DART: It's very different to playing doubles or mixed.  Had a really good run in mixed doubles last year.  It's different.  You share that moment with someone, whereas now during my matches I'm alone on the court.  However, I share the moment with my team, my family and my friends.
It's a similar kind of feel.
Q. Ultimately it's just you hitting the balls out there on your own.  It must feel that much more intense?
HARRIET DART: Ultimately it's up to me and my racquet whether I win or lose.
Q. You've given very standard responses about the money, which is a pretty fair sum that you've earned.  Any one thing you'd treat yourself to, have an outside interest you might give yourself a bit of a reward?
HARRIET DART: I do.  I was having an ice bath.  I think one of the players, support teams of another player, had a Celine bag.  I really liked it.  I really quite want one.
Q. How much is that?
HARRIET DART: I dread to think (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT