THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 2, 2019
Harriet Dart
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
H. DART/C. McHale   
4-6, 6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Were you aware the Duchess of Cambridge was watching your match?  How did you feel about it?  
HARRIET DART: I was aware.  The chair umpire mentioned it before the coin toss.  It's pretty cool to have royalty watching you.  Such a privilege for me for her to get to see me play.   
 Q.  Did it put you under any more pressure or make you nervous?  
HARRIET DART: I think I just got into the match pretty well.  Definitely started to relax in terms of, for me, obviously the second year playing Wimbledon, so it's all quite new to me.   
Yeah, I think I got the win in the end.  I'm just very happy about that.   
 Q.  It's your first win at Wimbledon.  Sum up the feeling of getting through to the second round.  
HARRIET DART: It's hard to kind of put it into words.  Yeah, I think it still hasn't quite sunk in yet.  Yeah, just feeling pretty amazing at the moment.   
 Q.  Also the other thing here is the prize money, that you're guaranteed  £72,000 for reaching the second round.  A significant amount of money.  In what way will that help you for the rest of the season in terms of coaching, where you can travel, events you can play?  
HARRIET DART: Yeah, I mean, obviously financially it helps a lot.  I didn't even know that was the amount.  I don't tend to look at those sort of things.  I just take each match as it comes, just try to focus on that.   
For sure, financially it will help with my team.   
 Q.  You say that's one of the highlights of your career having the Duchess watching.  
HARRIET DART: I mean, it's pretty surreal.  Any of you had the Duchess watch you guys play (smiling)?   
 Q.  After she went, that's when you turned the match around, having lost the first set.  Was it a bit of distraction to you?  Did it inhibit you slightly?  
HARRIET DART: I don't think so.  I don't even know at which point she left.  Obviously I was just aware she was there at the start, as the chair umpire informed me.   
No, I think I dealt with all the conditions well.  It was a bit windy out there today.  Definitely towards the end, naturally I was a bit nervous to try and close it out.  I think I did really well to hold myself together and get through.   
 Q.  In the third set, there were seven consecutive breaks.  How tight was it between you two?  
HARRIET DART: Yeah, for sure, I think a lot of things went into play there, especially with the wind from certain ends.  Also I think both of us returned pretty well.  I think that was quite a key.  I managed to break and then hold my serve at the end, which was great.   
 Q.  You had a very good run in the mixed doubles here last year.  Did that help you at all psychologically with this today?  
HARRIET DART: Yeah, for sure.  I mean, we were so fortunate to play on some really big courts, Centre and Court 1.  I think all these experiences are just helping me develop as a player and a person, just realizing that I belong here, this should be becoming normal for me.   
 Q.  Did you previously know or did you have a previous relationship with Duchess Kate?  Is that why she came to watch?  
HARRIET DART: No.  Hopefully because I'm British, hopefully she'll come to many more of my matches.   
 Q.  You haven't met her before?  
HARRIET DART: No.   
 Q.  I happened to be sitting in the row in front of the photographers.  They did not stop clicking in the first set when Kate was there.  Do you hear that or do you shut everything out?  
HARRIET DART: Yeah, I mean, those things I think are quite irrelevant.  All the time we have photographers at tournaments.  Yeah, I wasn't really aware of that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT