UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 11, 2012
Eric Atkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Jerian talked earlier that you guys watched the A‑10 championship game together.   Did anything stick out to you from what Xavier did against St.Bonaventure or what they did to Xavier in that game to win?   
ERIC ATKINS:   I just really thought how Xavier guards, just really attacked the rim, Tu Holloway and Mark Lyons really get in there and create for their teammates.   That was the main thing I paid attention to from that game.   
   
 Q.   After seeing them in action, is it exciting to go up against them, a little intimidating?   These are two well seasoned guys.   Do they remind you of anybody you've seen before?   
ERIC ATKINS:   I don't think we've played two guards like that this year.   But I'm excited for the test ahead.   I know Jerian and I are going to be ready for it, so yes.   
   
 Q.   To be sitting here today talking about going to the NCAA Tournament as a 7 seed, after what you guys went through at the beginning of the season, got so hot, where in that did you feel that selection Sunday could be a very good day for us during the course of the season?   
ERIC ATKINS:   I was thinking‑‑ after we beat Syracuse, I know it went through my mind of we are going to make the tournament or we're going to have a really good chance to.   
But getting the 7 seed, I think we're excited about it, especially from where we came early on in the season.   We're happy where we're at, and just be ready to play.   
   
 Q.   How do you balance happy to be here with (inaudible)?  
ERIC ATKINS:   I think that it's just a different mindset we need to switch to.   I know the sweet 16, I know it's right there, and we can do it.   I know last year we came up short.   It still hurts to even think about.   But it's just a switch that we need to turn on that we can do it and believe that we can get there.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
ERIC ATKINS:   I would say that last year probably‑‑ that hurt like‑‑ I've never felt as sad as I did after a loss.   I think that was definitely because of the seniors there on that team and not being able to play with them again.   But now this is more of my team, or just having a bigger role.   Knowing that feeling, you kind of know what to expect to bring onto the court.   We'll be ready.   I know I will be.   
   
 Q.   You obviously knew you were going to play a bigger role, but when you look back will you believe that you've gone from a role player to a captain?  
ERIC ATKINS:   Yeah, it is kind of weird to think about, but I would definitely think I was going to be a captain maybe my junior year or have his role that I have maybe my junior year.   But like fast forward a year, I would even say for Jerian and I, just playing time and scoring.   But it does feel‑‑ feels good to be a captain and just get everything out there.   
   
 Q.   How does your leadership style work with Scott Martin?   How does that mesh?   
ERIC ATKINS:   I would say it's a different‑‑ me and his, the way we talk to everyone on the court, it is a little bit different.   He is the one that actually now screams in huddles and everything.   It did kind of surprise us mid‑year hearing him screaming at us and stuff.   
I think we work good together because we always about what we need to do in that situation, get a good shot.   So I would say in that sense we do work together.  
   
 Q.   Before he started taking on that role, were you the guy who was yelling in the huddles, or were you guys just waiting for Mike to say something?   
ERIC ATKINS:   I don't think it was just‑‑ there wasn't any yelling.   I don't think anyone was stepping into that role, or we were really waiting on Coach Brey.   I just think that we would all say something.   It was kind of all like a team, hey, what do you think we should do here.   It kind of went like that.  
   
 Q.   What allows you not to get tired?   
ERIC ATKINS:   I'm not sure.   I'm still pretty young.   Getting massages here and there keeps me healthy, keeps me moving.   But that's about it.   
   
 Q.   Playing 40 minutes at the Garden, you kind of knew it was coming.   Is there anything you do to keep you fresh?   
ERIC ATKINS:   Not really.   No, I don't do any routines or anything to keep myself fresh.   I really just go out there and try to play well every game, try to play like I have something to prove.   That's the main thing.   
   
 Q.   At what point in the scouting report do you start thinking, all right, there are two guards Jerian and I are going against and this is what we need to do better?   
ERIC ATKINS:   You said at what point?   
   
 Q.   Yeah, was it right away when they said Xavier?  
ERIC ATKINS:   Oh, right away, right when I saw who we were playing.   The two guards are who popped into my head.   Jerian and I, we are going to have to play better than we have in the past few games.   I would say the past few games we kind of went into a little slump shooting the ball and just not playing up to our potential.   We're going to have to pick it up.   But we definitely can do that.   
   
 Q.   How do you think the offense can get better as a whole?   
ERIC ATKINS:   I would say I definitely have to create more for just everyone on the court, if that's coming up, ball screens, or if someone has a one‑on‑one situation to take that situation and attack aggressively.   I think we've all just been passing the ball around lately, kind of just waiting on someone to make a move.   But we're going to have to be aggressive and play confidently.   
   
 Q.   Do you think teams have adjusted to Jack on the block, what to do with them?   Are they still trying to figure out what's the right approach to take with him?   
ERIC ATKINS:   Yeah, definitely, because a lot of teams are playing him a lot differently.   They're switching it up every single game it seems like.   But Jack, we do have to assert Jack early.   I think that's in every single game we're going to have to do that.   You know, and he's going to have to finish around the rim.   But he has been doing that for us, but I think Jerian and I have to do a good job of getting him some easy buckets, as well.   
   
 Q.   Playing 40 minutes, is there a mental approach you take, or do you think about it?   How do you approach the playing time you get basically every night?  
ERIC ATKINS:   Try not to think about it.   Half the time I really don't notice that I don't come off the court anymore because of how many timeouts there are in the games.   I mean, now I'm kind of used to it, never really notice.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
ERIC ATKINS:   Yes.   I mean, I knew with our talent that we can get to the NCAA Tournament.   I didn't know what seed or anything like that, but I knew with who we were bringing back, Scott, we wouldn't have Abro, and Jack, I knew we could make a run at it.   But now with the new guys, they filled in great.   Jerian and Pat have done a great job stepping up for us.   So I think that's just a surprise right there, how well they've played.   But I knew that we can get this far.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT