NHL DRAFT
June 24, 2011
Jonathan Huberdeau
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What was it like hearing your name called?   
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: It's a great feeling to be called for Florida. It's a great team. It's a dream since you're young, and now to get called it's a foot in the door to make the NHL.  
  
  Q. Big year for you, NHL Cup champion, Memorial Cup champion, and now third overall? Speak on that.   
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: I can't ask for thing more this season. I did everything on the ice I had to do for the President's Cup and Memorial Cup, so that was great, and I'm happy that Florida took me.  
  
  Q. When did you start dreaming this dream?   
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: I've always had that dream to be drafted in the NHL and to go to the rink and always have fun. You need to have fun if you want to play hockey, and that's what I'm doing right now.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible) What would you do to change those things?  
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: For sure. I want to go there and change things. They made the playoffs. But I want to start to make the team first, and I'll play next year if I can. I want to work very hard, especially if I can do something for the team, I'll do it.  
  
  Q. You had a great off-season this year. How do you replicate that and go above that?  
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: Yeah, I think I had a good season. I'm going to work very hard to get stronger this summer and everything to get ready for Florida training camp.  
  
  Q. Did you drink milk at the Memorial Cup, and are you thinking about the champagne for the Stanley?   
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: I drank a little bit, but we didn't have a lot of time because I had to go for the combine. We celebrated a little bit for sure when you win, but maybe not like the Stanley Cup.  
  
  Q. Any of the guys on the team, do you know any of them, Stephen Weiss, David Booth? Do you know any of them?   
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: I know those players. I don't know them very well, but I know who is playing there. Hopefully I can meet them in Florida.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?   
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: Yeah, it's great to be drafted. There's not a lot of players. I think I'm the first one to get drafted from my city, so it's very great to get drafted now.  
  
  Q. What did Dale tell you last night at the meeting regarding what you can do to make this team?   
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: I think he didn't tell me anything. It was like just I think he met like all the guys, so I don't know what he said. It was just to have fun and they can take me, and that's what they did right now.  
  
  Q. Do you think your family will get a better parking spot when they come this Christmas and New Year's?   
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: I don't know. They always come in motorhomes. I don't know. Maybe they're going to stay there. If I play there next year, that will be great.  
  
  Q. Talk about playing for the St. John's Sea Dogs and what that's meant for your development?   
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: I think we've had to have a full season with them. Great team my two years. This year was better because we won everything, and last year we lost. But I mean all the team, we had a couple of guys that are going to get drafted right now. So it's very good to have a lot of players on the draft list.   
 Some guys are not there, so I think about them, and I wish them the best luck to get drafted. It was nice to have a team like that where we're all close to each other, so it's nice.  
  
  Q. That's a new jersey. What do you think about that?   
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: It's great. We have 11 for 2011, but that's my number, and also I think it's great to have that, just something like that to happen. But it's great to wear that for the first time.  
  
  Q. Do you like the red?   
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: Yeah, that's my favorite color. Yeah, I like the color. It doesn't matter the color. I just want to wear it.  
  
  Q. How about the switch from a dog to a cat?   
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: Oh, yeah, I don't like the Wildcats in the Q, but the Panthers I can deal with that. That's my team, so it's great to be there.  
  
  Q. Did you know it was going to be Florida? Were you surprised at all it was Florida?   
 JONATHAN HUBERDEAU: Maybe I knew a little bit. I was like thinking I was third, so maybe I was like there is some chance that I'll get there, but like you're surprised to get there. You don't know what the team wants, but I'm very happy to be a Panther.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT