NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: MAPLE LEAFS v HURRICANES
May 21, 2002
Curtis Joseph
Alyn McCauley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How do you think the loss of Pat Quinn affected the team, and how was Rick Ley tonight?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   Well, Rick Ley is very capable.  He's coached the guys this year in Washington and we got a big win.  Obviously, our thoughts and prayers are with Pat, but tonight was a game that we wish we had won.

Q.  You get Tucker back, Sundin, and Mogilny seems to go down and you don't know when he's going to be back. 

CURTIS JOSEPH:   Let's hope it's nothing serious.  I don't know what the status is, but Alex is a very creative player and a very talented player.  We don't want to lose him.

Q.  Seem to be a lot of similarities to the way the last two games ended, where almost seemed like a matter of time before a goal was scored?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   Maybe a prelude to a goal there, with a little scrambling.  It's unfortunate.  It's unfortunate, what happened.  I think Francis made a pretty good play.

Q.  Do you think there is a loss of energy?  Do you think you've hit a wall with all of the injuries?  

CURTIS JOSEPH:   No theories.  No theories for me.  We played a tight game, but I'm not sure.

Q.  It's difficult to swallow for this team, two overtime goals and this series could be totally different, you could be up 3-0?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   There's why they call it a seven-game series.  It's been really close, all three games.  Unfortunately the last two didn't go our way and we have to be better.  We are close, but we've got to make it count.

Q.  Makes it difficult to handle mentally, though?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   No.  Not with what this team has been through.  My guess is it shouldn't be.

Q.  You guys have had your backs against the wall, but you always seem to come out swinging? 

CURTIS JOSEPH:   Well, we've faced elimination a few times and we've come up with big games.  We are facing a tough task, no doubt, and we've got to come out with a strong effort. 

Q.  I think the puck was on Cole after Kapanen hit the post, how did you manage to get in position? 

CURTIS JOSEPH:   You just hope that you can follow the puck and know where it goes.  It was shot from a point and I think their player got a little deflection on it and may have moved out of desperation and I was lucky it hit my stick.

Q.  There was a deflection on that? 

CURTIS JOSEPH:   I touched it  -- I would have to look at it, I just tried to get over there and get some piece of equipment over there.  Fortunately it hit my stick.

Q.  When did you find out about Pat Quinn?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   When I came to the rink today.  We were told there was going to be a meeting and what it was about.

Q.  What will the team do to prepare for Game 4?

CURTIS JOSEPH:   I can't speak for everybody, but my guess is we're going to come out strong the next game.  Educated guess. 


Q.  How many times have you guys had your backs against the wall and you've come out swinging in the playoffs? 

ALYN McCAULEY:   Yeah, a number of times we were down.  We lost the first game in the Ottawa series 5-0 and came back swinging and played our best game at that point.  It just seems like when this team is faced with some adversity or is figured to be down and out we come out with our best effort, so hopefully that will continue.

Q.  Mentally it must be hard to focus, with two overtime losses back-to-back.  You guys could be up 3-0, but instead you are down 2-1; that must be a little bit frustrating? 

ALYN McCAULEY:   Yeah, but a couple of bounces in the first game and we could be down 3-0.  So I guess we'll take our medicine a little bit.  We've fought hard and just haven't gotten the break when we needed it in overtime in this series, yet, but maybe it's going to help us down the road and make us more a determined team and maybe a more patient team in future games.

Q.  With Pat Quinn not being here tonight, is that just another obstacle that you have to overcome? 

ALYN McCAULEY:   I don't think so.  I don't think it helps that you are without your head coach, but I don't think like we were handicapped or disrupted.  It didn't affect our  penalty killing and our play units and our lines, and I think our guys were ready when we needed to make changes.  It didn't seem to make life difficult for us at all out there.  It's too bad that he's in the hospital and resting, but that's what he needs to do.  Hopefully he can get well.  And don't worry about us, we'll be fine.

Q.  What happened on that goal? 

ALYN McCAULEY:   I know that Ward threw it up to someone, I'm not sure if it was Francis or someone else, and one of our defensemen fell down.  Kaberle was on the left side and moved over to Francis and the puck kind of bounced around his feet.  I got back to pick up Kapanen and tried to stab at the puck because it went to O'Neill and then it ended up in the back of the net. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT