AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 17, 2014
James Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. YOUNG/J. Ward
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   James, what do you think?
JAMES WARD:   Obviously very disappointed I didn't play well, but, you know, to take a positive, it can't get much worse than that.

Q.   Any reason why?
JAMES WARD:   No, I don't know.   Just finished 10 minutes ago.   We'll sit down with my coach and see why and improve and get better.

Q.   You had a long wait to play. 
JAMES WARD:   Yeah, but it was the same for him.   That's no excuse. 
Yeah.   Not ideal for either of us, but again, it's no excuse.

Q.   What happens now?
JAMES WARD:   Go back to London, practice, and get ready for Wimbledon. 

Q.   I presume you'd hoped for a good run here at Eastbourne?
JAMES WARD:   Yeah, of course.   You always do.   You never go into a tournament thinking it's not going to go well.   But it happens and I'll get ready and see what happens at Wimbledon.

Q.   It's quite uncharacteristic for you, particularly on grass. 
JAMES WARD:   Yeah, of course.   Look, I'm disappointed, as frustrated as anybody.   But, yeah, it does happen.
As I say, look, just got to pick myself up and get ready for another big tournament next week.

Q.   He played pretty well, didn't he?
JAMES WARD:   Yeah, he played well.   He didn't miss too many balls.   So, yeah, credit to him. 
But I obviously didn't play up to my usual standard, which is a shame.   But, yeah, it does happen. 
Tennis, it's a long year.   It's just a shame it's happened here at home, but yeah, as I say, it can happen.   But try and obviously improve and get better for next week.

Q.   How are you going to lift your spirits?
JAMES WARD:   Well, look, it's the same losing here to losing anywhere else, you know.   There is only one guy each week that wins the tournament.   There's a lot of guys that have to pick themselves up every week.
Some do better than others.   So everyone will be in the same boat who plays here except one, and then we'll all get ready for Wimbledon.   It's a new tournament, different place. 
As I say, who knows what can happen next week?   I'm sure a couple of wins next week, you won't be thinking too much about this match.

Q.   Will you be giving yourself a day off just to clear your head?
JAMES WARD:   I don't know.   I mean, it's up to my coach.   He's in charge of that.
I'm ready to get back on the practice court and working and just trying to get better.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT