AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 10, 2013
James Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 I. DODIG/J. Ward
  6‑7, 7‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   So close, James.   Very disappointing for you?  
JAMES WARD:   Obviously with the result, but got to take the positives.   So served for the match and didn't really do too much wrong.   
He played well.   Stuck to the tactics I went out there with.   You've got to give credit where credit is due.  
He made me play, and that's the reason why he's ranked where he is.  
   
 Q.   Is there anything on thebig points you would have done differently?   
JAMES WARD:   Well, looking back at it now I probably would have done something different, yeah, but when you're out there you've got to go with what you're feeling and what's working.   
At the time it was working, so yeah, just one or two points, you know.   If I serve and he hits the ball in the net, hits the ball long, we're sitting here talking about a great victory.   But he played well on the big points and that was the difference.  
   
 Q.   Sort of a Davis Cup dress rehearsal a little bit.   He's a class player from what you discovered in that encounter, and...   
JAMES WARD:   Yeah, of course.   He is classy.   He's been 30 in the world and he's ranked 50 at the moment.   He's a very tough competitor.   He moves great and he moves well on the grass, so I'm sure he moves even better on the clay where he's got a bit more time.  
Yeah, he serves big, as well, big first serve well placed, tough to get a read on it.   But, yeah, you know, there's still a few months before we play in Croatia, so looking forward to it.   You know, at least from the match today I showed I can give myself a good chance at it.  
   
 Q.   Are you happy with things at the moment as compared to things a year ago?  
JAMES WARD:   Yeah, very happy.   Since Davis Cup I've really felt like I gained a lot of confidence from that match and moved on and played in China, made a final there, some tough conditions.   Come back and took a few weeks of training, getting ready for these few weeks and leading into the summer and to the US Open, and then obviously Davis Cup, as well, it's going to be a tough time and a big physical effort, so I have been getting ready for that.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT