AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 8, 2009
James Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. BAGHDATIS/J. Ward
  6-2, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Was it just tough to get into that match?  
 JAMES WARD: It was. Some days you just don't see the ball and feel the ball as well. And no excuses, you know. I've been trying hard all year to get into a position like this, and it didn't work out today.  
  
  Q. Is there a question of being intimidated, playing a former world No. 8?  
 JAMES WARD: Not really, because I've played the same sort of level players and better players than him before. It's not really about intimidation.   
 Um, obviously he's a good player and he plays well, so credit to him. He came out today and returned well, but I thought he would, anyway. It's no real big surprise.   
  
  Q. What positives are there to take from your performance today?  
 JAMES WARD: I'm not quite sure at the moment.  
 I don't know. Just playing in these tournaments is always good experience. It's another one, another match under my belt to learn from and hopefully take it into next week with Eastbourne and then Wimbledon after that.  
  
  Q. Are you confident of getting a wildcard in Wimbledon?   
 JAMES WARD: I hope so, yeah. At the end of the day, it's up to them, up to the All England Club. I hope I've done enough all year round and my recent results have been enough to push for one, anyway.   
  
  Q. You talked about taking this match and learning from it. What are things you are hoping to learn from it?  
 JAMES WARD: I don't know. Maybe a little bit of sort of dealing with the bigger points when I was a break point down, maybe not going for so much on my first serve, things like that. It's nothing really too major. Just look at a few different points, watch the video back and go from there.  
  
  Q. Is one of the hardest parts of your job these moments here, picking yourself up, not getting too down with things?  
 JAMES WARD: Yeah. That's why I sort of have got a coach to do that and family that supported me as well today. Their job is a little bit of that, as well, and I've got to do it myself. You know, you can't win every week. If I did, I'd be Rafa Nadal.   
 You take losses and pick yourself up and move on and look forward to next week at Eastbourne.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT