WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2015
James Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. POSPISIL/J. Ward
  6‑4, 3‑6, 2‑6, 6‑3, 8‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Thoughts on the match?   His serving at the end seemed to be outstanding. 
JAMES WARD:   It was.   It was impressive serving, especially at the end.   We both went through different stages of playing well, serving well.   And, you know, his came at the right time.   Towards the end of the match, it was difficult to break. 

Q.   What was the experience of being on Court1 like?
JAMES WARD:   I've been on there before, a couple of times.   I played with Fish there a couple years ago.   But, yeah, it's always special, you know. 
It's tough to describe, the support, everyone is looking out for you, cheering for you, it's unbelievable.   It definitely helps. 

Q.   What are the emotions?   Do you feel that was a big chance missed given the fact when he went off for the toilet break, he appeared to be mentally shocked, but he came back seemingly rejuvenated after that?
JAMES WARD:   Yeah, in which case, it's not up to me how he feels.   Credit to him.   If he goes out for a toilet break, comes back playing better, you know, a lot of guys do it. 
Yeah, as I said, just credit to him really.   Of course, it's a chance missed.   It would have been the same for him had I got over the line. 
Obviously you look at both rankings and seedings this week, you see a few of the guys have gone out.   Obviously it's a chance.   It would be silly to say it's not. 
But it's still progress.   Onwards and upwards from here. 

Q.   What will you take out of this week?
JAMES WARD:   Yeah, of course.   It's difficult right now.   I'll watch it back in the next few days. 
But it's tough, as I just said in another interview.   A couple of points.   8‑6 in the fifth set.   If you can tell me there's a big difference between both of us, I'd love to know it. 

Q.   What would be your game plan now?   Obviously there's Davis Cup.   I presume you'll be into a few more tournaments than you might otherwise have been. 
JAMES WARD:   Yeah, after that, obviously six‑week entry.   I haven't even looked at it.   I don't know exactly what my ranking will go to after this week, after next week when it goes on. 
We'll worry about schedule afterwards, after Davis Cup, see where we go. 

Q.   Do you take a couple of days off now?
JAMES WARD:   I will do, for sure.   We've got a couple of weeks before Davis Cup.   I've got at least 10 days before.   So definitely couple of days off, get the body back to normal, then start playing again on the grass and get ready for the next big one. 

Q.   Can I ask what the umpire said to you?
JAMES WARD:   He told me not to swear because there were microphones at the back.   Yeah, I apologized, and that was it.

Q.   Is it a bit disarming, not just in your match, we've seen it quite a few times here this week, of line judges sort of snitching almost. 
JAMES WARD:   I guess it's their job.   You know, maybe it's an argument to have of it takes emotion out of the game.   But, yes, we should really try and keep our emotions intact as best as possible and have respect for the rules. 

Q.   Did you have a chance to speak to your dad after the match?
JAMES WARD:   No.   Literally gone to the toilet and come here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT