ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2016
Yulia Putinseva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WILLIAMS/Y. Putinseva
5-7, 6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. Just first off, what are your thoughts after the match?
YULIA PUTINSEVA: I'm tired.  (Smiling.)
Q. You worked very hard to challenge Serena out there and take that first set; had opportunities in the second set.  How do you think that match kind of worked in your favor, you got that lead?  And then what did Serena do or you do to change things and get that result?
YULIA PUTINSEVA: I think the match was very close and very far from being on my side.  I was trying to do everything what I can, to run, to cover, to attack when I can, to go forward.  But it just was unlucky situation end of the second set for me.
But it's okay.  I mean, still have some years to play Grand Slams.
Q. Speaking of the end of that second set, I mean, do you think that there was anything that you could have done differently there?  Do you think it was just luck?  Do you think it was just Serena?  What do you think?
YULIA PUTINSEVA: Well, of course I could put the ball in and hopefully touch the net so it can just drop there.  (Smiling.)  Two times.  Yeah, but happen what happen.  I cannot change anything for now.
But I'm happy that my game is improving and that I'm doing better and better.
Q. The first two times you played her you had chances in that first set; weren't able to win it.  This time you actually got that first set and put yourself in a position in the second.  What did you learn from the first two matches that you applied here?
YULIA PUTINSEVA: I think I have more experience now, because I played two times before with Serena on the big courts.  This time I was just more confident when I was serving for a set.  I was just not thinking.  I was just doing it and it went well.
Q. Was there a moment during the second set you actually thought, I have a chance to win this match?
YULIA PUTINSEVA: Well, I always was thinking that I can win the match.  Even when I was 5-0 down in the third I was thinking that I can come back.  (Laughter.)
Q. Looking to the rest of the season, what's the goal?  What do you want to achieve?
YULIA PUTINSEVA: I want to have myself healthy without any injuries and keep improving on my game.
Q. Obviously you are maybe disappointed now, but if you look back on this tournament and, you know, your performance, what do you think, yeah, you can take away from this tournament?  If you describe your experience here in one word or two words or whatever, what would it be?
YULIA PUTINSEVA: Of course I had some great wins here.  I win some really good matches.  I won it in straight sets.  I'm really happy with that.  I'm really happy with the level that I was playing during all of this tournament.
I was not missing a lot.  I was doing more winners.  Yeah, I got a lot of experience now.  I played on center court here in Roland Garros, which is great.
I just hope to come back stronger and next time to play better in important moments.
Q. There seemed to be a nice conversation with Serena at the end.  What did you say to each other at the net?
YULIA PUTINSEVA: Not so much.  She said it was a great fight and good luck.  Most of the things was like that.
Q. Do you like the grass?
YULIA PUTINSEVA: Yeah.  It's fine.
Q. So the transition to now go play on grass tournaments and preparation for Wimbledon, you're comfortable with it?
YULIA PUTINSEVA: Yeah, of course.  Why not?  (Smiling.)
Q. You came out there with a clear game plan against Serena and you tried a bunch of different things.  What did you think worked well?  What were some things that you thought were going to work and you decided in the middle of the game, no, no, no, I'm not going to do that anymore?
YULIA PUTINSEVA: Well, actually I'm never going into the match with some kind of plans or something.  I am just going and trying to play how I feel, because I'm seeing the court well.  I can do many tactics on the court.
When I'm going there -- well, I played her few times.  Of course I had a picture in my game what I should do and what should I not do.
And when I went there I felt comfortable by doing like some kind of game that I need to play longer points, and I just did it and that's all.
Q. Just to clarify that again, when you go on the court you like to have no plan?
YULIA PUTINSEVA: Well, it's not that I'm sitting before a match against someone with my coach and thinking, Oh, my god, where we should go.  This girl, she has worse forehand.  We should go on the forehand.
No, this is not what is happening before the matches.  Sometimes when I really don't know the player maybe I could go to YouTube and watch it and see what she does, but usually I'm just going in and trying to play my game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT