NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 16, 2012
Mike Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Mike Smith.   
   
 Q.   How would you describe the mood of the team right now?  
MIKE SMITH:   Well, I think after realizing where we're at, I mean, there's no need to hit the panic button.   I think we have to start with tomorrow night's game, win that one, not look too far ahead.   Can't worry about what's happened in the past.   We have to move on, try and get better.  
   
 Q.   To get the offense going, how much is it creating traffic and making it difficult on Quick?   
MIKE SMITH:   Obviously in the playoffs you have to do everything you can to create opportunities for your team.   It starts with getting pucks to people at the net.   That's what time of year it is, to be able to score goals on Vezina Trophy nominee goalies, not let him see the pucks or get to the rebounds.   
   
 Q.   Switching to the road, is this a good time to get a change of scenery?  
MIKE SMITH:   We played well so far on the playoffs on the road.   Obviously they're a good team.   We're going to have to up our game to try and get a big win tomorrow night.   
   
 Q.   Other goalies in the past, when they talk about the way their team plays, get in trouble with their team.   Seems like that's not an issue.   You're a leader on this team.   Do you consider that part of what it is you do on this team, is being honest?  
MIKE SMITH:   I think anywhere in life honesty is the virtue.   I don't say it to put anyone down.   I think we all know as a team we need to be better.   It's not just coming from me.   I think everyone recognizes in our dressing room that we haven't played up to our capabilities.   That's not one person.   I'm included in that.   
It's that time of the season where everyone needs to elevate their game ‑ me included.   We're in the Conference Finals for a reason.   We haven't played near to our capabilities so far in this series like we have in the past.   We all recognize that.   I think it starts with me.   
   
 Q.   There's a sense of frustration from some guys about here you are in this big moment and you're not playing the kind of game you want to play.   How hard is it to not let frustration seep into it way you're playing?  
MIKE SMITH:   It's always been frustrating so far.   It's one thing to lose when you're playing your best.   When you're losing games and not playing up to your capabilities, that's why it's frustrating.   
We start with one game.   We need one win right now.   That's all we can control.   We can't win four game in one game.   We're not looking too far ahead.   This series is far from over.   
   
 Q.   How much is it you not playing well or how much is it them?  
MIKE SMITH:   They're a great team.   I'm not taking anything away from them.   They're here for a reason.   They beat two very good hockey teams that have had great seasons to get themselves in the Conference Finals.   They're a hard team to play against.   Obviously they have some skilled players that play a hard game.   Their defense take care of their net very well.   Obviously have a great goaltender.   They have the whole package that's tough to penetrate.   
Obviously we feel we can improve and play a lot better than we have.   I think that's a positive we can take.   We haven't played that well, not even close actually to what we're capable of playing, and we're finding ourselves in hockey games still.   
   
 Q.   A big part of your success in the first two rounds was giving you a good look at the puck and clearing the rebounds.   
MIKE SMITH:   I think they're just a hungry team.   Like I said, they're not in the Conference Finals by accident.   They've done good things throughout the whole playoffs to give them chances to score.   
All I can worry about is stopping the puck.   I have to do a better job of that.   Everyone else will look after themselves.  
   
 Q.   What is your sense of Shane, the disappointment of being thrown out of that game?   What do you expect to see from him?   
MIKE SMITH:   Got a little bit of a rest tonight, so should be skating (laughter).   
Doaner is going to be hungry to get back in the lineup.   Obviously it was disappointing to lose him for half a game.   But it is what it is.   Can't take that back now.   Sure he's been a leader for us all season long, huge part of being where we are today.   Hungry to get back in the lineup and I'm sure he'll bring the intensity we need to be a better team.   
   
 Q.   Was the incident with Brown called correctly?  
MIKE SMITH:   I don't know.   You can be the judge of that.   
   
 Q.   You've been to this stage of the season before.   You know how rare it can be to get this far.   Why is it for some people such a challenge to raise their games to that next level?   Is experience part of that?  
MIKE SMITH:   I think we have some experienced guys that have played in the playoffs thus far.   Obviously there's some players that haven't been in it this deep.   
I don't think you can use it as an excuse.   I think everyone knows what it takes now to play in the playoffs.   We played enough games now in the playoffs where we know the intensity it's going to take.   
Obviously it's elevated the longer you go, the further you go in the playoffs.   We haven't yet elevated our game to where it needs to be when we're this close to the Stanley Cup finals.   We recognize that.   We'll be better tomorrow night because of it.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Mike.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT