U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2018
Stephen Behr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So you got a lead and you were able to play from out in front again.
STEPHEN BEHR: Yeah, Sam played really, really well.  Really happy to get past that match.  I knew very early on the way he was swinging, the putts he was making early, that I was going to have to earn everything I got today.
Just played very steady.  My mentality for this tournament is I want my opponent to feel like they have to play perfect golf beat me, and I'm not going to give them anything.
I did that pretty well today and I was lucky to come out on top.
Q. You birdie the 5th hole to give yourself the lead.  How did you do that?
STEPHEN BEHR: That's true.  Yeah, I actually hit kind of a bad tee ball into the rough.  With that pin being back right, I just hit a good little gap wedge that landed on the front.
Greens were a lot firmer and quicker today.  Ran a lot of putts by.  Just couldn't believe how fast they got.  But that one actually the rough almost worked to my advantage there and I was able to run it short and let it run up, and he actually made 5.  I just had to two-putt to win the hole and dropped it in.
Q. And then you increased your lead on that par-5 to 12.
STEPHEN BEHR: Yep.  No, that was key.  I made a good par putt on the par-3 before that.
Q. Okay.
STEPHEN BEHR: That was a big momentum putt.
Q. How long was that?
STEPHEN BEHR: Probably about eight, ten feet to stay 2-up, which was key.
Then on that par-5 he wasn't able to make birdie and I made about another eight-footer to get 3-up.  There is a big difference mentally I think between 2-up and 3-up.
Unfortunately I gave it right back on the next hole, but it was big that I had that 3-up lead to kind of give myself a little cushion.
Q. And then you were able to close it out on the 16th hole.
STEPHEN BEHR: Yep, second day in a row I was able to close it out on 16 just by making a par; 4 on that hole gets it done every time.  It's such a hard hole, especially with that pin today.
But it was getting really close there.  He had about four-footer to win the hole on 15 to go only 1-down, and he just missed it a hair to the right.  So I dodged a bullet there and capitalized on the next hole.
Q. Last one:  As you go along, are you feeling more and more comfortable on this golf course?
STEPHEN BEHR: Yeah, I think the more reps you can get on a course the better.  Felt pretty comfortable starting match play, but just trying to execute shots and execute my game plan the same as I have in past rounds.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT