U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2018
Stephen Behr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're up two late in the match.  What happened from there?  
STEPHEN BEHR: We had a hell of a match.  Not going to sugarcoat it.  Everything from the very beginning -- birdies were winning holes; no holes were given.   
He birdied 2 and 3 out of the gate and I hung in there.  Played really, really well.  Just kind of chipped away at his lead.   
And then, yeah, I got up a couple on the back, but then he comes right back on, what hole was that?   
 Q.  14 he hit a birdie.  
STEPHEN BEHR: 14, yeah.  I mean, I hit two great shots there and lagged it to that really hard pin.  He has a really difficult putt and pours it in.  Kudos to him for making that.   
I mean, if I was him I would be worried about potentially running that by and going 3-down.  But he makes it, so that was a huge putt.   
We both birdie the in next hole.  I make about a 12-footer and he pours in about a 7-footer on top of me.   
Next hole looks like he's going to make bogey, and I hit two great shots in there.  Made a great par, and he hits his bunker shot up there a foot.   
And then I just unfortunately made a couple bad swings on 17 and made bogey, and then 18 here I'm in the middle of the fairway and just two 7-irons, just driving range 7-irons, and I just came out of both of them.  Didn't stay down with them.   
Then he makes about a 25-footer from above the hole on the last hole.  So I mean, what can I say?  He won it.  Although it stings because I finished poorly, he won it today.  He played better.   
 Q.  What kind of lie did you have in the bunker on the third shot?  
STEPHEN BEHR: Not good, and not good on the second one either.  Just was up against the back of the lip.  There is a lot of sand in the bunkers this week, so it makes that shot even more difficult.  You got to really make sure that you don't leave it in the bunker.   
Unfortunately I juiced it a little bit too much; goes over.  I hit a great one to what I thought was going to extend the match.  Same thing here.  That putt he has, you got to be careful on that one.  You can run that one six feet by and lose the match here.   
Congrats to him for making that.  That was a great putt.   
 Q.  Obviously first experience in a Mid Amateur.  
STEPHEN BEHR: Yeah.   
 Q.  I know you haven't had time to reflect yet, but what was your experience like here and how will it motivate you for down the road?  
STEPHEN BEHR: Huge positive for me this week.  Just qualifying for this event is an honor.  I've had this event circled on my calendar for a while.  For me to come in here, qualify, medal, and play so well, I mean, I feel like almost medaling puts a target on your back.  I feel like I got everyone's best.  The three matches I played I got really quality matches.  Everyone played really well.   
You know, I just got beat.   
 Q.  Yeah.  And looking down the road, how will it motivate you?  Will you want to play more?  I know you've got to work, but...  
STEPHEN BEHR: I'll always have this tournament circled on the calendar.  I still think I'm good enough to win this thing.  I'm still going to sign up every year.  We'll see where the future takes me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT