U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2018
Stephen Behr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You took the lead on 4?
STEPHEN BEHR: Let's see here.  He won No. 2 with a birdie; I won No. 3 and 4 with a par, a birdied/par; he made bogey.
But then he won No. 8 with a par, and so we were all square through 8.
Q. Uh-huh.
STEPHEN BEHR: And then I par'd 9 and he bogeyed for me to go 1-up.
Honestly, wasn't a whole lot of birdies being made, but it was playing really difficult out there today with the wind and the tough pin locations.
So really par was a great score on a lot of the holes out there.  We had really good match.  He did not -- we did not give each other anything as far as -- we both played great golf.  I think he would say the same.  And we had a great match.  Went right down to the very end.
Q. Coming into today, did you feel a little more pressure because you're a medalist?
STEPHEN BEHR: I mean, not really.  I mean, it's all about what you make it.  Of course you don't want to medal and then get put out first round, which I feel like happens in a lot of these events because the person who medaled usually plays a little bit defensively and the person that gets in the playoff has some momentum.
I just tried to stay in control of things that I can control, and that's what I focused.  I mentally executed a lot of shots out there today.
Q. Then knowing that the course is playing a little bit harder today, did you find yourself playing more conservatively because of it?
STEPHEN BEHR: Yeah, I think naturally I wanted to make sure that if he won any holes it wasn't because I was giving him holes.  I wanted to him earn everything he got.
Yeah, with the conditions out here today, definitely a little bit more on the conservative side.
Q. Heading into tomorrow's round of 32, same mindset?  Change the game plan at all?
STEPHEN BEHR: Have to see how it's playing.  I don't know what the weather is supposed to be like tomorrow or how they'll set up the course.  It will be kind of a we'll figure it out when we get out here tomorrow.
If it's the same as it was today with the pins and everything else, then, yeah, it'll be same game plan.
Q. How do you feel about your golf game as a whole right now?
STEPHEN BEHR: Great.  Feel very good about my game.  Feel very good control tee to green, and feel like I'm rolling the putter pretty good too with good speed on the greens.
I'm very comfortable with the course and looking forward to the rest of the week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT