INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 20, 2016
Yogi Ferrell
Tory Williams
Thomas Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Indiana - 77
Purdue - 73
THE MODERATOR: First question.
Q. You had only four turnovers all day.
YOGI FERRELL: We did a great job sharing the ball.  We didn't force anything.  I feel like we took the open shots, got it inside.  Our big guys were phenomenal down there, trying to work against those big guys.
We shared the ball.  When we got in the paint, we basically got whatever we wanted.  They go the stats back there.  13 for 15 in the paint.  Our biggest thing was always wanting to get to the heart of the defense, kick it out, find out whatever.
Q. What was the difference today regarding turnovers?
YOGI FERRELL: I think, yeah, experience, not playing in these tight games.  Also not trying to make the home run pass.  This man to my left had a phenomenal game.  Kept his head up.  Didn't force it when it wasn't there.  Went to the offensive glass.  He found shooters.  When he's doing that, playing at such a high level, we feed off that energy.
Q. (No microphone.)
YOGI FERRELL: Guys like me, Troy, Rob, Nick, we got to go in and get the rebound basically.  We know that we were going to have to go in there and help our big guys out.
Q. How crucial were you for each other in terms of being able to read the game and coach another other, and Max?
THOMAS BRYANT: It was real important.  With me out there, I needed my coaches, even Max out there, for the scouting reports and all.
We just did our best out there guarding their big men.  Hammons and Haas are two big guys.  They're very talented out there in the low post.
I just tried to do everything I could, and so did Max.
Q. Thomas, you scored the first seven points.  Was that the plan?
THOMAS BRYANT: The possessions just played out that way.  Coach told me when to be aggressive.  If I don't have it, kick it out.  Fortunately I had it.  I just took it.  Just played out that way.  Just my time.
Q. Troy, you come back with two strong games after Michigan State.  Anything change?
TROY WILLIAMS: Just stayed in the attack mindset.  Trying not to force anything, let the game come to me.
Q. Talk about everyone hitting threes.
YOGI FERRELL: Yeah, I think Max did an unbelievable job in the second half screening and popping basically.  I mean, they couldn't guard all of us at once, so they had to give something up.  I felt like Max did a great job getting his feet set, getting his hands set, getting ready to shoot and knocking down those open jumpers.
Like I said, we wanted to get in the paint, that kind of opened the court for us.
Q. Yogi, how important were Max and Thomas in terms of taking that strength away from them and their bigs?
YOGI FERRELL: Yeah, well, Coach Martin did a great job talking to our bigs, showing them film of their tendencies, what they liked to do.  I felt like Thomas, Juwan and Max did a great job of doing that game plan onto the court.
You know, could have seen all of them fouling out.  Surprised they didn't.  But, you know, they used up their fouls, that's fine.  They were fighting them down there.  I was just proud of the way they fought 'em.
Q. Talk about Robert Johnson's injury.
YOGI FERRELL: I think Rob is doing all right.  Just next man stepping up.
Q. (No microphone.)
YOGI FERRELL: Yeah, I mean, I was just going to take whatever the defense gave me.  I felt like it was basically a one-on-one drive.  I had someone in the corner, I can't remember.  I felt like the lane was wide open for the layup, and I ended up getting it.
Q. How does Max's Big Ten experience help?
THOMAS BRYANT: It helps a lot.  Me coming in, being a freshman, not knowing the ways of the Big Ten so much, also playing in these big games, it helps with my teammates like Yogi and Troy, also Max who is a big man down there in the post, telling me what might happen.  That makes a big help for me trying to help and offensively.
Q. How does it feel to be in control of your destiny this late in February in the Big Ten?
YOGI FERRELL: Man, it's great.  I felt like we had a couple lulls, a couple losses here and there.  But I felt like we bounced back from those losses really well.  It's helped us win these games.
We stayed with it.  We have a very communicative team, I feel like.  We're always talking.  We're always talking other team's tendencies.  We listen to each other.  We just take it onto the court.
I just feel that connectivity is there for us right now.
Q. Thoughts on Troy's last two games?
YOGI FERRELL: Yeah, I mean, Troy playing like that, he's basically unstoppable.  What he does is he gets lost in the game.  When I'm driving and I find him, I'm definitely going to hit him, he's going to be wide open, he can dunk it for us.
He's doing a great job being patient, not trying to force it, taking what the defense gives him.  He's been working on shooting.  I think it's a big confidence factor.  He's had that the last two games.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT