TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 22, 2016
Baker Mayfield
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Oklahoma - 66, Texas Tech - 59   
 Q.  Baker, what an offensive night.  One of the best ever.  What did you think?  Start from the beginning?  
BAKER MAYFIELD: Obviously a credit to their offense.  They kept making us push to keep scoring.  Obviously we just needed to keep going.  Our defense, I know we'll get it figured out.  They're obviously not happy with how they played, but you've got to feed off each other.  That's the thing we talked about so far this year.   
Kind of have to play off each other and keep the momentum.  If they need help scoring, we can pick up the slack.  That's what we did.  Obviously when we went up against an offense like that, Patrick Mahoney making that many plays, you've got to keep pressing and scoring.  Credit to make it an exciting game.   
 Q.  Talked all year about staying within yourself.  Coming into this environment, playing the way you did tonight, your best, what does that mean?  
BAKER MAYFIELD: I've settled in.  And Coach Riley gets a lot of credit for that.  He's had me create on the game plans, settled in, focused on the little details.  Like I said, earlier after the Ohio State loss, just getting back to the basics, going back through the game plans and basically going through our installs again.  Learning it all again and just focusing on the square one reads realizing, yeah, I have been here before, but at the same time you've gotta do the little things right to be successful.  He's coached me up really well, and got our offense in a position to score points like that.   
 Q.  Talk about the challenge of having to score and keeping the guys in the game, because it would be easy to be complacent scoring every time, but you guys really didn't flinch or you might have been in trouble?  
BAKER MAYFIELD: I let them know really quickly we weren't going to flinch.  We knew they had a high-powered offense.  I told some of the guys at halftime, if you're scared and you don't want to score every drive stay in here.   
So we did just that.  We came out on fire and we knew we had to score a lot of points.  We did a good job executing.  Proud of our guys.  Our line played great.   
Joe had a great game.  I don't know how many touchdowns he had, but the kid's a great player.  And to think we were doing it without Samaje back there as well, to think that when he's healthy, we'll have two horses back there.   
 Q.  When you ran off the field, you said something along the lines of (indiscernible).  Can you talk about, to be able to have that personal accomplishment here, especially tonight, what that felt like for you?  
BAKER MAYFIELD: You know, it's great to come in here get a victory.  Obviously there's a lot of history with the fact that I came to school here.   
But the college football part, people yelling the chants, that's what makes it fun.  You come in, you have an offense.  We played great.  And come out with a victory, Big 12 Conference, undefeated in the Big 12 now, it feels good.  Feels good to get a good team win and move on.   
Yeah, defense didn't play great.  Came out with a victory, that's all that matters at this point.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) student section.  You had the "FU Baker" chants during the game.  People were throwing stuff at you when you left.  Did you think that's exactly what it was going to be like?  
BAKER MAYFIELD: That's exactly how I thought it was going to be.  And I enjoyed it.  It makes it fun.   
 Q.  How can you enjoy it?  
BAKER MAYFIELD: It's fun.  It makes it enjoyable.  They come out and compete and bring their A game.  Like I said, college football is fun for that reason.   
But the fans bring their stuff.  They let you know that they don't like you.  And that's how it is in every away game.  They just do it a little better than a lot of people.  Makes it enjoyable.  Obviously the history made it more serious for them.  So, like I said, it's a good team win and it made it a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Bringing your best game, checking at the line of scrimmage.  How many big plays would you guesstimate came from -- you (indiscernible)?  
BAKER MAYFIELD: A good amount.  I think I did a good job of that.  It wasn't one of my better games audibling at the line.   
But at the same time because of the game plan we had, Coach Riley had me thinking if they line up one way, run it.   
Obviously if they do something else, check out.  He had me ready for it.  That's not me.  It's the fact that he prepared me for it and I was able to go out there and execute it.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
BAKER MAYFIELD: Like I said, it's a good team win.  I've got a lot of respect for the guys I still know in the program.  Coach Kingsbury, respect him a lot.  And obviously Patrick.  A guy doesn't do that unless he's a great player.   
And so it was a good win for us, the fact that we came away going up against that offense.   
So I just said hi to the guys, congratulations and good luck the rest of the year.  Just moved on.  Came back in the locker room with my guys.   
 Q.  The fact you didn't have Samaje, and Joe tonight carried the load, talk about what he meant to you.  
BAKER MAYFIELD: He's huge.  And the fact that people were finally able to see he really can do it all, it's pretty special.  His natural ability.  He's just a great player.  He's a tough kid.  He can catch like a receiver and run like a running back.   
So it's good to see him having fun and enjoying the moment and obviously having some success as well.  Just going to keep using him.  And proud of Abdul Adams as well stepping up, good runs, young guy.  He's going to be a great player eventually.  And he's going to continue to learn and we're going to continue to teach him.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) third downs and big plays (indiscernible)?  
BAKER MAYFIELD: He's a reliable guy.  He's a reliable guy.  You throw it his way, he's going to come down with it.  Trust him a lot.  And the coaches are kind of realizing that.   
He's a guy that we can rely on his for-sure hands on third downs.  He's made a lot of catches and just thinking about going back to the TCU game and Texas game as well.   
He's been making plays.  And I imagine he's going to continue to get the ball more and more.   
 Q.  One of the biggest plays right before the half, they scored -- you had 37 seconds.  A lot of games (indiscernible)?  
BAKER MAYFIELD: It's a momentum killer.  And I looked at the guys on the kickoff return, and I said if you give me a good return, we're going to go score.   
Obviously we were backed up a little bit.  I think we had a touchback.  I can't remember.  Touchback, 37 seconds.  Had a deep post.   
I really thought I threw that ball far.  But you can't outthrow No. 11.  Kid's too fast.  He made a good play.  Held onto the ball.  And then got the review.  We were able to call in a play.  All at the line.  That was one of them to get Nick into that route.  So he did a good job of breaking free and using his speed to clear the safety.   
 Q.  Are you shocked after a game like this, when you see the numbers, or do you know what's going on (indiscernible)?  Seven touchdowns.  
BAKER MAYFIELD: I didn't know I had that.  I knew we had great offensive numbers.  But the only thing when I'm down there is thinking about winning the game and doing what's necessary to come out with a victory for the team.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT