ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 13, 2018
Amy Satterthwaite
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Australia - 153/7, New Zealand - 120/all out   
 Q.  Obviously not the result you wanted tonight, Amy.  Where do you think things went wrong there?  
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: I think, as I said earlier, probably all three facets of the game, we were outplayed.  I think we can't afford to drop someone like Healy as early as we did, especially in the form that she's in.   
And I think we probably bowled to our plans and pitches, but just the consistency of executing them.  And like I said, losing 18 wickets every game against the bigger teams, I guess you expect to win when you're doing that.   
 Q.  How were you feeling at the innings, seems like the second half you did really well to take back the Australians?  
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: Like I said, there's some pitches we were executing what we wanted to do.  The fact we did that was really pleasing.  But just, I guess, the consistency is still the area that we've got to keep improving if we want to be competing with the top teams.   
 Q.  Is that sort of the same with the batting lineup, too, a few of those younger players needing to take the next step to back up, Suzie and Sophie?  
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: To be honest, it's probably some of the senior players as well.  I think Suzie's batted outstanding.  And Katie had some good little outstanding innings and Sophie and myself have not scored any runs in the tournament.  We can't be winning games if we're not stepping up in situations like this.  We want to try and get a bit more out of the youngsters, but the senior players, some of us really need to step it up.   
 Q.  Any bowlers you were particularly impressed with tonight?  
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: I thought the spinners I thought lead off very well.  And I think Lea still hit the heat we've wanted.  And some really good pace in there.   
 Q.  It's been pretty evident in this tournament that Australia really pulled forward from the other teams. So after the tournament, when you do go back home, what would you like to see happen in New Zealand cricket to help you guys sort of lift your game as well?  
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: That's a really difficult question to probably answer.  I think there's lots of areas that have been highlighted the last probably six months.  Possibly even longer, that we've got to try and really build on.  And, like I said earlier, it's in all three facets of the game.  I don't think it's one area in particular.  I think we've got some really talented players here that we're probably not getting the performances out of them that we'd like.  So that's certainly one aspect of it, I guess, but it's also training that's deep that's going to continue to put pressure on those players as well.   
 Q.  And New Zealand was traditionally one of the teams that could probably push Australia.  Now you've had the series back in Australia and this game, what's been a tonne of losses.  Is it frustrating to see yourself sort of fall back?  
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: Yes.  It's definitely not a nice feeling.  I think especially when I've been playing for so long and throughout my career we've been really competitive with Australia.  So to feel like we're probably slipping a little bit, yes, certainly is frustrating.  But we've got to keep having the belief that we can win on our day.   
And like I say, we've got some talented players, if we can get performances out of them on the same day, then I think we can be a team that can beat teams.  But we just haven't been able to do that of late.   
 Q.  Would you say that you have that good depth currently, enough replacements coming in who can just fit in at a national level?  
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: I think we've got glimpses of it.  You've seen likes of Amelia Kerr come in at times in the last sort of 12 to 18 months and really slot in nicely and perform brilliantly.   
Certainly the odd player there, but it's probably something we've got to keep building.  You've seen the likes of Australia and England with the competitions that they've brought in, that have started to probably grow their depths even more and we've got to keep addressing it in our country.   
 Q.  Over the last few tournament cycles, New Zealand has developed a reputation of doing well leading up to a tournament, coming in almost as favourites but then not doing well in the tournament.  Is that a reputation that concerns you?  
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: I think probably of late we haven't performed that well going into the tournament or haven't performed well in the tournament.   
So evidently that reputation is changing a little bit, but either way we want to be winning games of cricket, whether it's in or outside of tournaments.  We're probably not doing it of late against the top teams and it's something we've really got to address.   
 Q.  You got two more games here.  What are you going to look to get out of those, especially with some of those younger players?  
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: To a certain extent, I think a bit of pride, showing what we can do as a team.  I think we've underperformed from where we can be.  So really lifting that would probably be the number one thing.   
 Q.  Just building on that, what is going to be your message when you go back and talk to your teammates tonight?  
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: It's going to be tough.  I think we have to admit that the situation we're in, it's not a nice place to be.  But at the same time we have got two games of cricket that, like I said, it's all about pride to a certain extent.  And we've got to make sure we keep focusing forward on those ones as much as we can and just trying to keep our heads up and our spirits up to ensure we can go out and perform on the park.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT