ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 9, 2018
Amy Satterthwaite
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








INDIA - 194/5, New Zealand 160/9
Q. Your assessment of the game.
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: I think we were outside in the last innings, obviously outstanding. But disappointing thing to me is that we weren't executing our bowling, playing. It just makes it difficult to bowl against someone who is in form like that.
Q. You thought your choice of bowlers, in terms of the type of bowler you had just kind of played into her hands?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: To a certain extent I don't think we adjusted well enough.  We talked about how she likes to play.  I've obviously played with her in England.  So I've certainly seen how she can hit the ball.  We talked about what was required, but like I said I don't think we executed it a lot of the time.
Q. You had a pretty good (indiscernible) and that's something you said you wanted the team to work on. So after that, what went right in the powerplay?  And after that, how did things go?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: Well, actually to be fair with the batting, when you are chasing 194, you know you need a really special innings. And unfortunately we didn't get that today.  I thought Suzie was outstanding at the top.  And to be fair, taking the total out of it, I thought we were actually better than right in pitches and showed some improvement from previous games.
I think there's a couple of us like myself didn't hit enough into it.  And we've got to get it to bounce right.  Some positives from the players.
Q. Where does this leave you in the group?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: I think it's pretty obvious.  We know that we've got to win.  I think every game is a must-win.  We knew coming into this tournament, we talked about it yesterday, how important today was.  But if you want to be able to lift the trophy, you've got to win games of cricket.  We haven't hit the best out.  It's early days.  And we know we still have an opportunity.
Q. How did that innings from Harmanpreet rate for you in what you've seen in Women's T20?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: It's one of the best.  Obviously I've been fortunate enough to see some pretty special innings from the likes of Suzie Bates and Sophie Devine.  I'd say it was right up there.  Her striking was outstanding and her ability to clear the boundary is something that's pretty unique in a way.
Q. And also maybe the way she can clear the boundary in places perhaps women haven't traditionally been able to do it?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: Yeah, absolutely.  We know she's very good at hitting over each cover.  Obviously she got her big side shots as well.  She's got a pretty all-around game and it makes it obviously difficult to bowl to her if you don't get it right.  But we showed in the last over, we found something that worked.  But it was obviously a little too little, a little too late.
Q. You said at the last over you had something that worked.  So you had one over left over from Lea Tahuhu.  Do you think that was a tactical miss, looking back?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: Not necessarily.  I think you make those decisions in the moment.  And you choose the type of bowlers that you think are going to work.  And unfortunately at times you put bowlers on and they don't execute what you're asking.  And then you start to wonder if you made the right decision.  At the moment you go with your gut and instinct.
Probably could have bowled her out earlier.  I think I still, like I said, I made the decisions I did in the middle at the time for certain reasons. And it's always about whether or not it comes off.
Q. You said before the start of the tournament you needed some practise with the others. Do you think you sort of identified areas today where you could have used it?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: There's a couple of things we can probably tidy up about our process. I think it's obviously unique to be able to get situations where it comes up.  But in saying that I don't regret our decisions out in the middle about what we did.  I think they weren't powers as such.  I think it's easier from the sidelines to say that they were.  But you heard the discussion, you've got one saying it's missing, one saying it's hitting.  It's not real conviction.  I think you've got to go with your gut and instinct and we can't be resorting to sort of trying anything willy-nilly.  We've got to have a reason behind what we're doing.
Q. You've had a string of losses... so what's the morale on the team and how does one pick up from that?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: It's been pretty good.  I think even though the results haven't probably gone our way, the girls are still in reasonable spirits.  So it's obviously tough to keep it going if you're not winning, but I think we've got to keep believing in our ability.  Otherwise it makes it really -- probably makes it harder to get up for games.
I'm proud of the way the girls are holding themselves together and continuing to have that belief and it's something we'll have keep working on.
Q. What did you make of the pitch today?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: I thought it was a really good pitch.  Obviously had a bit more pace in it than the wicket in the warm-up.  Came on quite nicely.  Showed that you could really trust the wicket and hit through the ball, which is always a good one for, I guess, any game.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT