ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
November 3, 2018
Amy Satterthwaite
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for joining us.  We have with us this afternoon the captain of New Zealand, Amy Satterthwaite.  She's going to tell us everything we need to know about her team's preparation for this tournament.
Q. How does it feel to be playing a stand alone ICC Women's T20?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: Yeah, it's really exciting.  I think it shows where the women's game has come.  It's exciting to think what the future holds I guess.  To have a tournament like this where it standalone, it's also an opportunity for us to showcase or skill sets and I guess show the world where the women's game is at the moment.
Q. (Regarding West Indies.)
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: Yeah, it was really important.  I think any series is really important preparation.  But as you alluded to, it was in our home conditions; don't seem to travel too well over to New Zealand.  It's probably a little bit cold.
Equally I think we haven't had probably as greatest as successes as we would like with West Indian conditions, so it's something for us we want to try and rectify in this tournament and look to I guess really improve on our performances.
We also have never played in Guyana.  We're excited about what's that's going to present for us.
Q. Bit of a dodgy start to your captaincy.  What are you taking away from that?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: Look, I think Australia are a quality side.  We knew that we were going to have to play some really good cricket in order to beat them.  Unfortunately we didn't get the results we wanted.
At the same time, there were some really positive things within that.  I think players showed glimpses of performances but probably weren't as consistent as we would like.
I think looking forward to this tournament we know we need to improve our consistency and probably the discipline with both the bat and the ball.  In a tournament like this you know that you have to perform every single game when you're playing a different team each game.
Obviously to win a World Cup you have to beat all of them.  So we know how important that is.
Q. Do you think the series will have an effect on how you perform here in the West Indies?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: No, not specifically.  I think for us we want to I guess be as consistent like I say in our performances.  I think if we're doing that we should be in a good place.  We want to be playing our brand of cricket.  I think that's something that if we can reflect on and know we gave it our all in that sense, we should be happy with how we've gone.
Q. Couple days travelling.  Tell us about that and how everyone is feeling.
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: Yeah, it's one of the longest places to get to I think from New Zealand from that point of view.  I think the amazing thing is we're here and we're able to settled in and get that jet lag out of our system.  We've had a good run around this morning and it's nice to be here and start to soak up the environment.  I think everyone is starting to get the jet lag cobwebs off and we're looking forward to the first warmup game getting ready to go.
Q. How will you approach your preparation now? Will you be taking it easy?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: Yeah, absolutely.  We have to be really smart about how we go about things and ensure that we don't go too hard too soon and end up wit some injuries.  I think we're getting the balance right at the moment.  Equally we have to be peaking at the right times.  We know we've got a few days with a couple of warm-up games that will be extremely important for us and a couple more training before we play the first game.
Q. You've now bee to many World T20s.  How has the captaincy changed your preparation?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: From a personal point of view I think not too differently.  First and foremost I've got to be a player and perform with the bat and lead in that sense.  So certainly from that point of view trying to prepare as consistently and as normally as I can.
And the captain side of it is probably just a little bit of extra time to put the preparation into the little things that I need to from a captaincy point of view as well to ensure I'm leading the team as best he can.
Q. And you played in the final here six or eight years ago.  Do you think you'll get there?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: We would love to be.  I think that final for me, in a way that tournament holds a lot of find memories.  Obviously the final was quite disappointing.  I think it's a long time since then, and absolutely we would love to make the final.
I think we've got a quality side that when we have turned to a lot of previous World Cups we've got a team that could win it if we perform.
At the end of the day in a tournament like this it's about being consistent to be able to win as many games as you can, but also turning up on the day.  You could have whatever record you've got previously against certain teams, and ultimately it comes down to how you perform on the day.
Q. Do you have any hidden talent within the ranks that the cricket world should be scared of?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: I think it's easy to go through the usual probably big names we got on our side.  I'm to see how the likes of excited to see how the likes of Amelia Kerr and Leigh Kasperek bowl in this these conditions.  You would like to think they would suit them, but someone like Katey Martin is probably someone that we don't hear too much about.  I think she started to show some really key performances for us in the last sort of 12 months.  I think she could be really vital for us.
Q. You same so close in 2010, do you think you will go all the way this time?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: Yeah, it always brings back memories when you come back to a place like this and you do have an experience like that to look back on.  At the end of the day we know it's always a new tournament.  We can even reflect on how we went in last year's 50-over World Cup.  There are always memories you can keep looking back on.
It's always a new story, a new tournament, and I think we're really excited about what this one can bring.
Q. How far do you think women's cricket has come since the last time you were here playing a Women's World T20?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: A long way.  Having that sort of crowd around was awesome.  Hopefully the public can remember what that was like back then and get out and support the teams that are playing in this tournament.
But I think the quality of cricket has gone up in all facets of the game.  The interest from the media and the public has also gone up, which is fantastic to get it out there and get it in the public eye.
Q. We saw what effect the World Cup had on the women's game in England and Wales last year, do you think this tournament will have the same impact in the Caribbean?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: Yeah, absolutely.  I think playing in a place like the West Indies just brings so much vibrance and flair.  I guess goes alongside the way the women's game is going.  It's starting to have more flair about it as well.  It's exciting to have it in a place like this where it can stand on its own two feet and really get a name for itself.
Q. Have you prepared to use the DRS system?
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: No, it's something that we're going to have to learn pretty quickly.  Hopefully we'll have a slightly better record than our male counterparts.  We'll soon find out.  I think the warmup games are an opportunity for us to practice it in a way.  I think the process that we're going to go about is better on the field.  It's something that we've talked about that we want to try and implement in these warmup games just to ensure that we're not going in completely cold into the first game.
Q. (Regarding warmup games.)
AMY SATTERTHWAITE: Yeah, you've got to take the result out of it in a warm-up game in a tournament like this.  I think there is a real balancing act about trying to cement your plans and try to find some rhythm and consistency with those, as well as probably answer a couple of last-minute questions.
I think you can't be searching for too many answers and trying to find things that you don't have.  You've got to be pretty set in a lot of your plans and I guess iron them out.  It's a real good opportunity for us to play the next couple of quality sides and ultimately absorb as much information as we can about the conditions.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT