NL DIVISION SERIES: ROCKIES v PHILLIES
October 11, 2009
Ubaldo Jimenez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Ubaldo Jimenez. 

 Q. Ubaldo, what do you think you learned from the first time you faced this team that might be able to help you out tomorrow?
 UBALDO JIMENEZ: The first thing is never take anything for granted, just try to be the same every time. Like I did in the first four innings, I was so good and then suddenly I just lost everything. 
 So that's what it is. Just trying to stay focused the whole game and just keep going and challenge hitters, that's it.

 Q. Do you have to prepare or do you prepare any differently because this is a playoff game versus a regular season game, or is it your normal regiment, normal routine?
 UBALDO JIMENEZ: You know, it's different because like you never can compare it with any game like the regular season. But my approach is like I take everything the same. I don't do anything different.
 I have my same routine every time. I don't want to make anything different. I just want to take it as a normal game.

 Q. You're doing something that doesn't happen much in a regular season; facing the same team two starts in a row. When you do that, do you have a philosophy, like do you make -- anything particular that you try to change or do you stay with the game plan? 
 UBALDO JIMENEZ: I think the first thing is that you have to probably watch the video of the game that you pitch and trying to learn from the mistakes you make. And hopefully not doing the same mistakes as the first game. 

 Q. Where did things slip away for you in those later innings in Philadelphia? Have you had a chance to go back and look at the videos, something that's correctible, or how concerned are you on what happened there?
 UBALDO JIMENEZ: I'm not concerned at all. It's something mechanic, probably. Like in the first four innings, I was able to get ahead every time and then when I got to the fifth and sixth inning, I lost my control. I was falling behind in the count, and then I had to throw my fastball right in the middle, use my breaking ball. They took advantage of it.

 Q. With more at stake, do you expect the pressures to be different from the first game as opposed to tomorrow?
 UBALDO JIMENEZ: I don't know. I don't feel any pressure at all. Probably the pressure is on them because we are playing at home right now. It's good to be playing with your fans, different than playing like with the fans.

 Q. Does the cold weather concern you at all? I remember earlier in the season pitching in Chicago you had trouble gripping the ball. Does that concern you at all tomorrow with the cold weather?
 UBALDO JIMENEZ: You never want to be in that situation. But in this case this is where you want to be. Like if you want to make it to the playoff, this is the scenario. It's going to be cold. But I'm not going to put that in my mind; I'm just going to go out there and just pitch my game. 
 I'm not going to be thinking about the weather. I know I'm going to -- when I get there my blood is going to be, going to be good.

 Q. You said after the last game, you were beyond that kind of blowup you had in the fifth game, something that maybe would have happened in the fifth season but not lately, because of that did you change your routine at all in these last few days?
 UBALDO JIMENEZ: No, pretty much I did the same thing as I did before. Just threw my bullpen, just practiced the same thing I did before. It was a matter of a mechanical problem. I think I got it fixed in the bullpen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT