THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2016
Will Wilcox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Anything exciting today?
WILL WILCOX: No, nothing at all.  Am I supposed to just start talking?  What do you want me to do?
Q. Talk about your reaction.
WILL WILCOX: Obviously it was a lot of fun to see it drop.  Everybody in my family is here, so that was a special moment.  I was saying to my brother-in-law earlier, it's a good thing that Graham, my 19-month-old nephew, didn't come.  He would have lost his mind.  He wouldn't know what was going on in that crazy crowd.
But yeah, it was unbelievable, and to make the cut after that happening -- managing the nerves was something that, I'm proud of that.  Hitting that tee ball on 18, I looked at my hands, they were like that.  Yeah, so now I'm just glad I'm going to be around for the weekend.  Obviously the hole-in-one is huge, but playing for this big purse, and I'm just trying to keep my card.  To make the cut in this thing is awesome because I missed the cut by a mile last weekend in Charlotte.  I love this golf course.
Q. Did you choreograph that whole celebration?
WILL WILCOX: Yeah, I planned that this morning.  No, I was like, if you don't freak out in that moment -- but I've seen so many TOUR players make hole-in-ones and hole shots, and they're just like nothing, like what's wrong with you.  So especially in that situation, I just -- I get pumped up.
I came in 15th in New Orleans and I acted like I just won the Masters, and if I come in 38th here, then I'm going to party on Sunday night.
I just enjoy everything that happens to me out here, and this will be another, like, whatever, feather in the cap.
Q. Any celebration tonight?
WILL WILCOX: No, not now.  I need to play good this weekend, so we'll just go have a beer and --
Q. You seem to -- you hit it, you saw it land, and you seemed to be satisfied, and then you almost did a double take as it was still going.
WILL WILCOX: Yeah, it was just bizarre.  I can't believe it went in.  I needed to fly it up that slope and I chunked it a little bit, too, so it flew that perfect number but then had that little bit of run on it because if I would have caught that well, then it would have nipped a little bit more.  So yeah, it just fell in perfectly.
Q. Was there any deliberation on the club?
WILL WILCOX: Yeah, I was thinking 9, but luckily Cam hit first, he hit wedge, and we had a similar distance.  When I saw him hit wedge, it was an easy decision to pull that out because I know I can hit it as far as him.  Yeah.
Q. When you saw it in the air, what were you thinking?
WILL WILCOX: Fly up the slope.  I knew it wasn't going to go long, so that was good, because I chunked it a little bit.  I knew it had a good chance of being maybe as close as Cam's was, but when it spun left -- I had a little draw on it, though.  It was just ridiculous.  I can't believe it went in.
Q. Did you know it had been 14 years?
WILL WILCOX: Not at all, no.  I had no idea.  You don't know what's going on that situation.  Everybody is so pumped up about it, it's like, all right.  I'm glad I could provide some entertainment.
Q. Does that surprise on that hole that it's been 14 years?
WILL WILCOX: It does, it does.  It really does, because that front pin yesterday, I looked at the guys in my group, because it looked like everybody was -- so I was like, there's going to be a hole-in-one on that pin.  The back left pin is a total beast.  For it to happen on that pin for me is crazy because I was so nervous I could barely stand.  You saw that follow-through.  It was like really abbreviated, and it was just a pure just desperation hold.  Yeah, for it to go in was crazy because I was really, really nervous.
Q. When did you start using a yellow ball and why?
WILL WILCOX: In '13.  I mean, that's a Srixon gimmick, whatever.  I'm happy to make them happy.  I got my card that year.  You remember that.  So yeah, it's just, why change.
Q. What was the delay like?  Were there a lot of people coming up to you?
WILL WILCOX: Yeah, yeah, it was nuts.  Everybody was so excited.  You know, it shows me what it means to them.  I was just kind of -- I had no idea it was going to be what it is.  You know what I mean?  It was cool for it to go in.  Everybody around the hole was excited, but Twitter followers were exploding and all that stuff, which I think is great, because getting your name out there is always good, so obviously a lot of people in the world saw that.  Why would you not watch THE PLAYERS?  If I wasn't playing in it, I'd be sitting and watching it right now.  Just being honest.
Q. How many have you had in competition?
WILL WILCOX: I mean, junior golf and stuff, too, or just on the Web and the PGA TOUR?  Three.  Well, two on the Web, one out here.  But I've had 13 in my life.  Yeah, the last couple years I've just been holing -- yeah, it's been nuts.  It's good, though, I guess.  I'm doing something right.
Q. Considering you said that you've had 13 of them in your life, what is it about you and par-3s?  Describe your approach.
WILL WILCOX: I don't know, I've been hitting my irons terrible this year.  Yeah, I don't know.  I have no idea.  I mean, I hit it really well last year, made a hole-in-one on the Web, and then I've just been holing a lot of 7-irons and 5-irons, and that was a wedge.  For it to happen in that situation, though, obviously I'll never forget that.  Neither will my caddie, my mom, dad.  Everybody is here.  My sister gets to come out rarely and she's here, and her husband.  Yeah, it was pretty surreal.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT