WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 7, 2016
Will Wilcox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A flash interview with:   
WILL WILCOX   
 Q.  So you said you weren't hitting it great earlier this week and then something clicked for you.  Is that funny how it goes sometimes?  
WILL WILCOX: Yeah, absolutely.  You never know what you're going to get.   
With my game, it can be loose but it can also be -- I mean, last year my stats were great, but this year it's just been really frustrating.  I have been trying so hard -- I have been searching for about a month now.  Right before the new year I just started hitting it terrible.  I couldn't figure out why.   
Then Saturday morning on the range, I spent like a ridiculous amount of time warming up and just started striking it.  I figured out that my hips were open.  Got the hips squared up and it just fell into place.   
 Q.  You're a self-taught player.  Some guys have their coach.  For you, when something clicks, is that your process of how you get to finding...  
WILL WILCOX: Yeah, sometimes it takes a couple days, sometimes it takes a couple weeks.  This time it took a whole month to figure out what the heck I was doing.   
It's a huge relief, because when you pour your heart and soul into something -- you know, I worked hard in the offseason, too.  That's what was frustrating.  I mean, I practiced.  It's not like I sat around or anything.   
Then I go down to Hawaii on a course that I love and played terrible.  Played terrible in the desert.  Now in front of this many people to do this good is just awesome.   
 Q.  The confidence you get not only from that but from playing well on a golf course you haven't played before, how big is that going forward?  
WILL WILCOX: It's huge.  I just really -- you know, being out here is my dream and I just want to keep my card every year and just -- it's a huge steppingstone because it's only February, early February.  So it's like just such a cool feeling to have done something like this early in the year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT