CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2007
Jade Polonich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Up-and-down week for you, pretty disappointing, but how would you describe the whole week as a whole? 
 JADE POLONICH:  You know what, I'm not disappointed at all.  This has been a fantastic journey.  I'm sad to see it end.  I wanted this to be slow motion all week.  Obviously I would have liked to have played better, but there were so many highs this week, so many emotions, I'm just thrilled to be a part of it. 

 Q.  What do you think about the fan support you got? 
 JADE POLONICH:  I can't even describe it.  Edmonton has been phenomenal.  The Country Club has been behind me all the way, the volunteers are awesome and my family and friends that drove in, I can't describe the feeling. 

 Q.  I know you're focused on your game, but do you use this as a measuring stick, too, to see how you measure up to some of the LPGA players? 
 JADE POLONICH:  Definitely a measuring stick.  All emotions aside and everything else, it's kind of tough to tell.  I was thrown into this situation pretty quick.  There's definitely things I'm going to take from this that I did well and I'm pleased with, and others are a learning experience. 

 Q.  Do you say I have the game, I just need a little more experience, I need a little more work on my emotions and that sort of thing when it comes to this game? 
 JADE POLONICH:  I think so, yeah.  I think it's close.  It's there, it's just minimizing those mistakes. 

 Q.  How were the nerves?  When you go out there on the first tee shot at a tournament and everybody is watching, were you able to handle it pretty well? 
 JADE POLONICH:  I think today was a little bit better.  You know, second round out there, it's a tough thing.  I've never experienced it, and there's no really good way to prepare for what I've dealt with this week.  All in all, I'm just pleased to be a part of this. 

 Q.  Does it make you feel like you're a better player now? 
 JADE POLONICH:  Oh, absolutely, for sure. 

 Q.  On the first tee they announced your name, and you could almost see your club just do a little quiver there, and that had to be pretty emotional. 
 JADE POLONICH:  It was unbelievable.  I was not sure if I should cry or -- I just wanted to puke in the bushes, and I didn't know what to do.  All I knew is I had to take the club back somehow, and it just wouldn't go.  I was pretty happy to make contact, and I ended up hitting a pretty good drive on No. 1 yesterday. 

 Q.  Now, I met you several years ago at Wolf Creek.  When we talk about junior golf now, it seems to be the same girls playing the same tournaments every year.  What do you suggest to help grow junior golf in this province? 
 JADE POLONICH:  You know, I've been asked this question six or seven times this week, and I think there needs to be more of a push from the clubs, more junior programs from the private clubs, the public clubs, and to make it more of a fun atmosphere instead of being always competitive.  I think it's something that -- it's a lifetime skill, but you meet great people, and lots of stuff you learn in golf you take into the real world, and I think there has to be a definite push for that. 

 Q.  And then when you were playing yourself, you had that little group going, but there were other girls coming into those tournaments.  I guess how do you encourage them to get involved at such a young age? 
 JADE POLONICH:  Well, I think a great way to look at that or answer that question is that Adrienne White and Nicole Forshner, Meaghan Le Blanc, all these girls, we're all very good friends still, 10, 15 years later, and that's -- I mean, that's lifetime skills.  You don't make friends like that in school.  Everybody goes their separate ways.  But you always have that bond.  To play sports, I think that really connects you. 

 Q.  Just quickly, playing in what is basically the national championship for your profession, how does that feel? 
 JADE POLONICH:  Unreal.  I can't even describe it.  I've got so much going on this week, but it's been just an awesome journey, and I hope it continues. 

 Q.  The pressure of the qualifier compared to the pressure on the first tee shot of this tournament, about the same, or where was that on the scale? 
 JADE POLONICH:  You know, totally different.  Qualifier I went out there going, I have nothing to lose, let's just go out and play.  Out here, again, I didn't have anything to lose, but it's still just that atmosphere that you didn't have, and there's no way to prepare you for this. 

 Q.  This was a blast for you, right? 
 JADE POLONICH:  Absolute blast. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT