CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2007
Jade Polonich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk about all the different emotions you went through today.   
 JADE POLONICH:  A million.  I'm so overwhelmed right now I don't even know where to start.  I'm sort of speechless.  But definitely all sorts of new feelings that I never would have -- I don't know if I expected it, but just had no way to prepare for it.  Pretty exciting day for me.   
  
  Q.  What was the most nerve-wracking moment for you?   
 JADE POLONICH:  First tee, oh, my God.  I feel like I could tackle anything now that I got that under my belt.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 JADE POLONICH:  I felt like my heart was going to jump out of my shirt.  I felt so much support, so much love from all the people, volunteers, everybody was just fantastic today, so I just really want to give a shout out to everybody who's behind me and supporting me.  It really meant a lot and I really felt the support out there.   
  
  Q.  How many people do you think there were?   
 JADE POLONICH:  Oh, I don't know.  It felt like 7 million.   
  
  Q.  Every golfer has like a pre-shot routine that you try and go through and clear your head.  Was that a little difficult for you to concentrate on each shot because you probably had so many things running through your mind, or how did you manage to approach each shot?   
 JADE POLONICH:  I felt like the day went so fast.  I don't know, I just tried to breathe, I tried to stay calm.  You know, tried to do all the right things, and golf is a silly game.  I don't know, I tried my best.   
  
  Q.  Did you talk to people as you went along or did you try to just have tunnel vision?   
 JADE POLONICH:  I tried to.  The first few holes I tried to just kind of stay to myself and have that tunnel vision, and then once I calmed down a little bit I started to relax and talk to a few more people and just kind of be aware of what my surroundings are and what an amazing experience this is.   
  
  Q.  Soak it in?   
 JADE POLONICH:  Absolutely.   
  
  Q.  Did you give Goldy a call?   
 JADE POLONICH:  No, I didn't.  I was downstairs gathering my thoughts.   
  
  Q.  What would he say about this round?   
 JADE POLONICH:  You would have to ask him but I'm sure he's pretty proud of me.   
  
  Q.  How hard was it just to play golf, qualifying, it's the hometown, just how hard was it to play?   
 JADE POLONICH:  Playing is not the hard part, it's just being out here and trying to savor every single moment is what I want to take from this.  Just try to learn some new things.   
  
  Q.  You've got kind of that -- do you think tomorrow you'll just be a little bit more relaxed?  It might be probably hard to sleep tonight, but is tomorrow going to be a lot easier?   
 JADE POLONICH:  I don't know if it'll be easier, but I definitely kind of know what to expect now and to be expecting these emotions.  Hopefully I can find my way.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 JADE POLONICH:  I did.  I think the Country Club did that for me and had them out here today, so that was really nice of them.   
  
  Q.  The bogey on the 1st hole, did that have an impact?  Did that set you back or did that matter at all?   
 JADE POLONICH:  No, it didn't.  I mean, I was thrilled with my tee shot.  I hit a great tee shot there, and my -- I was so tense over that second shot, so I was happy to get away from there with a bogey.  I don't know, just happy to make contact actually.   
  
  Q.  What was the best ball or best shot today, the one that sticks out?   
 JADE POLONICH:  No. 1 tee, absolutely, completely one I'll never forget.   
  
  Q.  Was there any point at all today where you relaxed to the point where you thought, okay, it's just a dumb game?   
 JADE POLONICH:  There were moments of that.  I felt through the back nine, a couple on the front.  I felt pretty comfortable out there.  Obviously those new feelings were still there, but definitely I feel like it would get easier along the way.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible.)   
 JADE POLONICH:  No, they leave tomorrow, actually.   
  
  Q.  So what was it like to have them out there?   
 JADE POLONICH:  You know what, everybody is so supportive so I'm just happy that I could have some people out here behind me and some familiar faces.  That was really great.   
  
  Q.  How much conversation was there between you and your player partners about playing on Tour, playing with Annika's sister?  Did you talk to them much about things and was there much chatter or could you get some information from them or pick their brains?   
 JADE POLONICH:  No, it wasn't as chatty as -- well, I didn't think it would be.  They're both very friendly, very nice to play with.  But again, something new for me is that this is a business for these girls, this isn't just your Sunday round with your friends.  So that's definitely another new feeling for me, as well.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT