CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2007
Jade Polonich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Welcome to this press conference for the 2007 CN Canadian Women's Open.  We're joined by our special guest Jade Polonich.  Jade is an amateur, went through the qualifying and will make her debut, professional debut, with the CN Canadian Women's Open on the strength of a 72 in yesterday's qualifying round at the Edmonton Petroleum Club.  She's a regular on the CN Canadian Women's Tour, and she plays out of the Edmonton Country Club.  We'll begin with questions for jade.   
  
  Q.  Have you played this course much?   
 JADE POLONICH:  Twice this year, that's it.   
  
  Q.  And do you like it, don't like it?   
 JADE POLONICH:  I think it's fantastic.  It's a beautiful course.  It's in great shape, the greens are phenomenal, and what's not to like.   
  
  Q.  What happened to you after you left the golf course yesterday?  Just walk us through the rest of that day, and did you ever land?   
 JADE POLONICH:  We went straight home after that, made a million phone calls, received a million phone calls, grabbed a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, laid down for half an hour, came out here, played nine.   
  
  Q.  I know you've been disappointed for a long time.  Just how does it feel to be here, and how excited are you?   
 JADE POLONICH:  I'm thrilled.  I'm thrilled to be a part of it.  You know, it's exciting to be inside the ropes instead of watching from the outside.  But I don't know if I'll come down from this high.  This is just awesome.  I'm so excited to be a part of all this.   
  
  Q.  Just a follow-up, what's your goal for the week?   
 JADE POLONICH:  You know, I want to go out here and enjoy every moment.  I'm not going to beat myself up.  I just think that if I come out here and focus on one swing and each swing just through the whole round and really enjoy every moment, I'll be a happy camper.   
  
  Q.  Can you just talk about I guess your round yesterday and at what point did you think you were getting closer and closer, and was there a time where you thought, wow, I'm going to qualify for this event?   
 JADE POLONICH:  Yesterday was -- you know, it's a grind.  Golf is a grind all the time.  But I teed off in the morning and I just -- I said to my mom who was caddying, I said I am not the least bit worried, just go out and play, try and stay in the moment, not get ahead of myself.  I didn't think too much about the outcome, and when I got in and heard there were a couple of 71s, there might have been a chance.  So I was pretty thrilled at that time.   
  
  Q.  Did you play today?   
 JADE POLONICH:  I did, I just finished.   
  
  Q.  And how did you do?   
 JADE POLONICH:  I had a fun day.  I played with Jeanette, a young girl also that plays on the Canadian Tour.  It was good.  I was more relaxed than I thought I was.  It was fairly calm out there.  It was nice to play with Jeanette and have that little hometown feeling and gave me some good targets.  I know she's been going through the same sort of feelings and emotions for the last couple months.  So it was a fun day.   
  
  Q.  Will your parents be around tomorrow?   
 JADE POLONICH:  Yeah, my mom is caddying for me, and my sister is probably going to come in tonight from Calgary, and I think my dad will come up on Thursday.   
  
  Q.  How are you going to feel if you get paired up with a No. 1 girl in the world or someone like that that you admire so much?   
 JADE POLONICH:  I'll probably pee my pants (laughter), and then just try to enjoy it and learn and soak it all in.  I think that's part of the whole experience.   
  
  Q.  Does this kind of motivate you to keep going and keep playing and trying to get onto the LPGA Tour and just kind of make it all worthwhile, all the grinding it out?  Does it make it all worthwhile?   
 JADE POLONICH:  Definitely.  Days like today, coming out here, yeah, it makes it worthwhile.  It just kind of validates what you work for all year, and for it to -- to end the season like this or come down to this is a really great feeling.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Jade.  Fantastic early start to the week, and we wish you best of luck the rest at the week at the CN Canadian Women's Open.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT