UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
Tre' Newton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Did your father play in a Super Bowl?
 TRE ’ NEWTON: He did. I don't know. I was young. I think it was the Buffalo Bills at their place. Yeah, the first one.

 Q. You don't remember that? 
 TRE ’ NEWTON: No, not too much. I was 4 years old, so.

 Q. And 14 years later, 15 years later you're playing for a national title? 
 TRE ’ NEWTON: No, I mean, I'm really excited about this. The whole team, everybody has worked hard to get here. So we're really excited to play. 

 Q. You look at the other running back on the other side and prepared to see where you're at and he's at right now? 
 TRE ’ NEWTON: He's a great running back. He's run a bunch of awards and everything, and the Heisman of course. He's a great running back, but. No I just listen to Coach Applewhite and try to work on on the things he tells me I need to work on just to improve every day during the practices that we have until the game comes.

 Q. Has he mentioned all his time at Alabama and what he went through there? 
 TRE ’ NEWTON: No, not really. He pretty much just thinks it's a running back group and what we can do to help our team and help our offense get better. He's mentioned Coach Saban's a great coach, but that's about it.

 Q. What can you do specifically at running back? 
 TRE ’ NEWTON: First of all, we're going to need to watch film when we get back from the break and try to focus in on Alabama a little bit more. Just execute our assignments. Execute the game plan. Try to get our pick-ups right. Read the tackles and everybody running the run game. Just execute our game plan.

 Q. What about the younger guys? Can you imagine what it's going to feel like being in that game? 
 TRE ’ NEWTON: I'm sure it's going to be a great atmosphere. Right now I'm not really showing any nerves, you know, just trying to get through these bowl practices, you know. But I'm sure once I get out there, I'll start feeling it a little bit more. But I'll be more excited than nervous?

 Q. What kind of player is Greg Muckelroy? You played in high school with him, right? 
 TRE ’ NEWTON: Right.

 Q. What kind of player was he? 
 TRE ’ NEWTON: Back in high school, he was a senior. I was just a sophomore. So he was a great leader, you know. That was my first year starting, and he had waited behind chase. So he was a great leader. I mean, he brought us to a state championship, so he did a great job in high school. 

 Q. Is there anything about him -- you mentioned leadership -- but that you would have seen four years later as a quarterback of the No. 1 team in the country. Is there anything you could see from him back then? 
 TRE ’ NEWTON: He was a hard worker back in high school. He always listened to what coach told him to do. So I'm not surprise at his success. 

 Q. During that State game what was it that separated you against going back to high school? 
 TRE ’ NEWTON: I know he was but I don't remember too much. It was a while back. 

 Q. How has the preparation been so far? Do you like the fact that you're starting off with the fundamentals? Then you're going to watch the tape and do more preparation for preparation, getting back to fundamentals? 
 TRE ’ NEWTON: I like how we've gone back to the fundamentals, you know. Little things make you successful. You've got to go back to get the little things right. This is a great time for all of us. It's been pretty physical. And I think it's going to help us, you know, come game time because it's a lot of time between now and the game. 

 Q. Duff a favorite Christmas present growing up? 
 TRE ’ NEWTON: Favorite Christmas present. When I was little, this is kind of embarrassing, but I used to play with these little action footballs. I don't know if you remember them. But they had the star players in the NFL. 
 And one Christmas my parents designed this little field this little Cowboy Stadium football field so I could play with my action men. And that was probably my best Christmas present.









END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT