84 LUMBER CLASSIC
September 14, 2006
Greg Kraft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAURY LIVSEY:  We'd like to welcome Greg Kraft into the interview room after a first round 66.  You're coming off of three missed cuts, so this is a nice start to the tournament.
GREG KRAFT:  Yeah, I finally putted well and had one chip in and I made two long putts, a 30 footer and a 35 footer.
LAURY LIVSEY:  What holes?
GREG KRAFT:  16, the par 5, I spun a sand wedge back down the hill and made a 30 footer, and on No. 4 I made another 35 footer, as well.

My other birdies on 13, I was just off the back of the green about 15 feet, chipped it in.

No. 3, the par 3, I hit a good 3 iron to about five feet.

The other par 5, I hit a sand wedge to about six feet.

And No. 8, I two putted from the front fringe for birdie.

The biggest key to my round today was you're going to miss some shots out there; it's windy, it's cold and it's wet.  Every time I missed it, I was in a place where I could play it, versus chipping out, bad lie.  Around the greens was a lot of shaved areas, so I hit a few fringes around the greens but I could putt from off the green.  But the tee shot was pretty much in play all day, and when I did miss the fairway, I had a lie that I could work with.
Q.  How long was it playing?
GREG KRAFT:  It was playing pretty long.
Q.  Did they give you a break on the tees at all?
GREG KRAFT:  They gave us a break on No. 2, which we didn't need, because it was kind of a helping wind.  No. 9, I think they had us on one tee forward which was maybe 10 yards, 12 yards.  So there was a couple holes with a break, but not many.

Probably the best hole out there was probably 15.  When I went through there it was straight into the wind and it was all the way back on that hole.  Your ball is basically plugging.  I can't see them playing it down tomorrow.  Even my last hole on 9, I hit a perfect drive and I had more mud on my ball than I've ever seen.

When you get a little sun with a little wind, by the time it gets to your ball, it starts drying and that's the worst because it doesn't come off when you hit it.  It'll be interesting to see what they do the next couple days.
Q.  Is this the first year that you've played this course?
GREG KRAFT:  This is the first year I've played here, yes.
Q.  What do you think about this being the last year?
GREG KRAFT:  I'm not real happy.  I made sure I came    the first year they had the event is when I got sick, and then I didn't play for three years trying to get healthy.  I'm glad I was able to make it this time, and hopefully in the future we'll be back.  I know the players don't want to leave, and from what I can tell, I don't think that the community and the golf course, they want us to be here, so hopefully we'll get it ironed out and we'll be back.
LAURY LIVSEY:  You won in Pennsylvania on the Nationwide Tour last year.
GREG KRAFT:  Last time I was in Pennsylvania I won on the Nationwide Tour.  I might have to move here.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Greg, thanks for coming in.  Appreciate it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT