GENUITY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 28, 2002
Greg Kraft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOAN V.T. ALEXANDER:  We'd like to thank Greg Kraft for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center.  Bogey-free round out there today.  You played late in the day.  Why don't you just talk about the conditions and how you played; then we'll go into some questions.
GREG KRAFT: Basically got lucky on the draw, I think lack of wind in the afternoon in South Florida is a rarity.  Be surprised if it doesn't blow some tomorrow afternoon.  So I think I got the best of it so far unless  it is 20 tonight.  I do not think it is going to be that cold.  Took advantage of a pretty calm afternoon which is very rare.  And also to go without a bogey.

Q.   It came up outside, if we didn't bring it up, would you even remember 18 here a few years ago?
GREG KRAFT: Oh, yeah.

Q.   Or do you remember -- I mean is it hard to forget what happened?
GREG KRAFT: I don't want to forget it.  I mean, I was there.  There's not many people that were there, so it's more of a positive for me than anything.  It makes me work harder to erase it.  What a better sweeter time to be able to do it this week.  It really doesn't bother me.  Doesn't bother me talking about it and doesn't bother me watching it.  No biggy. 

Q.   This course you take away more positives having played well here  --
GREG KRAFT:  Absolutely.  It was difficult at the time.  I mean, when I did it, it was tough.  I was proud that I got it up-and-down after I did it to finish second.  That kind of made me feel good but it didn't affect the way I felt.  But it took  -- it took a couple of days for me to kind of get over it and then move on.  It's actually helped me.  I played great later in the year.  I had a chance to win at Colonial, shot 61 on Saturday and come down the stretch there, I use that as motivation, hit some pretty good shots.  Only bogey I made down the stretch was a club that I hit too hard and it went too far.  I guess I was just overpumped up, so I am using that to kind of motivate me more than bring me down.

Q.   First-time winners breaking through here, you find  that encouraging, inspiring?
GREG KRAFT: I don't really watch it.  I won Deposit when it was unofficial.  It was a four-day tournament.  I had the lead for three days and won that.  So in my mind I beat who I had to beat, so I still feel like I won even though they gave me the money as a win but didn't count it as an official win but I knew -- I am not crying sour grapes at all, but I don't  -- I really don't pay much attention to that.  I just work hard, just try to get the last nine holes trying to get there.  I had a chance last week, so I mean, that's all I can try to do, see if -- maybe I will hit it in the water again; maybe I won't but I need to get there first to see what will happen.

Q.   Could you explain again what happened with the 3-wood, did it break?
GREG KRAFT: No, it just came loose.  I hit a shot, my second shot on the par 5 and I went to go put it away, I noticed that the little black ferrell was separated from the head.  Usually sometimes ferrells come loose, the ferrell won't budge, I held the head, twisted the grip, and the shaft came off.  I called an official.  He took it in,  had it reglued, brought it back, you know, 15 minutes later.  I had it back and then used it twice on the way in. 

Q.   Do you get good vibes here?  Does this course set up well for you?
GREG KRAFT:  Being a Florida guy, you know, living in Clearwater playing Bermuda grass, I feel comfortable in A, this grass which is bermuda which drives a lot of guys fits and I like the wind because I am used to playing in it.  So I feel comfortable in that environment just like in Hawaii, windy and Bermuda.  I am not a poa annua lover like San Diego or those courses at all. 

Q.   Do you feel like you got the course in its most  -- (inaudible)
GREG KRAFT: I think we got lucky, afternoon round without wind is rare. Usually about 11 o'clock it starts picking up.

Q.   Plus if you like the Bermuda getting back here after the West Coast it feels like (inaudible)--
GREG KRAFT: It is nice.  It -- actually if you hit a good putt you think you could make it versus watching it bounce. 

Q.   Any trepidation about using that 3-wood after it was fixed?
GREG KRAFT: First swing was, you know, I was kind of worried, but got to hit it some time.  I needed it, so then I just went and thanked the guy and hit it a few more times on the way back to make sure.
JOAN V.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you for joining us, Greg.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT