THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 25, 2000
Greg Kraft
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 GREG KRAFT: Just started out all right is all. Didn't play particularly well
tee-to-green. Putted really well. I made all the putts I was supposed to make and just
kept, you know, knowing that I wasn't really that sharp tee-to-green. I played more on the
conservative side all day, trying to just keep it in play and hopefully find it later this
afternoon and keep it where I didn't make any big mistakes on some of the tough holes. And
tried to birdie the par 5s and shorter holes, which I did. First par 5, I birdied number
5. Hit a 9-iron from the left side of the fairway to about eight feet. The other par 5, I
hit a pitching wedge to about 15 feet and made that. Bogey on 12. I was first to hit, and,
you know, it's 147. I hit 7-iron 160 -- and I had about 150 it was 147 and the wind was
blowing pretty hard on the hole before and you could feel it on the tee. So I punched a
7-iron, flew all the way in the back bunker; made bogey. Good bunker shot, good putt, but
just made bogey. Just a misjudge of the wind. If I would have been second or third to hit
in my group, it would have been a little easier shot with the distance. 14, sand wedge to
about four feet. 15, par 5, I hit it in the green-side bunker in 2. Knocked it out about 3
1/2 feet; made another birdie. And then I bogeyed the par 3 next hole. I was first to hit
again. I hit 5-iron. It landed right next to the pin, went over the green. Chipped down
about six feet and missed it. Parred the last two.  
 
Q. No. 1, what are your thoughts, again; and No. 2, if -- the greens are playing as
tough as they say if you don't get in the right position?
 
 GREG KRAFT: The greens are putting so beautifully, and there's so much grass on them,
it's amazing they really don't hold like you would think, except for your scoring clubs,
like your sand wedge, pitching wedge, 9-iron. You have to hit a really good shot. And I
mean, I like it that way. For instance, 18, middle of the fairway, I had a pretty vanilla
shot. It was 165 yards and it was just a normal 7-iron. I knew the greens are hard. If you
hit it short it spins off or if it's pin-high, it bounces over, like my playing partner.
So I took a 7-iron and I cut it back against the wind to actually add more spin to my
shot, so it would stop. And you know, you have to be a little creative because they are
firm. But the nice thing is they are putting just unbelievable. They are perfect.  
 
Q. You looked like you backed off of your approach shot on 18 about three or four
times. Is that typical because of the wind?
 
 GREG KRAFT: The first time there was a bug that landed on my ball, and the second time
it felt like the wind changed a little bit, and the last time is when I decided to -- I
said, "I'm just going to go ahead and slice it back against the wind and try to put
more spin on it." The first time I was probably going to take something off of it,
hit it a little easier and I just said, "I'm going to aim left of the pin, cut it
against the wind, make sure it stops and get out of here with 2-under." Ended up
being pretty close, actually. I figured it would blow more left once it got up there and
maybe roll left, but it ended up pretty close. I was just trying to hit the shot that
would stay on the green.  
 
Q. With the changes this year and the conditions, is this course playing noticeably
tougher than in past years?
 
 GREG KRAFT: The holes that they made the significant changes are -- I mean, number --
is it 6, the par 4 is 450? It played into the wind this morning. It was driver, 3-iron and
that green is pitched and like a rock. I flew it right, pin-high, went all the way over
the green. And the green was pitched back to front severely, and my chip I just got on the
green and rolled all the way down past the hole about five feet and made it. But that hole
was playing all you want this morning into the wind.  
 
Q. You've been having a pretty good year, but did you come in here playing this good? 
 
 GREG KRAFT: Last week, tee-to-green was probably the best I've ever played in my 9
years on TOUR. I hit it just awesome. And just didn't get the most out of my putter. I
finished 6th, but it was a -- Saturday, I shot 1-over and missed 10 putts inside of 15
feet; so I knew that I'm close to playing well. I spent a lot of time beginning of this
week working on my putting. And traveling -- I got here late Tuesday, so my long game is
suffering a little bit. I might be a little tired or whatever, but my timing just wasn't
there. But the good news is my putter was, so the time that I put in to go fix it helped.
It's just nice to be in like a -- you know, when you're playing good, you're kind of
expecting good things to happen. Your marginal shots are coming out okay. And when it
seems like you are between clubs, like on 18, the wind turned around I tried to cut a shot
in there. When you're playing well, those shots seem clear to you and you always seem to
pick the right one. When you're not playing well, every decision you make or your marginal
shot always turns out to be a hard one and you hit a bad bounce. I think my attitude is
really good right now and it's fresh and I'm excited play, and that helps. 
 
Q. Can you see anybody shooting really low on this course or how low could they go?
 
 GREG KRAFT: Yeah, I think -- everybody always shoots something, you know. Four days in
a row, probably not. You know, I don't see anybody going four days in a row. You know, the
pins were good, too. They are in some corners. Took advantage of some of the new parts of
the greens they made, like on 7. When you're out there, you just never hit that spot
before, so you're thinking, "I'm knocking it in with a sand wedge, is it going to
shoot off the green because it's downhill?" A little bit of indecision I think is
going to make -- maybe a couple days for people to get more comfortable with it. But it's
just -- with the length and the firm greens, sooner or later, it's going to catch up to
you out there. You're going to hit a pretty good shot and it's going to turn out not so
good. I really feel for my playing partner. He played great today, and hit one poor shot
the last two holes and walked away 1-over; and he was 3-under starting at 17. He played
flawless all day, and he -- he hit one poor shot and ended up -- 18, he hit all good shots
and made double. So that's out there. You know it's out there. So you've just got to be
patient.  
 
Q. What was the bad shot at 17 he hit? 
 
 GREG KRAFT: He hit a 3-wood off the right. He had a chip out, and then he hit his third
shot long, right. Hit the green pin-high, released all the way to the back of the green
and he 3-putted. 
 
Q. I know you're into the fitness thing. Just wondering how long ago you made that kind
of commitment and how much it's helped your game? 
 
 GREG KRAFT: It was '97. My shoulder was hurt so bad. I was playing by -- with Advil. I
went and saw Joe and Dr. Yocum (ph) in L.A., and their diagnosis was it was loose, cut
very loose and I needed to work out. They gave me a routine. I did it. It kind of went
away; it would never go away. A couple good friends of mine back home thought surgery was
needed. A couple of my good friends are coaches with the Yankees. They train in Tampa.
They had me go see their trainer, and he said he could fix it. He said it will take a
commitment. I said, "I'm ready to do anything." I kind of got into it in the
off-season after '97,'98, and really hard in '98 and attacked it; worked Monday Wednesday,
Friday from 6:0 to 9:00 every morning and worked on everything. And then I got into how
great I felt that I just had -- I've been doing it ever since. Even during the off-season
I go train with him. Same routine. I've got to get in early before all the ballplayers and
everybody else gets in there because it gets pretty busy. If I get in early enough, it's
hard. And you know, what's funny is a good friend of mine, John Huston, had the same
problem in his shoulder; thought he was going to have to get cut on. I said, "Do me a
favor, go see this guy. What the heck, you never know." And in 30 days, his shoulder
has not bothered him since, and that was in November. 
 
Q. What is his name?
 
 GREG KRAFT: Larry Mayol. He was with the Mets for seven years, did Olympics. He was
with the Olympics one stint, United Tennis Center, Davis Cup.  
 
Q. Which shoulder? 
 
 GREG KRAFT: It was my left one.  
 
Q. You say you have friends who are coaches with the Yankees?
 
 GREG KRAFT: Billy Connors and Larry Mayol (ph). He came up to make a special, I guess,
trip to see Columbus. Isn't that strange, the week of the Memorial? (Laughter.) 
 
Q. Quite a coincidence?
 
 GREG KRAFT: Yeah.  
 
Q. This exercise program, is it mostly weight or aerobics? 
 
 GREG KRAFT: It's everything. It is stuff that you could not imagine. He actually gives
me a routine that I take on the road with me that I can do my hotel room. I do bands. He
had exercises with rice and these tubes, and I had to take them and spin it, and the burn
deep inside your cuff was phenomenal. And then the other thing about it was the stretching
and he was able to do, what they call "milking out the muscle." When you get
knots, he would go underneath there and milk out the knot in the muscle. It was tough,
painful, but it was worth it. I have not had a problem since.  
 
Q. These the same things he does with baseball players?
 
 GREG KRAFT: Exactly. If I was -- if I had a knee injury, I would probably go see a
football doctor. But, you know anything with the arm and shoulder -- and it's helped. You
see the commitment. You know, Doc Gooden was in there, Gary Sheffield, early in the
off-season. They live there full time, and they talk about, you know, working out is going
to help you more mentally than it is probably physically, just going through it. And
nobody likes to do it. I don't know anybody that likes to did it. They are crazy if they
do. David says he likes it. He can't like it. It's not fun.  
 
Q. You said it helps you mentally, just knowing that you're healthy and having the
confidence?
 
 GREG KRAFT: Just the discipline to get up at 5:30 in your off-season and go to a gym
for three hours. I'm better off probably getting up and doing it, because the only thing
I'm cutting into is my sleep. I would never be able to make it at 6:00 in the afternoon.
Something is always coming up. But as a discipline, I like to sleep as much as anybody,
but getting up at 5:30, three days a week to go in there, that's tough.  
 
Q. Now, what months do you do this or have you done it? 
 
 GREG KRAFT: October, November, December and first half of January.  
 
Q. Once the season begins, what kind of program?
 
 GREG KRAFT: I go four days, but it's only an hour at a time. Monday, Tuesday, Thursday,
Friday.  
 
Q. How much was that injury limiting you golf-wise? 
 
 GREG KRAFT: I don't know. It bothered me. It was always sore, swollen. My swing had a
lot to do with the injury. It wasn't until I fixed that as well. But the way I was
swinging, it caused the injury, caused the stretching of the muscle, which made it loose.
So it's amazing how much things are actually golf-related and baseball-related, how they
tie in, batter's swings, arms and chest together, same as in golf.  
 
Q. You had a real close call at Doral a year ago, and you know, guys say, "Well,
I'm going to learn something from this." I'm just wondering in hindsight, is there
anything that you took from that that you think can help you next time in that situation?
 
 GREG KRAFT: A lot of things. I know I can -- first off, I know I can win. I was
leading, fell back, birdied three holes out of the last six to catch and get back in the
lead and I -- I just -- you know, it was probably too impatient at the time. I could have
-- you know, I didn't have to make birdie on that hole to win that tournament. There was a
lot of holes -- I could have just played it safe and hit a safer club instead of a club
that had to be perfect. I didn't have to birdie the last hole to win. I should have just
been -- I had the whole world to the right. I had a lot of things that I could have done,
but I'm taking a club I had to hit perfect, to hit the club and clear the water; and I hit
it heavy and it was an awful shot. I know I can do it. Same thing at Colonial. I had the
lead there. I know I'm close. I know it's happening. Just got to keep getting there.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT