NCAA MEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 13, 2015
Brandon Lopez
Jim Morris
Andrew Suarez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Florida 15 - Miami 3   
THE MODERATOR: Joining us from Miami, head coach Jim Morris, shortstop Brandon Lopez and starting pitcher Andrew Suarez.  Coach, an opening statement.   COACH MORRIS: It's a disappointing game.  The fourth inning says everything about the game.  Everything that could go wrong went wrong. Made the error and probably an unnecessary throw.  Made the second error.  We missed some cut-off guys all in one inning and missed a fly ball in left field.  A lot of things happened.  Walked a couple guys.  Whatever could happen happened wrong in that particular inning.  That's 10 runs, that's very difficult to come back from. That was for us the bottom line of the game.  Beforehand I mentioned you give Florida an opportunity to put guys on base and they get after you.  And that's exactly what happened.  We gave them too many opportunities, and when you give them those opportunities they go after it and get it done.  And they did that tonight.   THE MODERATOR: Questions.   Q.  Andrew, that inning obviously it got away from you guys there.  But with the exception of that double off the wall which I think was after you were out of the game, seemed like all those hits were not hit very hard.  They were just ground balls that found a hole and dropped in the outfield.  Talk about that frustration because it didn't feel like they were hitting you hard but the runs kept on coming?  ANDREW SUAREZ: I just fell behind the count and they got hits, they found the holes.  But there's nothing I could do about that.   Q.  Coach and Andrew, what was the explanation for the balk in the third inning and did that have any effect on you, Andrew, as far as confidence or getting you out of rhythm?  COACH MORRIS: Probably he didn't stop, that's the bottom line.  So he needs to answer the rest of the question.  I thought that was a turning point.  We were up 2-0.  One of the things.  But we mentioned you gotta stop, I'm sure.   ANDREW SUAREZ: I was working too quick.  And I forgot to stop.  But I didn't think it changed anything.   Q.  Coach and Brandon, as tough as that was tonight is a game like that easier to flush than a walk-off loss?  How do you guys think you'll bounce back against Arkansas?  COACH MORRIS: We've got to bounce back, a game like this is never much fun.  And we just gotta pass one loss, and teams have come back and won from being down one game.  So when we're out here in the World Series that happens.  But we've got to be ready to play, and you get days off and you've got to recoup and look at it as your O-1 and come back and play the next game which will be in two days.   BRANDON LOPEZ: The game's over, pretty much, and we just have to come out strong for Arkansas.   Q.  Coach, what is it that you know about the Razorback program.  I know this game just ended but overall what do you know about them and thinking about facing them?  COACH MORRIS: I just know they've got a good program and great facility, great fans.  And they played hard.  They've had a really good year, and I watched them play on TV one time today, part of that game.  I don't know a lot about them.  I have no idea who they're pitching.  That's something we've got to decide, too.   Q.  Brandon, that fourth inning, tell me about what it was like just standing out there, the thought of is this ever going to end, can we ever get the three outs in this thing?  BRANDON LOPEZ: It was a long inning.  I was just trying to get out of the inning after what happened.  And I just had to put that inning behind me and keep the game going.   Q.  Brandon, you're just trying to make a play there.  Just your thought on the error, just trying to make a play there, get the ball to first?  BRANDON LOPEZ: I definitely shouldn't have thrown that.  I had no play.  The ball skipped out of me.  My adrenalin I threw to first and I shouldn't have thrown it.   Q.  Jim, you knew they were tough in the middle of the lineup, but how disheartening was it to see the bottom of Florida's lineup particularly produce and come up with the number of hits they did?  COACH MORRIS: I mean, we said from 1 through 9 they were good.  I never just thought the middle of the line was good.  Their whole line-up's been very productive.  They've got a very solid club.  So we knew 1 through 9 they were going to have come after you.  And I said if you give them opportunities they'll take advantage of it.  They've done a great job of that.   THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT