ATLANTIC 10 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 14, 2013
Brad Bedford
Chris Mack
Travis Taylor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH MACK:   It was a tough way to lose.   I give St. Joe's credit, they made two more free throws than we did.   I think we look at the stat sheet, the game is pretty identical in almost every statistical category.   They made two free throws at the end, the difference in the game. 
I've really enjoyed coaching this group.   I don't know if our work is complete yet in terms of postseason tournaments.   But it's a bitter pill to swallow when you bow out early in a conference tournament, especially in the manner that we did. 

Q.   Brad, you were kind of kneeling there at the end with your head down at the final buzzer, kind of what was drawn up there in the last play and what was going through your mind after the last shot popped out? 
BRAD REDFORD:   I was just supposed to set a back screen for Trav and J‑Mar.   The pass went on a little bit too high, kind of hit the backboard.   We were kind of lucky to be in that position and get that shot.   It's disappointing when you lose at the end of the year.   I've enjoyed being around this group of guys, and playing with them, and you know, I wish we had the chance to keep playing and go on tomorrow.   So just disappointed. 

Q.   Travis, you said one of the keys was attacking more; can you talk about how you did in that capacity and for yourself coming off the Butler game? 
TRAVIS TAYLOR:   Just attacking the rim, being more physical in the paint(inaudible) they have a lot of athletes, so it's easy to get shot blocks‑‑ (audio distortion).   

Q.   Can you talk about the toughness of walking off the court? 
TRAVIS TAYLOR:   It's very tough, especially losing it like that, like Coach said, bowing out early in a conference tournament.   Just especially off a missed shot like that.   Of course that's not the total play, of course a lot of plays throughout the whole game could have won us the game, but a shot like that that barely miss. 

Q.   How did you feel after that last shot? 
TRAVIS TAYLOR:   It's just tough‑‑ I'll talk to them about it. 

Q.   Can you talk about what Brad did in the last play and what you had drawn up and what you wanted to do?
COACH MACK:   You're not quite sure, especially when you have no time‑outs left.   You're never quite sure if they are going to come out and resume the floor or go man‑to‑man. 
But in either case, we wanted to throw the ball to the rim.   Brad being such a phenomenal shooter, we felt like they would be glued to him, he's a good backswing‑‑ as Brad talked about the pass from Justin got a little bit too much air under it and hit the backboard. 
You know, that's one of the advantages, when you throw the length of the floor, that you have an opportunity, almost like a fumble in football, whoever can come up with it.   We knew we had some guys that could make the play based on the spacing we put them on the floor, but just an unlucky bounce.   It's a tough play but it certainly isn't the reason we lost. 

Q.   Can you talk about the foul with 24 seconds left? 
COACH MACK:   They got the switch they wanted to.   They isolated Justin at the top of the key, with some of their better players in Galloway.   It was a legitimate foul, don't have any complaints.   You know, it's the right call.   I wish we had the toughness to step in and take a charge. 
But you can't get fouled‑‑ we tried to isolate him after the first‑‑ and came back and came with the second one.   Good players do that and he's a good player. 
I thought the previous play was a little interesting.   We had a shot clock violation and I want to see that again.   Looked like it hit the rim.   Those officials worked their tails off, did a great job, but I don't know if I agree with that one.   I'm going to have to see it.   And if I don't, if it's the right call, I'll swallow it.   But I felt like it hit the rim and I knew we were getting the offensive rebound because we were getting it in our hands.

Q.   How do you feel done this year compared to the expectations you've had? 
COACH MACK:   Depends on the position.   I think our own expectations, those are the only ones that count.   We had our own expectations in the locker room preseason.   And so there are people out there that felt like we wouldn't make the conference tournament, felt like we wouldn't be in it till the end. 
We had a very tough stretch, our last five conference games‑‑ we played four Top‑25 teams.   We beat two of them.   We were completely flat against(inaudible) up until that point we felt like we were playing for the conference championship.   To do that 12, 13 games into the conference season with a group that lost all five starters, I'm proud of our kids.     Disappointed that we couldn't finish a little bit stronger tonight.   I don't know if that answers your question.

Q.   The last time you played them, they had a 12‑0 run to finish the game, and tonight when you went on a 12‑0 run you were able to come back.   I know that speaks to the resilience of the team, but can you just address that again and how they were able to come back and getting around to the final seconds? 
COACH MACK:   They are good players.   We have all‑conference type players on our team.   Good players are going to make runs. 
You know, we talked a lot in the last huddle about having been there before.   It's pretty ironic, because going into the final TV time‑out, we were up two and we didn't score the rest of the game.   And coming into this TV time‑out, we were down two, and we talked about in the huddle, hey, how much has our group grown since the last time we played them.   I thought we made some winning plays down the stretch.   Just needed a little more. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT