AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: TIGERS v RANGERS
October 12, 2011
Ron Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We're going to get started again. First question for Ron Washington. 

 Q. Wash, with your lineup today, you've got both catchers in there. Do you have to have I twice about that not having a catcher on the bench? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, it's something you do take into consideration, but I'm trying to put the best lineup out there that I possibly can that I think can help me to produce the runs. 
 And the way Torrealba swung the bat last night, I want him to get an opportunity to go out there today and hopefully he can be a good weapon. So I had Napoli DH-ing last night, so I just switched it. 

 Q. Wash, you said last night that you were not going to take Michael Young out of the four spot. But I wonder at what point does it maybe become beneficial to switch it up for a player to move him around to try to get him out of a funk and your thought about putting him back there in the clean-up so the for today's game? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Michael has done a great job for us there, simply because he hits a spell where things aren't going well, for me to -- this is my feelings -- to make that type of change would be panic. 
 I'm not panicking, because my guy is not panicking. We are talking about Michael Young. Seven years of 200 hits. He knows how to make an adjustment. And at some point he will. 
 I've always been consistent with my lineup, and I will continue to be consistent with my lineup. And I trust my guys. Today could be the day that Michael Young stop all this talk about him hitting in the fourth slot and hitting .111 or whatever it is. 

 Q. Wash, could you give us an update on Adrian Beltre and what the last I guess 12 hours has been like for him? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, I saw him today when we left the hotel. He was moving better. He said he felt better. When I arrived at the ballpark, I went into the trainer's room, and the color is back. Last night it was red. The color is back. They've done a good job of trying to get him to get the movement back in his knee right there. 
 He is a gamer. He's ready to go. And he certainly had a different look in his eyes today than he had last night after he caught that ball off his knee. So he's a gamer. 

 Q. Wash, Leyland was talking about how banged up everybody is, and really talking about how guys are warriors this time of year. What's your opinion of that? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, I think Jim is correct. I think the last thing I heard him say is we can't worry about it. We just got to go out there and play. That's where we are. 
 You have to go out there and play. You have confidence in every single one of your guys. You've won ballgames with your best players in the lineup. You've lost ballgames with your best players in the lineup. 
 And we all are in a situation where we just have to pull together and go out there and try to play the very best game that we possibly can, and I think that's what I heard Jim say. And I feel the same way. 
 I don't have all the injuries he have, but right now you can't worry about it. They've been warriors before, and they'll continue to be warriors. There's no doubt about that. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 
 RON WASHINGTON: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT