AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: TIGERS v RANGERS
October 7, 2011
Ron Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We're about to get started in the interview room. Ron Washington is here. First question for Ron. 

 Q. Ron, how are you doing? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I'm well. How are you? 

 Q. Good. Just wondering, the way you view the Tigers, what their strengths are, what you'll have to do in this series? 
 RON WASHINGTON: What we'll have to do is play very good baseball, because we're playing a very good baseball team. They can do a lot of things. They can pitch it. They can catch it. They can execute. They can hit it out of the ballpark. They're complete. 
 We certainly understand what challenge we have in front of us. When you get to this point in the season of baseball, that's the challenges that you have. 
 I'm looking forward to tomorrow and getting out there and getting back to playing baseball. 

 Q. Ron, first of all, congratulations again. How does it feel to be able -- these two series, you opened them up at home. How important is that to be back here in front of the Ranger fans? 
 RON WASHINGTON: It's extremely important. I don't think there's any fans in baseball that have proven how excited they can be and how important they can be to a ballclub as our fans have been to us this year. 
 As I said, at this point, it's all about going out there and just trying to play the very best baseball that you can, and we get an opportunity to start at home. That's where our focus is. 

 Q. Wash, how do you balance baseball still being fun at this point, but this moment being serious? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I think that's the only way I've ever viewed baseball. I think that's the way we've approached the game of baseball since I've been here. We know what's at stake, but I don't think you can go out there and start thinking about where you are as far as trying to do more than you've done to get here. 
 We know what's at stake. We know we have to go out there against a very good club and we have to definitely be at our best. And it is our intentions. 
 Other than that, we're going to react to what the game asks us to do. We got all our reports behind the scenes, just as they does. And we'll go out there and whatever the game asks us to do, we've been able to do that all year. That's what we'll do. If it means bunting, hitting and running, hitting the ball to the opposite field, squeezing, running the bases, stealing, whatever.   If the opportunity presents itself, we'll do it. That's the way I've always looked at baseball. That's the attitude my team has. 

 Q. Ron, last year was obviously the club's first time in ALCS. What have you noticed that's different maybe in the demeanor and focus of your club as opposed to last year? 
 RON WASHINGTON: The fact they've been there before. They're matter of fact right now. They committed themselves to get back to this point, and it's not easy. I don't want anybody to think that it's easy to be sitting here and having an opportunity for the second time to go back to the World Series. That's not easy at all. It takes a lot of work. It takes a lot of dedication, a lot of commitment, a lot of effort. And my club has done that. 
 They're certainly not losing the focus or losing the fact of where we are. They're matter of fact. That's all I can say about them. They're matter of fact. They're going to go out there and they're going to leave it all out there. I don't think we can predict what's going to happen, but I can predict one thing. You should see some very good baseball between two very good baseball clubs. 

 Q. Ron, what are your plans for Ogando and considering how well he pitched this season? How strongly have you considered starting him this series? 
 RON WASHINGTON: No, he's going to be in our bullpen. We'll use him according to where we think he gives us the best opportunity to continue to win the ballgame. That could be the sixth. That could be the sixth and the seventh. That could be the seventh. That could be the eighth.      
Wherever we feel like the game dictate that Ogando give us the best opportunity to get outs we need in that inning, we'll use him. He gives us the versatility. He's done a great job for us as a starter, but right now he certainly gives us a weapon out of that bullpen. That's what we'll use him as. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 
 RON WASHINGTON: Thank you, guys. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT