AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v RAYS
October 2, 2011
Ron Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Okay, we'll get started with Ron Washington. 

 Q. How do you account for Moreland's success that he's had in a brief period of time in the playoffs, this year and last year? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, he's a gamer and he never get affected by adversity. And that's just his make-up. And at this time of the year, this is the type of stage that you go into Spring Training hoping to be a part of. And we are very happy that at this time of the year he shines. 

 Q. Wash, this is a unique park. Your club was here about four weeks ago. Is that enough time that you are familiar with it, or do you need to go over extra stuff today to get used to the place? 
 RON WASHINGTON: No, we're just going to go out there and work out. We've played many games here. We have a good idea how the ballpark plays. 
 But coming back here, we're just going to go out there today and outfielders got to make sure they understand where the crevices are and get used to the lights and get used to the surface. And tomorrow is just play baseball. 

 Q. Ron, how big was it to win a game? Unusual for you guys, you think of the big boppers, Napoli hit 30 home runs in 360 at-bats, Cruz, Josh Hamilton, and didn't get the big barrage without any home runs. Mitch hits the big home run in the eighth or ninth inning when the team was already winning. How big was that for you? 
 RON WASHINGTON: It was huge. We always prided ourselves in being a group that can win ballgames in many ways. We just fortunate enough to have some guys in the lineup that can hit the ball out of the ballpark. 
 But we don't rely on the long ball to win ballgames. We can do a lot of things, and that's what the game of baseball is about, and that's the way we look at ourselves as a baseball team. 

 Q. Certainly got our attention when you picked David Price to be part of your All-Star group this year, despite the fact he hasn't beaten your squad. Can you talk about why you have such high regard for Price, despite his lack of success against you? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, when you look at him you can see he has tremendous competitive spirit. And in the game of baseball, that's what you have to have. You have to be able to deal with the adversity of what this game entails, and he does a good job at that. 
 We tremendously have a lot of respect for David Price. And we know our hands will be full tomorrow, and we just looking forward to competing against him. And that's what it's all about. He will bring his best game, and we certainly better bring ours. 

 Q. Ron, what do you see as the reasons for Lewis's success against the Rays, and not just against the Rays, but his success in last year's postseason? 
 RON WASHINGTON: You know, Colby, when he can command his fastball and he has the depth, that he can certainly get on his breaking ball. He can be tough. And when he can start moving the fastball around the zone, and his breaking ball have the depth that it carries, it makes him tough on any opponent. 
 You know, we play this team tough and this team plays us tough. You know, I don't think any one of us has run away with any ballgames, as far as the amount of games that we played against each other, it's got to be right there, if it's not right .500. 
 And we play a similar type of game. You have to pitch and you have to catch the ball, and usually the team that makes the most mistakes is the team that ends up getting it done. Except for the first game when Matt Moore just shut us down. 

 Q. Wash, go back to last year versus this year. What have you learned from that run to the World Series last year that's helped you prepare your team for this playoff? 
 RON WASHINGTON: We are aware of what it takes to get there. And we recognize that the road to get back to the World Series is a tough one. And we are aware that each day is as important as the next. You don't look ahead, you don't look behind; you just deal with what's in front of you. 
 And you have got to have great focus. We know that. And we understand the fact that pitching can stop hitting. And so when the opportunity presents itself, that you are able to throw some runs across the board in many ways, you have to be able to be ready for it. 
 And that's what we learn. We're taking nothing for granted. We know we have to go between them lines and play. And one thing my team enjoys is playing baseball. So we're looking forward to tomorrow. 

 Q. Ron, obviously in Game 1 you went with your left-handed lineup. Is that going to be the same approach tomorrow with Price going with Gentry, or have you made that decision yet? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Yes, Gentry will be in that lineup tomorrow. I'm planning on putting Moreland out there. So that will probably be the only change, Moreland. 

 Q. What is your feeling on Moreland in that lineup, with Price out there? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, give us another threat. One swing of the bat, he can make a big difference. And he's -- you know, he gives us another defensive help right there at first base. He is a natural first baseman. 
 Last year in the playoffs it didn't matter who he faced. And right now he's feeling good about himself, and I just want to give him that opportunity to continue. 

 Q. Ron, why has it been more of a factor for Napoli from your team's standpoint, offense or defense? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Both. He has been tremendous behind the plate. He blocks well, he calls an excellent game. When one of our pitchers get off track, he is able to get them back on track. Mike Scioscia taught him well, and right now we are reaping the benefit of Mike Scioscia's teaching. 
 You have to give Mike Napoli credit. He has come over into our clubhouse and fit in very well. He is a gamer. He grinds out at-bats. He can use the opposite field. He can beat you with the long ball. He can beat you with the ball underneath the defense. 
 He brings a lot, and we are very fortunate to have him. 

 Q. Wash, last night it looked like Beltre got hit near the left knee by a pitch, and also he had to make a pretty quick start-and-run to score on the wild pitch. Basically I am asking: How did he get through last night in terms of his leg? 
 RON WASHINGTON: He is fine. He got hit in the calf, but I think you saw his burst of speed when the ball got past Shoppach. No problem with the hamstring. 

 Q. Were you holding your breath there at all? 
 RON WASHINGTON: No. Right now we're playing baseball, and he read that well. And he showed a burst of speed with no hesitation. And that's what it takes on those type of plays to score. 

 Q. Wash, you and I have known each other for a long time. Are you surprised at some of the odd things you have seen in the first couple of games? Kelly Shoppach hadn't hit a bunch all season, he hits two home runs; James Shields, some wild pitches, balls in the dirt. It just seems like these two games, strange things have happened I guess.
 RON WASHINGTON: And in Kelly Shoppach's case, there are always guys in this time of the year that shows up. He's hit home runs before, so him hitting the ball out of the ballpark doesn't surprise me. No, he doesn't hit it out with regularity, but if you throw a pitch in the wrong spot, Kelly can hurt you. He hurt us. You know, as a matter of fact, the first game he was the MVP, other than Matt Moore. 
 And, you know, in Shields' case, I don't care how good you are, there will be a day that you walk out there and sometimes things just don't go right in the game of baseball. 
 I think that's what they mean when they say the game sometimes humbles you. He's -- certainly the past few times out have really stymied our lineup. 
 But yesterday I think it was our turn and we won a ballgame, and tomorrow we have to come out and be focused because we have got David Price and we have to be at our best. 

 Q. What did Beltre say to you and Kevin Harmon when you went over to see him.
 RON WASHINGTON: Don't come out here on the field checking on me, I'm fine. 
 THE MODERATOR: All right. Thanks, Wash.
 RON WASHINGTON: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT