AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v RAYS
September 30, 2011
Ron Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Okay, let's get started with Ron Washington. 

 Q. Were you surprised to hear that they are going to start Moore in Game 1? 
 RON WASHINGTON: No. We knew he was available. You know, with the way they had to fight down the stretch and the way they had to use their earlier pitchers, that we knew he would probably be one of the available guys. And so it's not a surprise. 

 Q. Wash, sticking with Moore, how do you guys go about the scouting process on him since there is not a whole lot to look at? And, also, just a second question on Gentry, just your decision to go with a rookie in left field.
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, I will take the Gentry question first. All year when we faced lefties, Gentry has been out there. This is a power lefty with good secondary stuff. And I just wanted to make sure that Gentry know that he's still going to be engaged. 
 I just went with whatever we went with all year to get us where we are, and that's why he's in there. 
 Moore, we got scouting reports on him. We looked at some film that -- when he threw against the Yankees. 
 Other than that, we just have to go out there and make him get in the strike zone and try to make his job as tough as we possibly can, that's it. 

 Q. Wash, with Michael Young, your protection, at shortstop, can you still use him at DH? Or will you strictly play him in the field? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I will use him wherever I feel I need to use him, and I will use him at DH. 

 Q. Ron, what's -- you have seen Longoria the last couple of years. What is your impression what he is doing the second half of the season as far as he is obviously on a roll here.
 RON WASHINGTON: I think if he were healthy earlier in the year, I don't know if Tampa would have had to fight as hard as they fought to get where they are. He's their guy. He's their big-time player. He's been a big-time player since he arrived at the Major League level. 
 And what he's done down the stretch, I personally am not surprised. As I say it, I think if he'd got 30 or 40 more games earlier in the year, Tampa Bay may have been here without having to fight as hard as they did to get here. 
 THE MODERATOR: Okay. Thanks, Ron.
 RON WASHINGTON: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT