MLB WINTER MEETINGS
December 6, 2010
Ron Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How was your morning, afternoon? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Been a busy morning. Afternoon, finally got me some lunch, and now I'm here with you guys.

 Q. These meetings have any different feel considering the season that you guys had and the new ownership? Do they have a different feel than they have perhaps in years past? 
 RON WASHINGTON: No, we still have the same goal to try to do the best we can to make our team better. So in that sense, no, it doesn't. We know what we have to do. We're just going to get up in there and try to do the best we can to make us better.

 Q. What is the nature of things so far? Is it just going over everybody? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, there are a lot of discussions, but there's nothing concrete been decided yet. So we feel things out. You see what fits and you move forward.

 Q. How important is it for you to get Cliff Lee back? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, I think when you talk of the caliber of pitcher that Cliff Lee is, it's quite important. But will it make or break the Texas Rangers, no, it won't. But we certainly will do the very best we can to make that happen.

 Q. Now that you can step back and look back at last season, when you guys got him, what did it do for you besides give you a really good pitcher? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, it gave us a guy to anchor the front of our rotation, a leader, a guy that's been there and done that. When you look at the results, the rest of our pitchers became better for what Cliff Lee brought there. Tremendous work ethic, gave the bullpen a break each time he took the mound. He was able to influence our young pitchers, and great pitchers, that's what they do. They make other pitchers better, and he certainly made the rest of our pitching staff elevate their game just to keep up. He was a big addition. And I have to commend Jon Daniels, and Nolan Ryan, and the Rangers organization for making that happen.

 Q. Are you optimistic that you guys will be able to get whomever for his services? 
 RON WASHINGTON: We'll put our best foot forward. I'm always optimistic. I think we'll just have to wait to see what happens. But I'll stay optimistic.

 Q. Jon Daniels walks up to you and says, Ron, Lee's going elsewhere. I don't have any trades to make. You're going to have to make do with what you've got as far as the rotation? 
 RON WASHINGTON: We'll do what we've been doing, take advantage of what we have. We don't worry about what we don't have. We just worry about what we do have, and that's what's been great about this organization to this point, and we'll continue to do that.

 Q. What would be your starting five right now if you had to break for the season? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Cliff Lee (laughing).

 Q. What you have currently in the organization?
 RON WASHINGTON: That's hard to talk about right now. I know we've got C.J. Wilson, we've got Colby Lewis, we've got Tommy Hunter. We've got Holland, Kirkman. We have some depth, although that depth is a little young, but we have some depth. 
 Right now, what month are we in? January? 

 Q. December. 
 RON WASHINGTON: Geez, I'm way ahead of myself. December 6, it is pretty tough to start talking about rotation. We don't know what we've got yet.

 Q. When such a big piece of the puzzle with Cliff does remain a question mark, how do you guys as an organization go about addressing the other needs? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Just like everyone else. Put names on the board, start pushing them around, start seeing who fits. Seeing if they can fit in the budget. Start seeing if the make-up of the player fits what we're looking for, and see what we can do. Start having some talks with people. At the end, hope that everything works out. 
 So far Jon Daniels and our group up there do a good job of making sure we put pieces together that can help the Texas Rangers.

 Q. Do you absolutely need a piece to go in front of C.J. and Colby? 
 RON WASHINGTON: We absolutely would like to have a piece.

 Q. How much have you talked to Cliff since the season ended? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I haven't talked to Cliff. I think Jon Daniels and Nolan Ryan and Chuck Greenberg, they've been doing a good job of talking with him. I don't think my talking to Cliff is going to determine what Cliff wants to do.
 I do know that he wants to come back to Texas, and we want to have him in Texas. We just have to wait to see how things work out.

 Q. You guys only had him for a short time. What gave you the impression that he liked Texas so much? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, his leadership, his work ethic, like I said, the way he influences his other teammates that was enough right there.

 Q. Are you convinced that you'll be -- is there any concern on your part that as many pieces as you guys are talking about, whether it's the different starting pitchers or the DH options or whatever. Are you at all concerned as you try and make the Cliff thing work out that other options for other holes that you need to fill may fall? 
 RON WASHINGTON: No, because the way we do things, we discuss Cliff Lee. We discuss every option that we have to look at. So there are none of our options that we have to look at that we're ignoring. No, it won't make a difference.

 Q. C.J. Wilson and Colby Lewis are guaranteed to be in your rotation next year, correct? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Correct.

 Q. Is there anybody else, Hunter, Holland, anybody else who joins them in that quote-unquote locked in category? 
 RON WASHINGTON: We've got some depth. We're going to come into spring training, and in Texas you've got to make sure you earn your way.

 Q. As far as the DH option is concerned, do you see someone like Hideki Matsui as a good fit, as an alternative to Vlad? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, I see every guy out there that has the capability of driving in runs that hasn't signed a contract an option.

 Q. Someone to balance out the lineup as well? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, we're already left-handed heavy. We won't ignore anybody that can make us better, and that includes Hideki Matsui.

 Q. Is there anyone who as far as the bullpen is concerned in trying anyone out as a starter? Are you, I guess, leaving your options open for all of those guys, Kirkman, anybody like that? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Our options are open for all the depth we have. Whoever steps up and is able to fill our need at the time, they'll have an opportunity.

 Q. How do you feel about Feliz in the rotation? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I haven't thought about Feliz in the rotation. I've thought about Feliz only gets me three outs at the end of the game. But now that's an option that will stay open also.

 Q. But you'd rather him close? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I'd rather him get me three outs at the end of the game. But if it's necessary to bring him into the starting rotation, I can tell you guys right now, we won't hesitate to do it.

 Q. Do you think Ogando would be better suited for that move? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I haven't seen enough of Ogando. All I've seen of Ogando is out of the bullpen. I can only go by what I'm told. But we know he has the ability to maybe become a starter, but it's not anything we've discussed.

 Q. How bad was his injury? 
 RON WASHINGTON: It was bad.

 Q. Will he be full strength for spring training? 
 RON WASHINGTON: He'll be full strength come spring training. Pulled a rib cage muscle, you know.

 Q. When you say you guys are a little bit left-handed heavy right now, is it your preference that your DH be right-handed? 
 RON WASHINGTON: My preference is that he can be a switch hitter (laughing).

 Q. Given there aren't many of those out there on the market, do you feel like that guy's got to be able to hit from the right side? 
 RON WASHINGTON: No. As long as he can hit, as long as he can deliver RBIs.

 Q. So you guys aren't focusing right now on the right-handed options more than the left? 
 RON WASHINGTON: We're focusing on any option that's available. He can be right-handed, left-handed, and hit with both hands.

 Q. What are your thoughts on Paul Konerko? 
 RON WASHINGTON: A winner, heck of a player.

 Q. Any chance he might be on your radar? 
 RON WASHINGTON: As I said, everyone that's out there that hasn't been signed that's able to be a run producer as Konerko is, is on the radar.

 Q. Is your intention for Mitch Moreland to play first base full-time this year? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I think that's going to depend on Mitch Moreland.

 Q. Might not depend on Paul Konerko? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Depends on Mitch Moreland.

 Q. What do you want to see from him over the winter and into spring training? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I mean, how much improvement can he make over the winter sitting at home? We'll take care of that when he comes to spring. I think all of us have areas that we can improve upon. He certainly does. I think we know that he's a grinder up there at the plate. But the game is a little deeper than just hitting. We have to tighten up some stuff defensively, tighten up some stuff decision-making-wise. And those type of things that we'll take care of as the spring begins and move forward from there.

 Q. If you get a DH, would you rather his second position be as a first baseman or as an outfielder? 
 RON WASHINGTON: It doesn't matter.

 Q. If you get a DH, would you rather that he be a little bit more versatile than maybe your situation last year? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, I'd rather get Vlad.

 Q. You would? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Yeah. We'll see what happens after that.

 Q. He's your preference for the DH spot? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Yeah. I'd rather have Vlad. He did a great job for us.

 Q. Talk about just what he brings, not just at the plate, but how big he is in the clubhouse. 
 RON WASHINGTON: Presence, clubhouse professional, knowledgeable. He makes everyone in the lineup better. That's what he did for us. I don't think you can put a worth on what he did for us. Got us big hits. I think he got 50-something two-out RBIs. That's a lot of RBIs with two outs. Potential Hall of Famer.

 Q. With so many of those young guys, with Julio, and Nelson and so many of those guys that grew up idolizing, even the pitchers, not just the position players -- talk about that influence that he has. 
 RON WASHINGTON: That's the type of guy that you're very lucky to have. We were very fortunate to get him last year. Just having him on the team, he helped relax everyone else. He made Cruz better, he made Alvarez better, he made Borbon better when they felt uncertainty they had someone to go to to ease it because there wasn't anything that they could go through that he hadn't already been through. That's what it's all about.

 Q. What is your bullpen missing right now? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I think we got him back, Frankie Francisco. I think we had a pretty good bullpen. I think our starting rotation grew up a little bit, which I feel will help those guys to understand the importance of going deep in the game and saving them. 
 You never are as good as you want to be, so you're always looking. But I think our bullpen is pretty good right now.

 Q. What do you make of the fact that Vladimir's second half numbers were not as good as his first half numbers? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Baseball, it happens. Still ended up
hitting .300, close to 30 bombs and drove over 100 runs, so baseball. If you play it long enough, you'll have a period of time where things just don't go right. Young kids, you may have to try to protect them. A veteran guy, you let him stay in the fight and let him fight. He did.
  So it happens. Funny thing about the game is two things are prevalent: You either get off good or you get off bad. But what it's all about is not how you started, it's how you finish. 

 Q. You talk about the DH position or that bat, Josh missed 30 games, Nelson missed 30 games. Your first base situation from the right-hand side was problematic all year. Do you feel like you need a guy as good a DH as Vlad was? Do you feel like you need a guy who can -- were you ever shorthanded defensively? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, I was shorthanded defensively. The reason why we were able to do what we did last year was because we never let adversity affect us. In the game of baseball, you're always going to experience adversity. 
 The good teams deal with adversity, and the bad teams let the adversity deal with them. We're a good team, and we'll continue to deal with whatever adversity comes upon us. 
 That was just a situation for us that was adverse, but it didn't bother us because we had people that stepped up and picked us up. We focused on one thing, a day at a time, and just trying to be the best team that night when we played, and that won't deteriorate at all.

 Q. Is it -- and I don't want to belittle the guy's defensive abilities, but at this point in time is it safe to say that the guys who are still out there on the market in addition to him have more defensive value? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Nope. I think the guys out there on the market brings everything. Whether it fits in with the Texas Rangers or not, we haven't determined that. But the guys that are out there on the market, they bring everything.

 Q. If Nelson Cruz tweaked something and needs three days and you need a right fielder, and you have Vladimir Guerrero, would you put him in right field for three games? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I've got David Murphy.

 Q. Presumably he's in left with Hamilton in center?
 RON WASHINGTON: I've got Borbon.

 Q. Are you entertaining scenarios in which -- are you planning right now that Josh Hamilton's going to play centerfield next year? 
 RON WASHINGTON: No.

 Q. You're planning for Julio Borbon playing centerfield? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I'm planning for Julio Borbon, and Gentry and whoever else we may pick up before we get to spring training. Somebody to take that job and run with it.

 Q. You want Hamilton in left? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I want Hamilton in left.

 Q. Why is that? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Take wear and tear off him. It's simple.

 Q. If you look at -- I might be wrong here, but I'll just look back at most of the injuries that Josh has suffered since he came to the Rangers. They're concussive injuries, they're from running into walls. Has his body worn down a lot from the running aspect of centerfield? 
 RON WASHINGTON: No, just that we have younger personnel that can handle centerfield out there better. Hamilton is a big body, and we want to try to keep him as healthy as we can and get him in as many ballgames as we possibly can. 
 That doesn't mean Hamilton won't be in centerfield. But if we can avoid it and get one of our guys to take over over there, that's what we'd like to do.

 Q. What is your view on Borbon? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Young, think he gained a lot of experience of what Major League Baseball season is like. I think he gained a lot of mental toughness, because at the Major League level, that is exactly what it takes. The mental toughness moved into physical toughness because everyone at the Major League level has great physicality. It's being able to overcome the mental grind. 
 I think now that he has a winter to think about the things that he could have done, this guy still almost hit .280. I think he's accomplished a lot, and we're certainly looking forward to him coming into spring training. We certainly haven't given up on him, and he is our future.

 Q. He's in the Dominican right now. What areas of focus of Borbon did you talk to him about specifically? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Decision-making, working on his bunting.

 Q. What kind of decisions in particular are you talking about? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Hitting the cutoff man, throwing to the right bag, knowing when and when not to throw at someone, stuff like that. That comes with experience.

 Q. Those are more defensive type issues than offensive? 
 RON WASHINGTON: It's more mental type issues than anything.

 Q. Did you talk to him this week? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Yeah, I did.

 Q. He's not playing, right? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Yes, he is.

 Q. Oh, yeah? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Yeah. He's playing.

 Q. His arm seemed to be an issue? 
 RON WASHINGTON: His arm is what it is. I think his technique, which Garrett works on consistently, is going to help his delivery and help his ball. But his arm is what it is. I don't think there's anything we can do to make his arm a seven or a six. It is what it is. It's just making proper decisions, hitting the cutoff man and throwing to the right bag, stuff like that.

 Q. You could compensate for some of those arm shortcomings, right? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Hitting the ball and getting to the cutoff man.

 Q. This is going to come across stupid, but you've got a guy who you endorse as a Gold Glove outfielder who played centerfield in every one of your postseasons. How could Borbon unseat him from that situation? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Because Borbon comes in and shows that he's the player that he thought he would be. It's that simple. We've got nothing against Hamilton playing centerfield. Wear and tear, you've got to take care of him.

 Q. Do you want Borbon to be your leadoff hitter eventually or even this year? 
 RON WASHINGTON: He can either hit first or he can hit ninth. It doesn't matter. I have guys that can lead off, you know what I'm saying? When he comes into his own, I think he will determine where he hits in the lineup. Not where I want him to hit in the lineup.

 Q. But right now Elvis is your guy?
 RON WASHINGTON: I have some options, I have Elvis, I have Kinsler, and I have Borbon. So I think I have options, and that's a good thing. 

 Q. With all the things you guys have going on the board, are you considering the possibility that you would end up using Josh in center? 
 RON WASHINGTON: No, I'm hoping to come into spring training to use Josh in left.

 Q. That's not a scenario right now? 
 RON WASHINGTON: No.

 Q. And Murphy would be your fourth swing out? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Murphy would be a very important part of my outfield.

 Q. So if Ian Kinsler goes 3 for 15 in spring training, he's going to be your opening day second baseman?
 RON WASHINGTON: Kinsler.

 Q. If Moreland goes 3 for 15 in spring training, he's going to be around for --
 RON WASHINGTON: No. In his case it's how he went 3 for 15.

 Q. But he's still got to earn the job?
 RON WASHINGTON: Yes, he's still got to earn, yeah.

 Q. Is there anything in particular you want to see him come in to earn that job? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I just want to see him come in and show improvement in his thought processes, and that may have to do with the cutoffs and relays and being in the right spot, improving his foot work, improving his glove work. Everything that you want to see. We know the type of hitter that he is. We know he has the capability of grinding on at-bats. He will make pitchers throw strikes and all the things that you want to see, he does as far as offense goes. But more to the game than just offense.

 Q. Do you think this division maybe gained some more respect around the game now based on what you guys have done and what the Angels did in previous seasons? It doesn't seem to generate a lot of respect overall. 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, you know, I don't know. I can only speak for the Texas Rangers. Certainly seen a lot of teams giving us respect, so I can't speak for the rest of them. I respect the Oakland A's. I respect the Anaheim Angels and I respect the Seattle Mariners. I know I do. I don't know about anybody else, so I really couldn't answer that.

 Q. How many wins do you think it will take to win the division next year? 
 RON WASHINGTON: I don't know. It took 90 this year. I don't know. I know we personally have to be better than 90. I don't know where that's going to take us, but I don't know. 
 I know Anaheim will be better. I know Oakland will be better, and I know Seattle will be better. So I really don't know.

 Q. It seems like all your competitors have great pitchers and are looking for offense. That's kind of what everybody in this division needs, isn't it, offense? 
 RON WASHINGTON: You hit it on the nose. The division has a lot of pitching. I really haven't been checking to see what holes Anaheim needs to fill. I know Oakland is doing a good job of trying to fill some of their offensive woes. I haven't heard much about what Seattle's been doing. We certainly are trying to continue to strengthen ourselves. So there is definitely pitching in this division.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT