MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v GIANTS
November 1, 2010
Ron Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







San Francisco Giants 3
  Texas Rangers  1

 RON WASHINGTON: I just want to congratulate the San Francisco Giants. They're truly the world champions. You know, they beat us soundly. I just want to give Bruce Bochy and his staff a congratulations for what they did with their team and the way he kept them motivated and kept them playing. They deserve it. I just want to say congratulations. 

 Q. In the 7th inning with Cliff, did you feel like you were just trying to get him through that inning? Looked like the curve a couple times was losing the bite. Did you think he was near the end?
 RON WASHINGTON: No, I wasn't trying to get him through the inning. That was his inning. He got a ball up to Renteria and he got it, but no, Cliff was in good shape.

 Q. After Vlad drove your offense all year, did the Giants take advantage of his aggressiveness at the plate in this series? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, you know, I didn't see anything different than what Vlad was doing against everyone else. You know, they just made some better pitches because they're a very good pitching team. You know, he drove our offense, Hamilton drove our offense, Cruz drove our offense. You go up and down our lineup they drove our offense. Good pitching stops hitting, and in this series their pitching certainly stood up, and that was the difference right there. 

 Q. When you reflect on your season you had, 150-something days in first place, beat the Rays, beat the Yankees, been a pretty great ride for you guys. 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, I'm very proud of, number one, my players, the way they showed up every single day, and they played the game with a passion. The way they was committed to each other. I'm very proud of my coaching staff for keeping that together. I'm very proud of the organization for supplying me with the players that I had. I'm very proud of the scouting staff, the development staff, everything that had anything to do with the Texas Rangers. I'm very proud of it. 
 We made a commitment to each other in Spring Training, and a lot of times you say things, but it never happens. Well, it happened this year. You know, I'm the leader of the Texas Rangers, but I'm only as good as my followers, and my followers are pretty good, so they made me look good. 

 Q. Given the people in the middle of their batting order that you were conscious of, was the pop that Renteria showed throughout the series somewhat surprising?
 RON WASHINGTON: No, I've seen him do that before. He's a quality ballplayer. You look at that lineup that the Giants have, they have some quality players out there, and Renteria, this wasn't his first rodeo in the World Series, either. He's a big-time player, so is Uribe, big-time player, and he's playing big time. The word I got, he was slow at shortstop, he looked like the young Renteria that I seen when he first came over. They played extremely good baseball. 

 Q. Of course it was the Giants' pitching, but was their hitting better than you thought it would be?
 RON WASHINGTON: No. You know, I don't know if I thought their hitting was bad. I mean, you look at the lineup they put out there, they're pretty good. You know, they put a ton of runs up on us. I thought our pitching staff was pretty good, too. 
 So no, you know, Uribe has done it before. Renteria has done it before. Aubrey Huff, may have been his first World Series, but he's certainly got plenty of big hits before, so that wasn't surprising. That Posey kid is somewhat you're going to have to deal with for a long time to come. He's one heck of a player. Ross, I mean, this guy is a gamer. They have a bunch of gamers out there. Rowand wasn't even player and he's a gamer. No, that team is pretty well equipped. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT