MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v GIANTS
October 30, 2010
Ron Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







San Francisco Giants 2
  Texas Rangers  4

 Q. What's it like being able to put out a lineup in which you've got a No. 9 guy who can juice the ball? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, you know, it's nice. Mitch Moreland has certainly established himself as a Major League player. He's just a battler. He goes up there and he uses every bit of talent he has. He fights, and when he gets his pitch, he don't usually miss it. That was a huge home run for us tonight, put us on the board, gave us a little breathing room, and Colby Lewis took it from there.

 Q. Can you discuss Colby Lewis' invaluable contribution, not only tonight but throughout the post-season. 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, he's been great for us all year. You know, through the course of the year you've got five pitchers out there and there's usually one that doesn't get run support, and he was that guy. He didn't get run support but he pitched well. He pitched as well during the season as he pitched night. We certainly needed it, and he went out there and he stepped up and he gave us what we needed and gave us an opportunity to finally get a win. He did a tremendous job. Can't say any more than that. We certainly need it. 

 Q. How important is it for you to have a Josh Hamilton and the way that he has hit left-handed pitching, he's hit them for some power in this post-season? 
 RON WASHINGTON: When you've got a guy like Josh in that lineup they will try to put as many lefties on him as they can. The more he see the more comfortable he becomes. You make a mistake to him, he can make you pay as he did tonight and it turned out to be a big one for us. 
 The more Josh goes up there and the more pitches he begins to see, I think he'll continue to swing the bat well for us. 

 Q. Can you just talk about getting back into this series, now 2-1. I know that's the way baseball go, but how do you feel about getting this win tonight?
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, I feel great. We wanted to get back home. We felt comfortable here. We knew we could finally put a good game together, and we did. You know, it took the whole team to get it done, and they certainly did. But it feels great. 
 You know, we have to come back tomorrow and do the same thing. 

 Q. Colby has come out and pitched -- all three of his wins have been the day after you guys have lost a game. What is it about a pitcher and what does it say about a guy who can come out and give the team a performance like he's done coming off of a loss?
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, that just goes to show you that he's prepared. He knows what he has to do. He executes. And more than anything else, his command is what it's all about. If he can command his pitches and he can put them where he wants to, you'll get out of him what we did tonight. And it was quite important for us tonight because we needed a well-pitched job. 
 They've been having opportunities to come back on us late, but tonight we was able to stop that. 

 Q. Speaking of that, what were your thoughts on O'Day and Feliz out of the pen?
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, they were tremendous. We had O'Day for Posey, but after Colby got the second out there, then he got two quick strikes on Huff. After he got the second out, I really wanted him to finish that inning, give him a chance to finish it, and he got two quick strikes on Huff and tried to bury a breaking ball at his back foot and ended up hitting him. I had O'Day ready for Posey. So I brought him in Posey. He got me the ground ball, got out the inning and gave the ball to Feliz. 

 Q. Have you ever tempted to move Moreland up the lineup a little bit with the way he's hit since you called him up?
 RON WASHINGTON: No, with our lineup he's hitting right where he needs to be. 

 Q. Does the win ensure that Tommy Hunter starts tomorrow or do you still give thought to Lee perhaps?
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, as far as I was concerned, Tommy Hunter always had the start tomorrow. He will start tomorrow. 

 Q. Talk about the journeys that many guys on your team have taken to get here. How sweet is the reward for Josh and for Colby to have their roles in the first World Series game here given the journeys they've both been on?
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, it's a dream, a dream come true. I think we all in the game of baseball that's certainly played or coached it, when we hit Spring Training it's to get to the World Series. And somebody made a statement to me, if we told you in February that you would be 0-2 in the World Series, how would you feel about it? Well, I would feel tremendous. Those guys put in hard work. They work hard every day. They care about each other. And the thing I love the most about them is they never quit. 
 Colby and Josh are two examples of what the Texas Rangers is about. And I think it's a tremendous example. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT