MLB WORLD SERIES: RANGERS v GIANTS
October 27, 2010
Ron Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Texas Rangers   7
  San Francisco Giants 11 
   
  Q. Based on what you saw of Vlad in right field tonight, do you have to reconsider the idea of using him out there?   
 RON WASHINGTON: No, I don't. A couple balls got by him.   
  
  Q. What did you see with Cliff tonight?   
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, I saw the Giants work him pretty good. You know, I think it was the third inning when he put the two runs up. He threw 32 pitches, just sort of ran out of gas there by the time we got to the fifth, and they put some good at-bats together, put some runs on the board, and we just couldn't recover.   
  
  Q. What was Sanchez doing against you guys, especially in the early going with the three doubles?   
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, you know, we left some pitches in some spots we didn't want. A couple of those pitches we wanted to get a little deeper in on him, but that guy can hit, man, and when you don't get them where you're supposed to get them, that's what happens. The first double he hit, you know, got it inside of first base, and then in the ninth, eighth inning there, he got a slider going away from him, hit it inside there, a cutter that didn't make it all the way in. He hit one in the gap all the way down the line. He can swing the bat, and if you don't get the pitches where they're supposed to be, that's what happens.  
  
  Q. Given how many pitches Cliff threw in the third, if you had to do it over again, would you have gotten O'Day up earlier in the fifth?  
 RON WASHINGTON: No, he was still in control.   
  
  Q. Lincecum struggled early, how important was it not to get more off of that the first two innings when you had base runners on? Kinsler hit into that double play.   
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, you know, he's a good pitcher, and when you have a guy like that on the ropes, you have to try to put him away. But you don't always put those kind of guys away. You know, they got to Cliff tonight, we didn't get to Lincecum. He made a good pitch on Kins. Felt like he was about to throw a strike there and he didn't put it where it was supposed to be. He made the pitch to get the double play, and he got out of the inning.   
 But we worked him pretty good. You know, he got a battle. But they just scored more runs than we could put up.   
  
  Q. How well does C.J. handle this type of situation given the circumstances?   
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, I think you mentioned circumstances, every day is different. He'll come out tomorrow and he'll attack them the way we plan to attack them, and hopefully he's getting pitches where he wants to, and maybe tomorrow can be a different day. Maybe we'll end up scoring the runs.   
  
  Q. With the four errors, can you attribute it to a lot of the players being in their first World Series and being jittery?  
 RON WASHINGTON: No, I wouldn't think so. The ball hit to Mike's left, he just didn't get to it. Elvis came in on the slow roller, just didn't come up with it. Vlad went down the line and let one get by him. And it was a line drive, he came in, he played a little too short and it got by him. Jitters didn't have anything to do with it. They put 11 runs on the board. They beat us. We'll get it back tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT