AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS v RAYS
October 10, 2010
Ron Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Tampa Bay Rays 5
  Texas Rangers  2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Ron Washington. 

 Q. Wash, when Longoria came to bat Zobrist got on first and the passed ball got him to second, did you have any thoughts about putting Longoria on in that situation? 
 RON WASHINGTON: No, I didn't. I thought Derek was throwing the ball well, and just happened to get a pitch in the wrong place. 

 Q. Obviously there's been a huge momentum switch in this thing now. Lee is here to stop that. Is that the issue now? Lee gets the momentum back? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, what it is when we started it was a five-game series. We took two at their place, they took two here. So this is what it's all about. It's down to one game. We've got Cliff going and we certainly feel good about it. We have proved that we can win there, so it's what it's about. Five games and we took it five. So we certainly would have liked to have come home and won one game, but we didn't. So we have to go Tampa and we have to do it. So Cliff is the guy. 

 Q. Ron, you had Tommy Hunter kind of a weird line with so many strikes in the fourth, sort of typified it with the three doubles. What was the fine line with the strikeouts and getting hit hard? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Just getting the ball up. I thought the one that Peña hit he did a good job of hanging over the plate. It was a fastball going away from him. And he just went with the pitch. That was good hitting right there. Longoria, he went up there looking for a first-pitch fastball, he got it and he didn't miss it. 
 Just started getting the ball up. But I thought Tommy the first three innings were pretty good, mixing his pitches well. They're a good team at taking pitches and not missing what they want. So when you put something up there that they want, they hit it. 

 Q. What do you think is happening with your bats these two games? 
 RON WASHINGTON: The Rays' pitching. I thought the kid today did a good job of mixing. I thought when he had to make pitches, he did. And that's what it's all about. Good pitching stops hitting and he pitched good. 

 Q. That same line is that all it is with Josh Hamilton? Or does he look like he is not 100%? Hasn't driven in a run yet this series. 
 RON WASHINGTON: You know, I don't think no one is 100% right now. But you understand Josh hasn't seen live pitching in a month and he's up there fighting, and he's fighting hard. It's not an excuse, but he hasn't seen pitching in a while and he is facing some pretty good pitching right now. 

 Q. Ron, your starters, does Hunter have to have the least margin of error? Does he have to be kind of perfect with location in order to get guys out? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Well, that's his style. He's not a power pitcher. He certainly has to be able to spot his fastball. He certainly has to keep his breaking ball down and change-up down. That's just his style of pitching. So I wouldn't say you have to be perfect, because I don't believe there is any perfection in the game of baseball, but when you start elevating the ball, that's when it can be problems for him. 

 Q. Ron, thinking back to the trade that brought Lee here, is this why you got him, for this type of game? 
 RON WASHINGTON: Yes, this is why we got him, for this type of game. And I certainly feel great about what's about to happen when we get to Tampa. And we couldn't have a better guy on the mound. 
 THE MODERATOR: Okay, thank you, run.
 RON WASHINGTON: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT