WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2002
Barry Cowan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Reaction to that?  Disappointment, I presume? 

BARRY COWAN:  Obviously, really disappointed, especially having started so well:  first set, first game of the second.  When you're looking back on reflection, when you're playing a class player as Nicolas, you need to stamp on them.  Having sort of given the initiative back straightaway, I think that was the telling factor in the match.  He obviously got better and better, grew in confidence, and I obviously dipped in a little bit of form.  Obviously, as the score suggests in the end, he won quite comfortably.  Certainly at the start, I was a match for him. 

Q.  What positives do you take out of it then? 

BARRY COWAN:  Well, I think it was pretty obvious.  I mean, I came out really well and sort of stamped my authority on the match, which I felt I wanted to do.  And that was apparent of my game plan.  Certain areas I practiced on yesterday were working really well.  But, you know, he's a good player.  I think good players can play on any surface when they put their mind to it.  He obviously is focused on trying to do well here.

Q.  Was the heat bothering you?  Did you tire at all?

BARRY COWAN:  No.  I mean, sort of people go on about the heat  - obviously, it's hot  - but I've played in a lot worse conditions.  Obviously, not five sets, but I've played in places like Singapore where it's twice as bad.  So that wasn't a factor at all.

Q.  What next for you now?

BARRY COWAN:  I've got doubles obviously tomorrow.

Q.  After Wimbledon. 

BARRY COWAN:  Well, I mean, I just want to really concentrate on my doubles, look forward to that.  I'm playing with Jamie Delgado, so he's obviously a little hurt from his epic with Lapentti.  Hopefully we can do well, you know, progress. 

Q.  Did Jamie offer you any advice?

BARRY COWAN:  My coach spoke to Jamie and spoke to his coach.  I did have a game plan.  It was working well.  But, you know, it's not as easy to always execute it.  But, you know, he started to serve really well.  That was probably the telling factor.  And I think he grew from that, a bit more comfortable on the returns.  I thought he played well at the end. 

Q.  What's the issue with you and Dave?  Is he back coaching you now? 

BARRY COWAN:  Yes, Dave  -- I started to work with Dave again August last year.  When we made the split at Queen's last year, it was purely amicable, as I said at the time.  But I just felt at that stage of my career, I needed a kick start.  You can have all the input you want from your coach, from your trainer, but end of the day, it's the player who has to self-motivate themselves, try to find the problems.

Q.  Did you struggle with self-motivation today?  You tended to look a lot at Dave.  You looked like you were trying to draw something from somewhere. 

BARRY COWAN:  No.  Obviously, you're always looking for a little bit of inspiration.  But I wasn't struggling at all.  That was no different from my first round match, no different from every time I've been with Dave and when we've been on the road.

Q.  Did you draw any inspiration from the crowd?  They were really behind you. 

BARRY COWAN:  The crowd has been great.  They definitely do help.  They helped Monday, helped today.  Unfortunately, I wasn't able to give them the win.  Let's hope that the other two male players left in the draw can get a bit of success and maybe go on and do well at the end of the tournament.

Q.  Do you think they can, if you look they draw and their form?

BARRY COWAN:  Well, it's heading to sort of a weird, weird tournament.  Obviously, Safin is out, Sampras is in a bit of a dogfight, Federer lost yesterday to Ancic, who I think we'll hear a lot more of.  I think it's obviously going to set up to be a very interesting tournament.  I think you have to go with a guy with a grass court pedigree.  Henman and Rusedski's names come out as the top players for that.

Q.  If one of those two could win, do you think it would have long-term repercussions for the British game as a whole?

BARRY COWAN:  I would hope so.  I think you look back at other nationalities.  I think Sweden is the classical case.  I don't think they were anything in tennis until certainly Bjorn Borg came along.  Lifted the whole spirits of the country.  I think everyone wanted to be the next Bjorn Borg.  I think at one time they might have had five players in the Top 10, which is unbelievable.  Obviously, I think you can see the attention we have at Wimbledon, the attention we have at Davis Cup, and obviously for me being a part of the game, it is a great game.  You know, hopefully the inspiration they would draw from a Wimbledon Champion...  I'm sure they'll keep telling everyone they have five or six matches left.

Q.  Who is your tip?

BARRY COWAN:  I'm not sure you should ask me.  My tip is already home.  I actually thought Federer was a great prospect to win the tournament.  Tim, Greg, they're definitely in with a chance, as are Hewitt and Agassi and Sampras and Philippoussis.  I would doubt if there would be anyone else out of those names I've mentioned. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT