WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2001
Barry Cowan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Was that the match of your life? 

BARRY COWAN:  Undoubtedly.  As I've said in the lead-up to the match, I've never been put in that position, playing in front of a big crowd, on the biggest stage.  So, yeah, I mean, I thought I quit myself very well.  Just a shame when I had a little sniff of a chance  -- well, it's not always a sniff against Sampras, but 4-3 in the fifth, two breakpoints.  He came up with two aces.  That's why he's won seven out of eight Wimbledons. 

Q.  Two sets to love down, what were you saying to yourself at that particular stage of the match?

BARRY COWAN:  I mean, it was strange because I felt really good on myself, I felt like I was hitting the ball very well.  I was having a bit of a nightmare with my serve.  I didn't have much rhythm.  Really, all you do at two sets to love down is hang in, and that's what I did.  Obviously, got more and more confident.  Played a great tiebreak.  Then I took the momentum through in the fourth, which I think it's important.  Obviously, in the fifth was, you know, a little disappointing at the start, but came back really well.  You know, he closed it out like a true champion.

Q.  What did Pete say to you at the end?

BARRY COWAN:  He said, "Well played."  I mean, he's a credit to the game.  He does it in the right way.  You know, he came up at 4-3 in the fifth and hit two aces.  I mean, too good. 

Q.  Before the match, you said you didn't have to be Einstein to work out there was a big difference.  Did you honestly think before the match that you could take him that close?

BARRY COWAN:  My mind goes back to February, when Liverpool played Crystal Palace and they lost 2-1 away.  Clinton Morrison said some stupid things.  They paid for it two weeks later.  I mean, against great players, I mean, it's sport.  Four weeks ago Mike Russell played Gustavo Kuerten and had match points.  I played tournaments with Mike for years, actually beaten him a few times.  I knew if I could get my game on the court, who knows.  If I took my chance, you never know. 

Q.  You weren't seriously thinking of Liverpool out there today, were you?

BARRY COWAN:  Yeah, I was.  I find it helps me take my mind off the match.  Yeah, I was. 

Q.  So you find it easier to have your mind taken off the match when you play?

BARRY COWAN:  Yeah, at certain stages.  Obviously, when I'm going up to serve, when I hit the volley, I'm not thinking about Anfield.  Change of ends, when the time is required to relax a little bit.  You know, when you're playing five sets like that, you can't concentrate for five sets without a little break.  But I thought I focused really well.  So I was pleased, yeah. 

Q.  When you went into the fifth set, did you think, "That's it, I'm going to win this now"? 

BARRY COWAN:  No, not at all.  My focus at the start of the fifth was the same as throughout the match.  It was just I wish I could play the second and third point again on my service game when I was a bit hesitant.  Against a player like that, you can't do it.  I was really pleased with the way I came back in the fifth.  Maybe on another day he might have missed a serve.  Who knows, I might have got back to 4-All. 

Q.  Have you had a chance to speak to your mom and dad?

BARRY COWAN:  I haven't.  I've literally just come off court, had a quick stretch and a shower, then come to see you guys. 

Q.  What is your main emotion at the moment?  Is it elation at having played so well, disappointment at being so close, or a combination of both?

BARRY COWAN:  I mean, as soon as I walked off court, I was disappointed.  But I guess the more I reflect and think about the match, I've got to be pleased with the way I handled myself out there.  My first time in a match like that, you know, I was really pleased.  I think the crowd were great.  It's funny, actually.  The start of the third when they started the Mexican wave, I was thinking, "God, I've got to try and play a bit better."  But, no, they were great throughout the match.  I think I said yesterday, a home crowd can give you a little advantage, and they did that today.

Q.  You've talked a bit about sports psychology the last few days.  How much has that helped you?  How important do you think it is to tennis these days?

BARRY COWAN:  I think it's up to the person.  It's helped me a lot.  I said in my press after my first-round match, before I worked with Gloria, I wouldn't have won my match on Monday.  So she takes some credit for that.  Then she helped me out there today.  Because this year hasn't been the best for me in terms of winning matches.  So hopefully this week will stand me in good stead for the summer. 

Q.  There's going to be a lot of people walking away from that court saying, "Where has he been all these years?"  How do you answer that kind of question? 

BARRY COWAN:  Yeah, I mean, I've always felt I've had ability to play tennis, but certain things have held me back.  One of those is physically.  I've worked really hard over the last two and a half years on that.  I think a lot of credit has to go to my trainer, Jez Green, who is involved with the LTA.  He's helped me on that.  I've seen over that time improvements in testing, and that gives you confidence.  Also with my coach, David Sammel - my excoach  - he takes a lot of credit.  But I felt this year I was losing matches not because of my tennis or my fitness, but because of my mental mind, shall I say.  I was trying to work it out myself.  But two or three weeks ago, I sat down with Dave.  We thought that the best way was to work with Gloria.  I think it's helped. 

Q.  In what way have you played differently do you think mentally in the last two or three weeks than before?  Where can you feel the difference?

BARRY COWAN:  I think I'm more relaxed.  I think believing in myself more.  It's strange because I've always believed I can live with these guys, but then at strange times in a match, not always at 6-All or 4-All, sometimes early on in sets, you know, at strange times.  You know, hopefully now, having had this experience this week, winning my first match here, then having the match today, I can build on that.  That's important.  Hopefully this is the start of better things to come, and I can build on that for the rest of the year.

Q.  Can you reveal now what this music is?

BARRY COWAN:  It's "You'll Never Walk Alone."  As I said to a few guys yesterday, it's obviously very special to me, being a fanatical Liverpool supporter.  When I go to the games, you hear the music, it is very moving.  It helps me. 

Q.  Will you continue using it from now on?

BARRY COWAN:  I think so, yeah.  It helps.  I will do that in the tournaments to come. 

Q.  What's your next tournament after this?

BARRY COWAN:  I play two challengers in England on grass, then I go away to Brazil straight after for three hard court challengers.

Q.  And the first of those tournaments, what's the prize?

BARRY COWAN:  It's $50,000 total prize money.

Q.  First place?

BARRY COWAN:  I think it's something like $5,000 to win.  It's important that I go with the same focus as I've done the last two weeks. 

Q.  What does it feel like to have arguably the greatest ever grass court player on the ropes, as you did have in the fourth set, struggling?

BARRY COWAN:  Yeah, I mean, I definitely did have him on the ropes.  I mean, his reaction when he served the ace in the fifth set, difficult to say, but it gave me a little more confidence because I knew that I really had him.  You know, it was a tough match out there.  As I said before, he came up with the goods.

Q.  What are you going to be doing tomorrow after this?  Where are you going to be? 

BARRY COWAN:  Well, I've got doubles, playing with Jamie Delgado.  I'm not sure if I play tomorrow.  He plays Agassi.  I'm not sure if we're playing.  Also I'm in the mixed.

Q.  Practising and treating as another day?

BARRY COWAN:  I obviously won't practise that much.  I'll probably be pretty emotionally tired tomorrow.  I'll hit some balls, you know, get ready for the doubles.  I've been playing with Jamie since March.  We seem to be getting better and better as every week goes by.  Looking forward to doing well here.

Q.  How are you going to handle your new-found celebrity status? 

BARRY COWAN:  I don't know.  I'll just see what happens.  I don't know. 

Q.  Did you listen to the music today, as well?

BARRY COWAN:  Yes, I did. 

Q.  It was the original version?

BARRY COWAN:  Yes. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT