WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2001
Barry Cowan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Obviously a good one to win.  It's more looking forward to the next one, isn't it?

BARRY COWAN:  Yeah.  I mean, everyone has been telling me that the last five days since the draw came out.  I've been trying to stress to all the media I had to concentrate on this match today because if I let my mind drift to the future, I would have come a cropper today.  Obviously now I've won.  Really pleased to win.  I can look forward.  I think it will be a very special moment for me on Wednesday, if he wins, the best grass court player ever. 

Q.  Start was a little shaky.  Was it a very nervous occasion for you?

BARRY COWAN:  It's actually strange because I actually felt very relaxed, but I was a bit low on confidence.  Then sort of when I broke back, started to see the ball a bit better, I gained confidence.  Second set for me was very good.  Obviously, the third I broke early, had a tricky game to lose serve.  You know, I was pleased to come through in the tiebreak.  Played a really positive tiebreak.  So very happy. 

Q.  I presume playing Sampras would be the highlight of your career so far.  What would your previous highlight have been till that point?

BARRY COWAN:  It would have been definitely competing in the Olympics last year.  It was a memorable experience for me.  I was fortunate to play singles and doubles.  To be involved in the sort of whole atmosphere there is something that will stay with me forever. 

Q.  Obviously, being professional about ten years now, facing Sampras, is this what you've been waiting for?

BARRY COWAN:  Yeah, these are the sorts of things you dream of when you're a kid.  I've had a lot of tough times.  Sort of stuck with it.  Wednesday will be a great experience.  I'll give it my best.  You know, let's see what happens. 

Q.  You say you've had tough times.  The ranking has gone down quite a bit this year.  You just split with Dave, is that right?

BARRY COWAN:  Yes.

Q.  Talk about how tough it has been just lately. 

BARRY COWAN:  Yeah, I mean, Dave, I sat down with Dave after the Queen's match, which was pretty horrible.  It was funny.  Actually, both of us agreed at the same time that it would be in the best interest for me to further my career.  I mean, I've been with him for two and a half years.  He's been very good to me.  He taught me a lot.  At the end of the day, it's the player who makes the next step.  You can have coaches telling you, trainers training you - but the player is the one who, at the end of the day, makes the difference.  Hopefully, I would like to get back with Dave.  At the moment, I'm enjoying it.  So maybe in September. 

Q.  Was it a financial thing?

BARRY COWAN:  No, not at all.  Not at all.  I mean, the LTA have been great.  Fortunate to have Dave traveling with us as part of a squad.  It wasn't anything to do with financial.  It was just both me and Dave thought it was the best for my tennis.

Q.  You've been batting away for a long, long time now.  How tough has it been to keep going at times?

BARRY COWAN:  Yeah, I mean, obviously '95 was my low.  I had glandular fever then.  By the time I got my ranking back, it was 18 months.  That was the biggest low.  Last year was my best year by far.  I had a lot of highs, being selected for Davis Cup, going to the Olympics.  This year has been a bit slow.  It's difficult to sometimes get across that you feel your tennis has improved, my fitness has improved a lot, worked really hard on that for two years.  But when the results aren't coming, it is tough.  I've been working with a sports psychologist the last two weeks.  I think that's helped.

Q.  Is that the same one as Martin?

BARRY COWAN:  Yes. 

Q.  How will you approach Wednesday's game? 

BARRY COWAN:  I guess I know his game (laughter).  I'll just play my own game.  I mean, it's pretty clear what I'll do.  You know, I'll go out and enjoy it.  I guess  -- he would have thought maybe Court 1.  It would just be a great experience.

Q.  You've been here a number of times.  You've been given wildcards, obviously.  Has there been a point at which you thought "I've come out, they've given me a wildcard, I've lost," has there been a point when you've felt guilty, not justifying their faith?

BARRY COWAN:  I mean, obviously it is very difficult when you do get wildcards.  Although, early on in my career, when I did get wildcards here, that enabled me to travel.  You know, with the money I got for losing first round, obviously the doubles, I was able to go anywhere that I wanted to, which is important.  I think if you're an athlete, and you say, "Well, I can't afford to go to India, Australia, because of finance," I think that's wrong.  If you have the money, you should invest, and that's what I've done.  You know, I think it's nice.  Someone said to me five minutes before the match, they were seeing the stats on Court 3, "I didn't realize you were 0 and 5."  It was five minutes before the match (laughter).  It was a bit strange.  No, it's nice to win. 

Q.  I understand there's a little bit of rivalry today in terms of football, that you're a Liverpool fan. 

BARRY COWAN:  Yeah.  Playing a United fan.  We've already done the double this year.  Hope we can do the treble.  It's been a great year for Liverpool.  Obviously, very pleased with what they've done.  I was fortunate to go to the cup final, which was a great experience.

Q.  What were you listening to on your CD walkman, the Anfield Rap?

BARRY COWAN:  I can't really disclose that (smiling).  But you're not far away (laughter).

Q.  Did you have any sort of banter beforehand about this football connection?

BARRY COWAN:  No.  Haven't actually spoken to Mark after the match.  Some players like to be left alone.  Yeah, we've talked.  We talked about the draw, had a laugh, said it was ironic.  It's always nice to be a man united fan (smiling). 

Q.  About the Walkman again, are you going to change the tune for the next round in?

BARRY COWAN:  No, no.  It will be the same.  Although, I think at the start of the third, it didn't work (laughter).  I don't know.  Maybe it's broken. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT