WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2002
Andre Sa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Andre Sa. 


Q.  What was your feeling after serving two set points, winning the second set, break in the third? 

ANDRE SA:  I felt I had a pretty good chance right there because I was feeling more comfortable out there on the court and during the match.  I don't know, maybe if I would have gone up 2-All in that third set, maybe it would have been a different story.  I could put more pressure on him.  But that's not happening, I guess.

Q.  You didn't serve well?  You were afraid of winning?

ANDRE SA:  No, I guess he played  -- it was a tough game.  I mean, I cannot recall exactly what happened that game.  But I didn't give any free points.  I think he made two good passing shots, a good passing shot to break my serve.  When your opponent plays too good, you got to say, "Good job," just go for the next one.

Q.  What did he say to you at the end? 

ANDRE SA:  He just said, "Tough match, good tournament."  I told him, "All the best, good luck for the next match." 

Q.  What do you keep of this experience?

ANDRE SA:  It's a great experience for me.  I mean, quarterfinals of a Grand Slam, Centre Court.  I'm sure it's going to be a great memory for me for the rest of my career and the rest of my life. 

Q.  Do you think Tim Henman will win Wimbledon?

ANDRE SA:  I think he has a good chance.  I mean, he's got the crowd behind him.  I think he got less pressure now that he's already in the semifinals.  You know, it's going to be tough.  I think Schalken and Hewitt are still playing.  These guys are playing good tennis.  So he's going to have to play well to win.  But I think he has a chance.

Q.  Which are the areas that you think Tim needs to improve on to make sure hopefully he does win?

ANDRE SA:  It's tough to say.  It depends on the opponent.  It's tough to tell him, "Improve this, improve that."  He's going to have to do that during the match, depending on whoever he plays.

Q.  If he plays Hewitt, what do you think he needs to do?

ANDRE SA:  I guess he's going to have to maybe serve, improve the serve a little more, because Hewitt's got great returns.  But the rest, I think he's playing pretty solid.  He's going to have to play more balls because Hewitt is going to stay back.  Just be more consistent.

Q.  How did you see his serve today?  You didn't seem to have any problems with it. 

ANDRE SA:  Yeah, well, I mean, I'm usually returning pretty well, so it's a strong part of my game.  I mean, I felt that he served well when he needed to, so that made the difference.

Q.  Is his serve intimidating?

ANDRE SA:  Yes, it is.  It's coming maybe not as big as Rusedski, but it's pretty deep, comes very close to the lines and with good angles.  So it's tough to return.

Q.  Are you surprised that the conditions are quite slow this year?  Does that suit you better today?

ANDRE SA:  Well, I guess that's good for everybody.  I mean, when the grass is too quick, it's not good.  I don't think it's good for the game because is just serving and that's it.  When the grass is playable, like it was this year, I mean, you can stay back and play good points.  It's still fast enough for the serve and volleyers.

Q.  Not so good for Henman maybe. 

ANDRE SA:  It's still okay for his game.  It suits perfect.  He has like pretty flat shots, good slice, serving and volleying.  He doesn't have a huge serve, but he's got great volleys to back up the serve.  It's still fast enough for him. 

Q.  Would you like Tim to win?  Do you have a favorite of the competitors left?

ANDRE SA:  I don't have a personal favorite.  I think it would be nice for the country if he wins.  Everybody puts so much pressure.  I mean, I hope he wins it.  It's going to be great for the people, for the English people.

Q.  Crowd was quite quiet today. 

ANDRE SA:  Him? 

Q.  The crowd.  It wasn't very noisy. 

ANDRE SA:  Yeah, I guess yesterday they were a bit louder.  But it was okay.  I wasn't really listening.  I wasn't paying a lot of attention to the crowd, just trying to concentrate on the match.

Q.  Now can you celebrate the champion title of your country?

ANDRE SA:  Yeah, now I can.  I'm going to go home and enjoy  -- still enjoy the tennis more than the football.  But I'm sure they're still going to be celebrating a little bit, the World Cup.

Q.  But you?

ANDRE SA:  Yeah, I think I'm going to go see my friends, I'm going to celebrate the football.  But I think we'll celebrate more the tennis.

Q.  How do you intend to spend your biggest paycheck?

ANDRE SA:  I haven't thought about that.  Just wait and see. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT