UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 18, 2017
Patrick Laird
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Stanford - 17, Cal - 14
Q. What's the mood in there in the locker room?
PATRICK LAIRD: I think most people are disappointed.  We were in the game the whole time and I think we stopped ourselves offensively.  And I think the defense, they knew they could have made a couple more plays.  Right now it's, the idea is we're just going to bounce back this next week and get our sixth win.
Q. What happened on that 47-yard touchdown run you had to sideline there early.
PATRICK LAIRD: I didn't score a touchdown on that one?  The one on short?
Q. Yeah.  Yeah.
PATRICK LAIRD: Yeah.  I mean I think it was inside zone and big hole opened up back side and I think I came off of Gibson's block.  And, yeah, the O line was handling the stuff up front, gave me a lot of opportunities to get to the secondary, and I just almost got away.
Q. You haven't played much in this game at all in the past, but you've been around.  Did this feel like a huge step forward for your program, even though you lost?
PATRICK LAIRD: I mean, I don't know if I buy into moral victories very much --
Q. Aside from the moral victory part, do you think you represented yourself in a different way as a team than have you in the past?
PATRICK LAIRD: I think our team comes out and competes every single game, but at the end of the day we judge our performance off of whether you get a win or a loss.
Q. Can you talk about the issues capitalizing on big plays and then not scoring in the first half, not getting touchdowns in the first half?
PATRICK LAIRD: Yeah.  That was just offense not executing when we got down in the red zone.  We should have -- we all thought on the sideline that we should have finished drives and not kicked two field goals.
Q. What were you guys doing in particular that, other than the execution part of it, what were you not executing?
PATRICK LAIRD: There was multiple things, but at the end of the day we just weren't executing and finishing drives.
Q. Were you surprised that you were able to get as much as you did vertically and against that front, especially with Phillips?  You guys pretty much neutralized him.
PATRICK LAIRD: Yeah, No. 66?  Yeah, no, he did a lot of good things tonight.  No, I wasn't surprised.  I knew the guys up front were going to handle it.  Our tight ends also did a really good job and Malik, obviously.  But the O line did -- I knew they were going to handle the guys up front and give me some opportunities and give the other running back some opportunities to make some plays.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT