NBA 2K LEAGUE DRAFT
March 5, 2019
Michael Key
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Michael Key was selected by T-Wolves Gaming with the No. 11 overall pick of the 2019 NBA 2K League Draft. His gamer tag is BearDaBeast.   
MICHAEL KEY: For it to actually pay off, it's amazing.  It's hard to explain how you actually feel because the feeling is surreal.   
 Q.  You're from Winston-Salem?  
MICHAEL KEY: Yes, correct, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.  Well, I'm from Davie County, North Carolina.  I stay in Winston now, though.  I graduated from Winston and I started working at my alma mater.  But I actually grew up in Davie County.   
 Q.  So the Timberwolves is a new franchise --  
MICHAEL KEY: Correct.   
 Q.  And you were the first overall pick ever for them in the NBA 2K League Draft. How does it feel?  
MICHAEL KEY: I haven't given too much thought to that.  That's amazing.  I'm more excited about the guys there, Hood and IFEAST.  IFEAST is a dog. Hood hasn't been playing pro-am as much, but Hood is an unbelievable player as well.  Once he gets back into the field and he's playing it every day, man, that could be a crazy three.   
 Q.  What do you think about your fit with Hood?  
MICHAEL KEY: I actually think it'll work with Hood.  Hood can bring the ball up, but he always kind of plays off ball.  And if he did bring the ball up, he always had a secondary ball handler.  He's a scorer.  He can flat-out score the rock.  He can put the ball in the basket.  And I always play dominant point guard and always needed a guy such as a SlayIsland, and Hood is -- it fits well with me.  I can get the ball to Hood at any time and trust him with it and he can go win the game easily.   
 Q.  There are some people who had you going sixth to the Bucks.  They took your Island Gang teammate Plondo.  How do you feel about slipping to the Timberwolves?  
MICHAEL KEY: I'm super happy Plondo went.  I'm super happy for that.  Obviously you never want to drop, but to get to play with players such as IFEAST and Hood, I'm completely fine with.  Like I said, just to be in is a blessing.  You'll get nothing negative from me.   
 Q.  How do you think your father feels?  Is he here?  
MICHAEL KEY: No, my father isn't here.  I don't know how he'll feel, but I hope he's happy.  A lot of the things I got in my life, he instilled in me.  From seeing his bad, seeing his good, I learned from him, and he is the biggest influence in my life hands down.  It's not even close.  Biggest influence in my life.  I can't repay him.   
 Q.  How old are you?  
MICHAEL KEY: I'm 27.   
 Q.  What was it like last year to see the league be established and then know that you wanted to come in and do this?  
MICHAEL KEY: Extremely tough.  I try to stay even-keeled, but I got pretty low on that.  That was pretty bad.  You wanted something so bad and it didn't happen.  Knowing that it wasn't talent level but it was self-inflicted wounds made it hurt even worse.  So it was learning from your mistakes and just going out there and getting better.   
 Q.  I will say that your outfit is --  
MICHAEL KEY: Appreciate it.   
 Q.  The most spectacular, splendid.  Is there some guy that you modeled your style after?  
MICHAEL KEY: It's funny.  I called my dad last minute and I said, listen, I need you to help me put something together.  I've got an idea in my head.  We walked in the store and he saw the jacket.  I told him I want red shoes, red bowtie, maybe red vest, all white everything else.  He wanted the jacket.  I was like, no, no jacket.  He saw it in the first five seconds.  We stayed there trying stuff on for an hour and 30 minutes.  He said, boy, put the jacket on.  I put the jacket on.  I said, man, I love it.  He's like, man, you don't listen, I told you.  So then it worked out perfect.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT