NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RAPTORS VS. BUCKS
May 24, 2019
Nick Nurse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You credited Kawhi's playmaking even in the one-assist game [Game 4].  To see him get to nine, aside from just obviously shots going in, did you think it was more sort of movement away from the ball and more good energy and stuff happening?  What do you think led to that actually coming through this time?
NICK NURSE: Yeah, there was a little bit better what we call relocation.  Just trying to find the correct pathway where he can see you and get the ball to you a little easier.  It's taken us a little bit of probing and experimentation to get to that point.  We've done a pretty good job of adjusting to that -- or he has and our guys have, that's for sure.
Q. Do you look at Game 6 in terms of managing guys' minutes and a potential window of rest ahead?  I know we say these games are must-win all the time, but do you treat that minutes-wise like it is a must win, a game you guys have to have?
NICK NURSE: Yeah, it's a "whatever it takes" game.  It's an unlimited-minutes night.  This is just like any other critical must-win games.  Again, I stress this is a great team we're playing, the same team we played in Games 1 and 2 and double overtime in Game 3.  We've had to play really super hard and super well to get any victories.  So we're focusing our thoughts on the first part of that, playing super hard.
I think that's one thing you say we can control.  Can we control how hard we run back?  Can we control how hard we guard, help each other, contest shots, physical block-outs, physical screening, hard cuts on offense?  Those things we can control.  Some of the other stuff -- shots going in, some other breaks, the ball bouncing or whatever.  But we have to do the things we can control to give ourselves a chance to win the game.
Q. You talked a lot about the kind of even-keeled approach that you want everybody to take.  How much more difficult does that feel today knowing the stakes, the situation you guys have put yourself in for tomorrow?
NICK NURSE: I think it's really important for this.  In playoff series, I think the team that gets beat usually starts the next game more determined.  Whether they can maintain that or not, but the determination of the sting of the loss is fresh and you try to do everything you can to get rid of that feeling.
These are games that now have significance as far as one team is going one direction and one is going the other possibly.  As hard fought as all these have been -- and believe me, they have been -- I expect this one to be the hardest fought of them all.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT