BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2014
Chelsea Gardner
Bonnie Henrickson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









BONNIE HENRICKSON:   Well, I mean, defensively didn't matter what we were in.   They just looked at us and said we're going to rip it and drive on you and offensive rebound and get you in transition.   Give them a tremendous amount of credit.   They came out and ran a buzz saw and we didn't have an answer defensively.   I thought they were really, really aggressive with us in the first four minutes, got us out of sorts.   We had no rhythm, we started dribbling around like crazy and tried to take what we liked to do and they clearly from a scouting report defense played some people and we got exposed a little bit and didn't take lanes that were available and tried to play one‑handed.   Give them credit.   Obviously they were the more aggressive team from the tip, and we just never got back in it. 

Q.   Chelsea, I know it's a tough day today, but just talk a little bit about your growth this year coming from last year to this year and what you were able to accomplish and look forward to your senior year, as well. 
CHELSEA GARDNER:   I think I've grown a lot this year.   I've grown the outside game in knocking down jump shots, and I'll grow inside, too.   I think next year I just need to keep working hard in the off season and just work hard every day. 

Q.   Coach, just overall this past basketball season after the last two years, talk a little bit about this team and what you had to do.   Can you see the foundation being built for the future?
BONNIE HENRICKSON:   Yeah, we obviously lost three really talented kids last year, and I think when we look back and look at it from a consistency standpoint, we struggled.   These two up here, Chelsea and Natalie, were clearly by far the most consistent performers we had on the year.   Chelsea, the one thing you look at Chelsea‑‑ for each of them I would say Chelsea has got to stay out of foul trouble and Nat needs to be consistently as aggressive as we need her to be.   But we had too many guys that were one out of five games played play well, will give us something.   You can't do that in this league.   Our returners, and I said that, how consistent our returners would need to be, all of them, because we had very little room for error.   But if you're playing consistently and you're playing aggressively and playing with discipline, there shouldn't be a lot of error.
But we, just too much, with upperclassmen that were in a different role, obviously, because these two had a different role and I thought executed and performed at a high level, considering how their roles changed.   Natalie grew into ‑‑ I think once she started get being out of the brace, get back to 100 percent, I think actually is playing better now than she ever was before, and Chelsea being able to play at a high level, but we've got to have‑‑ CeCe was probably the most next consistent in that group, but past that, from a returner standpoint‑‑ freshmen are inconsistent, that's what they are.   The thing about a freshman, they'll become a sophomore.   It wasn't the group of freshmen, it was the returners around them not being consistent enough to sustain the success and the level of play to be successful in this league.   I think that's the most disappointing thing.   But you can't complain about the results you get overwork you didn't do. 
I still think in the offseason I think some guys didn't get in the gym like they needed to get in the gym.   We've got to shoot the ball better to get Chelsea some room, you think about that, we've got to give her some room to play and we've got too many guys that defensively they'll play in the paint and not guard well.   I don't tell people not to guard you.   That's not my scouting report, and I tell them all the time.   You've got to grow your game where you can play both right and left‑handed, you can pull up, you can get to the rim, shoot the three.   But defensively we've got to get better, tougher, and those things we'll work on this spring and summer.
But I think we've got‑‑ it's hard to talk about one‑possession games after this drubbing, but I think we're in 12 or 13 one‑possession games, and we win the one last night and find ways to make plays on both ends of the floor, and we're that close, but there's such a fine line between losing and winning, there really is.   In this league there have been a large amount of one‑possession games like there has been historically in this league, so we've got to be able to shore that up where every possession matters, every shot matters.   Those things, I think, from us moving forward about growing the returners and we've got a crop of young kids that I really believe will come in and help us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT