BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2018
Josh Teater
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great playing.  How does it feel to be a rock star here?  Got to feel pretty good about your golf right now.  You got it in just before the siren.
JOSH TEATER: Yeah, luckily tapped in that one-footer.  Yeah, it's great being here.  It's home.  To play good, it was everybody kind of pushing me on.
Got a little stale there in the middle.  Didn't make any putts but had plenty of looks.  Hopefully we get 36 more tries.
Q. Well, you spoke earlier in the week; someone saying, 30th on the Web and you're here.  What was that quote?  Is it the same one I heard?
JOSH TEATER: Not sure what I said.
Q. I heard, This is my Open Championship.
JOSH TEATER: Yeah, I mean, this is kind of my major.  Has been since they announced it, you know.  Top 25 on the Web does get you on the TOUR, but a win here also does.  That's what we're shooting for.
I wouldn't miss it unless I was across the pond.
Q. Just talk about the round.
JOSH TEATER: You know, it was solid.  Kind of a lot like yesterday.  Had a lot of looks, awesome putts go in early, and got hot.  Wish I could have made a few more in the middle, but got one there on 17 coming in; just short on 18.
All in all, good day.  Kind of low stress.  When you're hitting greens and rolling it up there to tap-ins, that's the easiest way to play this game.
Q. You had the troops on 18.  That had to be a great way to finish a great round, right, seeing all your buddies?
JOSH TEATER: Yeah, for sure.  You know, just to be here and kind of get momentum from all of them, I kind of feed off it.  It was great.
Q. How happy were you to get through before the horn?
JOSH TEATER: It was huge.  I saw kind of the note on the scoreboard, and I didn't even really think about it when I had that one-footer to tap in.  Sometimes you'll mark them; sometimes you won't, but I'm glad I tapped it in.
I can rest the rest of the day.
Q. How juiced were you after your eagle on 5?
JOSH TEATER: You know, pretty juiced.  It was a pretty simple putt.  Didn't really even see it not going in.  The next shot, to hit a really good slot on the next hole and give myself another chance was huge, too.
Q. What did you hit into 5?  It's a hard green.
JOSH TEATER: Today I had I think it was 226; hit my 4-hybrid.
Q. Did this morning's rain affect turf condition at all, play at all?
JOSH TEATER: Not really.  You couldn't really tell it rained much.  I didn't really see much mud again today.  Hopefully this thing will go north again and we can skirt it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT