FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2013
Josh Teater
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you put into context what this means to you? 
    JOSH TEATER:   I mean, it was a good finish.   I didn't play my best.   Usually I'm a good ball striker, good driver, and I didn't really have that.   But I've been working hard on my short game and my putting, and that's what kept me in it this week. 
    It was awesome to have a finish like this when you don't really feel like you're playing your best or maybe in the past I've put emphasis in other spots.   It just kind of opened my eyes to what I can continue working on.   This is my fourth year out here, so it's no fluke that I belong.   It's just taking the next step.

Q.   Are you already in Phoenix? 
    JOSH TEATER:   Yeah, yeah.   I'm fully exempt from last year on the money list.   So I was already in.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
    JOSH TEATER:   Yeah, for sure.   I've been going pretty good ever since‑‑ about (Indiscernible) last year kind of things turned around.   I had three straight Top 10s and contended in Canada and played well at Barclays and finished the year at Disney well, started at Sony well.   So it's a lot of good stuff that's going on, and I'll try to continue it.

Q.   What stood out most about this week? 
    JOSH TEATER:   Just patience.   A golf course like this, you have to have patient.   I mean, I chipped in for par on number 6, the first round after hitting a driver into the junk.   I could have easily been 2‑over at that point and fighting uphill.   But I was patient, hit a great shot.   It went in and just kept going.

Q.   Talk how many different weather conditions you had to fight in this tournament? 
    JOSH TEATER:   There were plenty.   We had rain, wind, nice weather.   We got a break Thursday.   It was supposed to rain then, but it was a test of the patience the whole week here.   I birdied that last one good.

Q.   To see the crowds out here today on Monday.   Are you surprised how big they were? 
    JOSH TEATER:   The crowds out here always surprise me.   Saturday out here we didn't even play golf and there were tons of people rolling in here.   None of us thought we'd be sitting around all day waiting, but they were out here having fun.   They were back out today.   It's a great place, a great venue, and the fans love it.

Q.   Do you think today's crowds are because it was free admission and free parking or because of what Tiger's doing? 
    JOSH TEATER:   I think it's a combo of both, for sure.   Any time you get to see guys come out and play, they like to do it even when they have to pay for their admission.   Obviously, it's free, so you might have gotten a few more out.   With him playing well, people like to come out and see that as well.

Q.   Josh, Nick said he didn't think anybody could beat Tiger this week just because of the number he put up.   Would you agree with that?
    JOSH TEATER:   I think somebody might have.   He obviously played really well.   I'm not really sure what he's doing right now.   I'm not focused on that.   But I think there are always guys that can make another putt or hole out.   But it's obviously great to see him playing well.   Hopefully, we can battle that one next.

Q.   Why is it great to see him play well?   Doesn't that make your job tougher?
    JOSH TEATER:   A little bit, yeah.   But obviously, I was two groups ahead of him yesterday, and he chipped in, I think, on number 4.   You could just tell, people went crazy.   People had whistles out there.   The crowds are just different when he's around.

Q.   And that's okay with you?   It's good? 
    JOSH TEATER:   Yeah, it's great for the game in general.   Not only us, but everybody that plays it.   We all grew up watching him.   We all want to give him a run for his money.

Q.   Do you think you did that? 
    JOSH TEATER:   I played pretty good.   I chipped and putted well coming down the stretch to hang in where I was.   I didn't have my best game off the tee, which put me, a lot of times I was playing defense, but I could have had a few more, for sure.

Q.   Just looking way, way down the line, the U.S. Open was given to Winged Foot for 2020.   Speculation is it might come back here in 2021.   What do you think of this place as a U.S. Open layout? 
    JOSH TEATER:   I mean, it's great.   This is one of the greatest courses around.   I have not been here for a U.S. Open, but I've heard you guys talk about it.   How great it was when the U.S. Open was here.   So I can definitely see it for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT