MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2000
Jane Geddes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JANE GEDDES:   Let me see, I birdied the 1st hole.  10, 2-putt.  11, hit it in the green-side bunker.  Made about a 10-footer for par.  12, 2-putt.  13, missed the green.  Chipped it up to about six feet; missed it.  I hit 4-iron, but  -- yeah, 4-iron.  14, I hit a 6-iron to about 12 feet and made that.  15, 2-putt.  16, I hit my second shot right up the front of the green and chipped up to like an inch or some so.  Almost went in and made birdie.  And then 17, I hit a 7-iron 168 yards right in the hole.  I hit a good shot, by the way, I want you to put that in; I did hit a good shot, right where I aimed it.  Hit it solid, just the flight that it went; it bounced in the hole.  18, 2-putt.  1, I hit an 8-iron to about 10 feet for birdie.  2, 2-putt.  3, 2-putt.  4, I made a great par there.  I hit it  -- I didn't hit a good drive.  I hit it behind the tree on the right, and to hit it over the tree, caught the tree, I was about 30 yards short of the green and hit a really good chip.  I didn't think I could get it that close.  I hit it to about a foot and made that for par .  5, I hit it in the bunker, and hit it out of the bunker didn't make the putt; so I bogeyed.  6, 2-putt, par.  7, 2-putt, par.  8, I hit a 7-wood to about 20 feet; made that for birdie.  And 9, I hit a sand wedge to about six feet; made that for birdie. 
 
Q.  How far was the sand wedge shot on 9? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   84 yards out of a divot.  
 
Q.  How many holes-in-one have you had on the Tour? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   Two or three, I think.  Three, actually.  
 
Q.  Were you playing pretty well before the ace, and did that really kick-start your round?
 
JANE GEDDES:   Yeah, I was playing okay.  I got off to kind of a little funny start.  I was nervous.  I really have not been playing very much, honestly, and I came here with the goal in mind to have fun and enjoy this week, a major, on a golf course I like, and whatever happens, happens.  I told my caddy that before I got here the other day.  And after about three holes today, he said to me, "Why are you so serious?"  I said, "Am I serious?"  "If you say you're going to have some fun, let's have some fun."  And then I proceeded to birdie the next hole.  And a few holes later, I had a hole-in-one.   And I had a ball today.  It's been a long time since I've had fun on the golf course. 
 
Q.  Why have you not been having much fun?
 
JANE GEDDES:   I've been putting a lot of pressure on myself.  I haven't played much golf.  I haven't practiced much.  I'm starting an Internet company.  I've been busy and trying to figure out how to make a transition from this life to that life, and not being very successful at  -- at transitioning.  I just  -- haven't been very happy out here, and always want to be doing something with the business, and not being out here and not playing well when I'm out here.   I took a couple weeks off, and decided if I'm going to be out here, I'm going to at least enjoy myself.  I love playing golf.  I love being inside the ropes.  You know, let's at least have a little fun. 
 
Q.  In this transition phase, going to this Internet company, has your practice suffered? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   Honestly, the dirt on my clubs coming in here on Tuesday was from Myrtle Beach.  That was how many weeks ago?  It wasn't from San  Diego, where I live.   I've really  -- it's been kind of strange, but it's been good in that, you know, I'm very excited about what I'm doing off the course.  And I've been doing this for a long time, 17 years of kind of grinding it out out here.  There comes a time where you have to kind of make a decision, and not that I've made any decision.  It was kind of ironic, because, you know, thinking all this  -- thinking how to make this transition, how many tournaments will I play in the year, and now I'm out there leading a major.  It's silly, but anyway. 
 
Q.  What's your caddy's name?
 
JANE GEDDES:   Dan Saleb.  
 
Q.  How tough is the course playing?
 
JANE GEDDES:   It's playing tough.  It's playing as tough as I've ever  -- for being dry, even though it was damp, it was dry, compared to the other years when it was really, really yucky wet.  It's playing as tough as it can play, but it's in great condition.  You feel like if you can hit the ball well and get on the greens and not make too many errors, you'll play well, and have a little good fortune as well. 
 
Q.  Like a U.S. Open course?
 
JANE GEDDES:   I like when pars are good scores.  I generally play well when courses are tough and pars are good scores.  We play a lot of courses out here that everybody is shooting a zillion under, and that's great.  It's great for the Tour and great for people to be able to shoot a zillion under, but that doesn't necessarily suit my game all the time; I'm definitely better on more difficult golf courses.  Over the years I've kind of -- that's sort of historically where I've played well. 
 
Q.  When was the last time you contended at a major? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   I don't even know.  I played well this year at Dinah and then had a bad Saturday.  You know, I honestly  -- I have not played the majors well in so long.  I really have not.  I probably played the best here  -- I would say I have a chance to contend here more than anywhere.  But I have played poorly at the Open in the last few years, and just  -- but a lot of that is putting a lot of pressure on myself.  I want to play well at majors, everybody does.  And having played well at majors before, you think, "Oh, I've got a head up on everybody because I played well."  Well, that was a long time ago.  The more pressure you put on yourself, the harder it gets, and there's where I've been the last few years.  
 
Q.  Can you tell us about your company?
 
JANE GEDDES:   The name of it is Planesia.  The tag line is:  Plan your amnesia.  Which makes sense.  It's PLANESIA.COM.  We are -- in technical terms, it's actually a software company.  It started as a Web site last year, and I'm a co-founder.  The other founder and I realized we had something really valuable, technology, that people have built into us and it's morphed into a software company and infrastructure commerce platform.  What we do in short is -- for those of you that know what a portal is and have shopped on-line is, or whatever, when you go shop at a portal that goes GOLF.COM, WOMEN.COM portals with all this content, a lot of times now, when you go shopping, say, you want to buy a book and you happen to be on that site and you click on a Barnes & Noble link.  It will take you to Barnes & Noble.  Now you're gone; you're away from the portal now.  This portal has paid all this money for you to stay, and you're gone and you're shopping.  We've built this technology that keeps you shopping in a portal.  When you check out, you check out from multiple sites, multiple addresses, multiple credit cards, all these things, giving recurring revenue for the portal.  It has a lot of value and it's very, very techy.  
 
Q.  You made it very easy for people to spend more money.
 
JANE GEDDES:   It's really just, you know, just part of the whole, the e-retailing kind of craze where, you know, it's sort of like running to the races and try to do something really quick and fast that nobody is doing.  That's sort of where we are right now.  We've got 20 employees and just about to hire seven more, busting out of an office;moving into a new office as we speak, that I'm missing.  There's other stuff going in on in my life that's -- so far ... 
 
Q.  When did you get smitten by this computer thing?
 
JANE GEDDES:   I've had a computer for a long time, but a friend of mine called me year ago and said, "I have this Internet idea, do you want to help me with it?"  And I said, yeah, sure.  What do I know?  So we started from nothing.  And at that time it was just going to be a gift site with a little twist to it.  The twist was that you could plan all your gift ordering; so if you wanted to order all of your gifts for the year, whatever you wanted to do, you could do it in one sitting and we would place the orders for you at the appropriate time.  But nobody was doing that on the Internet.  We thought that was a great idea so we started building this Web site and build this technology.  And like I said it turned out this technology was really valuable that we had, potential patent on and stuff.  It was sort of lucky. 
 
Q.  How tough was it to leave the golf behind and get this started?  Was it tough? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   It's real tough.  I'm still trying to figure out exactly what to do.  Honestly, I don't know how many tournaments I've played this year.  Maybe 13 or 14 tournaments.  And I started off the year with this great outlook that, you know, I was going to be able to do both things, and I was.  I was successful.  I started out playing really well, then it started getting tough and as things started getting busier with the company and the worse I played out here, the more I wanted to play at home being a part of that.  I was like, I'm wasting my time out here, I might as well be at home.  It starts this boat-rocking, which is terrible.  I think I've come to grips with that right, now and realize that when I'm out here, I have to be focused on what I'm doing out here. 
 
Q.  And what is your position in the company?
 
JANE GEDDES:   Founder.  
 
Q.  Do they have a bust of you up in the lobby? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   They will, soon.  As soon as we make our first dollar. 
 
Q.  Do you think that you can still keep having fun, though, now that  --
 
JANE GEDDES:   No, I don't.  I'm having a great day today.  I'm on a roll. (Laughs). I don't know, you know, I hope I can.  I want to be able to.  That's my goal.  My goal is to come out here and have fun, and I enjoy being inside the ropes.  I don't know how much longer.  This might be the last day I ever lead a major, and I'm out there thinking about that; that's what's making me smile.  I'm out there thinking, "Enjoy this day."  I mean, who knows?  Who knows?  Nobody knows. 
 
Q.  You are not the only player who is a 40-something golfer who is playing well here today.  That has to mean something.  In your opinion, what does that mean?  Is it the golf course or anything of that nature?
 
JANE GEDDES:   Yeah, I think there's something to be had  -- the players you're talking about enjoy playing difficult golf courses.  I think Pat and I saw Betsy on the board.  I think it's  you feel that you can rise to the occasion.  You don't feel like you have to make a zillion birdies.  Just depend on your game; go out there and strike the ball well enough to hit the greens, and make a couple putts.  You can be right there.  When 1-under is on the board or 2-under is on the board, it just seems easier to look at, than I've played one round of golf and 7-under is the last score on the board and everybody else is like a million under.  It just seems easier that way. 
 
Q.  Did you have any thoughts 1987 in Cincinnati and '86 in Dayton, those two majors?
 
JANE GEDDES:   Did I think about that today?  
 
Q.  No.  Say, now, is there any comparison or anything in the feelings, I know it is a different place and a different time, a long time. 
 
JANE GEDDES:   I try to pull up those feelings all the time.  I mean, honestly, whenever I'm playing well, I try to pull up those feelings.  I really, really do and I think everybody does.  Those are the times you remember the most, and those are the times that were greatest in my career -- a year and a half, however long it was, I try to pull up those feelings of when I was out there enjoying what I'm doing.  I was reflecting back, thinking it's been a long, long time since I've been in that position; so enjoy it. 
 
Q.  Now that you're older, do you have a different preparation or a different feeling about those times? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   Yeah, I do.  I wish I would have appreciated it more when I was doing it.  I appreciate it much more now, and I understand the value of winning the U.S. Open and winning the Championship like 10 times more than when I was doing it then.  When I won the Open, it was my first tournament and I just  -- you know it's like, "Oh, well here we go."  Won the very next week.  It was too easy.  So, you know I reflect back now and I  -- I definitely appreciate those much, much more.  
 
Q.  Have you ever been as loose in a major on the golf in an early round ever? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   No.  I was stressed out the first three holes today and then my caddy said,  "You said you wanted to have fun, and look, you're so serious."  And I really didn't realize I was serious; I just got into that mode right away.  Got into the major mode:  I've got to be serious, hit every shot perfect, because everybody is hitting them perfect.  I know better than that.  Not everybody is hitting them perfect. 
 
Q.  How much would it mean to you to win this? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   It would just be over the top.  I mean, it really would be.  For me to win another major right now would be  -- and then I could quit.  Then I could just say:  All right.  Then I'd be happy.  If I win any tournament right now, I would be happy.  I really would like to win again before I decide that, okay, you know, I'm going to stop playing.  And I'm not saying I'm stopping playing right now, but I'm staying that I'm making a transition, and that I'm, you know, I'm cutting back a little bit.  I'm doing different things.  
 
Q.  You don't expect to be out here five to ten years more? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   I expect to be playing, but not a full schedule like I've been  -- I mean, I've played for the last 17 years.  I've played full, full schedules.  
 
Q.  You said you haven't practiced much, but how about the conditioning?  Do you have a conditioning program? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   I get on the treadmill when I'm at home, and I kind of stay  -- so I'm walking, kind of stay in shape a little bit.  I'm not in as good of shape as I probably could be, but part of that is just not enough hours in the day when I'm at home.  Right now, I'm very, very busy. 
 
Q.  How many zillions are you hoping to make from this venture? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   Just one zillion would be good.  I don't know, you know, the Internet world is so crazy, who knows what's going to happen.  I feel very fortunate.  I feel like I've gotten my Masters this year in doing this.  That has been a success in itself.  Just learning as much as  -- whatever comes from it is great, but the one thing I do know is that the Tour is always going to be here and I'm always -- no matter what, I can always go back to playing golf and hopefully go back to it playing pretty well. 
 
Q.  What's the longest you've ever set the clubs aside for? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   Last year, I didn't play for like a month and a half, which was pretty long.  But in between  -- right now, like I said, I didn't play for two weeks.  And that's a pretty long time before a major not to play, I have to be honest. 
 
Q.  What did you study in school? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   Business. 
 
Q.  When you work a full work week at the  -- on the site, is that 60 -, 70 -, 80-hour week?
 
JANE GEDDES:   Pretty long days.  I have now figured out why people like Saturdays.  I never knew.  I never understood that because we're working on Saturdays, Sundays and when Saturday comes now, and I'm at home, Friday afternoon, I can't wait.  
 
Q.  It was mentioned here earlier that you kept Amy Alcott out of the Hall of Fame with one of your victories. 
 
JANE GEDDES:   Made a 25-footer on the 17th hole.  I thought that was the most bittersweet win I'd ever had.  The first thing I said to Amy when I got in the tent was  -- I felt really terrible.  It was nice to win, but it was a funny win it was really kind of strange.  
 
Q.  Is it hard to swallow that you have not won in six years?
 
JANE GEDDES:   Yeah, it has been.  I think about that probably too much, actually.  I don't think about it as much anymore as I used to, but it's tough.  It's tough to go so long without winning one.  I won so much in the years prior to that.  
 
Q.  Will you know how it feels when you tee it up tomorrow?  Will it come back? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   Yeah, I hope so.  I was thinking about that today.  I was, you know, I was kind of thinking in the next couple days, I'm really, really going to try to enjoy every moment of this.  Whatever happens, happens right now.  Who knows?  Golf is so strange.  You know, I have no expectations right now and that might be the best way to go and play for me right now.  Who knows?  I'm find out in the next three days. 
 
Q.  But it is different, isn't it, when you lead a golf tournament?  You have to have a different feeling, a different attitude? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   Yeah, I'm kind of looking at it as the first quarter:  I've got a long way to go, I have 54 holes to go, and this is just the beginning.  I'm going to try  -- when I was at 3-under today I thought to myself, okay, I have a couple tough holes to go, and keep building on this lead; don't worry about today; don't worry about finishing today in the lead or finishing today at whatever.  Just keep building on it.  And that's really the attitude I want to take the next three days.  There's a long way to go, and everybody is going to be bunched up all week here.  I guarantee it.   I don't think anybody will jump out to a lead, not with this course the way it's playing.  It will come down to the last nine holes on Sunday. 
 
Q.  Was there anything that kept you from building on that late 80's success? 
 
JANE GEDDES:   You know, what I think really  -- really, I took it for granted.  I thought I was going to do it forever, and I think that's one thing that I  -- if I can give advice to anyone of any of the younger players, which I do, I'm friends with enough that are playing well -- the only thing I always say is enjoy it, enjoy while it's happening, because the moment you least expect it, all of the sudden you can't do it anymore.  Not that you can't do it, you can do it, but you don't.  And that's a weird feeling.  It's a weird feeling when you're cruising along and you're thinking:  I'm going to do this for the rest of my life, I'm going to play exactly like this forever, somebody like Karrie or Annika or those guys.  It's phenomenal, but history has it that you just don't play like that forever.  
 
Q.  The 9th hole has traditionally played under par.  Today in the morning session it played over par, a number of 7s and 8s.  The extra yardage on that, did you find anything that much different about the hole?
 
JANE GEDDES:   No.  It was downwind when I got there, but the most difficult thing for us, was we had never seen that pin.  For players, when you play a golf course over and over, I pretty much know where they are going to put all the pins, and all of the sudden there's a different pin and you have never putted to that pin before, so...  And I think it was a little speedy around that hole and I think  -- I know Cindy and Jackie, they both hit it by the hole unexpectedly, and they were not very far away.  I think it was on a little funny place there.  It was downwind, it's a three-shot hole from back there.  You hit it out there, you hit it up.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT