U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2010
Tom Kite
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Two straight 69s.   
 TOM KITE: Yeah, well, you know so much of it depends on what Freddy and Bernhard do. They're obviously playing really well.   
 The golf course is just unbelievably difficult, it's not giving up any good scores, I mean, 69 is about all you can hope for.   
 You know, you don't have to miss it very badly at all and you can just get tattooed. Wonderful golf course, you know, I -- I wish we played more stuff like this, I really do. This is fun golf. It's hard golf, you know, it beats ya up, but, oh, boy, you really have to work and you have to think and you pay attention. And I enjoy it because I think it just increases the concentration level, it has to. If you're not concentrating you're going to make bogeys and doubles.   
  
  Q. What about 65?   
 TOM KITE: Who shot 65?   
  
  Q. I'm projecting.   
 TOM KITE: You're dreaming.   
  
  Q. How many under is Freddy?   
 TOM KITE: 5 right now? He drove it up on the hill in the last hole. 65 is an unbelievable score, golf course doesn't give up any good scores, really doesn't.   
  
  Q. What do you have to do tomorrow if you're 3, 4, 5 behind --  
 TOM KITE: 3 or 4 is not much on this golf course. I mean, honestly you can play a very good round of golf and shoot 73 or 74 just in a heartbeat, I mean, it's nothin'. And I'm not kiddin' and really play well! 3 or 4 shots on a golf course like this is not much at all.   
 Obviously I can't shoot 73 and win, you know, I'm going to have to play another good score, but at least I've got myself in a position, there are only a couple of guys in front of me and we'll just see how much in front of me they are.   
  
  Q. Tom, the hole locations --  
 TOM KITE: God, they're hard.   
  
  Q. Were they hard again today?   
 TOM KITE: Yeah, the pin placements -- the greens were microscopically softer today. I think somebody went out there and spit on the greens a little bit! (Laughter.) They were a little softer today than they had been but I mean the pin placements are unbelievable. I mean, you know, they're right on the -- pushin' the edge.   
 It's kinda like this is the general area where you think the pin is going to be but you think it's going to be there and it's three feet that way and that three feet is huge in some cases.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 TOM KITE: Yeah, you get the slopes or right close to the edge. I mean, pin placement on 11 today, par-5, unbelievable pin placement, you know, it's up on that plateau, but it's only just on the plateau, three feet back is where I thought the pin would be, not where it was. I think the pin placements are incredibly difficult.   
  
  Q. Tom, what about the difference in the Crooked Stick last summer?   
 TOM KITE: You would probably have to ask them but I was sayin' today and yesterday, this is kinda like a little bit of "Massacre at Winged Foot Syndrome," they don't want any low scores. But this is how it should be, this really is.   
 I don't know what happened to Crooked Stick last year. Freddy played obviously very, very well, and a lot of guys did, Tim Jackson and a number of guys played well, but you don't expect that kind of score there. This is how it should be.   
  
  Q. Your game in general, a little bit of everything you're doing okay?   
 TOM KITE: I'm really kinda struggling with my ball strikin' a little bit, chipping and putting very well right now, but, you know, I'm a little inconsistent with my ball striking, so I need to have a good one tomorrow with it.   
  
  Q. Tom, you're putting well with the long putter, Bernhard seems to be great at belly putting today, how long did it take --  
 TOM KITE: It was almost instantaneous for me, no adjustment at all, going on five years now or -- I'm just about to start my fifth year with it and I wish I'd have putted that way a long time ago.   
  
  Q. Would you compare long putting, 30 or 40 feet with conventional -- with the long putter?   
 TOM KITE: I'm better on all putting with the long putter. At one time I was a good putter with the short putter and then at one time I was really, really a bad putter with the short putter and now I'm very good with the long putter.   
  
  Q. Did you experiment with the belly putter?   
 TOM KITE: I experimented with it a couple of weeks.   
  
  Q. What was the difference?   
 TOM KITE: The first week I used a belly putter I won a tournament and the next week I was so bad I never picked it up again.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 TOM KITE: I'm not working on that one. Thank you guys.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT