LIBERTY MUTUAL LEGENDS OF GOLF
April 22, 2007
Tom Kite
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   PHIL STAMBAUGH:  An exciting day, first playoff in the Liberty Mutual Legends Of golf since 1998, and an exciting day for the Champions Tour.  Just a couple thoughts about your round.  It was exciting coming down the stretch. 
 TOM KITE:  Yeah, there was any number of guys that could have won.  You know, everybody kind of gave up a few opportunities coming down the stretch and those last holes are hard.  It's hard to par the 17th and 18th holes.  Those are very difficult holes.  And getting into the house is tough in a situation like that.  I got on the 18th green, it's almost impossible to hit, and certainly really difficult to get it close to the hole. 
 So you know, it's a lot of hanging on coming down the stretch, and I did a pretty good job of hanging in there and finishing out.  Just didn't do it in the -- I had two good putts on 18 in the playoff, and then just had one little misread there on 18. 
 But you know, Jay obviously played well and did some good stuff.  Like you said, it was an exciting day for the Champions Tour, a lot of names up there.  When you have good courses set up difficult, you get the top names up there, so that's good stuff. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Your birdie putt on 16 in regulation? 
 TOM KITE:  Yeah, I guess maybe 16 or 17 feet. 

 Q.  Which did you misread, the first putt or the second putt on 18? 
 TOM KITE:  Actually both of them.  The putt, I had to come over that hill and I knew it was going to go left coming over the hill and it did, but it -- I was shocked at how much it went right once it got over the hill.  At the top of the hill it just kept going further and further right.  Obviously it gets by the hole and now I'm thinking it's a right, inside-edge putt. 
 I can't wait to see the replay of that because I really felt like I hit a solid putt there that I thought started inside right and missed.  It missed on the right-hand side.  Like I said I can't wait to see it on the tape but I felt good on it. 

 Q.  Struck by how calmly you're able to sit here and talk about it after moments of what would have been a devastating -- 20 years ago would you have been this way? 
 TOM KITE:  I think I would have been this way.  You're not looking at the inside.  You're looking at my outside.  I'm not as cool inside right now. 

 Q.  That was a great putt you made to finish in regulation. 
 TOM KITE:  Yeah, I really felt like I putted well all day today.  You have to in a situation like this.  This is a golf course that is -- again, they really did a great job with pin placement.  They put them in really difficult positions, and you know, right on some edges and so no matter how well you hit it, you're going to have some putts coming back for pars that you're going to have to make and it was tough to make some birdie putts because you're sometimes coming up and over ridges. 
 So I was very pleased with putting.  My putting in regulation was pure. 

 Q.  What did you hit into the playoff hole? 
 TOM KITE:  8-iron.  Just one of those, it's a perfect club, I know it is, but even hitting an 8-iron into that green, if you land it if you land it over that hill, you take a chance ongoing over the green.  And somehow I lost Jay's ball.  You know, his second shot, I never saw it.  Sandy wasn't watching so she didn't see it.  I kind of had no clue where it was but I had -- you know, there was no indication from the gallery that it was any good, so I knew it wasn't a very good, but I didn't know where the thing was.  My thought was just try to land it just over the ridge and if it goes, then that's fine. 
 So it was just kind of a nice, comfortable 8-iron and I didn't hit it quite as solidly as I wanted to and kind of ballooned it a little bit and came up just short of the ridge, but wouldn't have been a bad play. 

 Q.  How far was it from the pin at that point? 
 TOM KITE:  I don't know.  You'd have to look at ShotLink.  40 feet, 30 feet, 50 feet. 

 Q.  Your putting generally; you're happier with it this year? 
 TOM KITE:  Yeah, I'm putting very well right now.  I guess I was probably Top-10 in putting this week.  I don't know that for a fact, but I would think I was. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Okay, Tom.  Thanks. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT