CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
October 29, 2006
Tom Kite
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  You finished 15 under.  Give us a quick rundown and we'll get some questions.
TOM KITE:  Well, I played really well today.  I made two bogeys and didn't birdie the easiest hole on the golf course.  The two Par 5s killed me out there today.  Just really played great today.  So different than how I played yesterday.  I was really excited and encouraged with the way I played.  Had a great opportunity to win this golf tournament.

To make a 6 on No. 8 and not birdie 13 after putting it just off the front edge of the green in two.

You know, and then not birdying 13.  Which was 4  or 5 iron not green on the second shot.  If he hit if in the fairway.  Hit it plenty far down and had a horrible lie in the rough.  Those are the things that lost the tournament for me, but I played really well.

Obviously, I knew I was going to have to play well.  There were a lot of guys that were doing some great things.  Thorpy was playing well with two shot lead.  Jay I expected to play well, and Loren, and a number of other guys.  So I know I had to play well and shoot a good score.  Came out firing, but just a little bit is short.
Q.  You had a one shot lead.  You were 15 and Thorpe was 15 and then you missed the hole.
TOM KITE:  That's when I drove it in the rough.
Q.  Yeah.
TOM KITE:  Like I said, that was definitely a birdie, if not an eagle hole.  And it's the only the fairway I missed all day.  The ball landed in the fairway and kicked dead right of the rough and had a horrific lie.  Not only was it the only fairway I missed all day, I drove it so good today.  But that one hurt bigtime.
Q.  (Inaudible.)  Do things like this hurt as much after 35 or 30 years
TOM KITE:  I mean, I've played this golf course, and this tournament has been an exceptional tournament for me through the years, and yet I haven't won it.  And to play that well in this season ending tournament in the Charles Schwab Cup, practically every year come out here and just feel like I really understand this golf course and I really play the golf course well and I like it a lot, and to, you know, to come up just that short yeah, it hurts a little bit.

Obviously, my congrats to Thorpe.  Thorpy played great every day.  And, you know, you just know you're going to have to go low in this golf course.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TOM KITE:  You know, he's got a swing that works for him.  He's a big, strong man, and he's found a way to drive the ball very well and put it in the fairway.  He plays well.  You know, guys our age don't necessarily have textbook swings.  We didn't grow up with computers.  Now everything looks alike.  But there were a lot of very unique swings out there.
THE MODERATOR:  You guys okay.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT