CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
October 27, 2006
Tom Kite
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Tom, another 67.  Yesterday 68.  Maybe just give us a quick recap on your day.
TOM KITE:  Yeah.  I mean, I really played well today.  I hit a couple of errant in shots in the middle part of the back 9.  I made some good saves on those that I    I made some air in shots and some really good swings on the the last two holes and made bogeys on the those with some shots that didn't turn out as well as I thought.  Had some good things happen as well.

The hole out on 11.  What are the odds.  Just crazy stuff to have that happen.  But all in all just really pleased with where my game is right now.  I'm hitting the ball solidly and I feel like I'm playing well.  I'm putting well.  So a lot of good things going on right now.
THE MODERATOR:  Birdies.  Start on the No. 2.  Yeah.
TOM KITE:  Yeah.  Drove it in the right rough there.  Hit the second shot in the right rough and then played a great shot up out of the right rough with an 8 iron about probably three feet, and made that for birdie.

And then birdied 8 and 9.  Hit a good drive on 8 and it was just off the left side of the green.  Played a nice little flop wedge about 8 feet and made that.

9, I hit a sand wedge about oh, probably 12 feet.  Maybe    yeah, 12, 13 feet there; made that.

Hole out on 11.  I had 70     I want to say 74 yards, I think is what    what did they say?
THE MODERATOR:  Let's see, I have to look it up.  I looked at it.
TOM KITE:  I think I hit 76 yards.  Yeah, that's what it was.  L wedge, yeah.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TOM KITE:  119 was on 10.  I had 98 there yesterday and today is a little downwind and got a little bit closer to the green.

And knocked it on the Par 5, 13 and 2 hit good 3 wood there and 2 putted from probably 45 feet.  And then had a good save on the Par 3.  I kind of caught my club    you know how you kind of catch it on the grass and it throws you off.  I hit a lousy 4 iron there in the bunker.  I had to get a good bunker shot out.

16, I tried it hit a hot hook off the tee and I hooked it up into the trees.  Hit a nice shot out into the fairway and thought I had a beautiful little 7 iron down the hill and came up short in the rough.  So I chipped it past probably about 7 feet.  What did they say?
THE MODERATOR:  What hole?
TOM KITE:  16.
THE MODERATOR:  65 inches.
TOM KITE:  Well, I've always want to    makes me sound like a better putter if I exaggerate the distance.

So I made a 7 footer there for par.  Bogeyed the last two holes.  Hit a beautiful 8 iron right over the flag and right over the green.  Misjudged the wind there and chipped up probably 8, 9 feet.  Hit a good putt there, but missed.

Hit 2 wood off the tee on 18, just trying to play out there safe.  The ball must have hit really hard.  I think it's 285 through the fairway on that line and the ball rolled six inches into the high stuff where I couldn't play.  Unfortunate Bogey there.  But all in all, expect for a couple of holes, a really good round.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TOM KITE:  Yeah.  I've done some putting on that green.  You know in the practice rounds and everything, but that is really strange to have 3    strange to have 3 eagles in a tournament much less in the first few rounds and all of them on Par 4s.  That's pretty cool stuff.
Q.  I looked it up today and did some research, and the last time a guy made two eagles on Par 4s was '99.  Larry Ziegler did, so it's been over 7 years since it happened.
TOM KITE:  Wow.
Q.  Given that it was the same hole that you holed out on yesterday and today it looked like it rolled much longer.
TOM KITE:  Again, we're down in the fairway and you can't see anything like that.  But I knew the pin was 11, and we have 12 to the base of the hill.  And then you've got that slope going up there.  And so I knew I had this beautiful back stop that I could use, and it was just , you know a nice L wedge up there for me.  Max out on that thing is 80 yards.  So I had 76 yards.  It was a little bit uphill but a little downwind.  Nice comfortable shot there.

And you know, knowing the way the slope is I figured if I could get it a little bit left of the pin it's going to come back in that direction.  And, yeah, you just tell from the gallery that it was getting very, very close.  And then all of a sudden they erupted.  So it was nice    I hope that goes on for a long time.  I'd like to have a couple more the next couple days.
Q.  As well as you hit it and as much as you knew you had the (indiscernible) to hear that crowd roar again for the second time on the same hole
TOM KITE:  Yeah, I mean you hit good shots, but the odds of going in are remote.  I don't know what the odds are of making hole in ones, but it's a little less hitting wedges.  You should have a little bit better chance of making them.

But still, to do that, yeah, it's probably been longer than '99 since a guy made back to back eagles on the same par 4.  That'll give you something to do tonight.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TOM KITE:  Okay.  So I've been upstaged.
Q.  There was a Masters in the '90s where Nicklaus made two on the 5th hole, the mid '90s when
TOM KITE:  Yeah, I remember that.
Q.  Have you ever made eagles on a Par 4 on consecutive rounds that you can remember?
TOM KITE:  Not that I can remember.  No, I don't think so.
Q.  Is there something about that hole
TOM KITE:  No, not really.  I mean, actually today was a pretty easy pin placement.  Because like I said, you got the back stop.  You know, when they put the pin up on the top tier, you know, it's a little bit more difficult.  And, you know, I got fortunate both days, but very fortunate yesterday with the tougher pin placement.

But today a lot of things can happen because you can make it going and coming as it's going up there or as it comes back.  So I would imagine there were a lot of them.  That pin today on 11 was similar to the pin on 9 yesterday.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TOM KITE:  Yeah, I would think so.  I would think so.
Q.  Both Jay and Loren had good rounds to get within striking distance today.  Sets up for a great weekend, doesn't it?
TOM KITE:  Yeah.  I don't think that's a huge surprise that they played well.  I don't think it's a surprise that Thorpy is there.  There's been some outstanding golf played this year, really has.  And, yeah, it's going to be a shoot out, barn burner the next couple days.  You know, the golf course is really, really good.  But it's giving up some scores.

You got the Par 5s that are all fairly reachable, and you can take advantage of those.  With the golf course in this good of shape, there ought to be some birdies and some nice long putts made, and possibly some chip shots that have a chance to go in.  So it's going to be an exciting next couple days.
Q.  As well as you played today to bogey the last two holes and come back to the pack a little bit, is it frustrating
TOM KITE:  Yeah, it's a frustrating round.  To play those shots as well    you know, it's just part of the game.  Sometimes good shots turn out poorly.  You know, they don't turn out as well as you'd like for them to.  That happens.

You know, I've misclubbed a couple of times, I guess.  I don't think that    I can't imagine that 3 wood.  I don't know what that thing did on 18.  That can't be the wrong club.  But maybe I just hit the wrong club on 17.

Sometimes you just get gusts going the wrong direction.
Q.  Do you wish you had those two shots back?
TOM KITE:  Yeah, do wish I had those two shots back?  Darn right.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TOM KITE:  No.  Exactly.  I remember mean, you know
Q.  (Inaudible.)
TOM KITE:  It's kind of like the round we were talking about yesterday.  I felt like I should have shot a 67, but certainly not the way I did.  Because I didn't make the putts yesterday, but yet I had the hole outs and the good stuff like that.  Today it's the same thing.  I probably should have shot, you know, 67, 68.  Maybe could have been a little bit better.

Probably not a hole out, but probably shouldn't have bogeyed the last two holes.
Q.  Tough golf course?

THE WITNESS:  That's why it drives us crazy.  We all hate it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT