BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 10, 2005
Tom Kite
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.
Q.  How did you do today?
TOM KITE:  I played okay.  You know, a couple under today, to go with 3 under yesterday.  5 under, in decent shape.  Pleased with how I'm playing, pleased with how I'm putting.  Just got a lot more to go.

Golf course is giving up some pretty good scores.  The soft conditions, the rain that started we had on Monday night, got three or four inches of rain on the golf course, it just softened the golf course up enough to where the golf course is playing easier than you expect Congressional to play.  Looks like maybe 1 under or even par, it's going to take that to make the cut.  You don't expect that at a golf course this strong.
Q.  What are your personal memories of this course?
TOM KITE:  Oh, gosh, well, goes back to when they first moved the Kemper up here.  Boy, it was a long, hard golf course at that time.  They have since redone it, made some changes, added some tees, redone a number of greens, and in my opinion improved the golf course an awful lot.  I think it's just outstanding.

The one thing that's interesting about Congressional, when you come here, you don't really know what golf course you are going to play, though. You know, I think it's about time they settled on a golf course and said, "All right, this is the golf course that is Congressional."  When you come to a major championship, that's the one you're going to expect to play.

But, you know, any way they configure it, it's an outstanding test.
Q.  What do you think of a par 3 finish?
TOM KITE:  Well, I think that's probably the one drawback to the golf course.  You know, the 15th hole, as we're playing it right now, is a great finishing hole.  Unfortunately, with that lake behind the green, there's not room for all the spectator amenities that you need in a finishing hole like that.  So I can understand why they did it.  But finishing on a par 3 is kind of a strange feeling.
Q.  Anti climactic?
TOM KITE:  You still have to hit on the green, make a putt.  Whoever wins has to hit some great shots.
Q.  Got to be pleased so far, though?
TOM KITE:  I'm pleased with how I played, yeah.  The last month or so, I've been playing a lot better.  It's finally starting to show in some reasonable scores.
Q.  Does it change at all your thoughts about maybe not playing on the PGA TOUR?  I know you said maybe midway through the season you'd reevaluate.
TOM KITE:  Well, you know, we kind of have to get through the US Open.  I knew exactly what I was going to do then.  But we've got a lot of major championships coming up on the Champions Tour that are going to occupy some time.  Obviously I'm going to try to qualify for the British Open and hopefully we'll be successful in that attempt.

You know, with the Ford Senior Players Championship and the Senior British Open and the Senior US Open, all those coming up in very short order, I've got some work to do out there, too.
Q.  What was the biggest factor in deciding to play this event?  Was it that it was at Congressional or it was because it was the week before The Open?
TOM KITE:  Well, both of those.  Obviously having it at Congressional helped, but I knew I was going to be qualifying for the US Open over at Rockville.  Didn't do as well over there as I had hoped, would not be going down to Pinehurst.  But still this was a great place to come and attempt a golf round.
Q.  Will a good week here make up for the sting of not going to Pinehurst?
TOM KITE:  Well, a good week here, you know, is always nice.  I mean, wherever you're playing, you want to have a good week.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT