U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2002
Tom Kite
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A lot of birdies?
TOM KITE:  At least two.  Too many bogeys.  I wasn't sharp this week from tee-to-green.  I fought with the driver all week, and this is not a golf course where you can hit some errant drives and expect to score very well.  There were some encouraging things that came out of the week, I putted better than I have for a long, long time.  So that's encouraging for the rest of the year.  But it is very disconcerting to play so inconsistently as I did.  As you said, I made a ton of birdies.  But I was all over the golf course with way too many bogeys.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
TOM KITE:  No question.  That's the day that I hit the ball the worst.  I wasn't sharp the other three days, but Saturday was terrible.  I really was not able to have any feel for my swing at all on that day and subsequently, made five birdies and still shot 2 over par.  That's not typical Tom Kite golf.

Q.  You have to take heart with the fact that you have 7-under par on this golf course?
TOM KITE:  Well, I thought a score of 6 to 8-under would probably win the golf tournament: I think if we hadn't had that rain earlier in the week to soften it up, that would have been the winning score.  You have to hand it to Tom and Don, they've done some amazing things out there.

Q.  How surprised were you with the low scores this week?
TOM KITE:  As I said, the rain is what did it.  I was predicting 6 to 8-under, and it's going to be ten.  That's not a whole lot lower than what I was predicting.

Q.  I saw you standing over that downhill putt on 14, there.  You were 7-under at that time?
TOM KITE:  I really -- and I hit that putt as good as I've ever hit a putt in my life.  I thought it was going to go a little left off the ridge, and back right, and it looked like it was hanging in there pretty good and just dove right at the last.  And then, I hit a good come back putt on 15, and those two putts right there could have put me in the playoff, for sure.

Q.  I heard you kidding with a police officer yesterday about impersonating a golfer?
TOM KITE:  I was so bad yesterday.  But fortunately I was a little better today. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT