FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2000
Tom Kite
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TOM KITE: It was a little soft this morning, and this golf course, you could tell
already that they had watered it, because it tends to dry out, and I guess the ball really
goes a lot of times here. You get those greens bouncing a little bit and the fairways
running, and you can put it into some trouble. But caught it early this morning, third
group out, and it was nice. The greens were holding and able to shoot some -- hit some
shots right at the flags and came up with a decent score. No wind as you -- there's
probably more wind blowing in this media room right now than there is on the golf course.
It's really a benign day out there. You know, still, it's a good golf course, and I'm
very, very pleased. 

TOM KITE: Yeah, I birdied the 2nd hole. Hit 9-iron in about four or five feet there.
No. 5, a little short hole, I hit 9-iron there, also, about six feet. Then birdied No. 7,
the par 5. Hit 3-wood just off the left side of the green, and almost had to putt a little
flop shot; and almost holed it out and went by about seven feet and I made that. Bogeyed
No. 8. Hit 6-iron and pulled it into the left bunker. Had a tough bunker shot and blasted
probably 15 feet past and missed that. And then birdied number 9. I hit a 9-iron about
three feet there and made that for birdie. Birdied 11 and 12. 11, I hit pitching wedge
about three feet. And 12, I hit 6-iron about probably 18 feet there and made a nice little
breaking putt. The pin was back left. It was a good, tough pin placement. And then parred
all the rest way around until 17. Hit a good drive, 4-wood just on the back edge of the
green and 2-putted from probably 40 feet. Made about a 2-footer for birdie. That's it. I
think I missed a couple greens, two greens with the bogey on 8, and then I missed the par
3 No. 15. I had it just short of the green there, and actually putted from the fringe. And
those were the only two greens I missed. It was a nice day of ball-striking. 

Q. Tom, do you think a major should be this easy to score on? 

TOM KITE: Well, you know, this is a pretty good golf course, but when you get weather
conditions like what we had today, there's not much you can do. Honest to goodness, it's
kind of one of those things when you get a golf course under perfect conditions, it ought
to give up some good scores. I don't think you'll see -- I don't think the scores are
going to be absurdly low by the time the week is over with. They will start tucking those
pins and firming up the greens, and I don't think that it's going to go absolutely crazy.
But really, we got it in such perfect conditions today that, you know, it has to give up
some good scores. If it doesn't give up good scores on a day like today, it's probably
just a little too difficult. 

Q. What's it like playing all these majors condensed into a short period of time for
you? Has it affected any of your preparations for some of them?

TOM KITE: I've had to really pace myself very well. I've had -- well, with the British
Open next week, I will have four major championships in a six-week span. I skipped the two
weeks that were not majors in there. I skipped last week and I skipped the week before the
U.S. Senior Open. You know, I really had to pace myself in terms of my practice time and
scheduling. You know, not spending a whole lot of time on the range. I spent a lot of time
on the practice green. And as I talked a little bit at Saucon Valley when we were up
there, the good news is that I'm playing well right now; so there's not a great need for
me to spend a lot of time on the practice tee. I would hate to go into this stretch
feeling like my game was struggling and feeling the need to spend a lot of time out there
trying to -- trying to find the golf swing to use. So, you know, it's a couple reasons why
I'm taking it easy. One, out of necessity; but two, just because I don't really need to.
But yeah, I mean, you know, seven major championships in a year, and if you count The
PLAYERS Championship -- I wasn't in the Masters; so that's why it's seven versus eight.
And if you count The PLAYERS Championship, it's almost -- that's eight really big
tournaments in addition to all the others. And that's enough. It really is. That's plenty.
I don't need anymore majors. 

Q. What would you have done this week if this tournament wasn't here? Would you have
gone over early to St. Andrews? 

TOM KITE: Yeah. I always try to go over on Friday. That was my usual schedule prior to
the British Open, go over on Friday, get there Saturday and have plenty of time to adjust.
As it is, I'm going to be getting in there Monday afternoon, or Monday mid-morning, I
guess. Hopefully in time to do something Monday afternoon, other than crash, other than go
to bed.

Q. I guess here this year we've got more players than ever playing majors on both
tours, more guys your age who are still competitive on both tours. 

TOM KITE: I think that's certainly a testament to the SENIOR TOUR out here. There's no
question that we probably had five guys in the U.S. Open. And four of the five made the
cut, and to be honest with you, I'm surprised it wasn't five out of five, because I really
thought Jack would make the cut at Pebble Beach out there. But you've really got some guys
that can play out here that have kept themselves in good shape and are remaining
competitive and shooting some very good scores. And so when they step over to the regular
tour, maybe the expectations aren't exactly the same, but the expectations to play well
are still there. No question about it. You know, when Hale and Tom and I, all the other
guys that are playing the major championships step over there, it's not just go over there
play your two rounds and get the heck out of dodge. We're trying to go over there and be
competitive. 

Q. Are you satisfied with the way you've played this year, regardless of the results?
Do you feel your game, you've had it where you've wanted it? 

TOM KITE: Well, I struggled with the putter the first part of the year. I was lucky to
get the win at the Tradition, as everybody knows. That's probably as well as I've hit the
ball from tee-to-green the entire year, but I was struggling with it. Now, I'm putting
very well. And to be honest with you, there's not, you know, there's not really any
excuses for not playing well right now, because I am swinging well, I'm hitting the ball
well and my chipping and putting, bunker play is all very good right now. So if I can just
stay patient and stay out of my own way, well, then I should be able to play reasonably
well. How well? You know, it's golf. I mean, sometimes you're going to get the putts to go
over the edge, and sometimes they are going to drop. But I should be able to remain
competitive for a while. 

Q. Has there been any reason that it was easier out here on this tour to bring your
putting back than it might have been when you were still playing the regular tour?

TOM KITE: I'm not sure it's any easier. The greens may be a little bit slower out here
-- well, they are a little slower than they are on the regular tour, and probably a little
bit softer day-in and day-out than they are out there. But I'm not sure that the reason
that my putting has improved is because I'm playing the SENIOR TOUR. I changed putters,
changed everything, my putting stroke, and so I'm really -- my stroke is a heck of a lot
better. I'm aligning the blade toward the target now, as opposed to -- I was having
trouble aligning it to the left, and then pushing out on the putts. So I feel much more
confident, especially over the shorter putts, because now on a 4-foot straight putt, I've
got the blade lined up somewhere inside the hole where before I was, you know, really
fighting with it and not trusting the stroke. So I think that when I go -- well. I putted
reasonably well at Pebble Beach. I had just changed putting techniques with this putter
the week before at Chicago at SBD, and I won there and then went to Pebble and then Saucon
Valley. So it's only had three tournaments under its belt, and technique and the putter,
they are holding their own right now. So I'm really kind of anxious to see what it does on
some, you know, British Open course, and then later at the PGA. 

Q. Do you notice a difference in your attitude when you approach a putt, say, when you
have a 20-footer, now are you more anxious to putt it than before? 

TOM KITE: Well, 20-footer, yeah, at least I feel like I've got a chance on a 20-footer,
there's no question about it. But 3- and 4-footers, there is a huge difference in the
attitude. I'm not stepping up to that putt scared to death of them anymore. I feel like
I've got a really good opportunity to make all of the putts that you're supposed to make.
You know, you start eliminating a bunch of those 3-putts, and all of the sudden, your
score goes down. I mean, Nashville was a perfect example. I ended up -- that was the last
tournament before I changed putters, and I ended up losing that tournament by five shots
to Hale, and I missed six putts inside four feet, for the week. I mean, when you're
missing putts like this, you miss six putts like that for the week, you can't really one
win the golf tournament. You may miss one, or even two and still have a chance to win, but
you're not going to -- you're not going to compete missing many of them. So having those
putts go in, those 2-, 3-, 4-, 5-footers, makes a world of difference. 

Q. Do you think players this afternoon will have a little more difficult time scoring? 

TOM KITE: The wind is really not kicking up that much, or at least when I walked in,
there wasn't much there. But again, the golf course is going to dry out. I would
anticipate lower scores would be this morning than this afternoon. But, you know, there
may be a few more par 5s that you can hit shorter shots into the greens on. You'll be able
to reach those a little bit easier. So it may average out. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT