U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 2, 2000
Tom Kite
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TOM KITE: Obviously we knew that we were going to have to go low, and Hale seemed to be
the only one that was able to put up the numbers early on. The front nine is the nine
where you really have to do your scoring, because the greens are so much more difficult on
the back nine. And, you know, Bruce and I both got off to a very slow start on the front
nine. That really is the difference. Hale played well obviously on the front, and just
hung on from that point on. Obviously, he was -- he is a great player. And we knew it was
going -- he was going to be tough to beat. Bruce and I just weren't up to the task today. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 TOM KITE: Yeah, I never seemed to have the speed today. I hit a lot of putts on the
putting green this morning. Putting green seemed very, very fast. And then I got out on
the golf course, and they weren't quite as fast or I didn't seem to have the speed. It was
only on the back nine when I started getting the ball to the hole that I started hitting
some putts. Looked like they had a chance to go in, but I was just short on a lot of putts
that I felt like I hit pretty good putts on. 9 wasn't a bad stroke. It was just weak. It
just needed some speed, and certainly that hurt. I left a birdie putt short on 7. Left a
birdie putt just a little short on 5. Par-putt on 2; left just a little short. Just never
quite had the speed on the front nine, and I don't know whether the putting green was that
much faster or whether I just didn't adjust very well. But suffice to say, I didn't make
anything on the front nine and very little on the back. 
 
Q. Were you leaderboard gazing at all, and did you change your strategy to attacking --
 
 TOM KITE: Strategy stayed the same. I knew we were going to have to make a lot of
birdies. We felt like with the greens as soft as they were, there were still going to be
some good scores shot out there. Not that 69 is a bad score. But when you have got a guy
that is shooting 5- or 6-under, you have got to try to match him. Hale would have been a
tough man to beat, but it would have been interesting to see what would have happened if
one of us could have put a little heat on him and put a little pressure on him and done
something. Obviously, we weren't able to do that. 
 
Q. Was there any sense that it was slipping away at any particular point during the
round?
 
 TOM KITE: Well, yeah. I mean, I needed to get something going. The bogey at 2 hurt, but
I came right back with the birdie at 3. I felt okay at that point. I just knew that I
needed to get going. And then when I didn't birdie 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 -- all having
great opportunities -- I mean, those were the key holes in my round, the ones that caused
the most frustration, because I had hit inside 15 feet on every one of those holes and was
not able to convert. You got to make some of those if you are going to win. 
 
Q. Isn't 12-under supposed to win a U.S. Senior Open Championship?
 
 TOM KITE: Well, you would think it would. Again, I think we are all very surprised at
the way the scores went this week. Saucon Valley is a wonderful golf course, and it is
just a shame that the rain came early in the week and softened up the golf course so much.
It made it much easier to drive the ball in the fairway, and then obviously much easier to
hold the greens. That is why the scores went down. But I certainly hope the USGA doesn't
hold it against Saucon, because I think this is a wonderful test. And golly, the job they
did here, you know -- the attendance that was out here -- I think this is a wonderful
venue for the Senior Open. I hope they come back. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT