U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2000
Tom Kite
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 TOM KITE: First time to see it. 
 
 TOM KITE: I think it certainly has the potential to be a very, very hard golf course.
Very difficult. A lot of it is going to depend on what the weather does to us over the
next few days and how soft the golf course stays. These greens are very severe. The golf
course is, from tee-to-green, is just wonderful. Just straightforward right there. Right
there in front of you. You know exactly where to hit it on every hole; sets up wonderfully
well, you know. The fairways are narrow, but not unbelievably narrow. But there are a
number of holes where you absolutely must drive it in the fairway, because if you don't,
they have cross-hazards on a lot of those holes. So if you don't drive it on the fairway
on those holes, you are going to be pitching out because you won't be able to get it over
the water hazard or the bunker or whatever the hazard may be. But the main part of this
golf course is going to be the greens, and they are severely undulating -- a lot of little
ledges and nooks and crannies where they can tuck the pins. And if the greens dry out, if
they get firm and fast, we can be in for a very long, difficult week. If we get some rain,
then it will make it a little bit easier. But even if we get that, it is not going to be
an easy golf course. I am very impressed with it. 
 
 TOM KITE: Well, heading into it? I am playing fairly well right now. I don't get into
giving grades. I will let other players do that. That is a little more sophisticated than
I am. But I feel like I am playing fairly well right now. Obviously won a couple of weeks
ago up in Chicago, and had a reasonably decent U.S. Open out at Pebble Beach. Was not --
didn't get the good end of the draw out there, and didn't play well on Friday and Saturday
or the second and third round, you know. Those days kind of ran into one another out
there, as you all know. But didn't play well in the second and third round. But played
reasonably well the first and fourth. And so I feel like my game is in good shape. I am
pleased with where it is right now. 
 
Q. In your first run through today, did you identify any holes that you thought could
be --
 
 TOM KITE: Most severe greens on the golf course I think are the 15th and 16th. That is
just to pick out two. But all the others are fairly difficult. There are quite a few that
are going to create a lot of problems for a lot of guys, and you are going to hit some
good shots that are going to catch a ridge and the ball is going to start funneling down
and end up -- you think you might hit it in there five or six or ten feet, and going to
have a 30- or 40-foot putt up over a hump, up over a ridge. That is going to happen quite
a few times, and it is going to be a little frustrating for a number of players. You are
going to have to really maintain your patience level and your composure, and just know
that that is going to happen. Of course, then obviously you are going to have to putt
well. Because the lag putting is going to be crucial this week, because you are going to
have so many putts where you are going up and over, or up over on a couple of ridges or
along a ridge, and speed is going to be paramount. Being able to control the speed of
those putts is going to be huge this week. You are going to have to do that to even have a
chance. 
 
Q. It's a major, so it is always special, obviously, when all the names are here. And
you guys are here for the first time. Does that get the juices flowing a little bit more?
 
 TOM KITE: It is our first Senior major. I mean, first Senior Open. And obviously, we
have been looking forward to getting in here. I know Tom was in here a few minutes ago,
and we played a practice round today with Andy North, and it is nice to have a chance to
see this. We now have eight majors instead of only four, like the guys on the regular
Tour. So that is the good news/bad news. They all seem to come in one chest. For those of
us that were in the Open and going to the British Open, we have got four major
championships in a six-week span, so that is very difficult. But obviously we are looking
forward to playing, and especially when you got a golf course like this. This is my first
time to see it. I have heard so much about it for years and years, and it is all it is
cracked up to be. 
 
Q. Tom Watson was in here earlier saying he was having trouble identifying where they
were going to place hole locations on the greens for the Championship. Is that something
that concerns you, and how do you go about that?
 
 TOM KITE: The greens are severe, and they are going to have to be careful in where they
set their pins. I don't think it is -- it is not going to be that difficult to locate a
general area, but similar to what the USGA did to us at Pinehurst --, you know, two feet
or a foot and a half, or three feet, one way or the other, is huge. I think at Pinehurst
they came very close to setting up the golf course perfectly. I think they missed it about
a foot and a half to two feet every hole for about 72 holes. I think they got it just a
couple of feet too close to the edge or a couple of feet too close to the ridges in a lot
of cases, and I think they -- you know, at Pinehurst, I think that golf course played
probably a little too severe. I think they can do the same thing here. If they -- if you
have an area that is reasonably sufficient for holding a pin but you get the pin just a
little close to the drop off, then it can really make a big difference in this golf
course. I hope they do a wonderful job of setting it up. They are going to have to be very
careful. And especially, like I said earlier, if the greens get drier and a little faster,
they are going to have to be very careful. They could have some bruised egos out there. A
lot of -- 150 of them. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about the mood out on the course a couple of days before
the tournament starts? We are watching Arnold Palmer on 16. He was laughing it up, having
a good time. Talk about the mood that you guys are in right now a couple of days before
all the pressure kicks in.
 
 TOM KITE: I had a good day today. I played with Dick Smith, who was president of the
PGA when Tom Watson was the Captain of the Ryder Cup team. As I say, with Andy North and
Tom Watson. So I was out there with a couple of my good friends, and we had a great time
out there playing today. I think everybody is enjoying it, or at least everybody in our
group was having a good time. And we know the importance of the event; and obviously, we
all want to be playing -- bring our peak game in here. But it is a heck of a lot easier to
maintain your patience when you are having a good time. 
 
 TOM KITE: We didn't have any games. I guess that is why we were in a good frame of
mind. Didn't have any matches. Nobody lost any money. Of course, nobody won any money
either. 
 
Q. Tom was in here talking a little bit about some sort of advantage, maybe, coming --
guys like him and you come from playing a lot of regular Tour events. The difficulty of
the courses. You talked about eight majors. In your minds are four of them a little easier
than the other four? Is there an advantage playing the other course, then coming here?
 
 TOM KITE: Certainly, what we have seen The Tradition is a very difficult golf course
where we play out at Desert Mountain. As those of you that were at that PGA Seniors down
in Florida know, that is a very difficult golf course. And we had some tough conditions
down there. This golf course is going to be very hard. But it is not going to be like
Pebble Beach. Pebble Beach was just, I mean, that was just a very, very difficult setup.
It was a brutal golf course that everybody but one was having difficulty with. It was a
very trying week for a lot of players that went in there with their games, hitting all
cylinders, and they still struggled on that golf course. Saucon will not be that hard, for
sure. But it is still going to be much more difficult than what we see on a normal weekly
basis. We will have to wait and see whether that proves to be an advantage. But those of
us who have played a number of tournaments on the regular Tour and those of us that have
played a couple of the majors Championships on the regular Tour, you have to think that
that is probably a little bit of an advantage. But, again, we will have to wait and see. 
 
Q. Dave Eichelberger was in here. We asked him who would be the early favorite. He said
he thought it would be Irwin, Watson, and yourself. How do you feel about that? A little
extra pressure when he tabs you as a favorite? 
 
 TOM KITE: It is nice of Dave to say that. Doesn't really mean a whole lot being tabbed
as one of the favorites. But certainly Hale is playing very well, Tom is playing well, and
I am playing well. So that doesn't really surprise me. As far as the pressure, you know,
we all want to play well, and we all want to have a great week. All three of those that
you have named, plus a whole list of other guys, think they have a wonderful chance of
winning this tournament this week. So the pressure is going to be evenly distributed among
a number of players. 
 
Q. So much was made about the class of 2000, three guys. Talk about what you think --
 
 TOM KITE: Three is, I think, cutting it a little bit short. I think you need to include
Andy North in there. And the way he has played, I think you have to include Doug Tewell -
five guys. 
 
Q. Point taken. Talk about the competition, the excitement. Have you guys brought to
the SENIOR TOUR what everyone hoped you would bring so far?
 
 TOM KITE: You will have to ask everybody else as to whether we have brought to the Tour
what they thought we were going to bring. I think we have had or I will speak for me, I
can't speak for Tom, Andy, and Lanny and Doug, but I certainly have enjoyed my short time
on the SENIOR TOUR. I have enjoyed getting out here. The guys have been super. They have
been very nice and encouraging and accommodating and helpful. It has been a fun experience
as far as I am concerned and I really enjoyed getting out here. It is a double-edge sword,
I miss the PGA TOUR. I have a lot of good friends out there, but I have played a number of
tournaments now on the PGA TOUR and it is nice to get back out there. But this is fun and,
you know, hopefully we have been able to add a little something to the SENIOR TOUR. I
don't think that the SENIOR TOUR was in the dire straits that a number of people said it
was. There were a number of articles written that the SENIOR TOUR was on its death bed,
and that certainly was not the case. It is a wonderful show that they have out here and
the guys do a great job. But if the five of us that came out in late 1999, 2000 age, if we
can add a little bit to it that just makes it that much better. 
 
Q. Following up, talk a little bit about what it is like to go from Pebble Beach;
whereas, a Senior, there are limited expectations for what you will do?
 
 TOM KITE: By who? 
 
Q. Okay. Here you are a young stud expected to man-handle much of the field --
 
 TOM KITE: I don't really worry too much about what other peoples' expectations are. I
expected to have a good week out at Pebble Beach. I expected to play actually much better
than I did. I was a little disappointed there: The draw that I got there; the way the
weather turned because I think I saw somewhere where three-fourths or about three-fourths
of the people that made the cut came from the early/late rotation. I was in the
late/early. So that was certainly a bad part of the draw. That just nothing you can do
about it. It just happens that way. But I expected to play well. I won the week before. I
went to a golf course that I love; that I have had great success on, and enjoy playing so,
I expected to have a good week out at Pebble Beach, significantly better than what I did
show. I was a little bit disappointed in the results out there. This week, coming in, I
hope to have better results. I hope to play better than I did out there at Pebble Beach
and capitalize on some good shots and some good opportunities and hopefully be able to
really contend in this tournament. 
 
Q. As one of the younger guys on this SENIOR TOUR heading into this type of
championship, do you ever sit back and think about the legendary field you are a part of
at this point?
 
 TOM KITE: It's an awesome field, there is no question about it. That is the thing that
is so amazing about the SENIOR TOUR is not only is it legendary in the things that they
have done, but it has also been the things that they are doing right now. The guys are
really playing some great golf and it is not just, you know, let's just come out and watch
a bunch of old guys walk around on their canes out there. The guys can really, really play
some golf. I guess one of the biggest surprises to me in coming out here on the SENIOR
TOUR is how competitive and how well the guys really do play. You kind of get on the PGA
TOUR and you see a lot of these mid-60s scores being shot on a weekly basis you think
well, golly, I mean, they are probably playing 5,800-yard golf courses. That is not the
case. The golf courses are fairly challenging. They are not as difficult as the regular
Tour, but they are quite challenging, so I am constantly amazed at not only how good-I
mean, we all know the records of the guys in this field, but what amazes me more is what
they continue to do. Last week is a perfect example, with Trevino winning. That was
awesome and fun to watch. 
 
Q. Have you played much with Hale Irwin and how is he playing?
 
 TOM KITE: Yeah, I played -- let me see, the last two tournaments that I played, I
played with him on Sunday at -- well, last three -- played with him Sunday at Nashville, a
tournament that he won. Hale and I were tied for the lead going into the Sunday. He ended
up winning the golf tournament. Then Hale and Tom and I got paired together the first two
rounds at Pebble Beach. Hale is playing very well - surprise, surprise. 
 
Q. Is there a number right now that you think you will have to shoot to win the
tournament?
 
 TOM KITE: I don't know enough about the golf course yet to really give you a comment on
that. Just one practice round, seeing it today, and again, the greens were relatively soft
today, which I don't anticipate them staying like this unless we continue to have some
rain. It will be a little early for me to give you a number there. 
 
Q. Is there anything that the Pebble Beach experience will do to help you hear?
 
 TOM KITE: Yeah, I mean, I am used to seeing narrow fairways. Of course, all the guys
that played last week, I didn't play at Cadillac, but they said the fairways were very
narrow there too. But yeah, I think we are getting to the meat of the Tour in that with
all the major Championships you are -- we are away from some of the TPCs that have the 50-
and 60-yard fairways and we are now going into a large portion of the Tour where they are
able to start narrowing up the fairways and that is on both Tours. Westchester is a
perfect example on the regular Tour of a normal PGA TOUR tournament that narrows up the
fairways. And Montclair last week for the SENIOR TOUR, Kemper Lakes has some fairly narrow
fairways for a big golf course. We are getting into some of the months where we are able
to grow the rough up and we are seeing that. Certainly playing at Pebble Beach on that big
a golf course having to drive the ball in the fairway to even have any chance of making
pars, you know, kind of gets you thinking in that mentality. 
 
Q. The words "luck of the draw" you hear them all the time. But in reality,
winning a lot of events out here originate with being lucky getting the draw. I agree
whole-heartedly at Pebble Beach, the guys in the wrong draw, they were eliminated from
that event right from the beginning.
 
 TOM KITE: Right. 
 
Q. It is one aspect that is really never thought about. On Saturday and Sunday you only
see the people that are really lucky in the draw....
 
 TOM KITE: The thing why you can't comment on it, it is all after the fact. I don't
think the way Tiger played had he been in the other half, he still would have won the golf
tournament. Maybe not by 15; probably would have won by 12. Not that big a deal there,
but, you know, except for him, it was -- it had a huge impact on the outcome of the
tournament. But you don't know whether early/late or late/early is going to be the
advantage until after it is over. Until you know what the weather does and how the weather
delays break, there is just no way to speculate on that. And again, it averages out. It
doesn't -- if you are in that one particular tournament, yeah, you get the wrong draw,
that is bad luck. But over a year's time or, you know, five-year span it is all going to
average out. You are going to get some good ones and you are going to get some bad ones. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT