U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 15, 2012
John Cook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, John Cook shot a 66 today and finished 6 under par for the Championship.  
   
 Q.   Hi, John.   How are you?   
JOHN COOK:   Hi.  
   
 Q.   Could you talk about your round today.   4 under, that's pretty good.   Especially with what was going on out there.   
JOHN COOK:   Yeah, it was not the greatest of starts to play No. 1 like I did, but I hung in there and made a par.   From then on, I really had control of what I was doing.  
I felt good about the golf course, even though the wind came from a different direction.   I felt like my tee ball lines were good, my eye lines were good.   So I was confident with the driver and just drove it everywhere and drove it really nicely today.  
Took advantage of some really good shots.   Left maybe a couple out there.   The bogey at 16, obviously, hurt.   Just had a little 9 iron in there.   Maybe got a little greedy with my line.   Thinking I need to make one here and I can make another one, never know what might happen.   But got a little greedy with the line, maybe, and didn't get a very good bounce.   So made bogey.  
But other than that, finished strong, finished with a birdie.   So I was happy.  
   
 Q.   What's your overall impression of Indianwood and how it played this week?   
JOHN COOK:   I can't say enough about it.   My caddie, Tommy Anderson, is from Shelby Township, and he's been up here, and he's played it and been around.   He said J.C., you'll love it.   You're going to like this course.   I promise you, you're going to like this course.   
Literally, on Sunday afternoon I didn't even know if I was going to play because I had neck spasms and I had to withdraw last week on Saturday morning leading the tournament. I felt just get me ready somehow.   
My guys there in Newport, Tim Brown, really worked on me Sunday night and Monday, got me ready to at least get on a plane.  
Once I got here‑‑ I played late Wednesday afternoon, was the only practice round.   As soon as I stepped up on the 10th tee, I went, yeah, I get this.   This is all right.   And the more I played it, the more comfortable I got.   
And then I didn't play badly on Friday, but I didn't hit enough fairways to really be aggressive and take advantage of any opportunities.   But Thursday, Saturday, Sunday, I played well.  
I think it's because you get to a place that you like the looks of and there's very few awkward‑looking shots that don't fit your eye.   They all fit your eye, and that's always good.  
   
 Q.   If you're driving it, the rough is no concern.   
JOHN COOK:   If you're driving it good, and I was driving it really solidly.   Friday was just a little bit off.   I wasn't quite sure where I was going.   But Saturday, Sunday, I drove the ball beautifully and hit my spots and took advantage of some opportunities.  
   
 Q.   What is it about this course that has bitten a couple of players, especially like Kite, Langer, who have been in the lead and it's kind of cut them back a little bit because guys like you have come up in the pack.   What is it that you see, even after being here so many days, that can still get you?  
JOHN COOK:   You can certainly be in the wrong spot off the tee, and you can certainly be in the wrong spot on the green.   And I think they did a great job with the speed of the greens because they weren't overly quick, but you still had to pay attention because you had lots of big‑‑ you had to hit it 8 feet to hit it 50 feet, a lot of those.  
So you had to pay attention.   And if you got on the wrong‑‑ in the wrong places, it didn't take much to make bogeys and even doubles.   It didn't take that bad of a shot to get you offline.   There's a lot of danger out there, there really is.   Even the shortest holes have places where you can't be.   
Great set of par 3s, especially coming in.   Those two on the back side are fantastic.   A lot of great holes.   12's one of the best holes we play all year.   Just a great variety of golf, and if you're just a little bit off, it will get you.  
   
 Q.   How about the round you had today and the reception from the fans that have been waiting for major golf, big‑time golf to get back.   Were you feeling the vibe?   
JOHN COOK:   Definitely.   This is a major championship crowd.   They love their golf up here.   I know that.   I've spent a lot of time in this area.   My two roommates in college are from here.   I went to a different school down there in the South.   
For the most part, the fans were pretty cordial.   There was a few out there that, you know, thought that their one win in the last ten years gave them reason to spout off, but it was all in fun.   It's all in great fun.  
Like I said, the people up here love their golf, and they loved it when the Buick Open was up here.   They loved it when any Major was up here at Oakland Hills or wherever it might be here with the gals.   Over at Benton Harbor, we had great crowds.   It really felt like major championship atmospheres.   That's a great tribute to the kind of people that are up here.  
   
 Q.   Appreciate it.   Thank you very much.   
JOHN COOK:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT