U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2012
John Cook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   All right.   With John Cook.   Five birdies today.   Only one yesterday, I believe.   What led to so many birdies today?  
JOHN COOK:   I drove the ball well today.   I drove it in every fairway except for one.   And that was a big key.   I think I finally got the right eye sight or eye lines after only playing a couple times.   I felt more comfortable on the tee where I was going and what the wind was doing.   So I felt better with that.  
If I drive the ball on the fairway, I'll hit mostly greens and give myself some pretty good opportunities.  
   
 Q.   How did the course differ today than the last couple of days?  
JOHN COOK:   Similar.   I thought it was very similar.   Some pretty good pins.   A couple of real good pins.   The par 3s, I think, had some good pins.   The short 3rd was kind of tricky, but it was only a wedge or a 9 iron.   But the other three were really tough.  
So I think the setup was good.   The fairways were running but not out of control.   And the greens were firm but not out of control, which was great.   They kept some moisture on them, and they were very puttable.   I hit a lot of good shots and made some birdies.  
   
 Q.   How is the neck that was bothering you last week?   How is that doing?  
JOHN COOK:   Hanging in there, paying attention.   Like my body told me on Saturday morning, I was not paying enough attention to my body.   That's kind of what happens.  
I've paid attention this week.   Well, for quite a while.   It's had no issues so far.   The warm humidity helps, but I've also done the proper things that I'm supposed to be doing and have been doing up until you just kind of lose track sometimes.  
   
 Q.   Is there a number that you feel like you can put up tomorrow that might put some pressure on the leaders?  
JOHN COOK:   I think that you'd have to get close to 10.   That would be my guess.   Probably 7, 8 at least.  
It can be scored on, but also you have to pay attention because you double bogey out there quick if you're not careful.  
If I go out and just play solid golf, get to a number and get to another number and get to another number.   But we'll have to wait and see what the guys finish at.  
   
 Q.   Good luck on Sunday.   Thank you so much.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT