U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2012
John Cook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Here with John Cook.   You're under par in the first round of the U.S. Senior Open.   Do you like your position?   
JOHN COOK:   I do.   Quite honestly, two days ago, I didn't think I would be able to play.   So with the help of real good friend of mine in Newport, Tim Brown, he got me going again and healthy enough to get on a plane and come out.  
So I'm‑‑ not that I'm thrilled, because I left some shots out there, but if someone would have said we'll give you 69 the first round and go from there, I'd be happy.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about specifically what your injury was?   
JOHN COOK:   I had a neck spasm on Saturday morning, unfortunately, leading that tournament, and I couldn't go.   It was a crazy thing, one of those fluke things that your body tells you that you need to take better care of yourself somehow, and I just pulled the plug on Saturday, unfortunately, and got some immediate help.  
It went away.   Lucky it wasn't a disk, it wasn't anything more major than just a neck spasm.   So pretty lucky.  
   
 Q.   Did that affect your preparation for this championship?   
JOHN COOK:   Well, yeah, because I didn't do anything on Saturday, Sunday.   I hit a few balls on Monday after a couple sessions with Tim and felt good enough to hit balls, and nothing got worse.   And then had another session on Monday afternoon and then flew all day Tuesday.  
So my preparation, basically, was yesterday afternoon walking around the golf course and hitting some shots.   My caddie had been here.   Tommy lives here.   He's been up here and knew the course pretty well.   So I just kind of followed him.  
   
 Q.   Great.   What's your game plan headed into the next round?   
JOHN COOK:   Just I need to drive the ball a little bit more on the fairway.   My lines were a little bit off today.   I hit it good, but I just wasn't in the right spots.   So tighten up my driver lines a little bit.   Other than that, I think I'll be okay.   
   
 Q.   Great.   Good luck.   Thank you so much.   
JOHN COOK:   Sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT