MONTREAL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 3, 2010
John Cook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH: You have a 36-hole lead in the Montréal Championship, very nice playing, go over the day.
 JOHN COOK: Yeah, I'm very pleased with my striking of the golf ball today. It was a bit of a stronger wind, so we had to pay attention. I hit some really quality shots and the wind was blowing its hardest, so it was nice to hit nice, crisp shots when the wind was blowing. 
 So I was for the most part very pleased. I hit a lot of greens in two days and I hit some nice drives in some fairways. 
 Left a few out there putting-wise, but made a couple, so I'm happy with my position right now and like I said, I hit some nice shots today when the wind was blowing its strongest, so that's always nice to know that I'm swinging the club pretty well and catching it pretty solidly and controlling my distance pretty well, so I'm happy with that. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: If you could just take us through your birdies, your eagle at 7 and you had a good save at 3. Tell us about that.
 JOHN COOK: I missed a pretty makeable putt at 1 from eight feet and I birdied 2 from 12 feet. 
 I did make a nice safe on 3. I didn't hit that bad of a second shot, just rolled off the side of a green into a fluffy lie and I just hit a pitch shot and fluffed it up there to 15 feet and made it for par, which was great to see that go in. 
 And I hit nice shots the next few holes, and got to No. 7, hit a really nice drive and hit a 5-iron in there about four feet, made that. 
 Birdied 9 and hit a nice drive and a sand wedge about 12 feet, made that. 
 Had some it opportunities at 10 and 11 from about eight feet or less. 
 Then I made a nice birdie at 13. Hit a 6-iron about 12 feet past the hole and made that. 
 14, I hit a loose second shot. Actually I was trying to hit it to the left but not as far left as I did up on the side of the hill. I made a great pitch, bumped it into the hill and let it run down and made about an 8-footer for birdie there, so that was nice. 
 Next hole was my one bad shot of the day. I was really, really trapped in-between clubs and I tried to press a 7-iron and didn't hit a very good shot but it came up on the green and I 2-putted from about 60 feet. I made a nice 2-putt. Second one was only about three feet so I had a good first putt. 
 16, I hit in the right bunker, which probably 90 percent of the field, hit in the right bunker. There really wasn't anywhere you could miss it. I had a horrible lie and hit one of my best bunker shots out. Hit it about 15 feet and missed it.
 18 had a good chance, hit driver, wedge, about 15 feet to the pin. Overall, really solid shots. I was very, very pleased with the way I struck the golf ball today. 

 Q. Talk about, obviously you're in the spot that everyone wants to be in. 
 JOHN COOK: I might be leading and certainly tomorrow is a telling day and I really won't worry about anything until the back side. If I keep hitting quality golf shots like I have and hit a lot of greens, I only missed two greens for the week and I feel like if I hit -- I've been hitting quality golf shots and if I keep doing that, give myself chances at it, I can't ask for anything more than that, and just get to the back side with a chance to win, and if we do, we'll try to do whatever we can to win a golf tournament. 
 These guys are not going to lay down and I'm not going to lay down. The golf course, if we get some wind tomorrow, it will be a tough task. If we don't get any wind, it will be a shootout for sure and that will be very interesting. Going to have to shoot another low score I'm sure. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 JOHN COOK: Really they have accepted it wonderfully and very appreciative to have this event up here. It really speaks well for what our tour is all about, which is a nice fan base, fan appreciation, sponsor appreciation and good quality golf on a good quality golf course, and you know, you love to see people out there to watch us play. These guys' skills have not diminished and to see birdies today, just good shots, get a 67-year-old guy shooting his age, that's just great. We are really appreciative to this have event here in Montréal and look forward for many years coming back. 

 Q. Back-to-back 66, is there a key thing that can happen for another one tomorrow? 
 JOHN COOK: Well, yeah, it was quality golf shots, just very, very solid shots. I miss-hit one shot, that was 15, my second shot. The par save at 3 was good. But the rest of it was very, very solid. I was very, very happy with the way I struck the ball, and you shoot back-to-back 66s, obviously -- I had that one stretch where I made a bunch of long putts and took advantage of some par 5s and other good opportunities. 
 You know, three days in a row, we'll see. We've done it before, so there's really no reason not to. Tomorrow is just another day with the same thoughts and the same mind frame, same game plan as I always do, and that's try to hit each shot the same, try to control my golf ball around the golf course. 
 So I've done a pretty good job of that and good preparation, I was down in Pine Valley pre playing with some friends. So I had some nice prep playing down there. I felt like I was in decent playing shape coming in this week. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: John, good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT