PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2013
Rob Labritz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.     What's the memory that you're going to relive on the way home and when you go back and talk to your members?
ROB LABRITZ:   You know, I want to pay it forward.   I want to give more to the crowds.   I want the people to see great golf and I want them to understand that we totally enjoy performing for them.   You know, it's not all about you.   It's about putting on a good show, as well, and I want to make sure that I pay it forward for all the good fortune that's come my way the last couple of months.

Q.   How many people did you run into this week that had something to say about how you got here?
ROB LABRITZ:   Too many to count.   The overwhelming response has been unbelievable.   I want two more days of hearing my name yelled out in the crowd, like Tiger Woods or Phil Mickelson, people you don't know, pretty cool. 

Q.   The way you fight and rallied after a disappointing day to come back, you wanted to look good and respectable, but you also were fighting hard to get to that number. 
ROB LABRITZ:   I never give up.   I'm one of those guys that I'm sweet on the inside but on the outside, I want to beat you.   I'm going to fight because you can never tell when something is going to happen.   I know that. 
I may get a little dejected after that shot in the water on No. 7 today, but you know, inside‑‑ make a par, or whatever I can do to scratch it out, because you can never tell when you're going to have to scratch it out under that pressure again.   You're always working to get your game better, at least I am. 

Q.   Talk about your family, you're expecting a baby, and it's a surprise to both you and your wife?
ROB LABRITZ:   We have the name picked out, we are good to go.   It's a unisex name, it's going to be Ryan Miller whether it's a girl or a boy. 

Q.   Is there anything as far as competition next for you before the fall? 
ROB LABRITZ:   Totally.   We have our section championship and we also have our Met Open and our Tournament of Champions.   Danny and I are in a pretty good race for Player of the Year.   I'm ahead a little bit, so there's going to be a good back and forth going between him and I.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT