PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2010
Rob Labritz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. First thing I got to ask you about is, man, it's been a long time since you've been to the PGA Championship. I think it was 2003, is that correct?
 ROB LABRITZ: 2003. Yes.

 Q. Tell me about this week and your preparation. 
 ROB LABRITZ: I'm older, I prepared myself differently, I worked hard with my coach the last month. People on my staff they have just been so supportive, they have just been letting me go play. And I blocked off my book, kind of cut down on the lessons, and they're letting me go for my dream. 

 Q. I didn't watch you as closely at French Lick, but I have a feeling that that was like a stepping stone in your preparations and once you got here it sort of came together?
 ROB LABRITZ: Yes, that was, it was solid over the weekend, I played really good over the weekend and then played really solid coming into this thing. I got control over my ball flight, which is really nice and worked on my putting and I just did better, I feel comfortable.

 Q. Everyone says that obviously the speed of the greens here are a little bit different than you see at a national championship, the Pete Dye nuances you are going to always see no matter where you go, but up here it's a different game and you have to work on that putting and be ready to deal with the major championship?
 ROB LABRITZ: I think the three hour delay before we started the first day helped. Because I really just sat on the putting green and hit putt after putt after putt after putt and just really got used to the speed. 
 Yesterday when we came out late they slowed down at least two feet. And then we came out this morning and it was a lot faster. 

 Q. Those years between the last PGA and here was it just all just a matter of -- go ahead and explain what it was about in your own game. 
 ROB LABRITZ: I worked so hard on just changing my golf swing to get control over my ball flight. Over the last seven years I worked with my coach, Tom Wilson, and I just understand the golf swing more, I understand what I need to do to control my ball flight. And he always used to say I was a great player in spite of my swing and now that I have control over my ball flight I can reach higher levels. 

 Q. You get the Grizzly Adams look today, is there anything special about it? Does it mean attack?
 ROB LABRITZ: It was. It means attack. I'm not at the club so I figured, what the heck. I cleaned it up under here. And I would like to give a shout out to my friend Jade Ommeraas who is battling breast cancer. And I told her that I was going to come in here and do the best I could for her. 

 Q. Where is she?
 ROB LABRITZ: She's in -- well she's in Florida, but she's in Houston now. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT