U.S. TEAM OLYMPIC TRIALS: SWIMMING
June 28, 2012
Brendan Hansen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No microphone.)
BRENDAN HANSEN:   That's the only difference.   You definitely don't have that "final" feel yet, so you have to keep gettin' faster each swim. 

Q.   After winning the 100, do you have to put the pressure on yourself knowing that go you're already going? 
BRENDAN HANSEN:   I want this.   I want the 200.   This is the race that I missed in 2008, and I want it back, I want to go back there, and I want to swim it in the Olympics. 
I watched this event in the 2008 Beijing Games, and I don't want to do that again.   The pressure is there.   I put it on myself, and I think I'm shaping up to swim fast. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
BRENDAN HANSEN:   Good, great, just really smooth out front.   My 200 stroke feels better than the 100 does.   The 100 is just so‑‑ you can't make any mistakes, and if you do it's magnified by ten.
And in the 200 you can make as many as you want; you're in the water twice as long.   This morning, really cruised it, really relaxed, and tonight I came out and pushed the first half a little bit just to see where everybody was and turned at the 150 and said, "It's not a final."
Q.Just kind of‑‑
BRENDAN HANSEN:   Honestly I don't think‑‑ there is an intensity in the water and in the crowd when you know it's a final, and you push off the wall and usually you're just red lining, go, get the horse‑in‑the‑barn kinda thing, and I just‑‑ you just kinda let it go. 

Q.   Does it mean more to you to make the 200 than the 100? 
BRENDAN HANSEN:   I want to swim as much as I possibly can in London, you know?   So this is a race that I think I'm better at.   If there is a chance for me to medal in London, I think this is a better shot for me, the longer the race, just because of how I train and how I prepare myself for races. 
The 100 is always going to be a crap shoot no matter what, but the 200, I'm just going to bear down, and I'm getting faster with each swim, and I was pleased with the way I swam tonight.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT