AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 18, 2019
DJ LeMahieu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








New York - 4, Houston - 1
Q. After that little bit of a sloppy top of the first the stadium was pretty quiet. Your home run seemed to wake it up. What was that feeling like to hit that and feel the stadium come alive like that?
DJ LeMAHIEU: It was a good feeling. We needed a good start. I was just trying to get on base, hit something hard and get things going and put a pretty good swing on it.
Q. Your catch of the foul ball also fired up the fans. I was wondering the difficulty level of that. Can you just kind of talk us through what that was like?
DJ LeMAHIEU: Just trying to make a play. I was hoping it was going to stay in. Definitely wasn't an easy one. And just kind of used my reactions and glad I came out with it.
Q. What did you feel James showed tonight on the mound?
DJ LeMAHIEU: Pitched great. His fastball was explosive, 100 plus pitches. Fastball still thrown hard. Uses off speed when he needed to. But we needed a huge start from him and he came through in a huge way.
Q. What is your mindset going up to the plate, you're the first batter, potential elimination game going against Justin Verlander?
DJ LeMAHIEU: Just we wanted to give him our best shot. And just trying to get things going. We had a tough top of the first inning. Like always just trying to get things going. But we really needed to get it going today.
Q. The first inning gets even more impressive when you consider what Verlander did from that point on. What did you see when he got it together? What was he doing so well after that?
DJ LeMAHIEU: He was just off after the first inning, good pitch mix, good fastball. But we took advantage of his missed locations, when he was a little vulnerable. And that's the difference in the game. But once he settled down he was tough.
Q. With Verlander being a guy that's capable of getting better as he goes along, is there a sense of urgency in the dugout to capitalize on that situation in the first inning?
DJ LeMAHIEU: Yeah, definitely. But at the same time we don't want to be up there pressing and trying to do too much, try to take what he gives us. And I think we did a good job of that the first inning, and some really good at-bats, and Hicks-y with the huge homer.
Q. With everything you guys have been through this year just how good does it feel that you've got one more game, one more flight to Houston?
DJ LeMAHIEU: It's a good feeling. Last night was a tough night all around. Last night sucked. So for us to respond and keep it alive and get some momentum going was huge.
Q. Obviously you're confident going back to Houston. Is there an extra level surge when you got to Game 6 without using the guys you would need to use in a bullpen game tomorrow?
DJ LeMAHIEU: Yeah, I don't know how we're going to piece it together tomorrow and the next day. I know we're going to -- today was a big step gaining confidence. And like I said, I don't know how we're going to piece it together but I have a lot of confidence in everyone going into the game.
Q. For three straight games you guys were talking about not getting a big hit, putting traffic on bases. Was there sort of a collective exhale when Hicks hits that home run, you have a couple guys on bases and finally you got that big hit?
DJ LeMAHIEU: Maybe a little bit. I think we all kind of expected something good to happen today, just the way the last couple days went. And first inning for us to do it, I think that allowed Pax to settle in a little bit and kind of all of us to get our swagger on a little bit again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT