AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 13, 2019
DJ LeMahieu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've had a lot of plays at first base already in this postseason, you've done throws out of the dirt while holding the bag. Based on your experience, is there someone who gave you really good advice with that or something that you were just always very comfortable with?
DJ LeMAHIEU: It's been an adjustment over the season. I never really played first base before this year. I got a lot of work in Spring Training. And we've got some pretty good defense at first base on our team, too, just asking them questions.
By this point in the season I feel fairly comfortable over there.
Q. Obviously you've had this kind of talent for years and showed that at a young age. But are there things you think you've gained with more experience that have helped you this year, things that maybe either you didn't understand right away or weren't as good at until you spent several years in the majors?
DJ LeMAHIEU: Yeah, I think for me the experience has been the biggest thing for me to grow as a major league player. I feel like my approach, and physically I feel pretty much the same as I have my whole career, but I think it's experience that's kind of set me apart this year, it's kind of made me a lot better.
Q. Where do you see that making the biggest difference?
DJ LeMAHIEU: I guess I've been kind of through every situation now. I've had a lot of failures. I've had a lot of great moments. And I just think all that combines maybe into the player I am and hopefully keep getting better.
Q. You have a relatively low strikeout count for someone with your number of plate appearances this year. How much of that is a skill you have and how much is a by-product of your approach to at-bats?
DJ LeMAHIEU: I think a little bit of both. I hate striking out, first and foremost. But I think I have pretty good hand-eye coordination. But at the same time I see the ball pretty deep, which a lot of times leads to putting the ball in play.
Q. This might go without saying, but how huge would it be to go back to the Bronx with a 2-0 lead?
DJ LeMAHIEU: Yeah, it would be huge. Big win last night, complete game. I know we have -- we'll be extremely focused, have good energy going into today. I feel really good going into today.
Q. I know the Rockies had just lost in the Wild Card, but do you have any recollection of watching the American League Championship Series two years ago between these two teams?
DJ LeMAHIEU: Not too much, honestly. I know I watched it, I just don't remember too much of it. I just know it went back and forth at that time.
Q. Where were you at that time, physically?
DJ LeMAHIEU: At home on the couch.
Q. You've had some success against Justin Verlander over your career. What do you remember about your experiences facing him that may help you tonight?
DJ LeMAHIEU: He's a really good pitcher and he's not going to give you a lot to hit. When he does bring it over the plate, hopefully be ready. He competes extremely hard out there, I know we're ready to match that for sure.
Q. On that throw that you got form Judge, is not a typical play that you probably get many reps doing. How hard is that play and just the angle from where you are on first base from the length of the throw, is that one of the harder plays you've had to make at first base do you think?
DJ LeMAHIEU: I think so. Yeah, that's one you don't practice, you just kind of react. With Judge's arm, too, once he caught the ball I didn't know if he could make the throw, but he turned his body real quick and he he's got a cannon for an arm. Just a good play at a good time there, for sure.
Q. How do you even know where to put your feet?
DJ LeMAHIEU: Yeah, just kind of all instinctual there.
Q. When you watch Gleyber in the batter's box what's the No. 1 thing that stands out to you?
DJ LeMAHIEU: He's relaxed. Very relaxed. Very confident. And he's got -- he's got his power swing and he's got his put the ball in play swing. And for a 22-year-old to kind of have two approaches and to know when to use both, it's impressive.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT