ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 8, 2012
Marie-Eve Pelletier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   What is your reaction after that match?   What will you remember from it?  
MARIE‑EVE PELLETIER:   We didn't play a very good match today.   Tennis can be cruel in singles but even more so in doubles.   Often everything depends on a tiebreaker, and it's just one point here or there.   
I had a good series of 15 victories in doubles.   I many times saved match points, but unfortunately today it didn't go our way.  
In doubles it can go very quickly one way or the other way.   They had a match point; we saved it.   We had a match point; they saved it.   It was just one point.     
We really wanted to be here.   It was important for us, so it's a pity we didn't make it but I have no regrets.  
I know we won everything we could win.   We did our best.  
   
 Q.   And there was a great atmosphere out there.   
MARIE‑EVE PELLETIER:   Yes.   I just love playing in front of the crowd here, and there were also family and relations, which was nice.  
   
 Q.   Do you remember your first time here in this tournament?  
MARIE‑EVE PELLETIER:   Oh, a long time ago, 15 years ago, I think.   It's odd thinking I was there such a long time ago.  
We were lucky because we had many opportunities to play here, and when you are a high‑level athlete, what you like is not only play for the crowd but also for your family or friends.  
   
 Q.   Do you believe this is the last time you're playing here?  
MARIE‑EVE PELLETIER:   I know that in two years from now I will no longer be on the tour.   
   
 Q.   But you still have a good level?  
MARIE‑EVE PELLETIER:   Yes, my level is there, but it's tough mentally.   In tennis it is easy to say, Oh, if I had been able to do this or that...   
Lately I have been winning tight matches because I'm just more relaxed and I have had fewer matches to play.     
On this match we did have a match point, so it is really a pity we didn't make it.   But our opponents were very good.   They played together in the Olympics recently.  
I love the competition, and if I only had to play the matches, I would continue, but what is tough is everything that goes with it like the traveling and everything.  
   
 Q.   Last year you were already talking about quitting.   
MARIE‑EVE PELLETIER:   Yes.   I decided to play doubles because I just love doubles, and I won 16 tournaments this year in doubles.  
Often the decision is made in the tiebreaker just with one point here or there.   But I had no regular partner for my doubles, and I felt like I wanted to play singles again.   
When you play doubles you are in the shadows.   Playing singles is more physical.   It's more challenging.   I was missing the competition.   
So I started playing singles again, and my goal was to be able to play a last time in a Grand Slam tournament in singles, and I made it because I'm going to play the US Open.   
I would have liked to have played the Olympics, too, but I was not chosen, and this is not under my control.   
   
 Q.   Do you think you will be ready for the US Open?  
MARIE‑EVE PELLETIER:   Oh, it's a long time   I haven't played singles in a Grand Slam tournament, so I need to prepare a lot.   But I have shown tonight that I am still competitive, and I want to do well because I want to finish off on a positive note.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel more pressure playing here in Montreal?  
MARIE‑EVE PELLETIER:   I just pretended it was just like any other tournament.   I didn't think about it.   Now I have different challenges.   But I will miss playing here in Montreal in the future.  
   
 Q.   What are these other challenges?  
MARIE‑EVE PELLETIER:   Nothing precise.   I would like to stay in the world of tennis, help younger players maybe, anything that would keep me close to the courts, coaching, because I like young players.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT