ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 13, 2007
Stephanie Dubois
Marie-Eve Pelletier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English. 

 Q.  Just wanted to know your thoughts about playing at home as you've done in the past?  But certainly in light of what Frank did last week, and how that may motivate you a little bit more this week? 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  Yeah, it's great inspiration to see.  I was there in Montreal last week watching him play.  And it's really nice to see how well he was playing, also to see that another Canadian is doing like so good. 
 So I'm looking forward to try and go in the same path.  But it's a lot to ask, but I'll do my best. 

 Q.  I hope you don't mind, I'm asking this about the Fed Cup.  I'm writing a profile on Shahar Peer, and I know you both played her.  What I wanted to ask about her from you is what makes her a very, very tough opponent?  She came into Canada, won two tough matches.  Is it basically her approach to the game or is it her forehand or mental approach? 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  I think her two strengths are mental and fitness-wise.  I think she's very quick, and she's got great fitness.  And mentally, she's a good fighter, so I think that's what makes her, she's a hard worker, so. For sure her forehand is a good shot also.  But I think that's what describes her the best, like her best shot. 

 Q.  I'm also writing a feature about Sharon Fichman.  I know Sharon's ranking went down a little bit, but she's still fairly young.  Do you feel from what you know and you both played with her, that she has the talent basically to maybe in a couple of years be a top Canadian? 
 MARIE-EVE PELLETIER:  Yeah, for sure.  She's a really good player.  She's young, and she has really potential to be a really good player in the future. 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  I think it depends on how much she wants it.  Because I'm not sure.  I thought she decided to go to college and things before, so.  But for sure, she's got talent, and we'll see what happens. 

 Q.  If I could just get you in English to talk about your matches tomorrow. 
 MARIE-EVE PELLETIER:  For sure, tomorrow I'm looking forward to play.  She's a really experienced girl.  She's been on the tour for a long time, so, for sure I'll go on the court tomorrow and give my best and do the things that I have to do. 
 My objective is to be really aggressive and just believe in my shots and just believe in myself.  And we'll see what happens.  But I am really confident.  I had a few good weeks the weeks before.  So it's going to be a battle, and she's a great player. 
 She had really good results, so I think it's going to be -- I'll enjoy my match tomorrow and I'll give everything I have. 
 STEPHANIE DUBOIS:  I am looking forward to tomorrow.  Like I said, it's kind of too bad two Canadians have to play.  But at the same time, that means that for sure one will go through.  And get a chance to play Jankovic, so that will be a great opportunity.  I would love that. 
 And yeah, I think -- I mean, I played her two weeks ago and I thought she was playing pretty well.  And now she just qualified, so she'll be coming up now with a lot of confidence since it's probably her best win she had in the quallies.  But I'll be ready to give it my all and see if maybe experience can go my way. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT