MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 17, 2017
Adrian Mannarino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MANNARINO/G. Garcia-Lopez
1-6, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. Are you happy?
ADRIAN MANNARINO: A victory is always satisfying in Monaco or elsewhere.  This is a Masters Series, so it's even better.  I'm satisfied that I won today.
Q. Maybe it's a bit more important than elsewhere?
ADRIAN MANNARINO: That right.  I'm happy I was able to adapt on clay.  I was practicing 10 days before coming to this tournament.  Usually it takes a few weeks before I can adapt.
This year, during this first tournament, I'm already able to play a good match.  It's encouraging.
Q. You were able to turn it around in the second set.
ADRIAN MANNARINO: He started off the match very well.  He was making very few mistakes.  In the beginning of the second set, I was able to be more competitive.  Since he hadn't felt any stress before that, he started having some doubts, and I was able to raise my level.  So physically and tennis-wise, the last two sets were pretty good.
Q. (No microphone.)
ADRIAN MANNARINO: I am with Horacio, and Stephane is taking care of me, too.  In the TCP, I can see him.  I took advantage of school holidays to work with him because he had more time.  He came here to help me.
It's working well.  I'm really grateful for all the efforts he made.  He didn't have to.  It's always good to have someone supporting you, helping you work on your game.
For the time being, he's working for a tennis club.  He can't go elsewhere.  In June, the year will be over for him, and he will have more time during the summer.  So if he wants to, he might work with me then.  But for the time being, we are not thinking about the future too much.
Q. A different coach every tournament?
ADRIAN MANNARINO: Yes, one different coach every tournament.  But these two people are people I know well.  It's quite easy to work together because we know the routines of each other.  Of course, I would like to always have the same coach, but it's not easy.  There are not many people available on the tour who want to travel so much.
I'm just doing things day by day.  I'm trying to find something more stable, of course.
Q. What about your match against Jo?
ADRIAN MANNARINO: I played him in Miami.  He won easily.  But here the conditions are different.  The circumstances are different.  It will be a different match.
It's going to be a very pleasant game for me.  I've seen him play on TV a hundred times.  Playing against him is great.  I hope I'll enjoy the match.  I'm going to do my best on the court.
You know, when you're young, you watch the Davis Cup and the French Open.  Jo was a French player that had particularly good results.  I was watching him.  I'm French also, and I always supported French players.  I always supported Jo in these big matches.
It's going to be different to play him and be across the net.  But I have to forget about all that and I will need to focus on myself to play a good match.
Q. Do you like clay?
ADRIAN MANNARINO: I don't really enjoy playing on clay.  It's a more demanding surface.  I tried to make greater efforts.  If you have to play in Bucharest in the rain, 6 degrees Celsius, you don't want to make efforts.
Here it's different.  I have friends around me.  They come and watch my matches.  Everything is here to help me.  I really enjoy playing here.
Q. (No microphone.)
ADRIAN MANNARINO: Should I keep my atypical game on clay or should I consider a clay court game?  There are a hundred of players that play clay court games better than I do, so I have to use my own qualities.
I'm not really playing a hard court game on clay, but I'm not really playing a clay court game either.  I'm making some adjustments, not big ones, but they are there.
Of course, the footwork is totally different.  You have to accept playing longer rallies instead of playing two shots.  The bounces are irregular, so you can't take the ball as early.
After four or five tournaments, I always end up thinking I should play as I play on hard courts, and no longer try to change my game.
Q. (Question regarding Jo.)
ADRIAN MANNARINO: We get along very well.  We said hello.  I was told I was playing Jo, but I never saw him as a potential opponent.  We really getting along very well among the French players.  I get along with everyone, at least myself.  I have no problems with that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT