BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 27, 2014
Adrian Mannarino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MANNARINO/P. Herbert
  7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   So it was a match posing two French players with a wildcard.   Was it special?
ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Well, I didn't expect it would be so tense.   There was a lot of pressure.
I was talking about it to my coach before the match, and he said, Of course you will not play your best tennis today, for sure.   You will need to really concentrate.
But at the end of the first set I saw that the level of my game wasn't good enough, and I succeeded in doing something today that I was not able to do in the past.   I was not playing well, but I was able to accept it and just to say I will have to do what I can with what I have to today.
So it was difficult to focus.   Usually I just lose my concentration, but here I was able to stay in that match.   So, well, I helped him a little to break me in the first set, but then I was able to be up in the score and I played more relaxed. 
I was thinking, you know, You're not playing well since the beginning of the match, so what should you try to do?   Should you try to be more aggressive or just try to put the ball in?   And that is the second option I chose. 
Until the end he made mistakes, so I was able to pull that through.   Sometimes if you stay passive like this, the other player might play winners and you lose the match.
Maybe other times I would not be as lucky as I was today, but I'm very pleased with that result.

Q.   A good attitude, then?
ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Yes, for once something I'm working on is working, so I'm satisfied. 

Q.   What do you expect in the next match against Berdych?
ADRIAN MANNARINO:   It's going to be a very complicated match.   I played him twice I believe in the past.   I saw him play in Stockholm recently, and I know he plays very well.   He has a very big serve, and as soon as he has the opportunity of being aggressive on a higher ball in the middle of the court, he always makes it like a penalty.
What I need to do is try to make him move around, because he's going to try to play in just two shots hitting very hard.   So if I'm able to make him play more, I might have a chance. 
I know Gilles Simon has a game that disturbs him a lot, because Gilles Simon plays long shots and keeps him in the middle of the court, so I'll talk with my coach and we'll see what I'm going to do.

Q.   Well, precisely.   You have opposite styles of game.   Are you going to be aggressive or are you going to try to play like Gilles with the sort of shots without any rhythm or things like that?
ADRIAN MANNARINO:   I didn't think about it yet.   I played him in Queen's, and I felt I had played a good match there.   I was able to make him run a lot and counterattack whenever I had the opportunity.   But even if I played well I still lost in straight sets, so I need to change my tactics for the next match.
But until now I didn't really have a look at the draw very thoroughly, so I didn't think about it yet.

Q.   (Question about the season.) 
ADRIAN MANNARINO:   It was a catastrophic season.   I was able to pass the first round in the French Open, but apart from that, the results were bad. 
But after the French Open, I improved my game a lot.   I won many matches, but I played challengers, I must say.   But this gave me confidence, and in the end I won many points between June and now.     I just don't want to think about how I won them, but this is a fact, because with my coach, in the French Open, we said I needed just to finish the year with an acceptable ranking but I would be working a lot during the winter to be ready for next year. 
For the time being, things are going well.   And sometimes I have been a bit lucky with the draws.   Things are going pretty well, and I hope it's going to continue that way. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT