ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2014
Adrian Mannarino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. GARCIA‑LOPEZ/A. Mannarino
      6‑4, 6‑3, 4‑6, 6‑0

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please. 

Q.   What will you remember from this match?   You were very close at some stage of the fourth set.   Maybe you lacked some stamina to upset him more. 
    ADRIAN MANNARINO:   In the fourth set he played really well.   Not much I can say about that.   He missed nothing.
    First two games were essential, and he managed them better than I did. 

Q.   And generally speaking regarding the match, what will you remember, and especially regarding your game level? 
    ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Really, right now I don't remember much.   He served well; I didn't.   That made the difference.
    He was leading the rallies; I wasn't.   That's what made the difference.

Q.   First set you had a break chance twice. 
    ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Yes, I served really badly, and that changed everything.   The sun was there for five minutes at 4‑3 during the break, and that was all we had. 
    It was like that, and next time I'll have to serve better.

Q.   Although you lost, you won your first match in Roland Garros, and that's what you need to remember.   You gave a hard time to Garcia‑Lopez who defeated Wawrinka. 
    ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Yes, of course there are some positive things.   Fifteen minutes after having lost this is not exactly what I'm thinking about.
    Okay, I went through the first round in Roland Garros.   Nothing worth writing home about.   At least nobody will talk about that to me anymore.   Maybe I'll do better next year.
    It's frustrating to lose a match like this.   It was close.   It's all the more frustrating because it is Roland Garros. 

Q.   Garcia‑Lopez is typically a type of player who's really difficult on clay.   He pushes the ball back all the time.   You look pessimistic, but you didn't do a bad match. 
    ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Yes, I didn't play a bad match, but I'm disappointed because I thought I might have won.   If I had served better, if I had had a first serve out of 20 and if I had been better in the rallies, my game quality would've improved and that would've made the difference.
    It's the beginning of everything.   The serve, it's probably the most important shot, and today his was better.   That made the difference.

Q.   Any positives regarding the tournament and the second round? 
    ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Yes, of course.   I could have lost in the first round.   I made more money, more points.   Better than nothing. 
    I don't really think about that.   It is difficult.   There is definitely something positive, but I'll have to think about it and I'll have to work on this and try and draw a lesson for the future.
    Right now I'm disappointed, and disappointment is really most important. 

Q.   Are you going to continue with Eric Prodon, or was it just for this tournament?   What about the future?   Will you think about it together? 
    ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Yes, we're going to think about it together.   There is no hurry.   I don't want to start something with a coach just for a month or two, so I'm going to take the time to ask myself the right questions and to take sound decisions. 
    If I started working with him as a coach, it's because I thought we might do something together for some time.   Right now things are going really well.   It's always like that at the beginning of a relationship, obviously. 
    But we have to talk about it.   Up until now, it was a one‑shot for Roland Garros he was helping me.   He was available; I was looking for a coach.   I thought that would be a good idea, that he was the right person to help me here.
    But now we're going to take the time to discuss the future.   We'll see.   We'll see what gives.   He made me win one match in Roland Garros.   That's already an achievement.

Q.   Did you feel that Eric already was becoming a coach because he's coming out of some extremely good qualifiers?   Did you get the feeling he was already a coach? 
    ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Well, not really.   I mean, we're a group of players.   We are second fiddles in French tennis, but we're hanging together.   At the challengers, we go and watch each other's matches; we support each other. 
    Obviously I'm not his coach, but I am not going to prevent myself from watching his matches during the qualifiers.   When you like somebody‑‑ I mean, it's happened to me with other players.   When they play their matches and if they lose, I'm really sad.   I'm really disappointed for them.
    So he won a very good qualifier match at the end of the third set and we were very happy and we had a very nice evening.   It's the same for him.   He's supporting me.   He's trying to give me advice. 
    But he's also a friend, and that is taken the upper hand in our relationship.   We've called each other on the phone more often in the last three days than we had throughout our life. 
    But it was good, because I really enjoyed sharing Roland Garros with him.   We really love that, both of us.

Q.   Five months ago you won the Noumea challenger.   Five months down the road, what do you think?   How do you assess these five months? 
    ADRIAN MANNARINO:   It's more than five months, it's one year and five months. 

Q.   Okay.   Sorry. 
    ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Yes, a lot has happened in the meantime.   Too many things have happened for me to try and assess the last year with this tournament. 
    Obviously I had a very good year last year and it started there.   Whether it's Noumea or elsewhere, it adds to your confidence and everything becomes easier.
    On the other hand, when you have a streak of losses, everything becomes more difficult.   It's the same for all tennis players. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT