US OPEN
September 4, 2020
Adrian Mannarino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Could you explain why the match was delayed at the start?  Were you told at any point today that you would not be allowed to play this match?
 ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Well, I was preparing to go on court.  Actually was like 2:30.  We knew there was a not before 2:30.  I was just trying to get ready, warming up with my coach.  I was actually ready to go on court.  It was 2:30 or something.
 The tour manager came to talk to me at this time.  He explained me the situation.  Obviously the State Department of Health took over the City actually.  The City actually allowed me to play with a new protocol on Sunday.  Obviously the State took over this decision to say that I've been exposed to a positive case obviously, so I should be quarantined in my room and not be able to go on the tennis court and play the match today.
 They told me they were trying to contact on phone some guys to see if this decision could be changed.  Obviously many effort has been done.  They told me, Okay, we decided to put your match not before 5:00.  Sascha agreed, which is nice.  They told me, We're going to have a look at the situation, trying to see if we can get you on court today, which obviously they did.
 Many things might have been happening during this time.  I was just trying to get ready.  I said myself to be ready to go on court at 5:00.  I told my coach if anything happen, I give him my phone, I say, Just try to see what's going on, I'll let you handle all these things, I'm just going to try to eat something, get ready, focus, just be prepared as if I was going on court at 5:00.  Let's see if I'm not able to go, then I'm not able to go.  But if I'm in a position to be able to play, I just want to be ready.
 I just want to be thankful to all these people who have been trying to get me on court today.  As I say, many effort has been done.  I was able to play my tennis match.  I'm pretty happy about that.
 Then I heard actually around 4:30 or 4:40 that I've been allowed to go on court today.  I needed to be prepared to go at 5:00, which I did.  Happen what happened.  Unfortunately I lost the match.  But still, as I said, I'm happy I was on court.
 Q. Did you have any sense or inclination this might happen?  Several French players have been particularly vocal about how the bubble within a bubble is working.  Did this catch you by surprise or were you prepared for the possibility?
 ADRIAN MANNARINO:   I didn't know that the situation could changed for myself.  On Sunday actually when they told us we were eligible to play the tournament, if we agreed on the new protocol, that we also signed, all the players who were in my situation, we signed the paper from the City Department of Health of New York, I think, giving us some new protocol, what we might call restrictions not to be in contact with all the players.  A huge organization has been done around us just to make us allowed to play.
 I didn't know that they could, the State, could take over this decision.  I don't know all the rules.  I'm not into that.  I'm a tennis player actually.  But, yeah, that was a big news to me when it came.  I mean, I was ready to go on court.  I was warming up, sweating, just focused on my match.  All these things happen in a sudden.  It was a weird situation for me.  Actually, I didn't know what to think.  I was just laying on the sofa still trying to be focused just in case I would go on court.
 But, yeah, to answer your question, I didn't know that in my situation, as I was still in the draw, the situation could change.  Obviously for all the players in my situation who lost yesterday, we've been told that we would still be able to practice on-site with the new protocol, be able to come on-site if we were still tested every day.
 But I heard this morning that actually they would have to stay in their hotel room for the rest of their quarantine.  I knew that things have been changed for their conditions.  Yeah, if I just think about it, I could realize that things could be changed in my situation, too.  I was not really thinking about it.  As you know, I was trying to prepare a really tough match.  I was just focused on that, warming up, eating, being ready, so...
 Yeah, many things happened today.  But me, I was just thinking about the match actually.
 Q. Did any of you players consider consulting with a lawyer?  It seems you are signing new waivers and things are changing overnight.  Has anyone considered consulting a lawyer?
 ADRIAN MANNARINO:   I didn't consider that, no, no, no.  I don't want to talk for other.  I don't know their situation.  I don't know what the deal or anything.  For my situation, no, I never think about that.
 As I said in the last few days the tournament made a lot of effort for me to still be able to compete in the tournament.  Not at any time I've been thinking about consulting a lawyer or anything.  I was just kind of happy to be in my situation to be able to play.  That's it.
 Q. Will you be allowed to leave New York before the 12th?  What is the general feeling among the other French players?  Is there any anger?
 ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Is there any what?
 Q. Is there any anger?
 ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Well, the situation is what it is.  I know that I'm not going to be able to leave New York before next Friday in my situation.  It's a different situation for every single person because depending of what was the last time you've been exposed to Benoit.
 From my memory, my coach is not going to be allowed to leave before Saturday.  But me, as I haven't been in contact with him a little bit before, I'm going to be able to leave maybe one day before him.
 No, I don't know exactly or officially how is my situation right now.  Obviously I think that I'm going to have to stay quarantined in my room for the next seven days or something, at least until next Friday.  Then let's see.
 I've just finished my match.  I'm not trying to think about that.  My match was pretty intense.  I'm just trying to recover now.
 Q. Can you confirm that the other players are still isolated at the hotel, including Benoit Paire?
 ADRIAN MANNARINO:   Yes, they are.  They're in their room.
 Q. One of the women players from France called this a nightmare.  What do you call it?  How disappointed are you?  Your groin situation, were you hurt during the match?
 ADRIAN MANNARINO:   How can I say?  I'm not going to call it a nightmare, that's for sure.  I've been playing the tournament, maybe a special tournament this time.  I've been allowed to play.  I've been able to play.  They put me in a situation that I could give my best on court.  I'm not going to complain about that.
 Concerning my injury on court, I felt something at the end of the second set.  During two sets I think that I've been producing a pretty good tennis.  I was feeling well on court.  Obviously Sascha made me run a lot.  It's the second tournament after a long, long time with no tournament.  Maybe my body was not prepared for that.  I've been playing two intense match before.  I was pretty tired today.  Yesterday, as well, during my practice, I was not feeling well.
 Obviously my body was okay for two match but not for three.  During the third and the fourth set, I was not able to give my best.  I couldn't run as I could before.  With my game, I need to be really fit, moving quick.  That was not the case on court.  Sascha was playing really well.  I have no chance to beat these kind of players if I'm not able to give my best on court.  Yeah, he was the best today.
 Injuries are a part of the game.  If I'm not able to give my best on court, that means he's the best player on court.  That's it.  I'm going to try to work on my body, trying to be ready for the next one, and we'll see.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT