UNIVERSITY OF TULSA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2020
Davis Brin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Tulsa Golden Hurricane 30, Tulane Green Wave 24
.
Q. You can't think you were going to be in that situation or have the performance you did, I know it's a whirlwind, but can you speak right now?
DAVIS BRIN:   Yeah, it's been an unbelievable night, and I've just prepared for the past three years and waiting on my opportunity to take advantage of it.  I got that call and I knew that's what I had to do and felt really confident about it.
Q. The last play, can you walk us through that?
DAVIS BRIN:   Regulation?
Q. The Hail Mary one.  And your thought when you saw it, and he went down and the review.
DAVIS BRIN:   I knew it was going to be the last play of the game.  I knew we had guys going into the end zone and took the snap and wanted to buy myself some time and got out to the right a little bit and saw JC and all those guys down there and threw it up and came down with it.
Q. What was it like seeing the completion, the referee's arms going up?
DAVIS BRIN:   Yeah, it was insane.  I couldn't really process it.  I kind of froze, stood there, like we just scored a touchdown.  Let's go win this game.
Q. Did you realize when you got hit that you threw an absolute dime?
DAVIS BRIN:   Not necessarily.  I think he got up and saw it being caught and so just everything was good from there.
Q. Did you think you would be talking to us tonight?
DAVIS BRIN:   Definitely not.  I always stay prepared but when God is going to give me that opportunity, just happened to be my night and took advantage of it.
Q. What were the guys saying after the game?
DAVIS BRIN:   Everybody's just so pumped.  I mean, everybody did such a great job tonight.  Defense was great and O-Line was blocking for me, absolutely phenomenal.  We went and got it done, fought for 60 minutes plus some.
Q. You came back and tied the game at 14, that was an incredible comeback and incredible play back in the end zone.  Talk about that play, because that was really tough.
DAVIS BRIN:   We just kept fighting and found the end zone.  We just kept finding the end zone and kept rolling.  I'm just so proud of my guys.
Q. You've seen a lot of these, past few games, you've watched this team come back and you've been part of that obviously from the sideline.  But is it any different leading them to a comeback like this, especially in a game this big?
DAVIS BRIN:   Yeah, definitely being on the sideline, always have that same mentality, stay positive and try to get everything to go your way and don't doubt anything.  Just being able to lead tonight was something I'm so thankful for.  This opportunity has been amazing.  We're going to keep rolling.
Q. You talk about staying ready, but when that happened, not one, but two quarterbacks go down, did you feel you were ready?
DAVIS BRIN:   Definitely.  Definitely.  Everything was ready to roll.  I mean, as soon as I got the call, I was -- got a ball in my hand, started warming up and started getting confident and I threw that first pass, that screen over to the left and got me some confidence and then we went from there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT