DICK'S SPORTING GOODS NIT SEASON TIP-OFF
November 25, 2009
Trent Johnson
Storm Warren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Storm Warren, please?   
 STORM WARREN: This is Storm Warren.  
  
  Q. Were they tougher than you thought, Storm, or were they more aggressive on the boards because they hadn't rebounded so well going into the game?   
 STORM WARREN: We just got to come out ready to play from the jump. We just we have to come out ready.   
  
  Q. Was size a big issue, Storm? It seemed like they started a pretty big front line, 6'9", 6'9". Was that difficult?   
 STORM WARREN: It was a challenge. We have to step up and accept the challenge and be ready to play, regardless what they have or who they have.   
  
  Q. When you were effective, what did you do well to score inside against the big guys?   
 STORM WARREN: I started off kind of anxious, just coming up and playing. But had to calm myself down and just slow down and just play my game.   
 THE MODERATOR: Any other questions for the player?   
  
  Q. You have Thanksgiving tomorrow. Will you try to just kind of regroup and enjoy Thanksgiving before you come back out Friday?   
 STORM WARREN: Well, basically, the game is over. So only thing we can do is just take this as an experience and just learn from it and build off of it, come back ready to play.   
 THE MODERATOR: Anything else? The coach is going to make an opening statement and then take questions.   
 COACH TRENT JOHNSON: Obviously that was a pretty good basketball team and they were very well prepared and ready to go. For me personally I was very disturbed by the transition baskets that we gave up early. It has nothing to do with speed on the court; mental and physical toughness and their effort. You're going into this year, we knew that there were some concerns in that regard. And it's good it got exposed early on in the year. So we can move forward from there.   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
  
  Q. What was tough about their press? What was difficult about your player's response to it?   
 COACH TRENT JOHNSON: Again, I'm not taking anything away from them. The press we made some ill-advised bad passes and it basically came from two of our veterans, Tasmin and Bo. The key to the game was transition made us miss and our inability to put a body on them and be physical and respond and step up to their physicality.   
 And for me, I look at Eddie Ludwig, the redhead kid freshman from Country Day, he takes two charges. He just got here and he got in the post and they have two good situations where the guy had an angle to the basket and he did a good job. You look at the veterans who have been around, a guy like Garrett Green, three-year guy, so on and so forth. It was just from my standpoint, we got exposed early and often, and those things are all correctable.   
 THE MODERATOR: Any other questions for Coach?   
  
  Q. Coach, Coach Calhoun has put the pressure on Kemba Walker a lot. A lot is expected from him. Kind of a slow start. What was your overall impression of him?   
 COACH TRENT JOHNSON: My overall impression of him and Dyson were like what I saw in videotape and what I said earlier in the press conference that Coach probably wasn't happy with the way his team has played the previous three games. You knew they were going to be ready.   
 Walker is very good with the basketball. He's quick. It's an extension of his hand. He does a good job of running the team. The thing again, he's playing for a guy that holds him accountable every step of the way. And getting beat like this is -- I don't like winning when you don't play well. Getting beat like this against a team like that really, really exposes you and some of the things that I talked to this group about, our group, they were exposed.   
 So now we move forward and see how good a team we're going to be. That's a good thing about being in New York. You get exposed and everybody is watching. So I like it. I'm not necessarily talking about my players; I'm talking about me also.   
  
  Q. Did you expect to rebound a little better?   
 COACH TRENT JOHNSON: I did.   
  
  Q. They had some trouble in that department.   
 COACH TRENT JOHNSON: I did. I expected to have a little better transition defense too. I did. And that has to do with effort, constant effort.   
 THE MODERATOR: Anything else for Coach?   
 COACH TRENT JOHNSON: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT