BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 11, 2015
Kyan Anderson
Trent Johnson
Trey Zeigler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We have been joined by TCU, Horned Frogs on the stage.   We are joined now by Coach Trent Johnson and his two student athletes, Kyan Anderson and Trey Zeigler.   Coach, congratulations on the victory, your thoughts? 
COACH JOHNSON:   Thank you very much.   First and foremost, this is a time of year where you need to get good guard play and these two guys have been steppin' up all year long and they're both seniors, but I thought they did a really, really good job of handling the ball and getting us into the offense.   We had to make a few adjustments, because they put a lot of pressure on Kyan and were really physical, like they have been all year long.   So we put the ball in Trey's hands and they did a really good job of handling pressure and K‑State is a good basketball team.   This is a team, the nucleus of everybody on that squad was in the NCAA tournament last year. 
And we defended better the second half.   We had our problems of getting stops and tonight was a good effort all the way around. 

Q.   Kyan and Trey, do you feel like this means something for you guys to show your senior year, a Big 12 tournament game win, no matter what else happens? 
TREY ZEIGLER:   Definitely.   We came in here very confident.   We ended the season on a high note.   We felt like overall we played well even though we didn't finish our games.   We came in here and we knew Kansas State was a good team and me and Kyan just tried to make sure we did everything we could do as senior captains. 
KYAN ANDERSON:   Like Trey said, we came in here to do the best we could.   We tried to stop them in transition, things like that.   They tried to take me out early and Trey showed up big. 

Q.   Guys, now you're set to play Kansas tomorrow.   You played them tough during the regular season.   Do you foresee having a better game against them now that you've played them really well twice before? 
TREY ZEIGLER:   Well, we match up well with Kansas.   We feel like they play the same style of basketball we do.   They're a tough, physical, defensive team. 
We're looking forward to that match‑up tomorrow and hopefully, like you said, we had two good games against them so hopefully we can continue to compete and try to get a win tomorrow. 
KYAN ANDERSON:   I feel like it's hard to beat a team three times, especially until a conference like this.   It's definitely going to be tough to try to pull that out, but we're going to do our best. 

Q.   Coach Johnson, can you describes the contributions that Chris Washburn made for you today? 
COACH JOHNSON:   Yeah, that was his best game all year long, 16 and 8.   I thought he did a good job of giving us a post presence and he got happy hands and happy feet there late.   But for the most part, this was his best game all year. 

Q.   Kyan, did you get a sense late in the game that this was going to be y'all's game? 
KYAN ANDERSON:   Coming into it we thought it was going to be our game so that's just the mentality we have, but, yeah, when it got down to the end, I told these guys, try to make the solid plays, don't lose aggressiveness and just make solid plays down the stretch and we did that. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, gentlemen.   Congratulations, and we will see you tomorrow. 

Q.   Coach, what did you think of your team's effort especially on the offensive boards tonight? 
COACH JOHNSON:   Well, for the most part we‑‑ these kids have given great effort.   Sometimes in the "W" and the loss column hasn't always been good, but it has a lot to do with who you're playing.   I mean, that's been pretty consistent. 
I think the one thing we have done the last month is we have shot the ball with confidence and that's the big thing for us right now. 

Q.   Your thoughts on Kansas? 
COACH JOHNSON:   Premiere team in this league, one of the premiere teams in the country.   No basketball program has a more storied tradition than they do and we've got to find a way to compete at a high level in a short period of time, and it's just a supreme challenge.   It always has been.

Q.   Coach, I was just curious from your standpoint going against Nino and Thomas Gipson the final time this senior season, can you talk about what it's been like going against those guys and what they brought tonight in their final game? 
COACH JOHNSON:   Well, having competed against them in three years they appear to be great kids, two really great competitors and I hope K‑State doesn't have anybody in their future like them. 
Gipson, he's a load in the post, he causes so many problems.   And Nino, my hats off to him, because I understand there was a loss in the family or something like that, the reason he wasn't here, if I'm not mistaken.   But for him to come out and play and compete at the level he competed at that speaks volume to the kind of kid he is and the kind of kid both of those guys are‑‑ excuse me, men, because those are two men, believe me. 
THE MODERATOR:   Coach, congratulations, see you tomorrow.   Good luck.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT