NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 7, 1999
Joseph Chebet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOSEPH CHEBET: Maybe. I would like to recognize New York City Marathon for inviting me
to this race and also the members and people of New York for their good job all the way
from the start to the finish. Maybe what I can say on that -- maybe if I start for maybe
let's say from Central Park after we, me and Castro we fight along the park. Castro
started to push and I was trying to close the gap. So I think he tried more than three,
four times trying to open the gap that I was closing. Then finally when I saw him that he
was a bit tired then I tried to open the gap. So I used a lot of energy trying to leave
him maybe for a distance. Then after that I was supposed to relax, I did, then I supposed
to (inaudible) then I was supposed to gain. So after me, tried to relax a bit, then it was
to the finishing line. So maybe if it was another two, five kilometers I was supposed
(inaudible) to relax a bit, then try to -- then I was supposed to (inaudible) -- there was
no problem on that.

Q. After the, I believe, it was after last year's race you spoke of having to change
things, change your approach. What exactly did you do differently in training and what did
you do differently in the late stages of the race today?

JOSEPH CHEBET: What I remember last year I think I-- (inaudible) my coach tell me that
that training was not enough so was supposed to help me, so I add one month training.
Because my coach tried to (inaudible) then same thing he tried, that I used this time that
because I remember when I was in Boston, I tried to chase very hard the mile from
(inaudible) so I needed last time that I was with him, same time to save my training was
for Boston, I keep myself (inaudible) because last year I was just a bit in the last 500
meters, my training was a bit different from last year.

Q. What did you do differently in the race this year during the race; did you have
different tactics so that you could win this year?

JOSEPH CHEBET: Maybe this year what I can say, because this year and last year, this
year is great event because this year they say that maybe the maximum they say (inaudible)
was supposed to be 64, maybe 64 something, so this year was not supposed to go faster,
(inaudible) so I think I was just relaxed because I tried -- I will not be maybe last year
maybe sometime I was supposed to go in front, lead for a short time, then go back, but
this year I didn't do anything so I was just behind (inaudible) last time when I was with
the Castro, then I tried to push then the time Castro maybe this year. (inaudible) I
didn't go there I was just --

Q. Were you aware that John Kagwe had dropped off when he dropped off there at 23
miles?

JOSEPH CHEBET: Maybe. I don't know because one kilometer to the pack, I didn't
(inaudible) why was Castro, Kagwe I think with somebody that come to (inaudible) -- that
is not the time I didn't see behind, so I was just watching because Castro was the lead
(inaudible) I have no time to look back because the time you look behind you lose
something or some contact, and I learned that you can go.

Q. You were disappointed the last two years being second. Can you just describe the
feeling today to be the winner compared to being second place here in New York?

JOSEPH CHEBET: I think I am very much happy because being second two times and maybe
now the lead, I say thank you to the organizers. I think give me an invite this year so I
can -- (inaudible) even my family very happy, because when I go to Kenya they tell me why,
why, why, (inaudible) Boston. I was big. In Kenya, they are happy with me so I am also
very happy.

Q. In Central Park did you ever feel that Castro might beat you?

JOSEPH CHEBET: Maybe what I can say, maybe from just Central Park I saw Castro was very
strong, he was trying to take the pace very high, so I tried to feel the pain, but I say
he is going to tell me (inaudible) I was thinking twice but why, because I was still very
strong, so I say (inaudible) that the time when I because he opened three times. When he
open, I closed the gap. So that is the time I think maybe this man I can beat him. All the
time when he wants to leave, I close him. Maybe I was even go 500 meters, that is not the
time you can beat him. (inaudible). I understand Castro is very strong the last 500 meters
that is maybe the place I was worried but not in the middle of the pack.

Q. Could you repeat, what would people in Kenya say to you after you came back last
year from New York? After your three second places in a row, what did they say to you in
Kenya?

JOSEPH CHEBET: When I go to Kenya they tell me you are strong, you are strong, they are
always happy. They tell me that you keep on training, keep on going to New York, then you
will win. Show they are all happy with me.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT