U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2017
Alexandr Dolgopolov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. DOLGOPOLOV/V. Troicki
6-1, 6-0, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What are your thoughts on the way you're playing and how you got through this match in such routine fashion?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: It's unbelievable, really.  It's one of my best matches lately.  I'm really happy that I'm healthy again.  I'm playing five-set matches, winning, you know, not just one but quite a few.
Now I'm in the second week, so it's unbelievable.
Q. You play Rafa Nadal next.  How would you describe what your approach will be to playing him?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: First, let him win (smiling).  He still has to win.
But if it's him, it's not any different.  I'm not a young player anymore.  I don't think I'm going to get intimidated by the No. 1 player or the stadium or the occasion.
If I'm comfortable, I'm healthy.  I'll just go there and try to win, because I beat him in three sets, but obviously a five-set match, only thing that worries me is staying mentally there and physically next to him, because he's really strong physically, I think.
Game-wise, you know, I'll have a plan.  Hopefully I can execute it and give him problems.
Q. If you had to say Rafa's greatest talent, greatest skill, is it just the forehand, his intensity?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: No, I think people underestimate he's all-around player, you know.  He serves solid.  He gives you, like, 70% first serves normally.  He's a lefty.  He volleys.  If you play defensive, he can come in and volley.
He's stronger than just the forehand.  It's not only the forehand that is the problem.  For sure, the five-set problem is his physical condition.  He's really strong, and in a five-setter, it's tougher to compete with him.
Q. With the investigation of that match raising attention, about the issue in general, what are your thoughts on the possibilities that there are matches that are, indeed, not on the level, perhaps, on the tour?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: Oh, I think that's why we have the TIU.  If there's some strange matches, you know, they investigate it.
Q. But do you think there are such matches that aren't just strange, that there are actually occurrences where players are not doing their best and there may be some gambling involved that is connected with that?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: I don't think about that.  I'm not the person that should comment about that.
I mean, you cannot be perfect every week, I think.  So, for sure, you can see bad matches, players playing bad.  But if there is gambling involved, it's not for me to say.
Q. Have you been interviewed by someone from the Tennis Integrity Unit about that Winston-Salem match?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: Yeah.  Straight after I came here, I wasn't happy with what's going on in the press, so I was the first one to come there and try to give them all the information so they can investigate it faster.
Q. What have they told you about where things stand with their investigation?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: I don't know.  I don't ask.  They asked me about some information.  They interviewed me.  That's it.  That's all I can do.
Q. What effect has having all this out in public about that had on you?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: Not much.  You can see I'm playing.  I'm fit.  I'm doing well.  Obviously it's disappointing, but not more.  If people want to write something, they write something.  You can't stop them from doing it.  It's just not under my control.
Q. In your career, have gamblers ever offered you the opportunity to throw a match?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: You're going all over it again.  You know my statement after the first match?  You're giving me the same questions.  I'm here not to talk about betting.  I already said everything that could be said, and you guys want to give me again the same questions or what?
Q. Well, part of it is that for some of us who work in television...
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: Read about what I said in the first day.  I arrived here to talk about tennis, not gambling.
Q. We just wanted to explain to you, though, in some of the rooms there are not cameras that record what's said.
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: So read about it on the Internet.  I gave a statement.  It's enough.  I'm not going to be talking about it every day.  Just because one of you didn't arrive or you have new questions, that's it.
Q. When you were asked, with all respect...
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: You heard what I just said?
Q. Yes, and I'd...
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: I'm not going to be talking about gambling.  You have other questions or not?  We're finished.
Q. Do you understand why...
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: You heard what I said or not?
Q. I'm the reporter and I'd like to ask my question in my way.
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: Is it about gambling?  Yes or no?
Q. My question --
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: No.  Yes or no?
Q. The question is -- I am the reporter; you're the athlete.  You can respond in any way what you want.  The question is:  Do you understand now the importance --
THE MODERATOR: He can ask the question.  You can just say "no comment," okay?
Q. The question, with all due respect, is:  Do you understand the importance why fans, officials, the media, feel that having integrity in this sport, why no match fixing is so important?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: I'm not commenting on gambling anymore.
THE MODERATOR: He's not commenting.  Are there any questions about tennis?
Q. You were speaking before about facing Rafa Nadal.  You mentioned the difference between three sets and five sets.  What are your observations of how he has returned to being seeded No. 1 and the challenge physically for him as he's gotten back here after a few years not being No. 1?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: I think he's a great player.  That's first of all.  When he's fit, when he doesn't have problems, you can see how he plays, especially the clay court swing.  He doesn't lose many matches.
I think that's where he has to be.  He won a lot of matches.  He won a lot of tournaments.  There he's No. 1.
Q. What has been the key when you've had success against him?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: I played great matches.  The match in Indian Wells, I was really confident.  I played good results before, good tournaments before.
So I was just playing relaxed and playing aggressive, and everything was working.  Second match I beat him on grass court where obviously he's a bit worse.  It's a bit better for me.  It's faster.  It's tougher for him to get balls back.  So that match was a bit easier, I would say.  Still three sets, still tight, but I think hard court is tougher to beat him.
Q. You have been through injuries and you have had some tough matches here, but what makes it special to play here at the US Open?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV: Well, first of all, some years, as you said, I wasn't able to compete here well.  Last year I had a back issue.  I stopped the season after US Open.
The year before I had an elbow issue.  I stopped in the first round in the middle of the match.  And the year before I had a knee surgery.
So three or four years I cannot compete here the way I want, so it's really nice to be back healthy and be playing well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT