SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 27, 2014
Alexandr Dolgopolov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/A. Dolgopolov
  6‑4, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You have obviously had a really great start to the season with some big wins.   Is there anything in particular that's been different or that you're feeling differently on the court?   I mean, can you explain it?   
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   Yeah, I mean, I don't think that you can do results like that just of luck.   So of course you can explain that usually when you're playing better, I worked more this year.   I had a good preparation, and that's pretty much it.  
I mean, I was playing quite good still ‑‑ the last year wasn't really successful, but, I mean, before that I was top 20, so I don't see why not I can't make those results.  
I'm really happy to be playing better again.  
   
 Q.   I'm going to ask you about a match the other day.   Dusan Lajovic, you played for the first time.   I don't know what you think about your performance.   It was a little bit lopsided, a bagel in the middle and the two other sets.   
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   Well, I think, I mean, the whole tournament here, my concentration was going up and down, up and down.   I mean, first match I played really well.   Then the second match was bad for me.   I was not feeling well physically.  
Then with Stan I played well again and was feeling good.   Today I was again really tired and disconcentrated.   I had my chances, but I gave away too many points.  
So it's been a tournament like that.   I knew it was going to be tough because I played too much tournaments straight.   The second round, I mean, for me, he was playing really, really well, because as I said, it was a tough day for me, and when you have a day like that, you think the opponent is playing really good all the time (smiling).   
So for me it's tough to judge.   I mean, obviously he's been playing quite good at that match, I think, the first and the third set.   The second set I think maybe I was a bit more aggressive.  
But overall, I think he's a good player.   He was solid from both sides, serving well.   He played good.  
   
 Q.   When you look back on this match today against Tomas, what do you take away from it?  
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   I mean, that I can still compete in the way I was feeling today, and even though I was disconcentrated a little bit, so I can still compete with a player like that.   That's great for me.  
I mean, I don't have too much emotions now.   I just want to get away from the ball and the court and the tournaments for some time.  
I mean, that's pretty much what I can take.   I don't think technically or physically there was much.   I mean, I played good and bad and all around the place, but overall I wasn't very terrible, so I'm happy with that, because, I mean, walking on the match I wanted to sleep and I was completely somewhere out there.  
So taking that in ‑‑I don't know how to say it, but anyway, if you take that, I think I have done quite well, even this match.   I'm obviously not happy to lose.   I had set point in the second set on my serve, so I had chances to go three sets, and first set I was a break up.  
I mean, it happens, and I'm happy to finish the series that I have done for seven weeks.  
   
 Q.   You had quite a fan base out there.   Did you hear them?   Did that help you?  
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   Yeah, I heard they were quite loud, yeah, and it's great.   It's great that people watch and support us.   I think every player enjoys when he's supported by the fans, so I'm thankful for that.  
   
 Q.   You said a little bit earlier that you have been playing a lot of tournaments and that's part of it, but obviously it's also that you're going deeper in the tournaments in a row.   I mean, is that something that, you know, you're going to need to think about going forward sort of in terms of your schedule, you know, taking some breaks here and there if you're going to the semis or going deep?  
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   Yeah, for sure.   I think the higher ranked, the less you need to play.   And the better you can play if you're confident, if you're more fit, if you get a few weeks of practice instead of playing all the time tournaments, that's much better.   
But at that time I couldn't afford it.   I was No. 54 when I arrived at the South American swing, so I needed some points like even small points.  
So now I can for sure change my schedule.   I can go for bigger tournaments.   I'm confident, playing well, so I don't need to play so many tournaments anymore.  
So I think that's what I will be doing.  
   
 Q.   Your father is now with you as your coach.   Can you attribute a lot of your success or your upswing to having him by your side?  
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   Yeah, for sure.   I think we, as I said, we had a good preparation of one month.   For sure, I mean, the results show ‑‑I mean, I'm always a person that looks at the results.   I mean, the words don't really matter.   If it works, it works.   If it doesn't, it doesn't.  
Obviously the last four weeks it's shown that the work has paid off, and we're going in a right direction.  
   
 Q.   Do you consider yourself a perfectionist?  
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   Yeah, for sure.   I think because even when I'm playing well and someone tells me I'm playing well, if I'm not happy with something, I won't say that I played perfect.  
So it's tough for me to say that something is perfect.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT