AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2012
Alexandr Dolgopolov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. DOLGOPOLOV/T. Kamke
  4‑6, 6‑1, 6‑1, 3‑6, 8‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How are you feeling?   Two five‑set matches.   How are the energy levels?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   Well, physically I feel fine.   You know, I was pretty much concerned from the first match.   I wasn't feeling good a bit health‑wise. 
First set today I was feeling also a bit tough, and then I got better and better.   It's been in the shade and not so hot.   Was feeling, I mean, better.   So I was happy with that. 
Yeah, happy to be in the next round.

Q.   Was it simply the heat or was there an illness or anything like that? 
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   I don't really know, you know.   I do have a bit of a blood condition, and I don't know if it's that. 
I didn't want to check it on the tournament, you know.   I will just do that when I come back home.   I will just have to deal with it and try to play my best. 

Q.   Obviously a tight five‑setter, 8‑6.   Confident the fact that you're able to get through that?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   Yeah, I think I played a pretty good game.   It was up and down a bit, but he played also some unbelievable shots.   He was playing very well.
I can't say‑‑ I mean, the first set wasn't too good for me.   I made a lot of unforced errors, but practically [sic], I mean, I played pretty well in the match.   I'm happy with that and happy with the physical level I showed. 
So all was good.

Q.   You have Bernard next match.   You've played him three times.   Where do you see him at the moment?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   Well, I think he's improved from last year, that's for sure. 
He had two tight matches, as well.   I think it will be tough, you know, if he plays well.   But as you said, I won all the three times, so that will give me a bit of confidence.   For sure I know how to play him. 
Yeah, depends how I'm going to be feeling what day it's gonna be a tight match.   The best player on that day will win.

Q.   What is the key to beating him?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   I think I'll have to show my game instead of going into his.   He varies a bit.   He plays all around the court, tries to break up your rhythm. 
If I can be aggressive, you know, and always control the points, try to hit a lot of winners, for sure.   Yeah, that's pretty much it.

Q.   Night match?   Would you prefer a night game?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   I don't really care. 

Q.   Were you surprised by Kamke today?
ALEXANDR DOLGOPOLOV:   Not really.   I think I know how he plays.   I have seen him for two or three years now on challenger level on ATP.   He's a good player.   You know, he can play really well sometimes, and sometimes he loses his level. 
I think today he was playing very well.   I had to show, you know, one of my best tennis and to beat him.   I know how he plays.   He has powerful shots and comes in and makes a lot of winners, so just try to hold on there.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT