WNBA ALL-STAR GAME
July 9, 2005
Sheryl Swoopes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SHERYL SWOOPES:  I would just like to start off by saying how excited I was to have an opportunity to play in yet another All-Star Game with the best players in the league, and even some of the best players in the world.  You know, starting the season off, I don't think anybody really expected the Comets to have the kind of season we've started off having and I don't think a lot of people really expected me to have the type of season I'm having.  So to come out here in this All-Star Game with so much great talent on both teams, the East and West, and for me to walk away with the MVP today is pretty special to me. 

Q.  Last season you had talked about how you were beginning to maybe lose a little bit of passion for the game or maybe getting a little tired; what changed?  It seems like you're having a lot more fun now. 

SHERYL SWOOPES:  You know, I think last season for us as a team, first of all, was very frustrating and very disappointing for us not to make the playoffs for the first time ever.  For me personally, there were just a lot of things that I dealt with, basketball-wise, personally, and I think the biggest thing was not being healthy, dealing with nagging injuries on a daily basis.  I got to a point to where it was just very frustrating and just didn't know if it was something I wanted to continue to deal with.  I didn't enjoy it.  I wasn't having fun, and I think that's the biggest difference.  You know, I came into this season with a completely different attitude, and the bestest thing is it's fun to me again.  I'm enjoying the game.  I've found that passion.  I absolutely love my team.  I love my teammates, and I just feel like we've finally gotten back to the point to where we have players on our team that are hungry for it again and have the desire and the fight and know what it takes to win.  Will it happen?  I don't know.  But I'm just enjoying playing with my teammates that I'm playing with this year.  Thank you. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT