NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
June 7, 1997
Terry Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Terry, I would think you would have to be proud of the  way the guys really showed some fight out there in this game tonight?
 
TERRY MURRAY:   Very proud, I look at our team and the way we played tonight, I thought probably the best game of the  series.  We come out and played hard.  Had a couple of breakdowns ended up in our net.  But, I think we showed a lot  more patience and played a pretty solid, a much better game, let me put it that way.   I look at our hockey club as a bunch of champions.  We didn't win the Championship, but in my eyes, we are a bunch of  champions. 
 

Q.  You have to lose one before you can win has been the  thing that has been said.  What do you --
 
TERRY MURRAY:   I am not going to have any choice in  that one now.  It is over.  We have got a lot to learn from these four games.  I think it has been a tremendous experience  for our hockey club, for our young guys, for all of us, for me, my first time here.  There has been mistakes that have been  made. There has been -- go take a look back and reflect on a lot of stuff.  But, you do have to get a taste of it.  You do  have to draw a lot of good things from what happened and this time we have just had-- 
  

Q.  Do you, at this point - I know it is just over - second guess anything you may have done over the last eight  days?
 
TERRY MURRAY:   Once things are over, the easiest  thing in the world to do is to second guess. 
 

Q.  Terry, could you comment on the way they way able to  hold Lindros --
 
TERRY MURRAY:   Detroit played great.  I am not going  to take away a thing from Detroit.  They were outstanding in the series.  They were poised.  They were ready to go.  They  were definitely on a mission in their series here.  Everyone played extremely well, shift after shift, a lot of intensity,  quickness to the puck.  I give everything to them.  They did a great job and congratulations to the Detroit Red Wings.   They have been a gone a long time without a Stanley Cup and many frustrating years, just going back two years ago  with an outstanding series and losing four straight in their own Final.  They learned from it.  They have gotten better.  They have made some changes.  They deserve to win.  They played better. 
  

Q.  Terry, did you want your guys to stay out there at the end and see the celebration and just have them remember that  moment, to give them that inspiration to come back next year?
 
TERRY MURRAY:   I don't think we need that kind of  inspiration to, you know, come back next year.  I am sure every one of the players in that locker room have seen what the  festivities are all about after the game is over.  We need to learn from this one.  That is all.  It is not how to hold the  trophy over your head.  It is how to get to the trophy that is going to be the most important thing to learn.  And, we will  improve because of these four games. 
 

Q.  Do you expect in the next few days to have something  definitively settled on your status and have an announcement on what is going to happen with you?
 
TERRY MURRAY:   Well, now that we will get back, after this is over, I am sure that, you know, there will be time and  we will sit down and talk and something will be worked out. And, whether there is something announced or not, I don't know  what the policy of the organization is on that.  But, we will sit down. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT