THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 6, 2015
Kevin Streelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Gave yourself a lot of chances today, didn't you?
KEVIN STREELMAN:   Yeah, I've been hitting the ball really well this week.   Finally got the putter hot and made a lot of birdies.   It was fun.

Q.   What was the difference in the course today compared to the first two days?
KEVIN STREELMAN:   It was pretty similar.   The greens are getting a little faster each day, as they tend to here.   There was a touch more wind today than we've had.   Today it was out of the north.   Tomorrow it's going to be out of the south, so it will be totally different.
But it's just a fun golf course to play.   You hit good shots, you get rewarded, and if not it can be pretty penal.

Q.   10‑under with a birdie at 15.   And then what's the thought process at 16, 17 and 18, because those holes can get away from you?
KEVIN STREELMAN:   Nice bunker save on 16.   The wind is off the left and the pin is tucked right.   You need to start it over the water to get close to that pin.   I baled out a touch on that.   Hit a nice bunker shot to get up and down. 
And then 17, you hit the right shot in there and you can use that bank on the front and funnel it in.   I was in between clubs, so I went with the longer club, and I couldn't quite get it there.   So it was nice for par. 
18, I was in between 6 and 7 and hit it long and hit a great two‑putt in the hole.

Q.   What about the thought process for tomorrow?   Do you think you have a chance for tomorrow?
KEVIN STREELMAN:   Yeah, we'll see where the leader gets to.   We're having a lot of fun.   The putter‑‑ a little thing clicked on the putting green.   If I keep that up tomorrow, it will be great.

Q.   Talk about your round.   Great round out there. 
KEVIN STREELMAN:   Thank you.   Drove it awesome.   Really put the ball where I needed to on the green.   Made a ton of putts today.   The greens are so are beautiful out here, they're getting firmer and faster each day.   It was nice to get out early and make some putts early.   Put me in the position to maybe have a chance tomorrow.

Q.   Some of the guys have said the course is playing tougher today than it has in the past two days, but there's been some low scores. 
KEVIN STREELMAN:   I wouldn't say it's tougher.   There's more wind today.   Today it's out of the north, and tomorrow it's coming out of the south.   Hopefully no one runs away with it.

Q.   Do you feel like you gave yourself‑‑ 7‑under, 65, ties the low rounds of the day, gives yourself a chance maybe for Sunday?
KEVIN STREELMAN:   Yeah.   All I can do is my best.   I try not to compare myself to others too much.   I played great today and try and do it again tomorrow.

Q.   Is the back nine important for you?   It's the tougher nine to get the 2‑under there, at least gives you a chance?
KEVIN STREELMAN:   It depends how people play it individually.   I probably play the back nine just as well as the front.   It suits my eye well.   But it can change any given day, as well.   The course is in great shape and it will be a great Sunday. 

Q.   It seems like your round, not only today but every day this week, has been made from the tee.   You've missed just one fairway each day, just missed three fairways all week.   Is that a safe assessment?
KEVIN STREELMAN:   I've been driving it great.   The fairways are generous.   It's a second‑shot golf course, kind of like Augusta.   Keep it in front of me and hit some nice iron shots and today found the putter.

Q.   The putter, you've got a new putter in the bag.   How comfortable are you with that blade?
KEVIN STREELMAN:   I switched from a toe putter to a face balanced putter.   Sometimes something new will help.   I putted phenomenally the first two days.   Hopefully I can keep it up tomorrow.

Q.   You moved north on the leaderboard big time.   Now you're going to go back and kick your feet up and watch what's going on with this tournament?
KEVIN STREELMAN:   The Blackhawks are playing.   I'm definitely going to watch that.   Hopefully no one runs away with it too much.

Q.   Do you wear a jersey when you watch the Blackhawks play?
KEVIN STREELMAN:   I'll keep that to myself. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT