SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 19, 2014
Kevin Streelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KEVIN STREELMAN:   It was a lot of fun.   It really felt like the Travelers out there, and it was a shame I hit such a good shot there on the last and just didn't hit the putt hard enough.   Overall really happy with the way I played and kind of stepped up this weekend, and I'm really excited to get the year started off right.  
   
 Q.   I thought that eagle putt on 16 was going down.   That did everything but find the cup.   
KEVIN STREELMAN:   Yeah, from my perspective you know it's too high, but you're playing it gets the break at the end, and just hung on that top lip.   Like I said, I hit a great shot in there and gave myself a great look, and maybe it's Ben's day.   
   
 Q.   You came charging around there a little bit.   
KEVIN STREELMAN:   That's what makes this golf course so fun.   When the winds are down and the golf course is this beautiful, you're going to make some birdies out here.   PGA TOUR professionals are going to make some birdies.   I just knew I needed to make as many as quickly as possible, and unfortunately was able to do that, and I wish I would have hit that putt a little harder on 18, but I tried my best.   I think it was a great way to start the year, whatever happens.  
   
 Q.   The scores were a little lower this year?  
KEVIN STREELMAN:   Yeah, it's higher, actually.   The rough this year was a little nasty, and the greens were firm enough where you could not control the ball out of the rough, so it was essential to hit the fairways.   That added an extra element out here where the scores are probably a touch higher than they normally are.  
   
 Q.   What do you take away from Vegas this weekend?  
KEVIN STREELMAN:   It's a great way to start the year, a lot of confidence, putter feels great, a fun week with my family.   My first sponsor, Tim St.John and his wife, are here.   It was about nine, ten years ago I showed up on their front door, a friend recommended me to go stay with him, and I was dead broke and lived on their couch for a few months.   They took me in and gave me a place to stay and a golf course to practice at and got me back on my feet and back on the road on the mini‑Tours.   To be able to share this with them is much more important than trophies or money.   
   
 Q.   Sounds like you're a winner in Vegas.   
KEVIN STREELMAN:   Yeah.   I met my wife here, too, 10 years ago, so I'm very fond of it.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT