TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2020
Kevin Streelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kevin, ultimately you come up just short. As you see things unfold, what's going through your head?
KEVIN STREELMAN: Yeah, I have to take a lot of positives. It's a little bit disappointing. I just played beautifully. That shot on 17, I just don't how it didn't come down that hill. Literally a foot left and it's a kick-in and maybe we'd have a chance at a playoff, but Dustin is playing beautifully. He's obviously tough to compete with when he's on top of his game.
But I sure love this place. It's very special for me to always get back here. The whole team is just incredible. Nathan and Andy, both Andys, are just the best in the business. It's an honor to be here. It's an honor to be a past champion, and plan to come back here for many more years to come.
Q. After the birdie on 13, as you look at 14 through 18, is there a moment that sticks out where you're like, I wish I would have been able to capitalize there?
KEVIN STREELMAN: Yeah, I didn't hit a great drive on 14. 15, it actually was a pretty nice pitch I hit across the green there. Just came out perfect to be honest with you, just had more spin than I expected and just didn't get down the hill. The shot on 16 was beautiful. I thought it was right next to Mackenzie's. I flushed it, but I think a little wind came up and ate it just a touch. And I hit great chip; I thought that had a chance of going in, as well. The shot on 17 was the dagger for me. Literally a foot left and that thing is tickling the hole. That was a bummer.
But played nice golf. To be in the heat there and to perform, it's what I do it for. Had a great run at Pebble, got a solo second there, and it's looking like another solo second. I wanted to win one for my kids. They've never seen me really win one, but there's more to play.
Q. How much does this buoy your season now that the PGA TOUR is back after the quarantine and you have a second solo second?
KEVIN STREELMAN: Yeah, coming off a few missed cuts, obviously I'm very happy with this. Being away from my family for three weeks is difficult. That was probably one of the hardest runs for me. Just kind of with quarantine life out here, you go back to the hotel and you just sit there by yourself and try and stay healthy, and it gets lonely.
But we're doing the best we can to put out a great product for our fans and our sponsors, and I'm proud of what Jay and his team have done. He's been here all week. Most people don't even realize that. He's there because he cares about us and he's doing it because he cares about his product and he cares about us, and I'm just really proud to call him our commissioner. We're doing our best.
Q. What were you thinking when you saw D.J. bogey 16?
KEVIN STREELMAN: Yeah, I thought making that putt on 18 would have been nice, obviously. The way he drove it on 18, he probably would have finished the deal anyway, but that being said, I knew I needed one more, and like I said, the one on 17 was the one I needed. That shot was so close to getting down the hill and being a kick-in. But hey, I did my best, and that's all I can ask for.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT