TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2014
Kevin Streelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Had a little premonition this morning.  
KEVIN STREELMAN:   Well, yeah, that was unbelievable.   I think I one‑putted so greens in a row there, and it just was a lot of fun.   I knew someone was going to have to go win that golf tournament.   This layout, it's so much fun to come down the stretch and have 15, and 17 if you hit a good drive, you can make birdie there.   
But to just put it all together is what I work for, practiced hard for, and it's been a really fun week.  
   
 Q.   Were you able to really‑‑ I mean you said 10 one‑putts in a row.   Were you able to save the lives obviously.  
KEVIN STREELMAN:   I guess so.   I kind of made a couple little changes this weekend.   I went and saw a new instructor and got some fresh ideas.   Darren May is an incredible person.   Saw him a lot the last few years.   Went and saw a guy named Wayne DeFrancesco, kind of gave me a couple little things to think about, and obviously clicked here the last few days.  
   
 Q.   I know obviously golf's important, but your family is important.   I saw you walking off 18.   You take your daughter Sophie there, carried her in with you to scoring.   That has to mean more than anything.  
KEVIN STREELMAN:   Yeah.   I mean honestly, I was thinking about her on those last couple of putts.   I was thinking, you know what, if these go in, great.   If not, great.   She's going to love me either way and we have a nice family vacation coming up either way.   So if we win this thing, awesome.   If not, it's not going to really‑‑  
   
 Q.   KJ and Sergio are at 14 playing 18.   Good luck and we'll talk to you again.  
KEVIN STREELMAN:   Thank you very much.   
   
 Q.   And you're sitting here, your beautiful wife and your daughter sofa I can't.   Now you just ripped off seven birdies in a row.   When did the round start to feel like something special is going to happen?  
KEVIN STREELMAN:   I made an awesome putt on 10, just looked at AJ and let's go shoot 29 on the back.   Got one better.   Fortunately I one‑putted 10 greens in a row.   Just one of those days where I felt like I couldn't miss.   Had a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   One‑putted the whole back 9.  
KEVIN STREELMAN:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   You got two guys to wait out, actually three with Aaron Baddeley, couple of birdie putts for tie.   Get ready for a playoff.   But hopefully you'll win this outright.  
KEVIN STREELMAN:   Yeah.   We'll see.   The other great players are great masters of the game.   See what happens.   Should be a lot of fun.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT