THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 20, 2020
Kevin Streelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. The eagle on 15, just take me through what you hit and what you saw?
 KEVIN STREELMAN:   Yeah, I hit a nice 3-wood down the middle there and had 154 to the pin.  Just sitting back left and I hit a 9-iron going right at the pin.  It was kind of uphill and we couldn't see where it ended up, but there was a gentleman behind the green.  He just lifted his thumbs up and no shouting or anything.  Just thumbs up.  I figured it was three to five feet or something, based on that reaction.
 Get up, walking up with my putter my caddie gave me, and there wasn't a ball on the green.  We had a laugh about it.  Just shows it's a little different without the fans.  That would have been a fun moment with some big energy with the fans, especially the great fans here in Boston and Providence.  But we are putting the best show we can for everybody and the golf's obviously high level.
 Q. You started 4-under on those first six holes and when you started on the back here, there's a little bit more difficult stretch than it is starting on the front here.  How big was it for to you get your round jump started?
 KEVIN STREELMAN:   Very nice, especially birdieing holes like 13 and 14.  14 is a beast.  To hole it on 15 is unexpected but actually had 30 feet for eagle on 18, and even three-putted that one unfortunately, and got right back at it and birdied 1 and 2 and finished with a really nice birdie on 8.  That was awesome.  It was playing 225 and hit a great 5-iron to eight, nine feet and buried that one.
 Just kind of did what I was supposed to today and you've got to keep pushing.  I think the wind is going to not be a major factor this weekend.  The weather looks beautiful.  The course in perfect shape.  I'm excited to get out in the morning with even better greens than we had today.
 Q. Since the restart you've been playing some pretty good golf.  Do you feel like you're playing your best golf now for the Playoffs?
 KEVIN STREELMAN:   Maybe.  We'll see.  Day-by-day.  This game comes and goes as it pleases but I'm comfortable with what I'm doing with my coach, Rob Rochel, has been awesome back in Phoenix with me and believe in what we're doing.  Keeping thing simple.  Trying to aim really well and work on my ball position and stick to my fawn did a mentals and keep putting well.  I know if I keep putting well, I'll be in the hunt come the weekend.
 Q. Is that what you say is part of your game that makes you happiest right now?
 KEVIN STREELMAN:   For me I've always been a good ball-striker, always top 30, 40, strokes gained off the tee.  Driving my ball is probably my best asset and when I hit my irons well, as long as I can be positive strokes gained putting I know I'm going to be in the hunt come Sunday.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT