DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2008
Kevin Streelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 11-under par, sitting inside the Top 5 right now, been playing really well.   
 KEVIN STREELMAN: Yeah, my game feels good. I'm putting great and striking it kind of the way I'm looking to, so it feels good.  
  
  Q. You've had two Top 10 finishes in a row. Is your confidence just brimming and easy to just go out there and play?  
 KEVIN STREELMAN: You know, we all get on streaks where you feel like things are going well, and you try to ride it as long as possible, and I feel like I've been playing some good golf.  
  
  Q. You've got yourself in another position going into the final two rounds. I've got to ask you, have you had any phone calls from Captain Azinger?  
 KEVIN STREELMAN: I have not. I'd love to have a discussion with him, but hey, I understand either way. I know I'm young and new out here, but I do feel I'm playing good golf and play with a lot of heart. I understand either way. It would be an incredible possibility, but if not, still been a dream year for me.   
  
  Q. I remember interviewing you after round two of the Buick Invitational, and you were wide-eyed talking about how excited you were being paired with Tiger, let alone being in contention. It seems like you're a lot more comfortable now seven months after that as far as media coverage and being in contention in golf tournaments. Is that true?  
 KEVIN STREELMAN: Yeah, I've been very blessed to have some situations and some great experience. Looking back, people I've played with and situations I've gotten myself into, they just continue to be great learning experiences for me. Hopefully you can continue to put yourself in those situations and you're going to break through some time or year, maybe this year, maybe next year, maybe the year after that. But just try and put myself in contention and see what happens.  
  
  Q. What moment in 2008 do you feel has been the strongest learning experience?  
 KEVIN STREELMAN: Strongest learning?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 KEVIN STREELMAN: Definitely when I played with Tiger was the biggest raucous surrounding it that you could imagine. So to test yourself in that environment was huge for me, and it was a great learning tool.  
  
  Q. So this week, the next two days, being in contention, what certain steps mentally do you feel you will apply to your rounds differently now that you've gone through what happened at Torrey Pines and then again at Torrey Pines?   
 KEVIN STREELMAN: It's just belief in yourself, belief in your game, and I just continue to -- hopefully I can continue to do what I've been doing. If I can shoot another 4-, 5-, 6-under each day, I'll have a good chance at the end of the day. If you have an off couple days, obviously you fall way back. I'll do my best. I'm very excited to get in next week. I know for sure I'll be in next week. That was a huge goal of my early in the year, so anything after that is icing on the cake.  
  
  Q. You seem like you're in contention every week now. What does that make you feel like?  
 KEVIN STREELMAN: Well, it's really just been three or four -- well, I guess three in a row. When you're playing well and you start doing that, I guess you kind of expect to, and that kind of helps your confidence that much more. You just go out and play, and you know you're playing well, then you just go out and let it happen instead of trying to find it or forcing yourself to find it. I haven't been practicing a ton. I'm not going to go to the range again today. I think rest and some relaxation is most important right now, especially with another big week coming up next week, and I'm just not going to grind and search for something that I feel is there right now.  
  
  Q. What does it feel like to be playing with these names you've probably followed most of your life?  
 KEVIN STREELMAN: It's very cool. It's living a dream come true. But at the same time, it's been a process. Right now I feel like I belong. I feel like one of the guys; when Vijay says "hey" to you and Tiger says, "Hey, Kev, what's going on," that's pretty cool. It's been a lot of hard work to get there.  
  
  Q. Tell me about your round today.   
 KEVIN STREELMAN: It was a disappointing start with a terrible three-putt at the first. The greens seemed to be a lot slower than yesterday. But after that, I just caught fire. Another 30 on that side gave me a 60 for two days on that back side. That's kind of cool.   
 The putter has been really feeling good on these greens particularly, so hopefully I can continue for two more days.  
  
  Q. Tell me about the blue belt, why you wear it?  
 KEVIN STREELMAN: It's a foundation that's called Ian's Friends Foundation, and a lot of the guys are wearing them this week, and he's a young guy who was diagnosed with brain cancer, and just kind of a showing of support and belief in a cause. It's bigger than any of us.  
  
  Q. Has Paul Azinger talked to you in regards to the Ryder Cup at all?  
 KEVIN STREELMAN: No. I haven't heard anything. I'm not really expecting to hear anything. But if he does, I'd love to talk. Like I said, I understand either way. He has a huge couple of decisions to make. He may have already made them, may not. I wouldn't put a betting odd on me being a player, but if you were to give me an odd, you would get an extremely hard worker that plays with a lot of heart and that's got a lot of confidence in his game right now.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT