U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2008
Kevin Streelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Full Audio Interview 
   
Q. Your third hole of the day, talk about how it played.  
  KEVIN STREELMAN: It wasn't a good tee shot I hit. I definitely caught it a little heavy, knew it was going to be in the bunker. It was an unfortunate lie, I could have stepped on it and it would have been that bad. I should have hit it a foot to the left, or yard to the left and tried to get up-and-down from there. I executed the shot very well. It just wasn't going to stop as it went over the green. 
  That's a situation you face in the U.S. Open, and you need to take your medicine and just do the best with what you're given and that wasn't -- I definitely threw away a shot or two to the field. It was disappointing. I'm happy I hung in for the most part after that. 
   
   
Q. What's the biggest difference between the course yesterday  
and today, how it's playing? 
  KEVIN STREELMAN: I thought it was playing pretty similar. For us it felt -- the greens are more receptive in the morning and more pure. We played yesterday afternoon and they were bumpy and firm. It was optimal scoring conditions, I felt. There are certain places you can't miss the ball on some of these short sides and approach shots and par-3s. And I did that three or four times. You have to pay the price in the U.S. Open. 
   
   
Q. (Inaudible.) 
  KEVIN STREELMAN: I had 7-iron. I planned on 6, and Robert hit a 7, and it almost went over the green. I'm shorter than him with the irons, but it was a perfect 7, and I definitely caught it a little heavy. So I paid the price. 
   
   
Q. (Inaudible.) 
  KEVIN STREELMAN: It was a touch. It was a little bit of a race last night. We tried our best to get as much sleep as possible. I slept from about 10 to 2:30 and was up pretty much the rest of the night after that. Probably get in for a nice nap this afternoon and recharge everything for tomorrow. 
   
   
Q. How important is rest? Do you consider that a factor at  
all today? 
  KEVIN STREELMAN: I wouldn't think so. It was two terrible lies and two bunkers cost me a triple and a double. If I could have salvaged bogeys out of those, I would have been right in the hunt. It's a learning process. 
   
   
Q. Did the ball bounce today? 
  KEVIN STREELMAN: Most PGA TOUR events bunkers are absolutely primo. They have a very thin top line of dusty sand and a pretty firm base, where you can really get the club bounce working underneath it and create a ton of spin. There's a good two or three inches of heavy, particular sand on the top, and then the base under that, so you're just not able to generate enough spin on the ball to control it out of the bunkers, you play for chunk and runs, as opposed to most Tour events, you aim for bunkers, because it's pretty easy to get out of them a lot of times. 
   
   
Q. Good news, you get two more rounds? 
  KEVIN STREELMAN: Absolutely. If Thursday morning I would have said 3-over at a U.S. Open through two rounds, I would have taken it. I'm a little disappointed how I played today, but hopefully it's my bad round and I'll make a move tomorrow. 
   
   
Q. (Inaudible.) 
  KEVIN STREELMAN: At 6, yeah. The disappointing thing about that is it hopped in; it didn't fly in. It landed and just a fried egg. I was short-sided again, I should have played to the left. I tried to open up and hit a more lofted shot and just hit it into -- almost took the guy out of the TV tower, there, it was kind of funny. But it happens. 
   
   
Q. (Inaudible.) 
   
KEVIN STREELMAN: Sure, hope I can do it again tomorrow.  
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT