COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 23, 2017
Pat Casey
Jake Thompson
Michael Gretler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LSU - 3, Oregon State - 1
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Oregon State.
COACH CASEY: Well, we get to play tomorrow.  We're excited about that.  And Alex Lange was really good today.  I thought that we had a couple of opportunities and we didn't seize those opportunities, and a lot of that was him and some of it was us.
But we believe in ourselves, and we're still 56-5 or whatever we are, and we need to put that behind us and get ready to play tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.
Q. Michael, I guess how good was Alex out there and how much of it maybe was some timing issues offensively given the three days off?
MICHAEL GRETLER: You know, I don't think the three days off really matters.  I think we know what we need to do, and I think we came out with the right mindset at the start.  I mean, we were confident in ourselves.
He pitched really well.  Like Coach said, there were a couple of opportunities we didn't take advantage of, but it's over and we're ready to go for tomorrow.
Q. Michael, I think you were on second when Steven hit the ball off the wall.  What was your perspective on fair or foul, and just what did you see on that play?
MICHAEL GRETLER: I didn't get a look.  I had my head down.  I was running.
Q. Jake, how did you feel out there today?  And better (indiscernible) performance than the Cal State one.  Were you juiced up to get a second chance?
JAKE THOMPSON: Definitely.  Anytime you pitch bad, you always want to be back on the mound.  I feel like if I could get two pitches back today, it would make a big difference.  And it's over.  So we're ready for tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  Questions for Coach.
Q. Coach, what did you see on the ball that was hit down the line?  And did you consider calling for a challenge?
COACH CASEY: I did.  And I could not see the ball.  So you know what, I should have asked for a review.  My understanding from the NCAA is the crew chief should have asked for a review.
But I can ask for a review, and I didn't.  And I should have.  That's on me.  I should have asked for review.  And I don't know how that would have affected things, but it certainly would have put us in a pretty good position, that's for sure.
Q. What did you kind of from your perspective see from Alex Lange, that he was able to get out of some sticky situations there throughout the game?
COACH CASEY: You know, he's been in big games.  He pitched like a big-game guy.  He threw the ball where he needed to when he needed to.  And he's good.  Man, he's real good.
And I like our club.  I like our guys.  Like I said, we had very few opportunities to do what I think that we were trying to do, and when we got those opportunities, we didn't seize them.  And we had a couple of guys that kind of drifted away from what we were trying to do, and a couple times those were crucial situations.  But he was real good.
Q. I know you said obviously you don't know how that would have impacted the game there in the third inning, but knowing what you know about your team and the way you guys play offensively and how Lange settled in, you score a couple more runs that inning, how do you feel that could have potentially impacted the innings ahead?
COACH CASEY: I wouldn't be coaching if I could figure that out.  But what I will tell you is that it would have been nice to be in that situation, and I do believe that it certainly would have changed that inning, that's for sure.  I don't know how he would have pitched after that.  He was good.  Obviously the ball was really close by the time somebody got down to me to let me know that the ball was fair, a pitch had already been thrown.
We don't have that technology, I guess, to do that.  And so didn't get done.
Q. Is the intention to still throw Drew tomorrow?
COACH CASEY: That's the intention, yeah.
Q. Seemed like he got off to a really good start in the first inning.  In the second inning they were able to hit him, be aggressive.  What did you think was the difference in that frame?
COACH CASEY: Just got behind hitters and threw the ball in the middle of the plate, and they got good hitters.  You'd have to flip sides of the plate and subtract, and he didn't do it in that inning, but he pitched really well after that.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT