U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2019
Bo Jin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well you made that comeback again.  You like that back nine.
BO JIN: Yeah, definitely.  I definitely like it, yeah.
Q. Tell me about the putt that you made at 17.
BO JIN: That was a good putt.  First I hit my drive right into the right rough, but I kind of got good lie so got (indiscernible) on the second shot.
The putt was like 20 feet.  Very big slider.  Then his putt over the hole by six feet, so I'm like -- I mean, putting for me today has not been very good.  Kind of lose a little bit of confidence, but I gain a lot confidence 16 where I all squared my match.
Then that hole just a slider.  I just relax and hit my putt and it went in.
Q. How long was the putt at 16?
BO JIN: I had a birdie putt at 16.  Was like 135 feet.  Then I hit a chip over by I wold say nine feet, ten feet.  Then he miss par putt, then my par putt was like four feet.  I mean, wasn't that exciting putt, but I just feel like that was really big for me.  Like that's momentum, comeback, everything.
Q. How far did you have on your second shot and what club did you use at 18?
BO JIN: I had 115.  Wind is kind of cross a little bit into me, so I kind of just went for a soft 50.  Yeah, soft 50-degree, yeah.
I think I aim five yard to the left.  Just try to hit it straight on the green.  I kind of pull it a little bit, but the ball stay on the green.  It was like 30-feet putt.  I saw Deven miss his putt so I'm like, Just two-putt this.
Q. And it almost went in.
BO JIN: Yeah.
Q. What is about this back nine though that you feel so comfortable on the last two days?
BO JIN: Yeah, I mean, every day is all start on hole 14, long par-4.  I mean, I always have a better opportunity on hole 13 where my opponent hit a bad driver, bad second shot, but I did not catch both of the chances.
But on hole 14, yesterday it was me hitting bad drives in trees and got really good recovery shot.  Today it was him hitting the trees, but he didn't get as lucky as mine.  He was right in the trees so he got a punch out.
When I saw him punch out I just try to get it on the green and two-putt for par.
Q. How excited are you to be in the semifinals?
BO JIN: Really excited.  I never think I would come so far.  I mean, like I say yesterday, I think making round of 64 is pretty good for me, but I keep carrying on, beating my opponents.  Yeah, definitely really excited for semis.
Q. Have you heard from your brother or sister last night at all?
BO JIN: I talked to my sister a little bit.  Yeah, I was talking to her during the rain delay.  I try to call her 8:00 but she didn't pick up the phone.  She practicing for her U.S. Amateur too.  Then my brother, he's playing PGA China Tour so I didn't want to call to it disturb him.
Q. I bet he's watching from afar.
BO JIN: Yeah, he have to.  I probably text him later to watch me on TV.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT