U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2019
Bo Jin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a way to end.  
BO JIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  That had to be exciting when you saw that putt go in.  
BO JIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  What were you thinking?  
BO JIN: What can I say?  Before the putt I was thinking I had exactly the same putt early in the morning.  I knew which way it's going to break and break a little bit to the right.   
Left it a little bit short in the morning, so I just give it a little bit more speed; hit the same line.  Yeah, definitely excited for it to go in.   
 Q.  And then how exciting it to make the finals?  
BO JIN: Definitely being a first alternate coming into this tournament, like not knowing if I'm going to even come to this place, making round of 64, 32, 16, and quarterfinals and semifinals, definitely excited to be in the finals.   
 Q.  Since your family is all in the golf community, let's say, I'm sure it's got to be exciting for the whole family.  
BO JIN: Definitely.  I hope my sister watch my putt, but she was probably on the flight to Wisconsin.  That's my guess.   
 Q.  You made an eagle on 13.  
BO JIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  That put you ahead.  Tell me about that hole.  
BO JIN: Oh, that hole.  I mean, Kelly almost made his eagle, too.  Yeah, he just left like two, three inches short and I just make mine.  It's really big momentum for me.  I got it going after that hole.   
I lost two holes in a row and that was definitely a big comeback for me.  It got me a lot of confident and momentum going on.   
 Q.  And then Kelly came back at you.  Made the birdie on 16.  
BO JIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  And then obviously you got in the bunker on 17.  
BO JIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  How hard that was bunker shot?  
BO JIN: Yeah, it was kind of hard.  Like first think, I got to carry the first one and make sure I land it on the green; I got to make sure it doesn't roll too much.  I kind of chunk it a little bit, a little bit fat.  Ball didn't spin the way I wanted.  Went over the hole like seven feet, eight feet.  Yeah.   
 Q.  What was your mentality now?  You just lost the lead.  You go to the 18 tee.  Were you calm?  Were you mad at yourself?  
BO JIN: I'm definitely not mad at myself.  Just lost a hole.  You had a bad kick on 17 drive.  It's not your fault anyway.  Definitely try to keep myself down and definitely got to keep my confident up.   
But Kelly definitely had a lot of confident and momentum going on, but I definitely got to keep it up, encourage myself.   
 Q.  Then you were in the fairway on 18.  
BO JIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  What was the distance and what did you hit?  
BO JIN: It was 107 and I hit a soft 50-degree, yeah.   
 Q.  How much did your caddie help you here this week?  
BO JIN: How much my caddie help?  Definitely a lot.  He help me read putts, give me good club selection, tell me how far to hit, yeah.   
 Q.  Did you gain confidence in him as the week went on?  
BO JIN: Definitely.  First day because I didn't have him during stroke play round of 64, we didn't play a lot of holes, too, so I'm like, No, we don't really know each other yet.   
But as more holes and more holes came on, definitely getting more confidence.  Right now I can really trust him the line, how far should I hit it or what club should I hit.  Yeah.   
 Q.  Last question:  Do you know much about Preston Summerhays?  
BO JIN: I played with him during Junior Invitational second day.  I didn't play too well but he played well.  He's a really good ball-striker.  Nice guy.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT