U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2019
Bo Jin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bo, you have to be really excited.  
BO JIN: Yeah, definitely.   
 Q.  Winning two matches today.  
BO JIN: Yeah, this my first time playing U.S. Junior and first time making the qualifying also obviously.   
 Q.  And you were an alternate in qualifying, so you were fortunate to get in the field, too.  
BO JIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  So what kind of expectations did you have coming in here?  
BO JIN: I mean, I just want to make it to the match play, first of all.  Like the stroke play, top 64, definitely not easy draw.  Like the best junior players in the world and there is like a few college players coming out.   
Yeah, so my first goal is make to it to 64, and then when it comes to match play just play your best, play your own golf, do your best, you'll be good.   
 Q.  So you lived in Beijing.  
BO JIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  And you've been in the United States for two and a half years.  
BO JIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  Was it tough coming over here and transitioning to a new way of life?  
BO JIN: I was born in Beijing.  I lived in Beijing for seven years, then my family moved to Singapore for seven years.  So I only came here when I was 14 years old.   
It's fine.  I first went to high school with my friend Kento Yamawaki also playing in this tournament.   
 Q.  Yes.  
BO JIN: He's a really nice guy.  For freshman year in high school I join the golf team.  We play a lot of high school golf together.  Then I left the school.  I was in that school for first semester during sophomore year, and then I went to Houston Academy for my second semester and sophomore and junior year.   
 Q.  How excited is your family that you're playing in the boys junior and your sister is going to play next week in the girls' junior?  
BO JIN: For sure it's like my sister -- I qualify first and got first alternate.  Funny thing is so the guy I'm playing tomorrow, Deven, me and him was in a playoff for the 1 spot.  So he beat me, but tomorrow it's a rematch.   
 Q.  Yes.  
BO JIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  And then today, in your second match today it was tight there for a while, and then you came from behind on the back nine.  
BO JIN: Yes.   
 Q.  And you got a par on 14 to square it up.  How did you par that hole?  
BO JIN: Yeah, I hit my drive way right.  I pushed -- I kind of saw Brian in the fairway.  Brian was really accurate all the way, so I kind of knew he was going to hit it on the green.   
I just try one aggressive shot, try to go over two trees, but it kind of went over the -- it didn't went over the first one but it went over the second one and somehow got on the green.  I think I got really lucky over there.   
Then Brian miss in the bunker, so I just two-putted and Brian make bogey.   
 Q.  And then you took the lead on 16 and you made a birdie.  
BO JIN: Yeah, that was a really big putt.  Brian hit his second shot first.  He went left.  I hit it really straight toward the flag.  It kind of went over the green, but it was a 25-feet putt.  Yeah.   
 Q.  And what club did you hit to the green?  
BO JIN: I think I hit a soft 8.  Yeah, soft 8.   
 Q.  And then you closed him out here on 18.  He went over the green.  
BO JIN: Yeah.   
 Q.  When you saw he went over the green did you play it safe?  
BO JIN: Yeah, I definitely change my mind.  I was kind of in between club, and like I went for 56.  I knew it was going to land like ten feet short of the flag and spin all the way back.  I saw his went over the green and saw them putting a white flag just to be safe.  I mean, if he hit it close to the hole I probably try to hit a soft 52 at the hole.   
 Q.  How excited are you to be in the quarterfinals tomorrow?  
BO JIN: Definitely really excited.  Yeah.  I mean being my brother played this two times and didn't make it to the quarterfinals, so it's definitely excited for me to make it in the quarterfinals.   
 Q.  What was your brother's name?  
BO JIN: Cheng Jin.  He played this two years and one year lost in 64 and one year lost in 32.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT