NL DIVISION SERIES: DIAMONDBACKS v BREWERS
October 5, 2011
Miguel Montero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Is this a situation where you have to kind of put yesterday aside a little bit, because for as high as it was, you're still down 2 games to 1?
 MIGUEL MONTERO: Yesterday is already over. We have to come back today and try to do the same thing. What happened yesterday is over with. And like I say, bottom line, we've got to come back today and win.

 Q. How big a boost of confidence was yesterday, just getting the first one, obviously that means you know you're capable of getting the next two?
 MIGUEL MONTERO: Well, the confidence, we've had confidence even the first game we lost, the second game we lost. We came back yesterday and the good thing was the chemistry in the clubhouse still the same. And we feel good about ourself right now. 
 And even yesterday we knew we just went out there to have fun and do our things. And it's a good feeling just to get the first win and go back today and play the game as hard as we played yesterday.

 Q. How has it been all year working with the pitching staff? How do you feel you've helped these young guys be as good as they've been all year?
 MIGUEL MONTERO: Well, it's been fun. I'm impressed with the job they've done. These guys are well prepared on the mound, well mature. And they come after it. They're not afraid. They just enjoy the pitch and they enjoy to -- I enjoy to catch them, because it's been fun the whole year. 
 I feel pretty good about myself catching those guys. Take a lot of pride just to help them and get improved the first year for most of the guys, like Collmenter, like Hudson, Miley did a pretty good job. It's been fun and I see a bright future for those guys.

 Q. Not only running the staff as a catcher, you've also been the cleanup hitter, been a big part of the offense as a run producer. How much do you kind of embrace that role of both sides of the game?
 MIGUEL MONTERO: Well, you know, my first role is just get these pitchers 7, 8 innings. And I also feel comfortable about my hitting. Even growing up, I felt comfortable. I knew I could hit. I never took anything like if I'm 0-for-10, I never felt any kind of frustration about myself if I'm in a slump. Because I know I'm going to get out of it at some point. 
 It's not something I worry about, my hitting. If it's something I have to worry about is getting these pitchers through 7 or 8 innings and a quality start. And right now I learned that in the minor league with one of the best coaches I ever have, and he tell me that. And if you go 0-for-4, my goal is to get everybody in the other team to go 0-for-4. I know it's hard. 
 People think about how do you do it, like catching, you've got -- your mind is working so much because you've got to come here and hit with two men on and you've got to get a hit. Like yesterday, I don't feel -- I don't put pressure on myself. If I get a hit, if I don't, I try, you know? 
 And my main goal is, just like I said before, I just try to give my pitchers a good quality start every time.

 Q. Do you have any memories of Don Baylor as a player, remember watching him? Second, how would you describe his style and the impact as hitting coach?
 MIGUEL MONTERO: I'm only 19 years old, man (laughter). Well, to be honest, I don't remember. I mean, I don't watch that many ballgames on TV in Venezuela. I like to play, not to watch it, you know? Honestly, I don't remember seeing him play. I heard a lot about him. Andres Galarraga talked great -- he talk always great about Don Baylor. 
 Carlos Gonzalez, when we signed Don Baylor as a hitting coach for the Diamondbacks, I called Carlos, and asked him how much do you like him? He says he's outstanding. He's great. He doesn't make you think too much. He just give you his report and tell you what he thinks. And he's not a guy that's going to work too much with you, just whatever you need. 
 And he's been great for the team. He's been great in the dugout, in the clubhouse, too. It's not only about hitting. 

 Q. What was the key yesterday to you and Josh shutting down their 3 and 4 hitters, Prince and Braun? What are you going to do with Joe today?
 MIGUEL MONTERO: We just try to make a quality pitch. Everybody knows the last guys that we want to beat us is Braun and Fielder. And we've got to pitch them tough. And they know that. Everybody, it's not a secret. 
 Josh was outstanding. Outstanding. He was dominating the game. And he was pitching, elevation, and I guess he's pretty tough, to be honest. I don't want to face him because he looks pretty good. 
 The thing that really impressed me, his body language, everything under control. For the first year, starting the playoff, first year in the Big League, everything under control, he doesn't try to do too much. He made good quality pitches the entire game.

 Q. What would you say would be the key to tonight, Joe Saunders having a great performance?
 MIGUEL MONTERO: Throw strikes. That's the key. If he's throwing strikes, he's working ahead on the count, we're going to have a good shot. If we fall behind, I mean, it's going to be tough. Because these guys like to swing the bat and they're pretty good hitters. Joe's pretty good. He's got postseason experience and hopefully he bring the A game today. 

 Q. I don't know if you saw this last night, but Ron Roenicke said he walked you because he was scared of you. 
 MIGUEL MONTERO: Yeah, I saw that. I felt pretty good about myself when I heard that, to be honest (laughter). 
 It's like we've been doing all year. All year somebody been pulling for the other guys. Like you never know if the guy on this team that's going to get you, you know? And today it can be somebody else. 
 But it was a good quote right there. I felt good about myself.

 Q. You're batting, I was reading the stats, that you and Henry Blanco led the National League, as a matter of fact, the majors, runners in stealing. How have you done all this all year?
 MIGUEL MONTERO: Well, you know, I got to give credit to my pitchers. They've been giving me a good chance to throw the guys out. And Henry has always been good throwing the guys out, all his career he'd been outstanding doing that thing. He helped me a lot. 
 And we had a lot of talk. We talk about what I have to do to get better. He's just been huge. Henry has been huge, big part of this team. We call him the captain, because he is the captain. He's a great guy. 
 But like I said before, he's just -- the pitching staff, we got to give them credit because he gives you all the time. They're not slow to the plate. And when they give you a chance to throw the guy out, you don't try to rush and you made a good throw.

 Q. Can you talk about how this trip to the postseason is different for you personally than four years ago?
 MIGUEL MONTERO: Well, it's definitely different because in '07 I was backing up. And I just pretty much catch only one guy. And you feel part of it, but at the same point you don't feel like you contribute a whole lot. And for me this one feel like I help the team. Some way, somehow, but I help the team get to the playoff. Especially when I've got the pitchers with 21-game winning, and the other one with 16 or 17. And I feel like I help some way.
 In '07, I mean they probably say, hey, you know, thanks for you contribute with the team, but I don't feel that way. So that's what makes it different. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT