U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 29, 2019
Tommy Armour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice finish.
TOMMY ARMOUR: Birdie-birdie is always a good way to finish.
Q. What were the circumstances on the birdies?  What did you do?
TOMMY ARMOUR: I hit driver, 5-iron in the little bunker on 17, and I could not have had a better lie.  I had a bad rake job.  Somebody didn't quite rake it good, and it was right up on the tip of the thing, which was kind of on the upslope.  You couldn't have asked for a better -- if you were placing it to give yourself a good shot, that's where you'd put it.  And I just knocked it out about like that, and then I made about a 24-footer on the last hole.
Q. The conditions out there, any significant change from yesterday?
TOMMY ARMOUR: The course is definitely changing.  It's firming up a little bit.  But it's still -- the breeze came from a different direction today, so guys are kind of looking at different holes.
But I think it's a fun golf course.  It's a really good golf course.  You hit good shots, you're going to get good looks.
Q. You were in the red every day.  You've got to be happy about that.
TOMMY ARMOUR: You know, yeah.  I can't complain.  I'd like to be lower in the red, but yeah, I am.
Q. You've got a chance to do some things that you haven't done before in this championship.  How do you feel about where you're at right now and what you can do tomorrow?
TOMMY ARMOUR: You know, I'm just going to go out and play golf tomorrow.  That's what I do every day.  You know, I think I finished in the top 10 maybe twice in the Senior U.S. Open or something, I don't know.  But, hey, I'm glad to be here.  I'm a little wounded, but that's okay.
Q. What's it going to take to beat Steve Stricker do you think?
TOMMY ARMOUR: Shooting lower than him.  (Laughter.)
I mean, he's got it on pretty good right now.  What is he, 10, 11, 12 shots ahead of me?
Q. Six on the field.
TOMMY ARMOUR: Yeah, you know, that takes a lot because he's going to shoot 69, 68 tomorrow.  That's what he does.
Q. Is this golf course still a place you like to play?
TOMMY ARMOUR: Yeah, I do.  I like it.  It's good on the eyes.  You've got to hit some good shots, good tee shots.  I like it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT