U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 28, 2019
Tommy Armour
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bogey free?  
TOMMY ARMOUR: It was bogey free.   
 Q.  Pretty good playing.  What was working?  
TOMMY ARMOUR: You know, that was a nice round of golf.  I'm pleased with it.  Yesterday was kind of the same, but I threw a few bogeys in there.   
 Q.  Today you did not.  
TOMMY ARMOUR: Correct.   
 Q.  Putting, driving, everything working?  
TOMMY ARMOUR: Just played good golf.  Just drove it well, good irons, never really got in trouble, hit some -- made some putts, missed a few putts.   
 Q.  Do you feel like this was kind of two rounds that were coming on, that you were ready to put some good golf together this week?  
TOMMY ARMOUR: Well, you know, I've been playing -- I've been shooting 70 a lot lately, which is not bad golf, it's not good golf.  I mean, I always feel like I'm going to play good golf.   
 Q.  Tell us about the eagle at 17.  
TOMMY ARMOUR: Hit a driver, 4-iron about 16 feet and rolled it right in the middle of the hole.  I mean, I just drove it right down the right side, had a good look into the hole, and I hit a nice 4-iron.  It was 222 yards, and a little help from the wind, and just hit the 4-iron right on the button.   
 Q.  Were you right of the bunker on the green there?  
TOMMY ARMOUR: Yes.  It landed about four paces right of the bunker.  Couldn't have drawn a better shot.   
 Q.  How do you like the greens here?  Guys have been talking about how tricky they are or can be.  
TOMMY ARMOUR: Well, I mean, I don't know about tricky.  I don't think they're -- I think some of the short holes have tricky greens, and all the long holes have very receptive, biggish greens -- you know, this is a great venue for the U.S. Open for 50-year-old guys.  This is what we should be playing on, stuff like this.   
Everybody is already proved whatever they're trying to prove.  (Laughter.)  Now it's just a bunch of us 50-year-olds playing golf trying to beat each other.  I mean, it's -- if the score is 15-under or whatever, it's -- we had our beating a few weeks ago at Oak Hill.   
 Q.  That was pretty tough.  
TOMMY ARMOUR: Yes, it was.   
 Q.  That being said, Steve Stricker, 14-under.  Do you have any visions of trying to catch him, and can you --  
TOMMY ARMOUR: You know, I'm going to go out and start on 1 tomorrow and try and make some birdies out there.  I mean, Strick played good golf.  I said the winning score at the start of the week would be 18-under.  I mean, that's what I thought, because kind of like the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach, the weather and Mother Nature has kind of kept the course where it's not going to get -- it's rinsed it a few times with some rain and it's not going to get out of control or fast or weird or anything like that.   
And the long holes are -- they've got some room to drive it.  The short holes, you've got some good shots in the fairway.  You're not going to play well on this course from the rough, as you can see some of the guys that are driving it in the rough.  They're shooting some high scores.   
 Q.  Are you having fun?  
TOMMY ARMOUR: Oh, I always have fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT