U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2015
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JANE PARK: It was playing really tough for me, because I'm hitting 3-woods into some of these holes that I can't reach, like No. 9.  So I know it was a bogey, but I gave it my best.  Had a really good putt and just slipped out on the low side.  I'm putting really well, the rest of my game feels really good. I'm just going to continue to try to do the rest of the weekend like that.   Q.  Red figures halfway through a U.S. Women's Open?  JANE PARK: That's good.  Red figures are always good at the Women's Open.   Q.  You qualified to get into this.  You knew you wanted to be here, right?  JANE PARK: Yes, yes.  The USGA holds a special place in my heart.  I played it all throughout my junior career, and definitely the Women's Open is my favorite tournament, by far.   Q.  To follow up on that, it's been 11 years since your U.S. Women's Amateur.  Can you talk a little bit about your career since that time?  JANE PARK: Yeah, some ups and downs, some injuries.  I feel like I'm getting pretty old, but I'm still holding it together, which is nice. This is my first year feeling completely healthy in a very long time.  Golf's pretty taxing on your body.  But, yeah, I'm feeling really good about my game.   Q.  What were your injuries?  JANE PARK: Back injuries, neck injuries, wrist injuries, just kind of the same golf injuries that everyone gets.   Q.  You had have a well-deserved reputation as being the foodie on Tour.  What have you eaten here and is there anything good?  JANE PARK: You know what, I haven't had time to really scope out some places.  I'm probably going to do that this afternoon.  My go-to place is Outback Steakhouse (laughter).   Q.  Being near the top of the leaderboard halfway through, does that change the mindset going into the next two days?  JANE PARK: No, absolutely not.  I knew making a lot of pars was going to be very good this week, and I'm doing exactly that.  So I'm right where I want to be.   Q.  Have you had a whoopie pie yet?  JANE PARK: I have, several, yeah, they're kind of hard to resist.   Q.  You could not reach the green with 3-wood on 9?  JANE PARK: No, no, I absolutely smashed my driver and hit not my best 3-wood on the last hole, but I ended up 40 yards short of the pin.   Q.  What did you have on the second shot?  JANE PARK: It was playing about 220.  So my 3-wood into the wind would probably go about 195 max.  So I knew I couldn't reach it, so I just tried to give myself a good chance at up and down and unfortunately I didn't do that.   Q.  Were there other par-4s that you couldn't reach?  JANE PARK: I reached 18 today for the first time all week.  And I hit a great 3-wood out there.  And it was downwind, so it looks like the wind has switched.  So, yeah, there's a couple really long ones that are pretty difficult for me.   Q.  Is it tough to get in your rhythm last night with the rain and having to play extra holes?  JANE PARK: No, actually I welcomed that little break.  Yesterday was a pretty long day, so I was kind of relieved that we kind of got a delay.  So get a good night's rest and came out today and finished pretty strong.  So I'm feeling pretty good.   Q.  Why do you think you play so well in USGA events?  JANE PARK: I'm a grinder.  I grind out the pars when I need to.  I don't make a ton of birdies.  But like I said, the U.S. Women's Open is all about making a lot of pars, and I seem to be pretty good at that sometimes.   Q.  You mentioned your injuries earlier, are they still bothering you?  JANE PARK: On and off, yeah, it comes and goes.  But overall I feel as healthy as I've been in several years.   Q.  And why does a California girl move to Atlanta?  JANE PARK: Well, there's a lot less congestion where I live, it's north of Atlanta.  Atlanta has got direct flights to everywhere.  And I have a free membership at Settingdown Golf Club, which is one of the best  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT