U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2015
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you sum up how your first round went?JANE PARK: I stayed very consistent, hit a lot of fairways, lot of greens.  Thankfully the putter was working well the last two days.  Hopefully I can have more of that in the second round.Q. Where did you pick up this morning?JANE PARK: 14th hole I started on.Q. Talk about your birdie.JANE PARK: 14, I hit a 5-iron from 160 yards and I had about a 15-footer downhill left to right and it rolled in there really nice for me.  Great way to start off the day and I'm really happy with the way I played.Q. And your save coming in the rest of the way?JANE PARK: Yes, bunker save on 17.  I hit in the right bunker, hit it to about two feet, made par. On 18, I haven't been able to reach this hole all week, so made a good chip shot there to about two feet and made par.Q. You looked like you got --JANE PARK: It was kind of tricky.  I couldn't tell which way it was breaking, but it was actually pretty straight.Q. What did you hit in there?JANE PARK: A 3-wood.  Driver, 3-wood and I couldn't reach it.  I haven't been able to reach it yet.Q. That's a hell of a hole?JANE PARK: It's a hell of a hole.  Looks like my ball mark was two, three paces on the green and it rolled back.  That's the closest I've come to hitting the green.Q. Having to come back after the rain, what kind of factor did it have?JANE PARK: Nothing, nothing.  Just kind of luck of the draw.  People have to deal with it and people have to deal with it the best this week, whoever can come out mentally strong is going to play pretty well.Q. With five holes to play coming out this morning, is that better or worse?JANE PARK: I think it's better.  You can kind of get into a routine and I feel warmed up for my second round already.  So my warmup will be nice and short here in a couple minutes.  Good way to start the day.  Beautiful course in the morning.  It's absolutely gorgeous.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT