KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 1, 2011
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome Jane Park into the interview room. Congratulations on your round today. 6-under for the tournament. Take us through your round a little bit today and kind of what the conditions were like out there.  
 JANE PARK: The wind was not blowing at all today, which is very unusual for this golf course. And the greens are very, very dry and very hard, and they're very, very fast.   
 And for the most part the golf course is in great condition.   
 THE MODERATOR: How different this year are the conditions kind of from the past? You were talking a little bit about the lack of wind.  
 JANE PARK: Yeah. Usually we're all used to playing this golf course in about a 30-mile-an-hour wind. But today it was so calm, and I do believe the greens are a lot firmer than last year as well, which is hard to believe because it's not even windy outside.   
 THE MODERATOR: Any questions?   
  
  Q. When you saw the scoring yesterday, 6's and 5's, was that a little bit of a surprise given the conditions, or did you think those kinds of scores were out there, as tough as the course was?  
 JANE PARK: You know, the golf course, I think the biggest defense is the narrow fairways and the rough, and if the wind is up, then it's definitely a very tough golf course, but being that there was no wind yesterday, I knew some good scores were out there.   
  
  Q. Jane, good playing.  
 JANE PARK: Thank you.   
  
  Q. You obviously played yourself into this week's tournament with a good finish last week. You said last week that you're feeling good and playing well. Can you talk about that, what's going right?  
 JANE PARK: Last week I played at Industry Hills, which is about 15, 20 minutes from my old residence of Ranch Cucamonga. And I had some friends out there to watch me.   
 And it was just a great feeling being back in California, you know, in my hometown. And that golf course, I've never really played it as a junior when I used to live in Ranch Hill, but I've just heard so many great things about it, Tiger practices there and everything. And I just got a lot of good vibes from family and friends, and it was just a very good week overall.  
  
  Q. And do you think you're going to have some people out this weekend do you think?  
 JANE PARK: Yeah. Definitely. I've got some old buddies from old golf courses down here coming out this weekend, and hopefully I'll get my little fan base going.   
  
  Q. I think checking your record you had a great year a couple years ago. Then I couldn't find any information on what happened in the ensuing couple years. Can you talk about that?  
 JANE PARK: In 2008 I did have a great year. 2009 I had quite a few injuries and I couldn't play. I didn't play for about three or four months. And it was back injuries, and that really just, you know, knocked the wind out of my sails. And it's tough to come back from a very severe injury like that, and I guess it's taken this long to kind of recover.  
  
  Q. Was the back injury just from golf? A lot of golfers get back injuries. Or was it something else?  
 JANE PARK: Yeah. A lot of golfers have wrist injuries and back injuries. I think the back thing kind of runs in my family. My dad has a bad back. And you know, plus beating balls for a couple hours isn't really good for it either, so you know, doing some exercises to strengthen it up.  
  
  Q. Is it good now? You feel back to normal?   
 JANE PARK: I do. I feel very good right now. Yeah.  
  
  Q. Are you doing anything to kind of keep it good?  
 JANE PARK: You know, foam rolling has really helped me and just stretching in general and getting massages.  
  
  Q. What was that, foam rolling?  
 JANE PARK: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What is foam rolling?  
 JANE PARK: It's like -- it's hard to describe. It's like this cylindrical, it's very tough, it's very hard, and you just kind of roll your back over it, and yeah, it kind of massages you. And it hurts a lot of times, but it just gets all the bad stuff out, just like getting a massage.   
  
  Q. Can I ask a little bit about your round today?  
 JANE PARK: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What went right out there? Obviously some good birdies in the middle there.  
 JANE PARK: Uh-huh. My putting definitely feels great right now. You know, I love putting on fast greens. And you know, if you drive the ball in the fairway on this course, it's really not that difficult if you -- like I said, if you can put it in play.   
 But for the most part I think my putting really helped me out today and yesterday.  
  
  Q. Before the tournament I was talking to the course people about the greens, and they said they were pretty aggressively verticutting the greens during the off season for the buildup and they were hoping that they wouldn't be any faster necessarily, but maybe they'd roll a little truer. Do you see any difference in the greens this year as opposed to past years?  
 JANE PARK: The greens have always been excellent here. The only thing I notice about this year is I think they're extremely firm, like more firm than I've ever seen them, and they've always rolled pretty true here. So they're always in great condition.   
  
  Q. You played here, this is what, your sixth time?  
 JANE PARK: This is my seventh time.  
  
  Q. Seventh time?  
 JANE PARK: Yeah. Seventh or eighth, I'm not sure.  
  
  Q. Obviously going all the way back to when you were a kid.  
 JANE PARK: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Do you feel any different now? Do you feel all these experiences that you've had?  
 JANE PARK: Yeah. I do feel like when I was 16, which was my first time I played here, the golf course is just so visually intimidating, but you know, now it still looks intimidating, but I'm not really afraid of the golf course, which is what kind of was running through my mind as a kid.   
 But I definitely feel like I can play more aggressively and not worry about missing the green or anything because I have a lot of confidence in my short game and putting.   
  
  Q. You've always been a reader. I would like to ask you what you're reading right now. Read anything good lately?  
 JANE PARK: Yes. I would have to say my favorite book I read about a month ago, it's called "The Art of Racing in the Rain" by Garth Stein, and it's a book narrated through the eyes of a dog. It's a wonderful book. It made me cry.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Jane. Good luck the rest of the week.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT