KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 31, 2011
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Okay. Great playing today, Jane. You got into the tournament through good play last week at the KIA CLASSIC. Do you feel like you're just taking advantage of the opportunity?
 JANE PARK: Definitely. I love this tournament. I believe this is my seventh or eighth time playing here, so it was kind of in my backyard, and I really wanted to play, so I gritted it out last week and got in.

 Q. And just make a couple comments about your game today. You obviously played well. I would think that this course suits your game well?
 JANE PARK: Well, the course, you gotta drive the ball well, and fortunately I've been driving it pretty well the last few weeks, so coming into the week I did feel good about my game, especially my putting. 
 And you know, everything worked out today. 

 Q. When you grew up, did you play here much? Did you come out here to watch ever?
 JANE PARK: I never came out to watch a tournament, but I did come out to play some junior golf on the Palmer course, so we never really played the Dinah course. But I did practice here with a couple of members that I knew and have gotten very familiar with the course, fortunately.

 Q. What do you like about it?
 JANE PARK: You know, the greens are very pure. I do love it when, you know, you hit a putt and it goes right where you want it to go. 
 And just visually it's a very -- it's an intimidating course, but it just provides a really good challenge, and it challenges all aspects of your game, short game, driving, irons, everything. 

 Q. Do you feel more pressure when you're playing close to home or do you like playing here?
 JANE PARK: I love playing in California. I just love California, so it's definitely -- it's nice to get off to a good start this week.

 Q. Did you like the way you could qualify your way in through last week, this new idea that they --
 JANE PARK: Yeah, that was very fortunate for, you know, all ten of us that got in. And it just gives the rest of the field to play their way up the leaderboard and up the Money List, so that definitely was a good call. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT