HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 5, 2009
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Jane, you had a great round out there today. Five-under-par, this is your first time at Tanah Merah Country Club. Your thoughts on your first round? 
 JANE PARK: Well, first of all, I love Singapore. It's a beautiful country. I'm still very glad to be here, and the golf course is in great condition. 
 And I really like the way the golf course fits my eye. And as far as my first round, I'm very happy with a good start. And it's only the beginning, so we've got a long way to go. 
 I've been hitting the ball very well, and I have a new caddie, just for this week so we've been working on my distances and getting a better hold of how far I hit each club, how far to carry them. So I knew a good round was in the bag somewhere.

 Q. Were you surprised about your performance? What do you feel went well for you today? 
 JANE PARK: Like I said, my distance control was very good. And these greens are very, very big. So you have to be on the correct portion of the green. And if you're not, then you know, like on 18, if you hit a good shot, you can end up 100 feet away. So the main part, I think, is just to be on the right side of the green. 

 Q. Are you feeling you have momentum coming off of last week?
 JANE PARK: Definitely, I'm seeing it very well. And I just hope to do the same thing I did today, and just, you know, not get ahead of myself, and just play one shot at a time. 

 Q. Who is your caddie? 
 JANE PARK: His name is Matt Jobe, he's been caddying me for the event. 

 Q. When you say 'fits the eye,' you're not talking about contacts?
 JANE PARK: No, well, I usually like courses with a lot of curve in them, like dogleg right to dogleg left. And I wouldn't say I don't play well on straight courses, but it just fits my eye better, because I'm able to curve the ball each way. So it's a little more comfortable for me. 

 Q. You have not won on the LPGA, but do you feel growth there? 
 JANE PARK: Yes, I do. 

 Q. Do you feel ready for an inaugural breakthrough?
 JANE PARK: Well, I've seen bits of glimmer here and there. I just need to be able to put four good rounds together. Here and there I'll have a couple of good rounds, but just staying focused in the moment is probably my biggest thing. I tend to get ahead myself sometimes. 
 But just being in the moment and trying to string four good rounds together will probably be my biggest obstacle. 

 Q. How do you stay in the moment?
 JANE PARK: You know, when I'm on the golf course and not hitting the ball, I usually think of other things, I talk about things with my caddie like music or something to take my mind off of the golf course. But, obviously, when I approach the ball, I'm very focused, and just try to execute the shot I want.

 Q. Do you feel that being a leader will help you?
 JANE PARK: Yeah, definitely. I'm obviously an underdog in this tournament. This is only my second full year on Tour. So, you know, just being out here, trying to be consistent is probably like the key. 
 But there's pressure there no matter who you are. Whether you're an underdog or Lorena Ochoa. She handles the pressure very well. And I've got a lot to learn from here and my other peers on Tour. So it's a learning experience. 

 Q. Have you found yourself pushed by the 'babies' or the younger girls coming up behind you?
 JANE PARK: Definitely, it's so great to see youth on Tour. I'm just trying to move along, being as consistent as I can. But it's great to see the young players coming up and competing with the others. 

 Q. At what age did you decide to turn pro?
 JANE PARK: When I was 13. 

 Q. What are your thoughts about talent vs. training?
 JANE PARK: Well, I think if someone has talent, they're bound to go a long way, but it can only take you so far, as for someone without talent who works, you know really hard grinding it out every day. They're both important, but training is where it comes in, and your mental ability is also very important, too. 

 Q. What's on your I-Pod at the moment? You must have it with you all the time. You've said you listen to it in the shower?
 JANE PARK: Yes, I do. That's funny. I listen to a lot of things. I listen to amazing artists. I like Kanye West. Let's see, I like jazz and blues. Hip-hop, R & B, you know. Luther Vandross. Little bit of everything. 

 Q. Any song that was going through your mind today?
 JANE PARK: You know, it's called 'Lucky' by Jason Mraz and Colbie Calleit. It's very good, I think.

 Q. Forgive me for showing my age, but who is Jason Mraz?
 JANE PARK: Come on. How do you not know who Jason Mraz is? Let's see. Do you know who Jack Johnson is? He's like Jack Johnson, he's got his guitar. He's got a very free kind of persona to him. He's a singer, songwriter. His lyrics are very cute. His lyrics and the tunes are very catchy. And, you know, once you hear the song, it just sticks in your head, and I like songs like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT