ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 10, 2019
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What went well today?  
JANE PARK: I hit it super consistently.  Lots of fairways, lots of greens.  Gave myself a lot of chances and I just wasn't really in trouble today, which was nice.   
 Q.  How did the course play this morning?  
JANE PARK: Well, they moved a lot of tees back.  So it was obviously a little longer.  The pins were not that easy.  So it was definitely a little harder than the first two days.   
 Q.  How do you sum up this week in general?  You've obviously been playing really well?  
JANE PARK: You know know what, it's funny.  Golf is such a crazy game and everyone tells you that in one week you can turn it around.  It has been great for me this week and I have been trying to have a bit more fun on the golf course, which I haven't been doing the rest of the year.  Yeah, I've been a lot more relaxed this week for some reason.   
 Q.  Does it help when your husband is in your group?  
JANE PARK: Yes, yes, I love playing with Pete.  He's obviously my husband and I love him so much, so I love being around him.  And I'm really good friends with Mi, too, so it's a good group.   
 Q.  Looks like you guys could be playing together again tomorrow?  
JANE PARK: I hope so.   
 Q.  Have you ever played with him before on a Sunday?  
JANE PARK: On a Sunday, I don't know.  I don't know I've played with him on a Sunday.   
 Q.  Does that just add an extra comfort level maybe for you?  
JANE PARK: Yeah, it does.  It does.  Yeah, for sure.   
 Q.  Are you a player that likes to, you'll be a couple shots back, heading into Sunday.  Are you a player that likes that, just coming from behind a little bit?  
JANE PARK: Yeah, I like that.  I think it's a little more comfortable for me.  I obviously haven't been in the position that much.  Hopefully we've got some good weather tomorrow so we don't have to deal with the rain.  But yeah, I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT