NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MAXXFORCE
September 25, 2008
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Jane, 7-under par 65, tied for the lead right now. If you would just take us through your round. What went right for you today?  
 JANE PARK: I've been really working on my ball-striking because I've been struggling with it for the past couple of tournaments and everything just came together here this week. I also spent a lot of time on the putting greens, and thankfully, I just had a great day today.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Can you talk about the bogey on 17, did that kind of get you down, or are you still feeling good about your round.  
 JANE PARK: I'm still feeling great about my round. I hit so many great shots. I can't say I hit one bad shot out there. You know, I was hitting great iron shots to where I wanted to, it was almost pinpoint accuracy. That bogey on 17, it was just a dumb mental mistake. I missed, it was like a three-footer and that pin was a little difficult. It was on a hill. It was a difficult hole and I think it's probably one of the toughest holes out here. But for the most part, I'm very pleased.  
 MIKE SCANLAN: Can you talk about the three straight birdies on the front nine to get in the zone there, on 4, 5 and 6?   
 JANE PARK: I don't know, it just happens, when birdies like that happen, they happen so fast. You don't even know -- you don't realize what's going on until, oh, my gosh, I'm suddenly 4-under par.   
 Like I said, I'm hitting the ball great and I'm looking to do the same thing tomorrow.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Have you gotten more comfortable with your name on top of the leaderboard, when you get to 4-under and 5-under and you make the turn, are you more comfortable seeing your name up there?   
 JANE PARK: Yes, I've contended a little bit this year and it's great to play well. Unfortunately I haven't been able to actually break through and win, and you know, that first win is the toughest one.   
 But I'm not going to think of winning. I'm just going to think of just doing my best, plugging along like I did today.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: You fired a 62 earlier in the year. Did this feel like it could have gone that way?   
 JANE PARK: Oh, absolutely, yes. I was hitting it so great, and my caddie told me I was hitting it just like when I was hitting it when I shot 62. We had a little trouble with my yardages because I was hitting it so well. I was hitting it probably half a club longer today.   
 So yes, it did almost feel like a 62, but made a little mistake there.   
  
  Q. Is there anything specific on this course that you have to look out for or that you have to take care of?   
 JANE PARK: Well, the wind is a huge factor this week. I remember playing here last year and it was extremely windy. Not as windy today but it definitely does play a factor. It makes you hit those half-iron shots so that it won't spin as much.   
 Like on hole 4, I believe, I had like 160 to the hole but I hit like a chip shot 4-iron, and it went beautifully just under the wind and kind of skipped up and stopped next to the hole. It really tests your wind game out here. And the greens are huge. So you have to be able to get the correct yardage, hit the shot that you want to, to have a chance at birdie.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Jane, thanks so much for coming in. Good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT