P&G BEAUTY NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
July 6, 2008
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay, birdie on 3.  
 JANE PARK: That was a 16-footer.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: What club?   
 JANE PARK: 6-iron to 15 feet, yeah.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay, 5?   
 JANE PARK: It was a pitching wedge to about 6 feet.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: We're going to go over your scorecard.  
 JANE PARK: I hit a lob wedge to 25 feet, and then 8 was a choke 7 to four and a half feet. Then, 9 was a choke 6 to 25 feet.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay, 10?   
 JANE PARK: 10, a pitching wedge to 8 feet.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Okay, 12?   
 JANE PARK: 12, a 8-iron to 15 feet. 3-wood on the green, two-putt.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Two-putt from?   
 JANE PARK: Two-putt from 35, 40 feet.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: 16?   
 JANE PARK: 16 was an 8-iron to 8 feet, and then 9 was a pitching wedge to 5 feet.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Thanks for coming in and join using today. Career best 10 under 62, and you also tied the tournament record that Angela Park set in her second round. Can you just talk about going out there and shooting a bogey free round and posting such a low number on the final day?   
 JANE PARK: Well, I came out this morning at 5:00 o'clock to finish my second round. I was a little tired, and I think I was so relaxed today, and I started to roll the ball really well early in the round, and I just got it going really quick.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: We're seeing so many low scores; is that the result of perfect condition?   
 JANE PARK: The wind really hasn't played a factor this week. Coming in on my last two holes, it was a bit windy. But it didn't really effect me at all.   
 The greens are rolling very pure. They're probably one of the most pure greens that we have on tour. Wherever you hit it, that's where the ball's going to go.   
 The putting green is great. The fairways are in good condition. I know we had a little trouble with the weather, but it doesn't really effect us at all.  
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Questions for Jane.  
  
  Q. When you started getting on a roll and hitting birdie after birdie, what was going through your head at the time? Were you just kind of in the zone? Were you kind of surprising yourself? What was going through your head?   
 JANE PARK: I wasn't really surprised. I just got off to such a great start. You know, once you start rattling off birdies like that, I just kind of lost track after my sixth one. I didn't even know how far under I was until I got up to 16, and at that point when I made birdie there I knew I was 9 under.   
 So my good friend, probably one of my best friends out here, Angela shot 62 yesterday. And maybe it kind of rubbed off on me.   
  
  Q. So you definitely feel like the putting was the best part of your game today?   
 JANE PARK: Yes. Last week at the U.S. Open I met an old friend of mine, her name is Barbara Womack. She works for the USGA, and she also won the U.S. Amateur back in 1940-something or something or other.   
 But she took a look at my putting and she's seen my game from when I was 16. So she knows when I putt the best how my body is and like how I set up. She found me a little funny and told me. And this is the result, so I really thank her.   
  
  Q. As of now you're in like a five-way tie for a lead in this tournament. Do you think there's anyway that will hold up over the last nine holes?   
 JANE PARK: I don't think so. The girls at the top are fantastic players. And scoring conditions are absolutely pristine out there right now.   
 There's a lot of birdie holes out there. And I wouldn't be surprised if I was somewhere in the top 5 by the end of the day. Hopefully, in the top 5.   
  
  Q. Last year as a rookie you had a loss at Q-school. Has becoming exempt made it a lot easier? Or is there a comfort zone to know that you're exempt this year so far?   
 JANE PARK: Absolutely, yes. Because you don't have to think, Oh, I need to make the cut and get into the top 10 to play next week, and I've got to make enough money this year to stay on the exempt list. So it's definitely a big weight off the shoulders.   
  
  Q. You're also now involved with the foundation with Michael J. Fox.   
 JANE PARK: Yes.  
  
  Q. How important is that cause to you?   
 JANE PARK: Well, I just wanted to -- I looked at a bunch of different charities. I really like the way Michael J. Fox ran their foundation. And I've had a couple of friends who have lost loved ones to Parkinson's disease.   
 It's a worldwide disease that affects 5 million people in the world, and 1.2 of them are in the United States. So I've got a lot of positive feedback, you know, through Fox and my friends and numerous people, so it's very important to me to always give back because, you know, the more fortunate should always help the less fortunate. And I just have a soft spot in my heart.   
  
  Q. Being from Los Angeles and UCLA, have you met him before?   
 JANE PARK: No, I have not met him before. I just recently started my association with them probably three weeks ago. So in mid-September I'm going to be playing a Pro-Am in New York in between the two Alabama tournaments, and he might be there. So, yeah, that would be great.   
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Jane, thanks.   
 JANE PARK: No problem. Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT