LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
August 31, 2007
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Jane, thanks for coming in today.  You've got the low round of the day so far, a 6-under 66.  You've moved into second place with a 5-under 139 after 36 holes.  Can you talk about your round today? 
 JANE PARK:  Well, this morning the wind wasn't up.  So I tried to take advantage of that.  Yesterday was quite a bit more windier, so I wasn't able to really get a good scoring round under my belt. 
 But this morning, the conditions were great.  So I wouldn't be surprised to see a lot of low numbers out there today. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Can we go over your scorecard?  You had six birdies, no bogeys, and your first birdie was on hole 12. 
 JANE PARK:  Yeah, hole 12 was an 8-iron to eight feet. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  How far out were you? 
 JANE PARK:  About 140 yards. 
 15 was a pitching wedge to four feet from about 115 yards. 
 16 was a chip, it's a par 5 and I chipped it up to about five feet. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  How far was the chip from? 
 JANE PARK:  Probably about 40 yards. 
 1 was a 50-degree wedge from 95 yards to about 15 feet. 
 No. 2 was an 8-iron from 135 yards to eight feet. 
 And 7 was a 7-iron to 15 feet from 150 yards. 

 Q.  How were the conditions out there today, and did the wind pick up later in the round? 
 JANE PARK:  The wind started to pick up actually just before I got to my back nine.  It wasn't as windy as yesterday, but towards the end of the round, the wind started to swirl a little bit more.  But fortunately it stayed pretty calm throughout my entire round. 

 Q.  What was working for you? 
 JANE PARK:  Well, I've been working a lot on my driving, because that's been ailing me this year.  But I've gotten a lot more consistent off the tee, which gives me more opportunities to hit greens.  That's been working a lot better for me the past couple of tournaments.  My driving is a lot better, and I can sharpen up my iron game a little bit more so I can have more opportunities at birdie. 
 But overall, most of my game is pretty good. 

 Q.  (Your putting must have been good today). 
 JANE PARK:  Yeah, I just -- these greens out here aren't too fast.  They are not too tricky to read.  Once you have a good line on your putt and you hit it with the speed, it usually holds its line pretty well.  Yeah, I think the numbers are going to be pretty low out here by the end of the tournament. 

 Q.  A 67 (66), were there a few, a couple of birdies maybe you left out there on the edge or anything, a few near misses? 
 JANE PARK:  I think the only one was probably my 17th hole today, which is No. 8.  I hit a pretty good iron shot in there to about 15 feet below the hole, and it had a lot of break on it.  I kind of misread it but that was the only one.  So I played pretty consistently today. 

 Q.  You had an outstanding amateur career, came out -- you're non-exempt this year? 
 JANE PARK:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Still, how old are you, 19? 
 JANE PARK:  I'm 20. 

 Q.  I'm sorry. 
 JANE PARK:  That's okay. 

 Q.  Have you told yourself you're going to be patient, that type of thing?  I know expectations when you have a great amateur career, but what's your philosophy? 
 JANE PARK:  Obviously to stay patient.  And since I don't get to play as many tournaments as the other players do, I try to capitalize on the times that I do get to play. 
 Unfortunately I haven't been able to capitalize as much as I wanted to with the opportunities that I did get to play.  I have gotten very close to having -- to pulling together a good tournament, but I would -- you know, always have a round that kind of throws me out of contention. 
 But, you know, I'm seeing progress in my game.  I'm putting myself in position, and I'm getting more used to the feel of being out here week-by-week and trying to -- just trying to minimize mistakes.  I think that's the thing that I'm learning the most right now is to minimize mistakes. 

 Q.  You were born in Chicago? 
 JANE PARK:  Yes. 

 Q.  How long did your family live in Chicago? 
 JANE PARK:  I was born in Chicago and then I think I moved to L.A. when I was about five. 

 Q.  So pretty young? 
 JANE PARK:  Pretty young, yeah.  I'm pretty L.A./California girl. 

 Q.  Do you have any other relatives or anything in Chicago? 
 JANE PARK:  Yes, I actually have a lot of family in Chicago.  Let's see, my uncle, my aunt, only two of them have come down so far.  They live in Glenview, Illinois, so they drove about 3 1/2 hours, which is not too bad.  But probably by the weekend, I'll probably have more family out here.  
 Q.  Your aunt and uncle, what are their names? 
 JANE PARK:  I just call them Aunt and Uncle.  They have got complicated Korean names, so I'm not sure.  (Laughing). 

 Q.  What was different today than yesterday? 
 JANE PARK:  Well, I took some time on the driving range yesterday after my round.  I didn't hit it awful but I wasn't hitting it close enough to make birdies. 
 So this morning my dad just told me, you know, you're driving the ball great and you're putting yourself in position in the fairway and you're just not capitalizing on your iron shots.  I just fired more at pins today and the wind wasn't up, so I had more opportunities at birdie, just firing at pins. 

 Q.  You mentioned your dad.  What's your dad's name? 
 JANE PARK:  "Dad."  His name's Byung Ok Park, but everyone calls him Frank. 

 Q.  Is he sort of your coach? 
 JANE PARK:  Yeah.  He's my coach.  He's been coaching me ever since I was, you know, 11.  So pretty -- ever since I started golf, and he knows my game the best. 

 Q.  You said you expect some low scoring this afternoon; how close do you think you'll be at the end? 
 JANE PARK:  Hopefully by day's end, I'll be in the Top-10.  That would be great. 
 There's a lot of good wind players out here, and I wouldn't be surprised I'm in the Top-10.  I don't know if I may in the lead or second or whatever, but if I may in the Top-10, that would be great. 

 Q.  A lot could happen this afternoon, but as we speak, is this one of the better positions you're in at the halfway point so far this year? 
 JANE PARK:  Very much so.  I had a similar opportunity like this earlier this year at Sybase.  I forget if Sybase was a four-day -- yeah, it was a four-day tournament.  After two days, I was in second place behind Lorena and Sarah Lee.  Yeah, I had a great opportunity there, and hopefully I can capitalize on this one. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT