SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 18, 2007
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JANE PARK:  9, I hit a 4-iron from 175.  To about 20 feet and made the putt. 
 10 I flailed by drive to the right and I punched out with a rescue, and I hit it a little too far to the opposite side of the fairway to about 50 yard short of the green and I 3-putted from where I hit it.  I hit it over the green; 3-putt. 
 On 11 I hit a great drive and a rescue from about 210 to about 4 feet.  And made the putt for eagle. 
 13, I hit a 50-degree wedge to about, let's see, like 15 -- 12 feet above the hole and I made the putt. 
 The next one, 16, I hit a 9-iron to about 20 feet short of the hole and I made the putt. 
 And on 18, I hit a another 9-iron to about four feet above the hole and I made the putt. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Jane, another great round, you're in third place.  Do you want to talk about your round a little bit before we open up to questions? 
 JANE PARK:  The front nine was a bit of a struggle for me.  I was missing almost every fairway and punching out, and this rough is terribly long so you can't really advance the ball very par.  I was leaving myself with 30-, 40-yard shots and hitting it to about six, seven, eight feet and making the putts for par.  I did that about four or five times on the front nine.  It was a big struggle.  But it took me nine holes to finally get ahold of my driver, and fortunately, it worked out. 

 Q.  The players that went out in the afternoon were probably looking at Sarah Lee's numbers early; she had it to 10-under at some point.  In and around the time you started, did you notice that number and what's your mind-set going in? 
 JANE PARK:  I did not look at a scoreboard at all today, not in the morning, not through out the entire did I.  I didn't look at a scoreboard. 
 I think, you know, it's pointless to look at the scoreboard now because it's so early in the week.  And when you see other girls doing really well, you kind of push yourself and that's not what you want.  You just want to be patient out here.  This morning I told myself I'm not going to look at the scoreboard. 

 Q.  Where were you born? 
 JANE PARK:  I was born in Chicago. 

 Q.  Have you always lived in it country? 
 JANE PARK:  Yes, I was born in Chicago and went to school in L.A. and went to UCLA. 

 Q.  Do you consider this uncharted territory for you? 
 JANE PARK:  Little bit.  I haven't been this far up the leaderboard before, except last year at the Women's Open when I was like second or something like that. 

 Q.  When was that? 
 JANE PARK:  Last year at the Women's Open, after the second round. 
 So, it's a bit unfamiliar because I haven't been here a whole lot, but it's good to see that I can still kind of play. 

 Q.  Was it a difficult decision for you to leave college and what went into it?  You obviously felt like you were ready, but was it a tough decision to leave a great, beautiful campus? 
 JANE PARK:  Yes, definitely a beautiful campus, best campus in the world.  It wasn't really a difficult decision.  I knew that this is what I wanted to do, and I wanted to come out here and try to get a little ahead start because other girls didn't go to college at all.  But I really wanted to experience it.  I felt that I was ready to take this step forward. 

 Q.  How many years were you in college? 
 JANE PARK:  One year. 

 Q.  You mentioned some of the other girls.  Did you see like Paula Creamer winning obviously at the Sybase a couple of years ago; is that what you mean seeing some of the younger players coming out? 
 JANE PARK:  Exactly.  I grew up with Paula, Julieta, Brittany Lincicome.  I grew up playing junior golf with them, and it's great to see them playing so well out here. 
 It's an inspiration, it really is.  I feel like, you know, I'm out here with my peers and I'm just having fun. 

 Q.  Do you consider yourself part of this Se Ri Pak line of young players who have jumped on this tour, or was that because you spent all your time in this country, not really? 
 JANE PARK:  No.  I'm the whitest Korean girl you'll ever meet.  I'm pretty white.  (Laughing). 

 Q.  Obviously you're non-exempt out here but talk about being two shots behind; obviously Sarah who is playing very well lately, and Lorena who is playing great.  Is that daunting or motivating? 
 JANE PARK:  It's motivating and it's humbling, because Lorena and other players are out there shooting these great numbers, and, you know, it's great to be in the same field as she is, and competing against here and all of the rest of the players out here.  They are all great players.  It's an honor to be out here, really. 

 Q.  You mentioned not looking at the leaderboards constantly; is that something you did in junior golf as well? 
 JANE PARK:  They didn't have those big electronic leaderboards when I was a junior. 
 Yeah, I just told myself that today; that I wouldn't look at a leaderboard, because you can get ahead of yourself very quickly.  But I told myself not to, so it worked out for the better. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT