SYBASE CLASSIC PRESENTED BY SHOPRITE
May 17, 2007
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Thank you for coming in and joining us today.  You actually shot 3-under today.  The scoreboard was wrong, but just talk about how you played today.  It was a great round. 
 JANE PARK:  Thank you.  The conditions are very scorable today.  The wind stayed down, and the greens were rolling very well, so it was a very scorable day. 
 PAM WARNER:  Let's go through your birdies and bogeys. 
 JANE PARK:  On 11, I hit a rescue into the water and I wasn't able to get up-and-down for that one. 
 On 13, I made about a 20-footer for birdie.  I think I hit a 9-iron. 
 14 was also a 9-iron from 20 feet. 
 17, I bogeyed.  I hit a 5-iron to the front of the green and I didn't get up-and-down. 
 And 18, I made about a 35 footer for birdie. 
 On 5, I made a 6-footer for birdie after hitting a lob-wedge. 
 7, I made a really long putt, like a 40-footer for birdie. 
 On 9, I hit my tee shot to the right and chipped out and I couldn't get up-and-down. 
 8, I hit an 8-iron to about six feet passed the hole. 

 Q.  What was working for you well today?  Was it the whole thing, scrambling, driving?  What do you think was working for you? 
 JANE PARK:  My driving was actually awful today.  I did not hit a lot of good tee shots but I was able to scramble and make a couple of good up-and-downs.  And the holes that I did hit a good shot on, I was able to capitalize on the birdie opportunity, so my putter was working well today. 

 Q.  You're a young player out here, how much do you have to make sure you don't get too impatient to win and just know that you're playing a lot of new courses and that you have to just take it more week-by-week and month-by-month? 
 JANE PARK:  Oh, yes, definitely, this is, you know, not a sprint; it's a marathon.  That's what I always think of it as.  And it's only the first day, so the mentality I have is just to be patient for the rest of the week and the rest of the season as well. 

 Q.  Your status is non-exempt? 
 JANE PARK:  Non-exempt. 

 Q.  So this is your second tournament? 
 JANE PARK:  Second event. 

 Q.  How has it been waiting for the opportunity? 
 JANE PARK:  I've been playing a couple of FUTURES events on the weeks that I have not gotten in and that's been a good experience, as well.  The FUTURES Tour is very hospitalable and it's very exciting when I do get into tournaments. 

 Q.  When you were on 9, it seems like it was two groups? 
 JANE PARK:  Yeah, it was a long wait. 

 Q.  What happened? 
 JANE PARK:  I think it's just a tough hole, and it's a long second shot in, and I think that's what caused the difficulty on that hole.  I came out of my shot on that and I'm going to work on that on the driving range after this. 

 Q.  There have been a lot of very low scores and very good scores out there today.  Why is the scores being so receptive to scoring? 
 JANE PARK:  I think Mother Nature is giving us a break today.  It's not windy.  It's only breezy on a couple of holes, and for the most part, the greens are rolling very well.  There's, you know, the greens are basically immaculate.  So I think good putting greens and low wind causes good scoring. 

 Q.  How much confidence did you take from the U.S. Women's Open at Newport where you were on the leaderboard it seems like from the beginning and you had a strong week on a course that was playing really difficult. 
 JANE PARK:  Well, that was definitely a good experience, and playing in the U.S. Open is probably, you know, the greatest lesson you can learn because it teaches you patience because it's not a golf course you can tear up because par is always a great score out there. 
 It just teaches me just to be patient and puts will fall in eventually. 

 Q.  What's your opinion of the Big Break television show?  I know there are a couple of players out here? 
 JANE PARK:  Oh, I think it's great. 

 Q.  You like it? 
 JANE PARK:  Oh, yeah, it keeps me on my toes.  When I was at school at UCLA, my roommate and I just watched that weekly and we would be yelling and screaming at the TV because we were rooting for Becky.  She's a good friend of mine, as well.  It's exciting.  It's just like any other reality TV show; it's exciting. 

 Q.  Talking to Brietta, she won the Trump version of the show and she said some people view her more as a celebrity than a golfer because she's on TV on that format but it seems like they have game a lot. 
 JANE PARK:  Oh, yeah. 

 Q.  Do you agree with that even though they are playing on a TV show? 
 JANE PARK:  Definitely they have game.  Have you seen some of the things they do?  It's crazy.  They have should really tough challenges on that show and all of them are good players, all of them.  They would not be on there if they weren't. 
 PAM WARNER:  Thank you very much, Jane. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT