ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 8, 2019
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Joint lead, 8-under.  What was going right out there?
JANE PARK: Well, I have to say, it's my husband's birth day today, and he's a caddie out here.  He caddies for Ariya Jutanugarn, so I want to say happy birthday and I shot this for you.
Well, honestly, I had a pretty crappy warm up this morning on the range.  I just had a feeling, it's probably going to be a good day, because whenever I have a crappy warm-up, you honestly stop thinking about things.  You stop thinking about mechanics.  You just go out and hit shots.  On this course, you kind of have to hit some pretty good golf shots, and thankfully, I was able to do that today.
Q. You say you were hitting it so badly on the range, you took the pressure off yourself?
JANE PARK: Pretty much.  I just had no expectations.  I was just thinking, let's scrape it around today and thankfully I shot a good number.
Q. A good day to score well; so with the wind and rain coming, it was important to go low?
JANE PARK: Yes, I'm very happy with my start.  I heard the end of the world is coming tomorrow, so I'll be sleeping in the morning and hopefully I'll wake up to some sunshine, but if not, we'll deal with that when I get there.
Q. No one likes playing in the wind and rain, unless you're slightly bad, but how do you deal with it?  Does it really bother your golf, or are you somebody who takes it in stride?
JANE PARK: Well, I guess according to you, I'm really mad because I love playing in the winds and rain.  It's a super challenge, obviously, but it kind of makes you dig deep and make some good putts and good pars.  I think my game is really good for grinding out some pars.  I'm looking forward to it, whatever tomorrow brings.
Q. Can I ask what your birthday plans are for your husband?
JANE PARK: I think he's going to ditch me and go play North Berwick.  So that means I've got a day to myself.  We might go to dinner later, but yeah, he's going to play golf.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT