U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2006
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Well, Jane, you're in a much better position than you were last year at the Women's Open, as I recall.
JANE PARK:  Yes.
Q.  Last year at Cherry Hills you missed the cut, and you were kind of losing your faith in yourself and in your game.
JANE PARK:  Yeah.
Q.  What's the difference this year?
 JANE PARK:  I came out here with a whole new attitude.  I haven't had a good year so far, but I went to college, and I didn't play very well.  I know I'm a better player than that.

I came out here, and I have nothing to lose.  So I came out here and I'm having fun.  This is just a ball for me.  I'm having a great time.
Q.  What makes you have fun this week as opposed to others?
 JANE PARK:  I don't know, I came out here with a whole new attitude, like before I would never think, you know, I want to win the tournament, but I came out here and I'm playing well, so, you know, why not?
Q.  Let's talk about your round a little bit today.  The winds picked up.  Was it a much tougher day than yesterday?
 JANE PARK:  Most definitely.  It was very tough.  Afternoon tee times are always, always tough, especially out on the back nine when the wind is swirling right next to the ocean.  The wind is coming off strong, but yes, for the most part it was playing very much tougher today.
Q.  You see Annika shooting par, do you figure that par is going to be a good score today?
 JANE PARK:  That was a wonderful score, yeah.  I would have loved to have shot even par today, but I'll settle for 2 over par.
Q.  16 pars, two bogeys, right?
JANE PARK:  Yes.
Q.  What happened on the two bogeys?
 JANE PARK:  I bogeyed No. 5.  It was a Rescue.  I was trying to knock it down and I came out of it and put it into the right bunker and missed a four footer for par.

My other bogey was 15.  I hit a great drive, but once again, I kind of overjudged the wind and then I pushed my shot to the right.  I had a very difficult chip.  It was not very up and downable (laughing), and the percentage wasn't great on that chip.  But yeah, those two bogeys, I'm not too disappointed with them.  I made a lot of great par saves today, and for the most part I think I'm pretty happy with what I shot today.
Q.  36 holes tomorrow, how do you feel?  Is it an advantage for you with your age over maybe some other players, or how do you feel about playing 36?
 JANE PARK:  I feel good about it.  I've done it a couple times playing in these USGA match play events.  I'm just going to eat a lot tomorrow.  That's what you've got to do on those long days.
Q.  Do you sleep okay with the lead?
 JANE PARK:  Oh, I slept like a baby last night, for like 12 hours.  I passed out at like 7:00 and I woke up at 6:30 or something.  I was exhausted because the back to back 7:00 tee times.  Yeah, I sleep just fine, no matter what.
Q.  What will you be trying to do tomorrow?  You did win the Women's Amateur playing a 36 hole final and you went the entire 36 holes, but what will you be trying to do tomorrow, stroke play Women's Open?
 JANE PARK:  Definitely trying to make pars and trying to capitalize on birdies.  But today I had a couple of great birdie opportunities on 1 and 2, but unfortunately my putting was kind of off today.

But for the most part just to make pars and try to capitalize on the birdies when they come.
Q.  How about the chance that you might play with either Annika or Michelle tomorrow?
JANE PARK:  I'm excited.  Yeah, I'm looking forward to that.  It'll be great.
Q.  One of the things you said excited you this week, the crowds and the whole atmosphere.
 JANE PARK:  Well, the crowd    I love playing in front of people, and the people out here are so nice.  It's just great, even if you hit a bad shot they still clap for you.  That's the good part about it.
Q.  How was the wind compared to yesterday and the last couple days?
 JANE PARK:  I'd say the wind was just a bit stronger today, especially because we were playing in the afternoon.  It was windy yesterday, as well, but we got more gusts today, that was the difference.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT