U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2006
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   Great round.
JANE PARK:  Thank you.
Q.  Started on the back 9, birdied the first hole.  What were the course conditions like?  Obviously you played well and you liked it.  Was it muddy, was it soggy?
 JANE PARK:  It wasn't as bad as I thought it would be.  I heard the thunderstorm last night.  But I thought the course was going to be pretty much unplayable today.

They did a great job cleaning up the course.  It was very wet out there.  I took about four or five drops.  But for the most part it was playable.
Q.  You were concerned about the fairways being wet.  What sort of clubs were you hitting into the green?
 JANE PARK:  A lot of par 4s out here.  I'm hitting driver, Rescue.  All the holes are playing really long.  Par 3s are playing long.  The ball is not rolling or bouncing up on the green.  So, yeah, all the holes are playing super long.  But thankfully you guys moved up the tees for us.
Q.  This round is sort of a ray of sunshine for you.  You're a former Women's Amateur champion, made the Curtis Cup again, but you struggled a little bit in college golf.  All of a sudden here you are?
 JANE PARK:  I love the atmosphere here.  I haven't been in this kind of atmosphere here for a year.  Coming out here and playing with Wendy and my good friend Oui, it's good to be out here again.

I really missed this.  I haven't been in a professional tournament in a year.  It's great to be out here again, seeing all these people and the people I look up to.  It inspires me to play my best and be my best.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 JANE PARK:  It was cloudy and it wasn't    well, you know, I've never been more calm, like in a Women's Open before.  Like teeing off today, I've played four U.S. Opens, on the first hole today it felt like a practice round, because I've played three, four practice rounds here.  So I just kind of thought of it as a practice round and hit a good drive off hole 1, that just set the mood, so it was great.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 JANE PARK:  I warmed up three times yesterday because I thought we were going to go off.  But I wasn't really nervous at all today.  It was just going out there and having fun, because that's all you can do out here.  I've got nothing to lose.
Q.  How receptive is the course?
 JANE PARK:  I think it's really    I think it's very playable, first of all.  And I left a lot of putts out there today.  I had probably two birdie opportunities that I should have converted, probably within like ten feet, like on the final hole.  I had a downhill putt, it was really scary, so I left it short.  I'm not too disappointed with that.  But I think    yeah, there's going to be someone lower than a 69.  I wouldn't be surprised.
Q.  What was it like just walking?
 JANE PARK:  You know, I'm going to bring out my boots tomorrow if it doesn't dry out tomorrow.  But it's great.  I still love it.  It's wet, but, you're playing in the U.S. Open, so I can't complain.
Q.  (Inaudible).
 JANE PARK:  I'm not much of a big hitter, I'm just average, I guess, and sometimes I can hit it long.  But, yeah, definitely you can    you've just got to keep the ball low, so you don't get those plug balls.  I got a couple of those today.  If you keep the ball low, rolling, and the course is drying up, the last six or seven holes the course was pretty dry around the green.  And I think that's what really matters is around the green if you land it short then it will have a chance to roll up, but if it's wet, then it wouldn't have a chance.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JANE PARK:  It was '03    no, '02    was it '03?  Witch Hollow at    Pumpkin Ridge, yeah, Pumpkin Ridge.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT