U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2004
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RHONDA GLENN:  Well, Jane Park, I've got you as 1, 2, 3, 4, I've got 1 over.
JANE PARK:  1 over?
RHONDA GLENN:  1 over par.
JANE PARK:  Really?
RHONDA GLENN:  Four bogeys, three birdies.  Okay.  It got pretty scary there.  Congratulations first of all.
JANE PARK:  Thank you.
RHONDA GLENN:  That was a wonderful win.  I think maybe your composure helped you a lot there.  But from what I heard it got pretty scary on those closing holes.  Could you maybe take us from 13 on in.  You lost 13.  To go 2-down.  You had a bogey.  Par-4.
JANE PARK:  Right.  My second shot caught the first cut of rough.  And I really had a really good lie.  The ball was above my feet.  So I said, don't miss it -- my caddy just said, keep it on green.  Because she was on the green.  And that was a wonderful shot she hit.  I was like "wow".  But I had an uphill lie and I flared it out to the right because I was trying to over compensate for the lie.  And I hit a good bunker shot, but the putt wasn't even close.  And then on 14.
RHONDA GLENN:  She made 6.
JANE PARK:  Yeah, she didn't hit a good drive on that hole.  And I hit it down the center.  And I went up and I made a par and I won that hole and then on.
RHONDA GLENN:  Did you hit the green in regulation?
JANE PARK:  No, I was like 10 yards left.  10 yards short and left of the green in the rough.

I just had a 2-putt for par.  And I won the hole.

Then on 15, I had around 200 yards to the hole and I choked down my 5-wood like an inch and went back two club lengths from the tee and I hit a really, really good nice high fade into that hole.  And I had about a 10-footer for birdie and it lipped out and hers lipped out for par and because she was in the front of the green and that was a tough putt.
RHONDA GLENN:  She 3-putted then.
JANE PARK:  Yeah, she 3-putted.
RHONDA GLENN:  Now 16 you drove your ball a little bit left.
JANE PARK:  My God.
RHONDA GLENN:  I saw you hit your tee shot.  So help us out there.
JANE PARK:  I was really like I wasn't nervous at all today.  At any point in the match.  Didn't matter where I was.  I just got up to the tee and I just I was hitting great tee shots all day.  And I was just up there telling myself, you know, saying, same thing you did yesterday, but I think I came over the top a little bit and I went left and kicked it way left.  And my second shot I had a branch right in front of my eyes and the ball was down there.  So one of my eyes was covered by the branch and one of my eyes had the ball in sight.  So I was like my cousin was just like, you know, just get over the bunker.  And I was like, I don't even know if I can make contact with the ball because I can't even see it.  So I had an 8-iron and I hit it and I didn't hit it very good and I went into the bunker.  But I made a bogey and that was enough to win the hole.  Because she made a, three 3-putted from about was that like six feet?
Q.  8 feet.
JANE PARK:  Somewhere around there.  And she opened the door for me there.
RHONDA GLENN:  17 was pretty interesting too wasn't it.
JANE PARK:  17.  That almost gave my friggin family a heart attack.
RHONDA GLENN:  Okay.  You hit the green didn't you?
JANE PARK:  Yeah.  I did.
RHONDA GLENN:  You were 25 feet away?
JANE PARK:  No, I was like 40 feet away.
RHONDA GLENN:  For your first putt.
JANE PARK:  Yeah.  I hit a good drive.  She hit it left.  And my cousin was just like put it on the green, anywhere on the green just 2-putt and get out of here, two up, right?  And I hit a pretty good, I had about 150, 152 yards to the pin.  And on that hole you want to be past the pin but not as much as I am, as I was.  Because if you're short then you'll go down either side.  And I had the a good 6-iron in there and I thought it was pretty good.  And I didn't think that putt was that fast.  I just didn't even hit it that hard and it just rock Ted like five feet from the hole just started going boom.  And I was like, oh, great.  And she almost made her putt.  I thought her putt was short, because it was so slow and it just kept rolling and rolling and rolling.  And I made a good chip up there.
RHONDA GLENN:  So how long was the chip?  You were 40 feet away, you putted past the hole off the green.
JANE PARK:  I had like 25 yard chip.  And I chipped it up there.  It was an easy chip.  I was thinking just get it up-and-down for bogey because her putt is impossible.  But she almost made it.  But I chipped it up there, to about two and a half feet below the hole.  And I'm really confident with my short putts right now.  My stroke's really good.  So I just had that two footer, two and a half footer.  And I made it.  And then on 18, I hit a good drive, she hit a good drive too.
RHONDA GLENN:  Let's talk about the second shot.  I heard your dad talking to your cousin saying, she should have played to the left of the hole on that hole.
JANE PARK:  Which one?
RHONDA GLENN:  On 18 for your second shot.  And instead you went right for the flag stick.  And it was pretty close to the right edge and your cousin said she just had so much adrenaline on that so.
JANE PARK:  I had about, oh, my gosh, it was playing around 150.  And I had an 8-iron in my hand.  And I don't think it was going to go over because I don't hit my 8-iron 158 yards.  It went like almost over the green, so it went about 155 or something.  And I hit it so solid and I was just like sit, sit.  ButÂ  --
RHONDA GLENN:  But were you trying to hit it at the flag stick?
JANE PARK:  Yeah, I was.  I was actually I was going a little left.  But then I hit my fade, you know.  And it was like I aimed probably five feet left.  Because I didn't want to go right.  Because right's crap.  But I aimed it five feet left and hit my nice little fade and it just rocketed.  I don't know why.  I hit it really solid and I didn't think it was going to go that much over, but it did.  And she 3-putted for me.
RHONDA GLENN:  I know.  And how did you feel?
JANE PARK:  I was like, thank you, lord.  I didn't have to make that four, three, three and a half footer.  Downhill a little bit.  I knew I was going to make it even if I had to putt it because my short putting's really good right now.  So.
Q.  Well, you're back in the championship match again.  This is three straight now.  Do you think maybe it's time to put the gold medal on?
JANE PARK:  Yeah, I think so.  I'll just go out there and play one shot at a time.  That's what I've been doing all week and it's been working.  So I'm not going to change my game plan.  Not thinking it's the championship match.  Just go out there and play golf.  Have fun.
Q.  How many times did you hit driver today?
JANE PARK:  Three.
Q.  Three.  Which holes?
JANE PARK:  7, 8 and 14.
Q.  Has that been the whole week?
JANE PARK:  Yup.  Stroke play I didn't.  I played more aggressive during stroke play.  And that's why I didn't have a good score on the first day.  Because I kept missing the fairway with my driver.  But I actually almost hit my 3-wood as far as my driver.
Q.  And how far is that?
JANE PARK:  Like 250.  Maybe sometimes if I kill it it's like 260.  Like on hole 10, Sarah hit a really nice drive and I hit a really good 3-wood and I was like a yard in back of her.
Q.  What kind of 3-wood is that?
JANE PARK:  It's a 3-wood plus.  I'm cheating a little bit.  But I practiced a lot because that's a hard club to hit and a lot of practice went in that.  So I'm really confident with my 3-wood like now.  I really like it.
Q.  Is that a Callaway?
JANE PARK:  Callaway.
Q.  Are you going to go to the Golden Corral again last night?
JANE PARK:  Yes.
Q.  Did they get your steaks right?
JANE PARK:  No.  You guys put that in the paper today.  I can't believe you did that.
Q.  I didn't put the restaurant though, I didn't want to plug the restaurant.
JANE PARK:  There you go.
Q.  But we did plug your diet?
JANE PARK:  There's only one buffet in like a 50 mile vicinity, so.
Q.  No, there's about six buffets.  There really is.  You're a public forum here.
RHONDA GLENN:  What about tonight?  Any different approach you going to go back to the Corral?
JANE PARK:  I have, when I went to the U.S. Open I stayed with, I stayed in housing.  And that was in Massachusetts.  So the housing people, the housing lady and the guy came, drove down last night and they're here to watch me play.  So I think I'm just going to have -- I don't know we might go back there.
Q.  What are their names?
JANE PARK:  Caroline and Ed.  And they have their granddaughter with them.
Q.  What's their last name?
JANE PARK:  It's really hard to spell.  I can't even pronounce it.  S Z K L A R Z?
RHONDA GLENN:  And they have a granddaughter?
JANE PARK:  Her name is Stephanie.
RHONDA GLENN:  And how old is she?
JANE PARK:  She's, I want to say 13.
Q.  Are you a little shocked not to see Paula in the other?
JANE PARK:  Shocked?
Q.  Yeah, she didn't get through.
JANE PARK:  I don't know.  Because I've never heard of Amanda and I don't know what she's capable of.  And I heard Paula didn't play very well today.  You have rounds like that.  You can't always play well.  And I guess that's just what happened to her today.
Q.  She hit five of 14 greens today.
JANE PARK:  Really?
Q.  After hitting 11 of 12 fairways?
JANE PARK:  Really?
Q.  Yeah.
JANE PARK:  Hmm.  That's golf.  That's golf for you.
RHONDA GLENN:  Do you have any kind of superstitions about tomorrow, lucky shirt or something?
JANE PARK:  I am wearing a very cute shirt tomorrow.
RHONDA GLENN:  What is it like?
JANE PARK:  It's a Tommy Hilfiger shirt.  I got it before I came here.  It's probably my favorite shirt and I was saving it for tomorrow.  I said, I'm going to win my match today and wear this cute shirt tomorrow and be on TV.  So I'm going to wear my white hat as usual and it's a navy top, sleeveless and white shorts.
RHONDA GLENN:  Perfect.  My dad used to tell me, he said, don't save any clothes, wear your first things, early matches, you never know.
JANE PARK:  Nope, but I was confident.
RHONDA GLENN:  You sure were.
Q.  What have you taken from this?  You've been to two straight finals, played Curtis Cup, The Opens, what is the confidence you have?  This girl you're playing has never been in this situation, how much advantage do you think you have experience wise?
JANE PARK:  Considering I don't know what she's capable of, what she's done, you know, I don't really know her that well.  I think I have to -- I think I have to play harder because I don't know what she's going to do and I don't know what her strengths are, her weaknesses are, so I think it's just going to take a couple holes tomorrow morning to see how she plays and if she's conservative or if she's aggressive.  But I think if I just play like I did today, or look I played when I defeated Kim, when I shot 6-under in 14 holes, that will be nice too.  But par, par is good.  I think par will come out on top tomorrow.
Q.  That's what she shot today, pretty much.  She shot par?
JANE PARK:  I think par is going to be great tomorrow.
RHONDA GLENN:  Okay.  Does everybody have what they need?  Thank you very much.
JANE PARK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT