U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2004
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
How did you feel like you played today?
JANE PARK:  Much better than yesterday's second match.  I only made one mistake today.

And that was on the first hole.  I don't think it was a mistake, it was just a very bad putting stroke.  I didn't even -- I wasn't even close to hitting the hole.

I had like a four-footer uphill.  I probably missed the hole by this much (Indicating) on the left.  That was -- I was amazed.
Q.  Did you guys both bogey the hole?
JANE PARK:  Yeah.  And that was my only bogey of the day, I think.  Yeah.  That was my only bogey of the day.
Q.  I saw you made a nice clutch putt on 8.  That must have been like 10 feet.  Downhill.  She was in there pretty close for birdie.  Did you feel like that was like a key moment?  I know you were up pretty good at that time but kind of just take away any chance of her getting any momentum?
JANE PARK:  Definitely.  You never want to let up in match play.  If you go 2-up you want to go 3-up.  If you go 3-up you want to go 4-up.  So I just knew I had to drain that putt.  So I just did.  That's the mentality.
Q.  Were you nervous at all today?
JANE PARK:  No.  I wasn't nervous at all.
Q.  Are you ever nervous?
JANE PARK:  I don't think so.  If I am, then I don't show it.  Every one tells me that you never look nervous.  I'm like, oh, sometimes I am, but I never show it.
Q.  Do you get nervous about other things beside golf like I mean aside from golf like do other things make you nervous?
JANE PARK:  Like school and stuff.
Q.  Like tests?
JANE PARK:  Not really tests.  It's just -- no, I don't get nervous.  I don't know.  I'm just an easygoing person.
Q.  You got three Curtis Cup players in the final four, I guess Sarah said that was a statement about how good your team was.  Do you think about that, any thoughts about that?
JANE PARK:  Our team was very young, but very deep in talent and skill.  And it is definitely showing in the tournament because this is the No. 1 amateur tournament in the world, am I mistaken?
Q.  I don't think so.  Maybe the ladies British, I guess.
JANE PARK:  Well that's a --
Q.  This is bigger I think?
JANE PARK:  Yeah, this is bigger.  Yeah, this is the biggest field for the amateurs and the strongest field.  Three Curtis Cuppers really says something about our team.  And how strong we were.  How many Curtis Cuppers made the cut?
Q.  Five.
JANE PARK:  Five.
Q.  Michelle and Liz were eliminated?
JANE PARK:  Michelle and Erica turned pro.
Q.  And Sue didn't make the cut.  And --
JANE PARK:  Right.  Right.  Our team was very solid.  That's all I got to say.
Q.  What makes you such a match play machine?
JANE PARK:  I don't know.
Q.  Look at the last year though, I mean this is pretty good stuff.
JANE PARK:  I don't know.
Q.  Why is that happening?  Do you prefer it?
JANE PARK:  WellÂ  --
Q.  Why?
JANE PARK:  If you look at my stroke play I'm much better at match play than stroke play I guess.  At least for this year though.
Q.  Why is that?
JANE PARK:  I don't know:  In match play I play a totally different game.  I just play -- I play two things.  I play my opponent and the golf course at the same time.  And I play more aggressive and this golf course makes you play, makes you have to place the ball in the right spot.  And in match playing if you do that then you'll be fine, so.  I guess you can say I prefer match play.  I guess my record shows that.
Q.  Do you think having gone all the way to the finals last year here or finals of the Girls Junior, you understand what you need to do to get through along week like this?  Does that help you do you think?
JANE PARK:  Um-hum.  I've gone through it before, I don't know if all the others have done it before.  Like Sarah and Paula.
Q.  Paula's gotten to semis.  She's not been to a final yet?
JANE PARK:  Okay.  I know what it takes, it takes a lot of energy, he eating a lot, and just good mentality.  You just got to -- I think this tournament's all about endurance and mentality and then it is your golf skill that comes out.  So you got to be strong to come out on top on this tournament.
Q.  And you're feeling pretty good.  Not tired at all?
JANE PARK:  No.
Q.  Feeling good?
JANE PARK:  Not tired at all of the my shoes are awesome.
Q.  You say it's about mentality, what kind of mentality do you have to have?
JANE PARK:  That it's never over.  Just to keep going and like an Energizer Bunny, you just keep going and going.  Just I definitely am eating more this week than I ever do.  Like on a regular basis like at home or something.  Because it drains you to be out there on the golf course for that many hours and playing and it drains you mentally too.  But then after it's over you're just, you just have are your down time and you're brain relaxes and once I got a good night's sleep I'm fine.
Q.  Do you eat certain things?
JANE PARK:  No.  I just eat anything.
Q.  So you eat junk too?  Just anything you want?  Candy?
JANE PARK:  I don't eat candy.  No candy, no soda.  It's been like that for awhile now.  I just try to eat a lot of carbs.
Q.  A girl just said that.
JANE PARK:  Well, especially during this week.  I never really pound on the carbs like outside of tournament, but especially this week I have to eat a lot of carbs.  Last night I had like three plates full of macaroni.  And two pizzas.  And some steak and someÂ  --
Q.  Where did you eat?
JANE PARK:  Golden Corral.
Q.  Oh, that's why.
JANE PARK:  That place is awesome.

(Laughter.) You guys ought to go there, really.
Q.  Are you stage in the Courtyard this week that's right across from the courtyard?
JANE PARK:  Golden Corral is like 20 minutes from here.  I'm staying like I'm staying at the Hampton Inn.  It's like 20 minutes away.  The food is just so good.
Q.  How many times have you eaten there this week?
JANE PARK:  Like five or six.
Q.  Is that where we can find you tonight?
JANE PARK:  Yes.  On the steak line.  The bad thing about that place is the guy at the steak line, you ask him for a medium he gives you like rare and well done.  He doesn't know how to cook a steak.  I could cook it better myself.
Q.  So what do you eat when you're on the course?
JANE PARK:  I eat just a banana at the turn.  I can't really eat a lot on the course because I'm concentrating and I don't notice that I'm hungry.  It may show up in my golf game because I'm getting fatigued or something, but.  Just a banana.  During the round.
Q.  So what kind of shoes are those that are great?
JANE PARK:  Callaway.  If you're feet hurt then your whole body hurts.
Q.  Are they new?
JANE PARK:  Yes, they're brand new.  I got them a week after U.S. Girls or I got them at U.S. Girls.  They sent them to me to the hotel.  They're really, really nice.  They're new.  They're, they have only been out with shoes for like a year now, I think.  Most comfortable I've ever had.
Q.  You will be their spokeswoman?
JANE PARK:  Maybe.  Really comfortable.
Q.  Did you and Sarah at all play with each other or against each other any practice round, at Sea Island at all?
JANE PARK:  Sea Island, I was paired with her as my partner, I think we shot like even par or something through 18 holes.  That's the only time I played with her.
Q.  So you have a little idea of her game?
JANE PARK:  It might have changed, I don't know.  I remember she's very consistent.  She's not very wild.  Off the tee or anything.  She's just down the center, on the green, 2-putt, you know.  And that's what I've been trying to do this whole week.  And it's been working.
KIMBERLY BROWN:  All right.  Well, thank you.
JANE PARK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT