ANA INSPIRATION
April 4, 2019
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I didn't see that long birdie.  
JANE PARK: 8?  I two-putted for par.   
 Q.  You did make par on 8?  
JANE PARK: Yes.   
 Q.  For some reason I thought you were 2-under.  
JANE PARK: I was.  I missed a short one on 7.   
 Q.  So tell me about when you were playing and practicing Goose Creek, when was that in your past?  How old?  
JANE PARK: Let's see, I started practicing there when was about 15.  Let's see, I moved from California when I was 22-ish, so, yeah, it was a good run.  Ross and Denise and their family are just some of my closest friends.   
 Q.  Yeah.  So how often do you and your husband play golf?  
JANE PARK: Honestly, on weeks off he plays a lot more than I do.  On weeks off I just want to not play golf, and he obviously, being a caddie, wants to play a little more.   
Yeah, he'll go out to the local club we belong to in Atlanta and play with at bunch of the boys, and that gets him out of my hair for a while.   
 Q.  So what kind of expectations do you have here?  
JANE PARK: Honestly, I was playing pretty well.  I had a good round last week in San Diego.  You know, this is one of my favorite stops just because it's such a great golf course.  Every single hole is such a challenge.  You've got to be on top of your game to be able to score well here.   
Obviously with a little luck, the putt on 17, I mean, it was just a huge putt from 50 feet and just happened to drop in.  Got a little bit lucky, too.   
So, yeah, it's a great place and I love it.  And my family is here.  Great week overall.   
 Q.  Did you come in thinking you wanted to just play well and be there or did you -- I mean, obviously you want to contend every week.  
JANE PARK: Yes.   
 Q.  Is that a realistic expectation for you?  
JANE PARK: Yes, absolutely.  Absolutely.  I just know I hit a lot of fairways.  Today I did not, but managed to scramble around the golf course.   
Yeah, if you hit the fairway and hit the greens and give yourself some chances, you can probably find yourself around there on Sunday.   
 Q.  A lot of players have talked about the rough getting thicker this year just because of all the rain we've had.  Have you noticed that?  
JANE PARK: Yeah, the rough is very penal out here.  If you don't drive it in the fairway you're kind of behind the eight ball, yeah.   
 Q.  So I hate to bring this up, but in Australia, when did you realize you had signed the wrong card?  
JANE PARK: I was on the way home with my husband in a courtesy car.  I honestly had no idea I had signed for the wrong score because I made such as amazing up and down on the last hole and felt like it was for bogey, but it was for double.   
My playing partner also wrote down a bogey instead of a double bogey.  She must have thought it was a good up and down, too.   
So, yeah, I honestly did not know until he said, Hey, I think you might have signed for the wrong score.  I did the math in my head and thought, Wow, yeah, that was definitely an boo boo.   
 Q.  So did you go back to the course??  
JANE PARK: No, I just called the rules official.  I said, Hey, I think I signed for the wrong score.  Pretty sure I'm DQd, but just let me know.  He called me back and he said, Yeah, sorry about.   
 Q.  That you were playing pretty well.  
JANE PARK: Yeah, I was under par and I was playing pretty well.  I haven't done that in probably ten years where I signed either the wrong score or didn't sign my scorecard.  I think I was due, so...   
 Q.  I think in ten years from now I think you probably would not like to do that again.  
JANE PARK: Yeah, probably not.   
 Q.  That's a 20-hour plane flight or something.  
JANE PARK: About a 30 hour.  I did a door-to-door travel from home to Australia, and I think it was about 31 hours.   
 Q.  That's a long way to go for two rounds when you really want to play four.  
JANE PARK: Yes.  I played three actually.  It was the third one, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT