BUICK LPGA SHANGHAI
October 18, 2018
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So a little different start this week than last week, right?  
JANE PARK: Yeah.   
 Q.  How did it feel to get going with a good round today?  
JANE PARK: It was awesome.  I had a really good group.  Jenny and Bronte are good friends and we kind of fed off each other.  We were all playing pretty decent, so it was nice to have that kind of help out there.   
 Q.  Get a chance to play with them much?  
JANE PARK: Yeah, I've played with both of them before.  We're just really good friends.  They made a few putts, I made a few putts, and we were having a good time.   
 Q.  Feel like you play some your best golf when you're just relaxed and playing with some buddies out there?  
JANE PARK: Absolutely.  Yeah, absolutely.  Especially if we're in a foreign country.  We're just trying help each other along, which is kind of what it's all about.   
 Q.  How do you like Shanghai?  
JANE PARK: I love it.  The hotel is great.  Food has been great.  We're just bearing down on week two of Asia and trying to keep a good attitude.  That's half the battle.   
 Q.  The mentality of playing in a tournament that has no cut, obviously last week things didn't start the way you wanted to but then you had a 64 on the third day.  
JANE PARK: Yeah.   
 Q.  Does it put your mind at ease knowing you have four days to play?  
JANE PARK: I would say I'm playing a little more aggressive knowing that even if I do make a bogey, not that it doesn't matter, but there is less consequence.  We're going to play for four days and all get paid at the end of the week.   
But it's a little more comforting to know there is no cut.   
 Q.  What's the best part of your game right now?  
JANE PARK: Right now?  I'm hitting a lot of fairways.  I've felt better about my putting the last few weeks.  I would say just my overall attitude has been better in the last few weeks.   
 Q.  Any particular reason why that is?  
JANE PARK: Just going into Asia knowing that you just have to kind of grind it out.  So if you kind of come in with kind of a bad attitude then it's easy to get down on yourself if you get off to a bad start.   
But, yeah, it's been really fun and obviously having fun is huge part of it as well.   
 Q.  And then lastly, what are your goals?  What are you hoping to do the rest of the year?  
JANE PARK: Rest of the year?  Obviously trying to win would be a goal of mine since I've never done it out here.  Best finish is second.  That's kind of a -- you know, just trying to take it one day at a time and not get too ahead of myself.   
But honestly, just getting a good round under my belt and trying make a lot of birdies would probably be my goal.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT