BLUE BAY LPGA
October 29, 2015
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 2-under is way up there on the leaderboard.  Is it tough conditions?  What was going on?
JANE PARK: I think I hit four or five greens today because it was -- you have a three-yard landing area to get perfect, and that's pretty hard to do.  The greens are hard, like very rock-hard, so you can't really hit it close.  Kind of have to strike bombs.
Q. And then coming into this week, was it a question mark?
JANE PARK: Yes.
Q. Withdrew in Korea?  How many holes did you get done?
JANE PARK: I withdrew after 54 holes.  Woke up with what I thought was an ingrown toenail but the next morning it was ten times worse and I thought, yeah, this is not really an ingrown toenail.  It's like a staph infection.
Q. It was from a pedicure?
JANE PARK: No, it was just from something -- I have no -- they couldn't identify what was the problem but it was definitely a staph infection.
Q. So they got a nurse?
JANE PARK: In Korea.
Q. And were you going to go to Taiwan?
JANE PARK: After I saw the doctor on Saturday, they said, do not go to Taiwan.  It's pretty bad.  I couldn't put a shoe on for a week.
Q. Were you planning on going?
JANE PARK: I was going to go.  I actually have an aunt that lives in Korea, so I stayed with her.  I stayed with her in Korea.  I was in the hospital for a week getting three shots of antibiotics a day.  It just turned -- it went from like 1 to like 10 overnight.  Just the severity of it and how fast it came on, I knew it was not just an ingrown toenail.
Q. Lucky your aunt was there.
JANE PARK: Yes, it was a blessing it happened in Korea, because if I was anywhere else, I would have had to have flown home.
Q. So obviously went down, no pain?
JANE PARK: Yes, it was about six days into treatment, I finally felt like I could put weight on my foot.  I had to keep it elevated.
Q. So when did you decide when it was good enough to say, I'm going to go try this out?
JANE PARK: The doc said, even before I started treatment, he said, "You'll be able to play next week."  But you just have to make sure I had it in cast and had it elevated.  I was pretty much ordered on bed rest.  It was torture.  I mean, for anyone, being on bed rest is awful, and let alone for being so active all the time is tortuous.
Q. Did you practice in Korea?
JANE PARK: No.  I left my clubs at the Hyatt just in storage.  I knew I wasn't going to do anything for the week.  Didn't touch a club.
Q. So you just came straight here?
JANE PARK: Yeah.
Q. Did you come here last year?
JANE PARK: No.  It's my first time here.  It's breathtaking.
Q. Did you walk the course at all?
JANE PARK: I played 18 on Tuesday.
Q. And you thought the course suited your game?  It's kind of long.
JANE PARK: It's long, and I don't hit it very far but I tend to really grind it out very well.  I do well when you need to make a lot of pars.  It looks like the conditions are really tough, and they were tough for me, too, as well.  I was lucky enough to make a lot of putts today.
Q. Closing stretch of this year, you're into CME.  Goals?
JANE PARK: Well, one of my goals at the beginning of the year was to make Lorena, which I did.  Honestly, it's been like an up-and-down year, but just to maybe end on a good note and get some confidence going into next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT