U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2015
Jane Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What went well for you today?JANE PARK: I think I stayed really mentally tough all day, and I was able to keep myself in the moment.  And I didn't really look at leaderboards today, I just tried to play my own game and focused on each shot and I'm really proud of that.Q. How was the golf course different today than the previous three days?JANE PARK: I thought it was pretty similar.  Pin placements were difficult, a lot of breaking putts.  But for the most part, I played really well in tough conditions and very happy with the result.Q. You had a top-10 for the week, what was your takeaway from the entire week?JANE PARK: The USGA, like I said before, these tournaments are all about grinding out, and I did just that.  And it gives me a lot more confidence going into the next couple of events coming up, including the British Open.  I'll try to pull from this tournament and try to keep going.Q. What went right for you this week?  Your season so far has been kind of --JANE PARK: Right.  I prepared a lot for this tournament.  I did a lot of specific practice.  And I felt really, really calm and very prepared coming into this event.  It's a learning process for me still, even after eight years on Tour.  I keep trying to learn a little more about myself and my game every week.  I learned leaps and bounds this week.Q. What is it about your preparation that you've learned?JANE PARK: I kind of practiced specific short game shots, a lot of breaking putts, obviously, and just tried to get myself into the right mindset, which was this week is going to be difficult, but don't let it get to you.Q. The folks in this community have never hosted an event of this caliber.  What is your takeaway spending the week here?JANE PARK: I love it here.  It's been such a fun week and it's quiet, which I really like.  I went to Amish town yesterday and saw some horses and buggies, had some homemade ice cream and it was a really, really fun weekend.Q. Aside from contending, do you think about finishing top 10, which obviously gets you back into next year?JANE PARK: You know, I wasn't really thinking about any of that.  Now that you mention it, that's kind of cool.  I really wasn't thinking about that.  And that's why I'm so proud of the way I did this week, I was able to stay in the moment.Q. What's the difference with this round and the first round compared to the middle rounds where the greens were a little bumpy?JANE PARK: I adjusted some things with my putting last night and I was a little more confident in the big breaking putts.  And fortunately a couple of them dropped for me.  Yeah, just like I said I learned a lot about myself and my putting and a different way to putt.Q. What was your adjustment?JANE PARK: I just gave it a little more break and just kind of kept the same speed.  All my putts seemed to be dying low, so just gave it a little more break.Q. So how do you make that adjustment?JANE PARK: Well, I see the line and then I just give it probably a couple inches more, just depending on what kind of speed I want to hit it with


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT