GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 20, 2000
Sean Murphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 SEAN MURPHY: Actually, I started on the back. Started on 10. 
 
 SEAN MURPHY: 13, I drove it all the way down in the bottom of the fairway just short of
the water. Hit 3-wood front left bunker, blasted out 6 feet; made my putt for birdie. Next
birdie came on 15. Hit driver in the fairway. Laid up on purpose with a 4-iron. Just laid
it back. Kind of gets narrow up there, and if you miss your fairway, you can make bogey
easy. Hit 6-iron. Pulled it left. Probably had a 40-footer; I made it. Wasn't planning on
making it, and it went in. 16, dead into the wind. Hit 4-iron from 190. 3-putted it up
over the tier from the first bogey. And then just missed birdie on 1 from 5 feet. Birdied
2. Laid it up; drove it in the left rough. Hit 9-iron in there 15 feet; made it. 3, I made
a 51-foot putt up over the tier, which was another godsend. And then on 5, I hit driver,
7-iron about 2 feet. 6, I hit 3-wood, 8-iron 4 feet. And that was it. Parred 8. 
 
Q. Your putter seemed like it was your best friend.
 
 SEAN MURPHY: My putter was definitely my best friend, no doubt about it. 
 
Q. One of your best putting rounds ever?
 
 SEAN MURPHY: No. No, it wasn't the best putting round ever. But it ranked up there. It
was pretty good.  
 
Q. You make those long ones like that, you said you're not expecting them to go in. You
think it's your day or your tournament?
 
 SEAN MURPHY: No. I think it's too early for that. But, you know, you're just trying not
to 3-putt. Trying to hit the first putt close so you don't leave yourself a lot of work.
And when it goes in, it's like: Wow. Nice. 
 
Q. Was it easier to score than you thought maybe out there today?
 
 SEAN MURPHY: No, I don't think it was easier to score. If it wasn't windy, it would
have certainly been ideal for scoring. But the wind I think is what kind of hammered some
of the lower scores. If there hadn't been any wind, there would have been lower scores, no
doubt about it, because the greens were soft. 
 
Q. Did the wind pick up as the day went on?
 
 SEAN MURPHY: For us it was steady from the beginning. Because I had two clubs more on
the second shot, 10, my first hole. 12, 15 -- so it's been blowing for us all day. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 SEAN MURPHY: It's great in Hawaii. Been consistent. I've been trying to avoid those
others. I keep seeming to have one or two bad holes a tournament that kind of cost me from
placing a little higher up. I feel like I'm close. Hitting lots of fairways and greens;
starting to make birdies. Putting has gotten better since Doral. I feel I'm averaging 4
birdies per round since Doral. I had 20 birdies at Honda. Need to avoid so many bogeys and
double bogeys. Only had one bogey on the round today, so I was pretty happy with that. 
 
Q. How often do you practice those long putts 40 -, 50-footers? Do you do that often or
not?
 
 SEAN MURPHY: Yeah, I do it every week on the putting green. Typically, I mostly putt
from 15 feet and in. 
 
Q. Do you think you're a good long putter or average?
 
 SEAN MURPHY: I feel like I've got pretty good pace on my ball. Good control of the
speed on my putts. That's probably what helps. I've been known to make a few long ones.  
 
Q. Starting in the afternoon, did you figure that you could get up close to the leaders
as the day wore on, or --?
 
 SEAN MURPHY: You know, I saw Lee Porter's day up there, thought they must have an easy
go with not much wind. They said it was blowing all morning. He must have had a good round
too. I thought it was a little more conducive to lower scores this morning. What I've
heard, it probably wasn't.  
 
Q. Easier to get off in the morning round tomorrow?
 
 SEAN MURPHY: I'll be first off. No. 1, whatever that first time is. And hopefully that
rain they've been calling for tomorrow morning won't show up. The course really needs to
dry out some more. This wind is helping, that's for sure. 
 
Q. Do you like being first group off?
 
 SEAN MURPHY: Yeah, I do. I like to get in a quicker pace. In the last of the tee times,
it seems to take quite a bit longer to play the round. Rick's playing well and Bill is.
When you get three guys not missing many greens and making putts, it seems to get you in a
better rhythm. 
 
Q. How well did your group finish total scoring today?
 
 SEAN MURPHY: Our group?  
 
Q. Yeah.
 
 SEAN MURPHY: I think we were -- let's see. I was 5. And I think Rick was 4-under. I
think we were 8-under. Bill shot 1-over. 
 
Q. Brian Henninger said he was feeding off Hal Sutton and Jesper playing with them. Did
you do the same thing?
 
 SEAN MURPHY: I don't think Bill's score indicated as well as he hit it today. But when
everybody's going right at the pin, you tend not to -- you get this tunnel vision, and it
seems to be addictive to the group.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT