WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SUN
September 17, 2005
Mike Thibault
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're here, now it's time to see if you can steal one from the Monarchs. 

COACH MIKE THIBAULT:  Yeah, that's the first goal.  Go get one more win right now, quickly, quicker the better.  We got a little bit lucky the other night to get the opportunity we did.  Because we mentally stayed in the game, it paid off for us.  Sometimes that's all you have to do is just give yourself a chance at the end and you figure out a way to do it, and we did.  There's no great strategy, there's no great anything else, other than hanging in and hanging in and hanging in, finding a way.  So now we got another life, now we got to go take advantage of it.

Q.  How important is this first road game?

COACH MIKE THIBAULT:  Well, it would be nicer to win this one and take a little bit of pressure off, knowing we have two games to win one after that.  But this series could go back and forth the whole time.  I have no idea.  I think you're going to see games similar to what you've already seen.  I mean you might have every game come down to the last possession.  That's how even these teams seem to be.  Especially when they play similar styles of play, too.  They both like to push it, they both play good defense, they both like to pass the ball.  So it's almost like watching mirror images sometimes.  I just have this feeling it's going to be that way the rest of the series. 

Q.  The Monarchs probably are expecting a little larger crowd than there was in Connecticut. 

COACH MIKE THIBAULT:  Well, it's a little bigger arena too, so.  It's loud in our building, it will be loud here.  We have been through it.  Having gone through what we saw in Seattle last year, we shouldn't be shocked by the noise or anything else.  I think we have gotten used to playing that way.  We have been a good road team, we're a veteran team now as far as going through this.  So I don't think we'll get intimidated by the crowd or anything tomorrow. 

Q.  How's Lindsay's ankle?

COACH MIKE THIBAULT:  Lindsay, we'll see after we practice today.  Until we test it, I really don't know.  Luckily it didn't get any worse with the flight or anything.  So we'll test it out and then she will do a pregame kind of body check before the game tomorrow, make sure all the parts work.  And then if it's good, she will go. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT