LOS ANGELES FOOTBALL CLUB MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 27, 2020
Latif Blessing
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







LAFC 4, Seattle 1
Q. Do you want to start off by giving us your thoughts on the match tonight?
LATIF BLESSING:   I think we need to win this game.  So just talk to our teammates, talk to everybody.  We all go into this game -- I think last year we played against Seattle.  It's like a Cup match.  This time it's around, it's like payback time.  We just work out receives out, we're going to win this game.  That's why it happened.  So everybody kind of keep going.  So I'm happy we won this game.
Q. I was wondering, how do you feel about your performance today, and that goal, was that deflected or you that hit it left?
LATIF BLESSING:   I think today my performance was so good.  I can feel like I played a very good game.  I think my shot was like going in.  It's like I think it's like going in, then you see the guy, and just like get own goal.  So I'm so happy for my performance tonight.  I feel like kind of happy; we won this game.  I'm so happy.
Q. Obviously that goal ended up being credited to you.  Can you talk about the midfield performance, and how that you guys were able to drop back and play a lot of defense in this game.
LATIF BLESSING:   Yeah, that's what I'm saying.  Like before the game, Bob just talk to me, like he need my energy, you know.  I think everybody told me, Latif, we need your energy.  I said to myself, I'm going to work myself out because everybody look at me to keep going.  So said to myself, tonight, I'm going to keep going.  So everybody is like, look up at me, like hey, this guy's going, so we have to keep going.  I'm so happy for my performance tonight.  I'm so happy.
Q. I wanted to ask about your next opponent in Orlando.  You're playing in Orlando.  Do you think you are going to have an advantage considering they are in their home market and used to the conditions a lot more than you guys, even though you've obviously been playing here for a couple weeks?
LATIF BLESSING:   Yeah, Orlando a good club.  It's a good team.  We, too, are preparing.  We are here to win the trophy.  So any time, any opponent will come.  We are going to work ourselves out to get the point, so we are ready for anything that will come.  LAFC, they're a better team, so, yeah, ready for anybody.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT