KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2005
Carin Koch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Carin, you're 2-under right now, I think Rosie Jones just birdied 18, but 2-under, pretty pleased with the first round, first major?
CARIN KOCH:  I am.  You know, you never know when you're teeing off how you're going to feel.  I've been struggling a lot with my putting, and I actually putted quite good today so I'm proud about that.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Before we take questions.  Can you take us over your score card if you don't mind.
CARIN KOCH:  Bogey on 3, that was a long time ago, that was a 3-putt, from 25 feet to 3-putted.

Birdie on 5 with which was 6-iron to five feet.

Birdie on 6, that was an 8-iron to 10, 12 feet.

Bogeyed 7, 7-iron in the bunker and didn't get up-and-down.

Birdie on 8.  That was a 4-iron to probably about 15 feet.

9, I hit a sand wedge up there to 12 feet for birdie.

Birdie on 11, I was maybe 20 yards over the green and pitched up to five feet.

Birdie on 12.  Hit an 8-iron and that was probably about 12 feet.

Bogey on 15.  I hit a bad second shot, a 6-iron in the bunker didn't get up-and-down.

Bogey on 16.  I hit my driver left in the rough short and then 2-putted from probably ten feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  On a day like this when you roll in a lot of birdies and you have some bogeys, do you feel that it kind of got away from you a little bit or could you have gone a lot lower?
CARIN KOCH:  Yeah, I feel like I actually didn't play my best today.  A few too many bogeys, like it really could have been a low score today.
Q.  Not playing your best, you're still 2-under; you have to be happy about that?
CARIN KOCH:  Yeah, I am.  Early in the season I've been playing some really good golf, some of the best golf I've ever played, but I haven't been able to make the putts.  Today it was kind of the opposite.  And it's a lot more fun to play that way.  It's very frustrating when you're playing well and you're not making the putts.  So now if it all comes together, it will be really good.
Q.  Is there any variation from what you've been doing?
CARIN KOCH:  I've been working on my putting a lot the last couple of days, and actually I just lost my ball in the sand a little bit yesterday, and I see the alignments are that way, I've been having trouble with my aims.  I've been aiming everything right and moving the ball back to through the sand, you can see the line, and I was aiming everything much better today.  And it also comes with starting it online more.
Q.  You had birdied four out of five there from 8 to 12 and really got going; what happened with the bogeys there?
CARIN KOCH:  Yeah, I kept hitting it good.  I had good birdie chances on the next couple of holes after all of those birdies, and then just hit a bad second shot on 15 and had kind of a bad lie in the bunker.  Still had a decent chance to make par and just a little careful with the putter, didn't hit it hard enough.

And it was kind of the same thing on the next hole, just a bad drive.  I don't know, maybe I just didn't focus enough.  I haven't quite thought it through yet.  But I had some good shots on those holes, too.
Q.  Are you surprised that 2-under has you up there on the leaderboard?
CARIN KOCH:  Yeah, because I feel that I didn't play my best, and there's a lot of people out there now, so I'm sure there will be some better scores.

You know, it's a tough golf course.  If you miss it, you're not going to be in a very good spot, so it's always hard to get up-and-down from around the greens around here.
Q.  You didn't seem to have any problems with greens, a couple of people have mentioned that maybe they were a little slower or maybe a little grainier than they have been in the past.  It's been a weird growing season around here; are you noticing any difference in that or any other course conditions?
CARIN KOCH:  Yeah, the greens are rolling good, but they are definitely slower than normal.  And I left some putts short coming in thinking it would be a downhill that would be kind of a quick putt and it wasn't.  I could tell the difference from the beginning of the day and they are going to be a lot slower in the afternoon.
Q.  And the rough seems not quite as bad as it's been at this tournament through the years, either.
CARIN KOCH:  I can agree with that.  I was in the rough a couple of times today and it wasn't too bad.  It wasn't like you just had to chip it out.  It's still kind of fast in the rough, you really want to be in the fairway, but I think it's been worse in the past, too.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT