WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2002
Carin Koch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







CONNIE WILSON: Great round, great finish.  Talk about the round a little bit.
CARIN KOCH: Yeah, I thought I played pretty steady overall.  Played better golf than I have the two previous days.  Had a lot of birdie chances that kind of hit the edges of the holes.  The only hole I am disappointed with is 17.  Obviously I was 60 yards from the green and pitched it up short and then 3-putted.  That's just not allowed in golf but the putt on 18 definitely made up for a little bit of that. 

Q.  What distance?
CARIN KOCH: Must have been 20 feet.  At least.  20, 25. 

CONNIE WILSON:  30 feet, you think?  Might have been 30 feet.
CARIN KOCH:  A long 30. 

Q.  Did you look at the scoreboard out there today?
CARIN KOCH: I did.   I was in pretty good position all day.  I played tournaments before when I didn't watch the scoreboard and it kind of hurt me once, so I am not afraid of seeing what everyone's else is doing.  I know I can't do anything about it but I like to know where I am at.  Not that it really matters on Saturday anyway. 

Q.  Which tournament was it that not looking at the leaderboard hurt you?
CARIN KOCH: It was in Toledo, I just didn't know that I was leading the tournament and I ended up making a double on the last hole and getting in a Playoff and I just think I would have played a little differently had I known that I was leading by 2.  But I was also not in the last group then, so you never know, you know, what the people behind you are going to do. 

Q.  So you will tomorrow?
CARIN KOCH: I will look tomorrow, yeah. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
CARIN KOCH: I will aim for the middle of the green on 18 every time (laughs). 

Q.  Your first time in the last group of a major championship.  How do you think youÃƒï¿½Ã‚ ¹ll feel?
CARIN KOCH: Hopefully I will feel great.  I think this is what I play for; This is what I practice for, to be in that last group on any occasion, but especially in a major in Europe, I mean, I can't think of any better position to be in. 

Q.  Why do you think there are so many unexpected names on the leaderboard?
CARIN KOCH: Because we're playing golf, I guess, and anything can happen.  It's a great golf course.  I think anyone can play really well here.  There are some names that I expected to be on the leaderboard and they are not.  I really don't know why. 

Q.  There are also a lot of young players up there.  What does that tell you?
CARIN KOCH: I don't know, but it makes me feel old.  (Laughs) I always thought I used to be young out here, but I just think it's -- there are so many young good players out there now, maybe they have the right  -- they hit it pretty far, all of them, and they are not afraid to make mistakes, and maybe that's the type of golf you have to play out here   - just go for it. 

Q.  Is staying patient one of your virtues?
CARIN KOCH: Definitely.  I get better and better at it.  I used to be very bad at staying patient.  About three and a half years ago I had to learn to be patient more, so but it's important on any golf course any day.  You just can't get ahead of yourself or, you just never know. 

Q.  Is it especially important with links golf?
CARIN KOCH: I think so because I think you can really get some bad kicks and some good kicks on links golf.  There is some luck involved in it, but might not be on every course we play in America all the time because I definitely think you can get some good kicks or bad kicks and, you know, if you hit a great shot and get a bad kick, yeah, you do have to be patient because nothing you can do about it.  If you are going to get upset about things that you can't control, it is just going to take energy.  So you just have to hit it and hope that it goes the way you want.  And this course, I think, it is more and more links golf everyday we play.  It was quite soft in the beginning of the week, and you know, by the back nine today it is getting really quite firm. 

Q.  kind of conditions would you like to see out there tomorrow?  What will suit your game?
CARIN KOCH: I think we had about every condition you could have today except rain, so it will be nice if it wasn't so mixed.  Hard to fill the bag with clubs.  I think the last few days have been perfect conditions.  I would like to see similar  -- just some wind but not, you know, not a storm, and it's nice if it doesn't get too cold.  But it doesn't have to be that calm.  This course is made to play in a little bit of wind. 

Q.  Of all the people on the leaderboard, would it be fair to say Karrie is your toughest competitor?
CARIN KOCH: Yeah, I would say so, Karrie is such a consistent player and she has been in majors and won majors before which a lot of us haven't, so that's definitely to an advantage for her. 

Q.  How will you approach tomorrow?
CARIN KOCH: I don't know if I want my body to shake of nervousness every putt I hit, but yeah, I think I just have to go out there and be aggressive.  Today I started out with the first couple of holes just a little tentative with my putting, and on the back nine too I left a couple of putts a little bit short, like the one on 17, and you know, that's just never going to win you tournaments; never going to make you any birdies.  I have to stay aggressive.  I am a good putter 4-, 5-footers, so there's no reason for me to leave it short.  I can always go past because I make most of the short putts.  I think that's the key for me tomorrow is make sure I stay aggressive and that's the only way I going to make putts and that's the only way you win a major or any golf tournament for that matter.  Otherwise I have to hit it five feet all the time.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT