WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2002
Carin Koch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  What was more difficult, the wind or the cold?
CARIN KOCH:  For me it wasn't too bad.  When I looked out the window this morning I thought it was going to be worse.  I walked up to breakfast, I thought it was absolutely freezing and that it may be might get worse and worse this afternoon.  It wasn't too bad today.  But it wasn't too bad today, the cold or the wind.  I had good warm clothes on and it wasn't too bad. 

Q.  Do you think you caught a break, getting the afternoon time today?
CARIN KOCH: It looked to me like it was a little windier when I went to breakfast about 9 or 10 but it is hard to say because you get a different perspective when you are watching or when you are playing.  But I am not sure whether it was windier this morning. 

Q.  What is the difference between this week and missing the cut last week?
CARIN KOCH: No, I would say putting.  I putted really badly for two days there and I putted really good for two days now.  Not making everything, but just everything is close and everything is a good speed.  And just making some important putts like the one on 18 and that's the main difference, I think. 

Q.  You used to have a temper on the course if I remember correctly?
CARIN KOCH: Yes. 


Q.  How did you get rid of that?
CARIN KOCH: I had a son.  I grew up.  I think everything, experience, I definitely changed when I had my son and golf wasn't the center in my life anymore.  It just kind of changes and I guess I learned that it's not worth it. 

Q.  What would winning this tournament mean to you?
CARIN KOCH: Everything.  It was huge, definitely.  I have only won once in the States and once in Europe and this is a major golf course, so.....

Q.  Why do you think you havenÃƒï¿½Ã‚ ¹t won more?
CARIN KOCH: I am trying to figure that out.  (Laughs) I think, first of all, I haven't been good enough.  I haven't been in contention enough and I think maybe sometimes I am not aggressive enough on Sunday's when I have been in a good position.  I just have gotten real defensive and not  -- to be in the position to win you also have to putt very well for a week and the times that I have been in that position and not won, you know, the putting has been what's failed me on the Sundays and usually it is because I am not aggressive enough, not making them.  I think that's why I did well under pressure at the Solheim Cup because it's easier to be aggressive in Match Play. 

Q.  Laura Davies picked you to play well or win this week.  Why is that?  What is it about this course or these conditions that suits your game?
CARIN KOCH: I don't know.  I guess I have done well before when it's been tough conditions, tough courses, good courses, but I am not from Scotland, not like I am a links player really.  (Laughs).

Q.  Where else have you played links golf before? 
CARIN KOCH: In my dreams.  (Laughs) I haven't had that much experience except for playing the British Open the last two years and some amateur tournaments.  I know I played an amateur tournament at Troon, St. Andrews, but that's a long, long time ago.  I really haven't had enough experience.  I am looking forward to one day to come back on vacation and go play all these courses and to do it for fun. 

Q.  When you were on the Swedish team, I was told by some of the girls that they had to write an essay on links golf.  Did you?
CARIN KOCH: I don't remember doing it.  (Laughter).

Q.  How much fun have you had with the playboy.com thing?
CARIN KOCH: I think, it's fun, it's been more attention than I was used to before.





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT