WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2002
Carin Koch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







LAURA NEAL:  We were just saying you were making Laura Davies look like a genius you were one of her pick when is we asked who thought would win.
CARIN KOCH:   That's funny.
LAURA NEAL:  Tell us what was going right for you out there.  You had a clean round and three birdies to finish.
CARIN KOCH:   Yeah, I played pretty solid.  I think I hit almost every fairway.  I hit a lot of greens.  Most importantly, made some putts today. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CARIN KOCH:   Yeah, it feels better after today, but that's why I said it was funny, because I played with Laura for two days and I shot 9-over last week.  Funny that she had me as a pick. 
 Really, even then, I didn't play all that awful.  I just scored really badly and I didn't make any putts, so maybe she saw that, two.  I just came off two weeks at home and golf was not high on my priority list for my two-week vacation. 
My original plan, I was going to take three weeks off and come here, and I'm really glad I had those days in Norway.  Made me realize I had to practice. 
I went back home, and the weather has been so gorgeous lately, but hard to go to the golf course.  In the evening I spent a few hours on my short game.  I got a new putter as soon as I got here on Monday.  I saw the Ping rep and I got a new putter and things seem to be working better.

Q.  How are the greens?
CARIN KOCH:   They are subtle.  They are rolling really nice.  They are just a little subtle, and I had a couple long ones that went in today, a few shorter ones that didn't go in, but they don't look like much.  They look pretty flat when you look at them and all of a sudden you have this big, big break, so you have to be on the right side of the hole. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CARIN KOCH:   Well, I think I did.  I might have missed  -- if I missed any, I forgot about them quickly. 

Q.  Do you have any family with you this week?
CARIN KOCH:   Yeah, my husband and my son, they always travel with me, but this week, he stayed home, the little one, so he's with my mom right now and with the other grandparents over the weekend. 
Normally he comes with and he goes to day care in the States.  In Europe, we usually bring him and bring one of the grandparents or friend or something to watch him. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CARIN KOCH:   It's nice for a couple of days.  He's not really a baby anymore, I guess, but he's a very active 3 1/2-year-old.  It's nice for a couple of evenings to be able to go out and have dinner and be social, but after a couple of days, I miss him like crazy. 
I'm trying not to be selfish.  My mom is really enjoying spending a week with him and he gets spoiled and has a great time. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CARIN KOCH:   Yeah, I would. That's a good question.  I could see how the Tour really wants us to come home.  For me, the way the selection goes wouldn't change the way my schedule is in Europe.  I'd like to come home as much as I can, anyways.  So I think that's what the Tour is trying to do is make sure that we come home and play as much as we can.  But I think if all of the players are in unison on this, then the Tour will have to listen or whoever decides  -- I'm not sure who decides. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CARIN KOCH:   Not really. 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
CARIN KOCH:   You know, I haven't really looked if I have a chance to get in the top seven.  I think I'm quite far down.  I'm not too worried about it.  Trying to play my game, and there's a few people I hope get in the top seven, and I think we'll have a really strong team whoever goes.  There's a lot of players playing well right now.
LAURA NEAL:  Can we do your scorecard real quick? 
CARIN KOCH:   No. 3, I hit it on in two.  I had a long putt for eagle; hit 5-wood. 
The next hole, I hit a 9-wood, I believe.  That was about a 20-footer, probably. 
7, I hit  -- I had like a little sand wedge in there, and again, that was probably like a 12-footer up the hill. 
14, I hit my second shot in the bunker was kind of right up against the lip, and I managed to get up pretty close and made about a 10-footer. 
On the par 3, I hit a 6-iron to about four feet. 
On 16, I made a really long putt.  It was probably 25, 30 feet. 
Bogeys, 5, I was short of the green and I chipped it short and didn't make the putt.
The other one, again I was short of the green and didn't get up-and-down. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT