SOLHEIM CUP
September 18, 2015
Carin Koch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome back the European Solheim Cup team captain, Carin Koch.  That was a big performance today by the Europeans in the afternoon fourball.  How do you feel about the way that your players played?   
CARIN KOCH: Oh, I feel great.  You know, they were all so confident and comfortable on the course.  I told them last night to just go out and enjoy the crowds and enjoy the fans and the stage they're on this week.  And I think they all did that.  It looked like they were having a lot of fun all day, really.  Yeah, I couldn't be more pleased with them.   
 Q.  Just wondering if there was any dialogue there with yourself when the players were pulled off the action on the 17th green?  
CARIN KOCH: I didn't think the Americans would want to go on and play.  So not too much.  Our players obviously would have played 18.  They were pretty much ready to go.  But it was getting dark and I understand the Americans would like to stop after watching that shot on 17.   
 Q.  There was a dialogue between you and the Americans?  
CARIN KOCH: No, no, no.  The Americans didn't want to play, so -- and one team can decide what they want to do.  So, no, there was no dialogue.  They didn't want to play.   
And the same thing on the other match, after 15.  Our girls decided they didn't want to go on, because they knew they weren't going to finish the match, anyway.  It's up to each team to decide.   
 Q.  That eagle on the 17th, and Lexi played fantastically well and your girls just coming back and coming back, they were both 10-under on the 17?  
CARIN KOCH: Amazing.   
 Q.  The best match in the Solheim Cup in your memory?  
CARIN KOCH: Yeah, must be one of them, for sure.  That was just a fantastic match.  They kept making birdies and eagles, I think, in the start as well.  So that's what we want.  That's the showcase we want for our sport.   
 Q.  Have you decided how you're going to pair up tomorrow?  
CARIN KOCH: I have not.  I know that my three vice-captains are working hard right now.  And there's been a lot of little papers going -- we've looked at it a lot.  We have so many combinations we can put together.  It's just finding the right ones.   
 Q.  Suzann said that she was rested this afternoon because of rotation, is that the right explanation or what was the reason for that?  
CARIN KOCH: Yeah, we have a plan that it's not just for today, it's for the whole weekend.  And just want our players to be really fresh and rested on Sunday.   
 Q.  She'll play two matches tomorrow, Suzann?  
CARIN KOCH: Yeah, probably.   
 Q.  Do you think this delay is any way in Europe's favor or the Americans?  Are you quite happy that both are being resumed tomorrow?  
CARIN KOCH: I'm happy.  It was too dark to keep playing.  And both my teams finished on a real high.  Yeah, it's good to go home and sleep on that for a night.   
 Q.  I just wondered if you could sum up Charley's performance today?  
CARIN KOCH: Awesome.  Excellent.  Fantastic.  Yeah, she's been great.   
 Q.  Again, sum up her influence on the rest of the team, as well?  
CARIN KOCH: Oh, you know, she's just a great person to have on the team, a lot of laughs around her.  She's just a lot of fun, but also one of the top players.  She's young and fresh.  It's great.  We had to watch her in the dirndl dress the other night, too, when she lost the bet.  She had no problem doing that, either.  Yeah, it wouldn't be the same without her on the team, really.   
MODERATOR: Thank you so much for coming in and good luck tomorrow.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT