OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 10, 2014
Carin Koch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Up to the last, you're in the lead.   What a great round to get this tournament underway?   
CARIN KOCH:   Thank you, it was fun.   I putted really well today and hit a lot of good iron shots.   So a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   You're the Solheim Cup captain, was it a case of going out and showing potential people on your team how to do it?   
CARIN KOCH:   I guess.   I haven't played an event since September, so it was probably more just trying to find the fairway and the green and remember how to do it.   It was very unexpected for me.   Like I said, I just made a lot of putts and hit a lot of iron shots close, and that makes all the difference.   
   
 Q.   I was going to say, is it unexpected.   How are you feeling yesterday when you were warming up and going around and looking at a few of the holes?   
CARIN KOCH:   I was feeling okay.   I love this golf course.   It's such a fun golf course to play.   I've played here every year the last few years and the greens are rolling so nicely.   I'm definitely rusty from not having played, and I've just been hitting balls basically in the cold in Sweden and short game I haven't been able to practice much at all and definitely not putting until the last couple of days when I've been here.   But that's golf.   You just never know what to expect.   That's why we love it, isn't it.   
It's been since '05 that I won on the LPGA, so it's been a long time, for sure.   
   
 Q.   But now you must be thinking, maybe this could be my week after all?  
CARIN KOCH:   Well, we'll see.   There's so many good players here, and so much talent that I'm just happy with today.   I didn't hit it that great off the tee so I have to work on that.   But if I can keep putting like I putted today, it will be a good week, I know that.  
   
 Q.   What have you been up to the last couple months since we saw you in September?   
CARIN KOCH:   What have I been up to.   I've been down to St. Leon‑Rot one more time.   I've been visiting a clothing company that's going to supply us with clothing for the Opening Ceremony and the gala dinner.   The clothing company is called Englehorn.   It's a big department store, very, very nice.   That was nice.   
I also had a visit to the course, which we finalised some of the changes and some of the run‑offs and how we're going to play the holes and things.   So that was really nice, and they have started some rebuilding on a couple holes since then.   So that was good.   
And I also did‑‑ well, I did a thing with Eurosport that's showing tonight actually.   So they came to my house for two days.   And also at the same time, I had a lot of meetings.   We went through a lot of things that we need to get done and things like that.   So that was two days.  
Yeah, just some planning, some e‑mails, and checking how the girls are playing.   I wrote‑‑ I had an e‑mail out to some of the girls that are playing here.   We were thinking about maybe doing something here for dinner, but there's so many things going on here anyway.   Just made sure some of the girls were coming to play.   
   
 Q.   Are you allowed to say who?  
CARIN KOCH:   No, not really.   
   
 Q.   What was the purpose of you coming here?   Was it really to mix and meet up with potential team members or is it for your own game and you want to compete and keep competitive?   
CARIN KOCH:   To get to the sun (laughter).   No, I haven't played that much this year, but I want to stay I still enjoy playing, which I do, every now and then.   Sitting in Sweden and you have an event that you can go to in Dubai in December, it's hard not to go.   
So I always come here.   But it's always a good place to come and see some of the players that are here that play over in the States most of the time.   Good combination but it was more for my game this time.  
   
 Q.   Looking ahead to next year, what are your plans?   What are you doing sort of January, February?   
CARIN KOCH:   I have a few things, I'm just starting to putt my schedule together.   I have a couple of things in January I'm going to but they are not 100 percent finalised yet.   
   
 Q.   So you have not put your playing schedule together yet?   
CARIN KOCH:   No, I haven't.   I need to, though.   Otherwise I think I'm not going to play any tournaments.   I have to kind of prioritise that, as well.   There's a lot going on.   There will be some requests for sponsors to have me come and speak and there's something in Brussels that I might go to.   But not too much set yet.   I'll go to probably Nabisco, which is not called Nabisco anymore, it's the ANA, the major in Palm Springs on the LPGA; and then I think that's about it, the British Open, just to see the players.  
   
 Q.   Are all the majors important to you?   Are you going to be going and studying them, or is it just those two that you'll really focus on?   
CARIN KOCH:   Probably because they are good tournaments to go to.   Also now I see some players here, but some I haven't seen since the British Open.   So I want to make sure I see them in the beginning of the year, so Nabisco is a good place, Phoenix or Nabisco, I haven't decided just, just to start talking to the girls and seeing them and getting a good atmosphere going.   British Open is natural and easy to go and it's quite close to the event.  
   
 Q.   What do you think of the way the team is shaping up at the moment?  
CARIN KOCH:   It's probably looking about the way I thought it would look, and just excited that so many girls are playing well.   There are so many girls that have a chance to get on the team that my list right now, it's still quite long, which is nice, such a choice.   Just nice to see so many girls playing well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT