KAPALUA LPGA CLASSIC
October 18, 2008
Carin Koch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Can we go through your card really quick?   
 CARIN KOCH: I hit 9-iron to ten feet on 2.   
 7, I hit 9-iron as well to a foot.  
 Then I missed my shot and ended up in the bunker and in the rough and had to get up-and-down for bogey and actually made a good putt.   
 15, I hit it a little bit right of the green for my second shot and got up-and-down from 12 feet.   
 16, I hit 6-iron to six feet.   
 18, I was just short and left and chipped up to probably eight feet.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Right now you're tied for the lead at 5-under with a few others. If you would, just talk about a great day out there.   
 CARIN KOCH: Yeah, today most things went my way. I had some good putts I made and just hit it solid all day. Hit my driver well and just kind of kept it going.   
  
  Q. With so many people close to the lead, how much fun is tomorrow going to be?   
 CARIN KOCH: It's going to be really fun. For me, I haven't been in this situation for a long time, so I'll try not to concentrate on anything but me and do what I can do out there and whatever everyone else does, I can't do too much about.   
  
  Q. Are you normally a good wind player?   
 CARIN KOCH: Yeah, I think so. You know, I can refer to, I used to be when I was playing good, I used to be a very good wind player and the last few years, I've been struggling. But I've been struggling with everything, and when you're struggling, everything gets worse in the wind, of course. But I do like to play in wind. I always have.   
  
  Q. Generally speaking, do you think the first two rounds you play for making the cut and then let everything go to score?  
 CARIN KOCH: Not really. Every day you try to do what you can.   
 Yeah, you can make some choices. If it's Friday and you're close to making the cut, you know, you might not take a chance that you would on the weekend. But that can happen rarely. I play the same every day.   
  
  Q. You talked about it's been a while since you've been in this position a while since you've played well. How long has it been, and how good does it feel to be where you're at right now?  
 CARIN KOCH: It feels great. I had three weeks in the spring where I finished Top-10 three weeks that row, but I never really was in the lead or close to winning.   
 I don't know how long it's been since I've been in the lead, probably a few years, a couple of years, I won in 05, so that's 3 1/2 years ago.   
 You know, it feels good to know that your game is there. Whatever happens tomorrow, I know that I can be -- you know when you're struggling, you feel like the top players are so far ahead and it seems impossible, and you just get things going and you realize that the difference is just not that big; and you get a few putts to drop and you hit it a little better and all of a sudden you're in the hunt.   
 So it's really fun for me to know that. I've worked pretty hard to get back to it.   
  
  Q. How much of a distraction has it been for you moving back from Arizona back to Sweden? Has that been any problem at all?  
 CARIN KOCH: I think in the spring we had a lot going on. We were trying to sell our house in Phoenix and finishing building a house in Sweden and getting everything packed up and moved in containers.  
 So really all season, all winter, as soon as I was home I was going through stuff and trying to figure out what to bring and what not to bring, and there was a little anxiety. I have two kids and they have always lived in America and we were bringing them to Sweden, and they really had no friends and didn't know anyone. So for me as a mother, it was a lot of anxiety to make sure that they got into the system there and that they have got friends.   
 So I feel a lot more relaxed now because we are at home and it feels great to be home and kids are going okay. They have started school and they have met some friends. So I think I'm more relaxed now than I was at the beginning of the year for sure.   
  
  Q. I got an e-mail about your BugBand product, can you just tell me real quick about that?   
 CARIN KOCH: You know, it's just a company that does bug stuff, really good, the really good bug spray.   
  
  Q. Is it a green product?   
 CARIN KOCH: Yeah, it's a very good product for everyone, and they are very enthusiastic and like to get out there and see how they can best get their brand forward and they think that golf is one of the areas where they can improve. They have these little tablets, they are really good, you can use one and throw it out.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Carin, thanks so much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT