U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
July 14, 2018
Rosie Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just talk about the overall atmosphere of the week and what the experience has been like for you.  
ROSIE JONES: It's really crazy fun.  It's just really great to be around all of these players that we've played with all these years ago, and to get back on the golf course and compete with them and just enjoy their personalities and the flavor of our style of era on the LPGA, and then all the amateurs that we've heard about and reading about, to be able to tee it up with them has been really cool.   
 Q.  And how much have you been playing or competing?  
ROSIE JONES: You know, I've been playing a lot on The Legends Tour the last 12 years, and the last couple years have been the last tournaments, so I've really started playing a little bit more at home, and I haven't been doing, like some of the girls, playing in some of the teaching events and gaining some competition there or going back to play some LPGA events.  I just really don't have any interest with that because now I'm almost 60 and I'm not getting longer, I'm getting shorter.   
But what I'm doing is really fun.  I've really gotten into some of my hobbies and stuff like that at home, which has been great.  I've got a group of guys I play with out at Moss Creek, where I live, so it's been good.   
 Q.  Speaking of length, how many fairway woods have you hit into greens on this course?  
ROSIE JONES: You know what, not so much until today just because the golf course is really soft right now.  I was hoping when I woke up and looked out the window at 5:00 this morning, I was like, no, not rain, not before we play.  But that's the way everybody is going to play it.  It's playing a lot easier for the longer hitters just because they're going to have shorter irons and they can take it right at the pin.   
Today I had a few more.  I had probably about three or four, but normally I've been hitting the ball really good here this week.  I've hit it into some bunkers at 250 out there, and that's been staying out there right with some of my other fellow players, so I feel pretty good about it.  I've been working out and trying to get a little more strength, and this is the type of golf course that suits me when it's dry.   
 Q.  Good for your ball flight, too?  
ROSIE JONES: Yep.   
 Q.  Do you have any clubs in the bag that were from your playing days?  
ROSIE JONES: Yeah, but they -- I happen to put one back in there because I love it so much, and when I came through registration they had someone checking -- there if you wanted to check, and my original Rescue 25-degree was non-conforming, so I had to take it out and run to the PGA Superstore.  Actually the Callaway rep from the area helped me out, and with the PGA Superstore there in Grove something right around the area, they helped me out, and I got a new club, and I love it.  Love it, love it.   
 Q.  So your old one was a Callaway, too?  
ROSIE JONES: No, the old one was a Rescue, a TaylorMade, and now all my clubs are Callaway except for my putter is an Odyssey.   
 Q.  How far do you hit that one?  
ROSIE JONES: It's my 150, 155 club.   
 Q.  And so in terms of how you played, did you have a goal for the week?  
ROSIE JONES: Yeah, I came to win, you know.  If I'm going to go and do all the work and prepare coming in, then I want to win, and I knew it was going to be a long shot.  There's a lot of good players out here that play week in and week out on the European Tour or on the LPGA or wherever they can.  You know, I just tried to amp my game up a little bit the last six months and push myself into some non-comfort zones and tried to get ready.   
You know, so whatever preparation I was doing, hopefully it's going to bring me through all the way to the end.  It's going to be hard to catch Laura at this point, but I'd like to catch a few more people on the board.   
 Q.  What's your best Laura Davies story from the Tour days?  
ROSIE JONES: Oh, boy, there's so many of them.  Just to watch her launch it with a driver on a par-5 off the fairway and just take it over like these humongous trees, Mission Hills at -- it's the ANA now, but the Dinah Shore then, just to watch her coming out of her shoes and hitting the ball so precise, and then the short game that she has is really -- I mean, if you've ever been to her house, you know why she has a short game like that, because she built this green and you play all these different shots around it, around her house on to that green.  It's really, really cool.   
 Q.  Where is the green, like in her backyard?  
ROSIE JONES: Yeah, it's kind of like in her property, and she has all these little tee boxes, and sometimes there's a big ol' tree in the way, so you have to kind of figure out -- and sometimes the house is in the way.  I think she still lives there, I don't know.  But she's pretty amazing, and I'm really hoping that she wins this tournament because I think she really deserves it, and she deserves to be in the Hall of Fame, and I think this is the final point, isn't it?   
 Q.  I don't think the LPGA is going to count it.  
ROSIE JONES: You're kidding me.   
 Q.  It's not one of their majors.  
ROSIE JONES: It's one of ours.   
 Q.  But it's going to create -- it's going to start a good conversation.  Should it be counted?  
ROSIE JONES: Absolutely.  Just the same way with the LPGA Championship should be a major.  If the LPGA is not recognizing either one of these, then I'm thinking shame on you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT