KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 27, 2005
Rosie Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL LAMP:  Rosie Jones, second place finish, good round today.  Let's go over your score card first.
ROSIE JONES:  Okay.  I kind of had a shaky start.  I saved a par on No. 3 but bogeyed on No. 4.  Finally hit a green on No. 4 and 3-putt.  So, here I was kind of saving myself all the way around and feeling comfortable now that I've hit the green and just had a 3-putt.

But I brought it right back with a birdie on No. 5 and hit a 6-iron about ten feet and made the putt for birdie.

6, 7,  8, made pars, and No. 9, I hit -- got into a little trouble on my second shot and hit like a half 7-iron up on to the green from the rough over there and knocked down about a 35-footer for birdie.

Then on No. 10, I hit my little five-hit club, which is like a strong 5-iron, to about seven feet and made that for birdie.

Pretty much played solid all the way around from there.  3-putt No. 15.  Hit it way on the left side of the green and had a big, sloping putt.  You know, of course by this time I know I'm playing for second place and may have gotten a little lax there when Cristie was kind of having her troubles on that hole.  But I took a 3-putt there and played solid coming in on 16, 17, 18.
Q.  Would it have made a difference if that putt had gone in on 11?
ROSIE JONES:  I know, I had that really close putt for a birdie there.  I think it might have putt a little pressure on her, because Annika was showing a little bit -- some cracks here and there.  She was saving it a little bit, not exactly striping it down the middle, but every time she showed a little bit of crack there, she finished it up with a great putt to save par.

You know, she didn't show any nerves at all.  You know, it would have been nice to come within, you know, three or four shots of her and put a little more pressure on her, but, no, that didn't happen.  I think that putt on 11 really made a big difference for me I think.
Q.  So you were not necessarily thinking at the start of the round you had to go birdie-birdie-birdie?
ROSIE JONES:  Well, I was.  I had to get off to a really good start.  Probably was a little bit nervous about that.  I probably was a little bit too -- too aggressive on 1, knocked it into the bunker.  Shouldn't really is have been going for that pin on 1, I was in the sand and pitched it out, you know, four feet and made the putt for par.  But, you know, I wanted to come out and play aggressive and make four birdies on the front side but just wasn't happening.
Q.  What were you thinking when she birdies three of the first five holes, and your whole idea of catching up was gone pretty quick?
ROSIE JONES:  Yeah, that's hard as well.  That's not easy, but, you know, you kind of expect that from her.  That's why I wanted to stay with her and shoot -- make a few birdies and kind of stay with her.  But my driver just wasn't on right at the beginning of the round and I had to kind of just play conservative a little bit and make sure I didn't shoot myself in the foot.

You know, with a big lead like that, you can try to be a little aggressive but you can't shoot yourself out.  You know, you just can't do that.
Q.  Golf is a fickle game, we all know things can change quickly but how good is her performance right now?
ROSIE JONES:  She's playing really good.  She's playing really solid.  I played with Annika several times last year -- not several times last year, but the last time I played with her was about this time last year.  Her ball-striking is really good right now.  She's very, very solid.  Especially her irons, very good.
Q.  Did you change your mind about retiring, in the interview you just finished you said it's not going to be at the end of the year --
ROSIE JONES:  About the what?
Q.  About you retiring.
ROSIE JONES:  Oh, no, I'm not changing my mind about that.  You know, this morning I was thinking, well, if I can play the Dinah Shore next year that, would be a lot of fun, but the work that you have to do before you get here is not.  (Laughing).

It's a lot of preparation.  When you want to take the rest of your life off, it's hard to get yourself up for just one week of golf.  You know, if I'm going to do that and want to be competitive, then you have to do a lot of -- you've got to be playing some golf and getting yourself ready and grinding over some 3-footers and 5-footers and 12-footers.  With the girls out here, you can't play at home and with the country club guys and come out here and think you can be competitive.  There's a lot of work behind the scenes getting ready to play tournament golf.  It's not just that you start hitting balls and you go and you're ready.  There's a lot of conditioning, a lot of work with being competitive and grinding and being -- your discipline, your concentration, your motivation, just being able to maintain your endurance for your mind to be able to take four days of tournament golf and be competitive, and that's what I want to be; if I play at all, I want to be competitive.
JOEL LAMP:  Thanks a lot, Rosie.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT