KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2005
Rosie Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL LAMP: Rosie Jones, 5-under par for the tournament.  Let's start off with your score card, birdie at the second.
ROSIE JONES:  Yeah, I knocked out my sand wedge about five feet there and made the putt for birdie.  I had a 3-putt bogey on No. 5 five, kind of in-between clubs there, kind of a scary wind and got to the back of the green and just misinterpreted the speed of the green right there coming through the front and 3-putt.

Made a birdie on 7.  I hit really kind of a bad drive, I haven't been driving it very well on the front side, and I got a little bit better on the back side but the front side has been a little bit tough for me.  And I had a 7-wood, it was way right, hit 7-wood back there about six feet and made that for birdie.

Hit great shots on 8 but missed.  Made pars all the way around to 11.  Hit my sand wedge up there about four feet and made that for birdie.

And kind of ham-and-egged it all the way around.  Great up-and-down on 13.

Then I got up to 15, hit it into that bunker -- well my feet were in the bunker but my ball was in the heavy rough.  Hit a good shot up to the front of the green and pitched it up there about three feet and missed it.  So that was my bogey on the back nine.  Then hit a great shot on 17.  Had about a 15-, 17-footer for a birdie and missed it.

Then 18, I had a knock-down 8-iron into that pin there and about seven feet above the hole and made the putt for birdie.
Q.  Didn't seem to get the best of the wind today.
ROSIE JONES:  Well, the wind was pretty tough on the last six holes, and it was really windy early this morning.  I know most of the players had a lot of wind but it stopped.  You know, it stopped pretty early on their front nine, so they had pretty good -- I think we kind of flip flopped.  They had it on the front and we had it on the back, and you know, so I think it was pretty fair wind today.  You know it's not like one was a terrible wind part of the day and beautiful the other.
Q.  You've been around quite a while, but is it intimidating to other players the way Annika has been playing, to see her at the top of the leaderboard two rounds into the tournament?
ROSIE JONES:  Yeah, I guess so.  She's a great player.  She's been playing great.  She's had a great career up to here.  She's come out playing super strong this year and you know, just reading some of the -- she's won like six of her last eight starts or something like that I was reading last week.   That's just phenomenal.

She's got a great streak going.  She's tough and mentally tough.  She's definitely the person to beat right and you know it.  You know just playing with her is going to be tough.
Q.  That being said, you do get to play with her in the last group tomorrow at least.  That's got to be exactly the position you want to be.
ROSIE JONES:  Sure.  I always want to be in the last group.  I think it's -- I knew going in, just going up to that putt that was going to be the determining factor whether I played in the last group or not.  If Mi Hyun Kim would have shot 69, I would have shot 61 been at 4-under -- honestly, when you look at that, you always want to make the putt, but honestly it might be easier to play in the second group and play against Annika and the rest of the field in the second group.

I kind of gave myself a little pep talk and said, you know what, that's not what I'm here about.  I'm here to play, I'm here to win.  I want to play with Annika.  I'm not going to be able to play with her as far as ball-striking goes, but I'm up there with her at this point and I have as good of a chance as she does.
Q.  She's won four in a row and trying to find the record of five, how significant would that be in the context of golf history and how satisfying if you were able to stop that and prevent that from happening?
ROSIE JONES:  I would love to be the person to block that, but it's a great goal to have for her.  It's a great record.  I'm sure she's going to be very determined to beat that.  You know, I wish her luck, but we still have two more days to play and she's going to have to beat us and that's really -- I don't know what else to say about that.
Q.  You've always said that you'd be -- winning a major wouldn't necessarily change where you are opinion of your career, you've had a great career and you'd be happy with it with or without but at this point in your career --
ROSIE JONES:  I'm desperate.  (Laughter.)
Q.  Talking about the last full year out here and everything, does that put more pressure in a way?
ROSIE JONES:  Sure, there's a lot of pressure for me.  I've fared well in a lot of majors, especially this one.  I've done really well here.  Sure, you know, I want to win a major as bad as Annika wants to win a fifth in a row.  I have just as much riding.  She's probably going to have a lot more chances to go five I can't row than I have of winning a major.  I'm going to do my best to get my first.
Q.  With so much emphasis on the young players, most of whom who are still amateurs and you being more mature, does that have any impact at all on the older players who have been on Tour a long time?  Does the media more or less put any more pressure on you?
ROSIE JONES:  Well, there's not really a whole lot of pressure to play well, it's sometimes -- I think we get a little disappointed that there's so much attention on them when they are not when they haven't won or they are not winning but there is a lot of attention that is deserved by the younger players.

You know, I don't feel that there's a huge conflict there or jealousy with the younger players and the older players.  The older players when they are playing well, they get their due respect and the younger players, they certainly are getting a lot of attention, and you know, I don't disagree with it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT