CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2004
Rosie Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ROSIE JONES:   I last hole, I hit 3 wood up there and put myself in perfect position, 70 yards from the green , from the hole.  It was right in between my 60 degree wedge and my regular sand wedge.  And really, I had a lot of adrenaline going at the time, so I should have probably hit the fat babe, is what I call it, my 60 degree.  So I took a little bit off the wedge, pulled it a little bit and it was just, you know, a little spin and that was it.  I don't know if you all saw it, but just missed it by about two inches.  It was a really good attempt and very pleased with the way I played today.
Q.  You were saying earlier you had a great week overall?
ROSIE JONES:   Yeah, I doubled 3 yesterday, because I started off my round yesterday pretty poorly.  I was 3 over after four holes and brought it back to 2 under.

So today, no mistakes, no bogeys, just really pleased I came out with a good Sunday.  I lagged on my Sunday rounds earlier this year, just happy to give myself a chance at it.   It was fun.
Q.  Any disappointment, did you have any birdie opportunities, I know the two birdies on the back nine are 13 and 14, was there any disappointment coming this close with a chance to win?
ROSIE JONES:   On 13, I hit my wedge about 17, 16 feet past the pin.  I thought I should hit that a little bit closer.  I had a good putt at it and missed it.

14, I was kind of in between club there again and hit my shot a little bit to the left and gave myself a really tough putt for birdie, but made a good 2 putt there.  It wasn't     you know, it was kind of a lagging opportunity.  It wasn't really something I could go after.  And then on 17, I hit a really good shot up there about 14 feet up there and just missed that putt.

And then 17, I hit driver, 3 wood and it was playing really long for me.  I had about a 30 footer, I knew the putt, I knew it was going to be slow.  I had the same putt two days ago and left it in the jaws short about ten inches.

I played really solid golf.  I had those two saves on 15 and 12, and I just really putt well this whole week.  That was good, because I really haven't felt like I putted well this whole year yet.
Q.  How much tougher was the course playing today?  It seemed like you were hitting a lot longer clubs?
ROSIE JONES:   We weren't getting a lot of roll today, bus the wind was really gusty.  It was coming at you and then turning around and going with you at some point.  What you flew it is what you got.  There wasn't a whole lot of roll.  There wasn't a lot of casual water.  A lot of times, you didn't even take casual water relief because it was going to take it behind you or on a downslope or something like that.  It was just because you could move it.  It was more advantageous to leave it right there.
Q.  Do you think the weather had any effect on your concentration?  Did it cause you to concentrate anymore because the conditions were a little bit rougher than early in the week, or did it not affect you at all?
ROSIE JONES:   It always has some effect to you.  I woke up this morning thinking that we were going to have delays, and I live 40 miles in town and I was thinking I didn't want to drive that early.  I didn't want to get out here and wait for two hours and stuff.  So I kept calling, thinking, we're in the going to be playing, it's raining.  It's been raining at my house; the course is going to be under.

But, sure enough, they said, no, we're going, we're going on time.  So I drove out here, and as soon as I walked out of the fitness van getting ready to go put my cleats on to go over and hit balls, it really started blowing, which is, you know, it was getting really gusty.  I knew it was going to be a tough day.  I didn't really expect to shoot 4  or 5 under, given the conditions that we had and the golf course playing as long as it was.  And I just felt like, you know, I'm going to go out there, this might be advantageous for me, because I knew it would be a pretty    I'm usually a pretty good wind player.

But with the golf course playing as long as it was, wet and wind usually isn't my forte.  I'm just pleased with, what I did come out of it with.  Usually those dry, hot days is usually when I'm going to play a little bit better.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT