KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2004
Rosie Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Great playing out there.  Good way to end with a birdie on the last hole.
ROSIE JONES:  Yeah, 18 was playing a little bit tough today.  The wind just came up in the last half hour, 45 minutes.  That pin is just a nasty little pin because with that wind right in your face, anything that hits about pin-high or a little bit short is probably going to spin back, except for mine.  I had 7-iron coming in just because the wind was so hard.  I was a little bit out of the rough.  Had a little bit of overspin on it.

THE MODERATOR:  Real steady round today.
ROSIE JONES:  Yeah, no bogeys.  I had two really good big saving putts, one on 7, about a 15-footer for par, and then another one back out on 15, probably about a 20-footer straight downhill to save par.  Couple five-footers coming around saving for pars, too.  But five birdies and no bogeys, so that's pretty good.

THE MODERATOR:  Was it the putting that was the key for you today?
ROSIE JONES:  Yeah.  I just got off to a good start, birdie-ing 2 and 3.  Knocked it in pretty close on 9, about a 3-footer there.  Chipped it in on 13 from the left side of the green.  Like I said, I saved a couple putts coming around there.  Not a whole lot of putts on the Back 9.  13 putts on the Back 9.

Just a real good putting day.  Just solid.

THE MODERATOR:  Questions.
Q.  Rosie, given the attention that you received this week, how proud are you of yourself to have played as well as you did today?
ROSIE JONES:  Really good.  You know, because I think there was a lot of -- well, I don't know if there was a lot of expectation to see, you know, how I was going to play with all the attention, me coming out.  Of course, that's a little bit more stressful for me.  My sponsor is here watching.

It was exciting for me.  But once I teed off on the 1st hole, I felt really comfortable.  You know, I just got right into the groove.  My swing felt really good right from the get-go on the range.  You know, just right back into playing golf.
Q.  Did you notice any difference with the galleries?  Did you feel more support from them?
ROSIE JONES:  Well, I have a lot of friends out there.  My sponsors are out there today.  It was really kind of a quiet day.  Thursdays here are usually pretty quiet.  It's going to build up tomorrow.  So, you know, usually it's pretty much the same.  I don't think anybody had really big galleries, except Michelle Wie when I saw her go by.  You know, I mean, I really don't know.  I wasn't paying attention.
Q.  As a golf memory, is this up there with some of your other accomplishments?  Do you feel this was a special day to shoot this kind of score?
ROSIE JONES:  Yeah, this was kind of a big day for me.  Really, you know, just when you get back to it, I'm just getting back to golf.  Pretty good golfer.  You know, sure, you know, I was a little bit more nervous having all the attention on me this week, big announcement, all that stuff.

But, you know, I'm just a golf pro, that's my job.  When I show up in the morning, that's what I'm going to do, try to do the best I can.  So, you know, given that, I am very proud of that.  Happy to be in the position I'm at.
Q.  Now that the media didn't kill you and the fans didn't kill you, do you think, what the heck, why all this fuss, or why was it such a big problem?
ROSIE JONES:  I never felt like -- what was the question again?  I only got half of that.
Q.  Do you feel, what the heck, what difference does it make?  The media didn't kill you, the fans are still the same.  Much ado about nothing.
ROSIE JONES:  To me it's like what the heck, because I'm the same person.  I'm the same player you were watching here last year at this tournament, and last week.  I think people are going to, you know, figure that out after a couple more days or weeks, whatever it takes.

But it really -- the big thing is that, you know, I'm sponsored by a gay travel company, and that's never been done before.  I think it's really exciting for a lot of people and for the company and for myself because I'm just, you know, "feel free" is there motto, "feel free to do it."

You know, I feel very comfortable.  I think people will get more comfortable with it once they get used to the idea.
Q.  You've been out here a long, long time.  Has this tournament always been a comfort zone for you anyway?  You've always done well here.  You've had big galleries here, despite yesterday's announcement?
ROSIE JONES:  Right.  I think you're right.  You know, I've been here.  I've always played pretty well here.  I've got a great fan base everywhere I go, all around the country.  I think I've just been out here so long, they like me.

But you're right, it's not that different for me.  You know, I feel good about it.

THE MODERATOR:  Go over your birdies real quick.
ROSIE JONES:  Sure.  1st hole, 2-putt for par.

2nd hole, knocked it up there about three feet for birdie.

THE MODERATOR:  What club was that?
ROSIE JONES:  Just a little sand wedge, probably about 50 yards out.

No. 3, I hit 9-wood to about 20, 22 feet, made that for birdie.

Parred all the way around.  Made a big saving putt on 7.

Birdied No. 9 about a three-foot, four-foot putt.  Hit sand wedge in there, as well.

Pars on 10, 11 and 12.

13, hit a really bad drive.  Had a wood into the left side of the green.  Missed it to the left.  Chipped in for birdie there.

THE MODERATOR:  What did you hit in?
ROSIE JONES:  5-wood.  Very bad drive.

No. 14, 2-putt for par.

No. 15 is where I made the great saving par putt coming down the hill.

No. 16, 2-putt.

17, got up and down from the right side of the green.

No 18, I hit 7-iron to about five feet and made that for birdie.

THE MODERATOR:  Thanks, Rosie.
ROSIE JONES:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT