WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 2, 2002
Rosie Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR:  Let's go over your score card. 
ROSIE JONES:  I'd love to go shot by shot and hole by hole, but I don't remember the holes exactly.  It's only the second time I've been on the course.  I know I had seven birdies and one bogey.  You know, I just don't  -- I could try to go over it with you, but is it really that important? 
MODERATOR:  Let's try and do it at the end.  We'll try to get it before that. 
ROSIE JONES:  You know, we go through that thing, and then in the paper it goes, you know, she had six, seven birdies and one bogey, finished something. 
MODERATOR:  Was there any one hole you remember having a good birdie, feeling like, "I got it"? 
ROSIE JONES:  All my birdies were really good (laughter). 
MODERATOR:  Fair enough.  Was there one bogey then? 
ROSIE JONES:  The one bogey that I had was on No. 6, the par 3.  There's a front pin.  Really tough to get close.  Some of the longer ball-strikers are hitting a nice little 8-iron or 9-iron in there or something like that.  I was hitting a 6-iron.  It plays 148 or something like that.  A little wind at us. 
I caught a really hard kick into the back of the green.  Of course, in the afternoon, you know, it's starting to get really firm out there.  So I just had this big 45-foot putt that I had about a 12-foot break on it.  I left it above the hole about five feet and missed it coming down. 

Q.   How about the birdie to finish?
ROSIE JONES:  Birdie to finish, yeah, I remember that one (laughter). 
Most of the birdies I remember.  No.  9 I hit a pretty good drive.  I hit 3-wood, tried to get it in the front bunker.  I didn't hit a very good 3-wood, but it still got in the front bunker.  Came out about five feet, made the putt for birdie. 
I'm sorry, I don't know the course that well.  I didn't play ProAm yesterday because I was sick.  I took a sick day.  So I was only on it one time.  I only saw the course once before I got here today.  You know, they always say, "Watch out for the sick and weary." 

Q.   Mhairi said she was pretty fried after 18 holes. 
ROSIE JONES:  I think I was fried before the 18, before I started.  This cold has kind of knocked me out.  Kind of unexpected.  All of a sudden I got here this week and got really sick.  I was feeling really bad yesterday.  But I think I'm on the upswing now. 
You know, it was just hot.  You know, I had my umbrella out early in the day, you know, on the second, third, the Front  9.  Then it felt like it got cooler in the afternoon on the Back  9.  But it's still really hot in some of those sunny spots out there.  Not much refuge for the players as far as trees go and stuff like that. 

Q.   Your name has come up a lot when players talk about who has a chance to do well on this course.  Do you feel that way, that this is a good course for you?  Why do you think that is, that your name keeps popping up among other players?
ROSIE JONES:  I don't know.  I'm kind of surprised because usually a golf course with very tight fairways and small greens would be my type of golf course.  This is just the opposite, really wide fairways.   Now that it's firming up, you kind of have to know where your driver's going and be in control of it.  The second shots are really the most important, being able to know these greens well enough to be on the right side of the hole to make a putt. 
I don't know, I think maybe because I'm one of the better putters and these greens have a lot of undulation, that might be one of the reasons. 

Q.   Juli actually said this course is good for you because of the way you hit your irons, because the greens may be big, but in one way or another they're a little tight also. 
ROSIE JONES:  Right.

Q.   You have to put your irons in certain spots to get some good putts at the hole.  Do you think it plays into your game because of that?
ROSIE JONES:  Normally, yeah.  You know, the thing is that I haven't really been hitting my irons that well this year.  I just got a new set of irons this week.  I just put a new set of Big Bertha irons in, a new putter last week, the new putter. 
If Annika and Juli were winning tournaments with the Two-Ball, I said, "If I can't beat them, I'm going to join them."  I put one in my bag and started playing with it. 

Q.   Did you consider not playing, was it that bad?
ROSIE JONES:  No, not really.  The worst part was yesterday when it was really in my head.  I mean, I'm still congested now, but I was painfully sickly in my head.  Had I been out here yesterday in the ProAm, I probably would have had to pull out today, I think, just because you know what it's like to be in the heat when you have that really bad head thing going. 
You know, we have the opportunity once throughout the year to take an exemption from the ProAm.  I usually wait until I'm really, really sick.  I haven't had one for three years.  I really have to be sick to take one. 

Q.   You said you didn't really know this course well.  A couple other players have said the same thing.  Do you think play will be dramatically better the next two rounds?
ROSIE JONES:  Yeah, I think as the players get to know the course a little bit better, they know where they can go, where they can't go.  When I played on Tuesday, it was right after the rain on Monday afternoon.  On the very first hole I hit my drive 50 yards further than I did on Tuesday.  So right away I knew.  Really it's probably only 30.  You know, a lot further.  The wind direction might be changing, fairways firmed up like they're probably usually normally at this time of year, similar to what we normally play here in Columbus at this time of year. 
But, you know, being a new course, not knowing how much run you're going to get, what's over that little hill, how far left it's going to pull it, stuff like that, people are going to figure that out in the next two days, especially next year we'll all have it down pat.  Next two days I think the scores will be better. 

Q.   You said your first hole you hit it 30 or 50 yards farther.  What did you hit?  Driver, 3-wood?
ROSIE JONES:  Driver.  I hit driver everywhere.  I hit driver everywhere because I don't hit it hard enough to go anywhere.  I did hit a 290 drive this week, 285 today.  Pretty good.  I was catching my driver pretty good today.  In practice round, I was hitting a lot of 9-woods and 7-woods and stuff into these greens, the way these greens are designed sideways.  When I got up for the first hole, I thought that was pretty damn good.  Then when I realized these fairways were running so far, I thought instead of 9-wood into one hole, I'm hitting 8-wood today, the course is playing a lot easier, I was 3-under at the time, I thought, "Where is everybody else?" 
I didn't even look at the score board hardly at all.  I know Mhairi was at 5- or 6-under.  She was playing right in front of me.  I knew there were probably some good scores out there.  I just wasn't really paying attention to it.  Are there lots of 6s, 5s? 
MODERATOR:  You're the only 6, a few more 5s. 
Q.   The way you've been feeling, you haven't had a chance to do the homecoming thing at all as far as friends?
ROSIE JONES:  No.  I went to the store yesterday, got about four movies, some chicken soup.  That's where I've been.  Orange juice.  Been doing the sicky thing.  I did have friends over like Tuesday night or something, I don't know.  I pretty much pushed them out the door at about 8:00 and said, "I'm going to bed." 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
ROSIE JONES:  I'm actually in my RV this week. 

Q.   Mhairi is staying at New Albany with a family, so if somebody was sick, they'd be taking care of her. 
ROSIE JONES:  I'm on my own.  At least I'm in my RV, motorhome.  I could cook some food, just, you know, watch a lot of TV.

Q.   How much do you use that on tour?
ROSIE JONES:  I actually just bought it right after Corning this year.  This is about my fourth week in it.  I still have to leave it, because of our schedule, for flying out to the British Open.  I'll park it.  I'll pick it back up, go up to Montreal.  Then I'm taking it home. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
ROSIE JONES:  I'm not going to tell you where, though (laughter). 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT