NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 23, 2013
Derek St. John
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   To my left, 157 pounds, 2013 national champion, Derek St. John of Iowa.   6‑0 against Welch.   How was this a different match compared to others that you had against him, or was it, in fact, not different at all? 
DEREK ST. JOHN:   I mean, every match is different, but I guess this match meant the most probably to both of us.   There's more emphasis on this match, more exclamation points put on it.   But I don't think it really changes the fact we competed again.

Q.   Derek, do you have a point for a clasp, which is kind of strange in a championship match?   Was that a big turning point, or did you already feel like you were in a good position to win then? 
DEREK ST. JOHN:   Excuse me.   What did you say?   I mean, it doesn't change the match, I don't think so.   That's just the way I think.   I had to get away and get a takedown.   That doesn't happen, but either way, the plan was to get out and get a takedown to win the match.

Q.   Could you talk about staying calm during that third period when there's a flurry of points. 
DEREK ST. JOHN:   That's just part of the game.   You've got to stay cool as a cucumber.   When I went to my back there, good burst of energy on his part, and he caught me off guard a little bit. 
Just keep wrestling.   Don't bail just because you're getting in a little bit of trouble.   Don't stay there until you're in big trouble, you know what I mean.

Q.   What's more difficult, getting the takedown or holding on for that two minutes in the second period? 
DEREK ST. JOHN:   I mean, they're both tough, especially in a match like that.   Probably need to work a little harder, have a few more attempts to get a takedown.   Holding it down that last minute or so was tough too, but it's just part of wrestling.

Q.   Derek, last night you had talked about when you were struggling at the end of the regular season, how you had to regain the edge.   What did you do today that helped you gain the edge for tonight? 
THE MODERATOR:   Sticking to a routine is a big part of it for me.   Maybe not everybody has a routine, but for me it's having a routine.   I've had the same routine for quite a few years.   Going back to it and figuring out what's working for you and what's not.

Q.   Derek, you're a guy that never really seems to show much emotion.   Can you describe what you're feeling on the inside at this point? 
DEREK ST. JOHN:   I mean, it's unbelievable.   It's awesome.   It's what I'm working the last four years for, and I finally, finally got it.   It's unbelievable.   It's just unbelievable.

Q.   You were ranked No. 1 in the country for a lot of the season.   Can you talk about handling that pressure. 
DEREK ST. JOHN:   I mean, there's always pressure.   There's always going to be pressure, especially when you compete at a big, top‑level Division I program like Iowa, Oklahoma, Minnesota, Penn State, Ohio State, it doesn't really matter.   All of us has the same pressure. 
Basically, it's all the same.   It all compares the same. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right, Derek.   Congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT