NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2012
Derek St. John
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Derek. 

Q.   How much have you improved since the Big Tens and what happened there to change your whole season around?   A month ago at the national duels when you lost to Oregon State, did you ever imagine you'd be in the national finals?
DEREK ST. JOHN:   Big Tens, I mean, I don't know if anything's really changed.   Just staying on track more or less.   Did a lot of good things at Big Tens.   Just try to continue those things. 
For national duels, I mean, there's some underlying issues besides the knee that needed to be taken care of and were taken care of leading up to Big Tens, so... 

Q.   Can you elaborate on those at all?
DEREK ST. JOHN:   No.   I'm all right. 

Q.   Can you talk about how crucial those counters and reversals have been to your style so far in this tournament?
DEREK ST. JOHN:   I mean, with the knee situation, it's real vital.   I mean, it's vital to wrestling, period, but I guess more so for me, with the knee situation. 

Q.   As crucial as those scrambles have been throughout the tournament, how much of that is instinctual and how comfortable do you feel when you get in those positions?
DEREK ST. JOHN:   I mean, it's pretty much all instinct, I guess.   Wrestling, you don't ever want to stop moving, you'll be in trouble.   The more movement you can create, the better off for me personally I'm going to be with creating scrambles and whatnot. 

Q.   You had a really rough season.   What does it mean to you to get to the finals?
DEREK ST. JOHN:   I mean, with the situation at hand, it's pretty important.   I mean, it wasn't ever really a doubt in my mind that it wasn't possible.   But had a little bit of a setback with the knee.   Just kept marching forward. 

Q.   You've had success against Welch before in the past.   Have you gone against Dake before?
DEREK ST. JOHN:   No.

Q.   What do you do against a two‑time national champion?
DEREK ST. JOHN:   Get ready to wrestle like it's another match.   Bigger, more important match.   They're all important, but the level's raised.   Two‑time national champ, you got to be ready to go.

Q.   You talked about the instincts it takes to win those scrambles, what are the things that make you really good at those?
DEREK ST. JOHN:   Just the movement.   You got to keep moving.   You got to know where you are, keep your cool.   It's a feel thing, I think, more or less. 

Q.   Could you talk a little bit about the Hawkeye program. 
DEREK ST. JOHN:   It's preached to come here.   I mean, that's the goal.   That's the goal through the whole season.   Even beyond the coaching staff, the fans, there's a standard that they expect you to uphold.   They'll let you know if you're not either way. 
THE MODERATOR:   Derek, thank you so much. 
DEREK ST. JOHN:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT