PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
May 24, 2013
Heather Bowie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   All right.   We're here with Heather Bowie Young, the course record holder right now at the PureSilk Bahamas LPGA Championship.   You went 6‑under on the 12‑hole layout here at the ocean club.   Just take us through your round.   Some different holes, a new layout than what you practiced on earlier this week.   How did it go for you?   
HEATHER BOWIE YOUNG:   Well, it went pretty well.   I mean I would take 6‑under starting the day.   I had a nice stretch in the middle.   I made five birdies in a row, and two of them were par‑3s.   One of them was a hole that was shortened into a par‑3.   But of the 12 holes that we played I think I had seen seven and I had not seen five.   So maybe I should not play practice rounds anymore.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about trying to make the best of a challenging situation.   You know, we found out yesterday we were going to have to knock it down to a 12‑hole layout today.   We had a little delay there.   You had not much left to finish.   Got back out there and finished it off strong.   Just talk about the challenges.   
HEATHER BOWIE YOUNG:   Well, it's just Mother Nature, and as a golfer you grow up with this.   You know you just go when you can, and they're making the absolute best of the situation.   I'm really glad we're playing golf.   The holes we've played were in very good shape, like I didn't hardly have any mud on my ball, so they've gotten the course in tremendously good shape.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever posted a 39 before?  
HEATHER BOWIE YOUNG:   Not for 12 holes, no.   I can remember trying to shoot 39 for nine holes at one point, and that's happened this year.   I've shot well over that for nine holes.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about the state of your game, how you're feeling this year and in general.   
HEATHER BOWIE YOUNG:   This year hasn't been my best year, but I've seen some things come around the last three or four weeks, so that's been encouraging.   
Started to come around at the Dallas event.   So hopefully this is a trend upward.  
   
 Q.   Cool.   Thank you so much.   
HEATHER BOWIE YOUNG:   Sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT