WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2003
Heather Bowie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NEAL REID:  Why don't you talk about your round and what was working for you.

HEATHER BOWIE:   Yeah, I just kept it in play.  I hit a poor tee shot on 13 and was able to scramble for par.  I hit good tee shots, with the exception of that one, so it set me up for a good opportunity on each hole. 

NEAL REID:  Sounds like the premium is placement off the tee and course management this week.

HEATHER BOWIE:   It is.  I've hit two lay-up shots on par 5s with 9-irons just because you can't try to do too much.  You just have to keep it in the fairway and try to make some putts. 

NEAL REID:  How are you putting it? 

HEATHER BOWIE:   Quite well.  Better than I usually do.  Better than I usually do. 

NEAL REID:  What do you think you have to do on the weekend to hold on?

HEATHER BOWIE:   Keep playing like I am, I guess.  I'm trying to pick conservative targets and swing aggressively.  Trying to respect the golf course but not be afraid.  It's a fine line that you have to walk.  If I can continue to walk it, I should be okay. 


Q. You had a pretty good round at Turnberry on Friday last year.

HEATHER BOWIE:   I did.  Prior to today, I would say that was probably my best competitive round, and this one was just as good.  I don't know what it is about Friday here at the British, but the previous two years, I've played very poorly so I didn't have very high expectations last year or this year. 

So just trying to go out and play conservatively, but not too conservatively. 

NEAL REID:  You've had a pretty good season so far, three Top-10s and a tie for second.  Do you feel pretty confident coming into this week? 

HEATHER BOWIE:   Well, I'm happy with my year thus far.  I do feel at the beginning of each week that I have a chance.

And I went and saw my teacher two weeks ago, and practiced specifically for this event.  So I'm glad it's paid off to this point.

NEAL REID:  What did you do as far as that practice?

HEATHER BOWIE:   He's on Long Island at a links course.  It was right on the sound.  It's very windy there.  There's no sprinkler heads.  You just have to go out there and feel the shots.  That's what I did for three days prior to coming over here.  So, that was the difference this year from last. 


Q.  What's the name?

HEATHER BOWIE:   Friar's Head. 

NEAL REID:  What's the name of your coach? 

HEATHER BOWIE:   Michael hunt. 


Q.  Do you like links golf?

HEATHER BOWIE:   I do like links golf.  That's the biggest challenge to play, to see if we can handle the challenge.  It's difficult, but it's very fun.  And when you play a good round, it's very rewarding.


Q. When you were practicing, were you playing knock-down shots and half-shots?

HEATHER BOWIE:   I did.  I hit a lot of shots from 40 to 190 yards and I wouldn't let myself hit a sand wedge, because in America that's what we go to.  We hit a lot of sand wedges and fly to the hole.  I hit a lot of shots with a pitching wedge that I would usually hit with a sand wedge or a gap wedge.  I've hit my 52-degree wedge a lot this week, a lot more than usual. 


Q.  The wind was not quite blowing as much today as yesterday, was it?

HEATHER BOWIE:   No.  It's definitely perfect out there right now, and there's a lot of shots that are either into the wind or downwind.  Yesterday we had more crosswinds, which I find a little more difficult.  It's out there right now.  I know Lorena shot 65, I saw that coming in.  I won't be surprised if that there's a lot more out there. 


Q. Do you have any British relations?

HEATHER BOWIE:   I think I do.  I think I'm Scottish.  My father's side of the family is Scottish and my mother's is Sicilian.  Quite a mix. 


Q. Do you know where from in Scotland?

HEATHER BOWIE:   I don't.  I could probably find out because my grandmother has probably done a genealogy but I don't know.  I think Bowie was the American pronunciation, because I'm told that I say it incorrectly. 


Q.  Have you ever listened to David Bowie songs?

HEATHER BOWIE:   Sort of.  I live in Texas, so I listen to a lot of country music. 


Q. What's your favorite David Bowie song?

HEATHER BOWIE:   Clearly I'm not a big fan.  I don't know. 


Q.  Since you live in Texas, why were you playing at Friar's Head?

HEATHER BOWIE:   That's where my coach is in the summer, so I just went up there for the week. 


Q.  When was this?

HEATHER BOWIE:   The week before Evian.  Two weeks ago, I took the week off and went up there and spent it with him. 


Q.  It was windy?

HEATHER BOWIE:   It was very windy, and it rained.  I played in a turtleneck in a rain suit, so it was definitely good preparation. 


Q. It's quite windy in Texas too, isn't it?

HEATHER BOWIE:   It is, it's quite windy there, but I guess you don't have to be so precise.  So there's more room for error, or since there is say lot of wind.  Here, you can hit a shot down the fairway and it could end up in the bunker.  And there if it's in the bunker, it's pretty flat and you have a shot out; whereas, that's not the case here.


Q.  Were you in bunkers today?

HEATHER BOWIE:   Twice.  13 off the tee, and I just wedged out and got up-and-down from I think 88 yards.

And then I was in the bunker on 17, which really I thought was my best tee ball of the day and I ended up in the bunker on the left.  It was right in the middle of the bunker.  It didn't have a face, so I was able to hit a 6-iron.


Q.  What about yesterday?

HEATHER BOWIE:  Yes, quite a few.  I know I was in one off the tee on 14.  I've been in more green-side.  And I was in one on 17 yesterday, as well and had to just punch out of that one. 


Q.  Are you laying up on the par  5s?

HEATHER BOWIE:   It all just depends what the golf course gives me.  Today I almost laid up on  6, and I ended up  -- I was just like, you know what it's downwind, I'm just going to take my chances and it worked out.

But I'm not going to force anything.  If I have to lay up with a 9-iron on the weekend, I will.  Pars and bogeys won't hurt you.  You just have to stay away from the others. 


Q. Is that respect for the course?

HEATHER BOWIE:   That's respect for the course, yeah. 


Q. You got a taste for this event last year, didn't you?

HEATHER BOWIE:   Yes, I played great on Friday, but then didn't play too well on the weekend.  I don't remember what I did.  I just know I played early on Saturday and Sunday.  This is by far the best position I've ever been in. 

NEAL REID:  Let's go over your birdies. 

HEATHER BOWIE:   I birdied 1.  I hit a 3-iron, I was on the front of green, from about 30 feet and made it.

Birdied 4.  I hit a 7-iron to about 20 feet. 

6 was the par  5 where I got up-and-down.  I was on the back fringe in two.  Chipped to three feet. 

8, I hit a wedge to four feet.  Made birdie. 

10, I hit a wedge to about 10 feet. 

17, I hit the 6-iron out of the bunker to probably 35 feet, 3 0 feet.

NEAL REID:  What did you hit off the tee on 6? 

HEATHER BOWIE:   Driver, 5-wood. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT