BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 10, 2003
Heather Bowie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR:  Welcome, very nice round.  Good playing out there.  6 under 66.  And if you want to go ahead and talk about how your round felt first, and then we'll do your score card.
HEATHER BOWIE: It was very even.  I didn't get into too much trouble and kind of took advantage of my opportunities.  I had one long putt I made.  The others were mostly 15-footers I made after good shots.  It was very mellow.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
HEATHER BOWIE: I never think a golf course is easy.  You still have to execute the shots.  Two of the par 5s are very reachable today.  One was not reachable for anyone in my group.  You had to take advantage of those.  Some of the par 4s are tight-driving holes.  You have to manage the golf course, I think.

Q.  Obviously, Kelly Robbins had a good day.  Do you guys feed off each other?
HEATHER BOWIE: Absolutely.  For instance, like today, I never thought I was playing all that well.  I was just playing how Kelly was playing.  You definitely  -- I didn't ever start thinking about the fact I was 6 under.  She was right there the whole time.  You definitely do feed off each other.

Q.  Two questions.  One, how are the greens playing today?  Second, I think this is your second best  -- your best round, I think, is 65; is that right?
HEATHER BOWIE: Yes.

Q.  Can you talk about the greens first?
HEATHER BOWIE: I think the greens were very good.  I'm not sure what they're rolling on the 10th.  They're nice.  You can stroke the putts, and they'll roll out. 
66 is my second best score.  I made a lot of birdies today and was able to stay away from the bogeys.

Q.  Can you tell me where the 66 came from?  Did you feel that  -- have you been playing well, I guess, is the question?  Did this come out of the blue?
HEATHER BOWIE: I'm having one of my best shooters that I have had on tour.  I don't think it's out of the blue.  I played well last week.  It's a very tough golf course.  I think I'm kind of just been right on the cusp of it and maybe it's coming together now.

Q.  Just to follow up that, a round like this, does it change your approach for the rest of the weekend now?
HEATHER BOWIE: Not yet.  I mean, there is still too much golf yet.  Tomorrow I've got to play in the afternoon.  It will play a little more difficult.  I have to go out and play one round at a time.

Q.  What did you do hitting into those holes?
HEATHER BOWIE: I started on 10 and hit a 3-wood into the front, 3-wood into 18, and 5-wood into 3.  And then number 1, I can't read, so I hit the 2-wood.

Q.  Did you have any bogeys today?
HEATHER BOWIE: Yes, I had one on number 15, par 3.

Q.  Seven birdies and one bogey?
HEATHER BOWIE: Five birdies and an eagle, I think.

Q.  And the eagle was where?
HEATHER BOWIE: Number 3.

Q.  Heather, can you talk about how the players have been received here in Vancouver? 
Can you also talk about whether or not you think this city can support an LPGA event year-in and year-out.
HEATHER BOWIE: I would say definitely based on what I saw today.  This has been a great city for us.  Even when I looked around, there was a lot of people out, and there was a lot of support here for us. 
Based on that, I would say it could support it. 
(Score card done.)

Q.  Heather, is this the first time you have ever led in an LPGA event?
HEATHER BOWIE: No.  I know in Toledo, but she can tell you better.

Q.  (Inaudible)?
HEATHER BOWIE: I definitely felt it early on, and now, I try not to think about it.  I don't feel any different this week than I felt last week.  I don't know.  I definitely at the beginning of the year felt like it was going to be.  It hasn't yet, so maybe it's still in store.
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Thank you, Heather.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT