AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: BLUE JAYS VS ROYALS
October 23, 2015
John Gibbons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Royals - 4              Blue Jays - 3   
JOHN GIBBONS: First we just want to, on behalf of the Blue Jays, congratulate the Kansas City Royals on one heck of a year.  It's a great organization.  I have many friends and they do it right.  They'll represent the American League with the best of them.   
We wish them well and congratulate them.   
 Q.  This game had a couple of themes for you guys this season.  You didn't get the five runs and you ended up losing and you fought to the very end.  
JOHN GIBBONS: Yeah, no doubt.  I knew we would, as far as fighting to the end, because that's what we do.  That's who these guys are.  We were sitting in that position, we just couldn't get it done.  Wade Davis stepped up, like he's done the last few years.   
They did, they made a run at it.  And I couldn't be more proud of a group of guys.  They laid it out every day, great competitors.  It doesn't matter what the score, they show up to play every day.  And a fun bunch, fun group to be around every day.  And I tip my hat to them.   
 Q.  What do you say about the effort David gave you and the second home run, what was your view of fan interference?  
JOHN GIBBONS: I hope that quiets some things down for David, what he's been through this postseason.  Like I said before, he's having a great career, he's going to go on to have an even better career.  He stepped up tonight, he really did.  A couple solo home runs early, and he's really as good as we've seen him.  He kept us right there, gave us a shot.  Jose had a huge night, too.   
As far as the home run, they took it to New York, they did the right thing.  We appreciate that.  With that fencing was recessed a little bit and they thought it was going to be a home run, anyway.  They made the call on that.   
 Q.  This is an unfair question coming so soon after coming off the field, so please forgive me, but when you look back at the season, it's been such a remarkable roller coaster ride, what emotions do you think you have, pride in what you accomplished, disappointment that you were so close?  
JOHN GIBBONS: Well, I'm definitely proud of our team and the organization.  It's been a fun group to be around every day.  We were just kind of hanging around.  And then Alex stepped up and made some big trades and we took off.   
These last couple of months they flew by and we played such good baseball, better than you normally see for a stretch.  We're all disappointed we're not moving on.  That's baseball.  We put up our best fight today.  And they've got a great team over there, and they'll represent the American League really well.   
You know, anytime you lose something and you're trying to get to the top, it's disappointing, it sucks it out of you.  But there's too many good things that have happened and too many great players that you admire and enjoy battling with, really.  I won't forget that.   
 Q.  Unusual for you guys in Game 2 here, 3-for-16 with runners in scoring position, today was 0-for-12.  In a lot of ways that's the difference in the series right there.  Anything you saw coach-wise you didn't like or how do you explain it?  
JOHN GIBBONS: No.  You know what, every once in a while you've got to give credit to the other side.  They got to this round like us because they have great pitching.  When they turn over the bullpen, you saw what you saw tonight.   
And it's not always what you don't do, sometimes it's what the other guys are doing.  They held us in check.  We do score runs, that's how we win.  But they really held us in check a few of these games, and that make a huge difference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT