AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS VS BLUE JAYS
October 10, 2015
John Gibbons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR: Who wants to start with the first question?   
 Q.  It's obviously a tough loss with Cecil.  What does his loss mean for you guys and can you explain the decision to bring up Tepera?  
JOHN GIBBONS: Yeah, it's definitely a big loss, he's been, he's been so good for us, arguably the best reliever in baseball the last three months, been up there with the best of them.  Texas' lineup is so many left-handers, that's where he really was important to us, but that's the way it goes.  We move on.  As far as Tepera, one thing he did, he's a young kid, but he dominated left-handers for the most part.  Struggled a little bit late but the time he was up, that was his strength, getting lefties out, so roll the dice with him.  He's got a good arm so we'll see.  And he could give you a little length if he needed to.   
 Q.  John, two devastating losses in Toronto.  What's it going to take to turn this around from Toronto's perspective?  
JOHN GIBBONS: We'll, we've definitely got to win tomorrow.  I think we need a big outburst with the bats, score a lot of runs really.  If you look at our season anyway, you know, we score -- we score and win, we score in bunches.  That's kind of our trademark.  Their pitching's really shut us down the last two games so we need to do that to win and I think hopefully we can do it one time, you know, catch our breath a little bit and gain a little confidence, maybe we can hang in this thing.  But that's what it's going to take because really that's the identity of our club.   
 Q.  If you do pull it off and win tomorrow, have you given any thought to the possibility of starting David on short rest in Game 4?  
JOHN GIBBONS: Well, we've got to worry about tomorrow first but of course that's always a possibility.  We know we could do anything we wanted really.  But not too wise to get that far ahead.   
 Q.  John, how do you shuffle the bullpen with Brett out?  Does that mean Sanchez takes on a larger role?  Does that mean Loup maybe gets a different look and different opportunities?  
JOHN GIBBONS: Well, the key guy will be Loupy now.  Like I said, with so many left-handers, he's a lefty.  It doesn't always take a lefty on lefty but it's really the toughest matchup in baseball.  Loupy, he's been the go-to guys for us the last couple years.  This year was kind of an up and down year for him.  Didn't pitch a whole lot late in the season but, you know, they came in yesterday and got a couple key outs.  I thought the first one, I thought Hamilton might have hit one in the gap but we flagged it down.  And he got Odor, so he got his two big outs, in a tie game, which was huge.  Yeah, I mean, he's got to take on a bigger role, but those other guys, too.  We need them all to be good really.  But we've got to have a good outing out of Estrada, too, and he's fully capable of that.   
 Q.  John, there was some talk last night that the thing that set off the incident was a quick pitch from Kela.  What is your thought on the quick pitch?  And is that what you've heard from your guys in terms of what created some kind of incident?  
JOHN GIBBONS: To be honest, I haven't heard any rumblings in there about that.  I think everybody was kind of shocked at the time, I didn't know what was going on.  But there's a number of guys in baseball doing that now so it's -- you know, it's really not an illegal pitch.  It's worked to pitchers' advantage.  We've seen that out of other guys.  You know, so really can't complain about it.  You've got to expect it but it's a weapon for a pitcher. You can't do it when guys are on base, of course.   
MODERATOR: Thanks for coming in.   
JOHN GIBBONS: That's it?  Sort of painless.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT