AL DIVISION SERIES: RANGERS VS BLUE JAYS
October 8, 2015
John Gibbons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Rangers - 5 Blue Jays - 3
MODERATOR: Let's get started and take the first question for John.
Q. We heard a brief update on Bautista and Donaldson.  Can you tell us anything more?
JOHN GIBBONS: Well, Donaldson, he banged his head there, so he came out, precautionary -- they check for concussions and he apparently passed all the tests so that's good news.  We'll see how he is tomorrow.
Bautista, his leg cramped up on him, hamstring, so he couldn't go.  Yeah, that's it right there.
Q. On Donaldson, what was the rationale in sending him out for another half inning of play and then making the call to bring him out?  Did he have some concussion concerns?
JOHN GIBBONS: I think he got a little light-headed, something wasn't right, but he did pass the test, so that's a good sign.
Q. John, on the DeShields' single in the third, it looked like Goins had broke for the bag. Can you just take us through that?
JOHN GIBBONS: I think they were trying to back door pick there, something we've done quite a bit this year.  Then he broke and he hit it in the perfect spot.  Yeah, the timing was bad but that was what the play was.
Q. You look forward to tomorrow now with Stroman.  What kind of added pressure does he face with this being his first playoff start and now facing, you know, you need to have this game pretty much --
JOHN GIBBONS: Yeah, you know what, you always look forward to the days that Stro's pitching.  There's something about him, he always rises to the occasion so we feel really good.  We've got to work it out for us with Hamels, no doubt.  He dropped the first one at home, it's important we win at home.  We did very good here all year.  So yeah, tomorrow's a big game for us, but really the perfect guy going.
Q. David looked a little rusty maybe in the first, I'm not sure what you thought of how he responded to the long layoff, but he seemed to spun things a bit.  What did you think of his outing overall?
JOHN GIBBONS: I don't know if that had anything to do with the layoff.  The first inning they were probably a little bit revved up, too.  He didn't give up many hits.  The key ones were the two home runs, the two run by Chirinos and then Odor getting him later, that was really the difference in the game.  They had some key hits.  Really one of those games he wasn't getting hit around, it was just a couple key hits at some key times that made the difference.  I think he was maybe a little out of whack that first inning, then I thought he settled in pretty good.  You don't seem him very often hitting a guy.  He got Odor twice, that's unusual.  Just one of those games, not a lot of hits, they weren't hitting him around, just a couple key hits.
Q. Just curious if you talked to any of your players.  When Beltre got the single and the run scored, you guys might have had a play at first base.  I don't know if anybody realized that or if it was talked about?
JOHN GIBBONS: No, if we thought we had something, you know, yeah.
Q. Did the momentum swings carry over a little bit more in the Postseason than they would in the regular season just because the significance, especially in a shorter series like this one, best of five?
JOHN GIBBONS: We'll find out.  Every game's vital really.  You've got to win three out of five.  The thing we've got going for us is I think we've been resilient all year.  We've lost some tough games and we don't lose many in a row normally.  So it will be a good bounce back day for us.  Like I say we're facing their ace tomorrow, Hamels, that definitely won't be easy, but we like the matchup and we'll see.  One thing I know about it us is we always seem to respond.
MODERATOR: Thanks for coming in.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT