AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: BLUE JAYS VS INDIANS
October 17, 2016
John Gibbons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Cleveland - 4, Toronto - 2
Q. Does this feel a little like "Groundhog Day," the same kind of thing happening each game?
JOHN GIBBONS: No, it really doesn't.  Just good competition.
The bullpen, Tito did a masterful job running that bullpen today.  They shut us down.  I'm not going to get into who's did what, this or that.  But they did a great job going through a number of guys and did a good job shutting us down.
I had a good feeling at the end, it didn't happen, but we'll show up tomorrow.  It's definitely a daunting task, but it's been done before.
Q. Take us through your thought process when you went out with the Bauer situation?
JOHN GIBBONS: Oh, the other night we had a pre-series meeting, and they brought up the injury, MLB, and told both teams if it starts bleeding at all he's got to come out of the game, that kind of thing.  So regardless, you can't put anything on it to do all that.  And we kept getting calls that he was bleeding pretty good, and I think it was.
They stepped up, their bullpen.  They've got some different weapons over there, different style of pitching.  And they came through for them, that's for sure.
Q. You've seen Kluber, he's coming back tomorrow.  Even on short rest, what do you look for for a guy like him?  What are the challenges?
JOHN GIBBONS: He's good.  He won the Cy Young a couple years ago.  He was really good the other night.  He's one of the top pitchers in baseball for a good reason.
We got a good one going ourselves.  We need a good outing, keep the low score, anyway.  I still believe our offense is due to erupt.  It hasn't happened yet.  But I've seen it too many times.  Hopefully tomorrow is that day, we'll see.
Q. You mentioned you have a good one going tomorrow, as well.  Sanchez, young pitcher, one of the best in 2016, really.  How do you feel sending him out there with the season on the line?
JOHN GIBBONS: We've got our work cut out for us, that's an understatement, I would think.  He's turned himself into the one of the better ones in baseball.  And he's been solid all year.  And we've been getting great pitching the whole series.  We can't complain about that one bit.  And really expect him just to do the same.  He's that good.
So we'll see.  But really, any guys we throw out there we feel really good.  And especially with him, that's for sure.
Q. Obviously you're not swinging the bats out there.  But are you anticipating making any lineup changes to the offense to try to spark something?
JOHN GIBBONS: I may have already done that enough.  No, we'll run the boys out there tomorrow that got us to this point.  It's a pretty good group.  And they're due.  They're due.  We'll see.  We'll see if it's tomorrow.
Q. Do you say something to your team when they're down 0-3 or do they know the situation and you let them go out and play?
JOHN GIBBONS: I don't know what you'd tell them.  It's a veteran group.  There's been some good ballgames, they've just come through.  And they know what's at stake.  They worked hard to get to this point, anyway.  One thing we do, we're resilient, we show up and play.  Nobody shuts it down, that's for sure.  So they'll be out there tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT