CHICK-FIL-A PEACH BOWL: OLE MISS v TEXAS CHRISTIAN
December 29, 2014
Josh Doctson
Aaron Green
Joey Hunt
David Porter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We are in the second session here, Josh Doctson, Aaron Green, Joey Hunt and David Porter.   Josh, let's start with you and give us an opening statement and talk about your week so far with preparations for the bowl game.   
JOSH DOCTSON:   It's been fun, nice festivities, we have ridden the go‑carts, especially the MLK, that we went and shared with Ole Miss, that experience was a historical experience for us, it was neat and humbling to be in the house of where MLK and his family spoke at, so that was neat.   
THE MODERATOR:   Aaron?   
AARON GREEN:   I would have to say MLK as well.   I've been there once when I was younger, maybe 10 or 11, but now I'm at an age where I understand things more, it's humbling and definitely one of the top things I've done in my lifetime so that was awesome.   
THE MODERATOR:   Joey talk about the battle for bowl week competitions.   You guys dropped one yesterday, it was close.   I think it was the closest carting times that we have had in the history of this event but how much pressure going into the final event?   
JOEY HUNT:   I guess a lot of pressure on the family feud, football feud so hopefully those guys pull it out.   They've been studying and whatnot.   
THE MODERATOR:   You haven't been studying?   
JOEY HUNT:   I didn't make the cut.   We're praying for him!   
THE MODERATOR:   David, talk about what has been your best experience of the week so far?  
DAVID PORTER:   Probably going to the MLK site, sitting in the church that he was at and stuff.   Like I said, it was a great, unbelievable experience just to be where he was at one point.   It was just awesome.   
   
 Q.   Can y'all go into what makes this offense so effective?   Why do you enjoy playing in it?   
JOSH DOCTSON:   First off, Coach Sonny Cumbie and Doug Meacham came in and was able to give us a different offense and I think the players off‑season preparation in the spring for the game verse in season.   We really came together as receivers and linemen and the quarterbacks come and practice a lot on our off‑time, downtime to just kinda produce more chemistry and be more unified.   
AARON GREEN:   I believe Meacham and Cumbie came in and brought in the their swag and their offense and it was up to us to buy into it as a team, as a unit.   It was totally different than what we ran the year before.   Years before we played national championship caliber defense and we didn't have an offense so we knew if we had an offense that could contribute and put up points, that we would be a good team and as you saw this year, came one game short of playing in the playoffs but the offense has helped out tremendously and this is just our first year in it.   Looking forward to it in the years to come.   
JOEY HUNT:   When Meacham and Cumbie came in they brought that swagger we needed.   Our defense has had that swagger and I feel like those guys brought that in with the energy and our unit coming together as a family, trusting in one another, I felt like that has been the difference.   
DAVID PORTER:   They pretty much said it all but the main thing would be the time we spent outside of practice without the coaches, the time we spend by ourselves, even if it was not playing football, all hanging out, going out to eat, that chemistry off the field and I felt that's really played an important part with this.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
DAVID PORTER I would say maybe we're an older team, we have a lot of juniors and seniors, last couple of years we were pretty young and I feel we all matured and grown up and we all are on the same page.   
   
 Q.   Because it's the first year, are y'all surprised at how effective it's been?   It's rare for an offense when it changes 180 like that.   
JOEY HUNT:   I feel like we always had the talent and the ability to be as successful as we are and I feel like us coming together and everyone becoming part of "we" and not many guys are egos and us being a team and being successful as an entire offense.   I felt like we had the potential to be good because you would see some points last year when we would go against our defense that we could be good.   So I feel like we always knew we had that potential.   
   
 Q.   How much do you use this as a reward for a good season this trip versus a business trip, preparing for the win, Josh?   How do you walk that line in terms of getting ready for this game?   
JOSH DOCTSON:   It's different than all the other games this year, we have a week of festivities and hanging out and seeing other teams and it's a lot different.   Now that we're getting in the final days we are back at game plan‑‑ we've been in game plan but we're more on schedule like we were during in‑season games and I'm just ready to play, I know my teammates are, too, but it's been fun.   
AARON GREEN:   You try to have a balance between vacation and business.   Me personally I haven't been out at night, whether it was just to get something to eat but I haven't been anywhere else, remaining focused, remembering that we still have a game.   
Like Josh said, I'm ready to roll.   Heard a lot of scrutiny about the Big 12 and all this stuff, I'm ready.   
JOEY HUNT:   Like they talked about finding that balance.   This is a rewarding thing, you get the gifts and going out and doing fun things but I feel like we're here to win the game, that's why we're here, we're here to play football.   Football is what got us here so that's what I feel like we want to do.   
DAVID PORTER:   Same as them.   Of course we're here to play in the Chick‑fil‑A Peach Bowl and this is a business trip.   We're here to have fun, of course, but our main goal is to play in the game and win.   
   
 Q.   You guys come into SEC country to the play an SEC team.   You guys mentioned the notch against the Big 12.   How important do you take that into account that you are playing an SEC team in the heart of the SEC.   
JOEY HUNT:   You said SEC country?   I don't know, we brought the Big 12 country.   We just ready to play.   I mean, I'm lovin' that it's like an away game, I'm loving the atmosphere, the SEC atmosphere is bigger than the Big 12, it is what it is but I don't think anybody is scared up here, we just ready to play in the SEC country.  
   
 Q.   What about you Aaron, does coming to the middle of the SEC scare you at all?  
AARON GREEN....No.   Thanks for asking.  
   
 Q.   Joey, you?  
JOEY HUNT:   We're not scared.   We played LSU last year so we got a taste of it, playing against the SEC.   It wasn't SEC country, but it was an SEC team.   I don't think we're afraid of anybody.  
   
 Q.   What about you David?  
DAVID PORTER:   We're not afraid at all.   These are the games that we live for, playing against top‑ranked opponents and I think we're all just ready to play.   
   
 Q.   Guys, Coach Cumbie talked about how he installed the offense in the spring and you guys are still picking up nuances of it.   How much are you learning that you haven't even installed yet, are you doing new things even now as you prepare for this game?   
JOSH DOCTSON:   I think the receivers, running backs, everybody, we're learning our rolls through the season.   I'm not the speed guy I'm more of a jump ball guy, Kolby and Graham are the speed guys, our different routes that we run and concepts and the defenses that we see, but, yeah.   
AARON GREEN:   What Josh said, everyone has a role and I think everybody has bought into that role as well.   Like I mean, it's so different from what we had before, the years before we had kind of had one star or someone everyone could key on but now we have weapons everywhere and this is just our first year in the offense.   The only way we can go is up.   It was a lot to learn for us, at first, it was a lot more complicated and a lot different than the offense of the years prior but like I said, we're returning 10 out of 11 starters next year and this is our first year in the offense so it should be fun to watch in years to come.   
JOEY HUNT:   I feel like I can completely understand every role.   As far as the line standpoint, it wasn't overly hard on us, it made it easier for us understanding concepts and stuff, what to do against every look you got.   That's what we learned.   
DAVID PORTER:   Pretty much like what A.J. said, learning our roles was the main thing that helped us out this season with knowing who is better at what and I mean, that's what's helped this offense.   
THE MODERATOR:   Guys, thank you very much.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT