ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
October 1, 2020
Craig Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









CRAIG LEE:   It was good.  Yeah, enjoyed it.  It was great fun.  That was surprising to get it as low as that, Round 2, with the length of the course.  But, no, nice steady start and kind of just kept snowballing from there, which was great.  So yeah.
Q. Beautiful playing conditions, weren't they, compared to this morning.
CRAIG LEE:   Absolutely.  Just doesn't get any better than this today.  The owner has been trying to make the course harder, and all of a sudden the scores are just as low.  So but I don't think it will last coming to the weekend.
Q. There's a beauty to playing links golf, isn't there?
CRAIG LEE:   There is, yeah.  I'm pretty fortunate, we've been given sort of privileges to come down here, so I've played quite a lot down here over the years, and it's a wonderful place to play golf.  It really is.  It's in fabulous condition.  So it's just a joy to play.
Q. So tell us your journey.  Where have you been, where have you been playing?
CRAIG LEE:   I've been in hibernation.  That's probably why you've not -- had a couple years off after I lost my card, and did a little bit of building, put an extension on the side of the house, I built a golf studio on the other side of the house.
And the last couple years I've just really been teaching, really is pretty much the only source of income has been teaching custom fitting.  So, I mean, it's great fun on the side of the house.  I've got all my toys in there, so it's perfect.
Q. Competitive golf, where have you been playing competitively?
CRAIG LEE:   I could count on two hands how many tournaments I played last year, to be honest.  I played in Scotland last year just in the PGA stuff, around the region.  Did okay, obviously got into the playoffs, and then did well in the playoffs, and that's what got me into here.
This year has obviously been a bit -- kind of such a strange year for everybody, so nothing at the beginning of the year, and then I've played a lot of Paul Lawrie's events this year as well.  And they've been perfect, training for them, because they've been on links courses.  So played some phenomenal courses, and it's been great training.
Q. You're obviously a very good golfer, professional golfer, is there any surprise?
CRAIG LEE:   About what?
Q. Today?
CRAIG LEE:   To be here or to --
Q. Today.
CRAIG LEE:   Yeah, there's always a surprise to get it on down, I'm not as long as I once was, and the courses are getting longer and the boys are hitting it farther, and I'm going the wrong way.  So there's always a bit of a surprise to be kind of up in sort of in the top ten, top five after day one with such a good score as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT