ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 19, 2012
Craig Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Decent day?
CRAIG LEE:   Yeah, it was decent.   Obviously a bit disappointed at the end.   Dropped three in the last‑‑ two in the last three holes.   But I felt I played really nicely.   So, yeah, I'm happy with the score.

Q.   How difficult is it out there?   Is the wind getting up?
CRAIG LEE:   The wind is getting up, yeah.   They have this wind called a Fremantle doc that we were expecting probably a wee bit stronger yesterday, and probably could pick up a wee bit more today. 
But it is testing enough without being silly.   I think if it gets much stronger, then it becomes a very, very tough golf course. 

Q.   Depends how guys this afternoon go, if they get the worst of the conditions‑‑
CRAIG LEE:   I would never wish the worst on anybody.   I think the way the draw kind of works and we played yesterday afternoon, we probably got a bit of wind.   So it's only fair that the morning guys that play in the afternoon today get a bit more wind. 

Q.   You made the trip, keen to do well in Portugal, and you made this trip; big week for you?
CRAIG LEE:   It is.   They are all very crucial weeks now.   I'm obviously right in the kind of cusp of trying to secure a card, so the trip was‑‑ it's always a nice place to come out and play golf.   It was a no‑brainer; I had to come. 
Missed the cut last week which probably did me a little bit of a favour, because I managed to get an early flight and get out here and get prepared.   If I had made the cut last week and still had to come, it might have been a different story, arriving on a Tuesday or Wednesday and sort of playing the course blind.   But I've had long enough to prepare and it's worked out quite well.

Q.   How are you feeling about the game?   You seem to have some pretty decent round and not seemed like a million miles off; it's just stringing it together maybe. 
CRAIG LEE:   It does, it's been very frustrated because I've actually played really nicely and I feel like the short game, which has always been my Achilles heel is coming on a wee bit, and I've missed, what, four out of the last five cuts I've missed, I've missed by one shot. 
So it doesn't take much to turn that around, and obviously big events like Dunhill and Portugal, if you can sort of make the cut in those big ones, it makes life an awful lot easier.
I've been pretty patient and pleased the way it's going so just got to keep plodding away.

Q.   What do you make of the track?
CRAIG LEE:   It's a great golf course.   It really is good.   It's tight enough without being too tight, and it's firm enough without being too firm, and the greens are fast enough without being too fast. 
So I think they have got everything absolutely perfect out there.   It is playing really good and it's a great golf course, you get to play every shot on the back, so it's a joy to play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT