ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2016
Craig Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Happy with your start?
CRAIG LEE: Delighted, yeah, especially after the start I got off to threw three away in the first two holes, single bogey, double-bogey, which isn't the start you're after when you have a long day ahead of you in the wind.  So I'm delighted to get around under par.
Q. How tough is it out there?  You're a Scottish lad; you'll be used to this.
CRAIG LEE: Yeah, you'd call it a wee breeze.  It was a fair old test in fairness.  First year at Castle Stuart, some decent wind and I think the guys will see a different side to Castle Stuart.  In years gone by there's been low scoring because it's not been protected by severe winds, but today is a good test of golf.
Q. In many ways, will it bring the best of Castle Stuart?
CRAIG LEE: There's no question.  They have brought in some of the rough, as well, so a nice bit of definition to the golf course.  I'm sure it will look very pleasing on telly, but certainly to play it, it's great.
Q. From your own point of view, you're tucked just in the top 500 in the World Rankings; what would a good week here mean to you?
CRAIG LEE: Yeah, I had a target of moving forward in the World Rankings a long time ago and I've gradually slipped down the World Rankings.  I've been sort of struggling to keep my card most years.  So a good week here would get me on the right side one time and I could start worrying about Race to Dubais and World Ranking points.  But first thing's first, get the card secure.
Q. But you've given yourself something to build on?
CRAIG LEE: After that start, it was just horrendous.  I couldn't ask really for a worse start.  I only hit one bad shot and I dropped three shots from it.
Yeah, there's obviously a lot of positives because I've had a lot of red figures out there.  So if we can eliminate some of the bad stuff and keep the good stuff going, then yeah, it's going to be a good tournament.
Q. Obviously you don't want to get too far ahead of yourself, but another good round, you've made the cut and then you can focus on maybe hopefully being within striking distance.
CRAIG LEE: Yeah, I mean, as I said, my targets are obviously to keep my card, and if that means defending a score, then I'll probably be more inclined to do that, as opposed to somebody in the Top-10 might attack and squeeze a win, but sometimes it can work the opposite way and be a little bit negative.  But we'll cross that bridge when we come to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT