PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 18, 2015
Craig Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What are your thoughts on the way that you've played and secured a nice result here?  
CRAIG LEE: Yeah, I'm delighted obviously.  I needed a big week somewhere along the line.  Obviously look at the Dunhill, huge prize money last week, and a big week didn't arrive but coming to this week, always nervous at this time of year, especially when you're chasing.  From years gone by, I've generally been in a pretty good position, inside the top 110 or roundabout 110, but this year is different because I was 120th, which money-wise is actually quite a long way away.   
To throw in a good week today under pressure is good.   
 Q.  Did you tell yourself to really go for it today because you had to do something in the final round?  
CRAIG LEE: I've been telling myself to go for it for about eight weeks now and it's never quite materialised.  I got off to a really good start today and sort of settled me down and focused on that.  Every time I looked up and saw the leaderboard, everybody was getting birdies, as well.  They were running away as much as I was trying to catch them.  In the end I managed to get to 12-under, which is quite good.   
 Q.  Lovely position, but probably not quite secure.  So onto Hong Kong?  
CRAIG LEE: Yeah, definitely on to Hong Kong.  It will make Hong Kong a little bit easier now, not needing a Top 15 or Top 10 is going to make life a little bit easier.  But there's still a lot of pressure on but nice to be coming off a high going into next week, as opposed to finishing badly and trying to pick yourself up.  That will make the next two day's commute a little easier.   
 Q.  Tell us the glamour of getting to the Far East?  
CRAIG LEE: I'm flying to Gatwick, staying overnight in Gatwick.  First shuttle up in the morning, staying in Glasgow airport for about four or five hours, flying to Dubai, and then on to Hong Kong.  So I arrive about 7 o'clock Tuesday.   
 Q.  You at least know, Hong Kong, so presumably that helps and familiarity going into the event?  
CRAIG LEE: Yeah, definitely.  Hong Kong, it's a great golf course.  It's probably more of an older style, traditional, a little bit shorter.  If I can overcome the heat and keep myself hydrated, should be good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT