NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 9, 2000
Jason Arnott
Scott Niedermayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How tough was it for you guys trying to kind of recover -- both teams put so much in
the game. Did it kind of rip your hearts out. Hitchcock said you guys did that to them
after Game 4?

SCOTT NIEDERMAYER: No, it was very difficult. Obviously playing this hard in both games
and to lose a game like that, it is pretty difficult. Especially obviously when you
realize where you are, you are in the Finals, so close yet so far, so it was tough, but we
have to regroup and give it our best shot tomorrow night.

Q. Nieuwendyk said that he felt they had that mental edge on you guys now because of
the way they won it. Do they have an edge?

SCOTT NIEDERMAYER: If they think they do, that is fine but I really don't believe that.
We have been in situations before where you lose a game and you have to bounce back and
improve and come out and play better. That is the situation we are in now. We have been in
that situation before.

Q. Scott, tough loss but it was a hell of a game to watch. Must have been an
unbelievable game to play in. What was it like to be a part of that?

SCOTT NIEDERMAYER: Well, I remember being a part of a game like that against Buffalo
quite a while ago. It is different. When you go that long and there hasn't been any goals
scored yet and you are still playing hockey, it is a different feeling, that is for sure.

Q. What about the attitude of the team?

SCOTT NIEDERMAYER: We are still ready to go. We are still excited. We know where we are
and the opportunity that we have, so we are still ready to play hockey.

Q. How is a game different like that after a loss?

SCOTT NIEDERMAYER: It is difficult. When you play that long and that many -- that much
sweat and hard work and you lose a game like, that it is. It is tough. It is difficult.

Q. Any confidence crisis at all? You have played so well on the road? Obviously you are
only one win away from tying the record.

SCOTT NIEDERMAYER: Both goalies have played tremendously well last night. They managed
to get one goal in six periods so they are not exactly lighting it up either. We just have
to do things a little differently that gave us success in other games and that is what we
are going to try and do.

Q. Did you sit down and go over how many great opportunities you all had to win and
just one -- just one happens to go in for them. You got so many chances....

SCOTT NIEDERMAYER: I think that was the nature of the game. Obviously we are in
overtime, nothing has been scored. It is going to be one funny little play that decides
it. But in any loss there is opportunities missed and you look at them but you can't dwell
on them.

Q. What was the attitude of the team?

JASON ARNOTT: We are feeling pretty good. That is the way Playoffs go. You win some,
you lose some. And you got to take the good with the bad and stick with the positives.

Q. How about refocusing and getting the team back on line knowing the opportunity is
still there obviously?

JASON ARNOTT: Yeah, we are excited to play on the road. I think our record has shown
that. But I don't think -- I don't think we can get too overconfident, coming home with a
little momentum and some confidence, so I think we just got to go out and keep playing our
game.

Q. Jason, Nieuwendyk said this afternoon that they have the mental edge over you guys
given what was at stake, one shot and you guys are dancing around with the puck. They took
that away. Now they are playing back on their home ice. Do they have a mental edge?

JASON ARNOTT: I don't think so. I think we got too much character on our team for that.
I think as long as we stay focused on what we are going to do on the ice and get back to
our style and just go out and get back to the basics, we will be fine.

Q. Has it been hard to do that when you lose a game like that because you got to put it
in your rearview mirror, but your body is telling you, I know what we have been through;
you have to be thinking we were so close to wining the whole thing; how do you put that
behind you?

JASON ARNOTT: It is going to be tough. But knowing that both teams went through it and
they are probably going to be just as tired as us, they might have an extra edge with
their home crowd and that, but we have always enjoyed playing in away buildings and we
always play better so hopefully it works out for the best.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT