NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 7, 2000
Jason Arnott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Can you tell us how are the teeth, how is the head, everything -- did you actually
lose teeth or --
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Yeah, I lost all of them, but just put them back in that night. 
 
Q. I am interested to hear your impressions of Scott Stevens as a leader and a player
and especially this Playoff season what he has meant to the success of this team?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Well, I think Scotty, you know, like you said, he is our leader and
everybody goes by him. If he is going, we are all going. He just -- his style of play has
stepped up since the start of this Playoffs tremendously. I see a different player from
the end of the season to the very first game of the Playoffs. Just his hitting, his
emotion in the dressing room; the way he is focused on the ice especially when guys try to
get underneath his skin and, you know, it doesn't even phase him. He just keeps playing
hard and hard. At his age he plays 30, 35 minutes a game and it doesn't even bother him.
He goes out like he is a 20 year old. When we all see that, it really picks us up. 
 
Q. Two-part question. First, do you want to keep a lid on your emotions on a game where
there is a chance to win a Stanley Cup; how hard is that? Second, what sort of injury
would have kept you out of a game where there is a chance to win the Stanley Cup?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Body cast probably. It is tough because you sit at home thinking about
it. But the emotion around the dressing room and the way everybody is thinking right now
is really positive and in a good way. We are not overanxious and we are not too excited
about it because we know that Dallas isn't going to back down by any means and we are
going to have to play probably the game of our lives to win this thing and that is the way
we got to approach it. 
 
Q. Can you just clarify the dental situation, when you say you lost all of them,
talking about a bridge; aren't you?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Yeah. 
 
Q. How many?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Six. 
 
Q. You just rebuilt the bridge; was that the idea?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Yeah. 
 
Q. How many times have you played this game in your head already?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: The next day I didn't really think about it. I was just kind of relaxing,
just kind of hanging out. Today it has been going over in my head, over and over again. It
is hard not to, but it is kind of good preparation and in other words, you are thinking
about good things you are going to do out on the ice. 
 
Q. Are you feeling any effects now from that hit the other night and what is your
impression of it? Was it a clean hit?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Well, no, I am not feel any effects from it. The way the Playoffs have
gone, you know, you got to take your bumps and bruises. There was no penalty on the play,
so I guess the refs felt it was a fair hit or they didn't see it. That is all I am going
to say about that. 
 
Q. You struggled a bit coming off the ice. Were -- you never lost consciousness or
anything?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: I was just dazed a little bit. Any time you get your teeth knocked out,
it definitely dazes you a little bit and I can tell you that by experience. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT