NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 4, 2000
Jason Arnott
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Jason, this is obviously the most important hockey you have ever played. Do you feel
it is close to the best hockey you have ever played?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Yeah, I think so. It is the most exciting hockey to play, that is for
sure. I think everybody dreams about being here, especially that plays for me, yeah, I
think it is probably the best I have ever played. 
 
Q. When you were put on the line with your two Czech wingers, did it click right away?
Did it take a while? How is the communication among the three of you?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: I think when we first got put together we were all excited about it. I
knew that these two guys were two guys that I really wanted to play with. 
 
Q. Why? What about them?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Just their talent there; attitude towards the game, they are willing to
go out and perform every night and want to win. The way they conducted themselves, they
are two great guys, and they have a lot of fun together and I wanted to be a part of that.
When we first got put together it took a little bit, not as long as we all thought, and it
just clicked right off the bat and we have had fun ever since. 
 
Q. When you were traded from Edmonton to New Jersey, at that time did you believe it
was a good move for yourself and now can you just take a look at how you have developed
since you were traded here?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Well, at that time, yeah, it was time for a move for myself. I think for
both situations and when I got to New Jersey they taught me a lot right when I got here
Jacques, Lou and Coach taught me a lot about the game especially about the defensive end
of the game. In Edmonton it was a little bit more wide-open hockey and not too much
defense. When I got here it changed me as a player and as a person and just the learning
experience from not only right through the training staff, down through the players, I had
a chance to live with Scotty for a couple of months and just watching him and being around
him taught me a whole lot too. 
 
Q. Seems the spotlight on your line keeps getting brighter and brighter and brighter as
these Playoffs progress. Are you maybe tired of the spotlight or are you hoping that maybe
some of the other lines will start stepping up a little?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: I don't think my two line mates are tired of the spotlight. (laughs) No,
I mean, this is a chance for us to go out and help the team win. It is a team-oriented
sport. If they are going to put the role on us, we will have to be the line to go out and
help contribute to win; then that is what we want, that is the added pressure that we put
on ourselves, but I think we just try and go out and do the best we can. If the spotlight
is there, great, but I think we got to consider that we got to take the good with the bad
and right now it is going good and hopefully it continues. 
 
Q. Everyone does keep mentioning how you have changed from the days when you were in
Edmonton to now and how you have matured. When did you feel that that had happened? When
did you know that you had developed, as you just said, as a person and as a player? One
moment that you remember.
 
 JASON ARNOTT: I don't think there is one moment. I think it is just through the course
of the couple of years that I have been here. Right when I first got here it was a change
because I have never been traded before and coming to a new team I only knew a couple of
guys. For them to open up and accept me as one of them right away was a real eye-opener
for myself. Especially through the frustrating time I was going through, not being able to
score and doing things that I never did before, it was a tough time and for them to bring
me out of, it was a real eye-opener for me. So I think through the course of the two years
that I have been here I have learned something probably every day and I am still learning
and still growing and still having a lot of fun. 
 
Q. What have you learned from your two line mates, guys that come from a completely
different cultural backgrounds?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: They haven't taught me any Czech yet, that is for sure. (laughs). They
are two young guys that I don't think get a whole lot of credit for what they do on the
ice. They play like they are 200 pounds, 220-pound guys out there. They are not afraid to
go in the corners with anyone. I think European players have -- they have -- they have
been given a certain style of play and these two guys are definitely not like that. They
play the typical Canadian style which everybody is known for. I think they have taught me
a lot about the offense, the way they create and see the ice is amazing and find the open
man and their speed, and it is nice to know that you are playing with two guys that care
about the game as much as you do and want to win as much as you do about the game. 
 
Q. Scott Stevens was saying when you first came to New Jersey one of the things you
asked him was how to make the game fun again; you kind of lost that fun part of it. How
much did he have to do with bringing that back and also in bringing out the physical part
of your game?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Well, I always knew Scott was one of the most physical guys in the NHL
and probably the best open-ice hitter. Just by being around him, hanging out with him,
hanging out with the guys, I think going out and winning on a regular basis was a lot of
fun and I think bringing the physical part of the game to see him at his age go out and do
it day in and day out what he does, really opened up my eyes and made me think that I am a
young guy, I can do this every night, and just watched him perform and I have learned a
lot from him. 
 
Q. Jason, how much did you hate playing against Claude Lemieux and how much have you
learned from him playing with him?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Well, I think everybody hates playing against him. He comes to compete
everyday. I have never seen a guy come to the rink and get prepared and get mad at the
team and get and be nice to the team and the way he competes on the ice, I have never seen
any player do before. And a lot of guys may not like him the way he plays, but you got to
love him when he is on your team because he comes and gives you that extra additive that
maybe you didn't have or that extra edge and he gets under peoples' skin and he is out
there and he works every shift. It is hard to play against him, there is no question. I
have done that for years, but it is great playing with him. 
 
Q. Tomorrow night do you expect the Stars to have a different matchup against you --
they were pretty frustrated last night with the matchup --
 
 JASON ARNOTT: I don't know what they are going to do. I think right now -- I think our
line just has to keep going the way we are and focus in on what we are going to do and if
-- whoever they put against us, we just have to go out and beat whoever we are against. 
 
Q. In the Stars' dressing room on a chalkboard they have a square with the
number"3" counting the amount of games that they have to get to win. Anything in
your locker room?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Right from the get-go when we start these Playoffs that is how we came
about having success was just looking one game and not really looking at the big picture.
I think you get overwhelmed sometimes mostly in the position that we are in right now only
two wins to go, I think it is really something that we just want to play well and win that
next one. I think if we don't do that, we are not going to be successful. We really don't
look at the big picture. It gets harder and harder the closer you get but that is how we
have come about having success and we are going to still do it. 
 
Q. I think some people in the media still are waiting to hear from Claude Lemieux on
the ice. Just give me your impression of the way he has played the series so far?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: He has been playing well. Been playing hard. I think everybody expects
big things from him in the Playoffs just because of his track record and all, but
definitely he has been a big key to our success; maybe not the way that -- defensively,
but he is the one that doesn't make too many mistakes out there and he plays really hard
and his leadership is a big factor in the dressing room and onto the ice. But we are
really happy to have him on our side in this part of the season and I am sure when it's
going to be time when we are going to be needing he could be the one that is going to make
the difference. 
 
Q. Do they need to make the glass the same height in all the rinks so that we don't
have situations like last night?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, I mean, every rink, it should be the same size, I mean, I think
it will come to that when the new buildings will be built. I think right now it is kind of
hard to do it, but I don't think yesterday was a big factor. Could have been ten feet
higher and I think I still would have missed it. (laughs).  
 
Q. Outside of that play that got the penalty, do you find that you are handling the
puck a little bit less than as the games get tighter and the series goes on, or are you
playing it the same as always with the dump-ins?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: I react to whatever they give me. I think they know that they just --
they make it a point not to give it to me easily. I mean, they always rim it around the
glass or really hard and I can't get it. That is fine, this is a part of season that
everybody has got to sacrifice themselves and really do well and if I need to play the
puck I will go out and play it. But definitely I think a lot more of playing in my net
right now, just because the ice and the glass is so bad that I don't want to get out and
maybe trip or the ice is so bad -- few times last night I couldn't get -- tried to get
out, I couldn't get to the puck because I missed the first two, three steps because of the
ice. 
 
Q. Could you go over -- in 1995 I read a story where you visited a sick kid in the
hospital and the inspiration that it brought to him seeing the Cup and I guess -- I read
somewhere that that -- you still think about that to this day?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, I mean, this is one thing great about the Stanley Cup. I think
you are able to -- when you win it you are able to share it with the people that you love
or the causes that you really care about. Back in 1995 I was fortunate enough to bring it
to a cancer for kids hospital, but these kids, it means so much to them and it is so
little for us as hockey players to really bring a smile to their face and it was a lot of
experience with not mostly them, because they are not going to react a lot in front of
you, but they will really talk to their parents. And their parents just because the
situation they are in, they really appreciate these things and get a lot of feedback from
it. I am sure a lot of hockey players around this League, when they do have it and they do
things like that, feel really rewarded by these things. 
 
Q. Are you guys surprised you haven't heard a little bit more from Joe Nieuwendyk in
this series and do you anticipate tomorrow night he's really going to try to make
something happen?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Last series against Colorado I think it was Game 4, he really did a
number on the Avalanche. So it is coming up. He is a guy that I thought he played a solid
game last night. He had a lot of speed and we had to really be careful of him. A good
player. It is hard to keep him out of it for a long period of time and for us, we are
going to need to really have an eye on him because he is a talented guy. You can't give
him much because he will take it. 
 
Q. Do you feel the team maybe relies a little less on you now than they did in 1995
because in 1995 -- the 1995 team was more after tight-checking team?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: Well, I mean, yes and no. I think in 1995 was a little different. I
think everything was brand new to us and we went out and we didn't feel too much of the
adversity and we were not a team that is going to go out and be able to score four, five
goals a game. We were concentrating on not getting scored on and really play well
defensively. This time around I think we have a little more power offensively. We could
hurt teams at times a lot more with our skill that we have up front, but definitely, you
know, in the Playoffs, you always have the save to make to make the difference. That is
what I am here for. 
 
Q. In New Jersey, you guys were all saying, well, the Stars came in here looking for a
split. That is what they got. Now we want to go to Dallas; we have to do the same thing.
Obviously now you can't be satisfied looking for a split.
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: No, not really. I think we are in a great situation right now to really
advance in this series and really put some doubt in their heads. But we are 60 minutes
away from that. It is probably going to be the hardest 60 minutes in the Playoffs so far.
These guys have a lot of experience with the way they have been bouncing back after a loss
throughout the Playoffs. It is going to be a great challenge for us to really play a solid
game and be successful tomorrow night. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT