NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
June 2, 2000
Jason Arnott
Claude Lemieux
Randy McKay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You played in Dallas last year. Was the ice as bad -- was the ice much worse there
at this time of year?
 
 CLAUDE LEMIEUX: Not really. People make a big deal of the ice surface there, but it is
not going to be any worse than it is here or any other building at this time the of the
year. I know they have been working at different things trying to make it better, but it
is going to be the same for both clubs. 
 
Q. Has there been a method to the Playoff success you guys have had?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: I think we played a simpler game on the road. When we are coming home, we
have tendency to turn the pucks over in the neutral zone, make little mistakes that we
don't normally make on the road. I think we played a more relaxed game in keeping it
simple. I think that is basically how we play on the road. 
 CLAUDE LEMIEUX: That is just the way it has been. I think we play, you know, a more
sound game, less turnovers, and just a real sound game on the road. Maybe home, we are
nervous if we don't do well, our fans are going to leave, so -- but no, seriously I think
we have been playing very well. We are just going to keep taking that same approach to
Game 3 and 4 in Dallas. It is a great building to play in, very much alive. If you are not
awake there, the fans will keep you awake. It is a fun place to play. 
 
Q. Scott was in here talking about the pace, how important it was taking advantage of
your speed. How can you go out and establish a pace in the next game?
 
 RANDY MCKAY: I think they did a good job. They played a little bit better in the
neutral zone. It's a matter of what we do too. Sometimes we would keep it simple. That is
what we are going to have to go out there, keep it simple, make sure we get the pucks
deep. They have some people that can score if we turn it over. We've just got to be aware
of that and stay focused and just play together as a team, and that way try to continue
with our flow and our skate, and that is the -- (inaudible). 
 JASON ARNOTT: I think right off the bat we want to establish our pace. We want to go
out and do the things that we want to do, and definitely try not to worry about what they
are doing. I think we just got to get back to the basics, keeping the puck deep and using
our speed to our advantage and fighting for that puck when we have the chance. We have to
be a little more aggressive. And like we were in the first game, we were hungry for the
puck, and we got away from that. But on the road hopefully we will get back to that. 
 
Q. Jason, I am going to ask you about the matchup with Modano. They seem to want that
now. How do you feel about that?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: I don't know. I still think we had opportunities to score last night. It
has been fun playing against them. It is definitely a challenge out there to go out and
play against two guys like that. I think we were a little off our game last night, and we
can go better as a line, and especially in the turnovers I think it cost us last night.
And we realize that, and it is just something we got to fix and keep going and stay
positive as a whole unit. 
 
Q. Would you rather face their first line, or would you rather face the checking line?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: I don't know. I mean, you stick anybody against us, we just have to play
whoever plays against us -- whether they stick Modano against us or one of their checking
lines, we are going to have to fight through it and play good defense as well, because a
lot of their guys can score. And you got to be aware of all of them. For sure, when Modano
is on, you have got to be more aware of turnovers in the neutral zone and defensive zone. 
 
Q. Did it surprise you that they did that? That they matched you with Modano?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Not really, because they have been playing great defensive hockey. They
have been their top line, Modano and Hull, it didn't surprise me at all. We played a
little bit against them in Game 1. And like, I guess, they wanted that matchup a little
more in Game 2. Game 2, they got the bounces and we didn't. But we will be better in Game
3. 
 
Q. Seen a big difference in the styles of play Eastern Conference, Western Conference? 
 
 CLAUDE LEMIEUX: Obviously, Colorado, when I was there, we knew each other a lot better
than they know of our club. And after you play a round or play each other eight, nine, ten
times in the Playoffs and regular season, you get to know each other better. You get
better a matchup or that type of stuff. But I don't think -- I don't think it is that much
different. I think they are a big, strong team, and with quality players in different
areas and we are built the same way here so I think it is a good matchup and again, as
Jason said, they got some bounces for themselves and that first goal last night off side
by a few feet, that is going to happen but that is going to happen once every 50 games,
maybe, and it happened for them last night. So now we got to go out and make our own
breaks and get the job done. 
 
Q. Last night I guess seemed to be a little more physical or chippy in a sense.
(inaudible)
 
 JASON ARNOTT: We have been disciplined through this whole Playoffs and last night we
got away from that a little bit getting into the scrums and whatnot and we don't need
that. That is not our game. We got to hit, initiate and get away. They are trying to muck
it up a bit, get us off our game and do the little things to try and slow us down and for
the most part I guess it worked a little bit. We weren't as disciplined as we usually
were; got into too many scrums and I think that is something that we have got to learn
about and fix and just get in and initiate the next game and get away. 
 
Q. I believe you are one of only five or six active players who won three Cups. Three
of them are in the series, yourself and former teammates, Carbonneau and Keane. Anything
you guys have in common to get you to this point?
 
 CLAUDE LEMIEUX: Obviously you got to be at the right place at the right time. You got
to be on a team that is good enough to win. I think we are similar in some ways. We can
bring different things that are needed in the Playoffs and our style of play, our all
around game that we can contribute in different areas and they both have been, Keane and
Carbonneau, great competitors over the years and always known for their Playoff
performance and how they chip in and then shut down some of the other teams' best players
and that type of stuff. I have been able to do the same thing. So one of us is going to
get a fourth Cup and I just hope it is myself. I think as we talked earlier, we know what
we did wrong and we are on a mission and we are going to try to accomplish that goal in
Dallas and go out and play the hockey that we can play. 
 
Q. Are you encouraged that you are getting the chances now or are you there -- sitting
there worried (inaudible)--
 
 RANDY MCKAY: Definitely I am a little frustrated not burying the chance I had last
night, but the one thing I have got to look at today, last two games I probably had five
or six of some of my better scoring chances in the whole Playoffs, so, that might be
coming because maybe my timing has come back or something has come back; now it is just a
matter of time, I am not going to get chances like that night after night and continually
be stoned. I just got to go in. I have got to work hard. I have got to do the things that
gets me my scoring chances and that is working hard and hitting and making things happen
eventually, you know, I might end up with just a tap-in, open net, sooner or later. But I
have got to stay positive. If I start getting too frustrated right now I will get worse. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT