NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: STARS v DEVILS
May 30, 2000
Jason Arnott
Martin Brodeur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Better tonight than you have been all year?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Tonight it was just an all-around effort. A lot of people keep
pinpointing our line, but with the contributions from everybody we are not going to be
here where we are right now and we just want to go out and keep working hard and keep
having fun and we knew this was going to be exciting and it is going to be a lot of fun,
but we had to focus and fortunately we scored some goals for us. 
 
Q. What adjustment do you think Dallas will make for Game 2?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: They are going to come out hard, flying and playing dirty hockey. No
question about it, Eddie Belfour is going to come out rock solid and I think we got to
worry about what we are going to do out there and not -- play the same way and correct the
little mistakes that we made tonight. 
 
Q. Marty, if there is a turning point in the 4-goal game it will be the saves you made.
When the third goal went in, could you appreciate the significance of the save you had
made 30 seconds earlier?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: For sure I think in a game there is a lot of situations that are really
important and at that time it became a big save because we came back and scored two quick
goals and really took over the game from there. But everybody tried to chip in any way
they can and today was really -- offensively we did it. 
 
Q. Marty, talk about Daneyko.....
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: I try to make him the game winner too. I think it would have been fun
for him. I think he has got a big heart, plays the game real hard. He has been the heart
and soul of New Jersey for the last more than 15 years, I am sure. And I think it is great
for him to be able to contribute offensively with a big goal like that in a Stanley Cup
Final game. 
 
Q. Marty, going back to the double save on Modano and Hull, those guys obviously have
been scoring a lot of goals during these Playoffs. What is going through your mind as you
see them coming at you?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: It happened real quick. It was a breakdown, puck was bouncing, he just
walked into a big slapper. I had a hard time controlling it, went right on his stick, I
knew Modano shot, but I didn't know who took the rebound. My eyes were right on the puck.
I was lucky to get a glove on the second. 
 
Q. Jason, when Kenny scores that goal, when you guys see that almost in a lighthearted
way, as important he is to you guys, do you almost say to yourself, geez, if he can figure
Belfour out, I guess we can? Does it give you a lift?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Yeah, it was an emotional lift. Kenny has been saying in the dressing
room he will give up his goals and things like that to block shots and play good
defensively and he has for us throughout the season. As Marty said, he is one of the heart
and souls of this team and to see him score and jump up and down like that to boost the
team, this is a huge lift for us. 
 
Q. Jason, guys get moved around all the time, line to line. Your line has been together
a fairly long time now. How much has that helped? Were you worried at all when you were
temporarily taken apart a couple of games here?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: It is definitely nice to play for two players for that amount of time. We
enjoy playing with each other and had a lot of fun at it. I think the meetings we have
together and the work ethic from those two guys, we just go out and try to work as hard as
we can for each other. We know that we are going to have the opportunity to play with each
other, so it gives us an extra additive. When they split us up, it was at a rocky time for
our team. We needed some adjustment. Larry said it was just going to be for a few games.
We weren't worried about it. 
 
Q. Marty, going back to the 1995 series, most people probably considered the Red Wings
the favorites going in just as most people probably considered the Stars the favorites
this year. Yet you guys haven't lost a game in the Finals. Is there any comparison to that
series with how this one has begun?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: It was a lot different. I think this series, both series I guess we
have a lot of respect for the team that we are playing against. I think we feared them to
a point; we don't take them lightly at any time and in 1995 we were scared of playing that
series because they were the team that was supposed to win and really beat us bad. We just
kept on playing well and we give our chance to win every night and next thing you know the
series was over. So it was great. This time around it is about the same thing, these guys,
we know that they have a lot more to give than what they did tonight and we got some lucky
bounces; got some goals and got a good lead for us to be really dominant in this game. But
it starts at zero again in the next game. 
 
Q. Jason, how exciting is it for you to have a big performance in a big game like this?
 
 JASON ARNOTT: Well, it is exciting. I mean, just all the hype and just being around the
locker room and out seeing the fans so excited, it was definitely nice to have an exciting
game like that. But we got to calm down and keep it on an even level. We know that these
guys are going to come back hard. I think we just got to keep going the same way and keep
working hard. 
 
Q. Marty, can you walk me through the save on Hull. Tell me about the effect of
Daneyko's goal?
 
 MARTIN BRODEUR: About Kenny, I think like Jason said it earlier, I think it was really
emotional for everybody to see him score a big goal like this and the way he reacted. I
think he deserves what happened to him. He has been working hard. I think it is great that
it happened to him to score a goal in the Finals. About the save, Modano came down flying
through the neutral zone and the puck was bouncy a little bit and when he got through the
blue line he took a hard slapper. I had a hard time controlling it. And it went right on
Brett Hull, when he was coming down charging the net, and I was able to react and got my
glove. I made the save there. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT