NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: DEVILS v AVALANCHE
June 3, 2001
Jason Arnott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Where did you get hit?
 
JASON ARNOTT: Inside of the head, in the temple. 
 

Q.  It was a clearing play from what we could tell?
 
JASON ARNOTT: Yeah. 
 

Q.  Do you remember much of it?  Obviously you were dazed on the bench.
 
JASON ARNOTT: Yeah, after I got hit, it didn't feel too bad.  I thought it was cut at first.  Then I got to the bench and just blacked out for a second and went off, tried to come back out and just couldn't do it.  Just couldn't do it.  
 

Q.  What has it been diagnosed as?  And will you play tomorrow night?
 
JASON ARNOTT: Right now everything is clear.  Just a ring of the head.  As of tomorrow, I will have to see how I feel tomorrow morning, tomorrow. 
 

Q.  It will be a game-time decision?
 
JASON ARNOTT: Yeah, I think so.  See how I feel tomorrow morning and then maybe have a nap and see how I feel tomorrow night. 
 

Q.  Will you tell the doctor and they will make a decision?
 
JASON ARNOTT: Yeah. 
 

Q.  How do you feel right now?
 
JASON ARNOTT: A little dizzy, don't feel overly great, but after a flight, I guess that is to be expected. 
 

Q.  Do you feel nauseous?  Were you nauseous last night?
 
JASON ARNOTT: Yeah, I was nauseous last night. 
 

Q.  And now?
 
JASON ARNOTT: Yeah. 
 

Q.  Is it diagnosed as a conclusion or not clear?
 
JASON ARNOTT: It is not clear.  They just said everything was normal and everything was fine through the brain and through everything else.  
 

Q.  When did you know that Petr scored the winning goal?
 
JASON ARNOTT: I found out before I went there for my CT scan that Petr scored.  It took about a half an hour.  Then they came in and told me that we won.  
 

Q.  (Inaudible)
 ?
JASON ARNOTT: It was good.  It was nice to see the guys rise and get that big win. 
 

Q.  Will you wear a shield at all or  --
 
JASON ARNOTT: No. 
 

Q.  Do you feel headache and nauseous now or has that subsided a little bit?
 
JASON ARNOTT: I feel a little bit of it now.  Whether that is a little bit part of the flying here from the or from the hit it is probably a bit of both. 
 

Q.  They said you were out?
 
JASON ARNOTT: No, it hit me in the helmet, thank God. 
 

Q.  If this were a regular season would you --(inaudible)
 
JASON ARNOTT: Probably not, no.  I felt not too bad and I came back and I guess the exertion and didn't work and I came off after the first and just wasn't there. 
 

Q.  When something like that happens to you it must be scary?
 
JASON ARNOTT: I was pretty scared.  I didn't know what was going on, especially after I saw the doctors and they said that everything looked okay and normal.  Then not being able to go out and play was a little shocking. 
 

Q.  How discouraged would you be whether you know you are going to be able to finish a game to put yourself in position where you start the game and then don't feel well?
 
JASON ARNOTT: It is hard, especially after it happened in the first shift.  First period.  
 

Q.  I mean, decision for tomorrow night, whether you go in, let's say you play a period, then don't feel well.  Is that a part of your concern?
 
JASON ARNOTT: Absolutely.  I don't want to go out there and skate in warmup or drop the puck and have one shift and then have -- and then have to pack it in, that is going to leave us one man short.  I really have to think about it how I feel tomorrow and it is an important time of the year.  It is one of the biggest games of the year and I definitely don't want to miss it.  But I also have to look ahead as well. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT