MOTEL 6 CACTUS BOWL: BAYLOR VS BOISE STATE
December 26, 2016
Ryan Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RYAN REID: Just Coach Grobe coming in, the spiel we had after winning six, the whole thing with the coaches in May.  And just the excitement we had the years before.  And it's so much to remember and so many memories I've made with these teammates and my coaches.  It's exciting.
Q. The coaches all came back.  That was a decision Coach Grobe made.  It's not easy for them either.  They at times lost it.  What were they like day to day?  What was it like when you knew they were upset, too.  How did the players react to that?
RYAN REID: Well, one thing they did a great job at is not showing it.  They never really showed it out on the field.  Never really showed it out at practice.  Never showed it out at the game.
After the games, you know, in the locker room, you know, they were always heartbroken.  You could see it in their faces because I know they love us with a passion.
We know they'll go to the end of the earth for us.  And that's what kept us going and kept us fighting.
Q. I asked Kyle this, was this more difficult than even you thought it could be?  Start from May 26th until now.
RYAN REID: No.  It wasn't.  I always expect the worst and it wasn't the worst.
Q. Why do you expect the worst, because of what you've been through?
RYAN REID: No, because I mean you never know what you're going to get out of the situation, and that's just how I always go into any type of situation expecting the worst.
Q. What would a win tomorrow night mean and would it change the way you look at this year?
RYAN REID: A win tomorrow night would mean sunshine in Texas, definitely over Waco.  And it would mean a lot to not just me but this whole team.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
RYAN REID: They're well balanced.  They have a great, great running back, and they have some talented receivers to go with them.  When you have a quarterback like they do, all he has to do is just distribute the ball, get the ball to the players that he knows will make the plays and that the coaches know.
And that's the difficult part about it is just getting the adjustments done on defense to take away their big plays.
Q. I know you've played a lot of really good offenses, really good teams in the Big 12.  When you're watching them on film, they're obviously a quality team when you look at them on film?
RYAN REID: Yeah, it's a whole different offense.  And when you're looking at it, it's, like, man, why are they doing all these formations, all these shifts and motions?  And what are they trying to do to us?
And when you look at it they're just trying to outleverage you and try to outsmart you.  And when you get a team like that, you really have to throw the Big 12 tendencies out of the fast tempo and just bombs away, because they're looking to beat you and they're going to try to do it any way they can.
Q. The running back just announced he's going pro an hour ago.  Do you think he'll come out pretty motivated in his final game tomorrow?
RYAN REID: I know he will.  Congratulations to him.  I know he'll come out with a fire under him.  And I know he's going to come out like his hair's on fire.  So we have to stop him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT