BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2016
Ryan Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TCU - 62, Baylor - 22   
 Q.  How disappointing was it, I guess the whole team, but particularly the defensive performance, after y'all played pretty well for six or seven weeks?  
RYAN REID: It's really disappointing.  You ask me, just being a leader on defense, we played horrible.  We have to pick it up.  There's nothing to it, there's nothing to sugar coat.   
 Q.  Did the distractions get to y'all?  You saw the coaches tweets last night, there were a bunch of CAD shirts and stuff out there today.  Did you notice that or were from there many distractions for y'all?  
RYAN REID: Me myself personally I stayed off social media, starting Friday.  So, with me, a distraction from all that, no.  Can't really speak on my teammates, but one thing you have to do is just you can't worry about that.  You have to worry about who is ahead of you in this game we're going to play.   
 Q.  It was such a good start, with 6-0.  After these two tough losses, how do you guys make sure it doesn't totally start crumbling and you lose the season all together?  
RYAN REID: In practice we got to go 150 percent.  You got push yourself a little harder.  You got to push yourself until you feel you're just about to die out there.  You got to get the best out of yourself.  I feel like that's one thing I'm going to do going into this next week with Oklahoma.   
 Q.  If this isn't rock bottom, what is?  
RYAN REID: Oh, man, losing out.  That's rock bottom.  We can bounce back.  We lost two games, we just can't go downhill from here.  We have to just keep moving and trying to win the rest of the games.   
 Q.  Is the entire team still bought in?  Are they all-in for the ultimate goal, which is now not a Big-12 championship, but to finish the season strong?  
RYAN REID: I wouldn't say we are going to lose the Big-12 championship.  The season's still going on.  You don't know who is going to lose out or how other teams are going to play.  But one thing I have to keep on their minds is that we have been there before, we have been to Big-12 championships, we know how to play.  I just got to push my teammates and myself just to a different level.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT