BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 15, 2016
Kyle Fuller
Ryan Reid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas - 7, Baylor - 49
Q. Ryan, two interceptions, a pick six.  Kind of talk about it and go through the plays.  You were in the zone today, and you're also trending on Twitter, too?
RYAN REID: Well, the first thing, we game planned for the outs and just certain routes that they run.  It changed our whole game plan.  The second thing is, man, I just put it in God's hand.  I had faith all season.  This is something I prayed about, just to live up to the expectations that I know I can, and it just turned out great.
Q. Ryan, you told me the other day you could dance.  Now after your touchdown, what was the dance that you did?
RYAN REID: It's called the Kodak Bop.  It's a rapper dance.
Q. You guys had a rough week against Iowa State, and coach said you were working on fundamentals a lot during the bye week.  How far were y'all coming in, the defense coming into this game to have a better game?
RYAN REID: I mean, we were just trying to make a statement.  A lot of people thought that the Iowa State film is who we are, which it's not.  So we had to make a statement with our next game.  And I told you Kansas was in the way, and I told you we were going to up can out fired up.
Q. A follow-up to the Kodak Bop, is it a Kodak Black video?
RYAN REID: Yes, it is.
Q. Like you said, Iowa State, you said (Inaudible) how important was it to come out today and not let that happen again, not keep it close?
RYAN REID: Like I said, we were fired up about it.  We didn't want to play like that ever again in the season.  Like I said, we just have to make a statement and show everybody.
Q. The last two games y'all started out a little slower on the defense.  What was that like going out today and really starting on a high note, getting the pick six and starting in the first half?
RYAN REID: Well, first it starts in practice.  In practice we start off during -- our two practices in the bye week we started off pretty fast.  And this week for preparation, up against the offense, we made sure we started off fast, and it led over to the game.
Q. What does it mean to this team?  I know you've been 6-0 before, but to get to the halfway point and you're still undefeated, highest ranked Big 12 team, what's it mean to this team after all you've been through?
RYAN REID: To us it just shows everybody on the team that we're dangerous.  We have a bye week again.  We get to rest again, so everybody else should be should be worried about Baylor again.  So we're ready.
Q. You mentioned practice and film twice already today.  Would you say over these last two weeks maybe have been some of the best you guys have had?  You brought it up twice?
RYAN REID: Yeah, I mean, that's what playing on Saturday all comes from practice and film.  Just learning what you did wrong, trying to correct stuff.  Just going out there and polishing it up.  It really starts on Friday during the walk through.  You've got to polish up during the walk through and that's where it all started.
Q. Can you tell the elevator story from last night?  Apparently you guys got stuck for a while?
KYLE FULLER: Well, I was the only one that wasn't on there.  Everybody else was on there.  So apparently somebody jumped and I guess it stopped in between floor one and two, and they were on there for like an hour.  So I just came downstairs and I saw the fire department there, so I mean, it was pretty serious, apparently.  They all came out sweating and stuff.  So, yeah, it was a big deal.
Q. Same question I asked Ryan.  What's it mean to this team to be 6-0 halfway through the season, and for a Big 12 team and all you've been through this year?
KYLE FULLER: That was our second goal as an offensive line for sure.  We have it written on our wall.  Make sure that we get bowl eligible first.  It's a really big deal because this is my -- I think every year I've been here we've been bowl eligible after the first six or seven games, so it's a really big deal to us.  We're just going to take it game by game.
Q. Kyle, Kansas was pretty good.  They were ranked in the top of the nation in sacks and tackles for loss.  Talk about the way that you guys were able to protect the quarterback and had very few tackles for loss?
KYLE FULLER: The big thing was we watched a lot of film this week on a lot of their defensive tendencies, and that's what we do every week.  But this week more so than most.  We know that they have a really good defensive front.  So, you know, that was a challenge for us going into the game and they remember that really well.
Q. After beating Iowa State close on the road, how much were y'all itching to get back and play the game today?
KYLE FULLER: I mean, we just take it game by game.  We had a bye week.  We had one this week, so we're going to use those bye weeks to the best of our advantage.  That was really the emphasis going into the bye week was make sure that we don't take these boys lightly.  And that's how it's going to be after this bye week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT