TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2015
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE: Jason Gore, thanks for joining us for a few minutes.  You're off to a great start here at the Travelers Championship, 64-68.  And just a minute ago outside you were described as the most entertaining person that Michael Collins knows.  So with that kind of introduction, I'll just turn it over to you.  Congratulations on a great position heading into the weekend.JASON GORE: Thank you so much.  Michael was drunk (laughing).Q. Why did you play so well the last couple days?  What's it been, Jason?JASON GORE: Contrary to popular belief, I still think I'm a pretty good golfer.  So I've just been hitting it well and hitting it in the right spots.  Haven't got the putter quite warmed up yet, but I mean yesterday I think I averaged 13 feet from the hole or something like that.  So I've been hitting it close and driving it in the fairway and taking advantage of some of the opportunities out there.  I've still got two more days, so we'll see. Just for a while now I felt like something good is coming.  So I'm just going to kind of keep it at that and just go forward.Q. The back nine is playing a lot easier than the front nine.  Did you find it that way and what is the big difference?JASON GORE: Did you see my scorecard?  (Laughing).  I think today just the wind is different.  There were a lot of holes into the wind on the front that we're not used to seeing.  Like number 8, 8 is hard.  It's a 195-yard par-3 that is dead into the wind, and you can't really tell how into the wind it is so turned 7 into a hard hole.  Turned 4 into a really hard hole.  So you just have to kind of plod your way along.  The back nine has some opportunities to make some birdies, and you just kind of have to hang on for dear life on the front and get them on the back.Q. If memory serves, I think you graduated from the Web.com Tour and you came here for your first event, but you've never had a lot of success here.  Why this week do you think versus other times?JASON GORE: I don't know.  I've just always liked the golf course.  I feel very comfortable on the golf course, and it's Friday.  We'll figure that out.  We tend to get ahead of ourselves a lot.  All of a sudden now I played a couple good rounds.  I'm just going to keep going. I've always loved this place.  I think the people here are phenomenal.  We always get great turn outs.  The fans are super supportive.  I don't know why I've never played well here.  I've just always felt like I should.Q. Hard to believe it's been ten years since that final round pairing and heading into the U.S. Open and is it hard to think time has gone by so quickly.JASON GORE: Mentally or physically?Q. However you want to address it.JASON GORE: Mentally, no; physically, yes.  I'm 41 now and there are things that you wake up and go where the heck did that come from?  But learned a lot since then.  Yeah, don't take things for granted.  It's one thing I've learned.  Golf is a very fickle game.  I think one thing that's helped me get back to playing where I should be is just my love of the game.  There for a while I didn't love it.  I've always played golf because it was fun to me. I'm not a business guy, you know?  I don't play golf as a business.  It's fun to me.  There is a lot more stuff that I could probably do a lot better.  Like I said before, I've got a diploma from a great college.  I think they kicked me out with a diploma there I think is more appropriate.  But there are other things that can be done.  I can watch my kids grow up and stuff like that, but it's just always been a passion of mine, and I love doing it so here I am.Q. There are four places in the Open at St. Andrews.  Is that on your mind at all?JASON GORE: It wasn't until somebody just brought it up to me.  Amanda just brought it up.  Like I said, I've played professional golf for 18 years now and I've never been to Europe.  So that just blows my mind.  It blows a lot of people's mind.  But playing at St. Andrews, that would be a lot of fun, but we've got a long way to go.Q. When you came on the scene, you were an instant fan favorite.  Can you still get that kind of reaction?  Or do people say, hey, I remember that guy.  I remember what he did X-number of years ago.  Do you get that reaction?JASON GORE: People are still really good to me, yes.  It just takes one little drop of good play to have a lot of people in your corner again which is really cool.  Everybody's been great.  It's not like, oh, yeah, there's that former fat kid over there.  But everybody has been really, really good to me, especially down in the Carolinas.  The Pinehurst area, they've always been really, really good to me.DOUG MILNE: Jason, we hope to see a lot more of you this weekend.JASON GORE: You were just waiting for me to come in and say fat kid (laughing).


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT