PUERTO RICO OPEN PRESENTED BY SEEPUERTORICO.COM
March 8, 2014
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jason, before we get into talking about all the birdies you made and all the fun you were having on the Back 9, I gotta ask you, rumor is that Charles Barkley of all people was helping you out?
JASON GORE:   Well, I just met Charles that day, and he goes, so what's been wrong the last few years.   I said, you know, I kind of just‑‑ I've lost my love for the game.   He goes, well, why.   I said, man, I have a family.   He said, man, I ain't buying that.   Not exactly in those words.   But he goes I ain't buying it.   He goes, why would you not want to provide your family a better life, and doing something you love.   And it was one of those things, he wasn't‑‑ it wasn't Nostradamus or anything like that.   He didn't break any barriers there, but it did kind of hit a hard string and made me stop to think why would I not want to be better for them and provide better, and lucky to get to do what I do.   And just want to be a better golfer.

Q.   Absolutely.   And we played for Riviera, you played in the Monday qualifier.   You shot 65.   I've watched you play.   You're spot on in your game right now.   How fun was it out there making seven in a row and when was the last time you can remember doing that?
JASON GORE:   It's been a while.   I mean I got off to a really rough start.   I bogeyed one, three‑putted one and hit it behind a tree and then chunked a chip and made six on 2, which is basically a shot and a half.
For some reason I was just really patient, just said, you know, it wasn't a matter of if, it was a matter of when.   And just stood in the twelfth fairway and said, all right, it's time, and just kind of hit a good shot there and finally made a putt and started to hit it close and just kind of kept going, never really thought about what I was doing, just kind of kept trying to hit good shots and go from there.

Q.   Golf's a lot of fun when you can do that.   Jason, thanks for your time.   Good luck tomorrow. 

Q.   So go over again, when did you talk to Barkley and where? 
JASON GORE:   It was right around the first of the year.

Q.   Where was it? 
JASON GORE:   It was in Scottsdale.

Q.   In Scottsdale?
JASON GORE:   But I mean we just‑‑ it was kind of one of those last things that kind of pushed me over the edge.   I mean I've been working with Drew (Stuckle) over here on my golf swing, and we've been working hard.   My caddy came out for five weeks just to prepare for the year, and it was just one of those things, we're not keeping anything short.   We're just going to go do it the hard way, the old‑fashioned way and finally realized I'm still decent at doing this, and I still love doing it.   So if I'm going to do it, I better do it well.

Q.   When you talked to him, did you just happen into him at that point?
JASON GORE:   Yeah.   I just kind of ran into him.   We were playing the Tommy Bahama Desert Marlin in Phoenix in Scottsdale and it was just a pro scratch, fun, good old times and he just kind of yelled over and we were leaving and he was like, hey, come on in and have a drink, and I'm with my recovering alcoholic buddy, so we're not drinking.   But that's when he said that to me.   I was like, you know what, you're right.   That is true.   Sometimes you gotta take the good and the bad as part of it.   We travel and we're gone a lot, but if I can be a good provider and a good husband at the same time, they understand.

Q.   Sure.   Now, on the streak, was there a shot early that, maybe a couple shots early that really got you going?
JASON GORE:   After the first two holes I actually hit it pretty well and didn't get much out of it.   I lipped out a few times and burned a couple of edges, and I was still hitting pretty solid, quality shots and just wasn't getting anything out of it.   Hit it right at it on 9 and it hit right on the lip of the bunker and then kicked back, and didn't hit a great bunker shot, and hit it out to about 12 feet and actually made that. 
And then that kind of woke me up a little.   It was just one of those, it was almost like making a birdie.   And then standing in 12 fairway I just had a perfect number, and I looked at my caddy and I was like, all right.   Let's get down to work here.   Hit it 15 feet and made it and then just kind of got it going after that.   Just hit a lot of really good quality, close shots. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT