VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 4, 2013
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to welcome Jason Gore.   Jason, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a successful 3‑under 69 today.   You're making your 7th start here at the Valero Texas Open, and second start of the 2013 season on the PGA TOUR.   With that, I'll turn it over to you and let you talk. 
JASON GORE:   It was cold.   Probably didn't have to say that, but it was a day to play smart, and I hit some good, smart shots and made a couple of putts, a couple of good saving putts and that's just kind of what you have to do today. 
DOUG MILNE:   You mentioned outside to Scott Walker the confidence factor.   You've made four starts on the Web.com Tour, missed the first two cuts and then had top 20s in the previous two.   How much of a factor is confidence, in fact, playing into what has gotten you here today? 
JASON GORE:   The whole game is confidence really.   I've been working really hard.   It's really the first time in a couple of years that I've actually put my whole mind into being a professional golfer again.   I kind of had thoughts of walking away and doing something else.   Since that didn't really pan out, I just decided to get back to having fun and working hard.   Like actually working hard; not just wasting time standing out there, but actually doing the right things and stuff like that.   I was just telling Scott out there that it really didn't hit me that I was still good at this game until I absolutely just hit it like a 14 handicap, maybe not even that good.   And the back nine on Saturday in Louisiana, I mean, I hit five balls in the hazard and one out of bounds and I think I shot 1‑over par on that nine holes.   So I realized that I could still get the ball in the hole. 
Sometimes playing bad and making a good score out of it makes you realize that you're still good.   So it's just one of those things.

Q.   Can you talk about the idea of playing here?   You've played here before.   Obviously, you know when the wind switches around to the north, like it did today, it's a different golf course.   How difficult was it today as far as the unseasonable winds out there? 
JASON GORE:   The downwind holes are now into the wind.   I mean, really, that's it.   A lot of the holes are cross‑wind, and it's just cold, really.   Really this isn't a golf course that you have a game plan on.   You can't walk up and say I'm going to hit 3‑wood off the 4th tee or 5th tee, whatever it is.   You've got to have an - I want to hit it in this area right here - and then that's your game plan.   So if the wind switches or flips around, you're still going and playing that. 
It's not a golf course where you can just hit driver on every hole and go from there.   Sometimes you're going to have 4‑iron into holes that you don't want to have 4‑iron into, but that's what makes this golf course great.

Q.   Speaking of the changes to this golf course from last year, did you notice them on number 12, and the green changes, the complexes and all of that? 
JASON GORE:   A hundred percent.   Yeah, they just softened them up, and they've done a fantastic job with it.   Especially 10, you could hit a shot into 10 last year and just miss it right and all of a sudden you're 20 yards down off the green, and you're just shaking your head at it.   But I think the changes they've made to this golf course are fantastic.

Q.   You don't have to give me all your personal details, but, overall, how is your health? 
JASON GORE:   I'm good.   I'm really good.   Physically I'm great.   Mentally is always suspect.   I'm probably as healthy as‑‑ gosh, I'm going to say probably as I've ever been.   I've lost 44 pounds.   That was another one of those things.   I kind of lost it last year, but I got back and started doing some hard work and just trying to take this game seriously again.

Q.   And just feeling better overall? 
JASON GORE:   Yeah, I mean, the dogs still love me; the wife still loves me; my kids love me.   I think my wife still loves me (laughing).   But, just I'm in a good place.   I'm in a very happy place.   I'm very content with things. 
Like I said, out there, I get to play golf for a living.   How much more lucky can I get?   Thanks to the nice people of Valero I'm here too.   Either that or I would have been in Brazil.

Q.   There was always that talk of last year the Twitter campaign.   That's put away now?   You don't have to do it?   The Thunder has been created from that.   Now every tournament knows they need to give you a sponsor's exemption? 
JASON GORE:   Yeah, or else (laughing).   No, that was a complete accident.   I saw Steve Wheatcroft tried to do that again.   I retweeted it for him.   Yeah, that ship sailed.   That was a complete accident that I certainly wasn't going to stop, because it was too much fun but, yeah.   Sorry, Elio.   Sorry Northern Trust.   It's coming where soon hopefully I won't need any more sponsors' invites.   That is the plan. 
DOUG MILNE:   Jason, as always we appreciate your time and are thrilled to have you back in here. 
JASON GORE:   It's good to be back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT