WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2010
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Jason, bogey-free round. That hasn't happened in awhile.
 JASON GORE: I didn't realize that. It doesn't happen very often. It comes fairly early and I settled down and did well. 

 Q. Did you feel like you left anything out there.
 JASON GORE: It doesn't matter if you shoot 53. There's still going to be something out there. I left a few putts. The greens got a lot of the water this morning. They're the best they can be. 
 All in all, I felt pretty good. I made two 20-footers which was been a lifetime for me since I've done that. It's a good solid start.

 Q. Explain the big pants.
 JASON GORE: They go with the shoes.

 Q. The shoes are black, the hat and shirt is black. Little pink stripe on the shoes. Okay. Really nice. So those shoes really don't work with much else.
 JASON GORE: Depends. No. I got these pants with the Breast Cancer Awareness and got some shoes made.

 Q. It's a fashion statement. It obviously helped your game. Wash them and bring them back on Sunday.
 JASON GORE: I think these things are beyond washing.

 Q. You know Kevin Harvick? How do you know him?
 JASON GORE: You want the long or short story? My son, Jackson, is huge NASCAR fan. Don't know why or how. His favorite driver is Kevin Harvick. 
 This year at the Shell Houston Open I got an invite, since he drives the Shell car, we went to the dinner. Less than 200 people. They introduced him. 
 I said to my wife, "Should I get his autograph for Jackson?" "Absolutely." I walked over, kind of, you know, little slowly and not very easily and started talking. "My son is a huge fan." 
 He goes, "Where are you from?" I said, "From Valencia." He said, "I'm from Bakersfield. I have my first charity event for his foundation next Wednesday." 
 I said, "Well, barring any sudden W getting into Augusta, I'll be home." I said, "Well, if you need any help let me know." 
 He called me. I went up there and we played and he asked if I had ever been to a NASCAR race. I said no. Megan and Jackson have. "Why don't you come to Phoenix this weekend?" Okay, I'll go, thinking now I got to get on Southwest. 
 He said, "I'll send my plane out to pick you and your family up to bring you out to Phoenix and come watch the race and we'll turn around and take you home." Good friend to have (laughter).
 Yeah. We played that day and he joined and we --

 Q. He's a member here?
 JASON GORE: Yes, at Sedgefield. We helped him out a bunch this week. Josh Young is his Business Manager and he and I are really close. How is he playing, what's going on. Got this sort of very mild romance going on (laughter). 
 He's a great guy. I love to sit there and talk to him. Last night be watching the truck race. It was really cool to like know what's going on in a truck. I love it.

 Q. There's a lot of people in this field that are to play their way back on the Tour or play their way on to the Tour.
 JASON GORE: Good observation. It's a great event and it's just -- it's an odd -- it's a tough week between things. I've been pressing way too hard. I feel like I'm still a great player and I've just been pushing too hard and trying too hard instead of realizing that I still have the game and talent. 
 Nothing has happened to me. I'm physically, I'm a hundred percent, I feel great. Feel like I'm swinging it good. I haven't done anything well. I haven't done anything poorly. I haven't put it altogether. Patience has been hard.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT