VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2016
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jas, good play today.  You're not very happy with a bogey on 18.  If you're happy about bogeying the last hole you need to find another job, don't you?
JASON GORE: Well, if you would have saw where I hit it you would be happy with a bogey on 18.  It could have been a 6 real quick.
I played solid and made a few of the putts, the few of the shorties that I missed earlier this week.  The greens are a little bit slower than what we're used to so take a few different lines and maybe a few little bit less break and just kind of hit them a little bit firmer, but I missed some shorties this week just like we all have but, you know, I hit a few shots close and capitalized on them and tried to eliminate some of the mistakes.
Q. The greens are new.  Are they getting a little better as the week goes on?  I know you guys understand them a little better.  The golf course is set-up a little shorter today.  The greens were fresh this morning, weren't they, and pretty smooth, a little more getable?
JASON GORE: They're getting a little better.  But, they're young.  What are you going do?  They're the same for everybody.  You know, the bunkers I think are the harder parts of the whole thing.  There's a lot of sand in them and you can get some questionable lies but, like I said, they're the same for everybody.
You just got to -- not supposed to hit into them.  They're hazards.  You can complain about the bunkers but they're there to receive bad shots and they're not supposed to be treats.
Q. One of the few weeks on Tour that you're not rooting for the ball to go in the bunker.  It's just the story.
JASON GORE: The rough around the green is beautiful and lush.  Stay out of the bunkers.  At least if it gets in the bunkers, don't plug.  You know, it is what it is.  Everybody is getting the same bad breaks.  Everybody getting the same bad breaks, really bad breaks.
Q. They're the breaks.  Go out there and have some fun.  Hopefully I'll get to talk to you late tomorrow.
JASON GORE: Thanks, my friend.
Q. Good round for you today.  What was working throughout today?
JASON GORE: Golf course played a little bit more playable I think.  I hit it a little bit better, maybe a fewer of the shorter putts I missed earlier.  Maybe I didn't get in my way.  Maybe the stars lined up.  Maybe I had a better breakfast.  I don't know.  It's golf.
I just went out and tried to tee it up on the 1st hole and went out and played and things went my way and played a nice around.  Didn't make many mistakes.  Stayed in the moment and things happen.
Q. Looking at a very crowded leaderboard.  Tell us about your position.  How do you feel about your position going into tomorrow?  Do you feel like being a few shots back you're in a very good spot, especially on this golf course you don't need to go 1very low.
JASON GORE: This golf course brings enough trouble and excitement to not have to worry about what they're doing in front of you.  I won't worry about what they're doing.  I'm going to worry about standing up on the first tee and hitting the tee shot.  Go from there and go play golf.  If I play well and count them up at the end and go see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT