BUICK INVITATIONAL
February 7, 2009
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What did you do? Obviously you made it worse.   
 JASON GORE: Yeah, I don't know what I did.  
  
  Q. What did it happen, this morning?  
 JASON GORE: No, it happened like two days ago. I was playing through it, but I don't know what happened now.  
  
  Q. When did you first feel it, today?  
 JASON GORE: My second shot into 1. I was warming up nicely and it wasn't really hurting. I hit a few drivers on the range and I kind of felt it a little bit. It wasn't anything bad, but I hit that second shot into 1 and it was like, oh, boy.  
  
  Q. Was it particularly cold at that time of day, or was that part of it, maybe just not getting loose?  
 JASON GORE: I don't know what it is. I couldn't tell you.  
  
  Q. You've never had back issues?  
 JASON GORE: Never. That's why I'm being such a wuss about it.  
  
  Q. You said the swing changes maybe had something to do with it?  
 JASON GORE: I don't know. It might just be age.   
  
  Q. Did you consider at all just walking in or getting a ride in?  
 JASON GORE: No, that's not the way to do it.  
  
  Q. Why did you grind it out?  
 JASON GORE: That's what you're supposed to do.  
  
  Q. I know that's what you're supposed to do. I know your situation is a little unique in that you've got to maximize all the at-bats that you're going to get this year, too, and you were in the Top 10 to start the day.   
 JASON GORE: Yeah, I mean, it didn't matter where I was. I just won't do it anymore.  
  
  Q. Did you get some medical help out there?  
 JASON GORE: I'm about to. No, I got a lidocaine patch, and that thing worked great (laughter). That thing worked like a charm. Geez.  
  
  Q. Did you try two of them on two different holes?  
 JASON GORE: The guy wanted to come out and give me a shot. I said, "Get the hell away from me."   
  
  Q. Really?  
 JASON GORE: Yeah. That wasn't going to happen. It's like a football player at halftime, go to the cortisone.  
  
  Q. Have you ever had a cortisone shot?  
 JASON GORE: Not in five years, but yes, I have.  
  
  Q. Where was that?  
 JASON GORE: Elbow.   
  
  Q. Obviously as far as tomorrow you just see how you are kind of thing?  
 JASON GORE: What else am I going to do, go sit in the car for two and a half hours? That's going to do a lot of good.   
  
  Q. Go park on I-5?  
 JASON GORE: Yeah, right.   
  
  Q. You came up to me at 12 and said, "It only hurts at the top of my backswing, at impact and when I walk. Other than that, it's fine." Elaborate on that.   
 JASON GORE: That's pretty much what it is, but it's just shooting down my right side like in my rib cage. It hurts. It hurts on the backswing. When I get to the top I have to flinch a little bit, and at impact it doesn't feel real good, and the follow-through, that hurts, too. Walking up and down hills, too. Other than that, it's fine.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT