BUICK INVITATIONAL
February 6, 2009
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Jason, let's just get some comments on your day. 
 JASON GORE: Just hard-fought, I guess. My back has been kind of wrenching basically for a little while. I don't have a bad back, so that makes me an extra-big weenie. 
 But just kind of fought through. My putter started to work a little bit, and just made some great par saves. It was a difficult day. Nobody is going to run away, except for one guy. Just fought hard all day. 

 Q. Southern California makes it even more special for you to play well? 
 JASON GORE: Always. You know, it's semi-home. It's just comfortable being in southern California. I love it here. I've always kind of played halfway decent here. Hopefully I'll have a good week. 

 Q. How are you health-wise?
 JASON GORE: Health issues, I'm fine. I don't know what's going on with it. I made a small swing change, so I don't know if that's kind of bugging it, but it is what it is. I'll get a little bit of work done, and hopefully it just keeps getting better. 

 Q. Have you had any problems like this at any other point recently?
 JASON GORE: Back problems? No, never had a back problem, so that's why I'm really whining about it. 
 No, I'll live. I mean, it's not a deal-breaker, that's for sure. 

 Q. You and Charley and Paul Goydos on the leaderboard, is there a home field advantage with the poa annua greens? 
 JASON GORE: For sure. I mean, we grew up on this stuff. My local home public golf course had these greens, and they were probably -- they probably weren't quite as good as this. You just kind of have to trust your feel and go with it and understand that you're going to get some bad bounces and you're going to get some great bounces. You know, it's a patience thing out there, try to give yourself enough birdie opportunities to have some putts at it. 

 Q. The usually docile North Course looks like it's playing a little tougher today. 
 JASON GORE: Yeah, I don't know where they put the fairways out there today, but they disappeared for a while. We had some good little spouts of weather in there. It was the same for everybody. Everybody had to play in it, and it is what it is. 

 Q. Do you remember the first time you played here, Junior World? 
 JASON GORE: I never played in Junior World here. I played at Colina Park, but first time I ever played South Course was with a buddy of mine, Ryan Bogan. We played junior golf together. We were in a cart and it was like the first time we ever had a cart, and I had a brand new set of Pings, and it was kind of bouncing as I went along and got stuck somewhere and went underneath the wheel and broke my pitching wedge. That was my fondest memory of Torrey Pines.

 Q. How many times do you think you've played Torrey Pines now?
 JASON GORE: Probably 50 or 60.

 Q. Do you remember when that was?
 JASON GORE: Gosh, I don't know, 1740 (laughter). '86 probably.

 Q. Does it seem different this year compared to other years, like any particular aspect making it more difficult?
 JASON GORE: Yeah, they just took out all the fairways (laughter). It's always played easier. When the weather is bad it's hard to hit fairways out here, and they've lengthened it a little bit and brought in the fairways. It definitely played tough because a lot of holes play crosswind. You've got that one downhill par-3 that plays 165, and it plays 139 and then it plays 200 back into the wind. It's a bunch of guesswork, but I think it's a great golf course.

 Q. Is it tougher when you have rain, then sun? You had varying conditions throughout the day. Would you rather have one set of conditions?
 JASON GORE: It wasn't really all the rain, it was just all the water. There's a quote for you. You'd much rather have sun, obviously, but we have rain gear, we have umbrellas, we had good caddies that need to be octopuses during the day. But you just fight through it and tough it out, I guess. 

 Q. How did you finally overcome the thyroid thing? 
 JASON GORE: Drugs (laughter). No, I'm on medication for the rest of my life. That's not that uncommon. It's just a simple Synthroid I have to take. It's a wake-and-take thing, and I've been great ever since.

 Q. How long does it take for it to actually work?
 JASON GORE: Probably about six weeks before I really started to feel back to 100 percent.

 Q. And that was after several misdiagnoses?
 JASON GORE: Several, from cancer to nothing. You know, I mean, I'm not the only person in the world -- my whole family has had it. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT