BUICK OPEN
July 1, 2007
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STEWART MOORE:  I'd like to welcome Jason Gore to the interview room here at the Buick Open.  Great playing today, missing a possible playoff with your good friend Brian Bateman by one shot.  With your tie for second finish today you pick up 1,867 FedExCup points.  That takes you from 140th to 81st in the season-long standings.  Talk about how much fun it must have been out there today with birdies flying everywhere and you being in the middle of it. 
 JASON GORE:  It was a lot of fun to be back somewhere in contention again where your mouth gets all dry.  That's the cool stuff.  We work very hard to be that uncomfortable.  He's a great champion and he's been a great player for a long, long time, and it's just good to see that he's realized how great he is and hopefully this takes him to another great level. 

 Q.  To come that close on 18, how excruciating was that? 
 JASON GORE:  It wasn't excruciating at all.  I hit a great putt.  I hit it right where I was looking and it didn't go in.  I didn't play enough break.  It's golf.  I did all I could.  I hit it right where I was looking but it didn't go in.  It happens. 

 Q.  Where were you when you heard he won?  At the driving range? 
 JASON GORE:  Yes, I was at the range and you could hear.  We just had to know who was putting.  You could hear the roar from the crowd.  Fantastic crowds out here this week, and I'm ecstatic for him. 

 Q.  You started four off the lead today, and knowing how low people can shoot here, were you surprised at all that you made your way up the leaderboard? 
 JASON GORE:  I thought I had to shoot 7 or 8 under today to have a shot.  It was blustery today.  We had some different wind.  The greens got really hard and it made it very difficult because by late in the day, there are heel prints.  That what happens on poa annua. 
 It was a great tournament.  You had 10 guys who could win at any point.  It was who stepped up and pulled the trophy away, and Brian did it.  Take your hats off to him. 

 Q.  If circumstances were a little different, but you were yourself, a Cinderella story at the U.S. Open, can you talk a little bit about what Brian Bateman can expect, how his life will change and how things will be different for him now that he's a champion? 
 JASON GORE:  Knowing Brian, I don't think it will change that much.  It just gives him a two-year exemption and a spot into a little tournament in Georgia in April.  Brian is pretty level headed.  He'll buy a few new pots and pans and a new guitar and be happy as a clam.  He's a very level-headed guy and a very good, calm person.  I don't think it will do anything to him.  I think the only thing it will do is add confidence and realize what a great player he is. 

 Q.  Guys were all over that leaderboard today.  Do you watch it while you're out there? 
 JASON GORE:  I'll tell you what, whoever says they're not looking is full of it.  You know, you can't, they're everywhere.  Everywhere you look, there's one there.  Even when you try not to look, you're looking off into the sunset over there and there is a leaderboard there.  I looked a little bit.  I knew what the putt was for on the last hole.  I've been lucky to have not so many chances, but I have had chances to make that putt before.  And like I said, I hit a good putt and it didn't go in. I was watching a little bit.  I was peeking back and forth.  Yes, I was.  To make a short story long, yes. 

 Q.  It sounds like you know Brian pretty well.  Can you talk about how long you've known him and what your relationship has been like? 
 JASON GORE:  We're not best of friends, but we're all in one big traveling circus out here.  We're pretty much the same age and we played in college together and he's always been a guy I've always enjoyed hanging around.  I haven't had a chance to hang around him too much, but I would say he's more of a friend than an acquaintance. 

 Q.  How good is it to have so many guys have a chance of winning instead of just one person run away with it? 
 JASON GORE:  Look at last week, you have got Jay Williamson and Hunter Mahan, and that was probably one of the best golf tournaments I ever watched on TV.  And to be involved in this one, this was a great golf tournament, too.  You had a great champion come up and snatch the trophy from a lot of willing participants. 
 I think these last two weeks of golf have been fantastic for the Tour, and it makes great television drama.  It's reality TV at its best. 
 STEWART MOORE:  We appreciate you being a class act and coming in.  Thank you very much.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT