BUICK OPEN
July 1, 2007
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  A 67 today with know bogey.  You put yourself in position. 
 JASON GORE:  I played solid.  I was more happy about not making a bogey.  Every time I don't make a bogey, my caddie owes me a free round of sushi, so he's the big loser of the day. 

 Q.  You almost had one on 16, made a great up and down there at that par 5. 
 JASON GORE:  Yes, I didn't hit a very good shot, just came out of it. 

 Q.  Every now and then the ball knows where to go.  Everything changed for you when you took the attitude of, you know what, I'm just going to go hit it and go get it.  What made the change? 
 JASON GORE:  That's just the way I am.  You hear from me and you don't hear from me, you hear from me and you don't hear from me.  There's just a lot of good golfers out there following behind me, so I'll go watch it on TV, hit a few balls, and keep my fingers crossed there's a playoff. 

 Q.  I think it's because the iPhone was released on Saturday and you knew you had to make extra money so you could pick a couple up. 
 JASON GORE:  My wife and I need two, so that's an extra $1200 right there. 

 Q.  You paid kids $500 to stand in line overnight for you. 
 JASON GORE: Okay, $1700.  I've been reading about these things for three or four years. It's not just a phone.  You won't be able to live without it? 

 Q.  Go relax a little bit and we'll keep our fingers crossed you'll get to be in the playoff, and we'll talk more about the iPhone after that. 
 Talk about that putt on 18, and talk about your round overall. 
 JASON GORE:  I hit a good putt on 18, I just didn't leave enough break.  I looked at it and thought it was a perfect line. 

 Q.  How was your round overall? 
 JASON GORE: I played pretty good coming in, which was kind of key.  I haven't been here in a while, and hopefully if I get into a playoff.  I've done the best I could, just as everybody else. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 JASON GORE:  I don't know, the greens are getting firm out there.  There's some great players out there.  You can't count anybody out, but I've done all I could. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT