JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 16, 2006
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Jason, I know you didn't finish the way you wanted to, but the three eagles in eight holes on that back side.  That is not even normal for a touring pro.  Tell us about that little run?
JASON GORE:  I don't even know.  I was at 9 under par at one point.  I made double on the last hole.  There just wasn't any sand in that bunker.  It happens, you know.  To make three eagles, you know, that was pretty cool.  I hit 4 iron into 10, or something like that, and I made it.  And I knocked it on the green on the par 4 and made about a 15  or 20 footer there.  I hit it three feet on 17.  You know, that is why this golf course is great.  It does yield that; it also can turn around and yield a double on the last hole.
Q.  You said something about the sand in the bunker there.  It looked like you tried to re set your feet?
JASON GORE:  It was a little firmer than what we were used to.  I was trying to get a feel for what the sand was.  I was right.  Looks like all the sand was up in front of the bunker.  So I was on a little bit of down slop and just kind of bounced it.  I made good swing and hit a good shot, just didn't react the way I thought.  That is golf; it happens.
Q.  Take me through 17.  It is our shot of the day?  You'll be glad to know that you got our shot of the day.
JASON GORE:  I hit a pretty good drive there.  I thought the wind was going a little bit right to left.  It actually kind of went left to right.  I drove it through the fairway and hit it down there in the rough where everybody travelled down.  I had 205, I think, to the pin.  Hit 6 iron and landed it just short.  Rolled it up there.  It was nice.
Q.  Jason, you have played pretty well on this Illinois swing, so to speak.  Where is your game right now as compared to where you want it to be?
JASON GORE:  It is getting better.  You know, I think when I don't feel like I am playing good, it is still under par.  Which before, it felt like when I played great, I shot even.  It is just a matter of perspective.  It is getting there.  For some reason I heat up this time of year.  I guess chubby guys from California aren't suppose to like the heat, but apparently I do.  I don't know if it is just biorhythms or what, it just seems to be when everything gets doing good.  Hopefully we will learn from what we did here over the last two weeks, and we'll see what happens.
Q.  You obviously got to be much more of a household name with your great play at the Open at Pinehurst last year.  What is your status on the remaining two majors this year?  Are you going to try to work on trying to get in that?  Are you in?
JASON GORE:  I am in the PGA and in the NEC.  So I don't think now that I will get in the British, which is kind of disappointing.  You know, it happens.  I'm going home for three weeks and spend a little time with the family.  I've been away from them for two weeks; it's been a little too long.  Just go home and take it easy.  Come back out and firing at International.
Q.  For all of us guys looking ahead from Illinois, what do you know about Medina?  Did you have a chance to see it last week while you were up for the Western?
JASON GORE:  I did play it last week.  It is a wonderful golf course.  You have really got to drive it good there.  Hopefully, you know, I started a new driver a couple of weeks ago.  It seems to be working pretty well.  I went over there and played on that Wednesday of the Western; the golf course is just fantastic.  It will provide a great challenge.  I am really looking forward to it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT