JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2006
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Just talking with Todd, not on top of the leaderboard but in nice position.  Do you feel comfortable after the first two rounds?
JASON GORE:  Yeah, I wish I would have finished a little better, but maybe we're going to start off playing good again this weekend.  We'll see what happens.
Q.  With your crowd Friday, do you stand up and take a good strike Saturday and Sunday?  How do you do that?
JASON GORE:  Just keep doing what I've been doing.  I think I only missed two or three greens today, so it's just trying to get some putts to fall.  I hit a lot of good putts today that lipped out.  That's just golf.  We'll see what happens on the weekend.
Q.  We're going to see a front page article in the newspaper of you and Michelle Wie with the bugs now.
JASON GORE:  (Laughing) anyplace my name is in the same sentence as hers is a good spot.
Q.  Do you guys wear the same perfume?
JASON GORE:  I don't know.
Q.  It's been a process getting back into it?
JASON GORE:  Yeah, actually it's been a rough start to the year.  I thought I had to live up to all these expectations and really didn't.  I just had to go out and play good golf and do the good old adage of one at a time.  As boring and cliche as it sounds, I wasn't doing it.  The most important shot you're hitting is the one you're hitting right then and there and don't worry about the score and just do your best right then and there.
Q.  There was an injury issue?
JASON GORE:  Yeah, a little.  It was a pretty good injury, but my arm wasn't going to fall off, so I knew I was okay.

I think the biggest injury was my brain, you know, just lack of confidence.  That's why I played so much, just sometimes you've just got to keep butting your head against the door and maybe it'll fall down.  I think that's really what I've been struggling with is lack of confidence, and hopefully these next two weeks will help that cause.
Q.  What do you think of the golf course?
JASON GORE:  I think the golf course is good.  I'd like to see the sun come out a little bit and maybe dry it out.  But I think the golf course is in great shape.  If we get the greens a little firmer and the fairways a little bit firmer, it could be a lot of fun on the weekend.
Q.  How do you like the area?
JASON GORE:  I love the area.  I've always liked it here.  I think it's a great town.
Q.  You've been here before?
JASON GORE:  Yeah, this is my third year.  I love it.  It's got a nice little Mexican restaurant we go to, which is always important.
Q.  Where is that at?
JASON GORE:  I couldn't even tell you the name.  It's on the corner of John Deere and the road that Best Buy is on.  I know how to get there but I couldn't tell you what it is.  I haven't been there this year yet, but I'm planning on it this afternoon.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT