DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 3, 2005
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk to us about how you feel out here, Jason.
JASON GORE:  I feel good.  I'm starting to get pretty comfortable out here.  Never super comfortable, but I'm working my way into it.  I had a super week last week, and I'm just trying to learn every day.
Q.  In your experience from the Open to this week and last week, having a good week, is getting too comfortable a good thing or a bad thing?
JASON GORE:  I don't think you ever want to get too comfortable because then you just, you know, rest on your laurels.  So I'm just going to try to keep getting better, and that's all I'm trying to do right now.
Q.  Talk about your round today; pretty conducive course for scoring today?
JASON GORE:  It is.  The wind is actually blowing in a good direction, if there is such a thing.  The greens out here are perfect.  After 156 guys go through, the greens get a little bit beat up, but that would happen to concrete.  The greens are rolling fantastic.
Q.  As you take a look at the leaderboard right now, in terms of where you are, you're right in the mix going into the weekend.  Talk about being in a position to do well this week.
JASON GORE:  Well, I've just got to try to keep doing what I'm doing.  Like I said before, as boring and as cliche as it is, you just have to go out and play one at a time.  The first tee ball on Thursday is just as important as the last putt on Sunday.  They all count as one, and I'm trying to keep that in perspective.
Q.  This is your first exposure to the Boston area, sports fans, talk about your reception.
JASON GORE:  The Boston fans have been awesome.  I know this is a huge sports town, and I'm a big Red Sox fan.  I grew up as a dodger fan, and I learned to hate the Yankees, and I became a Red Sox fan after that.  I love it here.  It's beautiful.
Q.  You had five birdies on the front, did you feel like you let some go on the back?
JASON GORE:  Yes, I got off to a really good start and that's what you need it do out here.  But I 3 putted 11.  I kind of threw up on myself a little bit.  I hit 1 over the green and I didn't get up and down, but that kind of stuff happens, you know.

Finishing off with a birdie is a good thing, and I'm just going to try to keep it going for tomorrow.
Q.  What is your schedule for the rest of the year?
JASON GORE:  I'm going to play Vancouver next week, 84 Lumber the week after that, and then I'm going to go play a Nationwide Tour event in Boise.  I'm going to play Greensboro and then I'm going to take a week off.
Q.  Between the Open and now, what are the positives that have happened to you?
JASON GORE:  Well, it's so boring and cliche, it's not some magic thing, and I'm not really getting ahead of myself.  I'm just trying to be patient and have my concentration for every shot.  That's really the only thing I have control over and I think it's just, you know, put it all many perspective.
Q.  How is your popularity?  Would people know who Jason Gore was last year?
JASON GORE:  No.  And it's wonderful, everyone has been so supportive and great.  There's a lot of good fans.
Q.  Jeff Brehaut talked earlier about times when he was coming up that he wished he would get better or get worse.  So he could be done with the mini tours.  Have you ever had a point like that?
JASON GORE:  Every day.  (Laughing).  You know, golf will do that.  It's a brutal time, six months ago I was ready to hang it up, and all of the sudden I realize it wasn't a life or death thing.  If I played a bad round, I thought I was a bad person, and it doesn't work like that.  It's just a job.  Once I realized that, I was able to go ahead and swing away and hit good shots and it got better all of a sudden.
Q.  Was there something that allowed you to get to that thought?
JASON GORE:  I just got out of my own way, realizing that shots, individual shots, weren't do or die situations.  I learned a lot about that at the last round at the Open from Retief Goosen.  Here is a guy who is defending champion and was having a bad day, and he walked off the golf course with his head high like the champion that he is.  You know, nobody died.  Nobody lost a finger on the golf course.  You know, you look down in Louisiana and you realize that life could be a lot worse.  You know, we get to play a game for a living, so it's pretty cool.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT