CIMB CLASSIC
October 29, 2015
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So, great start to the tournament.  7-under par.  You got to be --  
JASON GORE: 6.   
 Q.  What happened on 18?  
JASON GORE: I 3-putted the last hole.   
 Q.  Okay.  
JASON GORE: I hit it and then I guess I hit it too hard.  But it was going straight in the middle and hit the back edge and bounced up and landed -- oh well, I made some other ones, so.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the eagle on the front?  
JASON GORE: Yeah, I hit a good drive.  It wasn't like centering drive of the day, so I was just kind of like trying to get it out there and just get it in play.   
And I hit a good drive and hit a great 3-iron and made like a 20-footer.  Just -- it was just below the hole, right in the middle of the green and just hit a good putt.   
 Q.  So, you weren't -- you weren't quite necessarily on today off the tee?  
JASON GORE: No, I mean I hit a bunch of fairways, but I wasn't like smashing drivers.  It was just one of those day where, all right, it's hot, I'm just going to get this sucker going forward.   
But I swung it fine.  It just wasn't quite the all cylinders.   
 Q.  Right.  And then coming over here, this is your first time --  
JASON GORE: First time.   
 Q.  To Malaysia.  What's the importance of getting off to a good start with these first few events before we start to next season?  
JASON GORE: I don't know.  I've never done it before.  I've never been a guy that gets off to a good start.  I always like, I guess, I have a flair for the dramatics at the end.   
But it is important.  It's important to come over here and just get off to a good start and, you know, because trying to play catch-up sucks.   
So just try to get off to a good start and that way you can kind of free it up and have some fun.   
 Q.  And what's your key this week to play this golf course?  
JASON GORE: Sweat management.  That's all I'm doing.  I'm just trying to keep cool, keep hydrated.   
I mean this is not -- this is a little different for a chubby kid from California.  So I'm used to dry weather.  But, no, just trying to stay dry and keep the towels going and keep the water in and keep going.   
 Q.  How does your attitude stay so good, like with the conditions the way they are and that?  
JASON GORE: The conditions are perfect.  It's just, you know what, the good news is I feel good and I'm strong.   
So, you know, I'm old and fat, but I still got some -- I still got some strength in there.  So I'm not going to -- I shouldn't fade away.  I just got to manage myself and I mean, everybody's sweating, everybody's dying, and it's -- I think you just can't live and die by every shot.  You just move on.   
I just missed a 3-footer there and, you know, so be it.  It's going to happen.  You can't just go, oh, golf, you would be exhausted by the end of the day of living and dying by every shot.  So just keep moving forward.   
 Q.  Is this the first time that you're playing outside China and Asia?  
JASON GORE: Yes.  First time over in Asia, yes, sir.   
 Q.  What do you think so far?  
JASON GORE: I love it.  I think it's great.  It's -- we're really close to the equator.  It's warm, but I like it.  It's fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT