FRYS.COM OPEN
October 15, 2015
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Round of 67.  How perfect were the conditions out there today?
JASON GORE: They didn't suck, I guess.  Can I say that?  They were perfect.  It was like four degrees too warm, but, no, it was perfect.
It was beautiful out.  No wind.  Perfect greens.  Perfect fairways.  It was there for the taking.
Q. How is the golf course responding?  Obviously took advantage of it today.
JASON GORE: Yeah, golf course is perfect.  The pins, you know, there are a few quirky ones, we'll say.  That's the golf course's defense.  Yeah, it's out there.  There are some good rounds to be played.
Q. Obviously finished the season strong last year through the FedExCup playoffs.  Is this kind of a carryover to how you ended the year?
JASON GORE: I think I just realize that I'm still a good golfer.  I think being away from the TOUR for that long, when I got back here I maybe kind of doubted I belonged here.
Seeing that, playing well there, the good feel at Wyndham, just kind of like gave me the, Oh, yeah, I can still do this.
So, yeah, that and I worked my butt off in the five weeks.  When I was home, our first week -- I got booted out of Deutsche Bank.  After that, Drew came home, my coach, and Tuesday morning we were on the range.
We worked about ten hours day for the whole week he was home.  He went to Chicago and I just kept at it.  Made a few little tweaks that I've been trying to work on forever.  Out here you can't go into a swing change, All right Tuesday you're going to do this and then it's going to work.  It doesn't work.
But finally had time to sit there and work on a few things.  I took one day off.  Only reason I did that was it was my daughter's birthday.  We had to go to the American Girl doll store.
That's not even a day off.
Q. Yeah, that's not.
JASON GORE: Yeah, I worked the whole time.  Figured my off-season is in December.
Q. Talked to you the other day.  Sounds like you played or practiced almost every day.
JASON GORE: Yeah, I did.  Just whatever happened at Wyndham just kind of whetted the palate.  I tried to run with that and see if I can take that a little bit of confidence I got and get better.
Q. Yeah, most guys wanted to put the clubs away for at least a week or two weeks depending on how short or long it was for them.
JASON GORE: Yeah, they probably had good years.
No, my year was just okay up until that point.  I mean, I kind of salvaged -- if the guy would've played on his correct tour I would've been holding a trophy.
I'm kidding.  I'm kidding.
Q. Let me tweet that.  That's good.  Hey, Davis.
JASON GORE: Hey, Davis, go play your own tour.  No just started a little bit of a fire.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT