WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2015
Jason Gore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Jason Gore, I know you come up one shot short of victory but wow, you played so well. You proved so much to all the people that watched you this week. It was really just a tremendous week all the way around. Just coming up short of the winner's circle.  
JASON GORE: You know what? I came here looking for a job next year and maybe next week I'll aim to win, set a goal to win instead of just keeping my job.   
It was a great week. I didn't hit my irons very well. I had so many opportunities today. You know what, I played good golf. That's what you have to do. It was fun. It was fun. Your lower extremities tightened a little bit.  
   
 Q. The solo 2nd as you said you're moving, you're inside the 125 and FedExCup Playoffs but you went bogey, bogey on the back-9 and you came to the par 5 15th and you just electrified that crowd. Take us through that.  
JASON GORE: I hit a great drive there. I was -- actually Kevin Harvin's manager, Josh Jones is out here and talking like Kevin is in P2 last night. Long story.  
   
 Q. Go ahead.  
JASON GORE: Second place last night and tried to get up on who was leading, spins him out. I looked at Josh, "Is it time to spin him out?"   
I didn't know it was going to be me spinning out. Maybe we had a little time there with Jonas had a little bad luck there on 15. Maybe I got a little time to gather myself. I hit a great drive and great 5-iron in there. Had plenty of time to read the putt. Just read it well and hit a great putt.  
   
 Q. You could tell this is emotional for you. Tell me about where your confidence goes after a performance like this.  
JASON GORE: I don't think I've ever really been short of confidence.  
   
 Q. Nice. Very honest.  
JASON GORE: You have to. You're going to get run over out here. You have to believe in yourself. You have to. I'm looking forward to next week. I still feel something really good is coming. Go work on a few of my iron swings. I drove it okay. Few wayward ones but, to be honest with you, man, I was nervous. I was coughing fur balls and pooping pellets. I shouldn't say that.  
   
 Q. That's all right.   
JASON GORE: I said poop. I haven't been there in a long time. Being able to do some things and putting is good.  
   
 Q. Jason, first off, final round for you first and foremost how do you feel to be in the hunt on a Sunday afternoon?  
JASON GORE: It was awful. I was nervous. We weren't just playing for a golf tournament. We were playing for a job next year. Yeah, as excited as I was to be there I was ready for it to end. You know, came here this week to try to keep my job for next year and like I told them, maybe I'll set my goals a little higher.   
So, I did that and try to set it to win sooner or later. It was a hard day. Jonas and I were playing for our jobs so it was a little stressful. We both got it done and it was --  
Q.Kind of already touched on it, honestly at this point, how much of a relief is it for you to be moving on to next week?  
JASON GORE: I got no clothes to wear. I got to go do laundry right now. I have no shirts or nothing. I had a 7:00 flight tonight. I was going home and getting ready for the Web.com Finals. It's pretty relieving. Go back to the room and turn-off the phone and chill-out.  
   
 Q. Do you feel like your game is in a great spot?  
JASON GORE: I feel like I'm playing well. I don't feel like I'm in a great spot. I didn't hit it great today. Usually that's why -- that shot right there I think I'm 2nd or 3rd on Tour in proximity from that distance and to kind of hit that kind of shot, little disappointing. You know, hats off to Davis. 51 years old. He was my idol growing up. He's a stud. Plain old golf stud.  
   
 Q. When you hit that putt did you think it had a chance?  
JASON GORE: It looked like it bounced a few times in the middle. I was trying to make it but I was also trying not to do the other. So, I was just glad to see it up there like that.  
   
 Q. When you came here what were your goals for the week? Did you get what you wanted out of this week?  
JASON GORE: You know, obviously when I got -- I woke up this morning my goal, my thoughts changed a little bit but, yeah, yeah. I got a job, I moved way up on the FedExCup Points list and I get to go play golf again next week.  
   
 Q. Tell me about the emotions on the eagle on 15 to kind of get yourself back there. You had to wait a little while for the putt.  
JASON GORE: It was unfortunate for Jonas. Got to take a breather there, curse a few words with Feherty over there. It was good. But -- he called me a few funky names. Keep it at that. It was a good little breather. I got a little bit of water and just we had plenty of time to read the putt and Scotty and I read it perfectly and went right in the middle.  
   
 Q. Did you have any idea playing 18 what the scenario was as far as keeping that job and finishing in the Top 125?  
JASON GORE: I didn't know but I had a pretty good clue. I knew that I had to be P2 or solo 2nd to be clear. I didn't see how many guys were whatever they were, 15 but if I 3-putted that that was bad news, wasn't it?  
   
 Q. Yes. Does that change your mindset? You're thinking about winning the tournament.  
JASON GORE: I was trying to make a putt. I was trying to make a putt. I was trying to make it but I was also trying not to do the other thing. When I saw it got up there within a gimme, I was pretty happy.  
   
 Q. What were the crowds like that out there? You were following Tiger's group. It was a huge gallery.  
JASON GORE: It was pretty serene. You heard a couple roars. We heard the big roar on 3, Scott Brown made the Hole-In-One. You heard that. That was vintage Tiger roar. So, you don't know.   
It was relatively quiet out there. Lot of people yelled my name. Apparently I got Gore Baby now. That's my new nickname. I don't look like a baby at all.  
   
 Q. You looked like a baby when you were a baby.  
JASON GORE: I don't know about that, either.  
   
 Q. Can you put this in context as far as how it gives you confidence going forward when you kept talking yesterday about being close?  
JASON GORE: I didn't play great but I golfed well, if that makes sense. I didn't really hit very good iron shots which is usually my thing. But I played well. I putted great which is relatively not my forte so my golf was really nice. I still think there's a lot of room for improvement, obviously, iron play is usually my thing, but hitting good shots close.  
Yeah, it just reminds me that they're not going to get rid of me that easy out here even though I try, even though I try to get rid of myself. Bad virus or something. Crabs. Sorry.  
   
 Q. How did everything go? You had a bad -- missed two birdies opportunities on 8 and 18. Especially 18 that was probably hard.  
JASON GORE: You know what, I hit a great putt. For Davis Love to win this golf tournament it's pretty awesome. At 51 years old he's a golf stud. I tried to run him down. I didn't hit a very good iron shot in there.   
But, you know, said over there my goal for this week was to keep a job for next year and maybe I should set my goals a little higher. So, I'm happy. I'm very happy for Davis. He's Ryder Cup Captain and great for golf and to win in North Carolina for him. So, it's special.  
   
 Q. You got 2nd. Got to feel good about that.  
JASON GORE: From where I've been this year, yes. Especially doing it this week being back up against the wall and I'm just glad I could go to The Playoffs, go have some fun out there.  
   
 Q. Talk about this tournament and how cool it was.  
JASON GORE: I'm sorry what was the question?  
   
 Q. Talking about playing this weekend and going into the tournament.   
JASON GORE: This tournament is so great. The support we get from Wyndham is amazing, especially sign a ten year extension. To come to a great golf course and come to a great city and great fans, it's just -- this is a very special place and just happens to be basically the fifth playoff event.   
Lot of guys puckering up coming down the stretch here but what a great week of golf for Greensboro and great weather. A phenomenal place to do it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT