THE QUINN DIRECT BRITISH MASTERS
September 20, 2007
Jarmo Sandelin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GRAEME HAMLETT:  You were second here last year; coming back has given you a spring in your step.   
 JARMO SANDELIN:  Yeah, obviously this season has been back to the struggling part.  Last year was a little back-up year for me compared to where I've been.   
 So, it was nice to start off with a 65.  I mean, obviously last year, finishing second and one shot from the playoff, I felt that I had a really good chance to be at least in the playoffs.  So to start with a 65 today, it's fantastic.   
 GRAEME HAMLETT:  Can you run through the details, please.   
 JARMO SANDELIN:  1, 3-wood, 9-iron, a putt from three metres.   
 2, 3-wood on the second, pitching wedge, putt from three metres.   
 10, 5-iron, sand wedge to three metres.   
 11, driver, 8-iron, tap-in.   
 13, driver, lob-wedge, tap-in.   
 17, driver, 3-wood, 2-putt from 20 metres.   
 18, driver, 2-iron to nine metres.   
 GRAEME HAMLETT:  You've had a few weeks off recently, have you worked on anything in that time?   
 JARMO SANDELIN:  To be honest, last Thursday afternoon, I couldn't walk.  I had a big pain, back pain.  I was in bed for Thursday night, Friday, Saturday, Sunday.  Something had happened with my back, and I had a really good treatment for obviously Friday, Saturday, Sunday.   
 And the strange thing is that now when I go to the gym or just standing up, I'm like, what happened, what happened last week?  Last week at this time, I couldn't walk.  And so I haven't done that much, and maybe that has been good; to appreciate to be healthy, it's amazing.  Something really went wrong with my back.  I don't know what it was.  But I'm here, I'm fit, I'm happy for the 65, I played really good, and yeah.   
  
  Q.  Has that ever happened before?   
 JARMO SANDELIN:  No.  15 years ago I used to have lower back problems, but I haven't had that.  And obviously, I've been working out quite hard, doing a lot of crunches.  I think I've been working out too much.  I don't know, the muscles in the lower back just cramped so hard so that probably led to a nerve pushing and getting stuck. Today it feels like I never had it.   
  
  Q.  What kind of treatment did you have?   
 JARMO SANDELIN:  It was with a physiotherapist in Sweden, Daniel Lindmark, he's been with me -- he knows me for six, seven years, so he knows my back.   
  
  Q.  Did he have a suggestion as to why it happened?   
 JARMO SANDELIN:  No.  He just said that my muscles in my lower back was cramping really, cramping.   
 It's enough if you -- yeah, I don't know.  I've never been injured more or less, never - oh no - I shouldn't say that!   
 GRAEME HAMLETT:  And happy to have Pete Coleman on the bag, as well.   
 JARMO SANDELIN:  Yeah, I've been looking to have him on the bag.  He's been working with other guys and obviously was available this week, so he knows what golf is all about, and I trust him a lot with the club selection.  So I feel quite comfortable out there.  So hopefully we can continue this great feeling.   
  
  Q.  How did you get him out of retirement?   
 JARMO SANDELIN:  I don't know. He's semi-retired. I'm glad he hasn't retired yet.  I've been trying for a while. He said to me he was available for this week - but he is so great. He should have a caddie school.  He knows this stuff.  He's spot-on.   
 Obviously when things go right, he's not hitting the ball, but he's really solid and clubs me right. So I'm trying to keep the same focus of today and we'll see where it goes.   
  
  Q. Have you signed him up for any period? Who is he with next?   
 JARMO SANDELIN:  I think he's with Cambo at the Dunhill, so I only have him for this week.   
 I asked him how old he was.  He's 66 years old.  He's a superman; Supercaddie.   
 And my wife is due next week, so I don't want to hear any phone calls (laughing) over the next few days.  What a nightmare; "It's coming, you'd better come back here!"  So I have to turn off the phones.   
  
  Q.  This is your second child?   
 JARMO SANDELIN:  No, third.  I have two boys.  It would be nice for a girl.  Most importantly is it's healthy and everything goes well.   
  
GRAEME HAMLETT:  What do you need to do to retain your card?  You've had 13 missed cuts, so do you have an end of season target you've set?   
 JARMO SANDELIN:  I don't know, I don't know.  I've been in this situation obviously a few times now over the last four or five years, so I don't even think about that.  I have to think about just trying to hit good golf shots, that's it, and see where destiny takes me.   
 GRAEME HAMLETT:  Well, you've done that today and hopefully it'll continue for the rest of the week. Thanks very much for coming in and good luck the rest of the week.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT