WNBA ALL-STAR GAME
July 9, 2005
Anne Donovan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANN DONOVAN:  You know, what fun that is.  You've got the best players in the world out there competing.  You've got a lot of points on the board.  You've got rebounds, you've got a dunk.  What more do you want?  Just a great experience.  Glad to have been a part of it.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about Sheryl this year, how she's bounced back after last year? 
 
ANN DONOVAN:  You know, I think it's the power of being healthy for Sheryl Swoopes.  She really played through injuries last year and was not 100%, really clear and all of us who knew Sheryl knew she was playing in a lot of the pain last year.  Just rested her body and has come back in a renewed spirits.  It's nice to see her game back to the level it is and be an MVP in this game.  It's really a tribute to the work she's put in.  
 
Q.  Can you tell us the progress of Sue Bird, she's had her up and downs so far this season, and it looked like she performed very well out on the court today?
 
ANN DONOVAN:  Sue's been great.  She got to us late from Russia, so she came to training camp late but I was seeing the best basketball I've seen her play, defensively, offensively, running the team, great leadership and defending full court.  The break to her face and her nose has set her back, out for us, two weeks four games, getting her conditioning back, getting her confidence back.  But tonight it was, it was nice to see her out there having fun.  
 
Q.  Can you just talk about Diana's playfulness on the court today?  It seemed like she just got everybody, not only involved, but making sure everyone had a good time. 
 
ANN DONOVAN:  That is true.  That is the power of Diana Taurasi, a player from my generation.  I liken her to be Cheryl Miller, the same dynamic personality that gets everybody into the game.  Yesterday at practice, it was about the same thing, getting the fans involved and having fun and enjoying the moment.  You know, Diana, like everybody else that's playing in this game has their own pressures at home, their own seasons to worry about, but everybody left their stress and came here to Connecticut to enjoy this experience and certainly Diana led the way there.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT