NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v GIANTS
October 10, 2010
Derek Lowe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Derek Lowe.  
  
  Q. Derek, Bobby said that you were politicking for Game 4 before there would even be a Game 4.   
 DEREK LOWE: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Why was it so important to you to get that start?   
 DEREK LOWE: I just wanted to make -- I think it was the day before we went to San Francisco, I just wanted to make him aware that it was an option.   
 I know they threw around a couple scenarios, and I just wanted to let him know that it wouldn't be a problem. And then they let me know, I think it was two days ago during batting practice, that I would end up pitching Game 4.  
  
  Q. What is it that has allowed you to be successful on short rest in the past? Are you more comfortable with just experience, or is it just --  
 DEREK LOWE: No, I think I really believe it has to do with a consistent workout program all year long. It starts in November like everybody else, but I try to stay consistent, work as hard as you possibly can to make these chances available.   
 I think if I didn't do what I have done over my career, I wouldn't be able to do it. Your body wouldn't be able to bounce back. So I think it has to do with more of the work you put in off the field that allows your body to bounce back.  
  
  Q. How do you analyze your performance in Game 1?   
 DEREK LOWE: I think we looked at a lot of video of their offense, and I think we came up with a really good game plan. We didn't deviate as far as what we'll do tomorrow night. We'll probably make a few adjustments, but this probably isn't the place to tell everyone about it.   
 But I think all in all what we thought was going to happen for the most part did. But it was one of those games where you look at it and the walks are probably a little bit higher, but based on how the game was going, you don't set up for every pitch like it was going to be your last. So there wasn't any room for error.   
 So hopefully tomorrow I can get maybe a few early runs and cut the walks down.  
  
  Q. It's a difference of just a couple days here, but does it benefit you that you had to game plan for the Nationals twice in the span of three starts? Just, you know, two or three weeks ago? In other words, facing a team that quickly?   
 DEREK LOWE: Yeah, I definitely think so. I've been fortunate all year long to have Huddy pitch in front of me. We're very similar. So you'll have my game, Game 1, be able to watch today, and then you'll be able to really have a good feel for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Can you look back at the first time that you pitched on short rest? Do you remember that time it feeling any different or being any kind of different thing that you had to then subsequently learn how to handle it to do it again?   
 DEREK LOWE: I think this time of year you're so -- adrenaline kicks in. You can pitch -- I'll make myself available for Game 5 if there's one. You know, we've done it before. You can't really explain how your body's able to bounce back with adrenaline, with knowing what's on the line.   
 During the season you probably couldn't continue to do this, but I've been fortunate to be on a lot of playoff teams and have situations present itself to pitch on short rest. I've always loved this time of year. You'd rather be the guy out there failing than not trying.  
  
  Q. You went on two days' rest in the ALCS, right?   
 DEREK LOWE: Yeah.  
  
  Q. So this is kind of not that big a deal to you?   
 DEREK LOWE: Again, it's the same. Seems like a Game 7. You're going to pitch on two day's rest or not pitch. That was the option. And I think, like I said before, I'd rather go out there than not.   
 No matter what happens tomorrow, it's not because you're on three days' rest or seven days' rest, if you execute your pitches and pitch according to the game plan that you come up with before the game.  
  
  Q. What do you remember about that game going on two days' rest? Do you think with the age and just a few more years on, that you could actually do it now? Would you offer to do that?   
 DEREK LOWE: I will. Especially with Billy going down, maybe I can get my 86th save.   
 The New York game was different because we scored so many runs so early. I think that definitely made it a lot easier.   
 But, again, I'm going to keep saying the same thing. This time of year your body responds better than it ever does during the season because of adrenaline, excitement of the games, and so it's something that you set your mind to in November that this is what you want to do. You have a workout program all year long, not just to get you through the regular season, but to get you through the World Series.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT