NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
May 29, 2019
Jonas Jerebko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Have your teammates talked about what media day is and how much of a circus this has been sometimes?  
JONAS JEREBKO: It's been a circus all year.  So it's not really different.  I'm really just looking forward to Game 1 and take it one game at a time.  This just comes with it.  I've done media all year.  There might be a few more cameras and a few more people, but that's it.   
 Q.  Talk about Toronto.  You've seen them a couple times in the regular season.  What are your initial impressions going in The Finals?  
JONAS JEREBKO: They have had a great year.  Obviously they're in The Finals, coming out of the East.  They have got a great team, great coach.  So it's going to be tough, but we're tough to beat too.   
It's going to be a great series.  Looking forward to it.  Looking forward to getting out there and battling against them.  We're coming in with a plan and we're going to execute it and take it one game at a time.   
 Q.  Does this seem like a mirror of you guys, where they're like selfless, too, always looking to go from good to great, to pass up a good shot to get a great shot?  
JONAS JEREBKO: Yeah, I feel like the last few years everybody is trying to play like Golden State and mirror them.  That is ball movement.  Just like I said, they played great all year.  They're a tough team.  They move the ball well.  They're great in transition.  Have a good defense.  Just looking forward to getting out there.   
 Q.  How long have you been dreaming about getting to this stage?  
JONAS JEREBKO: NBA Finals, ever since I was a kid it's been the goal of my life.  So to be here now -- we have been off for 10 days since the last game, so I just want it to be tomorrow already.  I want to get going.  It's one game at a time, and all I'm looking forward to is tomorrow.   
 Q.  This is the first NBA Finals outside the United States.  What does this say about the global nature of the game and how it's evolved?  
JONAS JEREBKO: Yeah, it's awesome to be here in Canada.  I don't know the percentage of people in Canada who watched that last game, but I bet you it will be more tomorrow.  And it's just awesome.  Basketball is getting bigger all over the world, and it's the best sport in the world.  We are just trying to promote it as much as we can in the NBA.  A lot of international players on the floor and on the other team in Toronto, and then myself trying to promote it back in Europe.   
It's just awesome to see basketball grow as much as it has in the last 10 years I've been in the league.  So to be here in The Finals is great.   
 Q.  What's it like the support you've received from back home?  
JONAS JEREBKO: Yeah, they want to talk to me now when it's The Finals, but I'm always trying to promote basketball back home in Sweden.  It's also growing.  Maybe at a slower pace than other countries, but I feel the support at home.  It's The Finals now so now they're going to come around, hopefully.   
 Q.  When you consider your journey, a rookie with the Pistons and now you're here playing for a championship.  Do you pinch yourself in these moments, or what goes through your mind when this happens to you?  
JONAS JEREBKO: This is what you play for.  This is why you put in all the hours in the offseason.  This is why you're late in the gym or get up early in the morning to go for a run or whatever it might be.  These are the moments you are trying to get to.  I'm really just trying to take it one game at a time, looking forward to tomorrow.  But, yeah, it's been a lifelong dream to be in The Finals.   
So to finally be here and just get my body and my mind ready and trying to block out the outside noise and just concentrate on the game tomorrow.   
 Q.  You guys won the last 12 Game 1s, but rarely are you on the road.  What's it going to take to come into this environment and get a win?  
JONAS JEREBKO: I feel like we play well on the road.  We played well on the road all year.  I'm not really worried about starting at home or on the road.  Our mindset is going to be the same.  We're going to try to execute our game plan and just go out there and play our game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT