GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 24, 2018
Jonas Jerebko
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was your summer, and how are you feeling right now day one and a new setting, how has your transition gone?
JONAS JEREBKO: It's going good.  I mean, they're making it easy on me.  We've got a great team with a great staff and everybody's been really friendly.  So myself, I had a great summer.  Worked out a couple days, couple times a day.  And just really concentrating on my body and my shot and myself and just coming in healthy and coming in in shape.
So I feel really good.  But like I said, they've been really helpful, the team, and just everything's been great.  So I'm happy to be here.
Q. Coming to a team that's had this much success and especially this much success last year, how do you try to temper your own expectations about how much you'll play and what sort of impact you'll make?
JONAS JEREBKO: I've been in this situation before.  So I know I'm coming into a team with five All-Stars, been in the Finals four years straight.  And I know I'm coming in to the best team in the world.  But like I said, I'm very confident in my abilities and I'm going to be ready when my number's called.
If that's the 3 position, 4 position, 5 position, whatever it might be, I'm going to be ready for it.  I feel like I'm playing really good basketball and this is a team that plays the way I want to play.  It's team-first basketball.  Find the open man, knock down shots.  And I got great players around me and that's only going to make me better.  So looking forward to it.
Q. Steve talked about how you're this really good role player for them and I'm just curious you've been a role player on other teams.  How do you kind of figure out what your role is; is that something you talk with the coaches about or is it just more of a feel once you start playing with these guys?
JONAS JEREBKO: It's probably a feel once I start playing.  But like I said, I'm a team-first, dive for loose ball, defense, rebounds, whatever I need to do to be on the court and stay on the court, I'm going to do.  I'm not worried about my shots.  I'm not worried about any of that.  I'm going to set screens to get Klay and Steph open.  Whatever it might take to stay on the court I'm going to do.
So I put in the work this summer to come in ready and just be prepared for whatever I need to do.
Q. This team, though, when they bring you in, they want you to shoot.  They don't want you to give up open looks, that's been the history the last four, five years, are you excited about that?
JONAS JEREBKO: Very.  I'm shooting the ball well.  I've been shooting the ball well for a few years now.  This summer has just been shooting a lot.  A lot of 3s.  I'm shooting with confidence.  So, yeah, if they want to leave me open I'm going to make them pay.  But like I said, I'm a team-first guy.  If I get the open shots, I'm going to shoot them.  If somebody else comes out and I'll give it to somebody else to shoot it.
But like I said, I'm going to be definitely ready to shoot and I feel really confident in my shot.  I'm knocking it down.  So I just want to get started.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT