STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2016
Christian McCaffery
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Oregon State - 15, Stanford - 26
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Christian McCaffrey.
Q. (Question regarding rushing.)
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: It went well.  I go where the O-line goes.  They did a fantastic job today of opening up holes, allowing our guys to find creases, make a play with the ball in our hands.
Q. (No microphone.)
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: It makes my job really easy.  It's just something that we use to open up our offense.  We do a good job doing it.  He's such a play-maker, one of the best players I've ever played with.  Whenever you can get the ball in his hands in space, he can do a lot of really special things with it.  Any time we can really get the ball in his hands, have both of us on the field at the same time, it can really be an explosive play.
Q. (No microphone.)
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Definitely.  We always want to run the ball that well and just be efficient and win with the negative plays, continue to grind throughout the entire game.
Once again, the offensive line, the fullbacks, the receivers downfield did such an amazing job.  As runners, like I said, we go as the blockers go.  That's a reflection of the blockers, for sure.
Definitely fun to play.
Q. (Question regarding grinding.)
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: It hasn't been exactly how we wanted this season to go.  The best part about college football is you have another game the next week.  We own up to that.  We can only control what we control.  If we lose, if we win, we get back to the drawing board on Monday and do all we know.  That's work.
Q. What did you think of the Keller's run?  Broke a couple of tackles on it.
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: That was an awesome play.  Actually a botched play that he made something happen.  Watching him do his thing, just be a play-maker, be a ball player, that's what we love to see, especially in a young guy in his second start.  Watching him do what he does is really cool.
Q. Coach says he doesn't want to take anything away from your athleticism, but he has misgivings about your vaulting a tackler.  That's come up before, hasn't it?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Yeah.  Instinct takes over sometimes.  I don't know what I was thinking.  Tried it.  Didn't work.
Q. You landed on your head this time.
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: That's correct, yeah (laughter).
A lot of times it's those hard-impact plays that you think are really bad that don't hurt.  Got right back up.
Q. Are you 100% healthy right now?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: I feel really good.  Feel really good.
Q. On the last play from the one yard line, did you think you were over?
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: I thought I was over, yeah.  We need some horizontal cameras.  I was talking to the ref after.  You guys don't have any horizontal cameras.  If anyone from Stanford is listening to this, we need to put some cameras on the pylons so we could see it.  Defense did a great job of holding them on the next drive.
Q. (No microphone.)
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: I think you got to get the jump first, otherwise the landing doesn't happen, or the landing happens on a body part you don't want it to happen on.
Like I said, instinct takes over.  I'm just out there playing the game.  Tried to make something happen, didn't work.  That's football.  Sometimes you're going to land the wrong way.
Q. (No microphone.)
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: It's extremely important, knowing that we can continue.  I keep using the term 'grind'.  Knowing that we can run the ball efficiently, get first down after first down, milk the clock out.
Still at the end of the day we have a lot of things we have to work on.  We got to finish the ball in the end zone.  Too many field goals.  Got to do a better job helping the defense out, putting the ball in the box.
Q. (No microphone.)
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Awesome.  Had an unbelievable week of practice.  Showed some awesome things today.  Like I said, we'll watch the film this week and see what we can change.  But he did an awesome job.  Leadership is great.  Just doing a great job in the huddle guiding us to where we need to be.
Q. (No microphone.)
CHRISTIAN McCAFFREY: Yeah, that offensive line really came together today.  It was really fun to run behind.  Makes my job easy, makes Bryce's job easy.  Whoever is carrying the football, makes our job easy.  When they come together like that, it's a really powerful thing.
Like I said, we go as they go.  I think the statistics show today they did an unbelievable job in doing their part.
Thank you, guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT