LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 25, 2020
Paul George
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Clippers 154, Mavericks 111
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Paul.
Q. 35 points today.  What was the mentality difference for you today versus the last three games?
PAUL GEORGE:   I just got into a different place.  Basically I just walked into a different place.  I don't want to go into the details, but I got into a different place, a different mentality, different mindset, found myself, (indiscernible) myself.
Q. You were incredibly candid in the postgame interview.  You said you were in a dark place, struggled with that in the bubble, the environment of having no fans to energize you.  Talk about what you meant by being in a dark place, how difficult these last three games were for you.
PAUL GEORGE:   It was just a little bit of everything.  I underestimated mental health, honestly.  I had anxiety, a little bit of depression.  Just being locked in here.  I just wasn't there.  I checked out.  Games 2, 3, 4, I felt like I wasn't there.
But shout out to the people that was in my corner, people that gave me the words.  They helped big-time about getting me right back in great spirits.  Can't thank them enough.
Q. Doc was saying the guys were knocking on your door, you and he had a good talk.  Talk about the support that came within the team.
PAUL GEORGE:   Yeah, I mean, everybody reached out, whether it was in person, through a text.  All of my guys showed up for me.  They helped me.  They were there when I needed them.  I'm indebted to this team.  The energy, the synergy, the camaraderie, the brotherhood.  I can't thank this squad enough.
Q. Your reaction to the video?  Doc got emotional talking about it.  Have you talked about it as a team?  Some players say they feel helpless right now.
PAUL GEORGE:   I actually just saw the video maybe a couple seconds ago.  Happened to be on social media.  I just saw the video now.
It's sad.  You know, it's sad.  Another one.  This is America.  Unless people decide to do the right thing.  This is America.  We got to stand by all.  We need our allies to stand with us.  This is what's going on.  This is what's happening.  It's still happening.  Even after what happened with George Floyd.
It's within them.  There's some coward cops out there.  It's the system.  We got to change it.  I ask all my brothers and sisters out there to continue this fight while we're in here, we'll continue the fight while we're in here.  Everybody has to join together.
Q. Trez mentioned he was playing video games with you.  Doc mentioned the guys talked to you after Game 4.  How much did that mean to you?  What was going on?
PAUL GEORGE:   It meant a lot.  It meant a lot.  It's tough.  This is really hard being in here.  It's not easy.  All day it's just basketball.  It's hard to get away from it.  You see guys on other teams.  Shout out to the NBA for creating this environment, but at the same time it's rough.
I just got to find what's going to get me able to check out of the game and check out of just constantly being in that mode.
So, you know, again, all my guys helped.  I've been around them, we've been out playing the game.  Great talk with Doc.  Again, all my family were there.  My girl, Gracie, my kids.  Just so many people that I can name that I've talked to in the past 24 hours that had a helping hand in just getting me into a better spirit again.
Q. You said you found it.  When did you feel like you were back to Paul George again?
PAUL GEORGE:   I mean, I felt it just the start today.  Talks with a psychiatrist, our team psychiatrist.  I mean, I just felt it.  My energy, my spirit was changed.  That's all it needed.  That's all I needed.  I came here, I knew what my job was.  Left it all on that court.  Ready to move forward.
Q. What do you think it will take for there to be finally (indiscernible)?
PAUL GEORGE:   You know what it is?  It starts with our president.  It goes from there.  That's where it starts.  It starts with people that are in position, the higher positions.  It starts with them.
To be truthful, I can't even say that.  It starts with us as Americans, as voters.  It starts with us as voters to put those people in position to do the right thing.  We can't blame them because that's who they are.  We're empowering him.
As voters, it's on us.  We got to put people in positions that are going to do the right thing, that know right from wrong.
We all play a part in this.
Q. How hopeful are you that we will see some type of change in the upcoming future?
PAUL GEORGE:   I mean, that's all we got, right?  That's all we got, is hope.  Can't ask for much more.  That's all we got, is hope.  Hope.
I'm sure that guy in those moments hoped he would live to see another day.  George Floyd hoped that (indiscernible) would listen.
That's all we got, is hope.  We're asking for hope.  For a lot of black Americans, we're hoping to see the next day.  It is what it is.  Hope is the biggest part of all of this.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT