LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 6, 2020
Paul George
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Clippers 126, Mavericks 111
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions for P.G.
 Q. After last game, Doc said Zu had put up some good numbers but had a couple things he could have done better.  Obviously came out tonight and played better.  What did you see from him?
 PAUL GEORGE:   I thought he honestly set the tone tonight.  I thought he established the middle presence.  I mean, he just kept a bunch of plays alive.  He defended his tail off, just loaded up.  He was there all game.
 Tonight was challenging.  He had to guard a stretch shooter.  I thought he did a great job of doing both, moving his feet.  Sometimes he was switched on guards.  I thought overall tonight he was locked in.  That's what we need from him.
 Q. You went on a 20-to-10 run in the final five minutes of the game.  Was that the first time so far in the bubble you felt like you were playing how you were before the bubble?
 PAUL GEORGE:   No, not the first time.  We had glimpses.  I thought for that stretch we dominated both ends.  Defensively we dominated, offensively we found something.  I thought we just kept milking it.  Game just opened up at that point.
 Q. Zu said you were on him after the last game coming into this game.  Talk a little bit about your relationship with him, that role of bringing along a young player.
 PAUL GEORGE:   Yeah, yeah, I mean, Zu is like a little brother.  He's got a ton of upside.  He really has tons of potential.  He can do a lot of things.  I've seen it.  I've been on the other end when he was with the Lakers and he dominated.
 I just expect a lot from him.  It's good.  I think he's a guy that enjoys and loves that pressure because we get on him and he responds really well.
 I just want the best for him.  I see a great future with Zu.  My job is to try to help him, try to get him to the next level.
 Q. What challenges does Doncic present to a defense?  What have you had some success with against him so far?
 PAUL GEORGE:   Luka is just a pure player, all-around player.  He can shoot it, pass it, he rebounds.  He just does everything at a high level.  It's a guy that you have to game plan around.  I mean, you see it tonight, how he just constantly put pressure on us.
 But I think this team, we have so many defenders, we got so many guys, it's just tough over a full game where you have to go through defender after defender.  At some point you get worn down.
 He ended up with a big stat line tonight.  I think we made it as tough as possible for him.
 Q. In regards to Zu, do you feel responsibility to give him opportunities to show up big like he did tonight?
 PAUL GEORGE:   Yeah, if you look at teams that switch, we got to punish them for that.  Zu is so big, we got to punish them if they try to switch and put a small on him, expecting us to try to take advantage of the mismatch that we have.
 Zu has to make his-self available in those mismatches as well because he is a big body and he finishes so well.  That's what we're on him about most, is just making yourself big down there so we can find you and get some easy baskets.
 Q. Another Zu question, specifically about the Playoffs.  Last year he was a guy who couldn't stay on the floor against Golden State, largely matchup driven.  Where do you feel his Playoff readiness is at?
 PAUL GEORGE:   I think he's ready.  I think he's ready at this point in his career.  He's still got a ways to go.  He's going to make mistakes now, he's going to make mistakes in the Playoffs, as we all are.
 I think, again, a good thing about it, he's got so much Playoff experience around him that our job is to make this process easy for him.  Again, everyone's going to make mistakes.  I'm still learning the game.  It's going to come natural.
 But I think he's ready for the experience.
 Q. You are 3-0 against the Mavericks this season.  Right now it looks like that is the team you're most likely face in the first round.  What have you been able to learn or take away from the three matchups?
 PAUL GEORGE:   I mean, we just got to make it a tough game.  It's a team you got to be physical with.  They're a continuity team where they just want to run their offense, be comfortable.  We take them out of that, the game is in our hands.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, P.G.  Have a good night.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT