NBA ALL-STAR 2018
February 17, 2018
Paul George
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What do you feel right now that your PG PlayStation is hottest and one of the most in-demand shoes at the moment?
PAUL GEORGE: You know what?  It's actually pretty awesome to be a part of the culture and growing up, a part of the culture.  At the end of the day, that's what I wanted out of my sneakers, is to be a great on-court performance shoe as well as an awesome sneaker off the court.
I'm really happy.  Really happy the way it's been developing and the way I think people and consumers are starting to gravitate toward my shoe.
Q. How does it feel when players wear the shoe?
PAUL GEORGE: Actually, it's pretty dope.  It's pretty awesome.  Whether it's teammates, whether it's guys I'm going against, whether it's college kids, it's pretty awesome.  Especially seeing where I've been and where I've come from and the development that I've had, to be at this point now to see other people in my sneakers, honestly, I think that's where the real dream is.
Q. How does it feel to have so many fans?
PAUL GEORGE: It feels good to be welcomed.  I think anybody would want to be wanted and feel welcome.  So that always feels great.
Q. What do you think about these new All-Star Game changes?
PAUL GEORGE: I like it.  A little mix-up, a little clash of East and West on different sides.  I like the little mix-up we have.
Q. Who is your pick for Rookie of the Year, and what do you like about his game?
PAUL GEORGE: My pick?  That's a tough one.  There are some really good rookies.  I'm going to have to go with my youngin', D-Mitch [Donovan Mitchell].  I think he's having an unbelievable rookie season.  Not to take credit away from what Ben Simmons is doing.  I think they're both neck-and-neck in my opinion on winning that award.
But I think with what Donovan is doing is a little bit more impressive just because no one had this high expectation, and he's really just wowing everybody.
Q. Do you think you know right now what you're going to do this summer?
PAUL GEORGE: I don't.  I know what I feel is best, but it's a long ways until the end of the season.
Q. A few years ago you answered a lot of questions about basketball.  And you've answered questions about social media issues.  We're more than athletes.  How do you approach that right now with everything that goes on politically?
PAUL GEORGE: Well, I agree.  I agree with what KD said.  I agree with what LeBron said.  We are.  People just view us as athletes and basketball players.  We're just a part of what's going on in this world, what's going on in society just as much as anybody else.
We're fathers.  We're sons.  We're brothers.  We've got family to look after.  We're just as connected and deeply in this as anybody else is.  For someone to go out and say stick to dribbling a basketball, that's pretty ignorant.  That just goes to show where we are as a country right now.
Q. Do you feel your voices are really being heard?
PAUL GEORGE: Absolutely.  Absolutely.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT