NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2016
Paul George
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. This is the last All-Star for Kobe Bryant; what would you like to say about this special moment?
PAUL GEORGE: I just want to wish him farewell.  He's meant so much to this game.  He's meant so much to me.  It's an honor to be at this final game.  This should be a moment we all remember.
Q. What do you need in the second half of the season to win?
PAUL GEORGE: I think we've got to get some consistency.  We've got to figure out who we are and maintain it throughout the rest of the season if we want to get to where we can get to.  It's cliché, but we've got to play better.  We've got to finish games out.
Q. Eighteen months after injury, we see you again, what would you like to say?
PAUL GEORGE: I'm blessed.  Only thing I can say is I'm blessed.
Q. Jabari Parker yesterday said you have been an inspirational figure for him for the recovery process.  Could you give some advice for players that are at down points of their careers?
PAUL GEORGE: I think for players that are trying to make a comeback and trying to gain confidence for their bodies from injuries, they've got to set small goals.  I think that's the biggest key, especially when you're at a high level and you get knocked back down and trying to get back to that level again, you don't want to rush it.  You don't want to wake up and feel like you should be at this spot right away.  You've got to slowly and gradually build yourself back up, and that's only going to happen if you build or create small goals to achieve.
Q. How many Kobe shoes do you have?
PAUL GEORGE: I've got about 15 to 20.  Fifteen to 20 pairs that haven't been worn.
Q. Boys & Girls of America here.  Since you're a supporter of Boys & Girls Club of America, why Boys & Girls Club is so important?
PAUL GEORGE: I think it's just great for kids in the community to have an outlet.  It's a way for them to get away from the violence, get away from any negativity.  I think the Boys & Girls Club creates a positive environment.  It's good, especially in communities that are going bad, because there are kids that want to be good, and want to be in positive settings, and they give them an outlet for that.
Q. Do you have any advice for teens?
PAUL GEORGE: I think it's not allowing anybody to tell you no.  I've heard it my whole career, wanting to be a professional basketball player, that I couldn't do it.  That always just motivated me.  Anything is possible in this world.  If you put your mind to it, pray about it and put God first, anything is achievable.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT