NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 26, 2014
Paul George
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Indiana Pacers - 90
  Miami Heat - 102

Q.   Paul, what was different in terms of the start of this game to the previous three?   How did they jump out on you so quickly? 
PAUL GEORGE:   I think just in the first quarter, they played with a lot of energy.   I think we had like five or six turnovers or something like that in the first quarter, where we just didn't take care of the ball.   They got out, and they were able to score on those possessions. 

Q.   What adjustments do you guys need to make going forward to make sure this series continues to keep going? 
PAUL GEORGE:   I don't know.   Looking at the stat sheet, we outplayed them.   You got to give them credit.   They won this game at the free‑throw line.   They really just were able to get to the line more than we were, but I thought we outplayed them tonight.

Q.   Paul, I know Coach said he liked the fight that he saw out of you guys, but do you feel discouraged or disheartened at this point? 
PAUL GEORGE:   It's just demoralizing when a game is lopsided.   I mean, I'm sorry to say, but that was the case, again. 
How rare is it we shoot 50 percent, turn the ball over around 13 or so times, outrebound a team, and lose a ball game? 
This one‑‑ I thought we did a great job.   I just thought we did a great job.   We rallied at the end to try to make a push. 
But, again, they made 30 free throws, and that put them over the edge. 

Q.   David West a few minutes ago said that he doesn't think that you guys should provide bulletin board material for another team, in referring to Lance.   What was your thought on how that played out in tonight's game with LeBron being in attack mode and Lance kind of not being as available and as powerful as he normally is? 
PAUL GEORGE:   You know, Lance is young, and that's a teaching point.   That's a learning lesson for him. 
Sometimes you've just got to watch what you say.   You're on the big stage.   Everything we say is going to be bulletin board material.   It's really going to have a powerful meaning behind it.   We've just got to be smarter with situations and just voicing our opinion sometimes. 

Q.   Do you think them shooting twice as many free throws is more to do with them being more aggressive going to the paint or a little bit of home‑court advantage? 
PAUL GEORGE:   What do you think?   I mean, you can't tell me we don't attack the basket as much as they attack the basket.   You can't tell me we're not aggressive.   Maybe we're too aggressive. 
But I feel like we're just as aggressive as they are attacking the basket and making plays at the rim.   Maybe this was just home cooking. 

Q.   You mentioned that maybe you need to watch what you say.   Do you think that Lance's comments took him out of the game at all today?   He was scoreless until about almost halfway through the third quarter. 
PAUL GEORGE:   Yeah, maybe so.   You know, maybe so.   When you make comments regarding trash talking and just being caught up between another player in a matchup, you got to bring it.   You got to bring it. 
I'm pretty sure a lot of people were going to be tuned in to see what Lance was going to do because of what he said.   Maybe there's a lot of pressure on him.   And everybody goes through situations where you just struggle.   Just because of what was said and what was done, it just wasn't a good time for him.

Q.   Paul, you mentioned the free‑throw discrepancy, and you mentioned turnovers you guys had.   Which played a bigger factor, in your opinion, you guys turning the ball over and them scoring easily or the free throws? 
PAUL GEORGE:   Probably free throws.   Probably free throws.   I know we gave up 20 points on‑‑ or turnovers, points off turnovers.   But we can overcome that.   You can't overcome a 20‑point differential in free throws. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT