NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v PACERS
May 24, 2014
Paul George
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Paul, you guys had in the last 13 games have gone back and forth, win‑loss, win‑loss with them.   Are there any concerns they might have figured something out, especially the way they went to the small lineup and Ray Allen hitting those threes at the end, or is this just part of the trend? 
PAUL GEORGE:   No, it's the same story.   We turn the ball over, they've got great guys that are going to make plays in open court.   For them, Ray got hot, and they kept finding him in transition.   That's really where he got his four threes and really broke this game open.

Q.   Paul, did you feel any more fatigued?   You said you might be heading into the game after the concussion tests? 
PAUL GEORGE:   No, I spent most of my night on the bench.   So I was good. 

Q.   Paul, the fact you guys have been tested so much, two elimination games in the first round, two more in the second round obviously, blowing another 15‑point lead like you did earlier in the year here tonight, does it help you knowing you have the capability to put these things behind you and find that next level? 
PAUL GEORGE:   Yeah.   I mean, you can't play around with this team.   I thought we got comfortable at one point in this game, you know, just being up early.   This game is all about runs, and ultimately, the team that takes the biggest run or the last run is the team that's going to win.   It's not about the first run. 
That's what they did.   They made the last run and the final push to give themselves some cushion.

Q.   The stars came back with a 15‑point cushion over the Heat, but you guys lost it.   Had a stretch of turnovers.   Did you see any reason whyor can you explain why there was such a sloppy play at that stretch? 
PAUL GEORGE:   I don't.   I don't.   It's always in the pick‑and‑rolls, too.   We get careless in the pick‑and‑rolls. 
We've got the formula to attack them on the pick‑and‑rolls, but we've got to do a better job of how we carry it out.

Q.   Paul, you guys have the size to assert yourselves inside, and early in the game it seemed like you were able to do so with that.   Did they take that away, or did you guys go away from that? 
PAUL GEORGE:   I thought we just went away from it.   I thought westill did a great job of attacking them the way we attacked them.   That's definitely got to be an emphasis to continue on, going inside to our bigs. 
Again, whatever we do, we just can't turn over the ball.   We've got to take care of it.

Q.   Paul, why have you had a tough time closing quarters these last couple of games? 
PAUL GEORGE:   I don't know.   I don't know.   That's an area we've got to improve in. 

Q.   You alluded to it earlier, you spent most of the night on the bench.   Did you feel at any point that you had any rhythm in this game? 
PAUL GEORGE:   I didn't.   I didn't.   It's hard to make a couple of shots and then get sent to the bench, especially when‑‑ I won't get into it.   It's tough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT