NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 27, 2013
Paul George
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You're at home, and they seemed to do everything just right, and you couldn't do anything to stop them. 
PAUL GEORGE:   Yeah, I mean, it's tough.   They came out and played a great game.   If that's how champions respond, we have to see where we're at. 

Q.   If champions do respond that way, what do you want to do to match their level? 
PAUL GEORGE:   Well, we have to watch the film today and see the things that we could have got better at.   But I thought offensively we played a pretty good and solid game. 
Where we didn't play nearly as good as we wanted to was on the defensive end.   Allowing 70 points in the half against the defending champions is just not going to cut it. 

Q.   You had been perfect at home.   How much of a chink in your armor is that? 
PAUL GEORGE:   It's not much.   It's one game.   The series is not over.   We're still planning on a long series.   But it's one game at a time.   We proved we can play well here and there, so it's one game at a time. 

Q.   Obviously, you gave up a lot of points, specifically on defense.   What are some of the things that have to be better tomorrow? 
PAUL GEORGE:   Just got to be tied together.   A lot of passes they got were just lay‑ups.   We have to be tied together.   Everybody has to be in sync, how we always are defensively.   Especially at home.   We're usually pretty (Indiscernible) at home.   So that's what's got to change for us to be successful. 

Q.   What do you need to do against LeBron?   He seemed to live in the paint.   Do you need help to come quicker? 
PAUL GEORGE:   No, I just have to battle him.   Just push him out a little further.   He just did a good job of moving the personnel around, have Roy not be down there.   So we'll switch things up and figure out how to adjust to it. 

Q.   How difficult is he to stop when he's down there in the post getting things going like he did in the second quarter? 
PAUL GEORGE:   I mean, he's tough.   He's obviously gifted physically and he's a strong dude, so it's tough.   It's tough battling him down there.   But again it's something I've learned and will continue to learn more and more when I'm down there guarding him. 

Q.   It's hard to meet him early when they've got him on the move like they did last night, right? 
PAUL GEORGE:   Yeah, yeah.   It is.   There's not much movement you can do when he's planted down there.   Again, I just got to battle. 

Q.   A lot of the focus has been making LeBron work at the other end.   Where do you think your opportunities are going to be able to come from, given the adjustments they made last night? 
PAUL GEORGE:   Well, what made it tough was we was getting everything out of the net.   There really wasn't no opportunities to attack, fast breaks or in transition, you know, when the defense is not set.   That took a lot of play into what ‑‑ not being able to get to the rim and be aggressive off the bounce. 
So we just have to do a good job of forcing misses so we can get in transition and attack when the defense isn't set. (Indiscernible)

Q.   David West said you can't allow LeBron four, five, six dribbles in that situation.   (Indiscernible) what is the balance? 
PAUL GEORGE:   LeBron has to know they're there.   He can't feel like he's isolated by himself down there.   He's, if not the best player, one of the best players in this league.   You give him five dribbles at the block, you're giving him two points. 
So LeBron just got to know‑‑ he sees David West, he sees George, he sees Lance.   You have to make sure he feels our presence down there. 

Q.   I know you felt like you had to win one of the first two down there to have a chance to win the series.   How mandatory is Game 4 for you to win tomorrow night? 
PAUL GEORGE:   It's real mandatory.   It's us playing with our backs against the wall.   We have to come out and feel that way.   It's a must‑win for us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT