NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 23, 2013
Paul George
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was it like trying to get to sleep last night? 
PAUL GEORGE:   It was tough.   You know, it was tough.   I really didn't get to sleep.   I thought about it.   It was all over SportsCenter ESPN, so it was hard to get away from it.   But you definitely wish you could have that moment back. 

Q.   What was the worst part of all of it for you, other than the loss? 
PAUL GEORGE:   Just everything‑‑ for us not to play a great game and have the opportunity to still steal a game and not be able to do so, it hurts, you know what I mean?   Especially how big these games are now.   So for us not to be able to overcome that, it sucks. 

Q.   Roy told us he has to grow more as a player and he has to tell Coach Vogel I have to be in the game right there and right then. 
PAUL GEORGE:   I mean, Coach's decision.   It was a smart decision.   He put five perimeter defenders out there who can all guard their guys.   And we just‑‑ I made a bonehead mistake of pressuring up on LeBron. 
We're all a young team.   Coach is a young coach.   We'll grow.   We'll grow, from Roy, myself, George, Lance, D. West, even Coach.   We'll all grow together.   So that's something that we have to learn from. 

Q.   Is it amazing to see the highlights and everything over and over again?   Did you at least see the three‑pointer? 
PAUL GEORGE:   No.   That gets overshadowed somehow by that lay‑up.   Had we won that game, I think that would have been the play that kept being repeated.   Not the lay‑up. 

Q.   Is that something that can give you a little bit of confidence going forward? 
PAUL GEORGE:   It does, it does. 

Q.   It was a clutch shot. 
PAUL GEORGE:   Yeah.   And everybody knows.   I mean, I struggled a little bit on the road.   But I felt good, I felt good late in the game.   And I think that gave me the confidence going forward. 

Q.   You said it was a "bonehead play."   You're covering LeBron James.   How much does fatigue factor into that in overtime? 
PAUL GEORGE:   Well, at that point it's almost out the window.   You know you've got to win a ballgame.   So me being tired was the last thing I was thinking about. 
But still, just fell asleep on that play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT