NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PACERS v HEAT
May 22, 2013
Paul George
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Paul, can you talk about a game where you make a three‑pointer with 7/10ths of a second to go in regulation, three free‑throws with 2.2 seconds left in overtime, I mean, did you think both times, this had to be our night?   And how stunning was it to do that in the same game and wind up with this kind of result? 
PAUL GEORGE:   Yeah.   You know, everything that we did to battle back to that point, you know, just felt like everything was in our favor.   And you know, when that three went down and obviously when I got fouled at the three‑point line, us being in position to win that game, you feel confident about we was going to be able to take care of business. 
I slipped up.   I just slipped up at the end. 

Q.   Paul, was this game, this outcome, mostly disheartening?   Do you somehow draw inspiration from it?   How do you bounce back from this? 
PAUL GEORGE:   I mean, we got to feel good about how we played, you know.   At this point every possession counts.   And that's what we've got to understand.   Myself included.   You know, a couple of turnovers that I wish we could take back‑‑ I could take back.   But the margin of error is so small at this level, so going into Game 2, we just got to improve off that. 

Q.   Paul, can you go through that last possession there?   Because Erik Spoelstra said that LeBron James saw daylight, but he had his back to you and went that way.   Was it a good guess by him?   A good pass?   Bad position?   How did you see it? 
PAUL GEORGE:   They ran the same play.   Ray Allen went to the corner for their last possession, you know, and we all switched out, and it kind of threw me off, because I see Ray running by.   It kind of threw me off a little bit.   Which I had to fly out to LeBron.   He made a good play. 
I can understand.   You have to make LeBron shoot a jumper at that point. 

Q.   Paul, two questions:   One, you say you slipped up.   Why do you think you slipped up in that situation? 
PAUL GEORGE:   I mean, I gave him‑‑ I pressured.   I was up too close on him.   You have to make him shoot a jumper.   That's what we wanted.   We wanted LeBron to shoot a jumper right there. 

Q.   And secondly, Roy Hibbert was not on the floor for those last two possessions.   If you had to do it over again, would you rather have had Roy Hibbert on the floor to protect the rim? 
PAUL GEORGE:   Yeah, I think we all would.   He does an amazing job of protecting the rim.   I'm 100% sure he would have been there. 

Q.   Can you tell us about the big three you made from, I don't know, 45 feet or whatever, and the three free‑throws. 
PAUL GEORGE:   I mean, ain't much I can say.   But I felt comfortable coming off‑‑ when David West handed the ball off to me.   First option was to come off of that screen, but they switched it, so we looked for George coming off; that wasn't there.   I knew we needed a shot, so was thankful that it went in. 
And again, I tried to make a play.   We had the little scramble, George getting it, tried to make a play there, I got ticked on the arm.   I think the ref saw it and gave us the three. 

Q.   On that last three‑pointer in which they called the foul, you hit three free‑throws.   Some people seemed to question the call.   Do you feel you got fouled on that play? 
PAUL GEORGE:   Without a doubt.   Without a doubt. 

Q.   Paul, is there a point in the game or is there something that you look to when you realized that, yeah, we're playing the game at our pace, at our style, as opposed to theirs? 
PAUL GEORGE:   I mean, I don't know.   I think we're just a versatile group.   I think we can play at their pace and at times we can slow it down when we need to.   And us slowing it down, when we go to our power game.   You look at David West and Roy, got 20 baskets themselves.   That's all in the paint. 
So we do a good job of being versatile.   I think we can play at any tempo. 

Q.   Paul, such a seesawing game for you and for both teams.   Have you ever had a tougher loss in the playoffs? 
PAUL GEORGE:   No.   This one might be the toughest one to swallow.   Talking about having an opportunity to take the first game.   Kind of be in the lead of the series.   And not being able to do it because of a last possession, that one hurts.   It hurts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT