LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 5, 2020
Paul George
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Nuggets 110, Clippers 101
 Q. Doc had mentioned that he felt like after that first quarter when they scored 44, the defense was pretty good that you guys put out there, but it was the offense.  I guess what do you feel like the offense's trouble over the last three quarters -- was that stuff they were throwing at you guys or miscommunication or misexecution by you guys?
 PAUL GEORGE:   I think a little bit of everything.  Definitely miscommunication on our part and I think give them credit for the defense they were throwing at us.  I mean, I think I know and we're aware of how to attack it now, just based off us talking, but they did a good job of just swarming us and we've got to be better.
 Q. From Game 1 to Game 2 did they surprise you with anything they did defensively, as far as the typing of the double-teams or the way the double-teams came, because I think they held you and Kawhi to a combined six baskets inside the paint.
 PAUL GEORGE:   It's playoffs.  It's playoffs.  It's a game of adjustments at this point.  They made the adjustments from Game 1.  It's no surprise.  We just, you know, we weren't aware that they were going to do that tonight.  But it comes as no surprise that they are going to make the adjustment.  We just got to be better going into Game 3.
 Q. First of all, it looked like you hyperextended your knee at some point.  Were you after that play?  I know you played through it.
 PAUL GEORGE:   Yeah, yeah, I did.  I was able to play through it.  I was fine once I got moving again.
 Q. And Doc said that they really punched you guys in the mouth that first quarter.  Obviously you had to expect that they would come out like that, but why was it so hard to counter their big run to start?
 PAUL GEORGE:   I don't think it was hard.  I think we missed some shots.  We just couldn't find the basket in the first quarter.  That was really the game.  Us not playing defense and allowing them rhythm and shots in the first quarter, and that's and us not making shots was a big swing in the first quarter I think.
 Q. The last three quarters were better than the first.  You got close to seven here and there.  Did it feel like you might get over the hump?  Were there moments where it seemed like it could be in your grasp?
 PAUL GEORGE:   Absolutely.  Absolutely.  We never gave up the fight.  We never quitted on each other.  Like I said, we've just got to be better, figuring out, you know, where that double is coming, when that double is coming and sharing the ball.  I think that's just where we've got to be better.  Myself personally, I've got to just be a better play maker in those situations.
 Q. Seemed like you had a lack of energy or they had more energy, to start the game, but that sense of urgency, how do you change that going into Game 3?
 PAUL GEORGE:   Just got to come ready, that's it.  There's no blueprint to it.  You've just got to come ready.  You know, that's on us.  But we will be ready for Game 3.  There's no pep talks for it.  It's the playoffs.  We have to be ready and we have to be a lot stronger, and we'll be up for the fight and challenge in Game 3.
 Q. Near the end of the game, I noticed you guarding Jamal Murray a little bit more.  Do you sense that that's going to have to be one of those challenges that you're going to have take on, kind of guarding him late in games?
 PAUL GEORGE:   I mean, we got multiple guys that can do the job.  You know, for us, it's just whoever's closer, whoever's around.  Everybody's comfortable matching up with whoever.  That's what's so great about our team is the versatility with our defenders.  Everybody is going to have different matchups.  I was just on him tonight towards the end, but you know, everybody's going to have that matchup.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT