LOS ANGELES CLIPPERS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 3, 2020
Paul George
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Clippers 120, Nuggets 91
 Q. This is only the 13th time with your full lineup.  Is this starting to look like what you guys are capable of doing?
 PAUL GEORGE:   I mean, it's just great.  It's great to have everybody together.  We've been saying it all year.  It's good for us to continue to build this chemistry.  I thought we looked great tonight.  I thought we did everything.  Everybody helped.   We had great energy.  We were vocal and, you know, we just wanted it.  We wanted to play for one another, and it was just fun basketball playing with everybody.
 Q. What stood out to you the most tonight?  It seemed like this was the best game you played in the bubble.  What did you think?
 PAUL GEORGE:   I thought we just locked into our assignments I thought to be honest, that was the best we've done so far against an opponent.  I think we just locked into our assignments.  Our attention to detail was great.  And we followed the game plan.
 Q. Defensively you did a good job of limiting Jokic and Murray in the pick-and-roll.  What did you do specifically to slow those guys down?
 PAUL GEORGE:   We just played defense.
 Q. You talk about having everybody together collectively but Patrick Beverley back on the court seemed to put everybody in place and just seemed like you guys really clicked having him on the squad in the starting lineup.  Did it feel that way to you?  Is that the case?
 PAUL GEORGE:   Yeah, I thought Pat had a great impact all game, and I saw he only played 12 minutes.
 It's just it's Pat Beverley's impact.  He's such a contagious guy with energy and effort that it just flows through the team.  It was great to have him back on that floor with us.
 Q. Marcus is shooting 56 percent in the postseason so far.  What have you seen from him since Game 1 in the Dallas series on, just the difference in his game?
 PAUL GEORGE:   There's no difference.  You know, everybody knows coming into this team, Marcus is a scorer.  He's been a scorer with the Celtics.  He's been a scorer with New York.  That's his game.  He knows how to score the ball.
 I think for him, it was an adjustment coming into a new team, trying to find his way, trying to fit in, playing alongside Kawhi, myself, Lou.  He's just trying to find his way and not step on anybody's toes.
 I think for him, he's got to be aggressive, as well, and he's got to be himself, as well.  I think what we have done best is just allowed him to be himself and play his game.  He's a play maker and scorer and that benefits all of us as well.
 Q. What does it take to play with the type of intensity you guys showed tonight?  How challenging is that to be able to do that knowing that there's been guys in and out of the lineup and being here is a challenge in and of itself?
 PAUL GEORGE:   I mean, it just took us to come here tonight and just lock into what we needed to do. There's no sugarcoating answer or no headline answer.  We just locked into what we needed to do, and that was enough for us to play with energy and effort.  You know, we just knew what our job was tonight, and we executed it.
 Q. What are the ways that -- inaudible.
 PAUL GEORGE:   His voice, his communication, his extra-effort plays.  You know, he does all the small stuff.  He boxes out.  He goes and get offensive rebounds.  He rebounds well for his position.  You know, he just makes so many winning effort plays that sometimes aren't even stat plays.  But just he gives his self up and he gives his body up and you just love playing with guys like that that is fully committed and bought into the team.  You know, if you see someone like that, you have no choice but to buy in and help pull the weight with someone like him.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT