AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 7, 1999
Charles Nagy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.    Can you talk about the way you threw today? 
A.    I felt fine out there.  I felt like I was throwing the ball well.  Eleven runs was a great help, it kind of lets you just go out there and settle down.  After you get a lead like that, you just want to go out there and throw strikes and get your guys back in the dugout as best as you can. 
Q.    How did you pitch Nomar today?  He was 0 for 3, we think.  He's been a thorn in your side all season. 
A.    I just tried to make him hit my pitch.  I didn't want to give him anything good over the plate to hit.  I just tried to hit the corners on him, change speeds, and Travis made a great play in the sixth or seventh inning or something like that on him.  But I just didn't want to give him anything too good to hit that he could put the barrel of the bat on.  I was able to do that today. 
Q.    You pitched a lot of big games the last four or five years.  How does it make you different, I mean, how does the experience help you? 
A.    You just really know what to expect.  I mean, the media coverage and all the hype.  Just the electricity in the air.  It is playoff time, playoff fever.  You just kind of understand what's going on and you know what you have to do to get ready for the game and try not to get caught up within all the hoopla that is going on and just try and be yourself and go out and just do what you have to do to get the hitters out. 
Q.    Yesterday you said you weren't a big Red Sox fan when you were growing up.  Would you explain why you seem to be doing so well against them?
A.    I have no idea why I have success against that team and I'm not even going to try and analyze it or think about it.  I've been very fortunate, and you just count your blessings, basically. 
Q.    Would you talk about the first batter that you pitched to, pitching from the stretch? 
A.    That's huge.  You know, the first inning, they want to come out, you know, especially from the night before, they want to come out swinging the bats, get an early lead on us and they got on and he did his job, he got the bat on the ball and got a base hit, tried to steal second base and Sandy made a great throw.  I tried to be quick to the plate, like I said, Sandy made a great throw, Robbie made a great tag and we were fortunate enough to get him out.  Nothing about me falling on the mound or anything? 
Q.    Did you get your cleat caught? 
A.    Yes.  I just caught my spike. 
Q.    Was that the groove they were talking about yesterday?
A.    Yes.  The groove.  My dancing groove.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT