AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: INDIANS v YANKEES
October 12, 1998
Charles Nagy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You have been in the stadium probably as much as any opposing player. You pitched
here a lot. What do you anticipate it is going to be like for tomorrow?
 
 CHARLES NAGY: It is going to be crazy. I mean, New York is up 3-2 and they are sensing
something, so they are going to be behind their team tomorrow and just being crazy. 
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about the mindset of just being in the position where you
have to try to prolong the series as opposed to winning?
 
 CHARLES NAGY: I mean, you just look at it as one game that is all we can do right now
is just think about tomorrow's game, go out there and worry about winning that game. I am
just going to approach it like I did last week and there is no secret to what I am going
to do out there. I am just going to go out and throw my pitches and whatever happens,
happens. 
 
Q. David talked about how much he admires you as a pitcher and as a person. Is there a
mutual admiration?
 
 CHARLES NAGY: I love that guy (Laughter.) I am getting little misty here. Oh, I mean, I
am one of David Wells biggest fans. He is an unbelievable -- 
 
Q. David Cone.
 
 CHARLES NAGY: I love that guy too (Laughter.) No, Coney is a great guy. I met him a few
years back and yeah, I am a little tired. (Laughter.) But yeah, David is a great guy,
great competitor. I have watched him pitch for a long time. I admire what he does. I was
very happy that he got 20 wins this year. I can't say enough great things about him. What
he has overcome with the arm surgery and everything else like that. I know what he went
through and to have the success and to pitch like he has been pitching, it is just, you
just admire what he does when he goes out there. 
 
Q. If the abuse gets pretty ugly while you are warming up, can you tune that out from
the fans?
 
 CHARLES NAGY: I mean, yeah. You can't let it get to you. You hear everything everybody
says, but there is nothing you can do about it. I mean, you can't -- the worst thing you
can do is acknowledge them. If you acknowledge them, just eggs them on even more and then
all of a sudden you find yourself distracted and you can't do that. 
 
Q. Last year you were kind of passed over in Game 7 of the World Series; do you find it
ironic now to extend this team's season? Do you think of it as kind of revenge --
 
 CHARLES NAGY: No. 
 
Q. Would you like to elaborate a little bit on that?
 
 CHARLES NAGY: No. 
 
Q. Cone talked about a rematch in less than a week in -- hitters look at their
videotape and get indicators and signs. Do you sort of have to rethink matchups try to get
a little creative in that way. It is tough on the pitchers. Comment on that.
 
 CHARLES NAGY: Really this is going to be the third time I have faced these guys in
three weeks. Faced them the last week of the season, playoffs and then I will face them
tomorrow. So I mean, there is no secret to what I do. If I am going to go out and throw my
sinker, slider, my change up, my split. They know that. And if I keep the ball down and if
I can get my breaking balls over for strikes, you know, hopefully I will have some
success. 
 
Q. What does it feel like to pitch in the big game in Yankee Stadium?
 
 CHARLES NAGY: It is kind of neat -- no. I'm nervous. I am excited. It is going to be
fun. It is the ultimate stadium, Yankee Stadium. And a must-win game. It is going to be
fun. I hope. 
 
Q. What is the difference between pitching to Sandy and Einar, if Sandy can't go
tomorrow night?
 
 CHARLES NAGY: I pitched to Sandy my whole career. My first game in the Big Leagues was
pitching to Sandy. Einar is a good catcher. He is a good catcher. He knows what he is
doing back there. I have only pitched to him twice this year, or twice ever. So I am
comfortable with him back there, I know I have a lot of confidence in him. If he is behind
there tomorrow, we will just deal with it. 
 
Q. Do you anticipate Sandy being in the lineup?
 
 CHARLES NAGY: If Sandy can get out of bed, I know he will want to play. That is the
kind of -- that is just Sandy. It was hard for him to sit and watch the game yesterday and
to take himself out the day before. I mean, this is why you play baseball right here. I
know he is in a lot of pain, as are a lot of other guys on our team. But you know, he just
-- he felt he was hurting the team more than he was helping it being out there playing and
the way he was playing. 
 
Q. You made some comment last year about not being comfortable being the No.1 guy in
this rotation. Has that changed and if so, how?
 
 CHARLES NAGY: I never said I wasn't comfortable being the No.1 guy. I just don't think
we have a No.1 guy on our staff. I don't think -- I think there is a handful of No.1 guys
throughout the league and maybe five or six guys that you can call really No.1 go-to guys.
Everybody else just got to go out and do your job. 
 
Q. You mentioned you hope it is going to be fun tomorrow pitching at Yankee Stadium. At
the end of that you said it is a must-win game. How much does that factor in your thinking
that it is a must-win game? You are warming up in the bullpen and thinking you can't make
a lot of mistakes how much is that a factor of it being a must-win game?
 
 CHARLES NAGY: Well, I know if we don't win we are going home on Wednesday. I don't know
how to answer that question. It is -- I know it is a big game. You got to go out and just
do your job. If I do my job we will be playing on Wednesday. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT