MLB WORLD SERIES: INDIANS v MARLINS
October 20, 1997
Charles Nagy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Some pitchers say they don't mind the cold weather, some hate the cold weather,
where do you fall in that?

CHARLES NAGY: I don't mind it so much. It doesn't -- it's just something you have to
deal with, there's nothing you can do about it, you can't change the conditions. I grew up
in cold weather, I've pitched in cold weather before, but nothing can really prepare you
to go out there. It doesn't -- it's going to be cold. There's nothing you can do about it.

Q. Do you do anything to your pitches Charles, grip?

CHARLES NAGY: You just try and keep your hands warm, so you can get a grip on the ball.
Other than that you just -- you find a warm place on the bench and try and get back there
as fast as you can.

Q. You've had some great defense played behind you, does that make you feel comfortable
being a ground ball pitcher?

CHARLES NAGY: Yeah, we've got a great defensive team. We've got a lot of guys out there
with a lot of Gold Gloves. And I'm not a strike out guy, so I've got to make the hitters
put the ball in play. And when you have a defense like that behind you, that makes my job
a lot easier.

Q. What was your reaction to the trade with the Braves, your initial reaction when you
heard about it?

CHARLES NAGY: Kind of shocked, you know, because there was really no rumors about it,
or didn't -- like I said, you just didn't know it was going to happen, so I was a little
shocked. But it's worked out for the best. We traded Kenny and Alan Embree, two quality
players, and we got two quality players in return. So I think both sides were happy.

Q. Do you change your pitching habits or your routine in cold weather, do you pitch
differently?

CHARLES NAGY: No, you don't change the way you pitch, you go out there and see what's
working on that certain day. And you pitch with your strengths.

Q. Charlie, in that last start you had against Baltimore, did that add a lot to your
confidence, the way you were losing a little bit before that point, what was your frame of
mind?

CHARLES NAGY: No, I felt like the time I pitched before, the first game I pitched
against Baltimore, I thought I threw the ball really well. I felt comfortable out there on
the mound. And as the last game went along, I started to throw the ball a lot better
again, and I felt good. And I gave up some hits. I gave up a lot of hits and pitched out
of some jams, but was able to do my job, whether it helped my confidence or not. I have
confidence in my ability, so it doesn't really matter.

Q. Charlie, all through the postseason the Indians have been labeled the underdogs.
Every time you go into the season you're the underdogs. Would you rather be playing in a
position like that or would you prefer having more respect out there?

CHARLES NAGY: I don't think it really matters at this point. We're in the World Series
right now, and we have three more games to win. And the Marlins are trying to win three
more games. It doesn't matter who's favored or not, this is the World Series and you take
each game one game at a time. And you go out there and you play as hard as you can that
day.

Q. In each of the three series, Hargrove has had some tough calls to make on the
pitching rotation and second base and other things. Is he good at breaking it to the guys?

CHARLES NAGY: He doesn't take you out to dinner and tell you (laughter.) We're all
professionals, we understand the situation, and he just comes up and tells you. He doesn't
sugarcoat anything or try to explain why he made his decision, he just comes out and tells
you, you're pitching this game or a certain guy is starting second base that day.

Q. Could you talk about being Marquis Grissom's teammate? What do you see from your
vantage point, the managers talk about how he's the ultimate professional and he's a
winner and all that kind of stuff. Can you describe a little more about what that means?

CHARLES NAGY: Marquis is a quiet guy, he doesn't say too much. But he goes out and
plays really hard. He plays every day. He wants to play every day. It doesn't matter if
he's in a hot streak or slumping a little bit, he's just out there. He's great to have
because you know he's giving 110 percent every time he goes out there. And he's going to
be out there every day and make some great plays in the outfield. He's a great guy to have
on the team.

Q. What do you remember about your World Series start in '95, and was it any different
than the preceding series that year? Was there more pressure?

CHARLES NAGY: It was cold then, too. We were down 0-2 coming home from Atlanta that
time. So it was a different situation. Other than that, no, I don't really remember
anything else about that.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about the fan support coming back to Jacob's Field and the
crowd being really rowdy in the previous two series and how much of a help is that?

CHARLES NAGY: The fans here have been unbelievable. The 10th man thing that they're
talking about now, it's kind of true. The way we've won games in the last two series we've
played, I think the fans have played a huge part in a lot of those wins. To come from
behind and win in New York, to the extra inning win against the Orioles. They were there
screaming and yelling the whole time, and you just feed from them. And without them I
don't know if we'd be where we are right now.

Q. Charles, some of the Marlins were saying that hitting in cold weather is tough,
especially when you get jammed a lot. You say you won't change your approach, but might
you come inside more because it's cold?

CHARLES NAGY: From what I understand it also hurts when you hit the bat, too. So
whether it's inside or outside, it's going to sting their hands a little bit. I'm a
sinker, slider guy. I move the ball in and out and change speeds and try to keep the
hitters off balance and get ground ball outs. If I come inside on righties or lefties to
do it, I'll do it. If it means going away on a certain situation, I'll do that, too.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT