BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2007
Norm Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NORM ROBERTS:  I thought it was a really highly-contested game.  Give Marquette a lot of credit.  They have got a terrific basketball team and they made a lot of big plays.  We did, as well, but they made a few more than we did. 

 Q.  A lot has been building up to this night, can you talk about the experience coming to the Garden? 
 NORM ROBERTS:  I thought the experience great.  I really enjoyed it.  It's probably the most fun I had coaching at St. John's to tell you the truth, with the pressure of the game and the atmosphere was awesome.  I thought our guys, I told our guys, enjoy every single moment of it. 
 That's why I told our guys to sit out there and watch some of the early game, you know, and now when we got back in the locker room after the game, I just told them, "Now when you take to you about postseason play and how important it is and how good it feels and all that stuff, you know what I mean now."  
 And hopefully our younger guys will be able to tell our freshmen coming in next year, that's why we have got to work so hard to try to get to this point. 

 Q.  Could you have expected any more out of Aaron Spears? 
 NORM ROBERTS:  No, he gave it his all.  Give Tom a lot of credit, Tom does a good job of rotating his big guys in there, so they try to wear your big guys down so they just depleted, just having three big guys. 

 Q.  Seemed like you stopped their guards pretty well. 
 NORM ROBERTS:  Yeah, Kinsella, he can really shoot.  He did a great job, Fitzgerald did a good job.  He's got such size, he's six-seven, six-eight, so he can really shoot over you, and he's a smart player. 
 I thought our guys did a good job.  I thought Larry Wright did a good job when he was in there.  Mason played his tail off.  He did a great job for us.  He hurt his hand a little bit while it was going on, and then Jaiulionis even did a great job on James.  You couldn't ask for a better job against such a great player. 

 Q.  You play on this court during the regular season.  Talk a little bit about how this game and protecting the home court. 
 NORM ROBERTS:  Well, we always want to protect the home court and we play our home games here and the Garden is always great to us and it's a great place to play.  We are going to get better as a program and hopefully we'll come out with wins instead of coming up short. 

 Q.  Marquette had extended a couple of double-digits leads in the second half, but you came back to fight and tie, what do you say about the character of your team? 
 NORM ROBERTS:  Well, they showed a lot of character.  They stayed tough, stayed within themselves.  We told them Marquette is going to make runs, they are a very good team and can do that.  We kind of withstood those runs, but the key was to rebound and get stops and they were able to do that on a few occasions. 

 Q.  Thoughts on an NIT bid? 
 NORM ROBERTS:  Love to play in the NIT.  I don't know if that happens, if it will or not.  If it does, we will be prepared and love to have a chance.  We would love to continue our season because I think our team is growing and getting better. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT