NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 11, 2017
Nyheim Hines
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NC State - 17, Boston College - 14   
 Q.  When did you figure out that your ankle was better and you were moving around and feeling more like yourself?  
NYHEIM HINES: I found out we have one of the best training staffs in the country.  Justin, he puts up with my complaining all week because my ankle hurts.  They do a great job of getting me ready for Saturdays, and I think that's the biggest thing.  Between them and the O-line, the training staff and the O-line, they do a great job of helping me play well on Saturday.   
 Q.  What turned out to be the game winner?  
NYHEIM HINES: I had patience.  I trusted in the line.  I had trusted Tony was going to reach the three technique and he did.  Really I just stayed on my track and made a play after that.  I had great blocking down field, so it wasn't really a big play for me.  Just everybody trying to finish, and it turned out to be the game-winning touchdown.   
 Q.  How does it feel that you had this win under your belt after back-to-back losses to top 5 teams?  Must feel good to get one under your belt?  
NYHEIM HINES: Feels great.  We knew this was going to be a challenge as well.  Boston always historically has a great defense.  They didn't disappoint.  They had a great defense.  They stopped us on a lot of third downs.  They made it a dog fight, and it came down to executing and straining for that one play.  It was just one play that helped us win the game.   
 Q.  Any thoughts ahead to a couple in-state games rivals, Wake and Carolina?  
NYHEIM HINES: Coach Doeren told us when he brought us together that we're basically playing for a championship.  We're trying to establish a brand of North Carolina State all over the state of Carolina.   
 Q.  What would you estimate you were at for Clemson, what percent?  
NYHEIM HINES: Maybe 75, 70%.  I don't know.  I think I played about 28 or 26 snaps.  But I was out there just straining to finish.  The line and all the players got me, and I was just trying to fight.  Each week I'm going to fight to do as many plays as I did, and I think I did more plays than last week and that's a goal.   
 Q.  You understand the N.C. State history.  After the crazy lateral from Jay Samuels, that kind of gifted them a touchdown, were you thinking what is this BC vex over us?  
NYHEIM HINES: Yeah, our track record is sometimes we like to not finish.  I think that's been the biggest difference between this year and last year.  We lost a lot of games in the fourth quarter.  Sometimes we were up touchdowns, sometimes it's a close game or tie game, but we somehow find a way to win rather than find a way to lose, which we did last year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT