CITI OPEN
August 1, 2019
Norbert Gombos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. GOMBOS/M. Kecmanovic   
1-6, 6-3, 7-6   
 Q.  This is quite the week, a little bit of turn of events.  How would you describe what the past 48, 72 hours have been like for you?  
NORBERT GOMBOS: Yeah, I mean, I was so happy at all that I get another chance to play here, and I know that like I was playing really good like previous weeks, and now I get the chance to play with the best players, and after yesterday's win I felt like I'm playing really well, so I can take a chance in advancing other rounds.   
Today I was playing really good.  Actually it was a close match, and I'm so happy that I won such a close match actually.  I'm really happy to be in the quarterfinals, and I'm really enjoying this moment.   
 Q.  What do you think has allowed you to enjoy the success these two days specifically in the matches?  
NORBERT GOMBOS: I think I already get used to it for conditions here because it's actually pretty different from other tournaments because actually it's pretty hot and humid, so it's different.  And that's why.  And now I know how -- I know the way how can I play, so I'm really happy, and of course I'm serving well, and the game from my side is really good.  That's really good from my side.  So hopefully I will play well in the next round.   
 Q.  You had the win in Winnipeg a few weeks ago over Schnur, but do Challengers put you in a position to have this type of success here, or does this even surprise yourself a little bit?  
NORBERT GOMBOS: Yeah, sure, to win the tournament is not actually easy for every player.  I mean, you have to win like a lot of matches, and if you win the tournament, it helps a lot for your confidence.  Maybe it's the success from these tournaments, and I can play with the best players here.  It's great to play and be here, of course.   
 Q.  What kind of adjustments did you make after the first set, and you lose the first set and then you come back and you eventually pull out the match in a tiebreak --  
NORBERT GOMBOS: Yeah, that's true.  In the first set I didn't play really well.  I had -- my serve wasn't really good.  I was always serving second serve, and Kecmanovic was putting me under pressure always, so I didn't feel comfortable actually.  I knew that I have to improve my serve, and that's what I did in the second set.   
My first set was much more better, and I was like winning easier the points, and helped of course the early break in the second set helps me a lot, so that was really good, so I knew that, okay, this is the way how can I win and I can play good.  So I was thinking that if I play like this, I can be like pretty close.  But I knew that like it's the way how can I win.   
 Q.  How would you describe him as a competitor, Kecmanovic?  
NORBERT GOMBOS: Yeah, I mean, he's a young player, and I played against him, and you can see that he has already like many experiences in these big tournaments, and he's in top 100.  He's already 60 in the world.  So he's already playing these tournaments, and he feels like he can play good.  And of course mentally he's really strong, so that's why he's there, and I knew that it wouldn't be like easy.  So I'm pretty happy that I beat such a good player.   
 Q.  When did you find out you would be taking Kevin's spot in the draw?  
NORBERT GOMBOS: The morning like -- I don't know, maybe like one and a half hours before my match.  I knew that like -- because I went there and I just signed up for lucky loser's spot, and I was told that Kevin might not play, so I was like pretty surprised because I knew that like maybe I won't play already.  I just came here and I was already set up for practices, so I didn't expect that I could play.  But I was so happy that I can play, and I get another chance, so that's why I'm here still.   
 Q.  Tomorrow night you'll be playing next door here in the stadium.  Have you played stadium-like matches before in large settings?  
NORBERT GOMBOS: Actually, yeah, I played a few tournaments in such big stadiums like here.  Yeah, I mean, finally I can feel the crowd and I'm feeling like finally I'm a pro because on all the Challengers Tour there is not such big stadiums, so finally I will be happy to play in such a great venue.  So hopefully I will try my best and hopefully it will be good.   
 Q.  I know you want to keep going, but quarterfinals of a 500 level, for you this is pretty good, huh?  
NORBERT GOMBOS: Yes, of course, of course.  I played already like many 500s but I never made the quarterfinals, and here especially it's pretty tough because everybody is trying to play good before US Open.  I cannot describe how I'm feeling now.  I'm so happy that I can be in the quarterfinals.   
 Q.  Where would you have been now?  You were here; were you going to stay here the whole week or what were your plans?  
NORBERT GOMBOS: No, actually was the last day when can I get in as the lucky loser, so I was just waiting, and if I knew that -- because I had already like the flight back home on Thursday, so I had to change my flight, and today again I have to change.  So already twice I have to change my flight back home.  But yeah, I mean, if I knew I won't get in as the lucky loser the next day I would go back home for preparing for US Open.   
 Q.  Over in Europe home?  
NORBERT GOMBOS: Yeah, Europe, yeah, in Slovakia.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT