DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP PLAY-OFF: SLOVAKIA v USA
September 12, 2014
Norbert Gombos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. ISNER/N. Gombos
  7‑6, 6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You must have thought in the first set it was really close, that you had a good chance there.   Talk a little bit about that first set against John. 
NORBERT GOMBOS:   Yeah, first set was about who will serve better.   I have many chances to break his serve, but he served really well. 
In the tiebreak, it was really close because I was 4‑2 up.   I did easy mistakes.   When he won that first set, he was more confident. 

Q.   How much did it hurt you that he was able to break you right away in the second set?
NORBERT GOMBOS:   Yeah, I was a little bit nervous because I know that he was serving really good.   I put like more pressure on my serve.   I did a bit more mistakes than in the first set.   I was quite nervous. 
I did easy mistakes, and he broke me in the second set. 

Q.   Didn't look like the surroundings were bothering you at all.   Early on, you looked very calm.   Did that change as the match went on?
NORBERT GOMBOS:   Yeah, well, I was good prepared for a match because I know how I expect this match.   I know that he's serving perfect like from the Eiffel Tower, you know. 
For me, it was just think about the serve, trying to focus on my serve, my game.   But unfortunately he's player from top 20 so he has more experience and also confidence. 
For me was good experience to play player like John. 

Q.   Talk a little bit more about that Eiffel Tower serve.   What is it like facing a John Isner serve?
NORBERT GOMBOS:   I never returned a serve like his because it's quite different from like the other players because he is really tall.   The ball is bouncing so high.   It's totally different like from the other players. 
But in the first set I was returning quite well.   I was surprised.   He won the first set, he was more relaxed.   He was serving much better like in the first set. 
It was really tough to return his serve. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT