NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
April 2, 2021
Christyn Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  Arizona 69, Connecticut 59
 THE MODERATOR:   We are now joined by student-athlete Christyn Williams.  We'll take questions.
 Q. You seemed out of sorts offensively from the get-go there.  What did they do specifically that got you out of your rhythm, why you weren't able to adjust from that?
 CHRISTYN WILLIAMS:   I thought we probably came out -- let me start over.  Sorry.
 I think we came out with the wrong mentality.  I thought we thought it was going to be easy, I guess, and we got flustered.  They had great ball pressure.  It wasn't like anything that we've seen before this season.  We just couldn't get in the flow offensively.
 Q. The loss obviously really fresh, but what do you think you're going to remember most about this season individually and also as a team?
 CHRISTYN WILLIAMS:   I mean, I'm going to take away from this season how close we are as a team.  Those are my sisters and I'd do anything for them.  That's something I'll definitely remember.
 Something individually?  How far I've come this season and the growth that I've had in my game.  That's something that I will remember.
 Q. What were some of the things that Arizona did defensively that was different than what you might have game planned for?
 CHRISTYN WILLIAMS:   They had great ball pressure.  They picked up full court all game.  They trapped the ball screens.  That's something that we haven't really seen throughout the season.  So we struggled with it.  We couldn't really get into a rhythm offensively.
 Q. Talk about the youth on your team and how you guys were all able to come together and have as much success as you did.
 CHRISTYN WILLIAMS:   I mean, yeah, we have a lot of guys that haven't been in this position before.  So I'm just very proud that we made it this far.  I mean, obviously it sucks that we lost in the Final Four.  But we came a long way this season.  That just goes to show how much better we can be down the road because we do have a lot of young guys.  Hopefully this experience will help us moving forward.
 Q. What did you see from the foul call when you fouled out of the game, what your thoughts were on that?
 CHRISTYN WILLIAMS:   Well, I mean, the officiating was different this game.  Me personally, I didn't think it was a foul on me, I thought it was on Liv.  I knew I had four fouls, so obviously I was devastated because I had to go out of the game.  It was, like, three or four minutes left in the fourth quarter.  Obviously I wanted to be out there.  Just how it went.
 Q. With such a young team, with the majority of you guys returning, how do you think you can continue to grow moving forward, especially with the young kids, how much they've grown throughout the season?
 CHRISTYN WILLIAMS:   I mean, we don't have any seniors, so everybody's going to be back.  We're just going to build on what we did this season, just build on everything offensively and defensively.  I think we can be a lot better, to sharpen up a lot of things.
 There's always room for growth.
 Q. It seemed like they had an answer in the second half for every run you'd go on.  How disheartening was that every time you chipped away, they seemed to find a way to answer back?
 CHRISTYN WILLIAMS:   I mean, what do you think?  I mean, yeah, they had an answer for everything.  Obviously you watched the game.  Anybody that watched the game know.  I mean, it's devastating.  We had to get stops and then we had to score.  If we score and we don't get stops, the score is going to be the same, so...
 I didn't really like that question.
 Q. A big picture question.  You obviously made big strides late in the year.  What can you take from that heading into your off-season, your senior year?
 CHRISTYN WILLIAMS:   What can I take from?
 Q. From the growth that you had down the stretch defensively, offensively.  What do you take from that?
 CHRISTYN WILLIAMS:   I mean, try to limit as many ups and downs as I can next season.  Just continue to grow my game and be more consistent.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you for your time this evening.
 CHRISTYN WILLIAMS:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT