AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2015
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. MURRAY/G. Dimitrov  6-4, 6-7, 6-3, 7-5  An interview with:  GRIGOR DIMITROV   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Did you feel like you were a bit jinxed at the end?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Jinxed or not, when you play a match like that, you don't actually think about anything.  I'm not going to hide my disappointment.  I'm pissed.   Q.  That was a bad call on the serve, the one that had to be replayed?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: I guess when it comes to moments like that, everything is in the game.  Obviously it was supposed to happen that way.   Q.  Murray said it came down to a bit of luck.  Is that your view, or do you feel there are other things you could have done?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: You mean me playing my game?   Q.  Yes.  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Of course.  I mean, if you lose you obviously haven't done some things right.  You know, I'm happy that I competed at a good level and it takes a player like Andy to beat me like that.  You know, I'm just disappointed because it's not the result that I wanted.  For sure I could have done things better, some things better.   Q.  You were leading 5-2 and it was deuce.  You hit a forehand on the line.  The line judge called it wide.  Murray's shot was wide.  Do you think that was a breaking point of the match?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: No.  I don't think this is a breaking point.  Especially when it comes to points like that, you don't think about it.  You just want to focus for the next shot, for the next point.  I mean, I thought it was just a weird call because he actually played the ball and the ball went out, and then I don't know.  I don't even remember anymore, so...  It's in the past.   Q.  The level of the match seemed good.  You both played well.  Does that give you any kind of satisfaction?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, I think this is what is expected, to come out there and play a match like that.  Satisfaction?  That's very hard to say.  I mean, that's hard to say.  You know, it's also good for me to see what I did good, what I can do better next time.  I think Andy played a really high level throughout the whole match.  Not going to hide that.  I mean, that I could have done things better?  Yes, I could have at certain moments, but that doesn't justify the match.   Q.  Do you think he played well enough to go much deeper in the tournament?  Do you see him as a strong favorite now?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: I think only the upcoming matches would show that.  I say it's till early in the tournament.  Even though it's quarterfinals, the next rounds, anything can happen.  I mean, if you play, if you compete, the odds are on your side.   Q.  Do you feel you should have taken more risks in the match or are you happy with the way it went?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: No, I don't think I should have done anything different.  I had a clear game plan and I knew what I wanted to do.  I was actually pretty relaxed.  And coming out there on the court, I just felt that I've played matches on this kind of court before, I knew the opponent, and so in a way I was really composed with the way I wanted to play and what I wanted to do on the court.  As I said, you know, you always can do something better.  But taking risk or not, it's a whole other story.   Q.  Do you feel Andy really stepped it up in the fourth set when you were 5-2 up?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, I thought he returned really good today.  My serve wasn't at the level that I wanted.  I think that sort of made the biggest difference.  If you think about it, it was just one break.  You never have a guarantee that, you know, you're going to win the set.  I mean, Andy's a great returner, so you always got to pick your spots pretty good.  If not, you know he's going to get the ball back.  Of course, that puts a little bit more pressure on your side.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT