AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2015
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  G. DIMITROV/M. Baghdatis  4-6, 6-3, 3-6, 6-3, 6-3  An interview with:  GRIGOR DIMITROV   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Reward for the physical work you've been putting in?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah.  Where should I start from?  Tough game.  I mean, obviously it was a tough game for me.  Didn't really feel comfortable on the court.  Thought Marcos was playing dominating tennis early on in the match.  I wasn't really able to turn things around as fast as I wanted to.  I felt quite good physically, which was I think the best sign for me today.  I'm not going to hide my excitement of winning the match because it meant a lot to me.  To be able to play three and a half hours and win 6-3 in the fifth and feelin really good after the match physically, that says a lot for me.  Just getting ready for the next one.   Q.  A couple days ago you called Maria the greatest fighter ever.  What about the match today, the fight that you showed?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: I just said matches like that really defines I think who you are and how you want to be, I don't know, remembered, your nickname, whatever you guys want to call it.  I just feel that matches like that, it's really important to win, even if it's not on your best days.  I think this is how you go forward.  Today was one of those days for me, that I didn't really feel good on the court, wasn't really comfortable with my game, but I found a way to fight through it two sets to one down.  To me that says a lot.  In the same time, gives me a lot of confidence.   Q.  Do you think 18 months ago, two years ago, you might have let that match go?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Let it go (smiling)?  I'm sure I wouldn't perform that way, that's for sure.  But, you know, I think that's in the past.  I'm happy that I've worked my way through that stage and that I'm going to be better from now on.   Q.  Why do you think you weren't feeling comfortable today?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Because it's not every day you wake up in the morning and you feel 100% to play tennis, you know.  Especially on days like that, it's really important to keep your sanity, you know, give what you got, play with what you have.  So to me was just one of those days that pretty much nothing was going my way.  But the only thing I had was like my composure, my physicality that really came through in the fifth set.  I thought I played smart when I had to.  I think that made a lot of big difference, especially in his game.  I thought he was performing really well.  I thought he played a really good tennis.  So I just had to come up with some extra stuff from me, and I think I did.   Q.  Did you have some shoe issues?  You switched two or three times.  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, but it's all in the frame.  I think I finished the match with shoes on my feet, so that's good.  Yeah, I have enough to finish the tournament with.   Q.  Andy took the first set 6-1.  If it's going to be him in the next round, how much do you look forward to that matchup?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, it's a great matchup for me.  I'm always excited to play against him.  You know, I had a tough loss against him in Paris.  So, you know, it's a good matchup.  I always like that kind of challenge.  I think physically and mentally I'm ready to play that match and really give 100% from myself.  I'm going out there to win the match.  So there's nothing else I can say about it.   Q.  Do you look at your Wimbledon quarterfinal as maybe the best match you played at a slam so far?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Maybe.  I would say maybe.  But I don't really think so.  It just happened for me on that day to really play good.  I thought I really played good on that day.  I use every single mistake that he did.  I'm sure if I play him in the next round he's going to be really focused and composed and wants to do everything to stop me.  In the same time, I'm feeling really ready, and I like my chances every time I go out on the court.  So I think it's going to be a great matchup.   Q.  Are you expecting a different Murray from that day?  He was very flat on that day.  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, I think you hardly ever see like top players to feel really flat early on in the match.  I think it's a different scenario this time.  I think he has a lot to look forward to.  I think adding up the new team, I think it's all fresh.  I think it's going to give him a bit more excitement to compete, which I'm certainly aware of.  But in the same time, I feel that I'm pretty stable around me as well.  I think the only thing I can do is get out there and play my tennis.   Q.  It was twice last year.  Was there anything particularly you did both matches that that you think will come to you forefront?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Played only once at a Grand Slam.  As I said, just that day it was not him out there on the court.  I think we all know that.  I think all the other matches have been always close against him.  We always had good battles.  We know how we play, so there's no secrets out on the court, which is in a way nice to have.  At least you know what to expect.  I think it's going to come down to those kind of little moments that we can use.   Q.  You gave a passionate salute to your box today.  How has Roger helped you on days like today?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: I thought I was really calm and composed throughout the match today.  I think this is what I really needed today.  I couldn't really push myself even more.  But deep down I knew what I had to do.  I knew what I wanted also from my team, to cheer me up in a certain way.  I mean, I'm sure they believed in me throughout the whole match, so I knew I had their backup.  In the end, I just really pulled it through in a manner that I wanted to.  You know, it's all teamwork.   Q.  What you said about Maria the other day, did she have anything to say about your praise?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: You should ask her about that (smiling).   Q.  The atmosphere was charged on Show Court 3 with all the cheering.  Did you feel strong support from your fans?  Did that help you?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Always.  You know, it's always.  But Marcos has always been a favorite guy out here.  Of course, the crowd was cheering that's in the game, and you just got to embrace it.  I like it.  I mean, I like it when the atmosphere is like that.  Actually fills me up with a positive thoughts.  At the same, time it's nice to prove someone wrong.   Q.  Gives you something to hit against?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: I wish I could have hit a ball in some other direction, but that's not the case.  I think also those kind of matches really help you through mentally.  I think I played also quite a few matches, Davis Cup matches, that got me through situations like that.  For me it wasn't something new that I was discovering, but in the same time it felt kind of nice.   Q.  You and Andy still good friends?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: I think we respect each other.  We say hi to each other.  No hard feelings.  When you get to the court, everything's changing, right?  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT