AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2015
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  G. DIMITROV/L. Lacko  6-3, 6-7, 6-3, 6-3  An interview with:  GRIGOR DIMITROV   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Would you mind talking about what men's rivalry has been sort of the most impressionable on you, whether it's coming up or now, in men's tennis?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Whew, I don't know.  Personally for me, I haven't felt that there's a rivalry at the moment to play against one player over and over again.  I mean, obviously, so to speak, the younger generation, the younger guys are really pushing through and winning rounds.  If you can call that a rivalry, maybe that's the way it is.  But, you know, so far in a way it's early in the tournament to say that.  In general, the year just began.  Let it unfold a little bit before we jump into any conclusion.   Q.  What about for you when you were younger?  Were you a tennis fan growing up when you were a kid?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, I'm not that young anymore if you think about it, but definitely growing up of course I had idols.  I've looked up to a lot of players, following their success, their path.  But I think now all that is behind me.  I'm doing my own personality in my own way.  So I think that's good.   Q.  Have you been surprised by Lukas Lacko?  He played a solid game today.  GRIGOR DIMITROV: I know him well enough.  I think we've played once or twice before.  Can be a dangerous player.  I mean, of course he's playing pretty flat.  He moves all around the court pretty well.  He played a really good second set.  After that I had a good momentum throughout the whole match.  I think I was in control ever since that set.   Q.  Within yourself, do you think you're ready to win a slam or do you think you might have a little ways to go?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: If you ask me, of course I'd say yes.  But that's something that I definitely need to show I think throughout all the matches and be even more consistent.  If I'm ready?  Yeah, I think I'm ready.  But before you get to the final or something like that, you need to go through quite a few players that are the top right now and playing their greatest tennis.  I think the game has evolved so much in the past years that instead of getting easier, it's getting harder.  I think you have a lot of guys, they have more experience, they're older, they're fitter.  You have that on the radar.  But in the same time, you know, I've worked throughout my career so far to position myself in those kind of matches.  I'm out there to win those ones, so I think I'm aiming higher.   Q.  Maria scored an incredible come-from-behind win today.  Can I ask you what makes her so tough?  GRIGOR DIMITROV: I think days like that defines who you are.  It's simple.   Q.  And the definition of Maria is just...  GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, I think I should be the last person to sort of judge that, but I think you can't name one thing in particular with her.  I think she's been fighting throughout all those years, through everything that is in her way, jumped all the hurdles and all the obstacles.  By far the greatest fighter ever.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT