ROGERS CUP MEN
August 8, 2014
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. DIMITROV/K. Anderson
  5‑7, 7‑5, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you believe you survived that one?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, I mean, now I can.   But it wasn't as much fun when you're 4‑5 down and your opponent is actually serving for the match.  
Good escape, good escape.   Certainly a lot to look forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a bit about what it was about the match that you kind of canceled each other out a bit at times, yourself and Kevin?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   You mean...  
   
 Q.   That it was such an even match.   What was it about his match that gave you such problems?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Kevin is a big hitter.   Obviously he serves really big when he has to back himself up on a lot of points.  
You know, I knew what to expect against him.   I have played him I don't even know how many times already, and I don't remember us having a straight‑set match.  
I knew in a way that he can serve himself out of the situation or any of that, but I think we didn't play at our best, both of us, but still when it came down to those big points, I think it was a lot about the mental toughness and what situation you want to put yourself in to win the point.  
I think in the end I was just a little bit stronger on that side, and I just went for the shots that I know I can win.   I knew eventually that he might just crack at some point.   I was looking for that little window for me.  
I think I got it in the last two games, especially in the tiebreak.   I think it was just well played in the end.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it came down to mental toughness in the end?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Well, what do you think?   
   
 Q.   It seemed at times that your body language was almost defeated, and then you saw the crack and you brought yourself back up again and it became like the mental strength that you had.   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Well, I was 40‑15 down if you think about it in the last game, so what else can I do except try to put the ball in the court and win the point.  
But I strongly believe, and of course I was really believing in myself toward the end because I knew that one point can turn everything around.  
Next thing you know, at 40‑15 he missed a few easy shots.   I think that's a mental toughness.  
But again, it could have happened I think to anyone in those moments.   The easiest shots are the toughest shots.   You know, I know how it feels.  
   
 Q.   You took a bit of a spill at one point and you seemed to kind of favor one knee for a little while.   How is that knee feeling?   Is everything okay?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I didn't hit my knee.   I hit my bum.  
   
 Q.   Your bum?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How is that?   Is that okay?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, it's okay (smiling).  
   
 Q.   Is it all right for the next match?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   It will be good as new (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Generally your career is kind of moving along at a kind of straight trajectory, like a linear trajectory, whereas a lot of other players kind of who were coming up, they have big wins and then their ranking goes up and then it goes down and they disappear for a year or two, whereas you seem to be building something kind of in a straight line.   Is that something that you think about and are working on?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Well, slowly but surely, right?   
I honestly haven't thought about that.   I think everyone has his own way of doing things.   Everyone works in a different way.   A lot of things work for different people, for different players.  
So I never thought of that.   I never wanted my scenario to be that way.   I think I have gone through a lot of things on and off the court in my life, and I think I have learned the hard way for certain things.   So that's why I think just everything goes just, you know, step by step for me.   
It's nothing too big, but in the same time it's not something that I neglected or put aside.   Of course I appreciate all the wins that I have and I cherish the losses.   So to me that's something I have to go through obviously.   
I never had a scenario for that.   I just wanted to compete.   I think with each year that I'm on the tour I'm starting to actually enjoy my battles even more, and I'm starting to live for those moments when you're 4‑All, 5‑All.   This is when this nice feeling, nice butterflies comes to you and you test yourself, and I'm starting to feel in a really comfortable zone.   I like to establish myself as a player like that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT