WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2014
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. DIMITROV/A. Dolgopolov
  6/7, 6/4, 2/6, 6/4, 6/1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   It all seemed to change on that backhand that hit the baseline to take you to 5‑4. 
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, the slice shot.   Yeah, I mean, what can I say?   First of all, I think it was a good fight throughout the whole match.   Alex is a tricky opponent to play.   The only thing, my game wasn't at my best level today.   The only thing I could do is just stay in the match and fight with every chance that I had during the match.   I had to basically use it and try to break him down. 
I think he came out of the match really intrigued, and I just had to just play a better tennis in the end. 

Q.   Were you surprised how quickly the final set went?   I think he won seven points. 
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   You know, as soon as I had that break in the fifth set, you know, I knew I that could close it up fast.   I saw his movement changed a little bit.   His shots were becoming lighter and lighter.   I just had to put my foot down and really close it up the best way possible. 
I was happy I was able to do it that fast. 

Q.   Is this where all the hard work on and off the court really pays off?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, I mean, obviously, as I said, it's one of those days that the game wasn't there.   I had to count on something else.   I had enough fuel in my body to go through the match.   I was just physically really strong, you know.   I knew that the deeper the match goes, the better odds I have of winning it. 
That fifth set proved a lot to me today. 

Q.   From the outside looking in, you seem to actually quite relish it turning into a little bit of a scrap out there.   I'm wondering where that fighting spirit comes from in you. 
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Again, I think all those hours that I've been putting on the court, when it comes down to a few points here and there, it really plays a little bit of a mental battle in your head and rises you up.   You live for those moments as a player. 
It's a good opportunity for you to get into that second week.   You're in the fifth set, all that atmosphere embraces you in a different way, and you feel inspired. 
Today I felt inspired throughout the whole match, even though I had a few downs.   I just played with what I had today. 

Q.   In terms of your background, as a child growing up, have you always had that kind of character?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, I mean, I pretty much think so.   I've always been a fighter.   I always want to fight when it comes down to matches.   I can get pretty feisty sometimes. 
I'm finding a good balance for me.   It just helps me on court.   But I think the work that I've put with Roger throughout all the months really pays off in that way, as well. 
I think it's all combined. 

Q.   It might be a little bit surprising to some people because obviously as a player you're quite known for your elegance, the beauty of your shot‑making.   It's nice to see the scrappy fighting elements. 
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I mean, not every day you wake up and feel at your best.   You have to do anything you can to win the match. 
Today I was capable of doing pretty much everything that I had to do.   I knew I didn't play one of my best shots or I was not playing beautiful tennis.   But, you know, it's in the game.   In the end it doesn't matter if you're going to win crappy or if you're going to lose beautiful.   I'd rather win that way. 
That actually gives me another chance, another look for the next match what I can do better.   That's my goal, to be better. 

Q.   Last year you had a heartbreaking loss in five sets here.   Now you're stronger.   Did it help you that you had that tough experience last year?   Did you think about it today?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I think you always think about moments like that, regardless if it's that tournament or any other ones. 
I was really positive coming into Wimby that year.   This year has been a better preparation.   Obviously I had a great week before that, winning Queen's.   Of course, that gives me extra hype, extra excitement. 
Still, you don't have to forget one of those moments that you fail.   I think because of those moments, you know, I've prided myself on some of the matches that I played so far.   Some of my mental strength comes from that.   I was able to overcome that. 
It's a great feeling. 

Q.   I'm sure you knew part of what you were letting yourself in for when you brought Roger onboard.   Has it been tougher work than you expected?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   No, I don't look at it that way.   I love working.   I enjoy working with him.   I think sometimes it's not even enough. 
That's how it's been.   He's the one that brings definitely those little details of my game and I think of my mentality as a player.   It's something nice to have between a coach and a player. 

Q.   Respectfully you're a player with a number of nicknames.   Some people call you Baby Fed.   Some call you Mr. Sharapova now. 
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I didn't know that. 

Q.   Do you feel a bit like with this run now, you can make your own name?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   People will judge anyway.   What can I say?   I think I've grown through all the nicknames by now.   I think it's time for everyone to kind of come up with something better. 
I think all those things are starting to fade away.   I'm proving myself not only as a player but as a person outside of the court.   So to me it's much more valuable. 

Q.   Mayer up next.   Is that a surprise?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I obviously haven't seen any of him.   I don't think any round is a surprise here.   Nowadays everyone is playing good.   Everyone is fighting to get further in the tournament. 
The one thing is I'm not planning on underestimating my opponent, whoever I'm playing the next round.   Again, I'm focused only on my game and how I'm going to bounce back from that match today.   Just need to get out with the right attitude.

Q.   What is your record against him?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I've never played him. 

Q.   How do you want to be regarded?   Does that come back to the fighting spirit you showed today?   Is that the way you would like people to see you?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   It would have been better if I won in three, straight sets, I'm not going to lie to you. 
But when it comes down to matches like that, yeah.   I think I want to create my own legend, my own trademarks.   I'm the only player that is playing out there on the court, so everything is in your hands. 
You have the choice, the opportunities, the varieties, to make something. 

Q.   You said you wanted to make changes at the US Open because you weren't happy with your fitness.   Do you still consider yourself a work in progress? 
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, I think I'm just at the beginning.   I still have a lot of things to work on.   I think it's a good way of thinking because if you think that you've reached the top, this is where you don't improve. 
For me the most important thing is to improve, to get better every day, every match I play in, and take one step at a time. 
I never wanted to be one of those that takes numerous steps to the front and settle with that, then wait till the next big thing comes.   It's all or nothing.

Q.   Millions of Bulgarians are following your matches with excitement.   Do you ever think about the fans back home when you play?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I always think about the fans at home.   Luckily when I was back home after Miami, they were showing some of my matches, the excitement of the people.   It makes me happy, makes me happy to see that.   I'm happy that people in general are engaging with that sport in Bulgaria and it's developing in a good way. 

Q.   How often do you go back to Bulgaria?   You're almost in a different world now to what you grew up in. 
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, every time I get a chance, I'm happy to go back, see my family, all the relatives.   But I can't name a number.   Any chance I get, yeah. 

Q.   At least once a year?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Oh, yeah, more than once.   That's for sure. 

Q.   How are you going to celebrate today's victory?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   It's getting late.   I'm just looking forward to getting food and get to bed. 

Q.   Most of the top players name Raonic and you as the next generation.   Do you feel proud or do you feel pressure for that? 
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   In a way it's nice to hear it, but I think, so to speak, the youngest generation, we all look for what we are looking for.   I don't think we ever listen or hear. 
I'm like that in particular.   I don't listen to those things.   I just want to take my way and have my team around in the surroundings which is the most important thing and focus on what I have to do. 
I think it's important thing for me to just keep that way, not paying much attention to anything else around. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT