US OPEN
September 1, 2019
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. DIMITROV/A. De Minaur   
7-5, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You really seemed to limit his chances today, one opportunity to break. How well are you feeling?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, it's a great match. Physically I was feeling really well. I was able to just neutralize everything that was thrown at me. I think I served pretty good percentage of first and second serves. I played right at the important moments. That was that, honestly.   
I mean, also I felt he was getting a little bit tired in the middle of the second set. I played really well when I had to. I stepped in in the important moments. Yeah, I just kept on having a great composure throughout the whole match. Yeah, finished pretty strong.   
 Q.  How does it feel to be going to the quarters?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Amazing, yeah. Absolutely amazing. I mean, I don't take anything for granted, especially this tournament, this time. Yeah, I think everything is onboard. I've worked for it the past weeks. I've put a lot of, as I said, hours on the court and off the court.   
You just never know. I mean, tennis is like this. You just never know when a little bit of luck smiles at you. You also have to seize your opportunity. Today was, again, one of those days I really had to go after it as well.   
 Q.  Who are you working with right now?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: My team.   
 Q.  Do you have a coach?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah. Stepanek and Agassi.   
 Q.  Stepanek is still with you?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Absolutely.   
 Q.  Alex said you brought the 'old Grigor' back today. How much would you agree with how much closer your level is getting? How does it feel to be able to wipe away the summer?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: There's no such a thing as old and new Grigor. Only way is forward. Overall I feel like a different person, a different player. I mean, there's no point to sit here and talk about the past six, seven months, to welcome everybody to my pity party.   
It is what's. I faced the adversity, faced everything I had to. Back on the court is always a great feeling. I'm back. I'm enjoying it, as well. I'm feeling free. Of course when you get out on the court, you can't hide.   
Again, I was really happy that I was able to play just a very composed match. I was reading the game well. I was moving well, returning well, serving well. Above all, mentally I was very stable.   
I think those are the things that really matter to me right now. That's why I don't want to compare what old me or new me means. We just look forward.   
 Q.  How excited are you for the opportunity for your next match? Are you excited right now to have such an opportunity?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I think it's an opportunity to play out on that court. No more than that, of course. Given the history of me and Roger, how we've played the past years, nothing had favored me. But it is what it is right now.   
I'm very appreciative of where I'm at right now. I'm very appreciative of what I've gone through and what I'm going through. I'm exactly where I should be. Again, I could never predict, after a summer like, that beginning of the year like that, that I'm going to be out here. But I'm here.   
Excitement? Yes. So was every other feeling you could possibly think. But it's one of the most important things, not to look too far ahead. Enjoy the moment for a second, appreciate the situation, and we move on. Hopefully in a couple of days I'll be sitting here again.   
 Q.  Roger said you know each other well. How is it to play against him?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I don't know. I mean, I know everybody on tour. There's no difference.   
In the past we've played. We've practiced quite a bit against each other, especially in the past weeks. Played couple exhibitions here and there. Clearly we know each other pretty well.   
I don't know. It's a great moment to be at. I think it's a great opportunity for both of us to be out here, I would say. It's the US Open court. Hopefully we have a great battle and we can produce some great tennis.   
 Q.  Is there anything you feel that's been clicking at this tournament as you've gone on?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I think one of the things I would say is very important to me is with every match you kind of build up a momentum, you're starting to find your grip, your way around the court.   
I started playing on Court 11, so that was not the easiest thing to do, going from a small court to bigger court to bigger court. Again, those are the steps you need to take in order to push through that barrier.   
For me, that's the most important thing, putting in the right work every single day, whether you're playing or not. That's what I've been doing, whether it's an off day or the walkover in the second round. Whatever it is, I kept on going forward, just tried to look in that particular moment what I can do well, what I can do better.   
You put that little brick every single day. You control the things that you can control. That's what I've been focusing on the most.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT