AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 12, 2014
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. DIMITROV/E. Roger‑Vasselin
  7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Was that fairly comfortable for you?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah.   I just made it a little complicated the first set after letting that break down, but obviously it was a comfortable match for me.   I think it was a great atmosphere today, great weather.
You know, felt comfortable on the court, so that's something that definitely adds up especially when you feel good.
Yeah, it was one of those days that I had to go through the match the best way possible and save a lot of energy.   Luckily I got through in two sets.

Q.   Is it easy to stay quite calm when you lost the break?   Do you get a bit angry? 
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Well, it's no fun, to be honest.   It's no fun, just how much work you have put in to get to that point, and, you know, serve out for the set, and then you play a few loose points here and there and next thing you know your opponent is on top of the game, it's Love‑30, and he goes for an extra shot that actually comes in.   Next thing you know, you know, you're back against the wall.
That definitely adds a little bit more pressure.   You know, your energy is going a whole other level.
My point was to maintain a good level to the end of the match with minimum effort throughout the whole game.   It felt really comfortable in the end, and finishing in that way was certainly something that I was happy with.

Q.   In the surface shift to grass, you have to move somewhat differently, so which muscles are hurting you most right now?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I have been practicing a lot actually the past week.   I have been doing a lot of running.   I did around 25 miles the whole week of running, so it adds up a little bit definitely on the quads, the glutes, but I think the part that really hurts the most on grass is the lower back, the glutes, and the adductors.   I think those are the parts that always, even if you play the shortest two sets, the next day you're gonna come back and feel a little funky.
That's something that me in particular don't really care anymore, because with or without pain, it doesn't really matter.

Q.   You obviously had a lot of time after the French Open after the loss.   What do you do after a loss?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   First of all I had to dwell a little bit on the disappointment.   I think that's very important for a player to ‑‑well, for me in particular, to, you know, to just sit down and try to rest a few days and kind of analyze what has been going on throughout the whole weeks, because when you have a lot of weeks in a row, you actually forget a lot of things around you.   You forget what you've done, the work that you've put in, the amount of hours on the court.
So there is always that little extra three, four days that, you know, you can just take off and kind of, you know, breathe a little bit and get excited for something else, for something new.
My new project was grass, so I came here earlier and started hitting here as soon as I felt really comfortable and healthier, so to speak.   You know, I felt rejuvenized as soon as I came out here and just felt really good.   That put a smile on my face.

Q.   Gulbis said he went to the casino after Roland Garros.   Is that not you?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   No, I don't know what he did.   I have no idea what he did. 
But, no, I'm definitely, I don't say laid back when it comes to that.   I'm not into those things.   But, you know, there's other ways for things to do in the spare time.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT