AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 10, 2014
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. DIMITROV/J. Ward
  7‑5, 6‑3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 
Q.   Did you feel pretty comfortable out there?
  GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah.   Yeah, it feels nice.   Feels nice to be back on that court.   I think it's never easy to play those first matches, especially when you play against a Brit.   I think that adds a little bit extra tension on you, but I'm happy I'm through the match. 
  But a good start, a good start for me.   Looking forward.
Q.   Do you think the early exit at the French might be a blessing in disguise?
  GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I wouldn't call it that way, because I think all that summer I have been working a lot to get to that point where I come out at the French Open and really play some good tennis.   Unfortunately this year was one of my darkest out there. 
  Of course I'm not happy about that.   I'm still dwelling on it.   But in the same time, I have it as a positive thing.   I have been here quite a few days already and been playing a good practice season on the grass, been working a lot in the gym.
  I mean, there's always something good and positive.   That result especially at the French was just a tough moment for me considering that I played really good other tournaments on clay before that and I was just extremely good on the clay. 
  It was just a little bit of a false start out there, but it happens.   It's in the game, and that gave me extra days out here.
Q.   What's your approach this year going into Wimbledon? 
  GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I mean, my approach, I'd say my goal is to become a member at Wimbledon the easiest way possible.   That is to win seven matches.   (Laughter.)
  Q.Do you think that's possible?
  GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, I do believe that's possible. 
  But I think first everything step by step.   I'm here at Queen's right now focusing on the matches.   Of course it would be great to get as many matches as possible and just play good tennis. 
  I think at the moment it is really a good time for me to just compete, you know.   The grass, there is a lot of big hitters nowadays, a lot of good servers. 
  I think that's a really good test.   From my point of view, it's a good test for me mentally and physically to see where we are at at the moment and what we have to work, and it's been a long first half part of the season.
  So of course everyone is a little tired, but in the same time this is where, you know, it all happens.   All I have is just positive vibes every time I'm out here, and I think in England in general I feel quite comfortable.   I think I have to take one day at a time.
Q.   The crowd here really seems to take to you.   Do you enjoy that?
  GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, indeed.   It's always a good feeling. 
  I mean, I have played this tournament I believe five years ago first time, and I think ever since then I have had this special relationship, so to speak, with the people here, with the tournament.   It's just a great atmosphere.
  You know, it's a historical court.   So in the end of the day, I don't see the downsides of any of that.   Just gotta come out here and just smile and do your best.
Q.   You know another member of The Old England Club quite well.   What do you see as the benefits of being a member of Wimbledon, then?
  GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Well, it's just history.   Who doesn't want to be a part of history?   In the end of the day, I have played juniors out there, I won the Wimbledon juniors, so of course it's a dream for me to win the real thing.   Why not? 
  Again, I just think that it's something very special.   People in that area, the people that are surrounded by tennis and what we do, it's really appreciated in a very specific way that is very, I think in my eyes, very valuable.
  So it's something definitely to look out for.
Q.   Do you like cucumber sandwiches?
  GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Cucumber sandwiches?   (Laughter.)   Actually, I haven't tried that.
Q.   That's what you have there when you go for tea. 
  GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Really?   Are they pickles?   Just cucumbers.   (Laughter.)   That's great.
Q.   The Rally For Bally bracelet, everyone seems to really be getting behind that cause.   Is it a big part of the tournament?
  GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Well, I think when all that happened I think ‑‑ I believe I was in Madrid.   Everyone came out on the court.   Luckily enough I was supposed to play last match, so I came out there.   Even though I didn't really know her that well, as everyone said, it's just paying a tribute to one of us. 
  I mean, I believe everyone ‑‑in that sport, everyone is equal because we do the same thing.   We hit that yellow fuzzy ball.   Of course it's a pity for something to end up that way, but I think everyone has been really behind that cause.
  Whoever could help or be part of something was always there, and I notice actually Andy was one of the fewest people that was just behind any single action at any single meeting or anything that had to do with that, so he was one of the first ones.   I pay big respect to that.
Q.   How important do you think this tournament is to take form into Wimbledon?
  GRIGOR DIMITROV:   It is important.   I mean, it's the first time on grass.   Especially if you don't play any other tournament after here, I think it's even more important.
  So to me I have it as a really big event.   I think a lot of the players really underestimate the power of that tournament, but I think a lot of players have basically started their path on the grass court from here.
  So that shows that it's a really important tournament and it's important for you to come out here and play good tennis and win matches.
  I mean, we all know that grass is a specific surface, it's never easy to play on it, but you just gotta be aware of it.
Q.   Andy said on Sunday that come this tournament and come the grass court season there is a buzz in the locker room.   Everyone is maybe a bit happier again because it's been a long clay court season.   Is that how you feel?
  GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, it's always fun when you open up a new page and it's always nice to get something fresh.
  You know, no more dust on your bag and no more clay court shoes.   Everyone is pretty happy with that.
  But as I said, I think it's just the whole atmosphere changes throughout the year.   We have been traveling a lot, and next thing you know you're coming on the grass and it's very different.   It's like ‑‑for me, it's really like a whole new place.   It's a completely different ball game, completely different mindset as soon as I step on a grass court. 
  I have always been excited.   It's a feeling I always had.   Even if I was at my worst or not feeling good playing, there was always a smile as soon as I step on the court. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT