ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2014
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 I. KARLOVIC/G. Dimitrov
      6‑4, 7‑5, 7‑6 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Tough luck today.   Can you talk about the match and what kind of difficulties you felt you were facing?  
    GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Well, it's never easy to play against Ivo.   Of course, it's a big disappointment for me, losing first round of the tournament.   I like my chances here.   Been playing good tennis on the clay courts, so I don't want to be too disappointed, because it's, you know, it is what it is.   It happened.   
    He played really good.   He came from playing a final last week and really confident.   Played really good tennis, serving well, and actually all around the court his shots were really good.  
    It was, it was a very tough task for me today, especially if everything was going his way.   You know, I just couldn't find the rhythm, and I couldn't achieve any of the little opportunities that I had in the match.  
    So it's something to obviously learn from, but in a way was one of those days that, you know, you can't control anything.   It happens.  
   
 Q.   How tough is it mentally going out there, knowing that this is a guy who can pretty much shut you down if he plays great and you don't play out of your head?  
    GRIGOR DIMITROV:   You always going to get chances against him.   That's the one thing.   
    But as I said, today he was all over the court.   He was just hitting his shots, you know, penetrating every volley, low slice, serving really good.   He always serves good.  
    But it was just whatever ‑‑I was, whatever I was trying to do was just not going my way.   Even though I tried a lot of things, it is what it is.   I mean, at the end of the day I don't want to get myself too down for that.   It's just a loss.  
    As I said, I had a good clay court season, so I'm not ‑‑ you know, I'm not putting my head down.   It's just going to motivate me even more, and I'm going to come back even stronger.   Actually, that gives me extra time for me to rest a little bit and just get ready for the upcoming weeks on grass.  
    That's something really exciting to look forward to.  
   
 Q.   Against a guy like that, particularly getting broken puts you in a big hole.   What were you feeling when you were broken in each of those first two sets?   Did you have trouble getting back whatever energy you did have?  
    GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Actually, I must say they were funny breaks, because it was just ‑‑there was a few frames and just pretty few mediocre shots.   So to me it was just like a very ‑‑I would say a very bad game from my side.   
    But I had to face everything today.   Obviously everything was, as I can say, against me, so I had to fight that.   I didn't find a way.   Therefore, he won.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned you had a good clay court season.   Coming in as the No. 11 seed, did you feel you had a lot of pressure or put a lot of pressure on yourself or was it coming from outside?  
    GRIGOR DIMITROV:   No, not really.   I was excited.   You know, I'm most excited when I play good tennis and when I'm climbing up the ranking.   It's something just positive, positive vibes, and you feel good about it and you practice well.  
    But I must say I didn't have the best, you know, couple of past couple of days.  
    But, you know, it's just a tournament, and you have to go through.   A loss is a loss.   In a way, I need to accept that at the moment.   As I said, I can't dwell on that.  
   
 Q.   You said you didn't have the best couple of days the past couple of days?   Anything particular you want to share?  
    GRIGOR DIMITROV:   No, it was just things.   But, you know, it's something you have to, as I said, you have to go through and fight through the days.  
    Again, today was just one of those days that whatever I was trying, as I said, nothing was ‑‑just nothing was going in the court or a little bit my way.  
    So I've got to accept it.   Really, I've got to accept it.   I embrace the loss.   You know, as I said, it's going to give me even more confidence for the upcoming weeks.  
   
 Q.   You met him a couple of weeks ago in Rome, and then he had a pretty good run in Dusseldorf.   Did you feel he was playing more confidently or any differently today than when you were playing him before?  
    GRIGOR DIMITROV:   That's what I said, I thought that he was just penetrating every ball, and I was very surprised, because the match in Rome I believe was just really different.   His serves was not as accurate and volleys were not the same, so just of course it gives him a lot of confidence coming from that week.  
    Yeah.   
   
 Q.   You know, you're disappointed, I'm sure, but you don't sound too down on yourself, so I'm wondering if that's because of the opponent, because Karlovic is such a unique animal or you just don't want to get done and start to lose your confidence?  
    GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I just believe there is no need for that.   Of course I wanted to have a good tournament out here, especially here.   You know, the last tournament on clay.   
    I must say I was pretty pumped up and I was pretty, I would say, fresh in a way.   So of course I had a lot of matches the past weeks, but that's what I do and that's what I love doing.  
    Honestly, I did not expect an outcome like that one today, but it's tennis, you know.   It's just ‑‑two opponents get into that court, only one gets out a winner.   In today's match, obviously it was not me.   
    But I guess it's something that I have to go through at the moment, and, you know, it can be for the good.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to stay on in Paris for a little bit?   What are your plans for the grass season?  
    GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Oh, I don't know at the moment.   I think I'm just going to definitely rest a few days.   I haven't really thought about it.   It's just something that...   
   
 Q.   Are you going to stay back in Paris?  
    GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I'm not sure.   I'm really not sure.   Depends how we're gonna work it out with the coach and see what our plans are, and what our upcoming goals are for the grass.  
    Definitely I'm looking forward to play Queen's, so I'm going to be there probably a little bit earlier.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned that you had a difficult couple of days.   Was there anything that meant you were not fully 100% today?  
    GRIGOR DIMITROV:   It's just gonna sound like an excuse, so I'd rather not talk about it.   It's just, you know, things that I had to go through.   Very simple.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT