MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2013
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. DIMITROV/F. Mayer
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   On the face of it, very impressive win today.   Obviously it tees up a rather interesting match for you tomorrow.   What are your impressions?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I mean, I'm happy, first of all.   Definitely happy.   Coming on clay, first tournament coming to play on clay court is always tough.   But I'm happy I'm managing so far to play a good tennis. 
Really looking forward to that match tomorrow.   I mean, even for now I'm very excited.   Hopefully can perform at my best.   It's going to be a great match. 

Q.   You did so well, like in Indian Wells, so close with Novak.   In Miami you also played really well.   You're playing right there with the top players.   That must give you a lot of confidence, right?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Of course.   I mean, I'm feeling quite good coming on court with them.   I feel also physically I'm also ready to kind of hang with them more as the match goes on. 
You know, why not do this thing on a regular basis, of course? 
I know tomorrow is another point of view, since clay court you're playing against the greatest of all time.   Of course, there's you know that feeling and anxiety that you want to come out and do the best you can.   I think most of all you have to keep a good composure.   Today, have a good rest of the day, come out tomorrow and do the best you can. 

Q.   You feel more and more able to be physically matching the top players.   What do you think is the key to make the breakthrough in a tournament like this or a Grand Slam?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Obviously it's a big tournament here.   It's a Masters 1000.   I think your physical part has to match your mental part as well.   It's a game before the game. 
You have to be always ready.   Doesn't matter who you come out against.   But definitely when you play against these top guys, you have to come up with something extra, extra strategy, extra edge. 
But I think the only way you can have that is actually playing them, hopefully pull that out when you're on court. 

Q.   You seem to feel good on all surfaces.   Where do you rank clay?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I grew up on clay.   I mean, I'm always excited when I come on clay.   It's never been my favorite, but I'm playing well so far.   I would rate it top three (smiling). 

Q.   How long have you spent in Stockholm and what have you picked up from the Swedes?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I spent five weeks in December.   That was a tough five weeks for me, obviously.   But I'm happy I did it.   I put a lot of effort into my physical practices and of course on court, as well. 
Of course, the season is long, you don't have much time to come back and actually try to practice.   But every time we got a chance to come back, yeah, we do it and have some hours out there. 

Q.   I know Nadal on clay is sort of a different proposition to anybody on any other surface.   Do you think the fact that you've experienced playing Djokovic and Murray just recently gives you a better mindset going into a match like this where you know how you are, how you've reacted to playing the better players?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, I mean, I had tough matches against those two in States.   Obviously I think I learned a little something out there. 
But, as I said, Rafa on clay is a total different thing.   I mean, of course, all the odds are going to him at the moment.   I understand that.   But I think that's not going to discourage me to go out there and do my best obviously.   Why not perform, know, my best tennis. 
Of course, you never know. 
Again, of course, I've been looking for that match.   It's always good to see where you're at at the moment and what kind of game of tennis you're playing. 

Q.   What do you think you will have to do tomorrow to try to upset Nadal?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   First of all, I think the patience will be one of the key.   Obviously you got to cut down on unforced errors.   Stay in the match with him is never really the easiest part. 
Also if I have I think a good preparation before the match, I have a good state of mind before that, it's going to help a lot coming out on court.   Even if my game doesn't go in a good way, you're still able to be on court and do something else. 
I think there's a lot of components that is going to be picked up tomorrow. 

Q.   BNP Paribas is a great sponsor for the tournament.   People are waiting for you for autographs.   You're becoming very popular.   How do you deal with the fans?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   With a smile. 

Q.   You should get a sponsor for that. 
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   (Smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT