MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 16, 2013
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. DIMITROV/J. Tipsarevic
  7‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You were very close to losing the first set, then what did you think?   What did you do? 
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Obviously, I was just trying to hang into the match.   I mean, it's never easy playing against Janko.   I played him three times before, always losing in close matches. 
Today was one of these days I was really looking forward to come out on court and actually have a lot of fun, just trying to play good tennis in a way. 
Well, I fought till the last point in the first set.   I gave an extra edge as the match goes on.   I was very happy with the performance today. 

Q.   This season you were ahead of Djokovic in Indian Wells, then ahead of Murray in Miami.   What did you think after these losses? 
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   They were tough losses, of course.   Been having a lot of set points against them, actually serving for the set, up a break. 
I mean, of course they're tough for me.   It's tough.   I try to learn, of course, from these losses.   Today I think was an example that.   I don't know, I was down, I was just hanging into the match, trying to produce good shots, try to have a good composure on court and eventually win the match. 

Q.   Do you think it's beginning to get momentum for you because beating a top‑10 player, having good results so far this season?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I mean, the momentum is here in this tournament, of course.   But one tournament doesn't mean anything to me.   Most important is to have that consistency through the weeks.   Hopefully I'm going to have that.   I'm pretty excited playing on clay court. 
Of course, in the end of the day it's never easy.   All the players are playing really good right now.   There's never an easy round for you.   Basically you got to fight through all the matches and, of course, try to win as many as possible. 
If you have that consistency through all the tournaments, then you see the result in the end. 

Q.   You've changed your coaching this season.   Can you talk about the differences, whether you're trying to do now?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I spent five weeks in Sweden last December.   It was pretty cold and dark obviously out there.   Yeah, I've changed I think a couple of things, I would say.   My fitness point of view is one of the things.   I've been working out a lot with the free weights, been trying to spend as many hours as possible on court as well.   The work you have to do the most is actually on court. 
When you have the off‑season, it's very good to work up your body and kind of get ready for the year.   You don't have many weeks during the year you can actually work out. 
That was a good momentum for me coming into '13.   I was actually very happy with it.

Q.   Who is the guy in charge for coaching to?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Mikael Tillstrom.   I'm working with the academy Good to Great in Sweden.   Sometimes I'm traveling with Magnus Norman. 
We are finding a good balance for now, which is the most important thing.   And hopefully we have all the leverage to make the next step. 

Q.   How much clay did you play on when you were a junior?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I grew up on clay. 

Q.   Where was that?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   My hometown. 

Q.   So you feel pretty comfortable?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah.   I mean, I like it.   Plus I lived in Barcelona for two and a half years.   Obviously there, a lot of time on the clay.   Wasn't my strongest part obviously.   Through the years I started understanding what clay is, how to kind of respond when come you come on court, and hopefully I can do even better.

Q.   Do you feel it's any easier with the expectations around you right now?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I think the toughest expectations are definitely from me.   I don't have that pressure from the people around me or what everybody is saying, all this, all that. 
Whenever it comes it comes in a way.   I think the most important thing is to have a good composure throughout all the weeks.   You're going to play a lot of tournaments during the year, a lot of traveling.   If you have a good set of mind, you're committed to the work, you want to do that work, you definitely got to do it. 
Doesn't matter if you have four, five, six losses in a row, that doesn't have to discourage you to stop all of a sudden. 
That's the one thing I've been really looking forward to.   It doesn't matter what the tournament says, I'm just going to have to keep working on what I have to and keep chasing my goals.

Q.   What are the goals for the season?   Have you set something special?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, the most important thing is to stay healthy, injury‑free.   I think that's the most important thing.   Of course, the top 20 by the end of the year, it's very achievable.   As I said, the consistency is going to go a big key, work in all the matches, and never give up. 

Q.   Your tennis style is very similar of Federer.   What do you think about his game?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I mean, what can I think about that (smiling)? 
There are a lot of comparisons obviously through the past years.   Again, I don't know for which I'm going to say that.   You know, it's nice.   It's flattering to hear it, of course.   But I think we're quite different, so... 

Q.   The serve... 
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, some components are.   But I'm trying to build up my own style. 

Q.   Do you feel any pressure for your fans, many fans and followers across the world?   Do you feel the pressure from them?
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   No, not pressure.   Of course, you kind of want to please them, of course.   The most important thing is if you kind of please yourself in a way 'cause you're going out there playing alone.   You try to do the best you can. 
Eventually everyone else around you will be happy.   I hope the people also appreciate the effort, 'cause they only see what's from outside and you never know what's inside. 
Going through these tough matches and stuff, it's always nice, and hopefully it's appreciated. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT