U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2008
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  G. DIMITROV/D. Britton
6-4, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What was to like winning over here? Talk about the match. 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, that was, you know, my second final in Grand Slam juniors event. You know, I was feeling very calm when I was playing the match. Also Devin gave me a hard time in the first set, and especially in the beginning of the second. 
 But I found a way to manage my game, and that was the right way for me. I wasn't that surprised.

 Q. So the experience of Wimbledon helped you today? 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, definitely.

 Q. In what way? Did it just mean you weren't nervous or that tactically it helped you?
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: I wasn't nervous at all. I was prepared for that. You know, just keeping my game in the level that I wanted to play was good, because all the matches I was, you know, very focused. I think that's what most helped me.

 Q. What was the key to winning? 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: The key was I had to be very focused when he was serving, because he's a quite a good service/volley guy. You know, I was just trying to win the point and just play my game. 

 Q. Could you talk a little bit about the change in his game since you played him two years ago? Did anything surprise you about what he did today from the only time you played before? 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, there was a couple of things that, you know, I saw in his game that he developed well and stuff. 
 But, you know, since we were like three years back, then everything was totally different. He just -- he just played well. I just, you know, played over him. That's it. 

 Q. Was this as well as you've played this week, or have you been playing at a pretty high level all week? 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, the beginning was so-so because I was getting into the draw and stuff. I was feeling pretty good and stuff. I was not trying to, you know, impress someone or do something. 
 I just wanted to just play every match and play well. Yeah, maybe yesterday I played pretty good against Yang. It was a very good match.

 Q. How easy was it to adjust to these conditions again having had to move inside? 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, it's the same thing for the other guys. With me it was fine. If you go somewhere else you have to, you know, get used to it, so it wasn't that big different. 

 Q. When you've won a junior Grand Slam, how do you motivate yourself, or what motivates to you win the next one? 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Hmmm, that's a good question.

 Q. They're all good, you know. 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, I like US Open. Last year I didn't perform that well. This year I just wanted to come here and do my best. 

 Q. So you just focused on this tournament as opposed to the idea of winning another slam?
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, because it's also my last ITF event. Just gave everything.

 Q. Talk a little bit about your training in Spain and where you're training, with whom, and how that's helped your game in the last year. 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: I been practicing in Barcelona almost a year now. Been practicing with a coach from Spain. The thing is that he developed my game. 
 He said, You don't have to change nothing. Just couple of things that I have to play in the right way or to do different decisions. 
 But these things are coming from, you know, if you play more, like, professional events and stuff. So like this I can really find the help that I need to get there.

 Q. You're working with Pata Alvarez, and he worked with Andy Murray at a similar age. Has he talked to you about what Murray was like at your kind of level?
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, yeah. He said he was speaking -- he had a live interview about it and stuff, and even Murray himself came to him in Wimbledon and spoke to him. It was pretty nice.

 Q. That must give a bit of even more faith in him to know that he's worked with someone who turned out to be...
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, he did a lot of player, top 10. It's not only Murray and stuff. But I'm really impressed with him.

 Q. What's your goal in tennis now? 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Goal is to be top 10 player in ATP, right? Everyone wants to do it, so we'll see what's going to happen. 

 Q. Could you go back a little bit to the match itself. When he broke you to take the lead, you got it right back. Could you comment on how important that was? 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, in this game he was -- he really stepped into it with hard serve. You know, I didn't really push myself too much for this game. 
 Suddenly I saw that he could miss this thing, he could miss these returns and stuff. That's how I get him back. 

 Q. Who's your coach? 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: My father. 

 Q. You have a blog on the ITF website. You said, I didn't play good because I had a bad news today. 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah. Well, you know, everyone has his bad days and stuff, so it's nothing serious to worry about it. 

 Q. What part of your game do you still have to work on? 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: I guess my footwork. I have to get it better and stuff, which I really develop always and trying to get really good in this. 
 I think this is going to be the thing that I'm going work now for. 

 Q. What's your next tournament? 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Taking off to Madrid and playing a couple of men's events. After that, I didn't decide yet. 

 Q. Does Britton have some of the best volleys that you've faced in juniors?
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah. Actually, also Henri Kontinen from Finland, the guy I play in Wimbledon, he was, you know, pretty solid player from the net. 
 Today Devin also had a couple of good shots. I was really impressed. But, you know, I think at some point in the second set he got too overconfident and, you know, just he step away and I got it. 
 So I mean, he has to work on that.

 Q. How many years you playing in juniors? 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: I have no idea. I think four already, or five, something like this. 

 Q. Is this your biggest win as a junior? 
 GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, maybe. I mean, it was my last match, so I wanted to end up in the right way. It's maybe one of the important ones for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT