ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
October 31, 2018
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. DIMITROV/R. Bautista Agut
7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How would you rate your efficiency today?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: It was just a better day I think overall.  I had a few extra days to kind of, you know, get myself back on the good rhythm.  I think I played a very good first set.  It's one of the best sets I have played this year I would say.  So that was a good feeling.  And even in the second set when I was two breaks up, I just wanted to try a couple of things.  And, I mean, that's why I pretty much lost the set, but it's okay.  It is what it is.
I lost my service game twice, but I find a way after to just break right away and kind of finished strong.  A lot of long rallies and it gives me a lot of confidence as soon as I win them.
So it's great.  Obviously it's a very tough first round for me, but I was happy to finish in such a manner.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about Agassi being here with you this week, how that happened?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, we've known each other for quite some time and, you know, it's the right timing right now to kind of have him on the team.  Nothing is said at the moment but we're just still trying to figure how we're going to make the schedule.  And hopefully I can travel with him a bit more next year, and for sure we're going to try to spend a lot more time together in the upcoming weekends, months.
So, yeah, it starts from here.  Hopefully in the next couple of months we'll know more how we're going to do our schedule.
Q. In terms of personality why is Andre a good fit for you?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: He's amazing.  I couldn't think of a better guy, sharing thoughts, feelings, emotions, on and off the court.  I just believe that he's -- I mean, he has gone through so much overall and, I mean, what an unbelievable career with the ups and downs and all that.  So one of the only people that I feel I can really relate and open up is that.
So far none of us have been disappointed with our company.  And we're going to keep going that way and I'm sure he can bring a lot more to the table on and off the court.
Q. So next you have Marin.  Talk a little bit about that matchup and perhaps adjustments you might need to make?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I mean, overall I served pretty well today so I think this is the one component that I really need to focus on against him.  And of course the returns.  He's a big server.  He's been, again, playing well throughout the whole year.
So, I mean, it's only going to be the first time we play against each other.  But I definitely do kind of step up my game a little bit more in order for me to start feeling a little bit more, you know, more confidence to make sure that I win, you know, the long rallies and at the same time use every opportunity that I get against him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT