CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2018
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. DIMITROV/T. Sandgren
7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. This was your first time playing Sandgren in a tournament.  How did you prepare for the match, and what was your overall reaction to it?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I didn't have much time to prepare for that.  I knew I'm going to play Ryan.  I found out in the morning just before my practice that I'm going to play him.
I mean, it's never easy when you've never played against a guy.  So I think it took me quite a few games early on to kind of get in a rhythm, see what kind of game plan he had, just try to get comfortable into the match.
I think I did well overall.  I think the first set was obviously the tough set.  After that I kind of picked up my pace a little bit more, I started playing a little bit more aggressive.  I think also I was moving well, which was one of my main things.  Yeah, just hold it throughout the second set.
Q. Last year you lost to Rafa during the semifinal.  This year obviously Rafa is not here.  Do you think you have a better chance to win the final?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I don't know.  I mean, obviously I hope so.  But I just need to take one match at a time.  There's a lot of quality players in the draw, even if some of the big, big names are not here.  I mean, still there's quite a few other players that are playing well right now, are competing on the high level.  I just really need to look after match by match.
I think since I haven't played that many matches, I mean, this year, the past four or five weeks, it's just very important for me to take one match at a time.  Hopefully, if everything progresses in a good way, I can be out there in the final.
Q. In the first set there was a point where he won three games in a row without you scoring a point.  What did you do to switch that momentum back in your favor and win the set?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, I think he served pretty good that game.  There's not much I could have done.  Yeah, on my service game, I didn't put that many good first serves.  I was not I think sharp with that movement.  I kind of let that game go a little bit.
Again, it's one of those moments that when the player plays well, catches such a wave, it's hard to do something.  But I just knew I had to stay in the game, stay composed, look after my service game after.  I knew progressively I'm going to get another chance.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT