THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 2, 2018
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/G. Dimitrov
1-6, 7-6, 7-6, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It's not an easy period for you right now on the tour.  Today you had the occasion to take the advantage, you couldn't really close it out.  Is it a confidence issue or is it too easy to say that?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I don't know.  It is what it is.  I wish I knew more about it right now.  I mean, I did everything I could to put myself in that position.  I worked throughout the whole week so good.  It's just a shame, simple as that.
I don't know.  First set, great first set.  Even in the second, like, I felt good in the tiebreak.  Just a few easy unforced errors.  Yeah, at times my feet were not on the right place when I was hitting the ball.  I was losing those very important points.  I think that was the difference.
Of course, Stan played well.  He fought very hard.  He deserved way more to win today than me.
Q. He hasn't played a ton of matches this year.  He hasn't played that well when he has played.
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Neither have I.  I mean, if you think about it.  I haven't played that many matches either on the grass, or overall.  I think we're kind of on the same boat.
Again, he was just the better player today, just simple as that.  When it came to the clutch moments, he seized those moments, simple as that.  He served big when he had to, hit the big shots when he had to.  Yeah, that made a difference.  The score itself speaks for itself.
Q. Is it a case of going back to the drawing board?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Nothing to go back to the drawing board, to be honest.  It's just we need to obviously keep on working the same way, but also find why am I playing like this right now.  When I put myself in those positions, I'm not converting them, simple as that.
I was up a break again in the fourth.  I don't know.  Almost too many breakpoints.  Just slipping through my finger a little bit, just simple as that.
Obviously right now I'm pretty frustrated, so it's pretty hard for me to give a straight answer for that.  I'll take some time off obviously right now and see what is the next step.  I mean, for sure there's no reason to panic or anything.  I'm not that type of a person anyway.  I'll try to remain positive because I know that's one of the toughest things, especially when you exit early in the tournament.
So, yeah, I mean, you kind of have to stay positive, simple as that.  You can't just go down on yourself.  Yeah, it's been a rough road so far.
Q. Jack Sock, who has struggled this year, has pointed to the longer than ever season last year, making it to the semifinals in London.  You had a long season last year, too.  It's midway through the next year already, but the amount of matches you played last year feel like it's a hangover for you?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: It could, to be honest.  It could.  I don't know.  I always want more for myself.  Maybe this is what the body can take right now.  I think it's very tough when you reach a certain level and you want to go forward, but there's the last, like, two, three percent are the toughest ones.
Each year you're growing, growing.  You're 3.  What is the next step?  Wow, I can be No. 1.  For me, those are the steps that are going to make the biggest difference.
Of course, there's an accumulation of a lot of matches, beating up on the body, especially on the mental side.  I mean, considering how many matches I had to fight through and come back from a set down on many occasions.  Yeah, I mean, part of it could, to be honest.  But in order to be the best, that's what you need to be doing every single year.
I mean, I don't want to look for excuses for anything right now.  As I said, it's a bumpy road, simple as that.  For sure I'm not happy to lose first round in Wimbledon.  I don't remember when was the last time that happened to me.
Yeah, it's still a bit of a shock to me.  I need to accept it, I guess.  I don't know what will I do now, simple as that.  I think one of the best things in a way is, like, I'm trying to find the silver lining is that I can take some time off, really put the racquet aside now for plenty of time, if I have to be honest (smiling).
It's kind of nice in the same time.  Look at it that way.  This is basically our halfway through the year.  A little break I think couldn't hurt anyone.  The most important thing is, as I said, one of the toughest things, to remain positive.  That is absolutely the toughest task.  Knowing you're out, watching the matches on TV is not going to be easy.  If it was easy, that wouldn't be tennis.
Q. You had in the past ups and downs throughout your career.  Is it the first time that maybe you can't point at something that is the reason why?  Is it also the most worrying kind of situation?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I mean, I'm sure my team around me will probably tell me something that I don't see.  That's why I have them.  Even friends and everyone around tell me the truth in the face.
I believe they would have told me something by now.  I mean, the thing is I really feel it's actually the most I've been practicing, I would say, even in a really long time.  I don't know if maybe that also plays a bit of a game in my head, like, my expectations for myself are getting too high.  Maybe I can't deal with the pressure right now and I want too much from myself.
That's always been the thing.  I've never been influenced by anyone, what people are telling me, whoever is talking about me or anything.  I know the biggest I think pressure always comes from myself because I know what I've gone through, not even now, but throughout the years, the practice and hours that I've put in.
Yeah, I guess maybe that's something I need to look into it and see how it goes.  I mean, obviously grass is over.  Sad, absolutely.  I mean, even in my wildest dreams I haven't dreamed like losing first round.  It's done.
Q. When you said you were going to take a break, will that mean spending time with friends and family, going somewhere?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I really haven't thought about it.  I'm still in my clothes from the match.  You can see how well I feel right now.
No, I don't know.  For me always going home is the best thing.  Sleep in your owned bed, wake up, go for a walk, whatever you want.  For me there's not one formula that is going to work, I'm going to go do this now, do that.
No, I think I'll let the sink a little bit.  Obviously, I can't really think straight right now just because I'm shocked in myself, frustrated, pissed, anything you can possibly think.
Yeah, I need to kind of calm myself down a little bit and start thinking rational and make the next step.
Q. Is there consolation in that it's a first-round loss to a guy like Stan that won three Grand Slams, or does it still feel unacceptable to me?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I don't want to say it's unacceptable.  Stan is an incredible player.  I'm friends with him off the court.  For sure, I wish him all the best that week.  It's hard to come back after injuries, he's hungry, more determined, all that.  On that end, absolutely.
But still it's hard for me to just accept losing, period.  Especially at an event like this that I've done so well in the past.  I've beaten big names on that Centre Court, played tough matches against big players.  It's kind of in the same time tough pill to swallow.
Again, in order to get to the trophy, you need to win seven matches.  Whoever is out there, you need to go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT