AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 12, 2021
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  G. DIMITROV/P. Carreno Busta
 6-1, 1-0 (ret.)
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Not the way you expected it to go today.  Did you know anything was wrong with Pablo before the match?
 GRIGOR DIMITROV:   No, definitely not.  I think the beginning of the match was very crucial for me, especially the I would say first four games were very, very important.  I was just trying to stay as positive as I could, as focused as I could.  Tough conditions.  Obviously the sun was coming out a little bit.  It was heating up.  I really wanted to minimize all the distractions.
 Eventually I was able to really play a very consistent game.  I think that might have played a certain role.
 Q. We all woke up today to a lot of distractions that had nothing to do with play.
 GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah.
 Q. How aware were you of all the rumors?
 GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Very aware.
 Q. What was that like?
 GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Well, I mean, clearly it's unexpected.  I think throughout the past months and everything that has been happening, in a sense I feel like nothing can surprise me to that extent.
 Of course, safety first on all ends.  Still being very fortunate to be able to play a Grand Slam tournament in the middle of a pandemic.  Very, very thankful to the Australian Open, to all the parties that made that thing happen.
 I mean, I feel like also very welcome from all the Australians.  The government has played a significant role.  Yes, it's not going to be the same without the spectators, but very thankful for the opportunity I get.
 Q. Did you try to savor more than usual the crowd?
 GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I mean, as I said, it's great.  It's always wonderful when you have the crowd.  You always take everything in, take the most out of this situation.  Again, there's so many things I can't control, but there's many things that I can control.
 I really need to focus on the things that depend on me the way I prepare for the match, the way I play.  Yeah, hopefully after those days, things can sort of come back to the normality the same way we've had the past weeks.
 Q. A much more lighthearted question.  Sunday is Valentine's Day.  I was wondering your thoughts about the role of love in the sport of tennis?
 GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Well, I mean, every time you play the first point, it's 15-Love.  Love goes all the way through, I guess, if you think about it.  It's never 15-All from the beginning.
 I already bought a gift, so I'm very happy with that.  You didn't catch me off guard, so thank you for that.
 I like it.  I mean, without that, I think we all based on love, us humans.  You cannot live without it, just period.  I don't know, like I don't feel like it needs to be a Valentine's Day to be able to do something special for your loved ones, for that one special person that is next to you.
 I always like to surprise to the occasion.  But, of course, I very much like it.  I enjoy it.  It's so nice to play tennis on that day.  So hopefully I have a good day.
 Q. Why is it nice to play tennis on that day?
 GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I don't know.  It adds more.  We definitely going to miss the crowd, so it's just everything that comes into the occasion.  It feels nice.  Whatever we can get in terms of positivity and a good vibes, you absolutely take it.  You accept it and you go along with it.
 Q. When you have something like this happen in the middle of a tournament where you only get a set of tennis, maybe 30 or 40 minutes on the court, do you do anything with your routine to practice a bit more, or try to stick with the mindset of keeping the reps up?
 GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, I think it really depends on the prior matches that you had to play.  It's always good maybe to do a little extra.  But I think I have the experience to deal with those kind of circumstances very differently now more so than ever.
 I feel like I'm in a good place right now physically, mentally, in the way that I'm striking the ball.  Today, for example, I didn't feel the necessity to come out and try to play more or to explore more or anything like that.
 I feel like the things I had to do right I did right.  But, yeah, it clearly depends on the opponent, depends on the match.  Even if it's a set or set and a half, it doesn't really matter.  I think it's very important the personal feel.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT