BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 6, 2018
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. KYRGIOS/G. Dimitrov.
3-6, 6-1, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How do you feel about your week?  Three three-setters, quite a bit of tennis.  Where do you think you're at?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I'm glad at least I could play some matches and get to those, you know, clutch moments.  Obviously, it was great to go through those two-setters, saving a match point in the first round.
Yeah, as I said, I'm building off those kind of matches.  Obviously, today has been -- it was again a tough match.  I think I played well the first set.
And, yeah, after that, there was not much else I could have done, I thought.  I mean, he was just serving unbelievable, just hitting his spots.  Like, I even thought at some point was a little bit, like, carelessly hitting the ball, and they were getting in.
So, again, I could only focus on what I'm doing on my side and, yeah, that was that.  I thought, I mean, even when I got broken in the second set, I didn't think I played a bad game.
It was just, I mean, good shots from him.
Q. I think there was one backhand pass that he did that was super casual, and then it goes right past and it's on the line.
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I mean, there were a lot of balls that were pretty casual, but what can I do?  There's no point for me to get frustrated or pissed whatsoever.  You just have to accept it.
And we know how he is.  He can switch from playing unbelievable to just missing, you know, the easiest shots and all that.
But obviously I just -- there's not much I can say, to be honest.  It was just like there were a lot of balls that I thought he slashed away, and they just got in.  And it doesn't matter what I do.  The ball was just, like, coming back and back.  It was just like hitting, hitting through, hitting through.
And also I get that sometimes when there's no way out, you try to change up the game and break the rhythm of a player.  And today just everything, whatever I thought he tried, it was just great.
So, I mean, obviously he deserved to win today.
Q. How do you feel all three matches you played sets you up for Melbourne?  You got, I think, nine sets under your belt.
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I mean, obviously I'm a little bit tired, but it's good.  It's great to get, as I said, those matches early on.  Try to play a few three-setters to see how the body feels after two-and-a-half hours.
I mean, yeah, I think it would be interesting for me to prepare also for next week.  It's going to be completely outdoors, not really a roof, nowhere to hide.
So, I mean, I'm ready for that.  So I just kind of want to take a few days off.  Also try not to get too down on myself.
I'm obviously disappointed when I lose.  And I thought I had the match today again under my control and everything and just kind of slipped away.
But, again, at least I have -- I don't feel I have regrets that I've done something terribly wrong during my match in order to lose it.  And so I thought I gave myself the best chance, fought to the last point, and that's all I could ask for myself.
And, yeah, the rest, there's nothing else.  I mean, the body feels great.  As I said, a little bit tired, but I think after couple of days off and getting bit of treatment, things will get back on track.
Q. Are you playing any of those modified rules next week in Sydney and Melbourne?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I just play in Sydney on Monday, Monday night, the Fast4.
Q. Zverev, yeah?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I have no idea.  So, yeah, I'm just going to do that.
Q. Yeah.
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah?  Okay.  So that's what I'm doing.
And, yeah, straight off to Melbourne.
Q. About those sort of Fast4 and Tie Break Tens, what do you see as being the future for that within tennis as a product?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I think each has got their own, in a way, character.  I think Fast4 is kind of nice for the fans and all that to kind of just promote different type of tennis.
But it's still great for us.  I mean, it's nice to just get out there and not only play tennis but also, like, kind of -- it's nice for the crowd.  It's nice for people to see the other side of us that we can -- we're all, like, you know, in a way, the fair play.  Other players are there on the court, so it's kind of nice.
And, yeah, Tie Break Ten, I think it's interesting for everybody.  And I think it gives them a little bit of that kind of match routine to kind of prepare and stay on the court for a little bit of time to get in a good rhythm for the upcoming event.
Q. Do you think we'll see you here next year?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Hopefully.  Hopefully.  I mean, as I've said, I always like to start in Australia.
But, yeah, a lot of things have changed, I would say, in the past month.  So it's still a long time, but I know it's going to be end of the season very soon, and then we still have to start thinking where we're going to start the year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT