WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2017
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. DIMITROV/Y. Sugita
6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Probably maybe easier than you expected out there today, but what were you happiest with in your tennis?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: It was just one of those days that you just had to adjust to the conditions.  I just had to adjust a lot to the conditions.  It was pretty swirly out there.
Yeah, I knew what I had to do against him.  From the first point, I think I was on top of the game.  That carried me on throughout the whole match.
Q. Is there anything to be said of full circle of making the semis here last year and making it again this year as your first Masters 1000 semis?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: It's a good feeling, for sure.  It's a good feeling.  I like playing in Cincinnati.  I love that center court, as well.  I think all that brings me good memories and just a positive way of thinking when I come out there on the court.
I think that was about it, to be honest.  I didn't think I did anything spectacular except playing the game the right way today.  Just glad to get off court for about an hour.  Save some energy and prepare for tomorrow.
Q. You talked about positive thinking.  Your confidence level is pretty high right now.  How important is that going into the US Open to really be playing confidently?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Every match counts, and you build up.  So that's what I think right now.  Of course, there is still a week to the US Open, so I don't want to get too ahead of the schedule of days, but yeah, it's always important to have those extra matches.
But again, US Open is a completely new and different tournament.  You need to prepare, I think, even differently.  You play best-of-five.  The conditions are actually kind of similar to here.  Yeah, everything that I do positive right now, I need to put in the bag and keep it and take it with me.
Q. You looked pretty fit out there on the court.  Are you doing anything special in terms of fitness this year to build up of the possibility of five-set matches?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, you need to be ready either way.  I think I have done a lot of work in the offseason and even throughout the year.  Every time I have a bit of a chance and a little opportunity, little window to do fitness, I keep doing it.
I think it adds up.  And, yeah, I have been doing this for quite some time now.  I think experience is starting to talk a little bit.  And, yeah, I'm pretty confident with my physicality.  I'm not hiding that.
Q. You said that you have been doing this for a while now.  Any advice you would give somebody who's coming up through the game?  What would you say to a Dimitrov who is 10 years younger at this point?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, there are so many things that I can say, but in the same time, nobody told me what to do, right?  No, I'm not going to be that way.
You know, everybody's got a different path, and you need to find what actually works for you, what works for your body.
You need to sit down, speak to the team, have to see what you're chasing, what are your goals, what you want to do.
I think there are so many components that you need to put together in order to find that right way, right path, right amount of work, whether it's weights that you need to work on, whether it's your balance or more, you know, exercise on the court.  There are just so many things that's just different for everybody.
I think once you recognize that, I think it's very important to keep on doing it, even on the bad days.
Q. With all the withdrawals here, how much does that shape or not shape the way you approach this tournament as far as your game goes?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Again, I honestly don't think about it.  Of course you see that a lot of the top guys are out of the tournament, but, you know, this is your opportunity.  You know, you create your own destiny, and I think right now I'm just focused on my side of the court.  That's all I care, to be honest.
Who is withdrawing, who is playing, who is not, it's not something I can control.  In a way, I don't want to think about it.
Q. You have Isner or Donaldson tomorrow.  You know John's game somewhat well.  I don't know how much you know Jared's game.
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I think I've watched quite a bit of Jared.  He's been playing really good tennis.  He's been on a roll lately.  Both of them are pretty dangerous players.
Whoever is against me tomorrow, I'm sure they're going to look for the win.  But so am I.
Yeah, I'm going to try to watch a little bit and see how the match is between them today and then come up with some sort of a plan for tomorrow.
Q. What did your opponent say to you after the match?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Nothing.  I guess he was a little down and just said, Well done, Man.  I think that's about it.  Yep.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT