AEGON CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2017
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. DIMITROV/D. Medvedev
6-3, 3-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It was a tough match.  Maybe the fact that he got into the match already injured on his shoulder played some role in the way you approached the match?  Maybe changed your tactics according to that?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: No, not at all.  It is what it is.  You know, you're injured, you're injured.  It's just tough conditions today.  It's pretty windy.  It just wasn't easy to play the game that I wanted to play, but I think I had a right approach for the match.  Honestly, that's about it.
I'm just glad to go through the match.  Yeah, I'm feeling pretty positive.  Whatever it is next, I'm just going to, you know, face it and try to play better.
Q. So it was nothing like I'm going to play on his forehand, for example, because his shoulder might be...
GRIGOR DIMITROV: No, I don't believe in these things.  Yeah, for sure I wanted to do probably a little bit more of, you know, maybe come to the net a little bit more.  But it was pretty windy today.  It was not easy to play the game that I wanted to play, as I said.
So, yeah, I just played a little bit more slice and simplified my game, yeah, stripped it down to as much as I could.  I just had to just count on certain weapons and play right at the right moments.
Q. Berdych or Lopez next.  It's a pretty tight match out there.  A quick word on both those opponents.
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Either one is going to be pretty tough.  Feli is extremely good grass court player.  He knows his way around the court pretty well.  Very experienced, as well.
Tomas, on the other hand, is a pretty strong hitter, especially on faster surfaces.  He's a very tough opponent.  So whoever it is is going to be a very challenging match for me.
Yeah, I'm in the semifinal of Queen's.  As I said, I'm pretty positive, excited to get out there and perform again.  It's been a while since I have felt that good on the court, so I'm just going to try to use that momentum, and whoever I play I'm going to focus entirely on my side of the court.
Q. You talked about this a little bit earlier in the week, but I wonder, what is it about grass surface that suits your game so much, especially where grass is such a rare surface and one that practically doesn't exist in your native Bulgaria?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, you get used to it.  I think earlier hitting on the grass court really helped me.  I'm enjoying it, just because you never know how many matches you're going to play on grass and how many times you're going to get a chance to get on the practice courts.  So every practice, every moment spent out there, it's a moment that I appreciate.  Just trying to make the most out of it.
So, yeah, I wish for sure there were more grass court tournaments, but in the same time, it is what it is and you make the most out of it.
Q. I'm not sure if you're aware, but while you were playing, Dan Evans has just tested positive for cocaine.  He's been kind of provisionally banned starting next week.  Do you have any comments about...
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I just hear this from you.  I had no clue.  Any news like this, it's sad for tennis.
Q. You said when Sharapova was banned that you thought that was right.  Does that kind of mindset change when it's a nonperformance-enhancing drug?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I think none of that is comparable, so I think it's not even important to talk about things like that right now.
Q. But you believe he should serve his time?  He's accepted the charge, et cetera, so you believe...
GRIGOR DIMITROV: It is what it is, and there are circumstances to everything.  I haven't -- I don't know exactly what it is.  I haven't -- I heard it here for the first time.
As I said, it's sad to see it.  Yeah, whatever it is after that, I think it's to be determined.  So let's see how it evolves.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT