ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2017
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








P. CARRENO BUSTA/G. Dimitrov
7-5, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. You played unbelievably for the first four games then suddenly something got off?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah.  Just played -- had a good start.  Just couldn't get in my rhythm after, simple as that.  There's not much I can say about that.  Shame, because I thought I was, you know, just playing well.
And to have a start like this for the match was just perfect.  And I think I just couldn't sustain that level.  And I think this is, like, accumulation from the past months that I had a bit of a dip.  And I didn't play enough matches, I think, on clay.
And yeah, just how is it.  And I think he just deserved to win.  That's, I mean, that's what I can say regarding the first set and probably the rest of the match.
Q. You had a fantastic sort of first month, month and a half.  I guess you mentioned the clay hasn't been great.  I guess you had a couple of disappointing ones towards the end of the hard.  How do you identify the different phases that you have been through this year?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: At some point you're going to have a little bit of a dip.  I think the end of last year and the beginning of this one, so I would say the past eight months I think I gave a lot for myself, I think, on and off the court to keep up on the good practice, playing solid matches, winning tournaments.
And yeah, I think just now I just didn't follow a good path.  Especially, as I said, on the clay court, I didn't have enough matches.  My game wasn't as consistent.  So when it comes down to those clutch moments like today, I wasn't able to turn things around.  Just simple as that.
But yeah, I'm not discouraged.  I think I have a lot to look forward to.  The grass court is around the corner.  I'm excited about that after, you know, the hard court.
So yeah, I need to stay positive right now, simple as that, and keep things as simple as I can and just go back to the basics.  You know, try to create my routines again, follow a good path when I play matches and move forward.  Yeah.  That's just how is it.  There's no secrets when it comes to that.
Q. What do you think the challenge for Milos will be against Pablo?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: When they play against each other?
Q. Yeah.  What will Milos' challenge be playing Pablo?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: He played really well, I must say.  He played a good match today, like, against me.  And I think he was going a lot for his shots and he tried to even improvise a little bit at certain occasions.  I think this is something that might hurt Milos for sure.  But yeah, if Milos serves well and plays his game, it's always tough.  It doesn't what surface you're playing on.
But as I said, I think just Pablo has quite a bit of confidence right now.  He's been -- I think he's been playing well throughout the whole clay court season and even before that he had good results.  So for sure that helps him to do well.  And also for sure after today's match, he gained even more and more confidence.
And yeah, I mean, I think overall that's what is going to be important.  I mean, he fights pretty much every point, and he was able to do it over and over again today.  And I think it's going to be interesting match for either one of them.
Q. What will you do now?  I know that Queen's is a tournament you enjoy a lot.  Are you going to get there a bit earlier?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, I'm playing Stuttgart before that.  So, yeah, probably couple days off, just try to get the body ready for the grass.  Starting to prepare differently now, work on the fitness.
And, yeah, I just get back to the basics.  I mean, this is the only thing that I can do right now.  And yeah, I need to just -- the only thing I feel I really need to do now is just stay humble.  Be on the path that I'm in right now.  Because I feel I've been doing good on and off the court, working really hard on the fitness side.  Even on the days off here was just doing constant work.
So I'm pretty happy with this.  The team feels that everything is going towards that path again that we feel that the confidence is coming back and that I'm ready to compete even harder.  And I'm excited about what's ahead.
Q. Roger is playing Stuttgart.  How do the boys in the locker room feel about him coming back?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, I mean, I think nobody really, like, thinks about that anymore.  I mean, it's for sure great to see him back on the court.  I'm a big admirer of his game.  And he's my singing partner.  So yeah, I need to support that.
But yeah, you know, grass court always brings back good memories to me and brings a good smile on my face as soon as I step on it.  And yeah, I'm really looking forward to what is ahead.
I mean, for sure I'm going to dwell on that match a little bit.  I wish I could just erase from my memory, but I have to put it behind.  I'm sure I could have done a lot of things better.  But the clay court season is over for me, so onto the next one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT