ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2017
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. DIMITROV/T. Robredo   
6-3, 6-4, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Through two matches, how are you feeling about your form?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Good.  Good.  I think it was a better match today than the first one.  A lot of positive things.  Also a lot to look forward to for the next round.  I still believe that I can do a few things better.   
But, yeah, overall, I think it's a good, good second match.  Tough opponent.  We all know how Robredo can compete.  He's been quite a few times do that the second we got here.  So super experienced player.   
And just pleased, just pleased.  That's all I can say right now.  Pleased with my game and looking forward to what's ahead right now.   
 Q.  You said that you could do a few things better next round.  Like what?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, I can just improve a little bit on certain shots.  Take maybe a few better decisions on occasion.  I think the first serve was very good today and the second as well, but I still feel that I can do even better.  That's the one thing.   
And my movement can improve as well.  And that's the best thing is actually with each match you just starting to feel better and better.  You're starting to find your way around the court.  You're hitting the ball better.  Your confidence is coming.   
So just there's a lot of positive things that I can take from today, but still the job is far from over.   
 Q.  I'm not sure if I have seen you since January and you obviously had a pretty amazing start to the year in Brisbane and Melbourne.  How do you think things have been going since?  Do you feel like you lost the momentum somehow, or are you regaining it, or how do you feel about how things went after that?  Because you started at a very high level this year.  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, absolutely.  It's great.  That's what I wanted to do.  I wanted to get my ranking high.  I wanted to improve to win a few more matches, so to speak.  Good start in Melbourne.  Also winning at home was pretty big for me.  It was one of my highlights for sure.   
If I lost some momentum, I can't say something like that.  I wouldn't call it that way.  It's just a few tough rounds here and there.  Indian Wells, quite a few match points.  I can just sit there and name quite a few matches that I had so many opportunities and it just didn't go my way.   
But that's tennis if you think about it.  It's a pretty competitive sport, and especially where tennis is at right now where there's absolutely no easy rounds.  You have to be on top of it day in and day out.   
Yeah, for sure, if you just -- you know, I battled a virus also for quite some time.  So it was just like a lot to add on.  But at the same time I didn't feel discouraged.  I was just keep doing my stuff, keep going through the routines, keep working on my game.   
And yeah.  Just, I mean, the worst thing you can do is get down on yourself, because then you don't feel you do the right things and you start to be in this negative feeling.  And for me that's just not in my nature and I refuse to be that way.   
It took me quite a few years to get to the level that I am, and now it's just all about my next step.  And I think I'm on the right path now.   
 Q.  I'm not sure if you followed any of the controversy going on around Margaret Court that's been going on the last week or so.  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I haven't read anything.  I have to be completely honest.  When I'm playing, I'm staying away from social media and everything that surrounds me.   
 Q.  Then next match.  I'm not sure if it's finished yet, but I think Carreno possibly next, and he's had a big year.  He was in the top eight for London a month ago or so.  Just thoughts on that match.  He's obviously a guy that maybe likes clay more than you do.  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, he has improved a lot especially over the course of the past two years.  He loves clay a lot.  I think the last time I played him, I lost against him.  So for sure it's going to be a great match-up, I think, for both of us.   
Whether it's any surface, I don't care.  I think I've proven myself that I can play good on pretty much all the surfaces.  And I had good success on clay, as well, beating good players.  So nothing is going to -- I think nothing is going to stop me on wanting to do that and achieving my goals.  It's just the way it is.   
And whoever I have to face, I'm pretty excited to play.  I think this is the best thing when you come on the court and you feel happy and excited to compete.  This is also where the character comes in.   
And, I mean, come on.  We're at the French Open, third round.  Let's just get it going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT