ATP CUP
January 5, 2020
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. DIMITROV/R. Albot   
6-2, 6-3   
Team Bulgaria - 2   
Team Moldova - 0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Found a little bit of form out there?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, yeah. It was a different day today. Obviously we came to the courts, we had to play early, very different than the previous days.   
So I was just trying to -- I came actually earlier than I had to, so it was like a little bit different for me. This time I couldn't just think of myself and how to get ready for my match for whatever, 11:30, 12:00. So I just had to build up the team a little bit for today, and after that it was just all about the game.   
I think Dimitar did a great job this morning. Obviously it was a good match on his end. And then I had to make sure I stayed strong throughout the whole match today. That was good.   
 Q.  How difficult is it fulfilling those multiple roles?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: It's very different, and I'm finally starting to understand what is it to be on the other end, as well.   
I think, you know, my dad was the one who told me how to play tennis, and when I was chosen to be a captain, he was, like, Oh, now you're going to see what is it to be on the other end.   
And I really did and I am. But I'm enjoying it. I never thought I could do like the whole double role, but I took this on board. I wanted to give something back to the boys and just make sure that they learn. That's it. That's all I want, to kind of give whatever I can from me to them. So I think things are good so far.   
 Q.  Has it been cool to see your coach to become kind of an honorary Bulgarian a bit? Not just helping you but helping your teammates and really being into it with the country?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: It's super nice to see. We embrace him a lot. I think we are very warm in general as Bulgarians. I think he really enjoys that part, as well.   
I have worked with so many different coaches throughout all the years, and, you know, now it's not so much about that. It's more of, like, how much you're going to get along with a person. You're going to spend pretty much 24 hours with them, and, you know, week in and week out. So you better make sure he's a good companion.   
We spend a lot of time also off the court, going for long walks, going to the restaurant. So everybody has been pretty much together. So he's been a part of the whole team. I think that's special for him, as well.   
 Q.  I think it was during your second set, you know, in the match that we started to see the smoke come through and you really started to smell it. Did that sort of affect your game at all?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: No. I mean, obviously I see a little bit more now. It's definitely not pleasant. But I even noticed it this morning when we went to the court to warm up. The court was a little bit more dustier than it was the previous days.   
Yeah, so clearly it is what it is. You know, we can control only what we can.   
 Q.  Is it something you noticed though during the game?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I thought it was just a little bit foggier than the previous days. But, I mean, you're so focused into the game, you probably put all these things aside.   
 Q.  You guys have almost become the surprise package of this ATP Cup.  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Really (smiling)?   
 Q.  I mean, how many would have suggested you were going to have two round-robin victories? What are your thoughts on that? Has it surprised you?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I don't know. I don't know if "surprise" is the right word. I think coming into this thing, I knew that if we come together, we have a great opportunity.   
I mean, I know I have to not only believe in myself now but I need to believe in the players that are with me. My only goal was, and I'm honest on that, was just to put them together, to make sure we practice together, to make sure they learn something from me, to make sure they are surrounded by the top players. That was my main goal.   
I just really, really wanted them to experience that, to learn how to be more disciplined, more professional, and it was -- for me, it was all about them in that particular situation.   
But of course when it's time to play the matches, I mean, it is what it is. I had to clearly get out after the first set, so I told the boys before, Just so you know, I have to get out after the first set so I get ready.   
I had to be a little bit selfish on my end, because I knew that match was going to be very important. But today, as I said, Dimitar did a great job. I was even a little bit more relaxed coming into that match. It gave me a little bit extra confidence. Even now for the doubles, we still want to win.   
We're here for that, so hopefully we can, you know, keep on doing the same thing and why not go further?   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT