WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 18, 2016
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. DIMITROV/S. Wawrinka
6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you talk about what you felt you did well today in this victory over Stan?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I was fighting more the first set.  I think I was very persistent in my service game, and then I think -- I mean, I knew that Stan will just come out and play good tennis.  I think early on he really did.
I think after that break I felt like I got into -- I mean, I got into his head and into his rhythm pretty well.  Started moving the ball good.  Hitting my spots.
That just helped me today.
Q. Were you going to play doubles together?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, we were supposed to for sure.  I mean, this is how it is.
Q. How did you decide not to play?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: It's mutual.  I mean, our main focus is the singles.  We sat down and spoke a little bit and that's how it is.
Q. This is your fourth win for you against Stan.  What is it about that matchup that works well for you?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I like playing against Stan.  We know how our games.  Practice with him the beginning of the week, so we practice a lot.
Yeah, we kind of know where we're going to serve, how we're going to play.  I think it comes down to the nerves also at some point mentally.
That was that.  I mean, we know our games pretty well.  I like playing against him.  That's just it.
Q. Speaking of the nerves, there were maybe some tight moments at the end of your match yesterday.  How much confidence does that give you, getting that win and then being able to do what you did out there today?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, a lot.  I need matches like that.  I think I need like ten or twelve more of those matches to sustain that level and also to send a statement not only for me but towards everyone:  I'm here to play and I'm here to compete.
I was pretty warm also.  I mean, I just slept for like seven hours last night.  I came here this morning and I was like, My God.  It's time to play again.  But I did well.  I managed well.  I had a good rest of came on the court and I was just positive.
Q. Feel like you've turned the corner at all this summer?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: No, no, not yet.  I'm not focusing on that right now.  As I said, the thing I'm focusing the most right now is my game, my tennis.
I don't want to talk about any corners or anything, but things seem to be in the right way right now.  I'm playing good tennis.  Been working well; on a good path.
All these things are for sure adding up, and I just want to make sure I keep doing it now every week.  Every tournament that I enter is to win every match and fight and just get out there every day and give your best.
Q. Draw is opening up a bit now.  Steve Johnson next.  You played him at Wimbledon.  Thoughts on facing him?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, pretty dangerous player.  Stevie has got a lot of confidence now.  I saw him also playing at the Olympics very good tennis.  He's pumped to play as well, but so am I.
So it's going to be interesting.  I think it's going to be interesting.  I think it's a good matchup for both us.  We look forward to it.  Yeah.
Q. How tough is it to play someone who runs around their backhand as much as Stevie does?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I don't remember.  I mean, the majority of players are trying to run around and hit that forehand.  Stevie does it pretty often, even on the second serve.  So I think in a way I'm pretty aware of his game and what he's going to do.
It all depends how I'm going to play as well and how my game is going to be and when it comes to the clutch moments, really make it happen.
Q. You mentioned your seven hours of sleep.  Do you have an ideal number that on a perfect day getting ready for a match you shoot for?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I don't know.  I don't sleep as much anymore.  It's kind of funny.  I love sleeping.  I think eight hours is kind of like all right.
Q. That's the goal?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Like a morning daisy, so... (smiling.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT