WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2016
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. DIMITROV/B. Fratangelo
  6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. Well played. You looked really confident. Didn't look like somebody about whom people are saying his career might be going slightly down instead of up. Looked like you were in the zone. Do you pay attention to it when people say this is a player who should be playing better?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I mean, I'm always ‑‑I mean, I always criticize myself. This is the person that, you know, I answer to, anyway. Coming back to Wimbledon, it always brings back good memories to me.  
I had a good week, I would say, weeks of practice considering my previous results. So I'm just confident to get out there and play. I mean, I have always wanted to play my game in a certain way. Now, I mean, today in particular it felt really good. I felt like I was serving well, felt I was moving well on the grass.  
Yeah, you know, I was just getting back to the basics. I mean, whatever everyone is talking about it, that's their thing. You know, I have said it before, I never listen and frankly I don't care.  
   
 Q. How does it feel now today compared to how you felt, say, in 2014 when you had a fantastic Wimbledon?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I think 2014 was like ‑‑ throughout the whole year I think I had a fantastic year. But now I'm just ‑‑ you know, I'm just feeling in a way just as good. I'm very happy when I start striking the ball the way I was striking it today, and I think my confidence also is getting back after playing matches like today. I mean, I know I have struggled a little bit in the past weeks, but that didn't, in the same time, didn't discourage me. That also got me thinking a lot.   
I think about myself I wanted to find also a lot of answers, and I was just ‑‑I think I was just in my own, in a way, in my own world.  
But, yeah, I was just focusing again on the tennis. That was the most important thing for me, and I just kept practicing, practicing, and practicing. It seems to be good for now.  
   
 Q. Can you give an example of what went wrong in the first‑round defeats you have suffered recently that you really focused on and thought, right, I can't do that again?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I can't say one thing in particular. I think I had quite a few first rounds in a row, but it's ‑‑ you know, it's also the work that you put in, you know, the team and what we have, you know, worked on. There is just so many components I think in the game that I just felt were not up to speed with everything.  
And I think of course my confidence was down a little bit also, and I was not going for my shots. I was not playing my game in the way I wanted to structure the point and, you know, the first serves, returns. So there are just a lot of uncertainties around that I just couldn't, you know, couldn't get a handle.  
But the one thing is I have always put in the work, so no matter the result, even if it's bad, you know, or anything else, at least I know that I'm honest in front of myself and know that I have done the work.  
   
 Q. When we spoke in Paris after your match you were telling me that you didn't know what the problem was and you were looking for answers. You said you were open to anything. What was the process like for you after that?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I'm still looking for answers, you know. I just think I have played long enough to, you know, to know, as I said, how I like to play and how I want to structure myself, I think, in and out of the court.  
So I just felt that ‑‑I just was not settled enough, I would say. I was just not feeling comfortable the way I was practicing, the things I was doing. So that's why I said I just need some time, I need to find these answers, and what can I do better?   
Because I have always wanted to be better. I always wanted to improve. You know, the moment you feel you stop improving, then you know something is not right.  
   
 Q. You were on a six‑match losing streak. Does that weigh on your mind at all? Are you aware that you are...   
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Of course I'm aware. I should be aware, of course. But as I said, this should not discourage you. It's not the end of the world. It's just, you know, a tennis match. But in the same time, you're like, Okay, what did I do wrong?   
Obviously when something is not going the way that it should, I mean, then of course all of a sudden everyone starts talking. Oh, the guy is like losing first rounds and this and that. I mean, everyone has periods in their career and I think in their life that things are a little bit uncertain and they are struggling a little bit.  
But to go ahead and start making assumptions and judging, you know, that's just‑‑ there is just no need for that.  
   
 Q. What would represent a good tournament for you over these next two weeks?   
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Hey, I have gone pretty far out here. I have gone pretty ‑‑the thing is I'm not fearing anyone. I'm not fearing...   
(Novak Djokovic pops head in the door.)   
NOVAK DJOKOVIC: Are you sure you're not?   
GRIGOR DIMITROV: No. Especially you. Especially you. (Laughter.) Especially you.  
No, on a serious note, I mean, honestly I don't fear anyone. I have beaten I think top players and in big tournaments. Like I'm not afraid to get out there and get my hands dirty. I'm very happy to play right now. I think that's the thing is like I'm happy to play. And I think when you're happy, things are just happening.   
I know I have very tough rounds in general. I'm unseeded. It sucks, you know, I must say. It's been a while since I haven't been seeded.  
I take the positives out of that. Of course I don't forget everything else and I don't forget what I have done and I don't forget where I come from, of course. Now I just need to go back to the basics and just work my way through again.   
   
 Q. You don't fear him, then?   
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah. (Laughter.)  
 Q.How much do you like playing on grass? Do you feel grass...   
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Oh, yeah. I think it's ‑‑again, I mean, when I finished my last tournament on clay I was like, Oh, God. Thank God.   
In the same time I ‑‑I love grass. I mean, I remember the first time I came here I didn't ‑‑I barely hit a ball on grass, and the following year I won Wimbledon as a junior. So I think ever since then, I was like, Yeah, I can play good on grass.  
So I think, you know, I have ‑‑I think mentally I'm always prepared coming on grass. So I think that's just something to have in your pocket and at least you know, like, Let's open the files. Let's see how it goes.  
   
 Q. Does the whole sort of Wimbledon thing, I don't know if we just like writing about this, but if you have gone through a period quite difficult to play and you come here and feel comfortable and you like the surface, does that sort of build momentum for you? Do you sort of feel more comfortable?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I guess. You know, I guess. This is where tennis starts. I mean, I think every player feels very special out here. It's just how it is.  
I mean, I don't know if it's the air or if it's the grass or the strawberries or that we all stay in houses. Like, seriously, I don't know.  
But whoever you ask, just a special feeling. Even guys that never liked playing on grass are like coming here, Oh, it's so nice.   
Dude, you don't like playing on grass. Yeah, so that gives you that vibe. So, yeah.   
   
 Q. How difficult is it really to go from practice? You say you've been practicing hard. But then to play in a match after waiting?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I have practicing a lot. I think that's the problem. I think when you have that much time on your hands ‑‑I mean, as a player, you always feel that, okay, you know, it's a tough loss. Let's just practice this week. And then another week. And then another week happens. Of course it weighs off your shoulders a little bit. That's why sometimes you're coming out of a match and you're a little bit anxious to just hit more balls or try to put the ball in the court and just to rally a little bit more.   
I think this is also a little bit dangerous because you kind of get out of your rhythm and your game plan. So, yeah.   
For me, it's just simple. I mean, it's tough to say simple, but it's simple in a way, coming out on the grass. At least I know what my game is and I'm following what's working.   
   
 Q. You say it sucks not being seeded. How does it feel being on court 16?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, I was just about to say something about that and I didn't. It was different. I think, to be honest, that was the first ‑‑I played my first round there as a junior before I won the tournament. So I took it as a good sign, to be honest, like a good omen.   
Yeah, it was different. It was definitely different. I'm not gonna lie that. It wasn't bad or anything. I mean, it's still grass. It's still Wimbledon. Just was a little bit more windy than usual. People are walking a little bit behind, a little bit more noisy.  
But it's not that I have never done that before. It's only positives.  
   
 Q. Your next‑round opponent?   
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Who am I playing?   
   
 Q. Simon? I think he finished while we were here.   
GRIGOR DIMITROV: As I said, like, I have to play big opponents next round, so, yeah, the only way for me to get back to where I was is if I go through him. That's just how it is, guys. Nothing else would help me, even if I'm a wildcard or whatever. That doesn't give you an extra privilege or anything. Just back to, you know, back to basics and explore that ‑‑ you know, of course my opponents I have played pretty much everyone out there. I know what it is. I mean, I'm playing ‑‑I'm playing Simon next round? Obviously he's a tricky guy on any surfaces. I need to definitely bring my A game, but in the same time I'm pretty confident that my game is going to be good enough to beat him. So I'm coming out there with of course expectations for myself to win.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT