APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 15, 2016
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. DIMITROV/G. Muller
6-2, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Very unusual day of tennis.
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Again.
Q. Ever experience that?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, I was talking to my team today.  I was like, When was the last time that I had to go off the court that many times in a row?  I mean, yesterday was four times; today was twice, I believe.
But it's in the game.  It's what we have.  Just have to cooperate the best way possible with the weather and of course with your nerves.  I also thought the mental toughness was pretty good today.  I was tested.
So yeah.
Q. (Question regarding warming up and cooling down over and over; which is worse. )
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I think it's all together.  The fact that you have to like stop and warmup again and then go back and just stop for -- the second time I remember before the tiebreak I had to serve at 6-5.  We were out for like eight minutes out of the court and I had to come out on the line and serve right away.
That's no fun.  What can you do?  It's how it is.  In the end comes down to a few points here and there.  If you're on it, you're on it.
Q. It was an unusual day as we said, but an incredibly successful day for you winning your quarterfinal and semifinal matches in one day.  You must be feeling pretty good right now.
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, I am, I am.  Been good day in the office for me, so to speak.  Yeah, I was pretty tired yesterday, I have to be honest.  Four times on and off the court and I played against Alex in tough conditions.  That took a lot out of me.
When I came back today I felt good as new.  I stretched, went through my routines, a little bit of a hit, and I think after I was very happy to complete the match with Alex.  Then coming out the second match was just like I felt like was just a new day for me.  I didn't think so much of the previous match or how I'm going to finish or what I'm going to do.
I was just trying to focus on what was important to me.
Q. Troicki in the final.  Must be confident after last week?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, I mean, last week I was down a set and a break against him.  He plays good tennis.  All-round player.  He knows his way around here pretty well.  I've seen couple of his matches, so obviously he's capable of playing incredible tennis.
I think the match is pretty even up.  You know, it was just one of those days it's a great way for both of us to come out there and perform.
Of course I like the odds on my side.  Been playing better each match and feeling confident with each win, so that really helps a lot coming into a final or anything like that.
I'm trying also not to put like any pressure on myself right now.  I'm playing well.  That's all that matters.  Everything else comes with it.
Q. Do you feel like you're close or where you were two years ago?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I think it's hard to say.  I think it's really hard to say.  I can't really judge it that way.
Even if my ranking gets sky high I'm probably not going to realize that.  Because as I said, other things are more important to me in my tennis and in my game.  I'm focusing on completely different stuff rather than the rankings or how many points I need to win and which tournaments I want to win.
Of course I set myself high goals, and, you know, raising the bar to the extent I feel I can do it.  But tennis is not a sprint, it's a marathon.  Just trying to set myself up in the best position I can and give 100% from myself.
If you do all that, results, ranking and everything else comes with it.
Q. Against Dolgopolov you came from a set down, and the first half of the second set seems like everything simplified in your game.  Do you think that's what you meant when you were saying you were trying to find your true colors the other day?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I mean, it's different against every player.  You play against a different player every day, different style.  I think one of the best qualities I have is that I can change my game right away.  If something doesn't work from the beginning I know I can adjust and sort of turn things around.
I've done that quite a few times in the past, and so now I'm really not afraid of any opponent in that matter.  Like I feel I can turn any match.  The problem is like not to put yourself in that situation and to get that moment early on so you don't have to deal with it later in the last couple of games.
You never know how the other person will feel on the other side.
Q. Against Muller you lost two times, but this time you looked in control the whole match.  What has changed?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Well, I didn't want to lose, so...
I mean, I knew what to expect from him, but I felt I was really sharper early on.  My returns were on the dot right away, which I knew he felt.
Then I think I broke him first game of the first set, so that was already a big statement enough for him.  I knew he was very uncomfortable.  You know, it was another break that we had to get out of the court, and again.
So I think that helped him out to find his spots after on the serve.  He eventually played better tennis.  I think thought the whole match I was just solid, solid enough, and I was putting the balls when I had to and winning the big points.
That was the difference in the end.
Q. Thinking about Australian Open next week, you think your game is getting closer to where you want it to go?  You know what I mean?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, I do.  I do know what you mean, actually.  Depends what you're asking me for that.  You know what I mean?  Like it depends what you're asking me.  My game is getting closer to what?  If I have to compare it to two years ago or one year, that is pretty irrelevant for me.  After every year I'm playing tennis and I feel I'm getting better, so.
I'm never going to compare to myself to what I was two years ago.  Yes, maybe certain shots, maybe certain -- you know, on the mental side, the physical side, yes.
But when it comes to the tennis side, I like to be mentally prepared and know that I'm better each year.
Q. (Question regarding last win in 2014 Stockholm.)
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I want to be in the finals, of course.  Who doesn't want to be in the final?  But I think last year I felt I had a lot of chances in a way.  Even though the year didn't really turn the way I wanted it to, I still had a couple of quarterfinal matches.  I lost I believe four or five matches from a match point in the quarters, so it was just small things that were just going against me.
I just couldn't do much else except accept it, come back, work, and next time you get another chance or something you go for it.  Again, I'm not going to lie.  Of course I'm happy to be back on the final.  I'm aiming definitely higher and looking at the big picture right now.  As I said, whether it's Brisbane or Sydney or any other tournament, it's just as important as any other Grand Slam event or any of the 1000s.
I'm just taking this very seriously, but in the same time trying to enjoy the moment.  I think I know when you do that, you feel happier.
Q. We've seen some withdrawals here, and most of the top men's seeds are down in Melbourne preparing already.  Do you have any concerns about the workload you've had in the last couple days?
GRIGOR DIMITROV: No, none.  Absolutely none.  I've done that before.  I've played quite a bit before a slam.
I mean, that's what I want to do right now, play matches.  So there is no excuses for me if I go there and lose or anything like that.  I just don't really think about it.  I have a final to play tomorrow.
Going to give 100% from myself.  Yeah, going out to Melbourne, probably playing on Monday.  That doesn't scare me.  I'm in a way I'm kind of happy because I'm in a good rhythm.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT