APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 13, 2016
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. DIMITROV/P. Cuevas   
7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Three matches in Brisbane and at least three in Sydney.  Obviously acclimatizing to the heat pretty well.  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, today was not that warm I think, but it still was a little windy; tricky conditions.  I think I played against a good player, and so I'm happy to finish the match in straight sets.  I think that was the most important thing for me.   
Yeah, looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  You played in Brisbane the last four years I think.  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Three.   
 Q.  Reason why didn't you come to Sydney?  The way the schedule is...  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I think in the previous years I was in a different situation.  I think right now I need to play more matches, as many matches as I can get early on in the year.  It's going to help me I think with my ranking, but also with the level that I'm trying to achieve.   
I've worked a lot on a lot of things this off-season, so I just want to make sure I put them into play and just make them as a habit.  I think that's the thing that is very important to me.   
And then, yeah, hopefully everything goes well and I can reduce on some tournaments so I can focus on the big picture.   
 Q.  At one stage you were leading a set and a break, and I think you might have had break points for 4-1.  You missed a couple shots and seemed very frustration.  What was the frustration for you when you were playing so well and leading?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Because I want more.  I want more from myself.  If I can finish the match faster, why not?  If I have the advantage, why not get a bigger one and save energy and also build up a little bit more confidence, anything like that.   
It was just because I was playing good tennis.  I thought I was playing good.  I as solid throughout the whole match and I created so many opportunities, that I wanted to see some of them -- you know, like I just wanted to grab a little bit more.   
But, yeah, I still felt mentally that was good.  Didn't really bother me.  It was more of advantage on my side, I guess.   
 Q.  You play Dolgopolov, right?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah.   
 Q.  You must know him pretty well.  A lot of variety.  Talk about that.  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, we've played I think quite a few matches against each other on pretty much all the surfaces.   
Dangerous player.  Never know what to expect.  Especially here.  The conditions are pretty suitable for him.  It's faster court and a little bit windy.  So it's going to be definitely a tricky match for me.   
On the other hand, I'm here to play.  So for me, whoever is on the other side, I'm not going to try to focus on him.  I'm just going to focus on my job, on my shots, and what I need to do out there.   
 Q.  So in the last ten days you played pretty well.  Were you pretty pleased against Federer?  I know you lost, but it was close though.  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I mean, I'm happy that I played that way.  Of course I'm not happy that I lost because I thought I had him there for a little bit.  I played I think an excellent second set.   
Just small margins, that's how is it on this level.  Small margins.  I missed one forehand deep and missed the slice, and that cost me the break in the third set.  That shows you what it is.   
Overall good performance so far from me, but I'm aiming higher each match.  Hopefully everything goes well for me.   
 Q.  You are working with Franco Davin.  How would you rate your off-season, and are you comfortable with him?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Yeah, I think we've established a team around me, so that important.  Yeah, I think he's very different than all the coaches that I've worked with.  Definitely different approach.   
Still adjusting to certain things, but overall we had a great off-season.  I think we've worked on the things that are primary important for us.   
Yeah, I mean, that's the only thing you can do right now, is just go on and play tournaments and matches, spend more time together, and, yeah, things will come together.   
 Q.  What do you mean by he's different to other coaches?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Just different approach.  The way I been practicing and different things that, for example, he sees in me that maybe I haven't seen, nor anyone else.   
So I'm pretty happy with that.  Yeah, I think that's about it.   
 Q.  What are some things are you working on?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I worked a lot I think on a lot of my serve return.  I think some of the first shots in my game were really sort of not working well enough, I would say.   
Now they're coming together.  Also a bit of tactics, plan, how I want to structure my game.  Basically show your true colors a little bit, your identity as a player.   
I'm still on a way of finding that.  It sometimes is kind of tough when you have so many tools in your bag and you don't know which one to pick.   
Trying to simplify the game as much as possible, and yeah...   
 Q.  When you work with Franco now who has worked with Del Potro and he's a Grand Slam champion, was very good player, are you interested to hear about his experiences working with Del Potro?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: No, not really.  I'm not that type of person anyway.  As I said, I'm focused on what I'm looking for and what we're looking for as a team.  Of course his expertise and his experience is going to bring a lot; I'm sure about that.   
But I don't really question him or anything like that.   
 Q.  You spoken to Juan Martin in the last couple months, and do you expect him to come back at all?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: If I have spoken to him?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: No.   
 Q.  But you've spoken with your coach and all that.  Do you think Juan Martin will come back this year at all?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I don't know.  I'm always a believer in a way.  I'm sure if everything goes well he's going to come back eventually.  Whether it's going to be this year or later on this year it's hard to say.   
 Q.  Did you get to watch any of Djokovic and Nadal last week?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I didn't.   
 Q.  Surprising, though?  He beat him pretty easily.  Is he playing that well, Djokovic?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I didn't get a chance to see the match, but as we all know, Djokovic is just playing unbelievable tennis right now.  Everything seems to click for him right now.   
But you just never know when you're going to get the chance and the opportunity in general.  Doesn't matter what tournament you're on or which round you're playing.   
In a way, as I like to say, anything is possible if you have the will and the faith.   
 Q.  So maybe the young players, like yourself and Milos, are getting better?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: I think we all do.  Milos, Kei, me, we're just working towards one idea and one goal I think right now.   
I think at some point I think we're going to be great enough to have that.   
 Q.  This year then?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV: Hopefully.  (Smiling.)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT