WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2015
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. GASQUET/G. Dimitrov
  6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   It seems you always have troubles against Richard.   What is the most difficult for you against him?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Pretty simple today.   I just didn't play good.   That's just how it is.   I had too many opportunities early on in the first set to get back the break.   Then I think second set was also pretty close.   I had chances.   
You know, once you miss those opportunities, especially on grass...   
I mean, he was playing good tennis today as well.   Once you miss those opportunities, it's really tough to come back.   
I'm not going to hide my disappointment.   But in the same time, I'm not putting my head down because still it's been a bit of a progress for me.   Match by match, I've been playing a little bit better.   That's good news for me.   
But I need to rest a little bit now, you know, go again.   
   
 Q.   Would you say it's more lack of confidence for you at the moment?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, probably.   I felt like there was a few shots I should have played differently.   That's for sure.   I haven't played that many matches this year.   I've been missing out on quite a few of them, you know, just coming down a bit short in the same time with previous matches that I've played.   
Yeah, for me it's actually a little bit interesting to see that on a replay.   Recently I've been watching a lot of my matches, sort of reassessing what has been happening, what I missed out on.   
You know, it's coming good.   As I said, I still have my positivity to look forward and to see what else I can do better.   
   
 Q.   When you got to the semifinal here last year, a lot of people thought you would be the next young player to break into the big four.   Why do you think that hasn't happened for you?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   It's not happening for anyone right now, is it?   
As I said, last year was a pretty intense year for me.   Everything was quite intense for me to get into those rounds, quarterfinals, semifinals.   Every tournament that I was playing was just something new for me.   
To come back the following year, to repeat all that, it's never easy because after you put quite a bit of pressure on yourself to do good and even better, I don't know.   It's been a lot of ups and downs so far.   
If there's a good time for you to sort of see, and sort of see what you need to work on, whatever is ahead of you, you sit down with the team and see what we can do better, I think now is also the good time for it.   
As I said, I don't feel like I'm too far from it.   Of course, the ranking speaks for itself.   Of course, if you start winning a few matches here and there, everything would be just different.   
   
 Q.   What is it like when you're watching the videos of yourself and seeing yourself doing things you would rather not be doing?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, I mean, I'm a strong believer it's good to watch that occasionally.   I'm not one of those guys that's too obsessed with it.   I like to sit down and have a look of the details.   
I know how to hit the ball.   It's not that.   Sometimes it comes down to 30‑40, you have a ball not too deep, is it a time for you to attack it.   Those are the things I'm really looking into my videos.   A bit of the movement, a bit of the return.   
Those are the specifics, they sort of stick out for me.   I mean, I'm always really excited to sort of see it.   I'm like, I should have done that better.   Next time when I'm out there on the practice court, I'm trying to sort of, you know, make it.   I want to have that as a good habit next time when it comes down to the same thing, to be able to execute better.   
   
 Q.   Richard did play well, but it wasn't like you to miss so many backhands at the net, especially in the middle of the second set.   Was that his game, the bounce?   Was that you?   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, I had quite a few unforced errors today.   I agree with that completely.   
I don't know, of course he was playing good.   I'm not going to deny that.   But still, I felt that despite the fact I was moving well, that was the one thing I felt I was doing good, but just my shots weren't accurate enough.   
As I said, I was not executing the ball really the way I wanted it.   There were quite a few shots that I should have played very differently.   I can't name them.   When you're in the game, everything happens so fast.   You try not to think about it.   That's what I say.   I just didn't play good tennis today.  
   
 Q.   You and Milos are roughly the same generation.   He lost to Kyrgios today, who plays an emotional game.   What do you think of his game?   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Who?   
   
 Q.   Kyrgios.   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I mean, I haven't seen much of the match.   Obviously, if he beat Milos, he played a good tennis.   I mean, I know he can be up and down.   We all know how he is.   
But obviously I think when he sort of focus and puts his mind on it, I think he's even more dangerous.   
I think that's what happened today.   Unfortunately, I didn't have a chance to see the match.   I'm not the one to judge that.   
   
 Q.   Is he a different kind of creature, a bit like Dustin Brown?   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I mean, you can only see I think those kind of characters in a long run.   It's always a longshot early on.   I'd like to say at the moment I don't think either of them have something to lose in a way, if you think about it.   You're young.   You're coming out there excited to play on those big courts.   
I think one of the most important things is to start backing that thing up.   I think it's where the strength as a top player really comes up and shows up.   
What are you made of?   I think it's going to be interesting in the upcoming years, as well.   
   
 Q.   When did you start to sort of have the feeling you weren't a young player anymore?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Well, I'm 24.   I don't consider myself that young anymore.   Obviously with age, you sort of think you're getting older.   
But, no, I don't know.   As I said, I think last year was an eye‑opener for me.   It showed me what I was capable of.   I fell into a rhythm that I always wanted to.   But I knew it was very hard to sustain.   
That's why I think the top guys are what they are, because they're always backing themselves up.   I think that's why it's one of the hardest things for me, one of the hardest things that I've learned.   I've learned that.   I felt I matured a lot.   
That's why I feel like sometimes, especially this year, I've had quite a few difficulties to cooperate with the situation that I'm not playing as good as last year.   
Also I think, you know, it comes down to a bit of mental strength, something that you really need to sort of look at it and maybe see what you can do different.   
For me, it's always been an exciting time, especially when I'm playing a tournament.   I'm trying not to think about any of those things.  
   
 Q.   Looking at the top guys, do you know how they do it and it's just a question of doing it?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I mean, I think everyone is their own character.   It's just the way it is.   There's different things that work for each one of them.   
I'm not in their kitchen to see what they're doing.   That's for sure.   I just think you need to find it.   Once you find it, I think it's easier for you to know what's worked for you and what's not.   
I think the stability, the one thing I can really look from outside, is the stability that they have around the team, the family, everything.   I think once you're synchronized with all that, it takes a lot of not only pressure, but a lot of your mind.   You're instantly starting to think a lot of positive thoughts.   
I would say you're a bit more happier with everything.   It flows a little bit better.   This is the only thing I can say.   Everything else, it's their own pattern.   
   
 Q.   Did you see Roger's hot dog lob yesterday?   Presumably you have to feel confident in your own play to try something like that yourself today?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, actually I did saw it.   That was great.   That was really nice.   
Yeah, but you don't get the chance to do shots like that during a match.   Actually today I got the chance to do it and I felt pretty good.   I didn't win the match, unfortunately.  
   
 Q.   You were feeling confident in that first set to go for something like that.   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   When it comes to shots like that, I'm always confident.   That's not the point.   As I said, when it happens, you just got to go for it.   For me, I was 40‑Love up or something.   In a way I knew that I could have gone for something like that.   
I wish I was more confident for some other shots during the match, but...   
   
 Q.   In the past you were very proactive, like when things weren't working, you changed coaches.   Do you still follow the instinct that clearly something is not working?   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I obviously like to hear what is everyone have to say from my team.   I think that's very important for me to feel close with everyone around me.   That's a fair question really.   That's why I feel like it's very important to sort of sit down and see like what we actually did to make things work or what is not working.   
I don't like to say that things aren't, like, working, things need to be changed or anything like that.   The thing is, I don't really think of it that way.   I believe in the people that are on my side.   
You know, just right now things are not going the way I want to.   The thing is also you don't need to get too down on yourself and start digging to try to find something that is actually not there.   
There's also a lot of things that I feel that I need to take care of in general.   I think once everything settles down, obviously now I have a bit of time to rest.   It's going to be an exciting time for me to start in the U.S.  
I need to stay positive, you know, just get excited again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT