WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2015
Grigor Dimitrov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. DIMITROV/S. Johnson
  7‑6, 6‑2, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   That's two very solid wins now.   How do you feel you're playing?   And obviously given you did so well here last year, how close do you feel you are to that form?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Well, it's getting there.   Obviously it's good to go through certain matches in that way, especially in straight sets.  
I mean, with every match I feel that my game is getting better, but I still feel that there are a couple of things I need to sort of tune up, especially for the next round.   
I'm playing Richard.   It's not going to be an easy match, that's for sure.   He's been always been playing good on grass and all the surfaces.   So I just need to be ready.   You know, that's what's required for me.  
   
 Q.   He's one of those players where, when he's hot, he's almost unplayable.   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Exactly, exactly.   But, you know, that's part of the game, you know.   
Actually, I feel like I'm playing good, and in the same time I don't feel that even if he's playing at his best I know I can make things different, I know I can play better than him.   But of course, you never know on what day you're going to catch him and what day I will have, as well.  
I think it's just going to be a good matchup for me.   As I said, not an easy one, but, you know, I like my chances.   I think with every match I'm raising my game, and hopefully next match I'm playing even better.  
   
 Q.   Does it feel sort of good to actually be back here where you did so well last year?   It's not been as convincing a season for you this year, has it, compared to last year?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah.   I mean, I had a few ups and downs here and there, but, you know, that's in the game.   I felt that I have learned a lot from last year, because everything was pretty much rolling and to my favor everywhere.   I played in every tournament that I had.   I always had good results, and, you know, that was great.  
But, you know, sometimes it comes down to a few points here and there and that's why you lose matches.   I felt that this year I had quite a few good results, but in the same time I had quite a few bad ones.   If you put it that way, then yeah.   
But Wimbledon is a very special tournament, and for me it's one of the best events.   To be able to come back and sort of perform the same way, I think it's great.   You know, I have been here for quite a few days now, so it feels that I'm getting used to the grass pretty good.  
   
 Q.   About a year and a half ago Boris Becker told me you would be the next greatest player provided you did not get distracted.   Have you got too distracted by other things and that you haven't fulfilled Mr. Becker's great promise?   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I'm always distracted (smiling).   Kidding.   Depends on what kind of distractions we are talking about here.   
   
 Q.   You can amplify if you like.   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   No, obviously I know Boris is ‑‑I mean, I'm actually‑‑ you know, he's a great guy and I always had a good relationship with him.   Even when we see each other in the locker room, he always smiles at me and we always have a little bit of a chat.   
I get the meaning behind that, and I appreciate all the words that he had, you know, to say about me.   But until that day comes, I would love when that day comes so I can prove everyone wrong but in the same time prove to myself I can be the best I can be.  
   
 Q.   You have never beaten Richard before in all your matches.   What makes his game tough for you?   And how much does that play in your mind going into the next one?   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I'm not thinking about it, to be honest.   Because I think I played him a while back, like two years ago or something like that?   Yeah.   So I'm a different guy since then.   I'm a different player.   
I feel that, you know, I'm coming into the match as a favorite to win.   So I don't have, in the same time, I don't have anything to lose.   I need to get out there and play my game.  
I mean, that's all it requires for me.   Again, I know he's a tough player.   He's been playing well.   I just need to come up with, you know, with my own strategy and execute the way that I can.   
   
 Q.   Where would you rank his backhand compared to other players?   It's one of the better ones.   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   It's definitely one of the best ones.   I mean, I would say ‑‑I'm debating between 1 and 2.   I mean, Stan obviously with his strong one‑hander, and then of course Richard, it's one of his biggest weapons if you think about it.   
Every time he has a sitter or a shot on that end, you always know that it's going to be a heater or a winner, a tough shot to get back.  
Knowing that, you can actually anticipate a little bit and sort of, you know, create your own rhythm against him.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about this black new racquet?   Is it a prototype?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   No, it's work in progress.   It's going to be I think all the colors, and everything will be out pretty soon so everyone would see what it is.  
   
 Q.   Is it the same model of Roger?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   No.   
   
 Q.   No?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   No.  
   
 Q.   Tell me if I'm wrong, but have you tried in Rotterdam a new model already?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   It was a different racquet there (smiling).   It's a good eye, though.   
   
 Q.   Are you looking for something with the racquet?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah, there are things, certain things that are important for me in the racquet and I think the process has been good.   We are coming down to our final weeks of tuneup, and after that, it's going to be out there and everybody will be able to see and have that racquet.   
   
 Q.   I appreciate you are asked a lot about Maria.   Is there any kind of practical advantage to having her in your team at a tournament like this?   Do you analyze games together or anything of that nature?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Of course.   It's always good.   It's always good when you have a Grand Slam champion on your side.   Obviously, you know, it helps out.   You never know.   One tip can change everything for you, you know, one sentence.  
It's always good to have that on your side.   Of course it's a plus, appreciating advice and anything that comes out from her.  
   
 Q.   Are there any examples you can give?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I'd rather keep that private (smiling).   
   
 Q.   What was the heat like on the court?   What are your thoughts in general on what the heat can do to the players out there?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I don't think it was hot today.   I mean, I think it was just a normal day.   
But I think it can get rough.   I mean, obviously when the sun is out there, the grass is becoming a little bit drier.   The balls are flying faster.   I mean, you're losing tension on the racquet.   All those‑‑ those are components that are in the game.   
So you sort of have to anticipate more or less‑‑ I mean, I always like to, for example, the night before, I like to check on the forecast and see what's going to be the weather for the next day or if I have to go up on the tension a little bit or if I need to change something.  
But, you know, it's pretty basic stuff.   I mean, it's just different, because one day can be really warm and the next day can be chilly.   So of course that plays a little bit of a role how you're gonna feel and how your body is going to be.   You know, you need to drink a lot of water on days like that, and the next day can be just cold.   You've just got to really adjust to the situation.  
   
 Q.   Were your expectations different?   You said it didn't feel that hot.   Did you expect it to be worse?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Yeah.   I mean, everyone was talking about it's hot, it's hot.   To me it was just such good weather today.   I was smiling when I came out on the court.   
I think early on there were a few clouds out there, so I figured, no, it's not that warm.  
   
 Q.   (Question about Roger Rasheed.)   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I should say that should be No. 1, but it's just speculation.   Everyone can talk whatever the hell they want.   You know, I don't like to listen or read or anything like that, because, you know, that's in the game.   
Everyone can lose; everyone can win.   The worst part is when you start being judged that way by winning or losing, and I think last year, yeah, sure, I had an unbelievable year and all that, but, you know, it's pretty hard to just back up every time you've got to go out there and play.   
Everyone is working.   You're not the only one that is working hard.   You've just got to take things the way they are and accept them and strive.   
For me, I don't feel I'm down or anything like that.   I just feel that I have put serious work in me and there is a lot of miles behind me at the moment.   
Okay, the season hasn't been the way I really imagined it, but, God, I'm not losing first round every week, you know what I mean?   
Of course there is a lot of things you can work on and change and all that, but first I think you should look at yourself before you actually start trying to find excuse in the other people, whether it's going to be coach, physio, family or whoever else is on your side.  
Look yourself in the mirror first before, you know, you say anything else for the other person.   
   
 Q.   Have you and Maria played in consecutive games on the same court before, and did you get a chance to watch her?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   To watch her?   You mean like go on court and watch her?   
   
 Q.   You wouldn't do that?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   No.   She wouldn't do that, either.   I don't think so.  
   
 Q.   Why not?   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Because you have to prepare for your match.  
   
 Q.   I mean, you would have had the chance to go after your match just now to go and watch her play.   
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   Okay.   
   
 Q.   Didn't fancy it?  
GRIGOR DIMITROV:   I would love to, but I've got to take care of my body and talk to you guys.   There is a lot of things I need to do before that.   And she finished quite fast.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT