THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 6, 2017
Laura Gonzalez Escallon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'll welcome into the media center the current leader in the clubhouse right now, Laura Gonzalez Escallon.  So you had a pretty good finish, I think birdied four of your last five holes.  How did that feel to come in rolling some putts in and post a really good number?   
LAURA GONZALEZ ESCALLON: That was really good.  I started really hot, as well.  I think I made three birdies in my first five holes, and then I kind of stumbled a little bit, so my goal was to finish strong, so I did that.  It was great.   
THE MODERATOR: You got a pretty big roar, too, on 18 from a birdie putt.  How was the crowd out there?   
LAURA GONZALEZ ESCALLON: It was fun.  My ball kind of stopped halfway and then it dropped, and I think that's why the roar was so big.  But there's a ton of people.  I think they're really loving it.   
THE MODERATOR: What do you think about the course so far?  Does it fit your game?   
LAURA GONZALEZ ESCALLON: Yeah.  It's really good.  The greens are playing soft so you can be very aggressive.  I think that helps with low scoring.  And yeah, it's a really good course.  Every hole is different.   
 Q.  Do you feel like just being a new event and no one having played this course before, does that open it up to basically anyone can win?  
LAURA GONZALEZ ESCALLON: Oh, definitely.  There's always an advantage when you know the courses and you've played them a couple times.  It's new for everyone, so I think rookies can really take advantage of that.   
 Q.  Do you have to really worry with the moisture of the ball backing up on your wedges too far on short approaches, or coming into the par-5s a bit?  
LAURA GONZALEZ ESCALLON: Yeah, you really have to think about where the pin is and where you want to leave yourself.  Sometimes it's better to have a full shot than just a half shot because it gets a lot of spin compared to the previous events, but it's more about like placement.  Yeah, you can be super aggressive on this course because they're so soft, so as soon as you land it, you know it's going to spin a couple feet.   
 Q.  You started fast and you finished fast; what was happening?  Did something click that just got you to that fast finish?  
LAURA GONZALEZ ESCALLON: I kind of struggled a little with my driver, so I gave up some chances, and then we gave up on it, so just put the driver in the bag and just kept hitting 3-woods, so that just allowed me to be a little more precise with my irons.   
 Q.  You had your best finish a couple weeks ago in Manulife in Canada, T5.  How would you assess your rookie season so far, and what are some things you've learned being out here?  
LAURA GONZALEZ ESCALLON: Definitely I started with a top 10, so that was a dream come true, and I mean, I'm just learning and enjoying it here.  I have a great caddie, Patrick Smith, so that helps just to have fun and enjoy it and try to meet people and get to know the courses.   
 Q.  Your preparation for next week at the U.S. Open, what do you think you'll expect in that major championship?  
LAURA GONZALEZ ESCALLON: I've never played the U.S. Open, so I'm very excited, and my coach is coming from Belgium, so I haven't seen him in like six months, so I'm excited about that, and preparation is the same.  It's the same.  It's just an event, playing golf, same ball, same clubs.   
 Q.  Is that the first time that you'll see him since the season began?  
LAURA GONZALEZ ESCALLON: Yeah, so I saw him before I left for the U.S., which was maybe the 1st of January.   
 Q.  In your experience, is preparing for a major championship different or just the feeling once you get there is different than a normal event?  
LAURA GONZALEZ ESCALLON: I think you prepare the same way.  It's just one more golf course to play.  But it's definitely a different feeling.  There's so much more people around, there's more crowds.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT