NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v CARDINALS
October 3, 2000
Tom Glavine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 TOM GLAVINE: None? Good. 
 
Q. Any change in your emotions because of the pitching in the Division Series or have
you done so many of them that it is not a difference?
 
 TOM GLAVINE: I think that there is still an emotional level that is attached to it. You
know, you are in the postseason now, you are trying to win a World Series, there is
pressure that goes along with being in the postseason because you do not have the room to
recover from the mistakes like in the regular season. I think that having played in a
postseason as much as we have, it is definitely a plus, you know, because you know what to
expect, you know what you will have to deal with, you know what your preparation needs to
be, all those things should help you to be successful. But, I don't know how much of an
advantage it gives you. It could be argued that maybe it is an advantage not to have
pitched in this because you do not know what you are getting into, you do not know any
better. But, you know, I think from my standpoint, it is definitely gotten easier to
prepare and pitch in the postseason because we have been here so many times, you know what
to expect. 
 
Q. Because of all the talent on the team, do you think Bobby Cox is underappreciated as
a manager?
 
 TOM GLAVINE: I think Bobby is extremely underappreciated. I think the people have the
notion that this team has been basically the same team for a number of years now, Bobby
just shows up with the same lineup card every day, says, okay, guys, go get them. That has
not been the case. We have had a lot more turnover on this club over the years, Bobby has
been able to continue to keep this team together, keep it going in the same direction,
even with all the new faces we have had over the years. I think that Bobby does a
tremendous job at keeping this team focused and keeping this team going in the right
direction. There has been a lot of teams over the years that have had as much talent as
us, that for one reason has not gotten things done. You hear about the problems that go on
in the clubhouse, things like that; we never had that. Bobby has done a great job of
managing a room full of good, good players, and not letting egos become a problem or
anything like that. I don't think he gets credit for that kind of stuff. I do not
understand why if Bobby is not going to get any credit when we win, why he takes so much
criticism when we lose. The same group of guys going out there, same lineup card he fills
out. When we win, it is not because of him, but when we lose, it is because of him. I have
never quite understood that. 
 
Q. Along the same line, do you think people are not going to appreciate what the Braves
accomplished because they did it so many times?
 
 TOM GLAVINE: Probably not. It is like anything else in life. What is the saying? You do
not realize what you may have until it is gone. This is very true with this ball club. It
is almost a foregone conclusion we will be in the Playoffs. As players, we wish it was
that easy. We wish we could come to Spring Training and know we were going to the
postseason. People do not realize sometimes how difficult it is that you are one or two
injuries away from being right there with the rest of the pack, not being as good as
everybody else; that has happened to us the last two years, when we lost Andres and Javy
last year, it made a huge difference in our ballgame. When we lost Smoltz in spring
straining it made a big difference. We have been able to overcome those and still be
successful. As players, we do not take for granted that we will be here every year. I
think sometimes people outside of our clubhouse take that for granted. It is unfortunate,
but at the same time, it is understandable, because we have done what we have done, we
created the expectations we created, and I guess people expecting us to be in the
postseason and World Series every year is a lot better than it was when I first got here,
which was lose a hundred games a year. 
 
Q. Can the Braves be regarded as a dynasty without winning another World Series?
 
 TOM GLAVINE: You know, I think that, if we do not win another World Series, you
certainly have to look at the ball club and give us credit for the success that we have
had, regardless of that. Certainly, if we were able to win another World Series, it would
add to it, and I think it would take away a lot of the, you know, negative talk that
surrounds this team because of only one World Championship, but still you have to look at
this ball club and see what we have done. We did something nobody else in this sport ever
did, winning 9 Division Titles in a row, to me, that speaks for itself. Obviously, you
know, in the end a lot is judged on how many World Championships you have, that is where
we have a little bit of a shortfall. Again, if I retire and we only got one World
Championship, I would be extremely proud to be a part of what this organization has been
able to do, but there is no question, I would feel a lot better if I had another ring to
go along with it. 
 
Q. You have been a part of the bad as well as the good, do you feel that you have been
a part of the nucleus that has helped create that?
 
 TOM GLAVINE: Absolutely, I feel like it. I think you can see it coming in 1990, I think
I was here, Smoltz was here, Avery was here, Justice and Blauser, Lemke, Gant and all
those guys were coming along. You could see we had some talent. We were some veteran
players away from being a good ball club. If you told any of us in 1990, that we would win
the Division the rest of the '90s, you know, we would have told you that you were crazy,
for two reasons: No. 1, it is something again that had never been done in the history of
the game, so why would we anticipated our club doing it. No. 2, I don't think we ever felt
like we had that kind of talent. We felt we were good and on the verge of being good, like
I said, I don't think you can anticipated a ball club doing something that has never been
done before, it just kind of happens, it has been fun to be a part of that. Hopefully it
will continue. 
 
Q. Talk about the Cardinal lineup and key left-handers?
 
 TOM GLAVINE: They have a good lineup. From my standpoint I am not real sure which one I
will see. I pitched against them twice this year. The time I pitched against them here, I
think Edmonds and Clark were the only two lefties in the lineup. When I pitched in
Atlanta, there were a couple more in there. I am not real sure what lineup will be out
there. In any event, whether it is a left-handed lineup or right-handed lineup, they have
a good club. They are pretty well balanced. They have obviously some power in the middle
of the lineup, they got some speed, it is a lineup as a pitcher that you have to bear
down, you cannot afford to make too many mistakes. Obviously there is a little bit of a
difference without Mac in the lineup, Will Clark has done more than a good job of making
up for that. He has been on fire since he has been here, he hit real well against us in
the two series we faced them, so if you are losing something by not having Mac in there,
it is not a whole lot, Will has done a tremendous job. It will be a tough series for both
pitching staffs. You will have to keep your mistakes to a minimum because both lineups, if
you make too many mistakes will make you pay for it. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT