NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 15, 1999
Tom Glavine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you compare this game to the game you pitched against Cleveland?

TOM GLAVINE: Yeah, it's up there. Obviously, the game against Cleveland is a better
game for different reasons. That game brought us a championship. This is just bringing us
one game closer to trying to get into a situation where we can fight for a World Series.
But it was a good ballgame for me, obviously. It's one that I'm very pleased with and very
proud of. And I'm just happy that I was able to go out there and make the one run in the
first inning stand up.

Q. Tommy, it seemed like Mora had a lot of good at-bats tonight. Were you surprised at
his approach at the plate. Having not faced him a lot in the past, if at all, how did you
plan on pitching him?

TOM GLAVINE: I don't know if I could say I was surprised because I really don't know
much about him. And oftentimes, that's the hardest opponent to face is the guy you don't
know much about. You don't know if the approach you're taking is the right approach or you
seem to have him set up to pitch a certain way and you might be pitching to his strength.
But he had some good at-bats, had a good approach, and even had a good at-bat against
Rocker in the 9th inning. And he's looked good; and again, he looked good tonight, but
fortunately there were just singles and didn't hurt us too much.

Q. Tom, it's a compliment to your staff where you can go from the best pitcher in the
League one year to just kind of another guy in rotation the next year. How do you deal
with that, is that just something that can happen from year to year pitching in this
rotation?

TOM GLAVINE: That's part of pitching on our ballclub. We've got some pretty darned good
pitchers, and you're not going to be "the guy" every year all the time. And I
think that's one thing that all of us have been really good about is we understand that
we're surrounded by good pitchers. And there's going to be times when some guys are having
good years; some guys are having off years; some guys have a hot hand at a particular time
and other guys don't. But I don't think any of us are really all that concerned about how
much attention we get or how much we're doing better than the next guy. We genuinely want
to see each other do well because we know if that's the case, it's going to put us where
we want to be, and that's to have an opportunity to be a successful club and hopefully
fight for a World Championship. I had an off year; it was a struggle at times. But you
keep plugging away and trying to figure something out, hoping that when the stretch drive
comes, you've got it figured out and you can be a factor in what goes on. And I feel like
personally I was able to do that. But even while all that was going on, I sure a heck can
of a lot of fun watching Millwood pitch the way he pitched all year long. It wasn't much
of a problem.

Q. You had a lot of strikeouts tonight, what pitch was working best in that regard?

TOM GLAVINE: I don't know if it was one particular pitch as much as it was just
location on the pitches. I think I had a couple of strikeouts on change-ups; I had a
couple on inside fastballs; I had a couple on fastballs away. So it was a little bit of
everything. The key for me tonight, as it always is, is I worked ahead in the count, and I
was able to locate my pitches. And when I'm doing that, I've got a chance to pitch a good
ballgame. When I'm pitching behind a lot and struggling with my location, those are
generally the kind of games I'm going to have a tough time with.

Q. Did you reverse your approach on them?

TOM GLAVINE: No, I think that I let -- I guess I did, but I didn't have the intention
of doing that. I went out there with my same game plan as always: Pitch off my fastball,
move it in and out and change speeds. And when you get out there in a game and you see
something particularly working very well, you kind of make adjustments off of that. And I
had a good fastball tonight. I had very good location with it, so I kind of ran with it.
And there were some instances where you could kind of see some guys taking a fastball or
swinging late on a fastball where they otherwise probably were looking for a change-up.
And I think in those instances when I saw that during the course of that at-bat, I stayed
more with the fastball. But again, that's the kind of thing that I guess you let the flow
of the game kind of dictate to you what changes, if any, you're going to try to make.

Q. Do you have any reaction to the way they tailored their line-up specifically to you,
moved guys around? 

TOM GLAVINE: No, not really. I expected some changes. I know that me being a
left-hander, I know Ventura and Olerud are going to be in there. I figured that Hamilton
probably wouldn't be in there and that Cedeno probably wouldn't be in there. But aside
from that, that was pretty much the line-up that I expected to see. I was a little
surprised, I guess, with the switch in moving Olerud up to the second slot and moving
Robin down. I don't know if that was for me as much as it was to try to break up the
lefties so that later in the game we couldn't just bring a lefty out of the bullpen and
run with it.

Q. Tom, you and the Mets have a pretty good rivalry now, even though you guys have been
on top just about the whole time. I know you always want to series as quick as possible,
but I imagine it would be extra sweet to sweep these guys and close the book on this
season and the rivalry with them and let them know you are the team to beat?

TOM GLAVINE: Well, just beating them is going to be good. We obviously have an
opportunity to go out there tomorrow and win and sweep the series. But I think that our
approach tomorrow is going to be the same as it has been every game. We're going to
anticipate a very tightly-played game and the kind of game we can't afford to make
mistakes, and just go out and see what happens. We've developed a good rivalry here with
these guys for whatever reason. It seems to have taken on a life of its own this year. I
think a lot of it is because last year they were a good ballclub and they were kind of in
a position where they tested us a little bit. And I think everybody knew coming into
Spring Training this year that they were going to be probably the club we had to contend
with, and that in itself tends to develop a rivalry. But it's been fun playing these guys.
I know a lot of things have been said, and I'll be honest with you, I think from a
player's standpoint, there's no disrespect for each other. I think both clubs respect each
other an awful lot. Honestly, I look forward to the challenge of going out and playing
these guys, because they're a good ballclub. I think they play the game the right way.
They go out and play hard, and there's not a lot of showmanship going on. They just go out
there and play the game. That and the fact that seemingly every game we've played against
these guys, barring one or two blowouts, has come down to the last inning. When you have
consistent games against a club like that time in and time out, it tends to add to the
rivalry.

Q. Alfonzo has been the Mets hottest hitter. Can you talk about how you shut him down
tonight?

TOM GLAVINE: I don't know what I did any differently against him. I hate to say this
because I know I'll jinx myself. But I've had success against him for some reason. One of
the things I always do before a game is you kind of go over the stats and see who is doing
what against you. He's one of the guys, from a statistical standpoint, I've had decent
success against. I don't know what it is. Just like for some reason I've had success
against him. For some reason I've had a hard time getting Piazza out. There are guys like
that. Either you have their number or they have your number. And in an instance where
you've had success against somebody, you don't change anything. You just keep doing what
you're doing. I don't know if he just hasn't seen the ball well off me, I don't know. He's
just been looking for the wrong pitch or whatever the case may be. But again, for some
reason, I've had success, and I guess I just tried to stay with the same game plan, which
really isn't any different than anyone else.

Q. Tommy, you said you were a pretty darned good pitching staff, an exceptional
pitching staff. Do you ever think about how history will look back on the Glavine, Smoltz,
Maddux trio in baseball?

TOM GLAVINE: You know, the only time I really think about it is when I get asked about
it. I think that's the kind of thing that you don't think a whole lot about when you're
still playing, because you don't want to think about how history is going to look at you,
because you're admitting that the end of the line is coming, and I don't think any of us
are ready to do that yet. I think we're in a position now, where number one, we're
fortunate that we've been able to pitch together for a long time. It's been a lot of fun.
I think for us, we're just trying to go out there every year and give it what we have and
try and be successful and try to add to all those things we've done. And when it's all
said and done, the fact that people are even talking about us and trying to compare us
with the pitching staffs in the history of the game, it's a great thing to be a part of.
But again, I think that because we're still actively playing, it's the kind of thing that
you don't think about a whole lot.

Q. Tom, going back to the rivalry thing, John Rocker coming in and getting the save for
you. Your reaction with what went on with the fans and coming in here and pretty much get
the shutout and save for you? 

TOM GLAVINE: Well, he's created some controversy up here, but he went out there tonight
and walked the walk and he talked the talk, I guess. That's for him to -- that's his
thing. If that gets him motivated, then so be it. I know it's an awful lot different than
most of us. Most of us just want to quietly come in town and beat somebody and get out of
town. It works for him. John is an extremely intense individual. I know for me personally
when I pitch on the road and there's 50,000 people that want you to do poorly, it's a
motivation. I was motivated to go out and pitch well tonight because I knew everybody here
didn't want me to. I don't want to say anything to add to that, but he seems to thrive on
that kind of a thing. Some guys are just emotional, and as much as we may not like it, at
times you have to be careful not to take that emotion away from them, because it may
affect the way they ultimately do their job. He's the kind of guy that feeds on emotion,
and it's hard to argue with the success he's had all year.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT