NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 6, 1999
Tom Glavine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Hampton was compared to you stylistically earlier today. Can you see that?

TOM GLAVINE: I see a little bit of it this year, and I think it probably started a
little bit last year. Seemed to me that last year it looked like he made a little bit more
of an effort to work the outside part of the plates than he did. He was a guy that I think
worked primarily inside a lot and worked primarily to keep guys away. I think I remember
reading somewhere last year him saying that he was going to try to work the outside part
of the plate a little bit more, and it seems like every game that I've seen him pitch this
year, that's been his approach. He's had a fantastic year. You know, the styles are
similar. We're not going to blow anybody away. We rely on moving the ball around and
changing speeds. 

Q. Considering your success in the Dome, what was your reaction to this being the last
year?

TOM GLAVINE: Obviously, for selfish reasons, I'm disappointed to see it go. I've had
good success there and I think most pitchers in baseball, that's one of the few parks that
you go into now and feel like it's more of a pitcher's advantage than it is a hitter's
advantage. And those ballparks are few and far between now. Next year, we'll be battling
at another ballpark that is more hitter-friendly than pitcher-friendly. I guess, I just
try to get as comfortable as possible in the new building and start another streak there. 

Q. Before you started here, you said you wanted to stop analyzing yourself and go out
and pitch. If that's what you said, what exactly did you mean?

TOM GLAVINE: I think what I meant is obviously going through the kind of season that I
went through, it's not up to my standards. It's not up to what I guess people expect of
me, and, you know, when you get into a season like that, you find yourself pitching more,
I think to get out of it, to get yourself out of a hole than you do to just go out there
and pitch a ballgame to try and win. I think I got caught up in that a little bit. I think
I got caught up in that every time I went out there to pitch, I analyzed every little
thing I did. If I threw a bad pitch, I had to know why. If I didn't feel comfortable on a
particular hitter I had to know why. When you start analyzing everything from pitch to
pitch, it makes it awful difficult just to relax and just concentrate on what pitch you're
trying to make, and make that pitch to the best of your ability. I think that my last
three starts, I guess I got to the point frustration-wise where I just had had enough and
where I was sick of trying to figure everything out. I decided I was going to go out there
and take the ball and be as one hundred percent natural as I could be, every pitch I made.
If I made a bad pitch, you know, think about something good that would help me make an
adjustment on the next pitch, not try and figure out why I made a bad pitch, and throw the
next pitch with the intention of avoiding another bad pitch instead of with the intentions
of making a good pitch on the next one. I think again, as much as anything, I got caught
in the trap of: If I was pitching to avoid mistakes, more so than pitching to try to get
people out. 

Q. Would your mental approach be different o-2 rather than 1-1 on Friday?

TOM GLAVINE: No. I think my approach has to remain the same, regardless of the
situation. Obviously I would much rather be taking the mound Friday in a series that's
tied rather an a series we're down 2 in. But that won't change what I'm going to try to
do. I have to pitch a certain way to be successful, and circumstances won't change that,
and I can't try and do something different because of the circumstances. I can't take the
mound on Friday and say: "Well, I'm going to strike everybody out." It's not
going to happen. My game plan is what it is, and I have to execute it no matter the
circumstances in order for me to be successful. And I think that sometimes you make the
mistake of doing that. You look at the situation and tend to pitch more to the situation
and go out there and things you know you're good at. That's where pressure has an effect
on what happens in the course of a ballgame. Again, you look at the situation, and you try
and do something you're not capable of doing.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT