NL DIVISION SERIES: GIANTS v BRAVES
October 5, 2002
Bobby Cox
Tom Glavine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Tom, have you pitched much on three days' rest during the season and is that a tough adjustment? 

TOM GLAVINE:  I don't know, I don't think I've done it this year.  Certainly, I've done it a lot in the past, either in the regular season or in the post-season but it's not a big deal.  Particularly in the post-season, I think your adrenaline is such that you are ready to pitch anyway.  Most of the time during the regular season, you're ready to pitch on that day before you would pitch on a normal five-day rotation, so it's really not a big deal. 

Q.  Braves pitchers are known for throwing twice between the starts, this time you only threw one; what impact will that have? 

TOM GLAVINE:  That's basically the only adjustment.  You have one side session and one less day to wait to pitch.  As far as preparation, that's really the only change. 

Q.  Your pitching style is pretty much an open book but when a team hits you hard like the Giants did the other day, are there things that you do to adjust to that? 

TOM GLAVINE:  I don't know if I would agree they hit me hard.  They hit me.  If I was giving up line drives and home runs and whatnot I think it would be a lot easier to look at it and say I need to make an adjustment here, I need to do this, I need to do that.  I think the frustrating part of that game for me the other day was they did not hit a lot of balls hard.  Granted, they got six runs and ten hits and it all counts, but I think some of it was just them having an approach and doing a good job of sticking to their approach and getting results on it.  Really, from my standpoint, that's one of those games that you just kind of write off.  There's not much I felt like I needed to do differently or better or anything like that. I'm going to avoid the mind games by thinking the results were what they were so I need to make some changes.  There will be some things I'll do differently but not anything in terms of my mechanism.  I thought I threw the ball well.  I just didn't get good results.

Q.  How is Hammond today, and has Greg had anything other than the blister?

BOBBY COX:   Hammond is going to throw now before batting practice.  He felt real good today and he wanted to throw on the side a little bit to make 100% sure.  We feel like he can pitch today.  Maddux has no problems other than his blister.  His arm has never felt better. 

Q.  Dusty announced that Livan Hernandez will definitely be pitching tomorrow.  Is there any doubt in your mind that it would be Hernandez and what does he present to you as the opposing pitcher?

BOBBY COX:   I saw his last start here in Candlestick.  You know, it was a shutout.  He was outstanding.  I don't know why you would not start him.  He's a heck of a pitcher.

Q.  There have been a lot of games in between, but what do you remember about Livan last starting against you in the NLCS?

BOBBY COX:   Well, the first inning, basically, first and third no outs with Jones, Klesko and Fred McGriff hitting and none of them ever got the bat off their shoulder.  They came back and said the pitches were unhittable.  Three of them were in the batters box, and they were unhittable.  We could have blown the game wide open in the first inning, but unfortunately, everything he threw was called a strike and about 90 percent of them were not even close.  Just one of those days where the umpire had a bad day. 

Q.  Bobby, does that game stick in your craw?  Everybody knows about Greg's strike zone in that game.

BOBBY COX:   He didn't get any help in that game if you watch the tapes.  His were all on the black.  It was the other guy that got the calls.

Q.  Any adjustments you have to make after watching the tape?  Are they minor? 

TOM GLAVINE:  They won't be public, I'll tell you that.  No, I don't really see a lot that I have to change.  I think when you go back and you watch over a game, you're trying to find out if your location was good or bad.  If so, what adjustments you think you need to make mechanically to accomplish what you want.   But, you know what, I felt good on the mound.  I felt comfortable.  I felt like I was throwing the ball good.  You know, granted I think sometimes that may not always be the case and that's why you go look at the tape and see what your location was.  Honestly, for the most part, I hate to keep beating a dead horse; I think my location was very good in that game.  They just outexecuted me, and what adjustments I have to make off of that, you know, I'll formulate that over the next 24 hours. But I really don't see me making a lot of changes, particularly from a mechanical standpoint.  I'm just going to try to go out there and be as comfortable as I was last game and try to get better results.

Q.  How much of an advantage is it for any pitcher to pitch in this park, and what is it? 

TOM GLAVINE:  I don't know, to be honest with you.  I've only pitched here once or twice.  So I'm not all that familiar with it.  I know the numbers tend to suggest that it's a pitcher's ballpark.  Again, I can't argue with that.  I don't have enough of my own innings, I guess, to know one way or the other if that is true.  Certainly, there are ballparks as an opposing pitcher you come into and you think, wow, you have your work cut out for you.  This is not one of those ballparks.  You come in here and you really don't think much about the ballpark or the elements, and that tends to suggest it's a fair park.  Other parks, you know it's going to be a tough battle and it's on your mind from the get-go, but this place, it's never been a park that I've not looked forward to pitching in.  It's always seemed like a pretty fair ballpark to pitch in. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT