AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v INDIANS
October 11, 1999
Pedro Martinez
Troy O'Leary
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Troy, would you talk about last night. The team gets 24 hits, you go 0 for 6 and
then tonight. 
 
 A. (TROY O'LEARY) Well, last night was like a miracle night to try to bring us over
here for a fifth game. John Valentin had a great game. All year it's been a team effort.
It's not only been Nomar or Pedro. It's been Jason Varitek. It's been a great effort all
year. It's been, what's that word you want to say, camaraderie type of thing and it's been
a team effort all year.  
 
Q. What did it make you feel like when they intentionally walked Garciaparra to get to
you? 
 
 A. (TROY O'LEARY) It's been like that all year because of the player he is and the star
that he is. Sometimes I respond. Sometimes I don't; but tonight was a good night and now
we just have to go on and play the Yankees.  
 
Q. Pedro, what was going through your mind prior to going in? Did you feel 100 percent,
80 percent?
 
 A. (PEDRO MARTINEZ) No, not at all. As a matter of fact, I had doubts about my feelings
out there. Once I stepped on the mound, I never did. The first time I tried to pick up a
ball, I was in pain and then the next day, after working so much, almost day and night, I
showed some good results and then today, I had to come in at about four and I threw four
or five pitches and I felt pretty good and I don't want to find out anything else. I just
wanted to get the adrenaline going and get the mind going and hopefully that would drive
me to just throw the ball over the plate and see what I could do and that's what I did
tonight.  
 
Q. Pedro, after the first inning, did you have a much better feeling for how long you'd
be able to go? 
 
 A. (PEDRO MARTINEZ) No, not really because you're not pitching to just one more team.
It's the Cleveland Indians, the best offensive team that you can probably find. You know,
it was just a matter of, you know, when it was going to get tight or, you know, how far
the team would let me go and my team, Troy and those guys, they picked me up and they gave
me the lead and I decided I was the one that had to be out there until my shoulder respond
for me and I did that and we ended up winning the game, so I wasn't thinking about coming
out, but I knew I couldn't push myself to throw the fastball as fast as I could, I
couldn't throw my pitches as hard as I could, so I just laid the ball over, made good
pitches and hit the spots.  
 
Q. Pedro, it did seem as though your velocity increased the longer you were on the
mound. Did your back loosen up a little bit? 
 
 A. (PEDRO MARTINEZ) Well, it didn't, really, it felt a little bit tighter in the last
two innings, but I guess the adrenaline at that point and knowing that we had the lead and
knowing that I had to make sure that we kept the lead, I guess I was going a little
stronger and stronger and, you know, probably my muscles got looser a little bit, but I
felt a little bit tighter in the back, but I wasn't going to let go, I wasn't going to. I
decided that I was going to be out there and whatever happened happened and if they
decided to take me out in the middle of an inning, I would do that, but I had to be out
there as long as I could.  
 
Q. Pedro, the way it shakes out now, it looks like game three against the Yankees. Do
you have any concern about your back being ready for that?
 
 A. (PEDRO MARTINEZ) Not after this performance. I know at least I could go five, six
innings and stay there as long as I can and I talked to Dr. Pappas before I picked up the
first, the ball the first time and he said to me that my shoulder, my rotator cuff is not
in danger at any point because it wasn't under the shoulder blade and it doesn't have
anything to relate with the rotator cuff, which is the dangerous spot and after that, I
got confident it was just a matter of getting the strength and loosening up a little bit
and getting the shoulder going.  
 
Q. Troy, now that you've played a few years for the Red Sox and you've played in a few
of those Yankee/Red Sox games, would you talk about the magnitude of this series? 
 
 A. (TROY O'LEARY) Well, you guys know we have to have Pedro healthy, his brother. I
think we played well against them and I hope that we can respond, you know, and win. I
just want to say that, you know, we got a lot of heart on this team and Pedro tonight
showed it. He came out, he was hurt, he came out and pitched today like the Cy Young
winner that he is. He gave a good performance out there today.  
 A. (PEDRO MARTINEZ) Thank you. Just like you. You looked like MVPs today, the team, to
me, all of you are MVPs.            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT