MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY AIG
June 7, 2003
Janet Lindsay
Alice Miller
John Mizikar
Barb Trammell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: I will start out by introducing everybody here on our panel.  To our right we have Janet Lindsay, LPGA Tour rules officials and advance official for this tournament. 
Next to her is Barb Trammell, vice president of tournament operations for the LPGA. 
Next to her is Alice Miller, the McDonald's executive director. 
And next to her is John Mizikar, who is the manager of golf courses here at DuPont. 
Barb, if we could just start with you, some general comments about how everything progressed today and what went into making the decision that was made. 
BARB TRAMMELL:  We suspended play at 9:55 this morning, basically, because we had several greens -- because of the rain, and the greens that were already pretty much to a saturation point because of the amount of rainfall that DuPont has experienced over the past couple weeks, and even earlier.  It started to puddle and go under, and at that point we suspended because we already had, I would say, five or six greens pretty much wet at the same time, and announced to the players that we would make a further announcement as to the status of the day at noon, at which time we met with various tournament sponsors, our staff, and, also, wanted to get the latest updated weather from our meteorologist. 
At about 11:00, 11:30, it became clear to us, we were expecting another round of moderate rain, and prior to that, the amount of rain that actually forced the greens to go under was not even to the moderate stage yet, so you could tell, with the light rain, we were actually quite surprised at how early we noticed some puddles appearing on the greens. 
So we knew that if we got a moderate amount, it would force us to have to suspend, which it did.  We made the determination, though, just before noon that we would not be able to play any more golf today, based on the forecast, which was for rain continually throughout the remainder of the day, some light, some moderate, and even heavy at times, but will last into the early evening hours. 
So we did announce to the players at that point that we were calling play for the day and will resume at 7:30 tomorrow morning, with hopes of completing play, 72 holes, by tomorrow afternoon. 
We do plan to  -- and made this decision a little bit later, but in looking at the numbers, feel as if all things, if we can start at 7:30, and resume, and barring any future delays in the morning, can be able, hopefully, to finish on time at 6:00 p.m., and to do that, we have elected not to repair for round 4.  In other words, the groups will turn around, play in the same groupings that they are for Round 3, and basically, we will begin Round 4 while the final groups of Round 3 are still completing their rounds. 
So, basically, keeping the same groups, that saves us a good bit of time and gives us the opportunity, with all things going, hopefully, as planned, to finish by 6:00  o'clock tomorrow morning. 
So that's, basically, what we are looking at for tomorrow, and just need a little help from Mother Nature.

MODERATOR: Alice, maybe you could comment, from a tournament perspective, on the day, how everything unfolded and what you look for tomorrow.
ALICE MILLER:  Well, it's been, obviously, a very challenging week with the weather, and all of us that live here realize the spring we have had, so it's very unfortunate, a lot of people have worked very hard on the tournament, volunteers, the sponsors and the staff, the DuPont Country Club and our staff. 
The thing I have to keep reminding myself, at the end of the day we are still going to raise a significant amount of money for the children's charities and help a lot of kids less fortunate than ourselves, that's not going to be affected, so for the fans and the spectators and the volunteers, it's disappointing and it's challenging, but if we look at our true measure of success, we are still having a great week. 
From a tournament perspective, and a competition standpoint, we very much want to get in 72 holes.  This is a major championship, and we feel we have more than a reasonable chance to do that tomorrow.  We need one little break on the weather.  Hopefully, the forecast is accurate and it does let up early tonight, and these guys who have been working around the clock can get out there and have it prepped for in the morning.  And we just need a little bit of a break. 
As Barb says, I was a little bit surprised that the greens went as quickly as they did with that amount of rainfall, but it shows you how saturated the conditions are.  We have had a lot of rain here, folks, there's no doubt about it.  We need a little bit of a break, but I think we have a very good chance to get in 72 holes tomorrow, and the players will be exhausted, and hopefully, the fans will still have a good show, but at the end of the day, we will still have a successful week, in spite of the weather.

MODERATOR: John, maybe you can talk about your crew and what it's going to take to get the course ready and have a 7:30 start.
JOHN MIZIKAR:  After the call was made to suspend play for the day, we assembled our crew members and let them know we will be needing part of the staff, at midnight tonight, to come in and pump the bunkers out, and hopefully we will have that done in time, and the other half of the staff will come in at 5:00 a.m. and take care of everything else we need to do. 
We are planning on, at this time, mowing the greens and doing as much as we can, but luckily we got a lot done last night and this morning. 

MODERATOR:  Okay.  We will take some questions now. 
Q.  Barb, for anybody, what are the weather forecasts that you have both for Sunday and Monday, and if you had to, would you finish this tournament on Monday? 
BARB TRAMMELL:  Well, right now our forecast for tomorrow is pretty good.  They do  -- they throw in a chance for some scattered afternoon showers, the latest model -- we weren't expecting that -- but the latest model throws it in, but our meteorologist indicates that it's an outside chance.  We think we have got a pretty good chance of playing all day tomorrow and, hopefully, finishing by tomorrow. 
But that's our goal.  If we got to a point, for instance, that we had a delay tomorrow afternoon, played all the way until 5:30, 6:00 p.m. and did not finish and had a few holes left, yes, we would come back Monday morning and resume and finish the round. 

Q.  What is your forecast for Monday?
BARB TRAMMELL: Forecast for Monday is better, actually.  A couple of days ago it did not look good, we had a chance for another storm coming through, but Andy Pearman, our meteorologist, indicated today that that model has changed, it actually is a little more optimistic than it was, outside chance of some scattered activity, but, again, it's not like a big wave of storms coming in like earlier we had thought.

Q.  John, can you talk more specifically about what you need to do to prepare the course.  You mentioned pumping out the bunker business.  I am assuming you have to squeegee off so many greens, but what else would you have to do?
JOHN MIZIKAR:  We will make that assessment in the morning.  Hopefully the rain will end sometime around midnight and we will get some natural just drainage happening.  Obviously, they are quite wet from the amount of water we have had the past few weeks, and if we have to squeegee, we will make that assessment at that time and do whatever is necessary to get the course playable, championship caliber.

Q.  Barb, you mentioned if you have a few holes left you will continue to play Monday.  Is there like a cut-off point where you say that's too many holes to go into Monday with, say if the leaders play only three holes like they did today, would you come back on Monday or would you just call it after 54?
BARB TRAMMELL:  It's hard to say, and we are not going to speculate any further than looking at tomorrow's round and playing as much golf as we can tomorrow.  If we came in tomorrow and it looked like we cannot not even tee off tomorrow, then we would reevaluate with all the powers that be, the tournament sponsor and LPGA staff, but right now our focus is to play as much golf as we can tomorrow with the goal of finishing 72 holes by dark tomorrow, and we have until about 8:15 that we can play.

Q.  If you could go a little more in depth, you said you have like half your crew will be working at midnight.  How many people are involved in that situation?  And, also, I mean, just judging from what you saw this morning with the rain coming down, what were the conditions like?  How do they appear to you? 
JOHN MIZIKAR:  Well, the bunker crews will be coming in at midnight, it is 16 guys.  We have seven bunker pumps and we will have two-man teams.  We can't really get around very well with a vehicle, so we will have to stay on the cart paths and physically take some of the bunker pumps into place.  It's more efficient to have two guys working and just to try to get that done as quickly as possible. 
After the water is removed from the bunkers, we have to go in and do some mechanical work with a trap machine to try to get the surfaces back into a condition, and then we will just come in and rake them by hand to try to get them back into a playable condition. 
So that's 16 guys there, and then we will bring the rest of the staff, 35, 40 guys in just to do cleanup work, divots, get the greens prepped, any squeegee work, and any other conditioning we can do in that period of time, and given the amount of rain we have, what we can also get done. 

Q.  What were the  -- I mean, how did you see the conditions this morning when you guys decided to stop play?  Was it pretty much unbearable?
JOHN MIZIKAR:  Yeah, I looked at 10 greens while I was talking to Janet and it looked like someone had put a lake where a green once was, so we knew at that time we really didn't have much of a shot, and as they all said earlier, it didn't take a lot of precipitation before the greens really did become unplayable.

Q.  Barb, procedurally, what's the latest point at which you could revert it to a 54-hole tournament?  Is it when a certain number of people have finished their round or  --
BARB TRAMMELL:  No, we really don't have  -- again, I want to reiterate, the main goal is tomorrow, and we are focusing on that and playing as much golf as we can tomorrow.  It totally depends on when we are able to start tomorrow, and if we can start at 7:30, I feel very confident we are going to get 72 holes in, regardless, if we don't get that by 8:00  o'clock tomorrow night, then we will finish Monday 72 holes. 
If we come out here tomorrow and by some weird happening that we get rain all night and we can't tee off tomorrow or can't tee off until 4:00 or 5 :00 o'clock in the afternoon, again, we would reevaluate what our plan of attack would be at that point, but I don't anticipate us being put in that position.

Q.  In a worst case scenario, Barb, what would be the problem with playing the final round on Monday? 
BARB TRAMMELL:  No problem in playing the final round on Monday, as far as we are concerned. 
ALICE MILLER:  Well, we wouldn't have too many spectators, no concession food for them.  From an operational standpoint, you know, it's challenging, just for the volunteer base that we have, volunteer core, getting them to come out.  All of our concessions, it's all donated by McDonald's owner/operators, and many of them are not within this region, so we would have very limited concessions, but we will still put on a show, but hot dogs may be few and far between.

Q.  Is there any fear, though, that if you don't get in 72 holes, it takes away your credibility of a major? 
ALICE MILLER:  That precedent -- what year was it -- we went to 54 holes.

Q.  '96.
ALICE MILLER:  It's not unheard of.  We look at it as kind of a last resort, so to speak.  Obviously, all of our goals, both from the tournament side, sponsor side, LPGA standpoint, is to play 72 holes because it is a major championship.  It would be an easier decision, perhaps, if it were not a major, but we also have to be realistic given the forecast, and whether and what Barb said is true, it just depends on the start in the morning and how tomorrow goes and we can reevaluate that.
BARB TRAMMELL:  We have had this discussion, we are fully prepared to play on Monday if we have to, we just would like to -- the number one goal is to complete by TV time if we can, that's the ultimate goal, and if that's not possible, then by 8:00  o'clock tomorrow night, or by dark.

Q.  If we start round 4 are we committed to finishing round 4? 
BARB TRAMMELL:  Not necessarily.  Okay.  I don't want to commit myself one way or the other.  It totally depends on the circumstances.  When you get into weather scenarios, there is not a cookie-cutter formula that works every week, and we have to take it one day at a time and, conditions notwithstanding, obviously dictate a lot of what happens as well.  I mean, obviously we cannot play Tuesday, so we've got to gear around finishing as many holes as we can, hopefully, by tomorrow morning.  If we are forced to go into Monday to complete 72, we are all prepared to do that.

Q.  Alice, could you just talk about maybe from the attendance standpoint of having a situation where Annika Sorenstam is in the lead, something that probably would bring fans out, and then this happening, having, I guess, 3,000 as the attendance number today, and how you think attendance will be tomorrow with where we stand?
ALICE MILLER:  Boy, Doug, it's hard to say.  Annika's whole situation and all the excitement around her has been good for attendance.  Given the weather we have had this week, and kind of the muddy conditions for the spectators, and the challenges with the parking, we have been very pleased with our crowds the first two rounds. 
You can look at it two ways, I guess:  On the one hand, we tend to think we could have had just a blockbuster year attendance-wise given some good weather.  On the other hand, I look at it and thing if there wasn't all this attention surrounding Annika, we wouldn't have had as good of crowds as we have had. 
So we have had very, very good attendance, and with some good weather, even with a nice day tomorrow, I think we could have really a nice crowd out there. 
I really would say if we went to Monday, you know, with certain people still playing in the last group, which they will be, we will have spectators out here.  We will still have all the structures up, still have bleachers, and limited concessions, and we will still put on a good show, but, yeah, definitely, attendance, the weather, every week that affects tournaments, and it's the one thing we can't control. 
But I have been very, very pleased with the attendance in spite of the weather and attribute a lot of that to the excitement around Annika.

Q.  Will you have a chance to cut new hole positions for the fourth round? 
JOHN MIZIKAR:  Yes, we will.  I understand there will be a slight gap in between the third and fourth round.  That will give us an opportunity to go out and change hole locations, do some rolling, get the greens back into smooth conditions, since they are so soft, so we will do  -- whatever opportunity we have, we will make every effort to get it as playable as possible.

Q.  Barb, if you guys finish tomorrow the 72nd hole by, let's say, 6:30, quarter to 7:00, do you know what the situation is with CBS?  Do they go off the air at 6:00 or are they obligated to carry this through to a conclusion?
BARB TRAMMELL:  That's probably more of a tournament question.
ALICE MILLER:  I know a couple years ago they stayed on for an extra half hour.  We do have some leeway as far as going over.  There is no hard and fast obligation on the part of CBS.  There may be some extra cost to the tournament, but I think CBS is probably limited as to how far they can go.  Can they go an extra half hour?  Maybe.  That's a good question to ask them.  Would they go a couple hours extra?  No, I don't think so.  We probably have a little bit of overflow, but it's not a lot.
JIM MURRAY:  The Herb Lottman factor, he is very persuasive, we may not take the place of 60 Minutes, but I think if the tournament goes past 6:00, we will be on the air.  

Q.  I am just curious, how much rain this spring and this week and how many days  -- I thought I read somewhere that at least in Virginia, 24 days in May.  Are you pretty much the same way here? 
JOHN MIZIKAR:  I think I saw a stat in the news journal not too long ago, around the end of May, that there was two days in May, I think it was the 18th and 19th, we had sunshine.  The rest of the days were either cloudy or raining and damp, so we really didn't get much drying weather. 
Rainfall total amounts, I have lost track, to be quite frank with you.  I know today, right before we suspended play, we had six-tenths, and I am sure that has accumulated beyond that, so it's just been one of the wetter springs that I can recall.

Q.  John, with the rain scheduled to end late tonight, does seven  and a half hours give you enough time to get the course in really playable condition? 
JOHN MIZIKAR:  Well, I can say that the staff is dedicated to do whatever they can do.  I believe it does.  Will it be as perfect as we want it to be?  No.  We wish we could mow everything and have a sunny, nice dry day where the skies are blue and we can put all our touches to it, but given what we have, we will have it as playable as, you know, earthly possible. 

Q.  Janet, I guess this might be best for you.  Just procedurally, with the players having marked their balls out there now, is there any worry about anything floating away, or even as the crews get out and work, how do you make sure that those marks are maintained? 
JANET LINDSAY:  Well, John and I have already spoken about this, and to prepare his  -- tomorrow  -- obviously, we are not as concerned about the markings in the fairway, or elsewhere other than the greens, and since they will be mowing the greens in the morning, we have alerted his crew  -- they have alerted their crew, obviously, to  -- it's going to take them a little bit more time to make sure that you have someone literally eyeballing or picking up the markers and then replacing them after the green has been mowed.  So they are going to make every effort possible to return the markers back where they were. 
Now, of course, if they are not, if, for some reason, the player's marker has  -- you know, it just disappears or it isn't returned to the same spot, there are rules for that, so we anticipate some calls in the morning from players with either markers that have  -- are gone altogether, or perhaps in another location, they say that's not where they were, and, again, there are rules there to cover it, and we are going to be ready to help them.

Q.  Can you give us like a broad stroke idea of what the rules say in that situation.
JANET LINDSAY:  Certainly.  Well, first of all, if there is no marker at all there, the rules say  -- and, of course, you have the three players and the three caddies there, so they make their best estimate as to where the ball was when it was marked, and then they simply replace the ball or the marker on the spot where the marker was, they simply replace it there, so they would place it. 
Same thing if they show up  -- and this happens periodically, where the player says that's not where my markers were, I know I was closer because this ball mark over here, this old hole plug, and again, they come to an agreement among themselves that, in fact, it had not been really replaced where their marker was. 
And very often we get called into that kind of a call.  And again, the game is a game of integrity, et  cetera, and players aren't trying to gain anything here, they are just trying to get their ball back where it was when we suspended. 
And so again, we would just place the ball on the spot where the ball was when it was marked.

Q.  Do you see that happening often or occasionally, like when, you know, you have big rainstorms like this? 
JANET LINDSAY:  Again, it happens occasionally.  For the most part, no, it doesn't happen that often.  We can understand that certainly John's crew will have enough  -- they are going to have enough challenges in the morning to get ready for the restart of play, but we do find that they are very, very  -- you know, they are very, very careful. 
And they do work with us, and they want to do the best job possible, and they want to get that spot right back where it was, but every now and then we do have a marker that disappears, and it happens, and, you know, it doesn't happen often, but I can anticipate some of that in the morning.

Q.  Barb, will players be like directed right from 18 green to 1 tee when they finish their round, or will they get like a short break for a sandwich or something? 
BARB TRAMMELL:  Yeah, they will have, actually, have a pretty good break.  We anticipate  -- again, we are going to see  -- if, in fact, we are able to start right at 7:30, and then based on the pace that it takes us to complete Round 3, and we will actually set estimated starting times for Round 4 while they are still finishing up Round 3, but we anticipate a good break, probably even for the first group, at least an hour, I would think, plus. 
Again, that's based on if we start on time, no further delays, such that I think every group will probably have at least an hour.

Q.  John, is this going to be the greatest challenge that you and your crew have faced any time of the year with this course, trying to get ready for tomorrow? 
JOHN MIZIKAR:  Speaking for myself, yes.  Speaking for those on the staff who have been through the many tournaments they have had here  -- but I would have to say yes.  Your latest challenge is your worst challenge, I suppose, so yes, I would have to say so.
BARB TRAMMELL:  I would just like to say on behalf of the LPGA, John and  -- John Gosselin and his crew have just done a fantastic job this week with preparing the golf course under some extremely adverse conditions, and we want to commend all the long hours that they have put in.  It is no small task to prepare a golf course after the amount of rainfall that they have had here. 
I don't know if any of you have had the opportunity to walk out on the golf course, but if you walk out there right now, you would say there is no way we can play at all tomorrow.  And it's no small miracle, I might add, if we can start at 7:30 and have no problems.  So again, they have done just a fantastic job, and we really want to thank them.

Q.  Just out of curiosity, how do you mark a ball in a bunker, and what do you do in the rough, as well? 
JANET LINDSAY:  You can handle it the same way you do on the putting green, actually.  In the bunker, you can mark it with a tee, you can mark it with a coin.

Q.  And then replace your ball the next day, you don't have to drop it?
JANET LINDSAY:  I am sorry, marking it is the same, you mark it with a marker or a tee, even, in the bunker.  Unfortunately, in a bunker, you would be dropping it on the spot instead of placing it.  That is if the marker is gone and you are estimating the position.  But you do replace it, if your marker is still there, you would be replacing it, so you just put it on the spot.

Q.  Oh, in the bunker, you do?
JANET LINDSAY:  In the bunker, that's correct.  I misunderstood the question.  The marking process is the same.  The replacing process is the same if the marker is there.  If the marker is missing, or you are estimating the position, then you would be dropping it.  Now, in the rough it's the same thing, you would be placing it if the marker is still in position, dropping it if it's not.  Only on the putting green, obviously, you would place.

Q.  And are there little flags to mark it in the rough, because the rough is so deep, use those jumbo tees? 
JANET LINDSAY:  In whatever manner.  Our players tend to put several tees in, so they probably put a few in. 

MODERATOR: Any more questions? 
Q.  John, can you kind of give us even a rough estimate like how many hours you and your crew have put in this week on the course?  Can you even count? 
JOHN MIZIKAR:  I think if I gave you a rough estimate, I would probably have underestimated the amount of time.  I know that the assistant, Scott Kroll and John Klempa and some of the folks  -- most of the folks on their staff have put in just an incredible amount of time in their efforts, working late into the night, and I can't do that, I am too old.  They would wear me out.  So they have done a great job, the whole staff has done a great job.  It's just interesting to see them put forth the effort and come in at any time that you ask them, hey, we need you at midnight tomorrow night, you know, tonight, to come in and pump bunkers, and the guys are very willing.  Obviously, they take great pride in what they do and want to put forth the best product.

MODERATOR: Anything else?  All right.  Thank you all very much.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT