AL DIVISION SERIES: RED SOX v ANGELS
October 4, 2004
Jarrod Washburn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Jarrod, looking back on the season, who was the toughest or most -- best team that you have played this season, in your eyes? 

JARROD WASHBURN:  I don't know.  Oakland is always a tough team.  We had battled them right down to the wire, and they got a great team.  Maybe it's because we had to play them so many times that I think they are the toughest, but Yankees and Boston are both great teams.  The Twins are great, but Oakland sticks out in my mind. 


Q.  Aside from the fact we won the division, what were your thoughts Saturday when you realized what it was going to be when it was the possibility of you starting the first game? 

JARROD WASHBURN:  I was hoping we would win that game Saturday so I would start the first game and not have to start Sunday, but no different thought process.  You know, it's just another game.  I started the first game in '02, so hopefully me starting the first game is a good sign for us.  


Q.  Jarrod, can you just give us your thoughts on Boston's line up.  

JARROD WASHBURN:  They are pretty good.  No, they are very patient hitters, they know the strike zone very well and they got those two big guys in the middle of the lineup that can hurt you if you make a mistakes, so I think the key is to make good pitches, go ahead in the count and try to limit mistakes against them and try to make sure to keep guys off base and in front of Ortiz and Ramirez. 


Q.  You mentioned -- you brought up '02.  How does that come into play?  What difference does that make right now to your team?  You have a lot of guys that have been through that experience.  

JARROD WASHBURN:  None.  It doesn't make any difference at all.  People talk about having experience and that being valuable and stuff, but in '02 we didn't have any experience at all and we won, so I guess that's not real important to us.  I think -- I think everybody is happy that we won in '02 and we can take -- learn from some of the experience we had in that season, but '02 right now doesn't mean anything.  This is 2004 and nothing we did then is going to give any points towards winning.  We have to play good ball, and maybe we will have the same outcome as '02. 


Q.  Jarrod, from a statistical standpoint, the Red Sox were the two hitting teams right behind the Angels, or the one hitting team.  Obviously, from a pitching perspective, do you see similarities between these two lineups? 

JARROD WASHBURN:  A little bit.  You know, the fact that there is some big offensive weapons in the middle of both of the lineups.  You know, we got Boston, Anderson and Vladdy that can hurt you.  You make mistakes, they are going to make you pay, and they got some huge offense in the middle of their lineup.  I think they are quite a bit more patient than we are, and, you know, offensively I think we run a lot more than they do.  So there are some similarities, but there is also quite a few differences, so it's going to be fun.  


Q.  Jarrod, did the last week and a half of the season feel like the playoffs? 

JARROD WASHBURN:  Yeah, it did.  You know, every game was huge, and it came right down to the wire, especially those last three games in Oakland.  It definitely felt like the playoffs.  It, basically, was, an extra round of the playoffs for us.  Yeah, it had a great feeling, and I think it got everybody ready for what we need to do starting tomorrow.  


Q.  You are pitching against -- I am sure you are going to say you are pitching against the Red Sox lineup, not against Schilling, but a pitcher of that caliber, when you are going against him, do you go in thinking you have a reduced margin for error? 

JARROD WASHBURN:  No, my job doesn't change.  You know, I go into every game trying to throw a shutout.  I have achieved my goal once, but it's something that, you know, going in against Curt, you know you are going to have a very small margin for error there, but, you know, like you said, I am not the one bat, so I don't concern myself with that.  My job is to go out and limit their lineup to a few runs and, hopefully, zero runs and give us a chance to win.  And, you know, it doesn't matter who I am pitching against, my job is the same.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT