NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 2, 2003
Dany Heatley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  First year at the All-Star game, started out five goals, one assist; pretty impressive.
 
DANY HEATLEY:  It was fun.  I got to play with Jaromir Jagr and Olli Jokinen.  It was a lot of fun.  I've enjoyed the weekend. 
 
Q.  What about having Gretzky come in between periods, the second and the third.  I know he encouraged you to give five, six, seven goals, whatever.  I'm sure that was very meaningful for him.
 
DANY HEATLEY:  It was very meaningful.  It was great to see him.  I appreciate him coming out. 
 
Q.  Are you going to be driving that truck back to Atlanta?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  We're going to get that shipped.  I don't want to make that drive.  I've got to go to practice tomorrow. 
 
Q.  Can you tell us about two years ago they were talking on TV about cradling a Jaromir Jagr stick at an auction.  Can you relate that story?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  It was a golf tournament.  I finally  -- I didn't get one that time.  I got one this year.  It was even better to play with him tonight. 
 
Q.  Has he been an idol of yours?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  Yeah, he was someone I grew up watching when I was younger.  It was pretty special to be on the same line with him tonight. 
 
Q.  Your first All-Star game you got a hat trick in the first period.  You almost have to pinch yourself and say, "Is this really happening?"
 
DANY HEATLEY:  I was pretty relaxed.  After I got the first one I was pretty happy.  After that, they kept going in.  I kept cruising around and shooting the puck. 
 
Q.  How did it feel to get the hat trick?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  It was an unbelievable feeling.  I thought I would come in here and have fun.  It was awesome and I hope all my friends were watching at home. 
 
Q.  Also, what does it take to score a lot of goals?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  You shoot the puck.  I don't know.  Quick release and shoot the puck.  I got some good passes from those guys, good linemates, too. 
 
Q.  Dany, could you sense that the players on the other team were even pulling for you as you had four goals to get five goals?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  I think they were trying to stop me.  It was a pretty intense game the last little while.  No one wanted to give up anything.  It was fun to end that way. 
 
Q.  Can you go through and describe your goals.  I think your first one was on your second shot.  Do you even remember them?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  The first one I remember giving it away, and I had to get it back, and I shot it, and it went in.  The second one I batted it in the air.  The other two were great passes, and I shot it in the open net. 
 
Q.  Dany, the reaction of the fans when the announcer said that the game would go into a shootout was instantaneous.  How do you feel like the game being  --
 
DANY HEATLEY:  I think it was good the way it went tonight with the overtime and shootout.  It's exciting for the fans and exciting for us.  It added a little more excitement. 
 
Q.  Would you like that to be at the regular season, too?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  Yeah, we would try it first in the preseason and see how is goes, and maybe if it's successful, put it in the regular season. 
 
Q.  Your first goal came against Patrick Roy, how much of a special feeling was it knowing you beat, arguably, one of the best goaltenders of all time?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  It's unbelievable.  As you said, he's probably the best of all time.  I think it was a lucky shot.  I kind of shot it on the net and it found its way in.  
 
Q.  Dany, Dave Lewis said if you got another goal, he was going to challenge your stick.  Was your stick legal?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  Mine's legal, yes. 
 
Q.  Dany, can you imagine playing the game with that much room on the ice during the regular season.  Obviously there was no hitting and things like that today.  At one time there was a lot of room out there.
 
DANY HEATLEY:  I think there is too much.  When we go back to our regular teams it's going to be a little bit of a wake-up call.  It was fun for the fans and it was an exciting game tonight. 
 
Q.  There was a little mic interference.  If you could say what this day has meant to you again.
 
DANY HEATLEY:  I'm pumped to be here.  I just wanted to come in here and enjoy the weekend and it's more than I could ever have asked for. 
 
Q.  How do you plan to celebrate winning the MVP award?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  Not too big.  I've got to go to practice tomorrow.  My parents are here.  I'll hang out with them.  I don't get to see them very often.  Other than that, it's back to Atlanta for the rest of the season. 
 
Q.  Dany, I don't know if you've answered this already, but were you aware, or how aware were you of the All-Stars game record for goals scored as well as points, and having scored a goal in the shootout, did you think that counted towards the record?  Was any of that in your mind?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  No.  JR was reminding me every second of every period.  I wasn't worried about it.  
 
Q.  How much do you think a game like this will improve your notoriety, not just in hockey circles but maybe across this country?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  I think it's good.  I'm starting to grow in this division as I'm starting to get better.  It's good for the whole game. 
 
Q.  Jeremy Roenick said you were a better person than you were a hockey player, even you could become an ambassador like Wayne Gretzky and Mario Lemieux.  Could you see yourself doing that?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  We'll see.  Obviously they are superstars and the best players that ever played the game.  I don't think I'm even close to them.  I want to keep going and improve my game every year and we'll see what happens. 
 
Q.  You've got a new coach, Bob Hartley.  How much are you looking forward to playing with Bob the rest of the season.  Obviously, he must be very proud of what you accomplished today.
 
DANY HEATLEY:  It was good to have him come in a couple weeks ago.  We have been playing a lot better under him.  We feel if we keep going, anything can happen in the second half.  I just want to get back and enjoy the team again. 
 
Q.  Dany, what are you driving home?
 
DANY HEATLEY:  I'm flying.  I might send that one up to my brother. 
 
Q.  What kind of car do you drive normally? 
 
DANY HEATLEY:  BMW.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT