NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: SENATORS v DUCKS
June 4, 2007
Dany Heatley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Disappointed after getting that lead in the first and not being able to -   
 DANY HEATLEY:  I thought we really played well in the first, really took it to them real badly.  The goal by Alfy kept me wasted in the second.  They took the play to me in the second.  And the third, they got a break.  And made us pay.    
  
  Q.  Playoffs longer, the opponents had to face this type of a steep climb, how do you face it?   
 DANY HEATLEY:  You gotta be positive.  Nothing comes easy.  This is not a situation we wanted to be in.  But we have no choice.  We gotta run the table now obviously and we're going into that, steel one, and come back here in a couple of days.   
  
  Q.  There has to be confidence on the road.  You guys are a good road team.    
 DANY HEATLEY:  Yeah, backs against the wall.  We just gotta go play now.  Like I said, this is not the position we wanted, but this is where we're at right now.   
  
  Q.  They split up you and Alfy and both your lines didn't have success tonight.  Obviously, a positive sign if you go to Anaheim, that's the way it is.    
 DANY HEATLEY:  We played - we got a goal out of the two different lines.  We gotta keep getting better.  Two goals is not enough when they score three.   
  
  Q.  (Question off microphone)?   
 DANY HEATLEY:  It's really at this point irrelevant.  We lost a game.  Whether you're scoring or whether you're not, I think it's all about winning and losing.  That's all I'm concerned about.   
  
  Q.  What do you say to yourself going into Game 5 to try to keep the spirits up?   
 DANY HEATLEY:  I mean, we can't look at the past.  We can't look at the history.  We can't look at the odds.  It's all about one game at a time from now.  Just stealing one on the road.  Getting it back in our building, going from there.    
  
  Q.  Played nicely tonight.  Can you take us through your goal.    
 DANY HEATLEY:  Spezza made a good play.  Stopped up and chipped it deep.  And saw that we kind of had a little two-on-one at the net and Patty made a great step and a great pass.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT