WNBA FINALS: FEVER v LYNX
October 11, 2015
Maya Moore
Lindsay Whalen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Maya, they had a run in the third quarter, put them up 14 points. Then you guys made a run at the end. They had one basket in the final quarter. Just talk about your defense in that last ten minutes after you guys went back against Indiana with a chance to pull another one out. 
MAYA MOORE: We just tried to make everything hard in that fourth quarter. Just playing with a little more awareness, a little more connectedness of trying to help each other when we could, being active. Fortunately, we turned the ball over, got a couple of shots that didn't go in, and we were able to come back and push the pace a little bit. Got into a little bit of a foul game, and they missed a few, and we were able to execute on the other end. 
The game was busted open with that 14‑point deficit, and we didn't have enough to recover from that run. That was a big run that ended up being the difference in the game. 

Q. For either of you, Indiana 25 of 29 from the free‑throw line. What made their offense so difficult to stop without fouling in this game?
MAYA MOORE: Generally, when you're the more aggressive team, you're going to end up going to the foul line. They were very determined to be on the attack to the inside. So we have to do a better job of playing to our identity, which is a team that protects the paint and doesn't foul. 
So their game plan was to get to the paint, get to the free‑throw line, and ours was to stop that. So they did that better than we did in these 40 minutes.

Q. Lindsay, your thoughts about the decisive Game 5 back at Target Center? 
LINDSAY WHALEN: Yeah, now it's take care of your bodies and get ready for Wednesday night. Regroup and see what you can do better, see kind of what the video will teach us and go out there and try to execute the game plan that the coaches give us to the best of our abilities. 

Q. Maya, obviously, you guys wanted to close out tonight, but if you take a step back a second, just for the league, having the series go five games with two teams that have been so close for the first four, is it kind of neat for the league to have a fifth deciding game for the first time in a few years? 
MAYA MOORE: Sure. I don't know if neat is how we feel‑‑ no, I hear you. It's great for everyone to watch. The series has been a fun one to watch, I think, especially the last few games have been very fun, I think, just from a fan standpoint. 
So a lot of great things happening. Players making plays. Sometimes you can have all the schemes and sets in the world, but it comes down to players making plays. You've seen a lot of that in this series. One more game to see which players do that more. 

Q. Maya, even though you're not excited about playing a Game 5, you've got to be excited about being able to go home to play the Game 5 in front of your fans and be able to have the home court advantage, which you played for all season to get? 
COACH REEVE: Yeah, absolutely. Definitely not pleased with the way we executed our game plan today, but without question, if I was to say where do I want to finish my season, it would be at the Target Center. That's going to be a great opportunity for us and our fans to really be who we've been all season. That's the beauty of it. We don't have to be anything more than who we are. We just need to be ourselves at home, and we have a really good chance if we do that. 
It's going to be hard, but if I was to, like I said, have a choice, I'd want to do it in the Target Center. 

Q. Lindsay, you got off to a pretty good start tonight. I think the best you played in the whole series early on. Were you trying to be more aggressive and get your shot going as opposed to letting it react? 
LINDSAY WHALEN: Yeah, Early on, I thought there was a couple of opportunities to get in the lane and make some things happen. Had a couple of great passes in there, and that's what we're all trying to do is trying to make plays for our team and make the plays. 
Yeah, tonight there was a couple of openings and just tried to, like I said, get in there and make a couple things happen. Just do what I could. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT