WNBA FINALS: FEVER v LYNX
October 19, 2012
Maya Moore
Lindsay Whalen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







INDIANA   76
  MINNESOTA   59

Q.   What did Indiana do differently this game to disrupt your rhythm and get you guys out of what you do? 
MAYA MOORE:   They just played hard.   They were aggressive.   They pretty much had the same game plan.   I think it was more us not playing like we should have.   They played exactly how they should have, and we didn't. 

Q.   Lindsay, can you talk about why that WAS on a big night, maybe why you didn't come to play the way you wanted to? 
LINDSAY WHALEN:   I think it was just we had turnovers in the start of the game.   I think that that along with some offensive rebounds just kind of snowballed there at the start for us. 
Then obviously the second and third quarters were not great for us, but I think just starting out, we have to be a lot better at taking care of the ball and not having mental mistakes. 
All of those things kind of were just one after the other there at the start.   Ended up having to kind of take some time‑outs to try to regroup.   It was just a tough start for us. 

Q.   Coach talked about the rebounding differential, but one thing I'm noticing in the stat line is that throughout the other games in the series, and actually even in your earlier playoff rounds, your ball movement was great and a very high percentage of your shots were assisted; not so tonight.   What were they doing to disrupt ball movement? 
LINDSAY WHALEN:   Well, I think moving the ball and assists have been one of our strong points all year.   Tonight we had‑‑ we only had six. 
So you know, I think they were aggressive; they were in our cuts; they were‑‑ I think they had us back on our heels.   Any time that happens‑‑
MAYA MOORE:   Trying to deny catches and reversals and things like that. 
Just saying they were denying reversal passes, denying a lot of wing passes, which will make it harder to get assists and to get a flow on offense, so we have to respond better. 

Q.   On a related note, how do you get yourself going again in the interior, because that really worked well for you in Game2 and opened things up.   Game3, Indiana shut you down like they did in the first game, and things just seemed to snowball from that point. 
LINDSAY WHALEN:   I think that's always one of the things we need to try to do is work the ball inside out.   We know that's going to get us better shots; that it's going to bring up our assists total.   It's all kind of, you know, just things that we need to work on and get better for Game4. 
You know, we have great passers all over the floor, and we need to make sure we are getting inside, putting pressure on their defense, and then you know, finding easier shots.   I think that's one of the things with the ball movement is that we ended up taking really tough shots and not sharing the ball. 
So obviously working it inside, inside‑out, back in, is what you want to do. 

Q.   You were down by 37 points at one time in this game.   How do you regroup?   Does a loss like that shake your confidence at all that you can win the next two games? 
MAYA MOORE:   Confidence, no.   We've played too many games together as a team to lose confidence.   Disappointed, yes.   But fired up, yes.   We just got to play.   Can't over‑think it.   I think at times we were over‑thinking things a little bit, and we are at our best when we are just in a flow, making reads, sharing the ball. 
We know we can do that.   We are excited to get back on the court. 

Q.   Are you stunned that you're in this position, an elimination game position?   And you talked about this being a 200‑minute series, but you have to make the 40 minutes work first; what happens in that 40 minutes in Game4? 
LINDSAY WHALEN:   Well, I think that, yeah, on Sunday, we have to come out, and we know we are facing an elimination game, and it's just we are going to have to come out and be aggressive, like they were tonight.   I think that's the biggest key and not to play on our heels, and just bring everything we have. 
Of course we have nothing to lose.   It's like you said, it's an elimination game.   We'll come out.   We'll be ready.   We'll look at the tape.   It will be hard to watch some of the plays, but you know, we'll learn from it, bounce back and get ready for Sunday. 

Q.   Can you just talk about the point at which Cheryl pulls the starters and you guys go to the bench?   It's hard to sit and watch, I would imagine, for a long stretch like that.
MAYA MOORE:   It's hard when you're not playing well and you're not helping your team.   So collectively as a starting group, we're going to come together and make sure that we respond better next time. 

Q.   We've seen Coach emotional, excited, enthused I guess we could say.   Tonight, she was very, very quiet.   Does that send you any kind of signal when she gets pretty terse and quiet? 
LINDSAY WHALEN:   I mean, I think‑‑ I mean, it's‑‑ I mean, we need to come out and be ready to start.   I think that that's the biggest thing is, you know, she was trying all kinds of different things, and we need to be held accountable and go out there and make plays and share the ball and play as a team. 
I think that was the biggest‑‑ one of the biggest things is that we need to share the ball and play as a team, and you know, like Maya said, when you're not helping the team, then you kind of start to force plays, and you know, I think we just need to, you know, get better and get ready for Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT