WNBA FINALS: DREAM v LYNX
October 7, 2011
Maya Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We will be joined by Maya Moore. 

 Q. Maya, did you think that Seimone was driven to be kind of the key player for you in this series? 
 MAYA MOORE: I think Seimone this year just -- she is so confident in her game and she is one of those players that can go out and play so well, play so hard on both ends, but make everybody else feel like they're playing well at the same time. She is one of those players that we all feed off of, we all want to see succeed and we all want to play hard for. So when she does something well we are so driven -- sorry, my teammate, Alexis is acting up in the background. She is one of those players that we want to play well for. 
 We're happy when she does well. 

 Q. Maya in the first half, fouls were 10-2, turnovers were 12-6, a lot of bad numbers for you guys. What happened in the second half that allowed you to win this thing? 
 MAYA MOORE: Goodness. I think we just slowed down a little bit but I think we stayed aggressive. On the defensive end we had to get stops. In the fourth, you know, we didn't let 'em get too much more than that so that's the story, that's who we are. I'm just glad that we were able to finish playing Lynx basketball by being a good defensive team and stepping up, hitting our free-throws at the end. Just staying together the whole game. 

 Q. Maya, by my calculations you had perhaps the best game of the series tonight. Were you saving it for your homecoming here in Atlanta? 
 MAYA MOORE: Say the last part again. 

 Q. Were you saving it for your homecoming to Atlanta? 
 MAYA MOORE: Not necessarily, I don't think I played too much -- I just tried to come in and help my team win. I made some mistakes, I made some good decisions, and some bad decisions but ultimately it's not about me, it's about everybody coming in and making something happen at their moment. So I had a couple of moments where I was able to help my team and, you know, another player stepped up and it was their moment and we all feed off of that. 
 I'm just excited that we had a good crowd behind us and it felt good to have somebody to point to and to smile at after we won. 
 THE MODERATOR: Maya, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT