WNBA FINALS: SPARKS VS LYNX
September 24, 2017
Maya Moore
Sylvia Fowles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Los Angeles Sparks - 85
Minnesota Lynx - 84
Q. Game 1 starts and it's 9-0, 12-0 and 28-2.  What kind of is going through your mind there and what kind of allowed them to get off to such an unbelievably strong start there and put you guys in the hole?
MAYA MOORE: Yeah, that wasn't by any means anything we wanted in that first quarter.  Just a combination of not scoring the ball and they were hot.  You know, it's such a crucial point in the series, and we definitely dug ourselves a hole.
But I'm happy with the way we responded.  We gave ourselves a chance to win the game but there's no question that the championship is isn't going to be won with that kind of stretch that we allowed in that first quarter.
Q. Can you take us through the sequence after you missed the one layup?  Are you thinking you'll get another shot at that point or what's going through your mind there?
MAYA MOORE: I was just -- I couldn't believe it didn't go in.  But that's the name of the game.  You have to bounce back and move on to the next play.
I have teammates and coaches that were, you know, verbally and actively reminding me of that in the moment, and I just snapped back and got locked into the next moment and we were able to get, you know, a defensive rebound push and another layup.  That's the game.  You have to be able to have a short-term memory and keep moving on to the next play.
Q. In those first couple minutes, it looked like it took about five minutes for you guys to even get the ball to Syl down low.  How much was it their defense and your offense kind of scrambling?
MAYA MOORE: You know, I have to go back and look at the video to see exactly what those five minutes looked like but it definitely was, like you said, it took us too long to adjust to them sitting two people in there with Syl.  But it's not anything we haven't seen before, and eventually we got our wheels going.  We're going to carry that momentum into Game 2.
Q. Sylvia, no rebounds as a team in the first quarter, and then what kind of changed as you got into the second and even into the third to get really kind of get back into this and make it a game when it looked like it was going to be a run away?
SYLVIA FOWLES: Just being aware of what's going on and knowing that this is the playoffs, and how we started out was unacceptable.  Just being focused and staying poised is what was the difference.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT