ATLANTIC 10 CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 15, 2013
Fran Dunphy
Khalif Wyatt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH DUNPHY:   This second year in a row, UMass did a good job against us to find a way to win the first‑round game for us.   It's a little bit of an advantage when you can play on Thursday, a little bit of an advantage on Friday, and then the advantage goes the other way if you get a little bit deeper.   But we were a little bit fresher early, but we didn't take advantage of‑‑ they turned it a lot in the first half.   We didn't take advantage, and then they made shots in that second half.   And we came up a little bit short.   Credit to UMass. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions of the players.

Q.   Khalif, can you talk about your shooting form tonight, what was going on?
KHALIF WYATT:   I had some good looks.   They kept coming to me, and kept on trusting me.   The ball just wasn't going in.   Took some tough shots.   Just trying to make plays and ball wouldn't go in today.

Q.   Rahlir, would you describe from your perspective the play in the last 20 seconds or so, where it looked like you might have forced a jump ball, and then the whistle blew and UMass got the ball back? 
RAHLIR HOLLIS‑JEFFERSON:   I just thought I had my hand on the ball and I felt that he caught a jump ball, but I guess‑‑ or he stepped out of bounds.   Nothing you can do about that.

Q.   Rahlir, your 30 minutes tonight, just talk about your overall performance. 
RAHLIR HOLLIS‑JEFFERSON:   Just was trying to make sure, trying to help my team get a win in the first round of the tournament, and help the other guys get a taste of wins in the A‑10 Tournament.

Q.   Khalif, how frustrated were you not only by Chaz guarding you, but seemed like UMass threw multiple defenders on you to throw you off your game.   How frustrating was that for you? 
KHALIF WYATT:   They did a good job defending me.   I still had some good looks.   Just couldn't put it in.   I mean, they're a good defensive team.   They're athletic.   They're strong.   They play hard.   So just give them a lot of credit for playing solid defense.

Q.   Khalif, last year you guys lost the A‑10 Tournament to UMass.   This year, you played them, and you guys beat them by one point.   Tonight, you're not on the winning end of things.   How much of a tough matchup is this UMass team when you play them? 
KHALIF WYATT:   They're a good team.   They play hard, they play together.   Chaz Williams is one of the best players in the conference, and he plays‑‑ he definitely leads this group and it was real tough down the stretch.   He made some plays to help his team get over the edge.

Q.   Khalif, I guess the main question everybody's asking is what will the next 48 hours be like for you guys?   Everybody thinks you're in the tournament, but is there a sense of nervousness right now? 
KHALIF WYATT:   Yeah, it's up in the air.   It's nothing we can control for the next two days.   Just going to go back to Philly, get some rest and wait for Sunday and hope that our name gets called.

Q.   Rahlir, you guys were down 40‑23, what was going on [inaudible]? 
RAHLIR HOLLIS‑JEFFERSON:   Well, they just got to the glass, the offensive glass.   We weren't able to get a body on them sometimes, and they just were able to hunt down the ball and rebound. 
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else for the players?   Thank you.
Questions for Coach Dunphy.

Q.   Fran, you guys tonight, the rebounding, how much do you think that was a factor in what happened?
COACH DUNPHY:   Well, the rebounding edge is 13‑9, the way I look at it.   They got four more offensive rebounds than we did.   They didn't miss as many shots as we did.   So that's going to be the discrepancy.   We didn't check them off.   They got 13 tough offensive rebounds.   We only could come up with nine of them.
We didn't do a great job rebounding.   Gave them a couple extra possessions.   But I think for us, we got‑‑ we turned them 19 times, which is pretty good for us, and we only turned it ten times.   So we got some extra possessions.   We had a few more shots attempted than they.
(The balance of this press conference has not yet been provided for transcription.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT