5-HOUR ENERGY PUERTO RICO TIP-OFF MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 1, 2011
Fran Dunphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   TIM SIMMONS: Coach Dunphy, thank you for joining us today. How is pre-season practice going so far? 
     COACH DUNPHY: We're doing okay. I don't think any coach is ever satisfied. I think we need to get better defensively. But I think we have the ability to score. Now we just have to work on those nuances defensively that will keep us where we want to be. 
     TIM SIMMONS: This is your second trip to the Puerto Rico Tip-Off. Is it going to be any different from the standpoint of planning or will you do the same you did in 2007? 
     COACH DUNPHY: Yeah, we're trying to get out of Philly on Tuesday night after school, practice, a little something to eat, get down there late at night on Tuesday, have a good practice on Wednesday. I know we play that first game on Thursday morning. 
     Looking forward to it. It's a great place. Really enjoy Puerto Rico. San Juan is a great city. I think ESPN does a great job with us. We're thrilled to be in it. 
     TIM SIMMONS: Any players standing out in practice? You had an NCAA team, an exciting second- and third-round match in Tucson. Has any player stood out in pre-season practice? 
     COACH DUNPHY: I think we're basically very similar to what we were last year without the aid of Lavoy Allen, who was a terrific defensive player for us. That's where we have to get better. Mike Eric is our biggest guy, 6'10" and a half. Power player inside. He's improving. I think he's going to score a lot more for us this year. We'll certainly need that. 
     The defensive end is where I'm most concerned about. I think everybody is working hard as a team to get better at that. 
     TIM SIMMONS: You open up with Western Michigan. Have you had a chance to scout them and look at them at all on film? 
     COACH DUNPHY: You know, we have not. We won't do any of that till we get past the University of Pennsylvania on November 14. As soon as that night is over, then we'll have some look at Western, but certainly not a whole lot. We have played them in the past so we know a little bit about them as a basketball program. But we won't start our work on Western Michigan until after the University of Pennsylvania game. 
     TIM SIMMONS: Any thoughts on Purdue or Iowa, which are on your side of the bracket? 
     COACH DUNPHY: Whoever we play on the next day, we're going to have a great, great test. Iona has come on strong in the last couple years, predicted to be at the top of the MAC Conference. Really think they're doing a great, great job these days. 
     Purdue is Purdue. We know what we will get. Hopefully Robbie Hummel will be in great health as well. You want to see these kids in the best health as possible. Know how difficult it will be with both teams, but looking to the challenge. 
     TIM SIMMONS: Coach, thank you very much. We appreciate you joining us today. We'll see you in a couple weeks in Puerto Rico. 
     COACH DUNPHY: Thank you very much. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT