BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 3, 2012
Ryan Moore
Aidan P. O'Brien
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Live in the interview room for the first time today.   We're greeted by the same winning connections as last year's Breeders' Cup Juvenile Turf.   Last year was Wrote and this year is George Vancouver. 
    On our left, rider Ryan Moore and trainer Aidan O'Brien.   Aidan, looked like your horse was wonderfully prepared today and it was only a matter of Ryan finding room for him. 
    AIDAN P. O'BRIEN:   I wish it was that easy.   Ryan gave him a super ride and he has been crying out for fast ground all year, his bad was the very same.   Henry's two‑year‑old career when he was a racer was soft. 
    He didn't do anything that we thought he would do.   This horse is the same and all the Henrys have been the same, we have been destroyed with soft ground all year in England.   Ryan road home in Deauville for over 6 if you are longs, and he was happy with him even though the ground was on the slow side, been working very well. 
    The two horses have been working well and Ryan always wanted to ride this horse and always believed in him, gave him a marvelous ride and we're delighted. 
    THE MODERATOR:   That was Breeders' Cup No. 7 for Aidan and No. 4 for you, Ryan, last year with Wrote, this year with George Vancouver.   The pace wasn't slow, it was very honest, but you were always surrounded by horses.   As you turned for home clearly you had a lot of horse under you.   Were you ever concerned that you were going to be able to find a seam to get your horse through there? 
    RYAN MOORE:   No, the whole way around we were able to save it up.   He traveled very easy and he had a small gap.   But that much horse he had plenty to go through there and he actually‑‑ I was in front a little bit too soon on him.   It was a little longer than people give the short straight credit for and when he got there he gave a look and hung out to the right, so I think there is a bit more in the locker room. 
    THE MODERATOR:   We should mention the same winning owners as Wrote, Mrs.John Magnier, Michael Tabor and Derrick Smith. 

Q.   Aidan, curiously when this horse broke his maiden you raced him at Dundalk in the all weather, so even in Julywith the Juvenile Race, the Breeders' Cup was that in your objectives at the time? 
    AIDAN P. O'BRIEN:   Yes, we always thought he was a very good horse.   His first two runs were on bad ground and we took him to the fast ground and he went there and won very easy. 
    We were always thinking it would be fine for him, the ground was always what we were hoping would make the difference and obviously Ryan had rode him with great confidence from Deauville and he thought that this track and this ground and race would suit him. 

Q.   Well done, Aidan and Ryan.   Aidan, you look like you have a Darby prospect on your hands in Kingsbarn.   Is this a potential 2,000 Guineas horse?   And how important is it for Coolmore and Ballydoyle to be represented strongly every year at this Breeders' Cup? 
    AIDAN P. O'BRIEN:   Breeders' Cup is the Olympics of racing, at the end of the year our best horses from all over the world are here.   It's somewhere everyone wants to be and it's fighting for the pedigree of all the horses.   Is he a Guineas horse, we always thought he could be.   Ground is vital to him and he showed that he's well within his compass for next year and obviously we're delighted. 

Q.   Ryan, you must have been conscious yesterday of all the European horses going hemmed in on the rails.   Was there never any stage or worry in your mind that you would get out? 
    RYAN MOORE:   The horse traveled well.   Yesterday the horses weren't steady in those races and when a horse is still traveling when they turn it's hard to find more room and there was a bit of a pace and when they're far enough out you can make a bit for room when you have a bit more pace in the race. 

Q.   Ryan, 14 horses, relatively inexperienced horses short run to the first turn.   Did you find it to be a relatively roughly run race at all? 
    RYAN MOORE:   No, I had a smooth race and that's what you need in these sort of races.   You need a bit of luck and things to work out for you and we had that today. 

Q.   Last two years you got hurt and possibly it cost you the British riding title and many of the big‑‑ this year got a bid from you.   How satisfying is it to win a race like this at the end of the year? 
    RYAN MOORE:   It's always frustrating when you have injuries but that's part of racing, you know, it would be nice to get through a year in one piece, but it's not the end of the year yet, there is still a bit of time, Japan, Hong Kong, we'll see. 

Q.   Aidan, can you enlighten us on the name? 
    AIDAN P. O'BRIEN:   I'm afraid I can't.   Took me a while to learn how to pronounce it, sorry.   Sue nicknames all the horses, obviously.   I don't know how Sue puts such good names on the good horses, obviously the lads are rating them from the time in the barn and we're rating them for the time for them to come in as yearlings.   And the ones I race end up being the bad ones and Sue always manages to get the right names on the right horses. 
    Sue looks at the horses, looks at the comments and makes up her own mind up, and she watches the work reports as it goes along.   That's how they're named really, but it's a difficult thing.   It's difficult to get the good names on the good horses which she seems to do every year. 

Q.   What made him a stand out from the crop that you had earlier in the year that you thought he was going to be a good horse? 
    AIDAN P. O'BRIEN:   I remember earlier in the year we had ten navigators, and early in the year, in April, six of them were working like world class horses, but the one thing they had was speed and usually when you have speed you have to have the go ahead as ground to use the speed and this summer has been so bad for us, I can't tell you. 
    So most of races have been slogging races more than speed races.   So to answer that, what he had is speed and it's what they seem to all have but ground is a must to go with that routine. 

Q.   Ryan, Aidan, second straight win in the Juvenile Turf, last year with Wrote, this year with George Vancouver.   Congratulations on your success.   Best of luck the rest of the day.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT