WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL A: TOKYO
March 7, 2009
Yeh Chih-Shien
Yueh-Ping Lin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Yesterday's game, I'm sure your players were a little depressed, and you mentioned you would like to have them refreshed in some way, and I see you had difficulties with that. What do you say about that?
 YEH CHIH-SHIEN: What I have been worried about ever since the start of the WBC is our hitting. And with today's game, we didn't hit very well. It has been continuing since the start. 
 The pitchers, I suppose this is our level, but our hitters were not doing very well, and I think that was the reason for our loss today. This was my concern, and we see that concern actually happening here. 

 Q. This is a very depressing result we see here. The youngsters on this team participating on this tournament, what are you planning to do for the future international tournaments? And I think it is important not to give up until the very end; what kind of mental approach or suggestions have you given them, and what do you think is necessary in the future?
 YEH CHIH-SHIEN: Our defeat today shows several things we need to face. For example, the level of Chinese play is something that we need to accept. China is going to be a big threat to us in the future. 
 The players on this roster, we have a very young team here. That being said, I think it is a good experience for them to play in a very high-pressure environment. I think that will make them grow to become better and bigger players. 
 To evaluate what has happened in this tournament, we have two games to play in the official tournament, and some of the players I expected to perform very well did not hit as well as I had imagined them to do.
 Hopefully they will grow and become great players and record holders in future international tournaments. 

 Q. You have two losses, and this is the end of your tournament. Was this something that you imagined?
 YEH CHIH-SHIEN: For the Tokyo round, I did not expect any kind of result in this tournament. The three teams that we are playing against, I knew that they would be very strong with those situations, and we needed to be prepared mentally and we needed to be prepared to lose in case that happened. 
 So during the game, I have been cheering the team, the players, and hopefully I will have got the team to perform better. We have prepared very well to play the three teams, especially China, and I'm sure they have prepared well, too, and I'm sure their first goal was to compete against us. 
 If we did not perform well enough, the result comes that we will lose, and we knew that if we didn't perform well, we would lose. We knew that. 

 Q. In the last Olympics, you lost against China two times. The first loss was probably due to luck on the China Team, however, you lose again this time. Two consecutive losses; what have you learned through this, and what does Chinese Taipei baseball need to change? Have you seen anything that needs to be changed?
 YEH CHIH-SHIEN: Our previous loss at the Olympics, that was probably we were unlucky. In the extended innings, we had the tiebreaker rule. 
 Looking back at that, the Chinese team was going beyond us, and we need to accept that, both in terms of defense and offense. 
 But the Chinese team, their preparation is very well prepared. Before the Olympics, they have been preparing to win. They have been expanding into international training, and maybe we need to do the same thing. International baseball, we need to be on top. 
 The Chinese Taipei Team, we need to make sure that we play against other international teams and be prepared. During international tournaments, we would like to have players attend more in this tournament. This is what the international level is, and having tournaments against those teams will let them have experience in that. More international games, or our loss will continue, and those are some are the areas that we need to review in the future. 

 Q. As the starter, you pitched four innings and gave up the game-winning run. How did you adjust your mentality on the mound, and also, you are going to have Asian international matches coming soon, so how do you prepare yourself?
 YUEH-PING LIN: Yes, the first inning, we gave up a run. That gave us more pressure. 
 I tried to do my best not to give up any runs, but the result is what we were not expecting. 

 Q. The Chinese Taipei tournament is over. You by yourself, how do you feel about the condition of the Chinese Taipei National Team? What is the problem? And soon, you are coming into international matches and you had a big loss against China. What was the problem, do you think?
 YUEH-PING LIN: Today's contest, it was quite a tough game. The impression of the Chinese Taipei is we lost again, last year in the Beijing Olympics, and in this tournament. 
 I as a player, I could not contribute any, so I regret this. The last time we had an Asian tournament, our opponent was Korea. We heard the Koreans were tough, but China is also a tough opponent. 

 Q. You said that you had a regret that you could not contribute any to win. When you play at home, do you have any comment for the fans? And also, a while ago, the manager mentioned that some professional ballclubs did not send any players to the international matches. How do you feel about that?
 YUEH-PING LIN: For the fans, I knew their expecting to win more. So I'm sure that we should take the blame from them. And we have some particular points that we have to adjust. 
 So we have to look at that we lost the international matches as a fact. 

 Q. The skipper of the Lions is saying that the Chinese Taipei is lacking pitching. Tell us about the pitchers, your pitchers. They are saying that they are lacking pitchers.
 YUEH-PING LIN: Well, the fact is, we played our best. But generally speaking, our players, they are young. Our players didn't have enough experience to cover these international matches. 
 So the lacking of experience is one of the facts that we had a loss. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT