AL DIVISION SERIES: ATHLETICS v YANKEES
October 12, 2001
Mike Mussina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You've been away from California for a long time playing for the Orioles and the Yankees, but coming back home to pitch a game as important as this, is that significant to you?

MIKE MUSSINA:  Well, my home is not California, so I played three years in college here and enjoyed it immensely.  It's somewhat like a home game, I would suppose, but being in the American League for 11 years now you get back here a couple of times a year, and I've had some decent games here.  So I'm not concerned about it being a road game.  I've pitched on the road for a long time.

Q.  Mike, you pitched a lot of playoff games before, I think the last one was elimination game in '97?

MIKE MUSSINA:  I believe so, yes.

Q.  Is this the biggest game you've pitched?

MIKE MUSSINA:  Whichever team you're playing for, if you're faced with an elimination game it's the biggest game you've pitched.  After tomorrow, yeah, it will probably be the biggest game I've pitched.  But we have to -- We have to go out there and play like it's one ballgame.  We can't concern ourselves with the fact that three hours after it starts it might be over.  We're going out to play like it's one ballgame, and play our best game and when it's over, hopefully we're still standing.

Q.  Joe made the point that there's no point in panicking, all we need is a three-game winning streak, and we've done that during the season.  Is that the attitude you're taking, that while it's difficult, it's a doable think?

MIKE MUSSINA:  Well, I think some of us aren't even looking at it as three games, I think we're looking at it as one game.  I can be as cliche as anybody wants me to be, but we can only concentrate on one game at a time.  We've got to worry about tomorrow and hope Sunday is still there when tomorrow is over, and that's the approach you have to take or you start pushing yourself or asking for things you can't deliver.  In a 24-hour period we're not going to win three games, we're only going to win one.

Q.  You've been very effective as a stopper in the postseason, what has made you so successful and how will you carry that into tomorrow?

MIKE MUSSINA:  I have no idea.  I'm going to pitch like I've been pitching all year, and try to take it as any other game.  If I walk out there thinking about all the ramifications if I don't pitch well, then I'm not going to pitch well.  Just go out there and pitch like it's a game in the middle of July and try to pitch the best game I possibly can.  There's nothing else I can ask from myself or expect from myself except the best I can possibly put out there, so hopefully that's what we'll get.

Q.  What are your observations of the Oakland line-up based on the first two games?

MIKE MUSSINA:  Well, I think we actually pitched pretty well.  I think they're obviously a talented club.  They put up a lot of runs.  They haven't lost a home game in a long time.  They're something like 40 games over 500 since the All-Star break.  Their line-up is tough, and I think we pitched pretty well up to this point.  We hope we can go out and play as well tomorrow, maybe throw up a few runs and take our chances.  But they have the ability to hammer out a lot of runs and we need to hold them down, like we have for basically most of the first two games.

Q.  Mike, when you signed with the Yankees, was this what you were always thinking about, just to be a part of the postseason run?

MIKE MUSSINA:  Well, I think when we all go to work in February in Florida and in Arizona, anybody on all 30 clubs, all they want to do is still be playing come October.  And I felt that New York had as good a chance if not better than anybody to still be playing in October.  So that was a big factor in why I went to New York.  And here we are.  So this is why I wanted to come to New York and get a chance to win a championship, and we're going to go out and see if we can still pull it off.

Q.  Mike, what's your sense of the mood of the team and does their experience factor into that?

MIKE MUSSINA:  I'm sure the team experience factors into it.  Everybody is looking for panic or something because they're defending champions, and I don't see any of that.  We play a ballgame and if we don't win it, then you go home, you get up the next day and you try to win the next game.  We know we have to win a few games in a row, here, but it's only one game every day.  So we have to go out and try to win one right now.

Q.  Mike, you signed a long-term deal with the Yankees, but this is obviously possibly the last time you're going to play with the group of players that won these three championships, is it in your mind that this might be the last chance to play with that group of players?

MIKE MUSSINA:  I don't think anybody has thought about that really.  Yeah, we know that there's some people that may not be here next year, but I don't think anybody has sat down and thought about it.  We think we're still going to be playing after the next couple of days, so we're going to take that attitude out there and try to play a good ballgame.

Q.  When a game starts in the twilight like tomorrow's will, is that anything that factors into the way you approach hitters early in the game?

MIKE MUSSINA:  No, I don't try to change anything.  It's going to be tough to see on some parts of the field.  There's no question about that.  It may be tough to hit.  It's going to certainly be tough in the outfield.  But you just keep pitching the way I've been pitching.  I'm not going to try to change the game plan because the game is at 4:30 local time instead of at night.

Q.  You've obviously pitched in a lot of big games before, but I'm wondering if the uniform you're wearing now, the history that's behind it and the fact that there really is sort of a dynasty at stake here, does that add any weight to it?

MIKE MUSSINA:  No, I don't think so.  I think everybody that puts on this uniform feels like we're representing an organization that's done a lot in the past, but we're still trying to prove something today.  So if I sit there and think about what everybody has accomplished before us, then you're not really thinking about baseball, and I'm not the type of person to do that.  We're trying to win this one game, and after that we'll try to win one more game and so on.  So I'm not sitting back thinking about what Whitey would do in this circumstance.  I'm thinking about what I'm going to do.

Q.  Talk about putting out of your mind the ramifications of if you don't pitch well.  Is that hard to do with the stakes of tomorrow night's game?

MIKE MUSSINA:  Well, it was asked before, and I have been in elimination games before, and I think the last six weeks or so I've thrown the ball pretty well.  So I'm not worrying about what's going to happen if it doesn't work out, because I feel pretty good about the way I've been throwing the ball lately.  And I think I'm going to be able to take that back out there tomorrow.  So I don't see why I wouldn't be able to and I'm hoping it turns out the way the last six weeks of my season has turned out. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT