AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS v YANKEES
October 4, 2004
Mike Mussina
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Given the state of the starting rotation right now with a couple of question marks, does that put any more urgency on you to kind of go out tomorrow night and shut them down, do you think? 
 
MIKE MUSSINA:   Well, I think we've all been saying this all year; that we go out there every night trying to shut them down, and when we get one, then we try to hold them at one.  This is the post-season, and everybody is going to be experienced and expecting to go out there and pitch well.  We are all expecting to out there and play well.  I know everybody has questions, but we just  -- they have had questions all year and we've won 101 games, so I don't know what else we're supposed to do. Go out there and try to win 11 games now. 
 
Q.  It's a role you really haven't been in since Baltimore but now you're going into the post-season as the No.  1 guy on the team and you have not had that in the last few years; how do you feel about that? 
 
MIKE MUSSINA:   In what respect do you mean that?  I pitched the first game last year in both the first two rounds.  
 
Q.  The fact that you're in the spotlight as opposed to Roger or Andy? 
 
MIKE MUSSINA:   I think I'm still just one of the guys that gets to pitch.  I can't do any more than the game I play in, and that's it.  I mean, if I try to tell myself now that I'm the one guy that everybody else is looking to then I'm not going to perform as well.  I'm just going to go out there and pitch as if I'm doing the job I've always been doing. 
 
Q.  Given the way this year did go for you, what does it mean for you to be starting Game 1? 
 
MIKE MUSSINA:   I'm just glad I'm back in there doing what I was doing.  It was an interesting year and not one that I expected and here I am the first week of October and we're still playing and I'm going to get to pitch in the post-season.  So in that respect, it's what we all look forward to back in February and March, and just the road getting here wasn't the road that I assumed I was going to take, but the team took the right one and so here we are. 
 
Q.  How good do you feel about yourself right now?  How are you shaping up for this post-season? 
 
MIKE MUSSINA:   I feel fine.  I haven't thought about my arm in five or six starts.  I don't think about that stuff anymore.  It's just about pitching.  It's just about the right pitch and the right location and go and that's it.  That's all it's been.  I don't have any concerns about that kind of stuff; I feel good.  
 
Q.  Given the injuries the whole team has gone through this year, the turnover, are you surprised that you've gotten to this point or does it say something about the people that are here that you did?
 
MIKE MUSSINA:   I don't think we are a surprise.  I think we expected to play well and I think everybody expected us to play well.  We won games this year in different ways than we have won games in the past. The past three years I've been here, we were not a team that would be down four or five runs and two innings later we were only down a run.  That's just wasn't the way it was.  I think we set some kind of record for come-from-behind wins and all that stuff.  It's just a different style of team this year.  You know, the pitching hasn't been as healthy.  The same names aren't running out there all the time.  But the guys we have that are going out there are just as capable of pitching as anybody else we've sent out there, so I expect us to play well. 
 
Q.  This is a franchise perhaps more than any that judges the athletes by how they perform in October.  That said, do you think what you did in Game  7 against Boston might have changed the perception amongst some Yankees fans against you? 
 
MIKE MUSSINA:   That I'm a relief pitcher now?  (Laughter.) You like that one, huh?  No, I don't know.  I guess.  I think I pitched a game in Oakland two or three years ago, down 2-0, going 2-0 and we won 1-0 and that was a pretty good game, too.  I'm just out there trying to pitch. They asked me to get a couple of outs, I said sure.  I didn't know there was going to be people at first and third with nobody out, and down 4-0 to Pedro.  Just the circumstances and the way that game played out and the way that series played out was just unique.  That was last year and we've got to play now.  I'm just going to go out there and try to pitch. 
 
Q.  You mentioned a different style of team this year.  Over the years that you've been here, the team has turned over quite a bit, there are only a handful of guys left, is the personality still the same as when you got here, or are there certain constants, that even though the people change, that still make this club what it is?
 
MIKE MUSSINA:   I think the general personality of the team is pretty similar.  You know, I think that all feeds off of Joe.  Joe and Mel and Brian Cashman and guys that have been here through this whole thing, we still approach it the same way.  We work counts, we get a pitch we can hit.  This year we're just hitting more home runs than we have in a while, but I think our general approach and our general character is pretty much the same.  You know, if things were wavering, I don't think we would have been able to win 101 games, if things are really changing too drastically.  And even with the turnover, it's pretty impressive that we can still go out there and win 100 ball games. 
 
Q.  From your vantage point, as a veteran pitcher watching relatively young pitchers, what are the things that impress you most about Santana? 
 
MIKE MUSSINA:   I think he's really learned a lot about pitching in a very short amount of time.  I think he knows he has good stuff.  When you can throw 95 miles an hour and throw a 72-mile-an-hour changeup off of that and have some idea of where the ball is going, you're going to have pretty good success. He's strong, he's smart, he knows what he wants to do.  You know, he's hot.  I mean, he knows, when you get rolling, just want to keep rolling and he feels good about himself, and success breeds confidence.  And he's got a lot of confidence right now, and his team and everybody else has confidence in him. 
 
Q.  Looking especially to this year in the context of everything that's happened, do you get the feeling that sometimes the fan base and coming from the owner, looks at everything through a prism where they start at 162-0 and every two-, three-game losing streak becomes blown out of proportion? 
 
MIKE MUSSINA:   I think when you play 162 games in six months, you're going to have things like that.  You're going to have  -- you're going to win five and six in a row, you're going to loses two or three in a row. I don't know if it gets blown out of proportion.  I think we know when we're not playing well.  I think we recognize it.  I think  -- I think sometimes, you know, this is New York and this is the Yankees and we've been successful here for nine or ten years in a row, and it's just all part of it.  So we just kind of let it happen and keep going out there and playing ball.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT