MANULIFE LPGA CLASSIC
September 4, 2016
Tom Kinsman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CORY JANZEN: On behalf of the Ontario Golf Superintendents Association, it gives me great pleasure to recognize TOM KINSMAN today; as part of our Superintendent recognition program and our province wide campaign to, “Thank a Golf Course Superintendent”.   
Achieving success on the golf course requires a great many skills, as does preparing that course for a professional tournament like this one; and by all accounts Tom has done a wonderful job this week.  Indeed, our 900 members across the province strive to provide optimum playing conditions for all golfers on every day of the golf season.   
The OGSA is very proud of the contributions made by our Superintendents to the game, and we wish to acknowledge the efforts of this year's host Superintendent of the Manulife LPGA Classic, Mr. Tom Kinsman.   
TOM KINSMAN: Keeping things in top condition leading up to the event and then conversely, having to deal with almost monsoon rainfalls before the event, having to shut the golf course down to get it back into shape.  So we had both extremes this year, so that was a major challenge for sure.   
 Q.  Tom, how big of a staff do you have getting the course ready for the tournament?  
TOM KINSMAN: That's a great question.  I think we did very well.  I did it with about 30 people, and that's including volunteers.  So there was 30 of us working very, very hard, sometimes around the clock.  So I had a very devoted staff, and I can't say enough about them.  They were amazing, and they made it all possible.  So it was a very devoted staff that made this event happen.   
 Q.  I understand you were starting as early as 3 am, like you had floodlights out there?  
TOM KINSMAN: Yeah.  We were out in the dark.  So we start around 4 am to get ready for our early tee times.  Yeah.  So we had four industrial lights that would light up our green surrounds so we could cut greens and mow greens in the morning.  So it was a real challenge holding an event this time of year with the light levels being so low, and then in the evening hours as well, the lights had to come out as well because we ran out of daylight, because there's so many players in the event that by the time they got off the course and we could get on there, we didn't have much time.  So yeah, it was interesting.  It was interesting running an event this time of year, for sure.   
 Q.  The greens are bent.  There's a lot of poa that seems to be popping up late in the day.  What's your best guess on the greens speed when we finish at 4 or 5:00?  Would you say 10-ish, 11, 10 and a half?  
TOM KINSMAN: Yeah.  I don't like to comment on greens speed.  I think they hold true for the majority of the day.  They're I'd like to say true to speed.   
 Q.  Do you double mow and roll them every single morning?  
TOM KINSMAN: Yes.  I cut and roll every morning.   
 Q.  They look great.  Looks beautiful.  You've done a great job.  
TOM KINSMAN: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT