NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 8, 2017
Kyle Korver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bron was in there a minute ago saying he would do the same thing all over again.  Is it true that after a game like that, that he's still getting criticized for not doing more?  
KYLE KORVER: Yeah, I think that's something that being around him on his side and hearing all the criticism that he takes all year long, he handles it so well.  He really does.  He handles it with grace.  He just knows that that's part of the job.   
So I'm not surprised.  I mean, he's the best player in the world, he has been for a bunch of years, I think, and I think he knows that about himself and he's able to handle those things and let them slide off his back a little easier.  It's part of his job, it's part of him being who he is.  He has to be able to deal with it.   
 Q.  Do you guys at least feel better about the way you played?  
KYLE KORVER: Yeah, I think we have been playing better, I think that besides the first quarter last night, I thought we played a pretty good game last night.  The last couple minutes obviously we didn't score, but it does feel like we have gotten better.   
But obviously it's not good enough.  So, like I said, watching the film, there's so many things that we can do so much better, just mental mistakes and not getting back on defense and missed some coverages, so we have another level to go to.  And I think that's what we can hold on to, and that gives us confidence for Game 4.   
 Q.  Does that make it a little bit easier with the quick turnaround?  
KYLE KORVER: Totally.  Totally.  Very, very glad that this is just the one game, where there's only one day in between.  Obviously I don't think anyone slept last night.  Tough night to sleep.  We come here, we watch the film, we see what we need to do to get better and get ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Eight the last nine teams that have gone 3-0 in The Finals have been swept.  Will it be different for you guys?  
KYLE KORVER: I don't think we're talking about 16-0.  I don't think anybody on our team cares about that.  We just want to win a game.  We want to win a championship.  So if that's the thought process, you just want to win one game and get beat in Game 5, that doesn't make any sense.   
So the 16-0 thing, I don't think any of us have given any thought to that.  We just got to get one first.  We got to win one and then win four in a row.   
 Q.  Couldn't sleep last night.  Were you replaying that shot?  
KYLE KORVER: Totally.  We all had plays that we went back, and certainly a shot I had in the corner was one that I thought it was in, it left my hand, it felt good.   
 Q.  Is it fair to say they made the trade for you to hit that shot in this spot?  
KYLE KORVER: Sure, okay.   
 Q.  Do you watch tape that night?  I mean, like if it's hard to sleep, do you try to not think about -- I mean, what do you do at that moment?  
KYLE KORVER: Yeah, I had some food and took a little sleeping pill, hoping that would help, and just read a book, just to try to stay away from the TV.  You don't want more thoughts going on, more words in your head.   
 Q.  What book?  What food?  
KYLE KORVER: I had some soup.   
 Q.  What kind of soup and --  
KYLE KORVER: Chicken tortilla soup. And I was reading a book on Kobe [Bryant], Showboat.   
 Q.  Obviously Kevin Durant had a pretty good resume, even before he got here. Do you think there is anything new you guys are seeing in him in terms of the comfort level he has with them, the way he plays, the way he's taken a leap there?  What do you see?  
KYLE KORVER: I think he's just been a really great fit for this team.  I think this is, you know, putting him into a motion offense with a bunch of other great offensive players, just makes him that much tougher to guard.  You can't just load up and focus on him because there's so many other weapons around him, and that's -- they're all great players on their own.   
Bringing them all together, it makes them hard to guard because you can't just focus on one guy.  So I think that's definitely a benefit, obviously, to him, and he's taking advantage of it.   
 Q.  Is being down 3-0 shocking to you guys?  Did you expect this -- you expected to win, right?  
KYLE KORVER: Yeah, we expected to win, definitely didn't expect this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT