NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 13, 2015
Kyle Korver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  You are now enjoying one of the best shooting seasons ever, if not the best shooting season ever, for an NBA player.  How does that feel?  KYLE KORVER: It feels good.  The season is not done.  Hopefully when it's done we can talk more about that.  But I feel like I'm playing -- I'm on a great team and a great system.  I'm getting some good looks and trying to knock them down.   Q.  We are from Danish TV.  Coach Budenholzer played in Denmark.  So we have a connection to him.  Put a few words on him.  KYLE KORVER: Yeah, a few words on Coach Bud.  He's really great.  He's really fun to play for.  He has everyone's respect, both as a person and as a basketball coach.  He really runs -- he does a good job with us.  We're always well organized.  He has us playing hard every night.  He's a really great coach.   Q.  It looks like you have fun on the court.  Does it feel a lot of fun to be on this team right now the way you play, this style of play?  KYLE KORVER: It's a lot of fun.  The guys play hard every night.  Play unselfishly, pass the ball.  We all feel like we matter.  And we're not watching someone else dominate the ball.  It feels like every single time that you get on the court -- you might not shoot the ball but you're going to pass, you're going to set the screens, you're going to do something that's going to affect the game.  It's a lot of fun.   Q.  How does that happen at this stage in your career?  KYLE KORVER: It's cool.  All-Star has never been on my radar.  It's never been a goal.  It's never been something that I really like -- I love playing basketball.  I love working at it.  I think a lot of things have come together for me in the last couple of years.  This is the healthiest I've felt in a long time.  I'm on a great team and system.  I feel like I fit in really well.  We're winning a lot of games.  At this point in my career, I've been on some teams that didn't win as many games.  To be on a team where everybody is competing hard every night.  Everyone is a pro every day and just doing all their work.  It's just a lot of fun.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT