NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 20, 2011
Kyle Korver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   KYLE KORVER: They haven't been falling. Got to get better. 

 Q. Is a shooter's mentality go up and shoot again, no matter what happens the last game? 
 KYLE KORVER: Yes, you have to think next shot, you have to think next game. The series is still very young. (Indiscernible).

 Q. Did you sense a little more pressure on their defense? They were literally chasing you. They obviously respect you, two guys on you, three guys, as soon as you touch the ball. 
 KYLE KORVER: Yeah. I'm not going to get wide open in the series. That's the playoffs. Very, very rarely. When you do get one, you're almost like, whoa, and then you miss it. That's just the way it goes. 
 I've played in the playoffs before. I have had bad games in the playoffs, I've had good games in the playoffs. It's just, you want every game to be a good one. You want to make every shot. It's easy to get down on yourself. You have to forget about it and move on to the next one. 

 Q. One of the most amazing stats about you guys is you haven't lost two games in a row in over three months. What's the mentality in the locker room, once you lose a game, it ain't going to happen again the second time? 
 KYLE KORVER: Yeah. I think we're a real tough-minded group. We're a real scrappy group. We play that way. We have a coach that finds the mistakes, let's us know. And we have to be very receptive to what he has to say. So I think we'll probably play better in Game 3. 

 Q. How welcome is the day off? 
 KYLE KORVER: Beautiful. I played golf. 

 Q. Nice. 
 KYLE KORVER: It was nice. 

 Q. How did you shoot? 
 KYLE KORVER: Not well. I was out in the sunshine. You get a little break. It's strange how these games are set up. Sunday, Wednesday, Sunday. There's a lot of time in between. After a tough game, it's real easy -- you want to be in the gym and be able to take care of all that stuff. It was nice to get away for a day and be in the sun. 

 Q. Kyle, does it make it tough for you -- Wade and LeBron are so athletic, they can probably close down on shooters better than --
 KYLE KORVER: Yeah, you don't ever know if you're all the way open. They could be seven, eight feet away and still contest your shot or block it. It does make it difficult. But that's okay. It's fun. They're a really athletic team. 

 Q. How much are you looking forward to getting down to Miami? 
 KYLE KORVER: I'm looking forward to Sunday night. I could care less about Miami right now, the city. 

 Q. The weather? 
 KYLE KORVER: It's been nice here a couple of days in a row. It's not Miami. No one is thinking about suntans right now. We're trying to win Game 3. 

 Q. I'm sure you've been asked this, but what's the thought about the shots not falling for you? 
 KYLE KORVER: It's very frustrating. We want to make shots. The easy thing to do is press harder and get really mad and frustrated. I thought I had some good looks the other night. The ball was in and out. The ball was off the back of the rim. 
 Coaches have a saying, "It's a good miss." As a shooter you hate that saying if something is a miss. You know, just to keep on trying to be confident. The series is young. There's a long ways to go. There's going to be a lot more shots to be taken. (Indiscernible) The wrong shots that went in and out or you missed earlier, it's just going to hurt you later on. 

 Q. What do you say about a three-game break between games. Do you like it? Dislike it? 
 KYLE KORVER: I don't like it. Especially after you lose. You want to go out and play the next day. That's one of the good things -- I mean back-to-back stinks in the NBA. If you lose in the first one, you know, you don't got to talk about missing shots for three days in between games. You get to go out there and play again and make some shots. And it's a different line of questioning. 
 It's a lot of days in between games. The other series, play two games before you get to play again is a bit frustrating. But we don't make the rules. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT