WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 8, 2006
Jeff Francis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Jeff, talk about the quick turnaround, and how much sleep you got last night, the team got last night, and coming in from what turned out to be a difficult game right into this one. 
 JEFF FRANCIS:  Well, I don't think there's anybody on the team whose not used to playing day games after a night game.  Something that we deal with all the time at.  Least once a week anyway.  So I don't think it will be a problem for anybody on the field anyway.  So I think the game will be played like it should be.  
 Q.  Jeff, clearly the game against Mexico tomorrow after winning last night is the important game for Canada in this series do.  You feel any additional pressure because of that? 
 JEFF FRANCIS:  Well, I think we're thinking about this game right now.  I think if we can come out and play the way we can in this game and execute properly and, you know, come out with a victory, I think it takes the pressure off of tomorrow. 
 So, I think we're thinking about today and, you know, if it doesn't work out today, then we'll think about tomorrow when it comes.  So I don't think there will be any additional pressure.  I think we've taken it one game at that time the whole tournament. 
 So, you know, I feel good that the team has, you know, put it in me to start this game thinking it could be the most pivotal game.  
 Q.  Jeff, given how tight the game was last night and winning it in the 9th, just talk about what that experience was like for you guys and how you guys were -- you guys relieved?  What was it like in the clubhouse afterwards? 
 JEFF FRANCIS:  It was definitely a relief because, you know, I think that's definitely a game we expected to come out and really not have a problem like that.  You know, give them credit though.  They got the big hits when they needed it and, you know, I think they surprised some people the way they could play last night. 
 They're a good squad, but, you know, I think that the fact we got the win, I think that proves the way our team is.  Even when we're down in the 9th, we're not going to give in to anybody.  The way we came out swinging even in the 9th inning, scoring that run, three pitches or whatever it took to do, shows what kind of battlers this team is made of.  
 Q.  Jeff, in some convoluted way, does South Africa's performance against you guys last night give you guys additional hope against a Team USA that supposed to dominate? 
 JEFF FRANCIS:  I don't know if it gives additional hope, but I think it proves to everybody who watches the games that anything can happen.  I don't think South Africa is that much of an underdog that people made it out to be.  
 But it's true.  In a short tournament like this that you're only playing one game, you're not playing 162 over six months.  So, you know, I think that anybody can come out and take it to somebody.  Somebody can have a bad day or a great day, and I think that's what makes a short tournament like this so interesting.  
 Q.  Could you just you've -- touched on this -- but the people outside the tournament that aren't on your team obviously see the game against Mexico as -- for a second place the biggest one, and to get the ball in that game when the pitching rotation was announced, just the trust that your teammates have in you and your coaches.  Could you just talk a little bit to that? 
 JEFF FRANCIS:  I like it.  I mean, I don't know if I've been called a big game pitcher you, know.  Right now, it's not a big game yet.  Today's the biggest game, but I think the fact that the, you know, the players, coaches put that, you know, I wouldn't say responsibility or anything but, you know, to put that confidence in me to start a game like that I think builds my confidence and makes me feel good going out. 
 The guys behind me expect me to go out there and doing the things that we need to to win.  In this tournament with pitch limits and things like that, there is a lot more that comes into it than just starting pitching.  
 Q.  Jeff, Ernie was able to extend Eric a bit through four innings yesterday.  Where are you at?  How many innings do you think you could go?  And do you have a pitch count in mind for tomorrow? 
 JEFF FRANCIS:  I'm ready to go for the full 65.  I think, you know, knowing months in advance this tournament was going to happen, I think I took the necessary steps to prepare to be able to throw that amount this early in March. 
 Normally, pitchers don't, but I think this year, we took the -- we made the preparations we needed to do to be able to do that, and I'll be ready.  
 Q.  Jeff, given that it's a pitch count, is there anything that you're going to do in your approach to try and minimize or to be more effective with your pitch count?  Are you going to throw more sinking fast balls, that sort of thing just to try and get the ball in play and that sort of thing? 
 JEFF FRANCIS:  I won't change anything from what I normally do.  I think if I did that, I would be getting away from what has gotten me to this point.  
 So, you know, whether hitters take a different approach, we'll see, but I'll be doing the same things that I've done that have helped me get to here.  


 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT