WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: ROUND ONE
March 9, 2006
Jeff Francis
Ernie Whitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Two questions one in the follow up.  Ernie, first, what did you see tonight with Francis?  Clearly he had problems from the second batter on?  Could you talk a bit about what was happening with him tonight?   
 MANAGER ERNIE WHITT:  He didn't have his good stuff tonight.  Two outs and hit the guy, and all of a sudden the flood gates open.  It was just up in the zone.  He did not have good fastball or good break on his breaking ball, so, you know, it happens.   
  Q.  Final question for me.  Can you talk about the scenario now?  You need South Africa to beat Team USA and to beat Roger Clemens for Canada to advance to the second round?   
 MANAGER ERNIE WHITT:  Again, we had our chances today.  I mean, we had our face in our own hands.  So, I mean, we didn't come through with it and, you know, we'll rely on South Africa.  If they can beat Roger, then we tip our hat to them.   
  Q.  Ernie, can you describe the ebb and flow of emotions over the past 24, 36 hours with yesterday's game -- yesterday's win and what took place today?   
 MANAGER ERNIE WHITT:  Well, again, you know, we are disappointed.  The outcome of tonight's game -- we are excited about yesterday, but yesterday's game, that was a bonus win for us.  There's no question the guys played well.   
 And as far as today's game, we had everything set up the way we wanted to.  They just came out and swung the bats well and we ended up with four hits.  I think we got a pretty good offensive team, and we just didn't hit the ball tonight.   
  Q.  Ernie, given the way the games have gone, has it been tough for the team to stay on an even keel?  It seems like all three games have had rollercoasters.  High low, high low.    
 MANAGER ERNIE WHITT:  I think the guys were prepared.  I don't think that we were on a rollercoaster whatsoever.  The first two games were, you know, I guess emotional , you know, we had to battle hard to beat South Africa.  Yesterday's game we got off to a great start and USA made a good come back but, you know, we were prepared for Mexico.  They came out swing can the battle and we didn't.  You tip your hat to Mexico they did a nice job and we just lost a game?   
  Q.  Ernie, could you take about what Loaiza was doing early in the game that was keeping you guys off balance a bit?   
 MANAGER ERNIE WHITT:  It was a typical game for him.  He uses the ball in and out.  Changes speeds.  Veteran-type pitcher that knows how to pitch.  He kept us off stride tonight.   
  Q.  Ernie, what's the feeling in your gut right now?   
 MANAGER ERNIE WHITT:  It's not a good one.  I mean, anytime you can control your fate and let it get away from you, you know, it's disappointing.  But, again, it's not like we beat ourselves.  We got beat.  Let's face it.  You have to give credit to Mexico.  They came out and they beat us, that's all there is to it.  It was a well-pitched game by Loaiza, and the best of the bullpen.  Again, with the offensive team we had, we only had four hits.  Good pitching stops good hitting, so you tip your hat to Mexico.   
 Anything can happen, you know.  I don't know how you want me to answer that.  I mean, you look at the odds.  You know, the odds are probably even worse than what they were with us yesterday beating them, but anything can happen.  That's why you play the game.  We'll sit and we'll wait and see.  Don't short change South Africa, because they're gutsy.  They might be young enough and not even know who they're facing.  So it would be nice to give them a scare anyways.    
  
  Q.  Jeff, first of all, thanks for coming here.  Can you tell us a little bit about your emotion on the mound as you saw each hit coming?  When did you realize what was really happening out there?   
 JEFF FRANCIS:  Well, it really did happen quick.  They came out swinging the bats, not just against me, but every pitcher out there.  They didn't get deep into a lot of counts.  I didn't take advantage of making good pitches.  I left pitches up, and good hitters are going to hit pitches like that.   
  Q.  Jeff, you've had -- you were very pleased with your work leading up to this tournament throughout with the Rockies before you came here, but was tonight -- you were known for precise location.  Did you sense something?  Was adrenaline an issue at all dealing with location issues?  After you hit Vinny, it seemed like you had trouble locating from that point on.   
 JEFF FRANCIS:  Nothing in particular.  I did my regular preparation.  I did everything I could do to prepare and, you know, Vinny got away and early in the count.  They were swinging and we were trying to throw strikes and leaving too much over the plate for those balls to hit.  So they took advantage of some bad pitches, that's for sure.   
  Q.  Jeff, you had talked about how much it meant for you to be the ace of this staff, to be put in this position in what was such an important game.  How disappointed are you in how it turned out?   
 JEFF FRANCIS:  You know, it's a very disappointing feeling, you know.  Your team puts a lot of confidence in me to start a game like that.  I'm sure the guys in the clubhouse feel, you know, as disappointed as I do.    
 But, you know, with the feelings we had coming into the game, we were confident, and I don't think that -- I don't think we're going to walk away with our heads down.  I think we're proud of what's happened.    
 And, you know, that's just the mentality we take.  We're not going to take a beating and lay down.  We look forward to the next time to face these guys.   
  Q.  For Manager Whitt.  What are the chances for Mexico to win this tournament?  What do you think about the Mexican team winning?   
 MANAGER ERNIE WHITT:  Oh, to win the tournament?   
  Q.  Yeah.    
 MANAGER ERNIE WHITT:  They're a good ball club.  If they swing the bats or swing the bats like they did tonight, anything can happen.  They got a good veteran crew of ballplayers over there, you know.  So that's why you play the game.  You never know who's going to win.   
  Q.  Jeff, you face this situation now where you have to have South Africa to win.  I assume you're going to become their biggest fan right now.  Can you talk about particularly do you think they have any chance against Clemens?   
 JEFF FRANCIS:  Well, they have a chance.  Everybody has a chance.  Whether we're counting on it, I don't know if you could say, but we'll definitely be watching the game.  And, you know, like Ernie said, hopefully they can surprise some people.   
  
  Q.  Jeff, from your perspective as a player, what was it like these three games, each one very different, each one  seemingly a lot of emotions and tight ballgames, each with its own drama?   
 JEFF FRANCIS:  It was awesome, especially that atmosphere out there tonight.  It was something that you don't experience even playing in the major leagues.  It was something special.  And, you know, it's something that I know every player probably on that team is looking forward to getting the opportunity if they get a chance to do it again.  This tournament is something that we're proud to wear the red and white of Canada.  We definitely look forward to doing it again.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT