BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 27, 2001
David Flores
Eoin Harty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID FLORES:  Yes, definitely.  We got a great trip.  Seems like being outside you lose any ground turns very wide, try to give her confidence and myself, make a run when it was time to do it.  She respond really nice. 

EOIN HARTY:  Shocked that she ran so well, but really not surprised.  She trained exceedingly well since she's been to New York.  She ran very well in Saratoga.  Gary Stevens rode her for me at Santa Anita, said she didn't handle the track well that day.  Said she'd be better suited to the tracks back east.  I took that with a pinch of salt.  I took her back ten days ago.  I gave her a workout.  Since that day she's gotten better and better.  I had planned on running her in the pedestrian tomorrow.  She trained so well.  I said here.  

Q.  Is the wind a factor out there today on the racetrack?  

DAVID FLORES:  When you enter in the backside you could feel a little wind.  It's kind of slowing down.  I hear earlier it was a little stronger.  When you're riding back there you can feel it just not bad.  It's not bad at all.  It's kind of getting better.  

Q.  How gratifying is it?  You purposely pointed for this race.  You skipped the Oak Leaf.  You felt she needed the extra time.  How gratifying is it to see this plan come out and have you seen her blossom. 

EOIN HARTY:  It's very gratifying.  Very seldom plans work out.  You know, if I run her back especially off that race in Del Mar would have blown all chances.  I felt she needed the time to settle her down mentally more than anything else.  I figured if I come back three weeks for the race in Del Mar and run her at the Santa Anita I would defeat the purpose of the whole plan.  


Q.  You're saying that Godolphin is more focused.  Your plan is better with your two year olds.  Would you think this is the first of many wins you're going to have with these two year olds in the winner circles?  

EOIN HARTY:  I hope it's the first of many.  Only time will tell.  

Q.  So much emphasis was put on the development of the two year old colts.  Here you jump up and win with the fillies.  The mind set was bringing the fillies over and did you think you would get the result, that you'd get the result this fast?

EOIN HARTY:  There's a lot of opportunities for fillies.  It would be pretty boring just training colts.  What can I say about that?  The emphasis is definitely on colts because they want to win the Kentucky Derby.  There's also Kentucky Oaks as well.  This is a homebred filly.  She wasn't bought.  Sheikh Mohammed decided to get her and thank God he did.  

Q.  I know you've got some good colts, do you have any thoughts about looking ahead to the spring and would you consider running her if colts came to play?  

EOIN HARTY:  It's too early to say.  Basically I have no input on that decision anyway.  

EOIN HARTY:  I think anybody who has seen the results of Godolphin the last ten years would know that they know what they're doing.  I think it's short sighted.  

Q.  With your win and the win of the first race it was the assistant trainer's, two of the most successful men in the Breeders' Cup won the first two.  He talked a little bit about what type of train methods which have been passed.  

EOIN HARTY:  I learned an awful lot from Bob.  I also worked for very good horseman in the  past, John Russell.  Trained horses here for a long time.  Picked up a little from both of them.  I must say working with Bob, he taught me what to do with a lot of good horses, how to prep them for big races, and have them ready on a big day.  I'd like to say a lot of my success I owe to what I picked up from Bob.  


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT