KIA CLASSIC
March 30, 2019
Mi Jung Hur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Seven birdies in a row.  
MI JUNG HUR: Yeah, I got a goose bump.  So excited playing the back nine.  Had great shot and great putt and made seven birdies in a row.  I had another chance on 18 but I missed it.   
But I still like today's round.   
 Q.  Best round of your career; best round in the history of the Kia Classic.  What does that mean to you?  
MI JUNG HUR: I didn't know that it's best round for the Kia Classic, but I had another 62 back to 2016, so I was trying to get one more birdie on 18 and I got a pressure and I missed it.   
I still satisfied.   
 Q.  Certainly great playing.  Last year you had a little bit of a downstreak in your play.  Come back to the Founders Cup; tied for 13th; you're playing fantastically now.  What changed in your game from last year to this year?  
MI JUNG HUR: Last year I had a struggle with my long game and pretty much everything, I struggle with everything and had a bad year.  Trying to get another good year, so worked hard with my swing coach, C.J., he's in Dallas, and also my dad, and it pay me off this week and last week.   
 Q.  What did C.J. have you focus on?  
MI JUNG HUR: More like swing plan, more clear my swing plan, because my plan was little out.  Little cut shot and -- right now I think it's everything fine with my swing.   
I just got confidence and just going to keep playing like this every week.   
 Q.  What was it like in the middle of making all seven of those birdies, during those birdies?  
MI JUNG HUR: Actually, I started to counting my birdies after three birdies on back nine, and then hit a good shot every second shot and then every putt was like three, four yards.  Then tried to make all those putts and it worked really good.   
 Q.  Last year you said that you were a little shaky in your game, but you did have a happy moment where you got married and got to enjoy life.  How have you been balancing your life?  
MI JUNG HUR: After I got married, I mean, you know you have to prepare the marriage and there is no time to practice enough.  I think that's why I had a bad year last year.   
But everything is fine with my families and got confidence with my swing and getting better and better.  Had a good year -- started good year this year.   
 Q.  Right now you're the clubhouse leader, top of the leaderboard.  Are you nervous about entering into the last round for the Kia Classic?  
MI JUNG HUR: Not really nervous about where I am right now, but like today's play I focus on my shots and putts, every moment, and it worked really good.   
I will try to do same thing tomorrow and it will bring me a good happen.   
 Q.  What's your mental focus like going into next week's major?  Are you thinking about that at all?  Just focusing on tomorrow's round?  
MI JUNG HUR: Actually, you know, I wasn't in the field next week, and then I had a good week last week and I got in the field next week, which is major and I love to play that ANA.   
Right this momentum, if I keep this momentum to next week I think it's going to be good happen to me for future.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT