SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
November 1, 2019
Mi Jung Hur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Mi Jung, after a 66 and 66, you have a one-shot lead.  
MI JUNG HUR: Yeah, I was on fire the first five holes, and then hit a bogey on 8. It was really a bad shot. I had 80 yards to the pin and missed the green and didn't hit a good chip and missed the putt. That makes me cool down after five birdies.   
 Q.  I understand your husband is traveling with you this week and the week before. How much has his presence helped?  
MI JUNG HUR: Actually he travelled with me I think six times for this year now. I've got two wins, and everybody is saying he's the lucky charm, so I look forward to this weekend, as well.   
 Q.  You won The Scottish Open this year, and Scotland is known for windy conditions, and this course is a course that is known to be very windy. How much does your experience at The Scottish Open help you?  
MI JUNG HUR: Actually my ball flight is pretty low. I hit shots pretty low. I practiced a lot of lower shots, like a punch shot during The Scottish Open, and even this week, as well, because there is so much wind and rain, as well.   
It helps me a lot, because if you have into the wind with a 7-iron, you have to have a 5-iron in your hands here. A lot of players try to fit the wind; me, as well, but me, I think my ball can help in a hurting wind because it's so low.   
 Q.  According to our records, this is your first time here and your best score is tied for 17th before. Can you compare this experience with your previous three outings here in Taiwan?  
MI JUNG HUR: Honestly, two years ago, it was my last time here two years ago, because I didn't play last year -- they played a different course. I thought they are going to play the same course where Nelly won, and I didn't know that they would play here.   
So two years ago, I had a really bad memory, but from now, I can erase all the bad memory and starting to make a new, good memory now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT