SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 31, 2019
Mi Jung Hur
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey-free to start, how does that feel?
MI JUNG HUR: It was really tough condition out there. It was very windy and rained hard. I'm really satisfied with my round. Had a bogey-free today.
Q. How tricky was the wind to calculate out there?
MI JUNG HUR: On No. 5, I hit a driver and it was like 170 to the flag and on my hands, I hit a 5-iron, first time, and then it's starting to blow the wind so hard and I was waiting for the wind, a little bit die. So I just keep my 5-iron on my hand and then the wind getting worse, then I change my club to 4-hybrid and it came still short, which is like -- it was three clubs on that fifth hole.
Q. But you were able to bounce back, make a couple birdies. How much confidence does that give you knowing it was a bit tricky out there?
MI JUNG HUR: I had one chip-in birdie and one was like really far, long putt. I made a birdie and had a lot of lucky shots I think. It wasn't that tough because my iron goes so well. It was good.
Q. What hole was the chip-in?
MI JUNG HUR: I cannot remember. I really cannot remember. Sorry -- oh, I have it.
Chip it in -- sorry. It was on No. 14. Par 3.
Q. What is it with you a tough weather, you won in Scotland, weather was pretty tough there. What is it about your game or maybe your mental approach?
MI JUNG HUR: Honestly, I really don't like this weather, rain and windy. It just reminds me Scotland, but I'm just trying to live in the present. So just try to do my best with what I can do at the moment.
Q. How much fun are you having on the course this year?
MI JUNG HUR: It was really fun like hitting good drivers, good iron shots and nice up-and-down and all the putting, I can remember a few putts for the year, and yeah, I'm having fun on the course for this year.
Q. Only three events left for you, what are your goals for the end of the season here?
MI JUNG HUR: I don't want to like think about any other wins -- even when I win the Indy Women in Tech -- I didn't think about the win. During the week I'm just trying to stay in the present. My goal for this year, I just want to focus on my present because it's too hard. I think it's harder than win the tournament.
Q. Is your husband here with you this week?
MI JUNG HUR: He is. Also my parents.
Q. Your lucky charm is back.
MI JUNG HUR: Yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT