LOUISIANA TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 11, 2017
J'mar Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Florida Atlantic - 48, Louisiana Tech - 23   
 Q.  J'Mar, just talk about especially the first half, just you guys not being able to punch the ball in while you guys were in the red zone?  
J'MAR SMITH: In order to win this game, you've got to score points.  For us we got down there four times, I think, got 12 points, and we had a missed field goal.  But we can't rely on anybody else as an offense.  We've got to put the ball in the end zone in any way possible.  Like I said last week, we've got to put the ball in the end zone.  We can't allow three points to be enough.  We've got to go down there and have the mindset to get six points.   
 Q.  How difficult is it to get that close and then have to come off the field and give it to the special teams?  
J'MAR SMITH: It hurts.  You work so hard to get down there, you fight, 1st, 2nd, 3rd down, you fight just to get the extra down.  You don't want to get off the field.  When we get down there, we have to have the mindset to put the ball in the end zone, and when we don't, it hurts the offense.  But we know that we have another drive coming up, so we've got to erase that bad thought, get back on the field, and try to put us back on the board.   
 Q.  The plays that kind of take about two seconds to develop, the pump fake, what are you seeing out there on the field that there might not just be something there?  
J'MAR SMITH: Just trying to move the safeties with my eyes, just trying to create lanes, trying to find holes for our receivers, and just get the ball to our receivers in the proper spots.   
 Q.  What about having those three guys out there for what seems like may have been since the Mississippi State game that you've had Teddy out there, that you had Rhashid out there and you had Adrian out there all together?  You were looking different directions, and I think it really helped the passing game tonight.  Just talk about that.  
J'MAR SMITH: It feels good just having all our receivers, all our guys honestly as an offense and as a team.  I know for me just trying to give our guys a chance just to catch the ball, it helps me and it helps the offense as a confidence level once we move the ball.  It feels good just to throw the ball, see them complete and make plays for all our receivers.   
 Q.  You guys have to win out to become bowl eligible.  Is it kind of surprising that this team is at that point of the season?  
J'MAR SMITH: Yeah.  You know, we've had a standard of making -- always making it at least to the Conference Championship, and we had a rough spot.  Life brings different challenges, and we have a challenge right now.  We've hit adversity, it's just how we're going to respond to it and if we're tough enough to just come together and just win these next two games.   
 Q.  For you guys to not be in the Conference Championship picture at this point in the season, does that hurt you guys a little bit?  
J'MAR SMITH: Yeah, it does.  It hurts me because the seniors, just want to put them out on a good note.  We all had the mindset just to get to the Conference Championship, and right now we're in a tough spot, but we know we still have an opportunity to make the season great, so we just keep fighting and keep building the brotherhood and just stay together.   
 Q.  Late in the game, especially on that last scoring drive for you guys (indiscernible) 13-play drive to score, how do you build that confidence from that drive and take it into next week?  
J'MAR SMITH: Just go out there and have fun, just don't be so tight.  You be tight, you start thinking too much.  I know I had that problem earlier in the season, but just had a talk about the coaches, just go out there, play loose, play fast, just have fun.  Just go out there and do your job and do what you know how to do.   
 Q.  You had a career high tonight.  I think you rolled up over 400 yards of total offense.  So you had that positive, but yet you guys still unfortunately lose the game.  How do you feel about the type of game that you had tonight?  Is it good?  Does it feel bad?  
J'MAR SMITH: No, it's bad.  The numbers don't mean anything.  Only thing that matters to me is the win, and we lost, so I still feel bad.  The numbers are great and everything.  I did my best just to put our team in the best situation to win, but we came out with a loss.  I still have things to fix, and I know I've got to come in the film room and just watch my corrections and just try to get everything corrected.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT