NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 22, 2007
Jerry Sloan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Coach, same song, different verse.  How disappointed are you in again another poor second quarter tonight? 
 JERRY SLOAN:  Poor second quarter and then we got back in the ball game.  I think it was a seven-point ball game.  Whenever it would happen, we would shoot ourselves in the foot.  We would give them an easy basket, a layup or a wide-open shot.  They just took advantage of our inability to be able to see what's going on. 

 Q.  Coach, is there one thing -- one single quality about them that's most impressive? 
 JERRY SLOAN:  Their ability to execute what they want to do.  They get the ball in Duncan's hands, or Parker or Ginobili or one of those guys, and they always make something happen.  They are willing to pass the ball.  They are able to shoot the ball and they do things very efficiently and that's -- you know, that's the mark of a very, very good team. 

 Q.  Jerry, you have been in this hole before 2-0 to Houston and came back then.  How do you feel at this stage with this team? 
 JERRY SLOAN:  I hope our players feel like they can come back.  That's the most important thing, and gain a little confidence and hopefully play better and try to gain a little knowledge about how to play better and not do things that's going to hurt you every time. 
 We get in tough situations.  We fail to bump on screens, give guys layups and got lost defensively.  I don't know how many times simply because they did a great job of -- they back door cut us a couple times.  We were totally lost.  Our big people, their heads were spinning like a top. 

 Q.  Jerry, what can you do to get back in the series?  It seems like every time you come back, they have an answer for you. 
 JERRY SLOAN:  Well, I think you just got to keep playing.  We have not -- I don't think we put together a full game where we really laid it out there.  I mean, second quarters kill us obviously.  I think if you can try to overcome that, stay in the ball game and just continue to do what we have to do, and that is execute.  It is not drop your head and take shots, which we have a tendency to do.  Think, haven't touched the ball a little bit and I will fire one up there and it doesn't go in.  Everybody thinks we have to shoot three-point shots.  And here we miss them and then they go to the other end of the floor.  Those are things we have to learn how to do. 
 I'd rather the guy drive the ball to the basket and come up with something there rather than pulling up on some of those shots we took. 

 Q.  They haven't been a great three-point shooting team all year.  They seem to be making a lot of them.  Are those open shots? 
 JERRY SLOAN:  They have done a great job getting themselves open.  In my opinion, we have let people get on top of the basket.  We haven't been able to keep people off the penetration.  We had a difficult time keeping them in front of us.  When that happens, you open yourself wide open.  That's a natural reaction.  Most of these guys have played basketball for 20 years, the natural reaction is I've got to help inside and as soon as you do, they throw it to the corners. 

 Q.  Going home has got to give them a lift, though, you think? 
 JERRY SLOAN:  We will see.  We hope it does.  We have a bunch of guys that want to do well and hopefully they will fight back and give us an opportunity to win. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT