NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 30, 2007
Jerry Sloan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Do you know if you have your full team tonight?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  Do I know?  Not right now.   
  
  Q.  Do you know about either one of them yet?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  Not really.  Not exactly.   
  
  Q.  What will it take as far as Deron and whether or not you know he will be able to go?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  Whether he goes out there and tries.  He is still in the training room.  He hasn't gone out of the training room yet.   
  
  Q.  Is that call up to you, just how he moves?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  I don't make those decisions.  That's entirely up to our medical staff.  If it was left up to me, I would be very cautious about any player.   
  
  Q.  Jerry, even though there were a couple of incidents the other night, do you have a positive sense about how people in Utah have responded to your team during these playoffs?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  Yeah, I just felt bad about what happened up there.  It was one of those things that I think they got too involved.  We probably all got too involved in the game.   
 I think it is always bad for basketball when those things happen because San Antonio is a wonderful franchise.  They have a wonderful group of players and coaches and staff and everything.  I hate to leave it with any kind of negative approach, but that certainly didn't help it.   
  
  Q.  But that night aside then, what's your sense --   
 JERRY SLOAN:  Our fans have been terrific.  We couldn't ask for them to be any -- they have been terrific when we lost 56 games.  And to me that's a major -- of what your fans are all about.  They all show up when your win.  But when you lose, where are they?  Our fans were there when we lost 56 games.   
 That to me is the most important thing.   
  
  Q.  Even though the Spurs got knocked out in the second round last year, I know you don't care what people on the outside think, some people are saying maybe it is a little more open in the west.  Did you ever think that?  Did you think teams would still have to go through San Antonio this year to have a chance?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  I have tremendous respect for this team, as long as they have had Duncan and Popovich and those people.  They do a terrific job.  I have all the respect in the world for what they have been about and the kind of players they deal with and things like that.   
 You know, they get everything going with the players they have.  I thought they would be awfully difficult to play against.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT