NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 28, 2007
Jerry Sloan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Jerry, how much has the uncertainty over Deron affected preparation, if at all?   
 COACH SLOAN:  Well, if he plays, fine.  If he doesn't, we've still got to play.  It is just the way it is.  I hope he is able to play.  I think he will be and go from there.  You put the uniform on, you expect it.  Nothing less than that.   
  
  Q.  How close do you think he is to full strength or is he?   
 COACH SLOAN:  I don't know.  I don't worry about those things.  You can't worry about it.  If he is able to play, he plays; if he doesn't, he doesn't.  We played against some guys over the years that were sick and killed us so I hope that works to our side this time (smiling).   
 That's why I don't worry about it.  You can't do anything about it.  If the guy is able to play -- if he has a problem, we will take him out of the game and try to take him out.   
  
  Q.  Anybody in particular that played against you sick that killed you?   
 COACH SLOAN:  Remember Michael Jordan (laughter)?   
  
  Q.  How much has the morale of the team changed in just a matter of a couple days now?   
 COACH SLOAN:  We haven't been around them a lot.  We haven't spent a lot of time.  Practice has been fairly short this time of year anyway because we played this team.  This is the fourth game we've played them in the playoffs.  So ordinarily we don't spend a lot of time.  They have been fine.  They have been fine all along.   
 Even when we lost games, I thought that our players had been pretty much together, I guess, you might say.  I don't know how to judge that anyway, to be honest about it.   
  
  Q.  Why do you think you have become so much of a better home team this year than last year?   
 COACH SLOAN:  I think young guys have a tendency at first to be a little bit intimidated by home crowd and I think that took us a little bit to get used to fan putting pressure on them last year and I think they have grown up some.  I think that has helped them a little bit.   
 Our fans are a little bit more vocal now than what they were.  They sit back waiting to find out whether we are going to compete or not, and rightfully so.   
  
  Q.  Would you consider Fish at point guard if Deron couldn't go?   
 COACH SLOAN:  We played without him before a time or two, and that's the way we played.  Put Fish at point guard and Giricek at two and play Dee Brown some.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT