NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 28, 2007
Jerry Sloan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Jerry, what happened in the fourth quarter?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  We just couldn't keep them off the free-throw line.   
  
  Q.  Did they do anything specific to try to get the ball out of Deron's hands in the second quarter?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  They doubled him a few times.  They doubled him.  We misread a couple things we wanted to be able to do out of that, and we threw the ball away.  We had three or four possessions where we just threw the ball away.   
 They put pressure on us and we couldn't handle that situation very well.   
  
  Q.  Can you give us a little insight into the circumstances of your technicals and Derek's first one?  Was it just the frustration level there?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  I don't talk about those because all that does is give me more trouble.   
  
  Q.  Was there a little bit of frustration?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  I said I wouldn't talk about it.  Thank you.   
  
  Q.  Just being down 3-1 now, what kind of gravity of the situation is it for you guys now?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  It is very difficult, but I was proud the way -- I thought our guys played their hearts out.  I couldn't ask for guys to play any harder.  I thought they competed about as much as you could ask of guys to compete.  You know, we came up short.   
 I think that's what they've got to learn every time they step on the floor, is obviously you need to learn how to stick with what you are trying to do and not have the turnovers and not have the fouls that put them on the free-throw line, regardless of circumstances.   
  
  Q.  It seemed like in the second half, your team especially, Deron, took the ball to the basket more often.  Was that something that you talked about at halftime?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  No.  He always has that leeway as a point guard.  I mean, that's the way we try to run the floor.  Once the floor opens up, hopefully he has a chance to beat his man once in a while because if he doesn't have that option and he is playing the guy -- the guy is playing him one-on-one, stroking him the whole ride, he has got to have that option to be able to get an opportunity to go to the basket once in a while so he can relieve some of the pressure.   
  
  Q.  Was it a source of pride to see the way Deron came back after being under the weather the way he was, continuing to grow up?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  He is a wonderful player.  He is a very competitive guy.  And I am happy for him, happy for our team that we're still playing and that they will hopefully rise up and find some way to try to win another ball game.  And that's all you do, one game at a time.   
 That's a learning process that young guys have to go through, how tough it is, how mentally tough you have to be.  I think that's very important.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT