NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 26, 2007
Jerry Sloan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Coach, can you just talk about this whole feeling that when you come home for you guys things have always been so much better.  Is it really home, or is there too much of something else?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  Obviously it was.  Our guys off the bench played better and that was huge in us having a chance to win.  They had better production tonight than what we've had on the road.   
  
  Q.  Jerry, it looked like Mehmet was much more active defensively in the first half against Tim.  It seemed like there were a lot more deflections when they tried to post him.   
 JERRY SLOAN:  We tried to be, but I think Duncan didn't have one of his better games, in all fairness to him, because he is a great player.   
 But we had to try to take advantage of it when we get an opportunity, and fortunately we were able to win the ball game.  And Mehmet struggled a great deal with his game as well.   
  
  Q.  It looked like you guys really surged when Duncan went to the bench in foul trouble.  Is that where you picked up confidence to take control of the game?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  I thought we played with fairly decent confidence most of the time from the start of the game.  Obviously in the early part of the ball game they made some shots and I thought we were playing hard.   
 I thought if we could stay with it and keep playing we would do all right.  We did a better job on the pick-and-roll stuff we had to deal with today (smiling).   
  
  Q.  How big of a confidence booster was this for your team after the first two games?   
 JERRY SLOAN:  Well, I'm just happy for our guys, because to be down against this team 2-zip and then come back and have to do whatever you have to do to win, I thought our guys were able to do that.  Hopefully it gets their confidence up and be ready to compete and see where we are.   
  
  Q.  Coach, it looked like Deron Williams and Boozer really took over the game in the fourth quarter.  Can you talk about that a little bit.   
 JERRY SLOAN:  They executed very well, what we were trying to do.  You can't ask for much more than what they did.  They made their shots.  I thought they did a great job of trying to keep control of the basketball and they shot the ball well.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT