NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: JAZZ v SPURS
May 24, 2007
Jerry Sloan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Talk about being at home 6-0 in the playoffs? 
 JERRY SLOAN:  We will see how we play.  We have to have a tremendous effort to try to beat this team.  We have to do a better job trying to stop the pick-and-roll stuff and try to keep from getting the three-point shots out of that. 

 Q.  How much do you need someone besides Carlos and Deron to pick things up? 
 JERRY SLOAN:  We just need to pick ourself up defensively.  Everybody talks about guys -- I am not worried about guys getting shots.  I am worried about guys stopping somebody. 
 We go out and play a very casual game.  The way we ran back down the floor and we got back into things, the way we competed.  You know, it is like -- let's not get too tough on them. 

 Q.  How do you not bite when Tony drives in and dribbles a little bit longer than normally he does? 
 JERRY SLOAN:  I wish we did bite. 

 Q.  You bring the help but then the open guys -- 
 JERRY SLOAN:  I wish somebody would bite somebody.  That's not a bad idea.  I may try to use that.  We just have to try to do a better job of trying to keep them in front of us and we haven't done that very well. 
 They do a terrific job.  They beat us -- when you look at all the things they did, they beat us on some plays but they beat us where we totally lost.  We were totally lost on the defensive end.  You can back and pinpoint guys and say they need help.  They need to help themselves first.  You don't holler for help until you help yourselves.  That's one of the things we have to do a better job of, not giving them layups and trying to recognize what's going on in transition so we don't give them layups off of transition and take some of those things away. 
 Then I know we are competing if we are doing some of those things. 

 Q.  Are they doing something different?  Why do you get lost? 
 JERRY SLOAN:  I don't know.  You'll have to ask them.  94 feet, they ought to be able to find themselves.  Have a few guys do 360s but not the kind you like to see, just on defense. 

 Q.  (Question regarding Mehmet Okur.) 
 JERRY SLOAN:  He's had shots.  It is not like he is not taking shots.  He just hasn't made some of them like he's made in the past. 

 Q.  Do you think it is a combination of he is trying to do the inside and outside game as opposed to just focusing on what he can do? 
 JERRY SLOAN:  I think as a basketball player, you learn to do a little bit of everything.  If you are only going to play in one position, then you have to get something out of the other spots that were available. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT