NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 1, 2006
Ryan Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT











 Q.  Ryan, I was just wondering, obviously Marty asked for a trade before the season, and he's still there and you have started off so well.  Can you talk about your relationship with him and how that's going so far this year? 
 RYAN MILLER:  Marty is a great guy.  I understand he wants to play, and I think that he's in a situation where this summer he just kind of took time to voice his opinion, and you can respect that as a player. 
 But I think he knows the amount of fun we have here in Buffalo.  Marty is a good soul.  I think he's the kind of person that would step out of the way for the good of the team. 
 I mean, Marty is a huge part of our team.  His personality makes he's such a -- he is such a great goalie that I think we have a chance to win with him at the net.  So it makes it a lot of fun knowing that we can be comfortable with him and not, you know, our defense can have a smooth transition. 

 Q.  Obviously it's important.  You want to play, too.  Both of you do.  But do you look at teams like Carolina last year with two pretty solid goaltenders, and went on to win th Stanley Cup, do you think that having two goaltenders a, quote, benefit to the team? 
 RYAN MILLER:  Oh, yeah, just the way the NHL is setting up this year and last year, there's more scoring opportunities.  There's more penalty kills. 
 There's a lot more stress on the goalies, so I mean, you need two guys.  It's not going to be like in the old days like where you're only seeing twenty shots a night. 
 Those are pretty easy nights compared to a lot of nights we see now. 

 Q.  Hey Ryan, just wondering, just such an emphasis on offense in the league.  So many teams are having trouble keeping it under 3, 3 1/2 goals-against.  What's been the key to your team's team defense, especially on a team that's known for such wide open play? 
 RYAN MILLER:  I think it's just, one, that we have -- I don't think we -- wide open -- it appears to be wide open, but we have a responsible man when we're forechecking to allow our defense to interact.  We work as a unit.  I think that that's the case for our team being wide open, but also responsive. 
 Also in our own zone we do a good job of supporting each other in the shooting lanes.  So I think Marty and I definitely benefit from a situation like that. 

 RYAN MILLER:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT