BIG 12 CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL MEDIA DAY
October 24, 2017
Curtis Shaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We are ready to start with the Big 12 men's basketball official, Curtis Shaw.  He is going to give us the rules and he's going to take his own questions.
CURTIS SHAW: Thank you.  Good morning everybody.  I want to spend a few minutes to update you on what's going on with the Rules Committee, the men's oversight and the men's rules committee dictates college basketball and how they want the game to look and they do the rules accordingly.  This year we have 26 new rules, so it's been a busy cycle for them.  Truly about 12 matter to the game, a lot of it is administrative stuff.
I want to clear up the different ones that are going to be affected that the fans are going to notice and you in the media are going to notice so maybe we can help explain them in advance.
A couple of them, we put in a loose ball fall in college basketball and where that is going to affect us is on two different plays.  There has been confusion in the past when the defense knocked the ball away, it hit the offensive player and it would go in the backcourt and the offensive player couldn't be the first one to pick it up and that didn't seem correct to the Rules Committee.  That's now a loose ball foul.  Once the defense causes a deflection there is no team control so.  No matter who it touches in the backcourt anybody can pick it up.  The same loose ball designation goes in on a play where team A has control of the basketball, team B would knock it away and as the two went after it, team A would foul the guy who knocked it away.  Under the old rule that was team control to team A, so team B wouldn't get any free throws if they were merited.  The Rules Committee felt like the defense made a good play but wasn't getting rewarded appropriately.  So we came up with a loose ball definition when any defensive player deflects the ball away it's now loose, there is not team control.  That will be a different one.  The fans went nuts because they didn't understand it the old way, so I think this will help.
The other is a restricted area that we have had in place for a few years now.  We have allowed the defensive player to go vertical last year, so if he was in or over the restricted area and a person drove toward the basket he was allowed to go vertical, then if contact occurred he was not considered in the restricted area.  They've defined this a little better.
In order to be legal you have to face the offensive player, you have to go vertical and you would have had to have come down in basically the same spot.
What that does, you can't turn into anybody, you can't go forward into anybody.  There was kind of a feeling among a lot of teams that as long as you went vertical he was cleansed and he couldn't foul.  That's not the case.  You have to go vertical and then be able to come down in the same spot.
The last one is the emphasis on traveling, and we talked about it with coaches this morning.  We cannot allow the offensive players tougher bad footwork if we're going to do what the Rules Committee wants and back the defense off.  Therefore, this year you're going to see a heavy emphasis on traveling both on the perimeter and in the post whether there is defense involved or not.  We've had a lot of plays in the past where the guard is out on the perimeter, might make a step to get started and we ignored it because there was no defender around or they catch it in bad shooting position and they have to reset their feet in order to get in good shooting position; and, again, there was no defender around and we ignored it.  No more.  They want the footwork called by the letter of the law.  They also want it in the post.  Our big guys taking an extra shuffle step and reset to get off an offensive move they want it by the letter of the law to the point where we designated a different official to watch this than in the past.  So if you're at a game and all of the sudden you hear a whistle coming from one of the outside two officials, maybe not the person on the play, don't be shocked because they're now designated to watch the footwork.  Those are three things that you're going to see that is going to help clear up a lot of the game and a lot of the fan confusion.
A couple of emphasis, let's start with the post play.  The Rules Committee is adamant about stopping rough post play from the start.  Do not allow the defensive player to initiate contact where we end up getting a second foul.  Here is a perfect example.  Watch the players down in the post.  It may not show up.  As you can see the player in gray starts this play.  Right there he's in an illegal position.  We have designated a different referee to watch that the minute the offensive player tries to make a move and he's got him held we want a defensive foul.  What end up happening is the offensive player retaliates, hooks under and throws him backwards and we call it on offense.  Same play here in the post.  We do not want a defensive player who gets beat to a spot to physically be able to move somebody off that spot.  We told the teams and the players if you get beat you've got to play from behind.  You cannot try to regain it.
Part two is if the offense post with the arm extended like this, he's now illegal.  You can only post legally in the touchdown position.  Once he does that and the defender tries to get through that arm, we're going to have an offensive foul.  They're adamant on getting post play cleaned up.
Another example of physically moving a guy off when you lost your spot.  We want it called immediately, not waiting to see the result of the play.
So cleaning up the post play is a huge, huge emphasis from the Rules Committee.  The Rules Committee chairman came to us as a group and basically said we want the defense to have to back off.  We want more possessions and more opportunities to score in our basketball games.  So they're going to limit the defensive ability to physically attack the basketball or a player.
Next, we've got an emphasis on free throw rebounding.  Watch the player in the second lane space.  He moves the player under, and in the old days it was kind of you weren't big enough to hold him off, too bad.  No more.  Stop right there.  As the Rules Committee said, you're getting a wide open 15-foot shot.  That's your reward for getting fouled.  We have to learn to make free throws.  We don't shoot very well.  We have to learn to shoot free throws.  If you miss the free throw your teammate doesn't have the right to then go get the basketball.  They can loop behind, step straight across and hope for a long rebound.  But if they displace the inside player at all, and the free throw is then missed, we want a defensive foul.
All right?  Go ahead.  Screens.  Hold it right there.  The definition of a screen was always confusing in the past.  In the past, a legal screen, the outside of my feet were only supposed to be as wide as my shoulder.  That was like this.  I didn't have a good base to set a legal screen.  We never enforced that.  We let the kids get set.  We've changed the definition to the inside of your foot as wide as your shoulder.  That way I can get a good screen to brace myself.  I can protect and however I want to protect I cannot have extended elbows.  All right?
The number one thing on a screen is this:  The screener must be stationary at contact.  That's what we teach referees.  If the screener is moving he can never be legal.  This comes into play on the ball handoffs and we will show some of those.
Here is an example of a screen on the baseline where he's never set.  He's coming from behind and beside, continues to move forward and we get the play absolutely backwards.  This is what we have to eliminate.  We have to make the screeners be set and be legal the whole way.  We've even changed who is watching for this type of play.
Another good example on the baseline, he takes a little half step at the end, so he's never legal.  The screener must be set at contact.  Here is the ball handoff.
The minute you release the basketball you are now considered a screener not a ball handler.  You have no more rights.  The only way to legally set a screen on a ball handoff is to immediately come to a jump stop before exact or the onus is on you to totally avoid contact.  This is a difficult play.  We've had coaches say he's supposed to hand it off and go to the corner.  You don't have that right.  So there is no continuation for the ex-ball handler because he's now a screener.  Here it is in slow motion, give you a better example.
Right now, he's a screener.  When he makes that contact that's illegal, whether defense tries to go high or low.  Here is an example of a screen that's too wide.  You can see in the slow motion coming up that his feet are definitely outside his shoulders, therefore when contact occurs to the leg area, that's going to be illegal.  Here is another ball handoff that's extremely difficult.  I'm not sure there is anything they can do but the minute he hands off and makes contact with the defender, either going high or low you have an illegal screen.  The Rules Committee is adamant that we're not going to let the defense attack you on offense.  We can't let the offense get away with things like illegal screens and travels.
Example of a back pick, anytime you set a pick from behind you must give the defensive player a full step to turn and change direction.  So any contact comes from behind, a flat screen at the free throw line they have to give 'em a step if contact occurs.  What's probably the biggest change we're going to see in a while is called the cylinder rule.  We've put in a new deal last year with the elbows that if the elbows swinging through the area hit a defensive player you can get a flagrant foul.  The Rules Committee went back and looked at it.  They decided the defense was getting too close.  The old rule was you could get as close to a player as possible when stationary short of contact.  They decided that does not allow the offensive player to make an offensive move.  If I was like this and the defense closed on me and I went to move I had no where to go.  They decided the offensive player now has a cylinder and the way to define the cylinder is when the offensive player is stationary, has the basketball in front of him, not extended but here, he can turn side-to-side, low or high, and that's his cylinder.
So if a defensive player, we'll see some in a trap, comes into my space and I try to make a move and I have contact with him, whereas in the past we might have had an offensive foul it's going to be a defensive foul.  It does not mean the offensive player can pivot into the contact, it's only when stationary side-to-side.
That means a defender from the back can come all the way up as close as he wants because I can't hit him unless I pivot into him.  Let's show them.  Here is an example after a rebound the defensive player attacks the man with the ball.
Now the offensive player tries to raise up to make a pass, knocks him down, throws him off, this is a defensive cylinder foul.  One of the key things we look at is when the defender straddles the offensive player's leg.  If you straddle his leg you have not given him room to make an offensive move.
Same example here.  This wasn't even called a foul last year.  But watch it in slow motion.  It's slight contact, but they want this called.  The offensive player loses possession, regains it, stop.  Right now the defense is okay.  He's a little too close, but then go ahead.  Stop right there.  Now he takes that extra step forward, his right foot, he straddles his leg and not prevents the offensive player from taking the ball to the side to throw a pass.  This has to stop.  Slight contact, displaces the defense, this year that will be a defensive foul.
Another example in the post with the secondary defender collapsing down into him, straddles his leg, ends up getting hit in the face.  So if you straddle your leg you close where the offensive player doesn't have the chance to make a move.
Part two of this play is you still don't have the right as an offensive player to use an elbow.  By this year's rule, that play right there should have been a defensive cylinder foul for getting too close then a flagrant one foul because he hit him with the elbow.  We're telling the coaches you're going to end up with a good player who is going to get a broken nose and is going to get called for the foul.  You have to back off and give them basketball distance in order to make a move, but offensively you cannot lead with the elbow.  Elbows have to be bent to make that move.
Here is a great example on a double team how when he pivots the way the defender closes all the way into his leg so he cannot turn his shoulders and come backwards.  Right now we're pretty good.  He pivots away; the defender closes, never stationary, moves forward, gets hit, this will be a defensive cylinder foul.
Here is a different play.  Here is the offense who initiates by stepping forward.  You can see he's in good shape, he then leads with the elbow into the defensive player.  This will still be an offensive foul and a flagrant one foul for leading with the elbow.  The defender is behind, he can get as close as he wants and the offensive player pivots with his right foot and he invades defensive space.
The things the referees are going to look for and the things the media and the fans need to look for are did the offensive player change the pivot foot or was he moving the ball side-to-side without extending it?  If it's side-to-side the defense can't crash.  If it's pivot foot the defense is allowed to stay in their position.
That is a quick rundown of what is going on this year.  Some of the things to clear up.  There are a lot of other rule changes that don't affect things that y'all will notice.  But are there any questions about things that are going on and the goal of the Rules Committee?
Again, I like to say, there is no referee on the Oversight Committee.  There is no referee on the Rules Committee.  We have no input into what they decide they want us to do.  We just have to be the ones that enforce it.  Yes, sir?
Q. (No microphone.)
CURTIS SHAW: No.  Well, it can be.  It can be a charge if there is enough contact for a charge or it can be a no-call.  So if I go straight up and I would have come down in my same spot but the offensive player initiates into me and I go backwards that's a no call or could be an offensive foul.  Part two of it is, if that contact causes me to --
Q. (No microphone.)
CURTIS SHAW: I'm not going to penalize the defender because the offense caused that contact.
Q. (No microphone.)
CURTIS SHAW: The Rules Committee says we want them to back off.  In talking to some of our coaches that trap they say really that's not bad.  Because if I'm stuck here I've got a defender here who is legal, a defender here who is legal.  They're getting bigger.  It makes it harder for me to get over it.  When I was closing so tight it was giving them more room to step through the trap to get rid of it.  Surprisingly a lot of our coaches don't think it will affect their trap.  It will make 'em stay further back but still be effective.
Q. (No microphone.)
CURTIS SHAW: It gives us great concern.  I quit on the floor in 2010 and you had the abusive fans, but it wasn't the level it is today, and I read an article about the Florida football coach saying his players and his family are getting death threats.  I think our fans have gone way overboard.  Fans are great.  You're allowed to cheer, boo, be for your team, but when we start getting into personal threats it's scary.
We are worried in basketball.  We're just waiting for a fan to come out and hit a referee, or an opposing player because they lose their minds.  So it's something we're concerned about.  Our teams and our game management do a great job of educating the people down low on what they can and can't do.  But it's a grave concern right now due to our social nature and the right that I can do whatever I want if I paid for my ticket.  It is a concern.
Q. (No microphone.)
CURTIS SHAW: I think there is more awareness.  I'm not sure there are a lot of steps.  The conference office does a great job of educating the game managers of what we will allow the people on the court to do.  They get a specific letter of guidelines they can and can't do.  If we have abusive fans as referees, we go to game management and say this person can't be here.  If it's a certain thing you can move him upstairs where you can't hear him but he can be here.  If it's a direct threat to the a referee or opposing player or certain language is used, they gotta go all the way out of the gym.  I think there is more of a willingness in this day and age to remove a possible threat or issue.  So game management does a great job with the conference office to try to control everything.
Q. Rule changes that came about two, three, four years ago, and reaction to the offensive flow was going down in the college game and a lot of grabbing and so forth.  Ten, 12 years from now, once everything -- these games start going up, people are going to start complaining now there is no defense being played.  Do you see back and forth with more rule changes going defensively?
CURTIS SHAW: I really don't think so.  I really don't think you're going to have complaints that there is no defense.  Jamie Dixon and I were talking the other day in his office about when he played and he watched films.  They didn't guard by physically attacking.  One of the members of the Rules Committee said defensive basketball was meant to get in front of your opponent and stop him from having a layup to the basket.  You were never intended to be able to attack him.  So I think the Rules Committee and what they have told us is we want them to back off.  We want these rules enforced.  We know we're going to have complaints early.  We want them enforced just like they did with the hand checks and now it's not a problem.
I think the Rules Committee wants to see the scoring, I think it's gone up in the last two years for 7 points, they would love the scoring for every team to be over 80.  I think the whole intent is the fan action of offense is more exciting.  The Connecticut-Butler game was the final straw in the Final Four.  I think it was so physically dominating.  They said we gotta change.  I don't see 'em going backwards.  Anything else?  Thank you sirs and ladies!






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT