AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2017
Mirjana Lucic-Baroni
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/M. Lucic-Baroni   
6-2, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How was this match for you compared to your other ones this week?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: It was amazing match from Serena.  She served incredible.  She played really well from the first point.  When Serena plays that well, it's really difficult to play against.   
Zero excuse from my side.  But, yeah, I was a little bit empty.  It was tough.  I was really trying.  I don't know how it looked.  I know it happened very fast.  I was trying really hard to get back into it.  But it was just...   
And you can't afford, against Serena, to be a step slow, a step not ready, not there, not powerful, not strong.   
Just too good.  Too good of a performance for her.   
 Q.  Tough going back-to-back after the marathon you had against Pliskova?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: Yeah, it's tough.  I played 10 matches, I think, here.  Crazy, every single day.  I haven't had a day off.  I don't know the last time I had a day off.  I played every day.   
Yeah, yesterday for sure, also emotionally it was quite draining.  It was really incredible.  Physically, I mean, every day I played.  It was difficult to heal the leg.  It was difficult to do everything.   
But I don't want to make it about that.  No excuse at all.  It was tough, for sure.  It would have been nice to have a day off, but I didn't.  I tried my best today.  I feel like I have nothing to be ashamed of.   
 Q.  How much did you enjoy the buildup from the quarterfinals to today?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: The buildup?   
 Q.  To the game, the publicity, the attention you got.  Did you enjoy that?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: I'm a very modest person.  Of course, it's nice.  The most I enjoyed was playing the last point in quarterfinals, winning, then the next five minutes, especially the next 30 seconds after that last point.   
But, yeah, this is all nice and fun.  But for me, it's those moments on the court, those 30 seconds to a minute of just amazing feelings.   
 Q.  What were the last 24 hours like for you?  How did you process everything and turn the page?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: Well, today, it was just like any other match.  It was the same as after first round.  I finished my media.  I did my ice bath before.  I did my recovery, massage, treatment.  Pretty much everything the same.  Came to my room and had room service, went to sleep.  Really simple.   
It's been the same yesterday.  But, of course, I mean, in the back of your mind, after that long...  You're in semifinals.  You can fool yourself as much as you want, for sure.  It's a bit draining on the mind, body, emotions and everything.   
It's been fun, for sure.   
 Q.  On Monday you're going to actually surpass your previous career-high ranking.  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: That's amazing.   
 Q.  Talk about why that's amazing to you.  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: Well, that's amazing because who would have thought at 34 years old I would be breaking my personal best.  I mean, that's a little silly.  It's crazy, but really fun.  It's really nice.   
Like I said, I always knew I could do it.  It's easy to talk, I belong here, I'm good enough to be there.  Until results speak for you, it's all talk.  I never like to talk like that.   
It's really nice.  I'm proud of myself.  I had an incredible two weeks, singles, doubles.  I played semifinals of singles, quarters of doubles.  I would sign for that every time, for sure.   
 Q.  Going back to 1998, what do you remember of that match against Serena?  Did you envisage then she could have the career she's had?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: No, I am not a fortuneteller, and I can't tell the future.  I can't see that.   
Look, she's an incredible champion, had an amazing career.  I don't remember much.  It was a long time ago, our last match.   
What I can tell you is that today she showed up, played amazing tennis, played the way a champ plays semifinals.  She wanted it.  She played amazing.  She went after it.   
I wished her good luck.  I hope tomorrow she'll break another record.   
 Q.  How much has that experience spurred you now that you've had a taste of a semifinal of a Grand Slam to what you can possibly achieve now?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: It's an amazing start to the year, for sure.  I'm so motivated.  My physio, everybody is telling me, every physio, Okay, now you got to rest, fix the leg, we got to start.   
I'm so excited to get on the practice court.  Maybe not tomorrow, but couple days.  This gives me so much motivation.  I already texted my fitness coach.  I'm like, Okay, I'll be ready in a few days.   
I'm really excited.  Now I want to work even harder.  I want to continue having success and playing well and enjoying this, keep going forward.   
 Q.  Does seeing two of the older players in the final give you hope for the future?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: I don't think very far ahead.  There is definitely a change in tennis right now.  Us oldies are hanging in there and doing well.  It's nice.  It's nice to see.  Yeah, I feel like it's good for me.   
It's good for younger players also because they don't have to feel the pressure of, Oh, my God, you're 21, you didn't make it, it's the end of your life.   
It's really nice.  It's good for everybody.  It's going to be good for tennis.  I'm sure tomorrow is going to be a nice final.   
 Q.  Does this change your plans at all?  You're now top 30, get into more main draws than you would have before.  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: No more quallies (fists in the air).   
 Q.  Does it change your planning?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: Not much.  I was planning to play the big tournaments anyway, I was just in quallies of some.  Now I'm going to be in the main draw.  It's going to be so nice.   
No, I think it's going to be pretty much more or less the same.  Maybe few differences.  I don't know really at the moment.  It's going to be more fun, for sure.   
 Q.  Is there one moment in these two weeks that stands out to you most?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: It would have to be yesterday when her forehand sailed into the net, the moment I realized, Oh, my God, I'm in semifinals again.  Those two seconds right there, just kind of disbelief, is this actually happening, is the score right.  That was incredible.   
I think that moment will probably stay in my mind forever.   
 Q.  You were quick to grab the phone and do a bit of a selfie on the court.  You just wanted to capture the moment?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: Yeah, the emotion was really nice.  The court was full.  It was just a beautiful moment.  It was just something for me.  I just want to have in my phone.  It's just that moment, full crowd, packed court.  It was really a very beautiful moment.   
 Q.  Any thoughts on how the final might go on Saturday?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: Would you believe me if I tell you that I don't care at all?  I hope it doesn't sound the way it sounded.   
I'm sure it's going to be a great final, I'm sure.  I'm happy for both Venus and Serena.  It's something really special.  What they've done, what they've achieved, two sisters, incredible really.  It's an incredible story.  I'm happy for them.  They have that special moment again.  It's amazing.   
I'm going to be on a plane, flying home, see my family, get a little bit of rest.  So, yeah, I'm done.  I'm done.  I'm not going to watch.   
 Q.  On Twitter yesterday there was a lot of outpouring of support and love for you.  I don't think you're on Twitter.  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: I'm not.   
 Q.  Have you received personal private messages?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: I have, so many.  It's been so incredible.  So many friends, former players that played before, even before my time.  It's really incredible how much support I've received.  Just about every person I know and don't know have accused me of making them cry.   
It's been really nice.  I felt so much support.  I felt like the whole world is with me and supporting me, sharing this really amazing moment with me.  It's really filled my heart with so much joy.   
 Q.  Do you know what your schedule is going forward?  
MIRJANA LUCIC-BARONI: I'm not sure.  I was in Doha, Dubai quallies.  I don't think I'm going to make the first one just because of my leg.  I need to recover a little bit.  But, yeah, we're going to have to sit down a little bit and kind of see how I feel after a week or so and then decide from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT