U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 1994
Sally Little
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LES UNGER: Dale, would you just review your non-par holes for
us, if you would.

DALE EGGELING: Okay.

LES UNGER: Unless you have got a good save that you would like
to talk about.

DALE EGGELING: Actually, the second hole was a very good save.
I hit my drive down the right side and I left it on the up-slope,
in the bunker, in the grass. And then I had thought I had no shot.
I had to get it out down the fairway, left myself 66 yards from
the pin. I knocked a sand wedge up there about ten feet, kind
of a little right to left of the pin, almost pin high, and made
that for par. So that was like, woosh, thank God. Then I got --
that was the only really saving par on the front side. Then I
bogeyed number six which was not a hard shot at all, whatsoever.
I had a 4-iron in my hand from the middle of the fairway, hit
a really good drive and just chunked it about, oh, ten yards short
of the green, and chipped it about three feet past the hole. Lisa
Kiggens had the same putt as I did past the hole. I watched her
putt. It looked like she hit hers dead in straight, so I did the
same thing and I made bogey there. And then, so, that was my first
bogey there and then I bogeyed number 8. Again, I don't think
I missed a fairway today. Did I miss a fairway? I only missed
one fairway; didn't I? I think I missed one on number 2. I think
that was it. I drove the ball real well today. On number 8 I killed
the drive down the middle of the fairway; only got 165 yards left
to the pin. So I thought, well, I am just going to take a 6-iron
and let it head up on the green and roll off. Well, I fanned it
right into the bunker and blasted it out about eight feet. I had
one of those putts where if you miss the hole, you are dead. So
I just kind of lagged it down there and said if it goes in, fine;
if it doesn't, I am just going to make sure that I have no worse
than a bogey. That is the important thing here on these greens
- if you have to make a putt, you want to make sure that you don't
leave it above the hole because it is scary. Then 9 was an easy
par, but then I got on the backside and I ended up four under
on the backside and I didn't even know I was four under on the
backside.

LES UNGER: If these records are correct, you have just shot
ten shots better than the first round in 1989.

DALE EGGELING: I shot 77? Wow!

LES UNGER: That is what it says.

DALE EGGELING: I'd say that is a nice improvement. So, basically,
on the backside I just kept my composure and on ten I hit a good
drive down the middle. I hit an 8-iron up on the green from 126
yards, a little uphill against the wind, knocked it about 15 feet
pin high to the right. And that is one of those putts that if
my putt didn't hit the hole, I probably would have been about
eight feet by. I was just trying to lag the ball down there. The
hole got in the way so I was very fortunate for that one. Then,
my next birdie came on number 12 which was the par 5, I hit a
driver 5-wood just in the little fringe right in front of the
green, and chipped it up, stinky chip about eight feet short of
the pin, with my 9-iron, and rolled that putt in. So that made
me feel real good too. My next birdie came on number 14, par 4.
Let me think, 14 -- okay. 14, I hit a good drive down the middle.
I had 147 yards uphill a little bit against the wind, so I just
-- I elected to hit a hard 6-iron so if I hit it good, I knew
there was no way it could go passed the pin, and if I didn't hit
it that good, it would still be a little bit short of the pin.
I knocked that about 16 feet; made that for birdie. Then on 15
par 5, I hit a good driver and a 5-wood, then sand wedged 81 yards
uphill, a little downwind; hit that about five feet; made that
for birdie. I kept that a little bit short of the pin so it was
a little bit easier to be able to rest with that. 17, actually,
I did make -- I would say I made a-- well, I made two good 2-putts
on 17 and 18. 17 I was just a little bit past pin high in the
edge of the fringe and had to putt the ball down and I almost
putted it back down and into the little swell there. So it was
about this far from going back down in the swell. So I kept that
up from the level part and made about a four and a half footer
to save par there. And 18 I hit a good drive down the left-hand
side of the fairway and had a stinky lie. I don't know what had
happened. It was kind of like a little indention and somebody
had been there couple of times before because then there were
a couple of divots there also. So it was like I wasn't sure how
my ball was going to come out of that shot. So I just had to make
sure that I stayed with the shot and I ended up about 70 feet
right of the pin, which is very easy to do on that green because
it is so large. Left my putt about seven feet short of the hole
and I just got over the putt and said, okay, you have worked too
hard to give it away; just keep your head down and stroke it in
the back and I did. So--

LES UNGER: Somebody told us this morning as you were getting
preparing to play, you weren't happy with the way you were practicing.

DALE EGGELING: No, I got on the driving range this morning and
I just -- I did not feel good with my irons. I just -- my alignment
didn't feel good and then as I was walk -- as I was walking to
the putting green I was thinking about it. I told my husband;
I said, I think I know what is wrong; I think my hips were a little
bit too open when I was out on the range and so I just thought
about squaring them up when I was out on the golf course and all
of a sudden everything started clicking and I started hitting
the irons better. I only really hit two bad irons today and that
is only because I got wet. I figured out the reason I was hitting
it bad, after the fact. But if you would have told me after coming
off of the range, do you think you are going to shoot 4 under
par today, I would have gone "ha-ha-ha, you must be nuts."


Q. This is the first time the Open has been played at the same
site within a reasonable amount of time?

DALE EGGELING: Yeah, I think it is great.

Q. How much did that help you from playing in 1989 and then
coming back this year here?

DALE EGGELING: Well, I was really familiar with the greens. That
was the big key because I remembered a lot from the greens from
when we were here before. The course played longer today; not
only because of the weather making the course wet and playing
a little bit longer, but also the USGA pushed us back on a couple
of the tees, where we were able to drive it a couple of corners
before when we were here. Now, it is like you can't get over the
corners; you don't want it to be in the rough, so you have to
play it further out to the left. It is playing tougher now. 

Q. How about the two birdies on the front 3 and 5.

DALE EGGELING: Number 3, oh, I hit a great 3-iron on number 3,
the par 3. I knocked it about a foot and a half from the hole
and made that for birdie. And then on number -- oh, yeah, birdied
both the par threes on the front side. Yeah. How about that? And
then on number 5-- excuse me. Excuse me. Let me retract that.
First birdie was on number 3. I hit a 7-iron about, oh, 15 feet
right of the pin downhill putt and made that. That is another
one of those putts if it doesn't hit the hole, I am probably about
five or six feet by. Then on number 5, the par 3, it was playing
178 yards against the wind and I just blistered a 3-iron about
a foot and a half and made that for birdie: All of a sudden I
am thinking, "oh, here we go." Then after I made the
two bogeys, I am thinking "well, here we don't go."
Just keep your composure.

Q. How unusual is it for you to figure something out like that
between the range and the first tee and having it go through your
mind?

DALE EGGELING: Actually it is pretty easy for me because basically
all my life I have grown up playing feel. Everything is basically
feel. I don't think about mechanics when I am out on the golf
course. So making a little adjustment here and there is really
easy for me. It doesn't bother me at all. I mean, any time I change
a thing so slight, it is not going to affect you for the rest
of the day; whereas a lot of players get into trouble because
they have got-- you know, they start thinking mechanics; then
they forget about where they want to hit the ball; how they want
to hit the shot; they are thinking about how to get, you know,
their swing into that position. I never think about that. I just
line it up and hit it.

Q. Dale, could you comment on how the overnight rains and the
general softness of the course affected the scoring?

DALE EGGELING: I think it is going to make -- it played so entirely
different because I played two practice rounds and the course
did play a lot shorter. Now, there are some of the greens out
there too where you think, well, maybe because of the rain, they
are going to be a little bit softer. They are a little bit but
they are not soft enough to where you can fly it right at the
stick. So you are still have to be careful. You have to be cautious.


Q. Dale, you are 0 for 19 in Opens. What would make the 20th
different?

DALE EGGELING: A win. (laughter).

Q. Are you playing well enough after last week and now today?

DALE EGGELING: I am not going to say -- well, how can I word it?
I am just going to play the way I am playing and see what happens.
You never know.

Q. Dale, did you ever play with Carol Semple Thompson during
your amateur days?

DALE EGGELING: I sure did.

Q. What are your impressions of her?

DALE EGGELING: She can flat out play. I mean, I am very surprised
that she never turned pro. I really am. She could have made it
out on Tour. But I guess she doesn't -- I mean, she loves to travel
and everything, but I guess she just didn't want to play week
after week after week. She loves the game and she just enjoys
playing in all the amateur tournaments and -- but yes, we did,
I mean, I have been playing golf now for 36 years. I started when
I was 4.

LES UNGER: 4?

DALE EGGELING: Yeah. So yes, I did play a lot of amateur golf
with Carol as a teenager and then collegiate golf as far as the
amateur circuit, you know, like the North South and the Trans
and tournaments like that, the amateur.

Q. Did you ever analyze why you haven't won an Open or kick
yourself and say, "I should have won by now I am good enough?"

DALE EGGELING: You know, I think it is-- I don't -- I think it
is because I really haven't wanted it bad enough up until a couple
of years ago. I am very -- I think I know myself more now. I want
to play golf now. Before it was like I was out there playing,
but yet now I want -- I-- myself, I want to play. You have to
believe in yourself and I think I am really starting to believe
in myself a little bit better. My husband has really been working
hard on that with me. So, you know, it takes some of us longer
to grow up.

LES UNGER: Continued good luck. Thank you.

DALE EGGELING: Thank you.

End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT