UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 1, 2018
Mark Whipple
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Boston College - 55, UMass - 21.
MARK WHIPPLE: That was a big play, the 4th and 1 was a big play that we didn't get by a few inches.  They capitalized.  So the ball bounced good for them.  Sometimes that happens.  When you build up in a punter's head, he can still get the 40-yarder -- hey, you have those days.  We battled, but we weren't good enough today.  They were better.
Q. Were you surprised by their tempo a little bit out of the gate?
MARK WHIPPLE: I think we worked it.  We worked it, but probably their size, and they've got a good offensive line.  We made a mistake and Dillon fell forward.  The second -- we held them in the second series.  And then we had the PI, which kind of hurt.  But they gave us a PI, so I wasn't anything on Tyler.  The busted coverage is what really hurt us.  Coach Pinkham and I talked a little bit, some confusion, a little doubt set in, and we've just got to get better, got to learn from it and get back on the tape on Monday morning.
Q. You've got to have a short memory in this kind of thing.  You've been in these situations both sides before --
MARK WHIPPLE: What I said from the beginning, you've got to learn how to win and move forward, and too many pats on the back -- at least I don't have to worry about that part this week.  Get our guys going -- I know this team.  I've been around them.  This game wasn't going to make the season or break it, but how you handle it will, so I'm excited to get these guys ready to go for a hard game down in Georgia, which is always tough to play.  So we're on the road, and we didn't handle the road very well today, and we've got to get ready for it.
Q. Offensively what kind of gave you guys some issues?
MARK WHIPPLE: We just didn't execute, dropped some balls, had some sight adjustments that we missed that we'd worked on.  It wasn't anything -- I thought a big play -- they blew the coverage, they let Izzy run down the middle of the field, Andrew didn't see it in time on a corner blitz, which is what we talked about, which would have put it 14-14.  But that happened, so you've got to get better.  They were blitzing a little bit faster than what we were getting on the scout.  So I thought that was a really big play.  And they turn around and it's 21-7 and they had things going their way.
That was my biggest fear was that they were -- I knew they were going to run the ball pretty well.  We didn't really give up a big run, but giving up a big pass was what really kind of broke us down I thought, and we've got to get better that way, communication.
Q. Were there talks about giving Ross a series toward the end of the first half?
MARK WHIPPLE: No, no.  Kind of what we do.  Just that way.  Kyle was going, so -- it was at the end we took a shot there, and I have to look at it on tape.  Lukas Denis is a really good player, made a great play to end the half.  I said, hey -- I looked at it with 10 seconds, whatever it was, take a shot, and turned out good for them.  As I said, the ball bounced pretty good for them today.  And they're good enough, they didn't need any help.  We needed a little help and didn't get it.  And we didn't help ourselves.  As I said, you learn a lot about yourself in these kind of things.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT