CHEEZ-IT BOWL: OKLAHOMA STATE VS MIAMI
December 29, 2020
N'Kosi Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Oklahoma State Cowboys 37, Miami Hurricanes 34
 Q. Just to start, what was your thought process when you saw D'Eriq went down and knowing you had to enter into this game?
 N'KOSI PERRY:   I was ready right away because I was keeping up with every single play of the game and right away when it happened, I knew I was about to go in, and I was ready.
 Q. You've been here with this program for a couple years now.  It's been a steady growth for you guys.  What does a result like this do and how does it impact the next step you guys want to take forward as a team?
 N'KOSI PERRY:   I think we took a positive step tonight, even though we didn't come out with the W.  The whole game, the team, was acting like we had the lead the entire game.
 I think we're really building something here and it's going to be really great for us next season.
 Q. You played your tail off when you came into the game.  What were some areas of improvement you want to see from the rest of the team going forward?
 N'KOSI PERRY:   I feel like we need to improve in all areas, and with my play, I definitely want to improve on my accuracy and things like that.  I feel like we need improvement in all areas of our game.  We are not bad, at all, but if we improved, I feel like we could be unbeatable.
 Q. You obviously, when D'Eriq comes in, there were probably a lot of times where you could have thought you wanted to transfer, do something like that.  Did those thoughts ever cross your mind over the last 12 months here and what made you want to stick it out?
 N'KOSI PERRY:   I'm committed to this school, and right now is not the time to be talking about transferring or anything like that.  I'm all about the U, and I just want to get back with my time right now.
 Q. You were able to keep the offense going pretty easily and moving down the field.  They were dropping passes and you kept going to them.  How do you keep encouraging them when they are going through situations like that?
 N'KOSI PERRY:   That's what I told them, I'm going to keep coming back to you.  I trust all my receivers.  And I just tried to give them the confidence that they need to go out and make a play.
 We didn't make them all tonight, but I still trust my receivers, if I had to make a throw right now, I would throw it again.
 Q. Did D'Eriq say anything after he came back from the locker room?  Did he say anything to get you motivated to play?
 N'KOSI PERRY:   I was already motivated before the game to the time I got in the game.  When King came back out, he was giving me words of encouragement, "Keep the guys going,"  stuff like that.  Telling me I'm doing a great job here and there, even if I'm not.  Just positive energy and that's what the whole sideline had all night.
 Q. Having a year learning the system, it seems to suit you.  What do you like about it and what do you think about the current offense suits you?
 N'KOSI PERRY:   To be honest I love this offense.  I love Coach Lashlee.  As an offensive coordinator, I feel he's one of the best, one of the best I've ever been coached by and that's pretty much it.  I love it.  I love everything about it.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT