MLB WORLD SERIES: YANKEES v BRAVES
October 24, 1999
Brian Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Does it pump you up to come in and see the line-up different today? Are you shaken
up a little bit?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: Well, it kind of surprised me, you know, it's unusual for a World Series
to change the line-up so dramatically. I know the guys who aren't playing were pretty
surprised. But I guess Bob's trying to mix it up, make things happen. We only got one or
two hits yesterday, so we need to get something going. Not to say it was an easy pitcher
yesterday to get a lot of hits off, but we'll see what happens. 
 
Q. That could go back some to the hitting against the Mets in the last game, couldn't
it?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: It can. We found a way to win against the Mets, you know, a couple games
we didn't hit the ball well, but we still won. I think once you get in the post-season,
you don't find too many hits any way. It's great pitching matchups, great fielding. You
don't find too many mistakes made in the post-season. If you get five, six hits a game,
you're doing really well. 
 
Q. Are players, generally speaking, not specifically the Braves, skeptical of the
impact that shakeup of line-ups can have or do you just figure, "oh, what the
heck?"
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: That's exactly what we say:, "what the heck." We all got to go
out there and give 110 percent. You know sometimes a line-up shakeup is good. I sure hope
it's good tonight. But I mean you don't worry about those things. I mean that's going to
happen. You got to go out there and do your job. And those guys who are sitting out, they
got to be ready to play. And sometimes it works out. 
 
Q. Is that a -- are you concerned about that being a morale thing, when you're talking
about a drastic change? Is that going to have a bad impact on the morale?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: I don't think so. We've done it before in the normal season, give guys
rest, trying different things to break up the monotony, I guess. But I don't think it's
going to take anything away from our moral, we all have one goal and that's to win a ring.
We're all fighting for the same thing. 
 
Q. Is there a way to explain how when you face a guy like El Duque or a guy like Cone
who's throwing from so many different arm angles and seemingly making up pitches as they
go along, how that complicates the thought process at the plate for hitters?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: Well, I mean you really have to be patient against those guys, you know.
I think when you see a lot of different arm angles, it makes players -- hitters jump. You
find yourself out in front a lot. But I think the important thing is just trying to be
focused on standing back and seeing the ball first before you move. That's why they're so
effective, El Duque and David Cone, because they give you so many arm angles that it
really kind of knocks your game off. You're not as patient as you should be. So I mean
that is a -- I think that's what helped Mo out there at the end. Changing his arm angle,
livening up his ball a little bit. It definitely helps and makes it difficult for the
hitter to sit back and be patient. 
 
Q. From what you've seen and what you've heard in the reports, how well is Mariano
Rivera throwing and is there any way to get to him?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: He blew me away last night. He's a great closer. One way to beat him is
to not let him get into the ball game. And I mean he's a dominant closer. When he gets on
the field, he's very confident and he comes right at you. You hit him, you hit him. If you
don't, you don't. That's his attitude. And I don't like to face him and I'm quite sure my
teammates don't like to face him. So hopefully we'll get a big lead and keep him out of
the game. 
 
Q. Is there anything a hitter can do at this point in order to, you know, if he's not
hitting, like look at videotapes, extra batting practice? At this point do you just go out
and do it, this late in the season?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: I tell you, at this point, you should know how to approach any pitcher. I
mean sometimes you want to get in the video room just to see how this guy pitched the last
time so you can have an idea going up to the plate. But the bottom line, the key is just
being patient, seeing the ball first before you make any movement or react. So at this
point, I don't think films or anything is going to help you. 
 
Q. Is there any advantage to you guys being able to pitch them back-to-back?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: I think so. I mean, you know, El Duque is very tough. He comes at so many
different angles. David Cone is similar to that. I think it's to our advantage to be able
to perform. This guy's going to come with the same arm angle. We saw it yesterday, so now
we should be kind of used to it and hopefully we can be effective against David Cone. 
 
Q. You guys were down in the series to Houston. You only played one game against the
Yankees so far, but does being behind in a series with the Yankees have a different feel
than being down with the Astros?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: No. It's the best out of seven. We've been down before, but we're
confident in our talent here. Believe me, yesterday we had all the opportunities in the
world to win a ball game. So we were right there with the Yankees. A couple of mistakes
cost us. Yesterday's came could have went either way. Our confidence is not down. We know
we can come back being down 1-0. 
 
Q. You got hit at bat, how does that feel?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: It was feeling okay until the cold weather hit. I mean it gets stiff, you
know, in this cold weather. I know last night it started getting stiff as the game went
on. Because, I mean, the weather just started getting colder and colder as the night went
on. 
 
Q. Was it your left hand?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: Yes. No, it was my right wrist, I'm sorry. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT