NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: METS v BRAVES
October 11, 1999
Brian Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Hitting behind McGwire last year, how did that prepare you for hitting behind
Chipper?

BRIAN JORDAN: I don't think it prepared me for hitting behind Chipper. Hitting behind
Mark last year was a lot of pressure. You had to perform or you would get booed out of
stadium. Things worked out for me, and Mark, of course, broke the record. Hitting behind
Chipper is no pressure at all. This guy, he can hit home runs; he can hit singles; steal
second; get in scoring position, where that's a different position from last year. When
Mark walks, he's going to be at first base, and you have to hit a home run or possible
triple to score. So this is why I probably have 115 RBI's this year, because Chipper can
run.

Q. How is your hand, Brian?

BRIAN JORDAN: My hand is a lot better. I've been working hard with Dr. Chandler, my
trainers, Jeff and Dave and Bob Kearse, and he's been traveling with me throughout the
playoffs. So they're keeping me prepared, and I'm just going out there and playing my
normal game.

Q. How close did you come to thinking you may not finish the season?

BRIAN JORDAN: I'd say early September, I thought my season was going to be over. I was
struggling pretty bad. I was in a lot of pain and I was starting to lack a little
confidence, and when that happens, you can pack your bags. So thank goodness that Dr.
Chandler and the trainers and Bob Kearse got together and figured something out to help
me. Because it's definitely helped me, because I've returned to my normal self at the end
of the year.

Q. Is it something new, Brian?

BRIAN JORDAN: Yes. Early, I tried shots,, Cortisone shots, and I probably had about
five or six Cortisone shots in my wrist and hand. But things just didn't work out. The
pain was still there, and it was affecting my swing. And I finally, Bob Kearse and Dr.
Chandler got together, and they used a cross-friction method, which basically puts me in
more pain than I'm already in, to kind of relax you and lessen the pain, come game time.
And it seems to work. Actually, my wrist is feeling a lot better. I think Bob said my
joint was so jammed up in my wrist, and that was the reason for all my pain. So what he
did was actually pull it and reach in and just put me in a lot of pain, but actually it
loosened up my joint and now I can swing.

Q. Considering all that, Brian, does it make a week like last week more gratifying for
you?

BRIAN JORDAN: It does, definitely. There's nothing more I wanted than to perform in big
games. And we're in big games, now that we're in the postseason. To be able to come
through for the team is a great joy for me.

Q. Can you explain exactly what Bob did to help you with your hand?

BRIAN JORDAN: You just missed that. He used a cross-friction method on my hand, which
basically puts you in more pain than you're already in to actually lessen the pain come
game time. And that was just pulling my joint apart and really loosening it up and digging
in there to where I was in a lot of pain. And when the game began, I didn't even think
about it.

Q. Compare the crowd here in Atlanta, compared to the crowd you may face in New York? 

BRIAN JORDAN: That's a no-brainer. I mean it's pretty tough in New York. We just played
there two weeks ago, and it was playoff environment then. They were fighting for -- trying
to make it to the playoffs. And the fans are awesome, if you're the home team. They're
harder when -- they love the game of baseball, and they cheer for their Mets and expect
them to win. They're going to be all over us, and we expect it.

Q. Can you give your impression of Atlanta fans, Brian?

BRIAN JORDAN: I tell you, it's surprising. I've been spoiled because I've been in St.
Louis for the last six years, and they're true baseball fans. Win, lose or draw, they're
always there. And to come here and to be in a postseason and don't have a sellout crowd is
surprising. I know they are used to the Atlanta Braves winning, but not winning the big
game one time. Any way you want to help your team, I think you should be here. I'm
disappointed. Like I said, I'm spoiled from St. Louis.

Q. Brian, from a hitter's perspective, what's it like facing John Rocker?

BRIAN JORDAN: It's tough, especially being a right-hand hitter, and the guy is throwing
almost a hundred miles an hour. I compare him to Billy Wagner, which I hate to face this
guy. I haven't got a hit yet. But he comes right at you. He has a great slider, curve
ball, and he's pretty deadly.

Q. How do you think Chipper will handle all the attention and the lightning rod he's
become in the next round here?

BRIAN JORDAN: Chipper has been calm, cool and collected all year long. I don't think
he's going to change. Words are words. You can't change them. You've just got to go out
there and play your game, and let your actions speak. I don't think Chipper is going to
retaliate anyway about the comments. Believe me, they're going to come at Chipper, and
he's going to come through for us.

Q. Is there a rivalry, maybe a dislike for the Mets?

BRIAN JORDAN: I could say so, just that New York City thing. I mean, whenever you go
there and the fans are going to try to rattle you and get all over you; so you eventually
say you can't stand New York. You've just got to go up there with that attitude and be
aggressive, play your game and try to win. The manager is the manager. I played under
LaRussa, he's similar to LaRussa, those guys like to control the game. That's their bottom
line. That's their style of baseball, and that's the way it is. I have nothing against
Valentine personally, but I enjoy beating him.

Q. How does your experience in the NFL help you in the playoffs, and has it helped you
in the performance?

BRIAN JORDAN: I had one experience in the playoff game with the Falcons. I think it's
that same environment. I get really pumped up and really excited. I'm more excited on the
road than at home, because you get all the rattling from the fans, and all the bad mouth
and bad words thrown at you out there. It kind of pumps me up even more, so I enjoy it.

Q. Can you talk about how close you came to signing with the Mets, the last free agent
season?

BRIAN JORDAN: I'd say they were my third choice. I like Phillips, the general manager
there; they entertained me well. And I knew that he wanted to win, and I knew he was going
to go out and get the guys in there to win. And he's done a great job, and I give him a
lot of credit. I was fairly close to signing with the Mets.

Q. Who was your second choice?

BRIAN JORDAN: You know, the Braves and the Yankees were right there, neck and neck.

Q. Can you talk about the influence of Don Baylor?

BRIAN JORDAN: Don has been a tremendous help to me and all the players on the team. For
one, he has an interest in the game, he has an interest in what you do at bat. He's not
afraid to speak his mind and let you know what he thinks, and he's always in the cage,
always ready to work with you. I don't care what time of day it is. And to me, that's
helped us out a lot all year.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT