NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 8, 1999
Bobby Cox
Brian Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How do you strive so good under pressure?

BRIAN JORDAN: This is what I play for and this is what I strive on. I thrive on the
pressure. They just added to the challenge, you know, last night when they were getting
interviewed in ESPN and not going to let Chipper beat them. I mean, I looked at it as a
challenge, and I have a lot of success in those situations.

Q. Did you think they would walk you with the bases loaded?

BRIAN JORDAN: I did. When he threw the strike, he made the count one to one. I said
let's change the approach and I was fortunate enough to hit the ball down right field
line.

Q. Brian, are you offended by that? Are you going series by series?

BRIAN JORDAN: I think any player would get some type of, you know, offense by comments
that they make, and, you know, like I said, I thrive under pressure. I love it. I kind of
like when they do say they are going to pitch around Chipper to me. I'm just happy Bobby
put me back in the fourth position.

Q. What was the pitch you hit for a home-run, Brian?

BRIAN JORDAN: It was a slider. He's probably trying to get it down low at my feet and
get me to catch a bad pitch, but he left it up and I was looking to be aggressive in that
situation and I was fortunate enough to hit it out.

Q. Bobby, can you comment on the play that Walt Weiss made?

BOBBY COX: It was incredible, as the entire ballgame was to me. It was a great play and
I think I patted him on the back about eight times already after the game. Just a
tremendous play be able to get up and force the guy. It was a game ending. Even if he
doesn't make the play, game is over.

Q. Bobby, have you ever played a better game than this?

BOBBY COX: I told Brian on the way in, if we don't play the rest of our lives, we would
never play a better game like this. We came from behind, got it tied up. They had a bases
loaded, no outs. We had the bases loaded here and there and nobody could score and there
was good plays in there and, you know, between our pitching staff and Brian and Walt's
play, that was, you know, an unbelievable ballgame. I don't think we will ever be in
another one like that.

Q. Brian, do you want to take the same question? Have you ever played in a game --

BRIAN JORDAN: No, and I hope no time soon. This is a great game. I mean, both teams. I
give a lot of credit to those guys. I mean it was just a battle. We were fortunate enough
to come away with the victory.

Q. Bobby, can you discuss using two of your eight starters today in relief?

BOBBY COX: They were all in relief today, even John Smoltz; but since we used Maddux
for one hitter, couldn't use John because we had to have somebody starting tomorrow. If I
had used Smoltz first, Maddux would have started tomorrow and we wouldn't have been able
to use Kevin today either. Now we have a real rested pitcher and Smoltz. It was just a few
pitches for Maddux and he was very capable of that and I told him to be on standby today
for a hitter or two and Millwood on standby for a hitter or two an inning and Smoltz also
was available so. We were throwing out the entire package and, you know, it went our way.

Q. Do you know why those pitchers managed to strike (inaudible)?

BOBBY COX: From the bench it looked like the pitch was halfway decent. From the bench
it looked like he went halfway around. I haven't had the luxury of looking at a replay.
Maddux was great. I thought he did a great job but we got in trouble when Biggio got on.
He's a base stealer and that's the only reason really when they pitch hit I would have let
Maddux in, if Biggio wasn't on base. We tried to stop the guy with (inaudible) -- he shuts
it down. That's why he pitched the (inaudible).

Q. Can you talk about the fifth and Bagwell?

BOBBY COX: The success that Jeff had, I can't really tell you. We make good pitches and
we tried not to give him very much to hit at, but that holds true all year long. If you
look at those little books they give us as managers, you will see a has a lot of bench
hits. We are trying to be careful, but he's such a good hitter. He can hit sometimes your
pitch and go ahead and hit it out of the ballpark. He had some hacks today. You could feel
the wind over there and they went straight back. He just missed them. We respect he and
Biggio an awful lot; in fact, that entire team can hit the ball. They are all tough.

Q. Were you surprised not to walk Brian?

BOBBY COX: There's always reasons for things so... Trying to make him chase something
bad, I would imagine.

Q. Did you consider playing the middle people back some in that situation, Bobby?

BOBBY COX: I did think of that, absolutely. Eusebio, he can run down the line decently.
I know he has a bad knee but the thing was, the outfield and the infield back -- I've done
that before. I just didn't feel like it today. I just didn't feel comfortable doing it.
I've done it lots of times in the past, in the Minor leagues especially. With real slow
runners at the plate, we could always turn to that. If the balance is not in, (inaudible)
-- I was just telling our coach we caught a break. I said I almost played him back for
that very reason. If they weren't in, the ball would have shot by me. He had no chance to
catch it.

Q. What do you feel like your chances are tomorrow, Bobby?

BOBBY COX: Smoltz is really throwing the ball well, extremely well. Those 95 and 96
this Millwood threw up was the hardest he's ever thrown, and Smoltz has been throwing that
hard for over a month. He rides a real hard cutter in lefties now. He has a great
change-up. He's really throwing good and I expect him to throw as well tomorrow.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT