NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 6, 1999
Brian Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Brian, I talked to you yesterday, you said you were going to do some damage. Seemed
to have worked?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: Yes, I accept challenge when the other team said that they are going to
pitch around Chipper; I take that as an insult, and I finally got the opportunity today to
do it. They walked Chipper to get to me. I hurt them. 
 
Q. How does the hand feel?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: I mean I am not 100%, but I feel good enough to go out there and play
every day. Thanks to Dr. Chandler, the team doctor for Atlanta and Bob, my personal
trainer. They have been doing some things that kind of relieves the pain a little bit.
During the games I don't even feel it. I go out there and just play aggressive, head first
slides, dives, you know, whatever is going to happen is going to happen. 
 
Q. Do you feel better mentally hitting out of the clean-up spot rather than the fifth
spot?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: It makes me no difference. I am at my best when I got runners in scoring
position, so whether I am hitting fourth or fifth, if you get some guys out there for me
hopefully I am going to come through for you. I have been hitting clean-up all season long
and I told the reporters when Bobby moved me to fifth, I said I would earn my way back up
to fourth. Thank goodness that happened. 
 
Q. How difficult is it to hit when you have a four o'clock start as opposed to a 1 or 7
o'clock start?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: It is definitely tough and to the pitcher's advantage, because you have
got the shadow and it is tough to see the ball coming out of the pitcher's hand when you
got that shadow. I would not like to play anymore 4 o'clock games here in Atlanta, but
whatever happens is going to happen. 
 
Q. With all the Cy Youngs of the other members of the staff, does the team consider
Kevin as much an ace as the others?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: Definitely, he is probably the top pitcher out of all the Cy Youngs this
year. He has been great for us. He has been big. He is the guy who will kind of carry the
load in the first half when the other guys are struggling. I mean, today -- this is why he
is being considered as a Cy Young, simply because he is a dominant pitcher. He goes out
there with confidence and he really showed that today. We needed a big game out of our
pitcher and he came up with a big game for us. 
 
Q. Would you comment on how much fun it is for you to be in the post-season?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: This is why I signed to come here. This team, year after year, is in the
post-season. They have a great organization and I am happy to be back in the post-season.
This is my second, and you know, with the injuries and all, this is it, either you are
going to win or you are going home. The way I see it, I am going to lay it on the line. I
am going to put my body out there and may the best man win. Hopefully we will come out on
top and I won't get injured. 
 
Q. How is your back?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: My back is fine. I stretch and keep it loose. 
 
Q. Do you think the Braves not just evened the series up today but got more momentum?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: I think so. They beat us yesterday, so that built a lot of confidence.
Now they are sitting over there saying that we can beat the Braves and to go back for a
great game today and we scored some runs. Now you put that thought back in their head,
well maybe, maybe not. So it gives us confidence going into Houston. I mean, momentum has
switched. 
 
Q. Do you take it personal when they say they are going to pitch around Chipper?
 
 BRIAN JORDAN: It is a slap in the face. That is the way I look at it. I stand up to any
challenge. That is exactly what it is, a challenge. 
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT