CURTIS CUP
June 9, 2018
Virginia Derby Grimes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Even when it was ugly, your team still managed to get it done.
VIRGINIA DERBY GRIMES: Yeah, at lunchtime, you're all sitting -- they were raring to go at lunchtime.  You know, that was a good feeling to see that, have them come in from the morning matches and just ready to get back out there.
Q. Even though they swept the morning, they weren't satisfied?
VIRGINIA DERBY GRIMES: They weren't satisfied.  They were ready to go.
Q. I was impressed with your last two because there was one birdie in that match and yet they grinded and stayed on top of it.  What are your thoughts on that?  How do you keep them focused when --
VIRGINIA DERBY GRIMES: I just keep reminding them, you know, one shot at a time, just stay focused, stay in the moment and be patient on the greens.  I've preached that all week.  Out here, that's what it's all about.
Q. So Gillman is 4-0; she seems to like this match play format.  What are you most impressed with about Kristen?  She's played a lot of golf.
VIRGINIA DERBY GRIMES: Yeah, she has.  It's amazing since they've played in since their conference tournaments, about the third week of April.  It's just been continuous week after week after week after week.  You know, all the girls are college players, of course except for Lucy, but their conditioning programs are really good, where they all are, and that's what's kept them going.
Q. Did you ever say, do you have the energy to keep going, Kristen?
VIRGINIA DERBY GRIMES: No, no.  Nobody has said I'm tired and I don't want to play.  They've just all been ready to go if they got called.
Q. How does Lucy fit in with the college girls?
VIRGINIA DERBY GRIMES: She's fit in good.  You know, we asked two junior players to the practice session in December, and I thought it was a great idea because it gave me the opportunity to put those players in with the college players to see how they mixed, and got a lot out of that session, and it was fine.  It was good.
Q. How about pairing her with Sophia today?
VIRGINIA DERBY GRIMES: Yeah, you know, they've been practicing this format a lot together.  Those pairings really came together a month ago when we were up here.  I sort of had them that way all along, but until we played it enough, it felt comfortable, so never thought about changing anybody.  It just blended together.  I don't know what else to say.  They just fit each other.
Q. You had a lot of different pairings.  You didn't repeat until this afternoon.
VIRGINIA DERBY GRIMES: Yeah, no.  Again, we mixed and matched, and we threw everybody -- I'm sure their brains were -- I don't know, they never said anything, but we wanted everybody to get to know each other and get a feel for each other because I feel like that's part of the experience and the team bonding.  And we sent out a questionnaire to each one of them and just got some feedback from that that was surprising, the kind of feedback.
Q. In what way?
VIRGINIA DERBY GRIMES: Oh, just for instance, Lucy and Jennifer played together yesterday.  Well, they both on their questionnaire liked playing with each other.  In a four-ball format, that's okay.  That came from that session in December.
Q. So you guys have tomorrow -- you're up a ton.  What do you tell them going into tomorrow?  I don't know, does it matter if you even stay motivated?
VIRGINIA DERBY GRIMES: Oh, I think we're going to stay motivated because it's not over until it's over.  I'm just going to tell them to go out and play their game and enjoy the walk and stay patient on the greens.
Q. Same message?
VIRGINIA DERBY GRIMES: Same message.  We're not going to change anything.
Q. Why would you?
VIRGINIA DERBY GRIMES: Why would we?  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT