BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2018
Katelynn Flaherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Michigan - 77, Penn State - 48   
 Q.  How does it feel to get your first tournament win?  
KATELYNN FLAHERTY: Yeah, I mean, it's awesome.  This team has worked so hard all year, so I think it's only right that we come out on the victory side, and I think I'm just proud of everyone played tonight and how successful we were.   
 Q.  Hallie just said that the tournament stage kind of adds an extra level of excitement.  Would you say the same?  
KATELYNN FLAHERTY: Oh, yeah, definitely.  You could see it in how we played today.  It's win or go home, especially in March, and we really need these wins, and I think we came out with a lot of energy tonight.   
 Q.  What do you need to do moving forward, especially with how late it is, getting rest and all that?  
KATELYNN FLAHERTY: Yeah, just get treatment right now, get in the cold tubs, take care of our body, and just tomorrow wake up with the mindset that Nebraska is a great team, and I think it'll be a great game for us.   
 Q.  Can you tell me a little bit about the cohesiveness or the chemistry on this team?  
KATELYNN FLAHERTY: Yeah, I mean, I think we're coming together.  Our chemistry is building.  With the bye week we've had, we've had a lot of days to practice and focus on ourselves, so I think our offensive execution is getting a lot better.   
 Q.  What would you say is one thing you like most about playing in the Big Ten Tournament?  
KATELYNN FLAHERTY: I think just the match-ups.  There's great players here and the atmosphere is awesome, but like I said, to be able to play against the best players in the country is really fun for me.   
 Q.  What would you say about the senior class?  
KATELYNN FLAHERTY: I mean, I think we've come a long way, especially since freshman year.  I think we're hard-working, we're experienced now, we've played in lot of games, and I think that helps us, especially in these situations, and I think we're pretty good leaders, especially Jill has a lot of energy and a lot of people look up to her on our team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT