WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL B: MEXICO CITY
March 8, 2009
Vinny Castilla
Jorge Vazquez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about the consistency that you have, the trust. What can you do? Your fan base came, and baseball in Mexico has to increase, has to raise their quality. Your fan base, the fan base in Mexico is trusting in its team that representing Mexico, not only here but in Major Leagues. Vinny, it's going to be very important for you to talk to your people. You've got to raise their playing level, power-wise, harmony-wise.   
 VINNY CASTILLA: In the team that's a very important part. Unfortunately in the games like today where we can't be looking for people to blame. We're still fighting. We haven't lost anything, and I repeat, unity is our biggest asset. Of course the boys are all let down, as are the fans. No one expected this result, these outcomes. Things happen like this in baseball. No one expected this. Tomorrow is a new day, so we can't do anything about today's game anymore.   
 So we'll do our best tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Vinny, will Mexico go on to the next round?  
 VINNY CASTILLA: It's our main goal. We want to go on to the next round. We haven't lost anything. We shall continue to fight.   
 I repeat, these are things that happen in games, in baseball. The guys didn't expect this. They launched all sorts of flyballs. But we will continue, we're still united and we will fight again tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your game, the home run that you hit?   
 JORGE VÁZQUEZ: Like Vinicio said, we're not looking for the guilty parties here. We need to learn. We were all trusting at the beginning. We know we have a good team. We have a great base. We only have to begin, or continue playing and hopefully things will improve.   
  
  Q. (No microphone).  
 VINNY CASTILLA: The team was playing good. We hit, we pitched, we caught, we did things properly. Things like this happen in baseball. We've got to put it in the past and start again tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Vinny, there was an excess in trust, overconfidence?  
 VINNY CASTILLA: It wasn't that we're in excess trust. We're in Mexico. We wanted to root for the team. We wanted to give the fan base and everyone happiness so we could run out into the field, and unfortunately just the contrary happened. Nobody expected this.   
 Like I said, we can't do anything about this game anymore. The only thing that remains for us to do is to learn.  
  
  Q. In the past few years, Mexico has shown that you can win, but now what happens? For example, you will win against Cuba but you will lose against Panama, and the same things happens with Olympics. You win against the U.S. and lose against Panama, so you don't go to the Olympics. It seems to me sometimes it's more difficult the teams that are not the big teams. What's happening?  
 VINNY CASTILLA: In these small series, anything can happen. Anyone can win this game. It's very different. If you are playing a full season, 162, but six games, well, anything can happen, and that's what happened; anything.   
  
  Q. (No microphone).  
 VINNY CASTILLA: No, there wasn't an excess of trust. Those guys, they walked out into the field wearing their hearts in their hands. We pitched, we had a couple strikes, they just didn't miss them.   
 I repeat, we can't do anything about what's happened. We have to forget it, and we have to proceed to tomorrow with a better mindset to work against South Africa.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT