CAREERBUILDER CHALLENGE
January 18, 2018
Wesley Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I thought for a moment you hit it in the water at the par-5.
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, it was a little wobbly really from the start, but was able to mask it a little bit on some of the par-5s and some of the shorter holes, just getting a wedge in my hand.  But, yeah, I struggled a little bit, going to go get some work on the range and hopefully be a little more sharp tomorrow.
Q. You surprised all of us at the Sony Open, driver not in the bag, not going to put it even in the bag until Honda.  Then I see the new Rogue in the bag and I guess you hit it a half dozen times or so.
WESLEY BRYAN: You know, I hit it a few times, I had some good ones, built up a little bit of confidence yesterday testing it out, so, yes, could I have done a little better at the Sony with a driver in the bag?  Maybe.  I don't know.  But it just needed to get side lined for a little bit.
Q. It seems surprising that an athlete like yourself, we have all seen the trick shots, tremendous shape, tremendous belief, would lose confidence in the driver?
WESLEY BRYAN: Man, when you go at it as hard as I do -- that's a joke -- I mean, golf is hard, I mean it's really hard.  Sometimes I do feel like it's easier when the ball's thrown in the air at me to hit it straight.  But it's a process, no one's going to be able to hit it in the fairway all the time, we want to, but when you lose a little bit of confidence this game can beat you down really quick and I got beat down really quick in Kapalua and decided to make a rash decision last week at Sony, but we're trending in the right direction, so hopefully be sharp this spring.
Q. It is a hard game and 7-under par is a good score.  Well done.
WESLEY BRYAN: Thank you, sir.
Q. Talk to me about the course conditions out there today.  Obviously you expect above average weather and conditions when you come out here, but seemed like it was ideal.
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, it's perfect.  When we got out here my wife was amazed that they had all this fake grass everywhere, just because she didn't know it could be this pristine.  So, yeah, the course conditions are great, the greens are a little bit firmer than they were last year, which is nice and they're rolling good, they're good speed for you to be aggressive and I think there's going to be some low numbers, as long as the weather stays like this.  There wasn't an ounce of wind hardly for the most part out there today, so hopefully keep piling on birdies.
Q. Do you feel like you went low enough today?
WESLEY BRYAN: I got off to a good start, obviously I threw up on myself a little bit coming in, didn't finish it off very well, got a little bit loose so, hopefully there's some birdie opportunities out there the next few days and we can get in contention.
Q. Is the mentality for playing this tournament different than almost any other, seems like your foot's always on the pedal, trying to be aggressive?
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, this course obviously it's a little more open for you to put the foot on the gas at times, so I mean every single week, every single hole you start on the tee box and try and figure out what's the best way to make a birdie on this hole.  It's the same mentality, it's just some courses are a little more conducive to birdies than others and this happens to be one of the weeks where you can kind of get after it a little bit.
Q. Is there anything in particular that was clicking in your game today?
WESLEY BRYAN: Nothing really, I mean I hit a couple good wedge shots, a couple good chips, a couple good putts and holed one out, which that's good to get two on one hole.  But nothing felt super sharp.  I'm going to go over there on the range and try and iron out some of the kinks.
Q. Tell me about that hole out, distance, club and just --
WESLEY BRYAN: I think we had 112 yards and landed it a step past and it took a hop up and spun back and disappeared.  So it was exhilarating.
Q. Some great numbers on the scorecard.  A 65, 7-under par.  Tell us about that from your point of view.
WESLEY BRYAN: Honestly, it wasn't the cleanest 65 you've ever seen in your life, got off to a little bit of a hot start and then kind of spewed a little bit coming in, but all in all still in the golf tournament, there's a lot of birdies to be made this week, so hopefully we can keep the foot on the pedal.
Q. One of the highlights the eagle there.  Tell us about that one.
WESLEY BRYAN: It started with a little pulled hybrid, I thought it might of was kind of going to catch the bunker and then it kicked to the right, got a very fortunate break, I think I had 112 to the hole and hit a nice juicy little 54 degree in there and it came spinning back in and we saw it disappear, a couple high-fives later went up there and got the ball out of the hole.  It's a nice way to end the 10th hole.
Q. You played five times in this wrap around season.  Made all the cuts.  But your best is 27th.  What do you need going forward from that?
WESLEY BRYAN: Well I only made one of the cuts, actually, because I think four of them didn't even have a cut.  I mean, I've been struggling a little bit off the tee, not been super sharp, and hopefully we can get all that ironed out.  Like I said, this is a good start, hopefully we can keep this momentum going forward.
Q. Let's look at your win.
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, let's look at it.
Q. Obviously this was momentous for you, not just because it was your first PGA TOUR title, but also winning in that part of the world.
WESLEY BRYAN: Right, being the first South Carolina native to win, golly, that's pretty cool.  Just to be able to win in my home state was really, really special and knowing that it punched my ticket to the Masters and opened up a lot of doors for me, it was really, really cool and I can't wait to get back there and defend.
Q. You live in the Augusta area, don't you?
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, I live about two and a half, three miles from the gate, so looking forward to sleeping in my own bed that week and hopefully contending for a Green Jacket.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT