JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2017
Wesley Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Made your debut here a year ago.
WESLEY BRYAN: Yep.
Q. Fond memories.  Must love the golf course.
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, it's one of those golf courses that really fights my eye.  It's a course coming back to now I actually have a little confidence level.  It's a course that I know, whereas most weeks, at least any rookie year, it's been the first time seeing the golf courses.
It's nice getting back here and playing a familiar golf course and playing well.
Q. Just curious, with your success on the Web.com Tour, which is tour where you can't be afraid to go low, does that help you in a tournament like this where you got to make birdies right out of the gate?
WESLEY BRYAN: I mean, the birdies come.  You can't really force the issue out here.  It's playing soft.  The fairways are soft.  The greens are soft.  You can kind of take advantage of some flag sticks that would otherwise be tucked.
I mean, still got three more days.  Got to make a lot of birdies.
Q. Great iron play today.  Is there something you'll work on between now and tomorrow?
WESLEY BRYAN: Just going to do the same thing.  I'm not super reactionary when it comes to my practice.  I' stick to my routine and keep doing it.
Q. Got to be happy with an opening round of 66.  Irons were certainly good to you.  What did you like best about your play today?
WESLEY BRYAN: I got the ball in the fairway for the most part and was able to, when I had a wedge in my hand, hit it close and convert.
It's a golf course that can yield a lot of birdies, as history has it out here.  The next few days got to keep the foot on the gas pedal and keep going.
Q. You've played this course before.  What do you like about playing here?  How does it suit you?
WESLEY BRYAN: It's nice having really good bent greens to putt on that are soft so you don't really have to worry about the ball rolling out or skipping through the green or anything.  You can just kind if take dead aim and hit it.
I like the way it looks off the tee as well.  You don't have to hit it overly far.  That kind of plays into my hand a little bit.
But like I said, there are still three more days of golf.
Q. Not to look too far ahead - you just said there are three more days of golf - but what went into your decision to play here this week?  Some decide to take a week off before a major.
WESLEY BRYAN: I love the golf course.  I love this event.  It was where I debuted as a member last year, and Clair does such a great job with this event.  It's one I can't really foresee myself missing any time in the near future.
Q. Another good start.  I know you enjoyed your time here last year; great start this year.
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah.  It's a golf course I'm comfortable at.  It's actually nice coming back to a golf course that I've seen before.
Being a rookie on tour, you don't really go to many courses that you're familiar with.  It's just nice being back here.
Q. Seems like conditions were fantastic for you guys, especially early on.
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, I think we had one gust of wind when I was on maybe my 15th hole for about two or three minutes.  Other than that, it was pretty calm.  The greens are really receptive and rolling well.  Just ideal scoring conditions out there.
Q. Since you're a veteran here at Deere Run, you know you have to stack these rounds now.  Thoughts and approach as you move on?
WESLEY BRYAN: The gas pedal is always on the right.  Got to keep you foot on it, especially around courses like this that historically yields a lot birdies and a lot of wedge opportunities.  Just got to keep going.
Q. Were you being more aggressive with your approach shots knowing the greens are more receptive because of the moisture?
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, I mean, there are times where you find yourself when where you kind of have to go at flags.  Just because of how soft the greens are, you got to take advantage when you have (indiscernible) clubs in your hand.
As good as the greens are, you have to convert once you get those opportunities it was a good day today, and looking forward to the next few.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT