TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2017
Wesley Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You had to recover from back-to-back bogeys.  What did it take to put together another 67?
WESLEY BRYAN: I had it rolling a little better today than I did yesterday.  I was hitting it a little better.  But the pins were not quite as accessible, and I think, all in all, today was a little bit better than yesterday.  But, I mean, on the weekend I'm going to have to do a little better than 67, 67.
Jordan left a lot out there today just to keep me close, I guess, for now.  But it's going to take a couple good numbers on the weekend to get it done here.
Q. What was it like playing when you have the current leader in the group with you.  Do you vibe off of that energy?
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, he was making a lot of putts out there yesterday and a little bit today.  We got on a little bit of a heater making some putts and that's fun.  You feed off of that.  But for the most part, you keep your head down.  You play your own game.  In the end, I guess, you add up the scores.
Q. First time playing in this tournament, how do you think your game complements the scores?
WESLEY BRYAN: I love this place.  It's going to be one of those stops that's going to be hard for me not to put on the schedule moving forward.  The golf course fits my eye.  Honestly, the crowd out there were amazing.  Just really looking forward to the weekend, and hopefully coming back here for many years to come.
Q. After last week the mental game that that took from the U.S. Open and transitioning to a course like this, total different set-up, total different mental game.  What's it like having to make that adjustment?
WESLEY BRYAN: Well, I had two extra days to forget about last week.  So I started getting ready for this on Saturday morning as opposed to coming straight in from here and trying to adjust.  But, I mean, last week it was tough.  But I mean it's going to go on record as probably the easiest U.S. Open of all times.  I didn't even get to see it in its full force.
But it's such a different ballgame.  When you got off the fairway out there, it was a penalty stroke more or less.  Out here you can at least play up near the green most times, and it's not quite as penalizing around the greens.  It makes it a little better scoring opportunity.
Q. Wes, let's talk about your round.  Almost identical to yesterday, the score.  I think you hit one less fairway or something, so pretty close.
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, I feel like today I hit the ball a little bit better than I did yesterday.  I made, honestly, just a couple more putts.  Then I just had a few really dumb mistakes out there and turned a 65 into a 67.  But, I mean, I'm in good position as of now going into the weekend, barring someone going crazy low, it's nice to have a chance coming into the weekend.
Q. You played so well at RBC Heritage.  Are there similarities here to Harbour Town?
WESLEY BRYAN: There are.  You have to work the ball both ways.  It doesn't demand a lot of length.  But, I mean, Jordan's hitting his driver great right now.  I'm just thinking, man, if I could be playing from where he's hitting some of these tee shots, it could play a lot of easier.  But it doesn't demand a lot of length.  You have to be really precise going into the greens, especially where they were tucking some of those flags.
There's a lot of similarities with workability, working it right and left and controlling your numbers from the fairway.
Q. Wesley, one of our featured pairings today.  How was your day out there?
WESLEY BRYAN: It was great.  I felt like I hit the ball pretty well and scored well for the most part.  Made a couple dumb mistakes, but at the end of the day you can't be too upset shooting a 67 and having a chance going into the weekend.
Q. How about playing in front -- there are a lot of people that show up, especially when you have Jordan running around.  Is that cool?  Would you like that?
WESLEY BRYAN: No, I mean, the fans were amazing the last couple days.  Getting to play with Jordan, he's playing some great golf.  You can feed off each other, you can feed off the crowd a little bit.  So the more people, the better.  Then when you do hit it off line, there are more people to trample down and create some better lies when you get off the fairway.
Q. With all the attention on Jordan, do you like being a bit under the radar there?  Certainly 36 solid holes for you.
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, you've got to keep your head down and play your own game.  You're not really paying attention to who the crowd's cheering for in particular or what Jordan's doing.  He's obviously one of the best players in the world, and I'm out there watching trying to figure out what I can do to get a little bit better.
We had a lot of fun the last couple days.  If he keeps it up, he's going to be tough to beat this week.
Q. What can you say about a player like him who doesn't have his best stuff, necessarily, but still leads the tournament?
WESLEY BRYAN: It's because he's good.  He putts really good.  I mean, he made a couple mistakes that were, I feel, uncharacteristic with wedges in his hands the last couple days.  I mean, you would think this weekend he was going to sharpen up and keep running out in front.  Hopefully, I can catch up.
Q. Talk about 15.  You've played it the last few days, does it not fit your eye?
WESLEY BRYAN: It's one of those greens that I'd much rather have a wedge in my hand there.  Driver brings those two bunkers into play.  Honestly, anytime I can get a wedge in my hand, I really, really like that.  So that part just kind of plays into my game, and it doesn't take on too much risk at all.
Q. When you say you have the eye for the tournament or this catches your eye or however you put it.  What goes into that?  What about it did that?
WESLEY BRYAN: I like the fact that you have to work the ball both ways off the tees here.  I like the fact that going into the greens you have to really pay attention to numbers that you're hitting it and you've got to be really precise with some of these pin locations they've been hiding the last couple of days.  So I like a course that doesn't demand a lot off the tee length-wise.  For the most part, this place really fits my eye and I like it and look forward to coming back.
Q. What was more, the bright colors or the Taco Bell belt?
WESLEY BRYAN: I think the pants got noticed a little bit more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT