THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 24, 2017
Wesley Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on the second round?
WESLEY BRYAN: Got off to a hot start.  Three quick birdies to get the round going, and then it kind of cooled off a little bit.  Made a couple really good par saves there in the middle of it, and nice to knock another birdie down on 18.  Any time you're in contention heading into the weekend, that's why you get up.  Glad to be in this position.
Q. What did you learn from last year, the John Deere?
WESLEY BRYAN: Guys are good out here.  They don't stop making birdies, so I've got to make sure I keep my foot on the gas pedal.
Q. Talk about a continuation from last week's play in L.A.  What is it like when you get on a run of momentum like that and you feel like the game might just be a little easier?
WESLEY BRYAN: I don't know if it feels easier, because the last couple weeks, two really tough golf courses.  It's not about the birdies you make.  It's really about some of the good par saves and making sure you keep the rounds intact.  Because I mean, they are tough golf courses.  You've just got to find a way to navigate around them.
Q. Looked like a good start, good finish.
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, made a nice birdie putt on No. 1.  Then just had a tap-in on the next couple holes.  Stumbled a little bit on the fourth.  Really, I hit a great wedge shot from the fairway, and just got a little too much breeze and down in the chipping area.
Other than that, there was a couple good par saves that I made, and a really good bogey save on 13 that kind of kept the momentum going forward instead of backwards.  Don't like making bogeys, but any time you find yourself a putter out of the trees for your second shot, it's not good.  Glad to settle for bogey there and glad to get one on 18, tied for the lead going into the weekend.
Q. What did your wins on the Web.com teach you last year?
WESLEY BRYAN: Just any time you have that experience in contention, whether it's on the Web.com Tour or PGA TOUR, you just keep building on it.  The more times you get in contention with a chance to win, the better off you are in the future.  Luckily I was able to knock it out three times last year, and I found that under pressure, I can still hit the shots.  Hopefully draw on that.
Q. What's been the difference from your start to the season to the last couple weeks?
WESLEY BRYAN: Really it starts off the tee, getting the ball in the fairway at a higher percentage.  Just being a little more sharp around the greens.
Q. Is there a fix --
WESLEY BRYAN: I don't know, if I knew how it fix it, I wouldn't find myself in that position.
Q. No trick shot for a putter under a tree.
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, that was an interesting spot.  I'll try to stay away from that tomorrow.
Q. When you got off to such a fast start, did you think you could just keep that going?
WESLEY BRYAN: I mean, it's a really tough golf course.  With the wind direction, those first few holes were pretty favorable, and then you've got to kind of hang on.  You hit a couple birdie chances on the back nine, and I wasn't able to take advantage of those.
Was able to knock it close with a wedge after opting away from a yardage I could have gotten there, but just took the high percentage route and was able to knock one down.
Q. You knew where you stood?
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, there's still a lot of holes to play.
Q. That if you birdied 18, you're tied?
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, I saw a leaderboard.  But that really doesn't weigh into any decisions being made until really the back nine on Sunday.
Q. Your first time last week, high on the leaderboard, what's that like in a tournament that was pretty much unwinnable at that point --
WESLEY BRYAN: Really you have a separate tournament.  It's not the same feeling as vying for a championship.  But it was really a tournament for second place.  I didn't finish it off like I wanted to there, and hopefully I'll learn from it and do better tomorrow and the next day.
Q. Do you still take something away from it?
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, I played solid for 72 holes out there.  Made a couple bogeys on the back nine, but it was because I was being aggressive and it didn't pay off.
Q. The shot through the trees -- with your history -- you're one back, what was your thought process in your head about whether to play safe and go lateral --
WESLEY BRYAN: I had a couple different options.  One was to go over it all.  I had a gap to do that.  But the best I could have done was hit just short of the green.  I could have chipped out sideways, but shoot, that was probably a harder shot than taking a low cut through the trees, and it paid off.  So definitely don't want to go over there and hit it again.
Q. What did you learn from the John Deere?
WESLEY BRYAN: Really what I learned is that everybody is really good out here, and there's going to be somebody out there making a lot of birdies, and you've just got to keep your foot on the gas pedal.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT