THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 23, 2017
Wesley Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you break down the effort here on Thursday?
WESLEY BRYAN: Just kind of picking up where I left off.  I was able to get the ball in the fairway with some of the tougher driving holes out there, and set up a couple good birdie opportunities.  It was really nice getting back on the East Coast on some bermudagreens that I grew up on as a kid.  Yeah, the putter was hot and able to roll a few in.
Q. Tied for fourth a week ago.  You reference sort of continuing that.  How much is it momentum, from Riviera to here, that you now feel maybe a little more comfortable?
WESLEY BRYAN: I think the comfort out here this week, yeah, I got into some pretty good form but out here on the golf course, I got through Q-School just about 14 months ago, and a place that I'm comfortable at and a golf course I know.  They are few and far between out here -- it's my first run at all these tournaments out here.  I love this place, love this golf course.  Had a great day.
WESLEY BRYAN: I would say the one thing I had to learn was the travel part of it.  I've never really travelled week-to-week.  Short turnarounds, trying to get ready, the travel is probably the biggest difference.
Q. How did that affect your golf game?
WESLEY BRYAN: I had the luxury, I won early last year, and was able to kind of pick and choose my schedule.  Didn't have to play a lot of weeks in a row and out here, being a rookie, your hand is pretty much forced and you've got to keep playing and keep chugging along.  I don't know what's clicked any different but starting to get a little bit warmer weather out here than we've had on the West Coast, so that makes it a little bit easier.
Q. This isn't an easy golf course but you say you love the golf course.  Why is that?
WESLEY BRYAN: It's so tricky and challenging around the greens.  It's a big, long golf course, tight fairways, and most of the teeth come from really 30 or 40 yards and in.  It's a place, like I said, 14 months ago at Q-School, was able to navigate it and finished Top-10 that week, and just kind of continued that play today.
Q. Have you been here since Q-School?
WESLEY BRYAN: I haven't been out here since Q-School.  I know we did the Big Break out here a year before that.  It was actually a great thing to get kicked off the show really early.  It gave us a lot of time to return around some of these golf courses.  Was able to get three or four rounds over here after getting eliminated, so that definitely made things a little bit easier.
Q. What was that experience like, the Big Break?  Obviously something very different.
WESLEY BRYAN: Oh, it's so different.  I can't even explain to you the pressure that you feel in that type of environment.  It's not real golf, so you can't go up and -- if you hit a bad shot, you can't go and get out of trouble with a wedge shot or a putt.  But yeah, it's just different.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT