JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
August 12, 2016
Wesley Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
AMANDA HERRINGTON: We'd like to welcome Wesley Bryan in after a bogey-free 7-under.  You were on the 11th green when round 1 was called yesterday.  Pretty impressive stats; I think you missed two fairways, looking at your strokes gained.  Clearly dialed in.  Talk a little bit about finishing round 1, keeping that momentum going and pulling off a bogey-free 18 holes.   
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, finishing round 1, I think I made a couple birdies coming in to post 5.  I birdied No. 18, I believe.  Went back out, been hitting the ball great all week, really the last couple weeks, and I missed a lot of opportunities on the back nine, I guess, that I just finished, the front nine.  But it was a good day.  Struck it well, made the putts when I needed to, and here we are.   
 Q.  I know it was pretty wet out there and this is a course you need to make birdies on.  Did the soft conditions really force you to be more aggressive?  
WESLEY BRYAN: The second round I was able to fire at a lot more flags just because we had ball in hand, and the course is not really that long, so got a lot of short and mid irons into these greens, and the ball is just hitting and stopping, you don't really have to worry about it spinning back too much.  They're soft enough to where they're just kind of hitting and reacting, really, really soft.  So was able to fire at a few more flags that maybe I wouldn't have normally gone after, but I mean, the guys are going to have the same conditions tomorrow.  I don't see it drying up too much, and they'll still have ball in hand.  The scores are probably going to continue to go pretty low.   
 Q.  You had those two birdies on the front nine, but then you two-putted those four holes.  Did you kind of lose your putter there a little bit?  
WESLEY BRYAN: I mean, just late in the day.  The greens are really soft.  There's a lot of traffic late in the day.  I mean, I felt like I was hitting a lot of good putts, just had to stay patient.  I knew they were eventually going to go in.  I was able to -- of all holes, birdieing No. 7, the 220-yard par-3, it was good to get a birdie there, but I mean, I felt like I was rolling them pretty good all day, they just weren't going in.   
 Q.  Coming off the Web.com TOUR, how did that help you here on the PGA TOUR?  
WESLEY BRYAN: I mean, just knowing that I've been in contention and been able to hit the shots that I needed to on that level, I mean, there's a lot of really good players out there, and it's just as hard to win a golf tournament out there as it is out here I presume.  Just knowing that I've been there and been able to hit the shots under pressure I think should help me out moving forward.   
 Q.  The way you just phrased that, that you presume out here, last week did you think you could be in contention the way you are right now?  
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, the way I played last week, I felt it was good enough to be in contention anywhere I was going to be playing.  Been driving it really well, hitting my irons really well and rolling it really well.  Most of the time when you have all three of those things clicking, it's usually going to correlate on any golf course.   
 Q.  Going into the weekend, obviously the second round is not complete yet, but you currently have the lead, on a course where birdies and scoring are a priority.  Do you have a preference of having the lead or chasing?  
WESLEY BRYAN: It doesn't really matter.  I think I'm sitting at 12-under right now, and I mean, if you can double that, I feel like that's going to be right in the thick of things on the weekend.  I mean, it's a golf course there's a lot of birdies out there, but there is trouble lurking, especially on a couple of the holes.  18 and 9, they're really tough holes on any golf course.  There's some stumbling blocks out there, but for the most part it's a lot of wedges and good, soft bent greens, so the scores are going to continue to go low and hopefully I can keep making some birdies.   
 Q.  I was curious who you have on the bag this week.  And is that a permanent thing going forward?  
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, I've got William Lanier on the bag.  I've gotten to know him really well over the last couple years.  He lives in Augusta.  He's a veteran caddie out here.  Just freed up a couple weeks ago, so I snatched him up, and moving forward, I mean, we've worked well the last couple weeks together, so yeah, I don't mind saying this is going to be a pretty permanent thing moving forward.   
 Q.  Are you having fun out there?  Is it fun to kind of be out there and hear the crowds cheer you on?  
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, I mean, you don't tee it up to lose, you don't tee it up to not be in contention, so it's definitely way more fun up near the top of the leaderboard than it is clawing and scrapping to make a cut.   
Yeah, I definitely enjoy being up near the top of the leaderboard.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT