FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 10, 2016
Wesley Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Wesley, your first PGA TOUR start this week.  Level par yesterday.  A 66, 4-under today.  How much fun has that been?  
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah.  I mean anytime you can go with red numbers, especially on a hard golf course, I guess it's a lot of fun.   
 Q.  A bit about you as well as because you're new to some of our viewers.  You played some great golf at Web.com.  You were leading the money list.  Two wins already this year.  
 This is your first sponsor's invitation.  This is what you sent out earlier in the week, "Let's see what this the PGA TOUR stuff is all about."   
 What are your first impressions?   
WESLEY BRYAN: That's -- I thought I had an apostrophe over that.  Sorry for the bad grammar.  It's been a lot of fun.  They treat us a lot better out here.  The food is amazing.  There's volunteers everywhere just wanting to help you.  The golf course is amazing.  Shoot, they're doing my laundry for me this week and give me a courtesy car.  There's no complaints.   
 Q.  Simple things in life.  
WESLEY BRYAN: I know, right?   
 Q.  Also there's something a bit unique about you and your rise to this, your meteoric rise to this point in your career, wasn't the same as the PGA TOUR process.  
 Tell us about really what all this came from, what inspired you to be the great trick shot artist that you are.   
WESLEY BRYAN: You know, I think just me and my brother, we were broke and really bored out on the mini tours and needed to find some way to pass the time and in between tournaments and then we started messing around doing this stuff and found that it could fund our professional careers and ultimately keep giving me and George the opportunity to do what we've always dreamed of doing, playing on the PGA TOUR.  We're here now and I mean it's a lot of fun but it's way more fun being out here playing.   
 Q.  George does the trick shots with you.  Is it something that you'll continue to do now that you've made it?  
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah.  If the right opportunities present themselves, yeah, I've got no problem doing it.   
 Q.  Just finally, last question, do you like your new job more?  
WESLEY BRYAN: There is a lot of fun.   
 Q.  4-under, bogey-free.  You have to be very pleased.  What was the difference today compared to yesterday?  
WESLEY BRYAN: You know, I was able to get a few of the balls up and down today that I didn't get up and down yesterday and honestly if you had walked around and watched me play it didn't look like a bogey-free, 66.  Kind of all over the place.  I mean anytime you can get around in red numbers on this track, it's a good day.  No complaints about that.   
 Q.  You've already had a big year with a couple wins on the Web.com.  You have to find yourself controlling your emotions because it is kind of a bigger deal out here on the PGA Tour.  
WESLEY BRYAN: I got to keep looking at it as another golf tournament.  When I get out there, there's still a tee box, fairway, green and hole.  Only thing that changes are the names on the leaderboard and the name of the Tour.   
Just dumbing it down to going out there and playing golf and hopefully continue to play well.   
 Q.  Looking forward to the weekend.  Obviously you played well today.  
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah.  I mean Saturday and Sunday is when it gets fun.  I guess the crowds get a little bigger.  Hopefully we can put up a good number.   
 Q.  Our guys in the booth were talking a lot about you and your brother.  You can see at it PGA TOUR.com and the Bryan Brothers.  
 Do you guys still do it or are you putting that on the back burner right for now?   
WESLEY BRYAN: Did a show the day before yesterday.  We're going to continue to do it as long as the right opportunities present themselves.  And, I mean, honestly, it's a lot of fun.  Taken us to a lot of really cool places.  I don't think we can just sacrifice that just because I'm out here playing.   
 Q.  Do people kind of yell for you out there, "Hey can you do this" or while you're playing?  
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah.   
 Q.  You kind of disregard it.  It's good to see you.  Great watching you play.  Keep it up.  
WESLEY BRYAN: Thank you.   
 Q.  Today, you know, bogey-free, 4-under, 66.  Got to feel good about where you are.  
WESLEY BRYAN: I couldn't really smack my leg on the hole because I got away with a lot out there.  I was able to get a few of those balls up and down.  I was honestly in some pretty bad spots.  I mean bogey-free, anytime you do that around here, it's a good day.   
 Q.  For you, what was the difference between yesterday and today besides maybe more putts falling and things like that?  More comfortable today?  
WESLEY BRYAN: There was a couple more putts fell and I kept giving myself more opportunities.  Like yesterday I was kind of hitting it pretty far away from the hole and today I left myself with a few more birdie looks.   
Honestly it could have been a lot better but, like I said, when I missed, there was some squirrely ones out there.  It could have been a lot worse.   
 Q.  You're five shots off the lead right now.  You told me on Wednesday the only goal was to be in contention on Sunday, whether that was two down or three up.  
 So now as you come back tomorrow, do you have a number in your head as you sit five shots back right now?   
WESLEY BRYAN: No.  Go out there and really the next 27 holes are just going to be play as well as I can and, like I said, hopefully have a chance coming down the back-9 -- I mean the way it's looking like the scores are going, I'm probably going to have to get a few tomorrow and then get a couple more starting out on Sunday to get myself in position.  It's doable.  The winds are staying down which as long as you drive it well you can score.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT