THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 1, 2018
Wesley Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You said you've been working really hard.  Would you characterize as what you've been going through is a swing change or just going back to something you did before?
WESLEY BRYAN: It's not really a swing change.  A lot of it is just kind of neutralizing the ball flight a little bit.  I was seeing it turn over a little too much.  It's good for those left flag placements, but it gets a little dicey when you put pins over to the right.  But just neutralizing the ball flight, playing a little straighter of a ball and hitting a couple little more bleeders to get into those right flags.  I would say, yes, there's a little bit of a swing change, but it's more based on ball flight instead of trying to hit certain positions.
Q. Is there a turning point in the last few weeks where you started to see things heading into the right direction?
WESLEY BRYAN: Really at THE PLAYERS.  I know I missed the cut there, but I definitely started to see a lot more improvement.  I hit a lot of really, really good shots there and didn't exactly get rewarded for them.  I bogeyed the last couple to miss the cut there.  But I felt like the game was at least rounding into form there and last week had splashes of good play.  But more or less it, for me, it just boils down to the putter.  If the putter's rolling well and I'm getting the ball in the fairway, usually that's when I've had the bulk of my success.  And like I said earlier, the putts are starting to fall and feeling really comfortable on the greens.  It's in such perfect condition out here, if you get the ball in the fairway, you don't have mud, and you're able to attack some of these holes with the greens being soft.  So it's been a fun couple days and look forward to getting back to work this afternoon and ready for the weekend.
Q. How important is it for reassurance purposes.  You've been working really hard, but to sort of actually see it on the board?
WESLEY BRYAN: For me it's not that important.  Yes, it's nice to put it together during competition, but it's such a long season and there's going to be highs and there's going to be lows and it hasn't been a great year up to this point, but really since about Riviera I've started to see a lot more improvement.  Like I said, the results haven't shown it, I was, I've had a little better finishes earlier in the year, but still it's a long season, like I said, and we haven't even got to the second major yet.  So there's still a lot of golf to be played.
Q. I think you said at Hilton Head you like to play a lot.  You look at your schedule so far you played quite a bit this year.  Do you feel like that suits you or --
WESLEY BRYAN: I mean in years past I hadn't played as much and last year I didn't play as much, and when I was on the WEB.COM I think I only played maybe 13 events or so there during the regular season.  So I mean both ways, I love to play golf, I love this game and I love to compete and I'm buckled down and I'm going to hopefully get on a little bit of a run here and play a lot of golf from here to the end of the year.
Q. After having as much success as you did in 2016 and 2017, what's been the biggest challenge the last six months?
WESLEY BRYAN: Just managing expectations.  This game can beat you up in a heartbeat.  You can be really, really close and not see any results and that can wear on you mentally, but I mean the biggest difference for me I feel like is, like alluding to the iron play, it's been good this week, that's been something that's been a strong point in my game over the last few years and the putter maybe hasn't cooperated as well as I would want to up to this point in the year, but starting to see some improvements and hopefully can get back to that form.
Q. How many drivers do you hit out here in a round typically?
WESLEY BRYAN: I would say about a little over half the holes I'm hitting driver out here.  There's a few holes 3-wood just fits better to my eye and there's a couple holes where you just hit a hybrid or an iron off the tee.  So it's a good mix, it's a great test of golf and looking forward to the next couple days.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT