MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2018
Wesley Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Coming into this week you obviously wanted to continue to be there for the weekend. Do you draw anything from your first Masters appearance in these first two days?  
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, if nothing else at least I know the golf course a little bit better. Didn't play the way I wanted to and didn't putt it particularly well or hit it particularly well and I guess that's why I'm sitting on the wrong side of the cut line. It's disappointing, I felt like I was in pretty good form coming in and I guess that's just how it goes.  
   
 Q. How tough was it out there with the wind and the pin placements?  
WESLEY BRYAN: The pin placements were a little bit easier today than they were yesterday, in my opinion. The wind was swirling a little bit out there and I hit some good shots that didn't end up too well and put myself in a couple bad spots and missed a handful of short par putts and, I mean, I didn't play the par‑5s well this week, I didn't miss it in the correct spots on some of the par‑3s and that's pretty much how golf goes sometimes. But excited to get back to Harbour Town next week. It's a place I'm really familiar with and going to go defend there and hopefully figure some things out between now and then.   
   
 Q. What is the mindset now as you go to where you won last year?  
WESLEY BRYAN: It's obviously a place I'm really comfortable at and I have a lot of good experiences to draw on and we'll be ready to go come Thursday next week.   
   
 Q. What do you take away from these two days? You've kind of been here your whole life, but having experienced it, what do you take away from it?  
WESLEY BRYAN: That I want to be back here, I want some redemption. So hopefully next year we'll be able to give it another run. But all in all just extremely special experience, one that I'll remember forever, even though that it didn't turn out the way I wanted to this time, I feel confident I'll be back here in the future.  
   
 Q. You mentioned how you played the par‑5s and the par‑3s. What else do you take away from this experience that will help you when you make it back?  
WESLEY BRYAN: I mentioned the par‑5s and par‑3s, but I definitely played the par‑4s pretty poor as well. Got shut out today, didn't make a birdie. But there's, like I said yesterday, this golf course, you're always learning about it. You can play it for a lot of years and still pick up on things. So it was a learning experience, I'll be better prepared next year, hopefully we'll be back. And I mean it's still, it's just really, really special just to be able to compete in these, but like I said, I wanted to get in contention. I felt like I was in good enough form, but just didn't fall my way this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT