MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Wesley Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Wesley, how did it go out there?
WESLEY BRYAN: Average. Very, very average. My first competitive round I think in five or six weeks. So all in all it wasn't bad. Hit a lot of good shots. Didn't capitalize on a few opportunities that I had, but all in all it was pretty solid. I don't think it's playing too difficult out there. There's definitely going to be some numbers. Just didn't really play good on the back nine. And missed a few putts. And I shot 74. It's nothing that I'm super thrilled about, but going to work on it a little bit this afternoon and hopefully be better tomorrow.

Q. What did you think about the support and the people that were following?
WESLEY BRYAN: The support was great. A lot of family and friends and a lot of people cheering as I was walking off tee boxes and up to the green, that was pretty cool. 
As one of the local guys, there might be some favoritism shown, but all in all I feel like it was a very unforgettable first Masters performance. 

Q. Teeing off first this morning, was that an advantage, good rhythm to it?
WESLEY BRYAN: It was cold. It was really, really cold. But, like I was saying earlier, being able to watch Mr. Player and Mr. Nicklaus tee off on the first tee this morning, it just gave me chills. And honestly it's one of those moments I'll never forget. And if I had an afternoon tee time, I probably still would have made it out here. But being first off allowed me to embrace that moment. 

Q. After 51 weeks of waiting for this, were you glad to be in the first group off and getting it over with?
WESLEY BRYAN: I love being first off on Thursday and Friday. You definitely don't want that Saturday or Sunday. Obviously the greens are perfect out here. There wasn't a footprint, a pine needle, a spike mark or anything out here. It was rolling absolutely perfect. That's one of the advantages to being first off. 

Q. How good did it feel to get back to competitive golf after your self‑imposed hiatus there?
WESLEY BRYAN: I looked at it more as a sabbatical. But it was nice. The jitters were going on the first tee, and I missed that. And it was funonce I got out there and the rhythm of it and once it warmed up it was definitely a lot of fun. I missed competing, but it was also time I felt like I needed off. And honestly I felt really, really sharp out there. I didn't feel like I missed a beat. Although a couple loose shots here and there, and a couple of missed putts. But all in all, I don't think it was a terrible effort out there. 

Q. Did you and Austin know each other from college golf?
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, it goes back to college golf a little bit. And then we actually played Web.com Tour together, Q‑School together back in 2015. And played the Web.com Tour together in 2016. I got to know him pretty well with that. We're good buddies, and my wife and his wife are very good friends. It was a very comfortable pairing.

Q. You struggled in all three majors last year, is that something you have to overlook as you played the first major this year?
WESLEY BRYAN: I mean, not really. I was in‑‑ honestly poor form going into PGA. I wasn't playing good leading up to that. And honestly I was struggling going into the U.S. Open, as well. But the British Open was one of those that I felt like I was in pretty good form, but kind of the raw end of the weather draw there. Yeah, obviously those are performances that I'm not proud of. And I don't think the stage or the moment was too big for me. I just felt like I was in poor form, and that's why I took five weeks leading into this one. I felt like I could make sure I was sharp.

Q. The putt on 18, was it hard to stop that putt?
WESLEY BRYAN: Yeah, you can be a little more aggressive there and try and die it. But the last thing you want to do is‑‑ the fringes out here is a little bit sticky, so it's not difficult just to leave it short of the green. And that's not where you want to keep that putt. So I figured if I was a little more aggressive on the first putt, I would at least see it going by the hole. I had a good read on it, but hit a bad putt. If the lie was a little better I probably would have chipped it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT