THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 22, 2002
Laura Davies
Iben Tinning
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.  We have Laura Davies and Iben Tinning, here.  Commiserations, ladies.  Thoughts of the day.  Start with Laura?
LAURA DAVIES:  We got off to a start, they got a good start, and right there was a few others that made a huge fight of it.  For a while there I thought we were going to get away with it, and then we would retain the cup but, unfortunately, it didn't quite work out, they won the points.

Q.  Iben, fantastic point for you, but sour at the end, right? 
IBEN TINNING:  I think everybody just did their best and it wasn't just not good enough today, and, I mean, I was quite happy to show the guys I got the first point, and maybe we could have a go at it, and I think they tried really, really hard, it's just we didn't make all the putts, so  --

Q.  Do you have any questions?  How difficult were the conditions today compared to the other days? 
LAURA DAVIES: They were considerably more difficult.  Obviously, the foursomes is the hardest format anyway, but the course was two or three shots harder at least today just because of the swelling winds and the undulation of the greens.

Q.  Laura, you had a tough time on the par 5's today.  What happened there? 
LAURA DAVIES:  I tried to win my match.  I could have gone out there and just not tapped it down the middle, but I decided that I tried to drive the first and got it in the green side bunker, hit a good bunker shot to 6, 8 feet, missed that, got on the second hole and the par 5 didn't cut it, went dead straight with the trees, but I made a par there, had a very good birdie chance, missed that. 
I was going for the big shots, I was trying to win the match, I didn't want to hope Meg didn't play well, and I hold a 4-foot putt all day.  Mickey Mouse could have beat me the way I putted today, but Meg is a lot better than Mickey Mouse, that's for sure.

Q.  Iben, this question is for you.  Yesterday was a very difficult day for you, but I was quite impressed with the way you turned things around for yourself, and I wondered if you could just comment quickly on your experience in this Solheim  Cup, summarize it for me.
IBEN TINNING:  Well, the Solheim  Cup has been a fantastic experience, I loved every minute of it, and, of course, I stood out in the foursome.  I played with Mhairi McKay, I played all right in the beginning, and then I started chopping some shots, which wasn't all that nice, and it was a bit embarrassing being in the Solheim chopping shots, which I haven't done like that, but I got my mental coach in, said, "You know what, you had some great shots, you had two or three very bad shots, forget them, go out and play your golf again." 
I was really happy that Dale, she put me out in the fourballs.  If she didn't do that, it's not nice to sleep over that.  So fantastic I got out there playing again, and I think I played well that afternoon, so overall it's been a fantastic experience, I got two points for the Solheim and I am happy for that, so yeah.

Q.  Laura, what was  -- did you pay much attention to the Americans and what was your board, and what was your reaction to the quick start up there? 
LAURA DAVIES:  Like I said, that was very good on the Americans' part, they are great Sunday players, they put great pressure on us.  And I, for one, didn't play well enough.  While there is all that red up there, all you are really trying to do is win your match, but you can't help seeing just an absolute red, red, red all the way. 
And then a few of the girls  -- Carin and Karine at the end of the matches, they were in the blue, and when Iben turned it around, like I said, we started thinking we are going to get away with this, and it just didn't quite work out, but, you know, you put the pressure on early, that's what match play is all about, and they did a very, very great job.  They are a great team, and if we would have beaten them, we would have beaten a very special team.

Q.  Laura, you said a goal had been to win the singles to show that we could play singles.  Why do you think traditionally we (inaudible)?
LAURA DAVIES:  I have absolutely no idea, I was on that first tee this morning, all the girls looked relaxed today, ready to go, and I will be honest with you, I thought we were going to win comfortably.  With a two-point lead, I could see us winning quite comfortably, because the American team is very good, this is the best team I have ever played with, and we ended up losing. 
It's just one of those who knows?  We didn't make putts.  It seems like we make all our putts the first two days and everything gets going and then on Sunday everyone's putting seems to go out because that's exactly that match play is all about. 
If you are the furthest away and you can hole a putt, very rarely will a player follow you in, and it doesn't have to be more than 6- or 8 feet, and they did that time, after time, after time, and they did it to me again today, and that was great, that's what you have got to do to win.

Q.  As a follow-up to that, Laura, why do you think the Americans do so well  -- why have they traditionally done so well on singles? 
LAURA DAVIES:  I have no idea.  If I knew, we would do better and we would beat them.  I don't know. 

Q.  Any more questions, ladies and gentlemen?  Laura, Iben, thank you very much. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT