OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 11, 2010
Iben Tinning
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   IBEN TINNING: It is going through my head now but I still can't believe I won and it's just amazing. I really tried to keep strong out there and it was tough sometimes but I cannot believe this.   
  
  Q. When did you sense you had this in the bag?   
 IBEN TINNING: I really didn't think I had it in the bag until I got to 18. Obviously when I hit the third shot and it was close, I knew this is really good and that that would put some pressure on Mel, as well.   
  
  Q. What does it mean to end your career like this?  
 IBEN TINNING: It's just crazy. I know all of the people that helped me out and my parents and my husband, I mean, it's such a great gift for everybody and we are just so happy.   
  
  Q. Well, yesterday, you said that -- yesterday you talked about a tournament or two, but seriously retired?   
 IBEN TINNING: Yes.   
  
  Q. Not having second thoughts about keeping it going?  
 IBEN TINNING: No, no, no. It's not an option. I am on so many painkillers, it's just not fun anymore. Obviously to win like this, it has been my main goal to finish on a high but my hip is just so bad. On 16, I had such a bad pain and I'm just happy it kept me through and that I can pick up the trophy.   
  
  Q. Was any part of 2007 going through your mind as you played 17 and 18?  
 IBEN TINNING: Oh, yeah. But it's something I've been thinking about for a long time and obviously going through with my mental coach. And I just knew that I'm not going to go for the yardage on 18 --  
  
  Q. Annika ended her career here.   
 IBEN TINNING: Yeah, it's just amazing to win and obviously I played this course so many times now, I know more and more about it, and that really helped me.  
  
  Q. What are you going to do?   
 IBEN TINNING: I'm going to try to get a diploma in psychotherapy. That's my main thing at the moment.   
  
  Q. How much does it help that your husband is your caddie?   
 IBEN TINNING: You know, yeah, obviously Lasse is not a pro caddie but he knows what I'm going through and he's sort of going through the same, and it just amazing to have him on the side. He can be there for me and we go through this together. It's one of the greatest memories we are ever going to have, besides having our kid.   
  
  Q. In terms of finishing your career, I would imagine finishing on a high is better than coming back and not doing so well. Surely this can't be topped?  
 IBEN TINNING: This can't beat anything.   
  
  Q. So you won't be tempted to come back?  
 IBEN TINNING: I'll come and play maybe the Nations Cup, only because my mom and dad has got an apartment down there, so we can take a vacation as well. I'm quite sure I'll play that one and one more. Unless I can get absolutely fit and my son just has such a hard time when I'm leaving and I miss him to pieces now, it's ridiculous how much I miss him.  
  
  Q. Any interest in Solheim Cup captaincy, vice captaincy in the future?  
 IBEN TINNING: I haven't thought very much about that. That's a very big role and I'm not too sure I want that.  
  
  Q. How did you feel with the reception that you got?  
 IBEN TINNING: Fabulous, I was so happy, that was just great, and my coach came in and we started crying and just I couldn't hold it back anymore. That was really nice.  
  
  Q. Melissa said that if she didn't win, she wanted you to win.   
 IBEN TINNING: That's sweet of her. She has such a big future ahead of her. She's such a great golfer. I did try to keep my eyes on my own game, so I didn't see that many of her shots, but I know she's such a talented girl. She's going to do really, really well I think.  
  
  Q. Where do you see the future of Ladies European Tour golf going?  
 IBEN TINNING: Obviously I want some more money in these events but I want all of the women's events to play like this. We are not getting any money. We are getting more tournaments but we are not getting more money and it's a bit unfair I think. I've have felt that for many years. They are doing really well. It's not a complaint or anything, and with the financial crisis, I think that we really have to step up with the money, get better fields.  
  
  Q. Bridge the gap on men's golf.   
 IBEN TINNING: That would be nice if it happens but I doubt it.  
  
  Q. Maybe tell us some of the highlights, things that stand out?  
 IBEN TINNING: Well, got the Solheim Cup in Barsebäck, and over in America, that's one of my big highs and lows. Obviously all of my wins and when I won the three tournaments, I won the Order of Merit at the same time and that was a high one as well in 2005.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT