OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 11, 2010
Iben Tinning
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BETHAN CUTLER: We would like to welcome Tournament Champion Iben Tinning from Denmark. You have won the 2010 OMEGA Dubai Ladies Masters. Congratulations, and tell us how it feels to win here. 
 IBEN TINNING: It's an unbelievable, great, fantastic, I don't know what to say. It's just the greatest thing right now and I'm so happy and pleased that it's over, as well, but I also enjoyed it out there because I knew that this was my last event and it just a big thing for me right now I must say. 
 And to see my name on the trophy, I'm happy, finally. 

 Q. You said you were going to retire; are you still going ahead with it?
 IBEN TINNING: I'm still going to retire. My hip has not been any better this week. I'm going to see a guy back home who I hope can fix me but I can't really see myself playing that much golf anymore. I'm really happy with the finish, and I don't want to play that many tournaments anymore. 
 I want to have a more normal life with my family and my son really has a hard time when I leave, so, you know, I want to be with him and I want to try something else in my life. So I'm pretty happy with it to be honest.

 Q. You said you enjoyed it; that can't be easy when you've got the one-shot lead going down the last hole with two other girls breathing down your neck. 
 IBEN TINNING: I know, there was a lot of breathing there, I must say. 
 But yeah, it's something I've tried a lot of times and I just thought, this time, I'm going to have this trophy. I went out at the start and I just said, I'm going to win, I'm going out to win, not to lose. It's a bit big deal to go that way, instead of just I'm going to save the shot to be safe all the time. I just thought, I'm just going to go for it. 
 And if it works, it works and if he f it doesn't, tried my best, and I can look back in a few years and said I really did my best. So I went out to win today and I think that was the main difference.

 Q. That little sprint around the turn was decisive in the end. 
 IBEN TINNING: Yeah, that was really nice. Obviously it's always nice to be a few shots ahead the others, and I want them to chase more instead of just being, you know calm, so they have to look at me and say, now, she has a two-shot lead, and that was really nice.

 Q. How special was the feeling on the 18th, walking up to the 18th and then making that 20-footer and then getting the hugs from everyone? 
 IBEN TINNING: It was just great. It was just great. When my coach came in, he started crying and then I started crying and it was just unbearable. You know, I was really happy that they took the time because I could breathe a little bit and try to calm myself. 
 I don't really know how I made that putt but I just tried to get it somewhere down there and it was just fantastic to make it and know for sure, this is the end of it, and I finished with a holed put, it's just great. 

 Q. Would you say that Solheim Cup, Dubai 2007 and Dubai now were the best of your career?
 IBEN TINNING: I would say, Dubai 2007 that was pretty hard to get over. It took me a while to get over. That was one of the worst experiences, but also a great one, because I was really there and I could have taken that trophy at the time. And this one I have to really think through, and this is definitely a big, big thing for me. This is definitely a big, big thing for me on my favourite golf course and one of my favourite destinations and it's just amazing.

 Q. And can we just ask you about your family, just one child. 
 IBEN TINNING: I have one son who is four and a half, Mads.

 Q. Can you talk about your highlights?
 IBEN TINNING: Obviously I got the five wins and the Solheim Cup. I played a few times and I won it at Barsebäck, and one of those -- obviously 2007, I talked to you about. And also the time in -- well, we nearly won over the Americans in Solheim Cup when we were in America, that was a bit of a low, because we thought it actually happened probably shouldn't thought that. But it's a little bit hard for me to take all of the years together now and talk about them. It's all a bit of a blur at the moment, I'm sorry. 

 Q. You said you're going to play a couple of tournaments next year. Can we expect you to come back and defend your title here for sure?
 IBEN TINNING: Well, the thing is, if you don't win, it's a bit of a downer. So, I don't know. I really have to think through it. I love this place. But it's also nice to finish at a great place with a win and I'm not so sure I can do that in a year's time. I might not come back.

 Q. How special was it to have your husband on your bag this week and can you just tell us how do you stay focussed, what did you discuss in the morning and how did you approach the round? 
 IBEN TINNING: Well, we actually don't talk too much about the golf, not before, not after, and that's why I got my coach, I speak to him about it and that's it pretty much. I don't want my golf to be my whole life and I think it's important to talk about different things when you're not gone the golf course and that's what we are doing. 

 Q. Did he talk to you something different --
 IBEN TINNING: We need to talk and I need to be silent and my mind starts working, we have to talk about something else. Especially on 17, I said, do you have a fun story, come on, tell me something. 

 Q. So what story did he tell you?
 IBEN TINNING: I can't really remember, it was something about my coach and how nervous he must be and sitting drinking beer in there. Because I told my coach, you can't come out. Because he came out yesterday on 8 and 9 and I made two bogeys, I told him, you jinxed me. He said, I've been here for ten years, I want to watch and I said, sorry, stay in there. He's English by the way. 

 Q. How will you spend it? 
 IBEN TINNING: How will I spend it? I have no idea to be honest. I have a house to pay a mortgage on, so it will go on that one. 
 BETHAN CUTLER: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT