OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 10, 2010
Iben Tinning
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Second consecutive day you've broken 70, how is it possible for you to be this competitive this quickly?   
 IBEN TINNING: I don't know. It must be talent.   
  
  Q. It must be talent. Now you told us yesterday you were not going to be chicken, and you were going to go for flags you don't normally go for. Is it liberating playing like that?  
 IBEN TINNING: In a way it is. Obviously I'm not going for everything. I'm not trying to play stupid golf. But I'm trying to really attack the holes I should attack on.  
  
  Q. Is it a different mind-set, you standing up there saying, I'm going to go for this pin that perhaps I normally wouldn't do?  
 IBEN TINNING: Yeah, and still this morning, when I went out to play, I had my stomach -- I was really nervous the first few holes. And it was funny and I said to my husband, I said, "Well, this is actually what I'm going to miss." So I've just got to enjoy it, even though it was a bit terrifying.  
  
  Q. To win your last event on the day that you retire would be a fairy tale. Do you believe in fairy tales?  
 IBEN TINNING: I do, in a way, yeah. I'm actually a little bit of a romantic. Probably doesn't look like that, but I am.   
  
  Q. I heard on the television that you're going to do a psychotherapy course when you finish here; is that right, four years?   
 IBEN TINNING: Yeah, that's sort of my plan if I can get it, because I haven't been in school for like 16 years. So I'll see if I can get in and do the four years, that would be great.   
  
  Q. A degree sort of thing?  
 IBEN TINNING: A diploma, yeah.  
  
  Q. And you want to help youngsters like Monica and Lisa?  
 IBEN TINNING: For now, I would like that. And I think, you know, when I hopefully get that diploma, I want to do more -- it doesn't have to be athletes.   
  
  Q. Because you've been inspired; you have a psychotherapist, a mental coach.   
 IBEN TINNING: Yeah.  
  
  Q. And what have you learned form him?  
 IBEN TINNING: Oh, God, Bjarne Lellek.  
  
  Q. And what have you learned from him?  
 IBEN TINNING: Oh, my God, I learned so much, I can't start to explain. But he definitely taught me to look more positive at things and think things through before you actually react on it. It's hard to say what I really learned, I learned a lot.  
  
  Q. About the round, the highs and lows today, the best birdies?  
 IBEN TINNING: Well, I was happy in the end that I finished off birdie, par, par, instead of those bogeys coming in, so that was pretty nice. I had a good -- a little bit of a surprising birdie on 16, and I had a great par on 15, as well.   
  
  Q. How long were the putts?  
 IBEN TINNING: Well, 15 and 16, they weren't more than 3 1/2 metres or something like that, so they were not extreme but still they were very good to hole. And I did that today, my putter was really nice to me today.   
 My coach is here today, James Petts. He's really Lee-Anne Pace's, but I borrow him once in a while, and he helped me out with my wedge game today.   
 So that was really nice. I had a few of those I normally hit, a few within a metre or two metres, and I haven't had that for two days so I was a little bit disappointed with that. But I helped me out and now I'm good.  
  
  Q. He was on the range with you?  
 IBEN TINNING: Yeah, he was here this morning.  
  
  Q. It was that kind of day where the leaderboard kept moving. Were you noticing the leaderboard?  
 IBEN TINNING: I wasn't really. I'm actually surprised the scores are not any lower to be honest. And you know, I'm definitely playing some of the best golf I can. I really played lovely today and this was definitely my best day out there.   
  
  Q. How do you think your mind-set will be tomorrow morning when you know it's your last day?  
 IBEN TINNING: Well, I'm going to speak to by Bjarne, so we'll see tomorrow.   
  
  Q. And that's the thing, obviously it's a weekend where you're thinking about retiring, but now you almost have to switch your gears to winning. What's going through your head?  
 IBEN TINNING: I wasn't really prepared for this, but you know, I've got nothing to lose really, have I.   
 So it's just going out there and trying to do my best and if I get nervous, I get nervous; or if the adrenaline rush is too much, it's too much. I just have to try and control it.  
  
  Q. Has that mind-set helped you play well these two days?  
 IBEN TINNING: Yeah, and I also have a very good breathing technique (indicating deep breathing). That helped a lot, especially in the beginning. That was good. But it was funny to be so nervous in the beginning. I'm like, what are you doing, you're 36, you're retiring and you're like jumping.  
  
  Q. When you look back at your career, what do you think would be the highlight, and any regrets that you have?   
 IBEN TINNING: Oh, regrets, probably to meet my sports psychologist a bit before would that been nice. A few years before I actually met him would be great. That's one of the regrets that I didn't find good enough, a sports psychologist.   
 And the highlight is definitely the Solheim Cup Barsebäck. That's still one of my great memories.  
  
  Q. Your last victory was --  
 IBEN TINNING: Many years ago.  
  
  Q. And I asked you this the other day, early in the round, it's hard to contemplate winning this, but now you're going into the final day in the lead, or quite possibly in the lead. Again, what would it mean to end your career with a victory?  
 IBEN TINNING: It would be great. I've been waiting for a career win for, what, six years, and I think it's about time, and that's probably one of my left chances. I might play one or two next year, but I'll see what it is. I've just got to stick to my game plan in my pocket and that's it.   
  
  Q. Now getting back to the round, you mentioned on 15 how you saved par, what was the key there? Was it a big putt?   
 IBEN TINNING: I hit it on the right side of the green and I had a really, really quick chip, and it just released and I had like a three meter putt. Actually when I stood over it, I didn't really believe it was going to go in. So when I saw it rolled in, just this was just a bonus day.   
  
  Q. You also talked about a birdie on 16 didn't expect?  
 IBEN TINNING: Yeah, I actually walked all the way up and then it rolled in. I thought it was going to be short.  
  
  Q. Was that a chip or a putt?  
 IBEN TINNING: A putt.  
  
  Q. Your putter was working for you.   
 IBEN TINNING: Yeah, my putter has been very nice all week. My wedge and driver and putter has been my best weapons today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT