DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 27, 2012
Andrey Golubev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. GOLUBEV/M. Djokovic
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Your reaction to the win?   How do you feel about your first‑round match?   
ANDREY GOLUBEV:   I'm happy to win.   Yeah, it was not easy match.   I started with nervous.   My serve doesn't work so good in the beginning, but then after first serve I got more confidence with the court, with the conditions, and played better.   
   
 Q.   Is it intimidating facing a Djokovic, although not Novak?   Does it play with your mind?  
ANDREY GOLUBEV:   I think no, because he's a guy, he's a person like everybody of us.   So I don't think.   I just thinking about how I have to play.   
But doesn't matter who is on other side of court.  
   
 Q.   You've faced Novak and Marko now.   Are there similarities between their style of play, would you say, at this stage from what you've seen?  
ANDREY GOLUBEV:   They are pretty similar technique, that's what I could see.   I'm playing, not watching his game, but, yeah, of course similar technique.   I think he's moving pretty well.   
   
 Q.   Next it's Dolgopolov or Del Potro, two tough opponents.   Juan Martin just won in Marseilles.   How do you see that clash?   
ANDREY GOLUBEV:   It's going to be of course good match against whatever, Del Potro or Dolgopolov.   It's two very different players, both serving very good.   
I don't know.   I'm going to watch the match.   Of course Del Potro maybe having a little bit tired.   It's normal after indoor and outdoor.   It's different conditions.   
So it's going to be interesting to watch the first round.   
   
 Q.   A lot of us are quite interested about the emergence of Kazakhstan as a tennis nation.   We know most of you guys are born in Russia.   How much time do you actually spend in Kazakhstan?   
ANDREY GOLUBEV:   We go there of course for Davis Cup, also for some practicing.   So, I mean, we are free.   If I want to go there tomorrow, I go there.   It's not a problem.   
Of course it's very tough with the schedule.   It's normal, because some people are here, you playing for the nation, but you never go there.   
Ask for Argentinians how many times they spend in Argentina.   Every tennis player traveling around the world and spend more time, I think, on the plane.   
Or, I don't know.   In United States you spend two months, two months and a half every year.   So normally spend more time there than in your home.  
   
 Q.   Off‑season?   
ANDREY GOLUBEV:   Off‑season I been here in her the Aviation Club.   
   
 Q.   What are the facilities like in Kazakhstan?  
ANDREY GOLUBEV:   Facilities, they build in every region like tennis school.   So indoor, outdoor courts, they invest a lot in things for children.   I mean, for the little boys and girls.  
We are like, you know, just to just give example and of course to have Davis Cup, possibility to play World Group.   But all investors, like 90% of investing is going to grow up the tennis school with the coaches and instructor and everything.  
   
 Q.   Does the Federation ask you to help with young players in the country?  
ANDREY GOLUBEV:   Yeah.   I mean, we are also available when we go there for tournament or for Davis Cup, for many other reasons.  
So always organizing something like master class or some practicing with the young guys so they can see we are also there to play with them and showing.   
   
 Q.   When you were asked to change your nationality from Russian to Kazakhstan, was it a big decision for you?  
ANDREY GOLUBEV:   It was important decision, but the main point for‑‑ I did the first from Russia and I played for Russia, but was only like nobody cares.   Maybe say it little bit strange, but in Kazakhstan I really like the project of tennis, and so they not to us, okay, you play and that's it.   
They really interesting.   Also the president of Federation called me sometimes asking, How are you?   What do you feel?   What you want to do?   You know, asking for something if you need some help and everything.  
They really interesting to become tennis nation.   The Kazakhs in general invest a lot in sport now, so tennis also.  
   
 Q.   What kind of numbers do you see in the sport in Kazakhstan?   
ANDREY GOLUBEV:   Numbers?   
   
 Q.   Children, how many children?  
ANDREY GOLUBEV:   There is one project they called like Team Kazakhstan.   They taking every year like three or four best boys and girls per age and making school.   They are studying during the morning and they have practice, tennis practice, physical work in Astana for like 30 boys, 30 girls, the best for each for our country.  
And also in the region they have local schools.   
   
 Q.   And your passport, is it just Kazakhstan or Russia and just Kazakhstan?  
ANDREY GOLUBEV:   No.   Kazakhstan.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT