U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2011
Andrey Golubev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/A. Golubev
  6-3, 7-6, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about your performance as a whole tonight?  
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: If you don't think about the points, it was not bad performance. I mean, you have to win the points when you have to win, for example, like second set or third set when you serve for the set. Without that moment, it's okay.   
  
  Q. What about those moments? There were the seven set points in the second set. I think you served for a set three times in the match. In those moments, what is your view of what happened?   
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: I don't know. It was maybe bad luck, some wrong shots, some good shots from his side. One or two passing shots.   
 But then, of course, I made I think a lot of winners. So when you're in that situation, you have to win this point, how you want with slice, backhand, forehand. So if you want to compare with these guys, for sure.   
  
  Q. When you were up 5-3 and 40-Love in the second set, in your mind were you thinking that you had it wrapped up?  
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: No, nothing. I just was completely relaxed. But like, Don't turning in some strange. So I'm very, I mean, pissed off about that points. But it's okay. It's happens.   
  
  Q. And speaking of being pissed off, the one shot where you thought the ball bounced twice, what did you see?  
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: Yeah, I mean, one time I return to the net, go up to the net. Then I made double-faults. Of course, now you can think it could be better, maybe different.   
 But, no, after match it's only words, so...   
  
  Q. The point I'm talking about is the dropshot that you thought the ball bounced twice.   
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: Yeah, I was thinked it was double bounce. Then, I don't know, I didn't see. But, anyway, was maybe one bounce.   
 I'm not sure, because when you're in the match, it's important moment. You see maybe you think it's double bounce, so you have to speak with referee in that moment.   
  
  Q. Was it hard to get your focus back after that?  
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: No. I was focusing since first point till the end. So it was not really difficult.   
 Maybe I should be more concentrate when I serve for the set match. But I played like other games. So maybe that's mistake.   
  
  Q. Did you come in with the idea to really be aggressive and go for broke? You had a number of errors, but you also had far more winners than he did. Was that the plan?   
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: Yeah, especially me. I try always to play in this way. Especially maybe against Rafa, because if you give some chances, especially with left hand, you start to run, right, left, it's very tough.   
 So you have to stay on the court, be aggressive. Of course, you will miss a lot of points because when you hitting hard, it's normal that you miss.   
 But it was only chance to have some possibility to win.   
  
  Q. How would you sum up this experience?  
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: Nice (smiling). Of course, it's nice. I never played in the stadium in no one of four Grand Slams, especially against big guy. So it was really great experience.   
  
  Q. When you learned you would be playing a night match at Arthur Ashe against Rafael Nadal, what was your reaction? Were you excited or daunted by what that would be?  
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: Yeah, of course excited. You never know what happens in the future. But you can say, of course, you played in Arthur Ashe Stadium one time against Nadal. Anyway, it's good for your career, for your tennis life.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT