WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2011
Andrey Golubev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. GOLUBEV/S. Wawrinka
  3-6, 6-4, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Can you just talk about finally getting a win and breaking the 18-match losing streak. 
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: Yeah, it was good sensation. I'm happy that it happens today, so... 
 Actually I won some matches, but it was on Challenger Tour, so it's a little bit different.
 But I think I play great match. Maybe didn't play his best tennis, but it's things that happens in our sport.

 Q. You had a long service game at the beginning of the third set. You saved like four breakpoints in that. He had already gotten angry at the end of the second set. Do you think that game decided the match?
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: Sure it was very important, because I think, you know, he tried to break me that game and I keep my serve and was really important. Because beginning the last set, deciding set with a break down, it's different. 

 Q. When you haven't won an ATP-level match in so long and you see you're playing a seed, what does that make you feel?
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: I think it doesn't matter against who you play you're not winning so much matches. So it's only depends of you, how you're preparing this match, and we see what's happen.

 Q. Have you changed anything in your preparations during the time when you haven't been able to win as much? 
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: Not really. Not really. No, I tried to be concentrate and staying focus on every ball. 

 Q. Talk a little bit more about how big of a win this is for you. I mean, first win since March, right? I mean tour level, not a Challenger. 
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: Yeah, for sure it's very important. You know, actually you wait for this match, and I lost like few matches when I was one, two point from victory. It's really tough to digest, how you can say like.
 Of course you expect every match you can win, but sometimes it can be opposite, when you want to win so much and it's not happens. 
 Today I didn't think about. Of course I know he's a very good player, played very, very good in Montréal. So for me, it was not easy. I just trying to put my tactic like on the court and try to use that. 

 Q. You had a very good start to the year with Kazakhstan beating Czech Republic in Davis Cup, which was considered a pretty big upset. What did that victory mean for you and for Kazakhstan tennis?
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: It was very important of course to beat Czech in Ostrava. It was not easy. It was the first match for us in World Group, and to win the No. 3 seed, nobody expected maybe us to.
 But I think -- it was just great three days, and we were happy to stay in World Group for one more year. We see what we can do next year. 

 Q. Your sort of streak started shortly after that, not winning. Can you point to something that caused the beginning of the losing streak?
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: What? 

 Q. Can you point to something that happened that caused you to start losing more?
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: No, because I had a little bit problem with my knee, but I continue playing. It was, you know, not really serious injury, but maybe in somewhere they disturbing me, but I don't want to say that's only because if you cannot play, you're not playing. So I couldn't play, but that's happens.
 It's like maybe not very good months of my tennis life, but I'm not killing myself. For me, the life continue. If you're losing, I think it's a lot of other much important things in your life.
 So of course it's -- you don't feel happy, but you have to be - I don't know how you say - patient and just working and wait for good matches. 

 Q. When you won, there wasn't like a big celebration. You just kind of breathed calmly. Were you very excited inside when you finally won today?
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: Yeah, of course. Inside, yes. I think it's normal. Yeah, of course I was happy.

 Q. Were you nervous? You double faulted on one of your first match points. 
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: Yeah.

 Q. Were you very nervous at that moment even though you had a big lead?
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: Yeah, little bit. I tried to force it little bit my second and I made double fault. But then, okay, the third match point I made a good first serve and was done. 

 Q. The Challenger you played was in Kazakhstan, did you get any advice or support from the Kazakh Federation that you were playing for while you were there? What was their reaction to you not playing as well now also?
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: I mean, of course they supporting me. And it's normal, you know, in this difficult moment in tennis life. Of course they trying to like -- they push you to do something, to change the situation.
 It's normal. I feel okay from that side. 

 Q. Now that you're winning, do you think you can keep winning at this tournament and beyond?
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: Of course. When you start you don't want to stop anymore. But for the moment it's just also we see the second match what happens.

 Q. The crowd seemed to be pulling more for Wawrinka Wawrinka than you most of the match. Do you notice that? 
 ANDREY GOLUBEV: No, it was some people who supported me, too. I think we didn't play in big court, so not so many guys can watch.
 But I think it was okay. Normal, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT