OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 14, 2016
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Just talk about the initial reaction about not only winning a Bronze Medal, but your round today, you needed something special and you did it.   
MATT KUCHAR: I couldn't be more proud. It's really hard to describe the feeling, the pride that I have, whether it's in myself, whether it's in my country. To come out to play an amazing round of golf and to know that it would take an amazing round of golf to medal, I couldn't be happier.   
   
 Q. What was it like having to watch the board a little bit, knowing that you're not just playing for first, but you're playing for first, second and third.   
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, I knew that I was playing some great golf, and really hoping to go as low as I could and possibly up the medal color. But 8‑under today, couldn't be happier.   
   
 Q. Can you put this into words? It was a great week and to put a cherry on it with the medal.  
MATT KUCHAR: It's just an amazing week. I keep expressing the feeling of sheer just pride. I knew when I was out there playing, there were times I knew I was in third place. Certainly didn't want to lose that but also wanted to keep pushing forward.   
It was a funny position to be in, but while I was out there, playing that back nine, the sense of being an Olympic Medalist really hit me. There were times I kind of had to back off a few times and regather my thoughts and composure to make sure I try to continue to hit good shots and keep making birdies.  
   
 Q. Is 2020 on your goal list four years from now?  
MATT KUCHAR: Absolutely. I'm such a fan of sports, and as a kid, it was a boyhood dream to qualify for an Olympics, and the sport I played, the game of golf was not an Olympic sport that I knew of in my time.   
For it to become an Olympic sport, it was certainly something I was really gunning for. Just to qualify for the team was really‑‑ it's a boyhood dream come true. I kind of lucked into the last spot. I had some great golf going through the final cutoff just to jump in the Top 15 of the World Rankings. I thought when I did end up making the Top 15, I thought, what an amazing thing. I really hoped to make the Rio team. To make it, and now to medal, is just a real thrill.  
   
 Q. Where are you going to put your medal?   
MATT KUCHAR: That's a good question. I have no idea. I think there's going to be a lot of showing it off for awhile. I don't know if it will stay still for very long.  
   
 Q. It will be like The Open Championship trophy; you can take it to every tournament and let people touch it.   
MATT KUCHAR: An easier one to travel with; you can't drink out of it, but you can travel with it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT