RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 21, 2016
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A good round, but I know No. 7 probably left a bitter taste.
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, it sure does.  I played nice, 5-under, was playing some good golf.  I was licking my shots on 7.  The pin looked beautiful for my shot shape.  It was back right.  It was a dangerous pin, and just kicking myself for trying to be aggressive and hitting it in close.  Got the best of me and hit it in the water.  So never fun to drop two shots, but all in all, it was a good day.
Q. The wind picked up right as you were hitting and gusting pretty big there.  Was the wind a factor for the second half of your round?
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, wind made it challenging.  Made it -- a lot more thought process went into shots and pulling them off.  The conditions are great.  Fun to see the ball run in the fairway.  It's kind of hard to keep them in the fairway because a lot of them run through.   Greens are firm and putt beautifully.  The course is in just outstanding shape right now.
Q. I was going to ask you about the greens, particularly on 8.  Looked like you hit a nice, soft shot and still bounded up the slope.
MATT KUCHAR: That's the thing, when the greens get firm, trying to get the ball close to the hole.  I landed it one two to paces short of the hole which in normal conditions, it's going to end up really close.  Had a 20-, 25-footer left.
It's tough to get balls really close to the hole.  But you're seeing a couple guys throw some pretty good numbers.  I finished 3-under and I'm pleased to be 3-under.
Q. How difficult was the wind out there?
MATT KUCHAR: It makes for a challenge.  The course is firm and fast and playing challenging.  If you're playing well, you can have some shorter irons and the ball is running 30 yards in the fairway.  You can get some shorter irons in.
But with the wind, with the greens being firm, the rough is light, but it actually adds for a bunch of flyers.  And trying to stop a ball on these greens out of the rough is a real challenge.
The course is in great shape, and throw In some 20-, 30-mile-an-hour winds, you've got a tricky golf course.
Q. Seems like a lot of the guys who teed off in the back, it's almost a case like last week, you get your birdies early and kind of hang on on the front side; is that accurate?
MATT KUCHAR: The front's definitely got some hard holes, but ones to take advantage of.  1 and 2 are certainly holes you can take advantage of today.  And then after that, there's some tough ones coming in.
Q. How would you assess your round?
MATT KUCHAR: Good, very good.  I certainly got going nicely.  I was 5-under and unfortunately I saw the pin on 7, and with my shot shape, I like playing little fades.  I thought that back right pin was going to be a beauty for me to go 6-under.  A little silly to attack that one, and I paid the price for it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT