TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 5, 2016
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I was with you yesterday and wasn't looking good through 10.  You were +3.  You played some super good golf the last 26 holes, including a solid second round.  Thoughts on how it's going?  
MATT KUCHAR: It was an ugly start for sure.  I four-putted the first hole.  It was not a fun way to start my week.  Things weren't going all that much better through ten holes.   
Knew I was hitting it well.  It was just a matter of kind of staying patient and had some putts go in.  Thankfully I did that on final nine and ended up turning a +3 through 10 into to 1-under for the day.   
Shot 3-under today, so game actually feels good.  I was glad to not let some bad holes get the best of me.   
 Q.  Was the course any different for you in the morning today?  
MATT KUCHAR: Greens are certainly smoother.  Come afternoon they're soft, and then when soft they tend to get a little bumpy in the afternoon.   
Other than that, the course is still awfully good and in good shape.  Birdies are out there.   
 Q.  Going to watch the opening ceremonies tonight?  
MATT KUCHAR: I'm excited to see that for sure.  I will have the kids with me.  I'm not taking the kids down.  I'll make sure to spend some time with the kids, let them stay up a little later, and watch the Olympic opening ceremonies.   
 Q.  Have to be pleased.  
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, a good steady round of golf.  (Indiscernible) shot 3-under today.  Yesterday got off to a bad start.  I was glad that I didn't let the bad start get the best of me.  Kind of plugged along and turned a bad round into a respectable round.  Now 4-under, so in a nice spot.   
 Q.  You're a veteran.  You've been around for a very long time.  Ryder Cup, Presidents Cup.  You've played in everything except for what you're playing in next week.  Is there a sense of anticipation that maybe you were looking ahead this week?  
MATT KUCHAR: No, I don't think so.  I'm awfully good about staying grounded and staying present.  I got off to a bad start.  I don't to attribute any of that to Rio.  Game of golf is a funny game.   
For me to 4-putt the first hole, I think putting is one of my strong suits, and so I just shake my head and go, You know what?  Got that out of the way.  Keep going.  Thankfully on the second hole I made about a 15-footer for birdie and say what a crazy game this is.   
I was just glad that I didn't let that get the best of me.  Right now I sit at 4-under, and with a good weekend, never know.  May have a chance.   
 Q.  Yeah, at this golf tournament, anybody that makes the cut has a chance every year.  
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, that's right.  This golf course I think offers a lot.  It offers challenging holes, holes that you want to get by on a par, and some gettable holes.   
So never know what leaders may do.  Some of those tough holes can be made difficult.  The rough is really thick this year.  There is a lot that can happen.  I'm certainly hoping for good things this weekend.   
I was very pleased yesterday afternoon to play some good golf.  I know I was hitting it well.  Just a matter of getting some putts to go in.  They did start going in and continued today.  Feel like I'm in pretty good control of the golf ball and feel like the game is rounding into some pretty decent shape.   
 Q.  Are the three of you getting together tonight to watch the opening ceremonies?  What are you going to do?  
MATT KUCHAR: We have no plans.  Right now certainly planning on going to the party tonight for Jay Fishman and the ALS Foundation.  I think that, and then we'll try to get back and like to sit with the kids for a little bit and show them what's going on.   
They're not making the trip to Rio, but like to have them with me and watch some of the opening ceremonies tonight.   
 Q.  Since you guys have all made the cut and will be here through Sunday, how do you plan to get down there?  Is there a jet waiting to get you down there?  
MATT KUCHAR: Sure, yeah, yeah.   
 Q.  Looking ahead to next week, I know there is no Ryder Cup points available, but do you kind of look at it as in some ways too a chance to showcase yourself again?  
MATT KUCHAR: You know, I do my best not to concern myself much with that.  I certainly have every hope and intention of making the Ryder Cup team, but trying focus with that in mind as a goal I never thought was a healthy way to play good golf.   
I go down next week and try to win a tournament, win a gold medal, and then when I play again at Barclays I will try to put the my name on the list of champions there as well.   
I never thought it was a healthy way to focus and worry about what sort of points or standings you were at.   
 Q.  Do you feel like a good performance carries a little weight?  
MATT KUCHAR: Every week.  You hope it's a year-long show, but I understand that the idea that the Olympics this week and the new idea of making sure you got guys playing well as close to the Ryder Cup as possible.  Certainly want the guys that are hot at the latest time.   
All weeks are important, but I think you kind of do a lot of judging on the year, the last two years, to figure out who is worth going.   
 Q.  Do you guys like tournaments like this where basically anyone who makes the cut has a shot and can win the tournament?  
MATT KUCHAR: I mean, this tournament, you certainly could have somebody 12, 13-under by the end of today.  That's certainly not knotted out of the realm.   
But I think if you're the guy that just makes the cut, yes, you like this sort of thing.  If you're a guy that's way in the lead, you like the fact that you've got a huge lead.   
 Q.  Has your experience been when you finish up as you did today that maybe that momentum can carry to the next round?  Can you talk about the experience of you three playing together the first rounds?  
MATT KUCHAR: Certainly a lot of fun.  A lot of USA chaining out there.  It was a great experience.  I know we're all very excited to get down to Rio, but we all think highly of TPC River Highlands and the Travelers Championship, so all want to perform very well here.   
As far as momentum, it always makes the afternoon or evening nicer, but not sure how much momentum really carries over.  Just a lot nicer way to finish than a bogey.   
 Q.  You were +3 for ten holes yesterday and you fought your way back.  
MATT KUCHAR: It wasn't going my way.  I know crazy things happen in the game of golf.  I was pleased to not let that get the best of me and still have a good round of golf.   
 Q.  When you were speaking to the media before the start of the tournament, you said, I know we have the Olympics, but the focus is on the Travelers Championship.  You're proving it now.  
MATT KUCHAR: I really enjoy the golf course, the tournament.  Travelers is a great sponsor.  This is an event I look forward to.  I played this as a junior in the Cannon Cup, so I've got some long-standing memories.  I really enjoy it.   
 Q.  Are you the chief needler in the Olympic group the last couple days?  
MATT KUCHAR: It's certainly been a lot of fun.  We had Patrick Reed having a birthday out there today.  It was a fun two days.  Bunch of USA chanting.  Just gets you fired up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT