AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 22, 2016
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Matt Kuchar, ultimately you finish a shot shy of the playoff.  What's the overriding emotion, missing on a chance to win or a strong week, pleased with that?
MATT KUCHAR: Sitting at 14-under with the opportunities as you look back on today and all the putts that seemed to go by, I was awfully frustrated.
First hole I thought I hit a great par saving putt that slid by.  9th hole missed the putt.  Kind of felt like that.  Then I think there's a par 3, 13, hit an amazing putt I still shake my head at.
I look at the week as I whole I made a lot of putts.  Hard to kick yourself over not making some today.  But, playing some good golf.  I thought It was going to take 17-under to do this thing and all of a sudden when it's 15-under, wow, I'm right there.  It makes it a little hard to swallow.
Q. Tied for 3rd last week at The Players, 3rd again here this week.  Sixty Top-10s since 2010.  Do you feel that that next win is close by?
MATT KUCHAR: I'm excited about my game, excited about the form.  Can't wait for next week to get here.  So, hopefully this just rolls into a great summer.
Q. Matt, just talk about your round.  Sounds like it was a frustrating day on the greens for you today.
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, it was.  I had so many that just slipped by and a lot of good putts which was frustrating but I look back on the week and I made a lot early in the week so they tend to even out.
You hope you get those weeks where it's all one-sided and they all go in but hit a couple really good ones that didn't fall today from short range which is frustrating and it's a bit more bittersweet when you get so close to winning.
Out here you play to win and to get so close it makes it a little more frustrating.  If I had lost by 3 it's an easier pill to swallow than being 1 back.  But, I'm still pleased with my form, still pleased with my golf and looking forward to carrying on for a good summer.
Q. Matt, what was the feeling after the birdie on 16 about your position and what you might be able to do on the last two holes?
MATT KUCHAR: They're tricky incoming two holes.  In that situation, I got a chance, I need to pull off some good shots and do my best to play to win this golf tournament.  I hit a really nice shot on 17 and almost too good.  18, not a great drive.  From there I'm lucky to make birdie and even make par from there is a good score.
So, not a great drive but certainly not an easy drive, either.  That's one of the hardest ones, wind off the left, water left.  That's a tricky drive.
Q. Matt, given how you played the last two weeks, how much better do you feel about your game than you did maybe a few weeks ago?
MATT KUCHAR: I feel back to the golf I feel like I used to play.  Last year was certainly an off year, frustrating year.  I feel like now I'm playing the golf that I remember playing or it's quality shot after quality shot and not many mistakes and chances to win golf tournaments.
Golf is a lot more fun when you're playing well, that's for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT