AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 21, 2016
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kuch, stop me if you've heard this before but well played.  65.  Back into contention yet another Tour week.
MATT KUCHAR: It was a good day.  I certainly scored really well today.  When I had a wedge in my hand I was taking advantage, whether it was to make a birdie from the fairway or even just getting up and down around the greens.  Seemed to really score well today.  Awfully nice on a Saturday to get the ball in the hole and post a nice number and to have a chance for tomorrow.
Q. That's the big question isn't it, you had a big chance at The Players, you played yourself into that tournament for 3rd.  This week you're right there or thereabouts.  How much harder are you going to push tomorrow for the win?
MATT KUCHAR: Wins are way more fun than Top-5 is.  You kind of go with what you got.  You do the best with whatever you've got that day and, you know, hopefully you get it going on Sunday.  No good to force things and make bogies and doubles but when you can, you need to try to play to win because that's what we're all out here for.
Q. All told, what was the rhythm that you found on the back-9?
MATT KUCHAR: I scored really well today.  When I got a wedge in my hand I was doing some good things with it.  Missed greens, I was getting up and down.  If it was the fairway, I was hitting it close and making the putts.
Putt on the last, to be able to make a 20-footer for birdie.  There was -- it wasn't my best striking day but I really managed well.  I really kind of stayed out of trouble.  I hit balls in the fairway.  Wasn't missing a whole lot of greens.  If I was, I was missing in places I could go ahead and get up and down.
Pleased and hoping to strike it better and have a few more chances tomorrow, but really go out and shoot 5-under today and a chance come tomorrow is just what I wanted to have happen.
Q. What do you perceive needing in the final round to be able to lift the trophy at the Bryon Nelson?
MATT KUCHAR: Be a great leaderboard.  It will be fun.  Take some low scoring.  Course is still great.  The course is soft and where you can be aggressive, try to take advantage and so I imagine it's going to take a really, really good score by somebody tomorrow to win this thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT