DEAN & DELUCA INVITATIONAL
May 28, 2016
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  67 yesterday, much better.  Come on, let's see it.  
MATT KUCHAR: I like being able to do this, showing how this board works.  There's nothing good about 7s.  I had a good lie in the bunker.  I was going ahead and playing aggressive off the tee, hit it in the fairway bunker, and those bunkers yesterday off the rain are firm packed, and it was a good lie, and it was just a lousy shot.  Today was much better, a whole lot more red.  I started off on the back nine and made the turn and got off to a fantastic start.  It was just a fun run of holes there.   
 Q.  When you finish like you did last night and then come back out, do you put it out of your mind and say let's go forward today and see what happens?  
MATT KUCHAR: I was playing really good golf.  Had a great week last week, came in this week playing good.  I don't know what happened, shooting 3-over, then got it going yesterday into the final hole.  So I knew that I had good golf in there.  Then came back out steady kind of the opening nine and then birdies made on that second nine.   
 Q.  This is such a great golf course.  We've heard you guys talk about it all week.  You must enjoy coming here.  
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, one of my favorites weeks here.  The golf course is wonderful.  The whole atmosphere here, we get great support.  The clubhouse is great.  Everyone takes care of it.  This is certainly a highlight of the year.   
 Q.  What do the leaders have to look at?  What are some of the tough pin positions coming in?  
MATT KUCHAR: Well, there are definite birdie chances.  Tough pin positions on 16, 17 is a gettable par-4, 18 is a good drive, definitely gettable hole to come in with.  But this is a course where good shots you make birdie, and if you're just off, the bogey is right there, as well.   
 Q.  Talk about the 29 coming in.  
MATT KUCHAR: Started with a par-5, was able to get birdie there on the first.  Second hole was very gettable with a drive in the fairway, which I hit a good drive and it was just a sand wedge in.  From there played some really good golf.  There's some hard holes, 3, 4, 5 are really tough, and I was able to birdie 4 and 5, nearly birdied the 3rd.  So getting through 3, 4 and 5, 2-under par, was a really good score.  6 was gettable, made birdie at 6, made birdie at 7.  8 is a hard hole, back pin today.  8 just a steady par.  And then 9, after making triple there yesterday I put it in the right rough and wasn't real pleased about my situation, played a safe shot, and only had like 20 feet down the hill, and it nearly made it for 28.  But all in all, I got on a great run, and shooting 29 coming in was awfully nice.   
 Q.  They're saying that other than one hole, you played better than anyone else the last two rounds here.  
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, absolutely.  My last two rounds have been great.  Shame to finish with triple last night, but it's a funny game, and I keep plugging along.   
 Q.  Did you stew over that very much last night?  
MATT KUCHAR: I wasn't happy for a half hour and then went to dinner and forgot about it.   
 Q.  What is it about this course that suits your game?  
MATT KUCHAR: Oh, the course is fantastic, one of the best of the year.  It requires all shots, requires you to work the ball both ways.  One of my favorite events and weeks of the year is Hilton Head.  Here is not too dissimilar.  It's tight, it's tree-lined.  If you hit it off line you can make some fun recovery shots, but driving the ball is just a crucial element of playing well here.   
 Q.  When you look at your 54 holes (inaudible)?  
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, surprising to have a first round of 3-over.  I had such a good week last week, I'm on really good form.  I was surprised to be 3-over.  It was just an awkward day.  And then certainly disappointing -- I'll probably come tomorrow night if I'm not in the winner's circle, I'll certainly look back and go, son of a gun, a handful of situations that I wish went differently.  But right now I'm on 7-under, and I'll do my best and see how many under I can go tomorrow.   
 Q.  How much has the course firmed up since the rain Friday morning?  
MATT KUCHAR: None.   
 Q.  You've gone from plus 3 to even to minus 7.  What can you look forward to tomorrow?  
MATT KUCHAR: Well, there's a lot of good names on the leaderboard.  I am going to have to try to go more and more under par tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT