WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2016
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MATT KUCHAR: I played some great golf.  I got off to a good start, birdied the first.  Putting was good, short game was good, but in particular driving was really good.  I never seemed to put myself in trouble off the tee.  I was always in play, and hit good shots in from there.
Q. What is the best strategy for you that has been working for you on this golf course?
MATT KUCHAR: I don't change a whole lot for match play, from match play to stroke play.  Try to look at this course and try to figure out strategy, certainly we've had three completely different days of golf so far.  Not sure what tomorrow we'll have, but winds have been different.  Winds have been completely different from the first two days, and today was just a light version.
But for me it's not making mistakes.  It's forcing the other guy to beat you.  It's making pars, having chances for birdies, and trying to wear a guy out and if he can throw in a bunch of birdies, good for him.
Q. You have Brooks Koepka tomorrow?
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah.
Q. What do you know about his game?  He's very complimentary of yours.
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, he's a fantastic player.  Hits the ball long, solid.  A really good player.  I heard he lost today, but kind of the goofiness of this format is he's still playing.
And I'll just plod along the same way I've done the first three rounds.  I've been playing some good golf and certainly not going to change much going into tomorrow.
Q. And potentially if you get to the final match, you play 72 holes over the weekend or somewhere in that vicinity, anything that you do differently to try to stay off your feet or rest?
MATT KUCHAR: No, it will be an early night, for sure.  There's a lot of potential golf ahead of me.  But fortunately this course had some hills, but it's not many big gaps between greens and tees.  So you finish a round of golf you're not as worn out as some courses would lead you to be.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT