AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 19, 2016
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You tied for 3rd 3 at The Players.  How much of your play today was a function or carryover from last week?  
MATT KUCHAR: Certainly I was playing well last week.  That course demands you playing some good golf.  I think you see a lot of guys week after Majors tend -- you put in so much work going into a big event, Major championship event like The Players Championship and I got on some good forms and certainly continuing the good form this week.   
 Q.  When you look at the Olympics standing right now you have 6 Americans between you and making the team.  How much is that on your mind as we get closer and closer to July?  
MATT KUCHAR: I'm not one to watch lists, Ryder Cup lists.  I just don't ever see how paying attention to that can help you.  You go out and try to play your best every week and trying too worry too much about some stuff you can't control, I never felt it was very helpful to me, healthy at all.  I don't watch.  I just go out and try to take care of business and play good golf.   
 Q.  Matt, four Top-10s already this season.  What's the key for win No. 8?  
MATT KUCHAR: It provides a lot of chances.  This has tough holes and birdieable holes.  Around here you got to drive the ball.  There's four, five holes that demand you to hit really good shots, kind of you just have to step up and go ahead and pull off a good shot I was able to do that today and hopefully three more days like this.   
 Q.  The long day you're so used to it, everybody is used to it but it still isn't exactly what you wanted.  Did it affect you in anyway?  Didn't seem to with the final scoring.  
MATT KUCHAR: I don't think you'll see guys being affected by it.  Part of something you get used to.  This is one of the weeks you actually are okay with that extra delay.  Lot of guys stay right on-site.  You still crawl back into bed.   
You don't have to go down and kind of wait around in some sort of kind of locker room facility.  You can just go right back to bed and hang out.  I did that.  I went back with my wife and kids are still in the room.  Got to hang out with them.  It was an easy way to let the delay go by.   
 Q.  Your front-9 was pretty good, too.  It didn't seem to affect you much.  Seemed like you came out, hit some pretty good shots.  
MATT KUCHAR: Got off to a nice day.  Played -- 10th hole played hard, my first.  Got away with par.  And 11, short par 4 that anything can happen and played two good shots, made a birdie there and kind of kept it going.  It was -- obviously great control on the front-9.   
When we turn the wind picked up right when we turned.  Stretch of holes for about a half hour played really tough.  I hit good shots, still walk away with bogies.  I feel like I'm in awfully good control of what I'm doing right now.   
 Q.  Two bogies and still get 5-under.  Pretty good round.  Despite that fact, you like to have those back but all considered, 65 not bad?  
MATT KUCHAR: Pretty pleased to start with 65 today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT