PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 4-under today.  Talk about your day?
MATT KUCHAR: It was beautiful conditions.  This was definitely the time to take advantage of the golf course.  Probably as easy as we have seen this place play.  It was nice.  I think this was the earliest I've teed off in a long time.  But once I got here, it was great to be playing good golf.  Off the start, birdied my first two holes, 10 and 11.  Played good golf.
Had a couple bogeys there on the incoming stretch of that back nine.  But then got it around, saw a few putts go in on my second nine, middle of the front nine.  And 4-under par today is a nice way to start.
Q. Are you a morning person or not a morning person?
MATT KUCHAR: Pretty good about being a morning person.  Just on the PGA TOUR, 7:15 is kind of on the very early end of tee times, and it's been awhile since I've had that first tee time.  So it was an early start, but not too bad, really.
Q. Is there any advantage to that like in terms of the crowd or anything?
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, you could say that the greens are pristine.  We're the first few people to walk on them in the morning.  So they were just in great shape those first couple groups that go out on play.
Q. (No Microphone.)
MATT KUCHAR: No, the wind picked up more than I thought it would on the incoming holes, certainly it was nice to be out there at 7:15 and have very still conditions.  And now it's blowing kind of 15, it's a more challenging golf course at the moment.  But as far as pin locations, tee setup, it was great how the PGA of America does a good job and very playable setup of the golf course.  Don't mind if a guy shoots 6- or 7-under.  You're talking about the best players in the world coming out and playing the golf course.  So you don't find things that are too tricked up, it's a good test of golf.
Q. (No Microphone.)
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, it's a great start.  Certainly happy to be 4-under at this point.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT