WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 29, 2015
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MATT KUCHAR:   I played really well.   Seemed like the turning point was there at 13, 4.   I had a nice approach shot.   He missed the green.   He made a 15‑footer for par.   I missed an 8‑footer for birdie and then I bogeyed 14.   Looked I was going to go 2‑up and then all of sudden we're even.   We both played well from there on in.   I had a chance to square it and keep going on the last, but missed a 5‑footer.

Q.   What is your reaction when you see a guy's ball go in the hole from 235?
    MATT KUCHAR:   It was an awesome shot.   If it doesn't go in the hole, it's such a good shot.   It was tight and he's going to make 2 anyway.   I'm going to lose to a 2 on that hole anyway.   So you kind of go, well, match play is better than stroke play in that situation.   Glad it's match play.

Q.   You hit a decent shot afterward?
    MATT KUCHAR:   Just to hit that green is a feat.   I had 25 feet up the hill.   It was a really good shot.   It's one of those things, most likely I'm making 3 there and 2‑down on that hole.   It's one down and I've got a chance on 18.

Q.   Did you say anything to him?   Joke with him? 
    MATT KUCHAR:   High‑fived him.   Heck of a shot.   It was beautiful the whole way.

Q.   You had a lead a lot of the day.   Was it the case of just not able to stretch it?
    MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, the difference was at 13, 14.   Missed a makeable birdie putt.   He made a good par save.   He played really steady, good golf.   He had a couple of balls hang up on the edge of the cup that didn't go in.   Both of us played well.

Q.   With the new format, what is the new mindset?   Can you still get back in this thing? 
    MATT KUCHAR:   You guys might have to explain to me.   I'm still learning how it all works.   If we're each 2 & 1, let's say, he'd win. 

Q.   Head‑to‑head tie breaker?
    MATT KUCHAR:   If Hunter is 2 & 1, as well.

Q.   Then you play it off. 
    MATT KUCHAR:   All right.   A lot has to work out now. 

Q.   Some guys have said they wanted to approach it as do or die each match.   If you lose the first one, for instance, you are kind of behind the eight ball the rest of the way.   Did you feel that kind of do or die intensity on Day 1?
    MATT KUCHAR:   Nobody wants to lose.   I can assure you of that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT