RBC HERITAGE
April 18, 2015
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You picked up one shot on the lead, but it was a struggle at times out there.   But you held yourself together quite well.   
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I thought I was playing really well.   I probably had the best hitting I've had so far this week.   I drove it really well.   I think that shot on the 7th hole, hit a beautiful iron shot, par‑3, and going right for the pin, but there's a tree that hangs out right where the pin was standing, and caught the tree and kicked out and made a double.   Aside from that, if that doesn't go the way it did, I picked up a couple more shots and I'm feeling pretty good.   
I'm still feeling good.   The last couple of holes I was really shooting to try to make a birdie, try to get in that last group, so I could be there tomorrow afternoon.   But playing in the second‑to‑last group and see if I can make a push tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Looked like you and Troy were having a good time out there today.   
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, he's a good young player.   I've known him for a while.   I knew him in Q‑School a few years ago.   He's had a couple good friends of mine caddie for him, so I've gotten to know him pretty well.   I really enjoy playing with him.   Good to seeing him have some success out here.  
   
 Q.   As a defending champion and member of the RBC Ambassador Team, what does it mean to you to play well here this week?  
MATT KUCHAR:   You really hope to.   I know a lot of the things that RBC does for all of us.   It's been great to see the lineage that RBC has had d the past winners from Jim Furyk to Brandt Snedeker to Graeme McDowell and myself.   They've done well.   We're going to try to continue that tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Yet another sub‑70 round for Matt Kuchar here in Harbour Town.   Are you satisfied with your performance today?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I played pretty well.   It was by far my best striking.   Putted well, as well.   There's just that one unlucky bounce.   I hit a beautiful shot on the 7th hole.   It was flag hunting, and there's a tree that hangs out over the green protecting that, and it was like a Dikembe Mutombo swat away from the basket.   That was tough.   
Aside from that, I really played some nice golf.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow you're going to be chasing the lead.   You did trim the deficit for you at least to three now.   How do you approach tomorrow playing the same group as the leader‑‑  
MATT KUCHAR:   I think I'm going to be one back.   I think there are a couple of guys that finished early.   So I think I'm in the second‑to‑last group, which I was gunning for birdie on one of those last three holes, 16, 17, 18.   Hoping I could make birdie.   Hoping I could get in the last group and close the gap just a little bit.   
But came from two groups back.   I finished early last year, and hoping I can make a run and shoot a good number tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Does it parallel, to have the same emotions and feelings as last year?  
MATT KUCHAR:   It was beautiful today.   Today was just a spectacular day.   We saw last year it was some nasty with some horrible weather.   I got it going on Sunday, but it was certainly some work.   Today to finish on 18 with the sun shining, and the boats in the harbor, and it was beautiful round of golf.   I'm hoping I can make another run and see if I can do my best to defend the title.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round today.   You felt comfortable in the final group?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I played well.   Unfortunately I don't think I'll be in the final group tomorrow. I think I'll be in the second‑to‑last group.   But I was trying those last couple of holes to see if I could close the deficit a little and see if I could get in that final group.   
I think today was my best hitting of the ball so far.   Really striking it well, driving it well.   Had a lot of chances to be aggressive and make some birdies.   Just the one unlucky break was on the 7th hole.   I hit a tee shot on the par‑3 that was flag high, and there's a big tree that kind of overhangs the green, and basically rejected my shot like Dikembe Mutombo would have rejected a shot.   It was frustrating to see.   But I think that's one of the things that makes this course unique.   I knew that going in.   I could tell that the tree's overhanging.   And you had to kind of play to the right half of that green.   And I had one going right at the fairway, and it was too dangerous.  
   
 Q.   Going early tomorrow; does that change your approach or anything?  
MATT KUCHAR:   No, no.   I hope that it all works out well.   I think that the Tour does a good job of forecasting the weather, doing a good job to give us the best conditions to finish on time.   So we'll be in threesomes.   
It really doesn't make a difference.   We all hope to play in some decent conditions tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   How big were those two birdie holes?  
MATT KUCHAR:   It was nice to bounce straight back.   It felt like it was just a bounceback.   I birdied 8 and 9 and I hit a great drive and great shot on 10, and had an awful kick to the bunker and had a bogey there.   But it was nice to then bounce back with a birdie on 11.   
Those birdies on 8 and 9 were awful good to bounce right back like that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT