RBC HERITAGE
April 16, 2015
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Game wasn't what you wanted but you scored well out there today.   3‑under par, 68 in difficult conditions.   
MATT KUCHAR:   All in all I was really pleased.   18 was playing really hard into the wind.   I hit a bail‑out of a second shot, but that was the place to bail‑out and I was able to get up and down.   But for the most part I felt in really good control of what I was doing and played some nice golf.  
   
 Q.   You come back as defending champion, obviously conditions a little bit different, but we always love conditions difficult here at Harbour Town.   What is your game plan when you go out there and you come in as defending champion?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Funny, the forecast I was looking from last week and this week, beautiful forecast, 80s and 90s.   I threw one sweater in just in case, just in case I needed it.   Turns out I needed it.   And you come out this morning and it's kind of cold, kind of windy, it's going to be tough out there.   
A lot of fun for me to get back on the course, having the great memories from last year.   This is a place I think everybody loves.   I came out looking forward to getting on the course, playing, trying to defend the title.   And this course just gets me excited again playing golf.   
   
 Q.   Obviously even though it's different than Augusta National, it still plays pretty tough.   A lot of people come here for a little rest, it's more relaxing.   But the golf course, itself, is not any easier.   
MATT KUCHAR:   No.   It's a course you really feel like you're playing chess on.   You really feel like you have to move your golf ball, position in the right spots.   Center of the fairway, you pretty much always take around here, sometimes you have to weave it right side, left side.   You have to really hit some different shots.   You feel like you've really got to do some shot shaping, shot making around here.   It's a fun challenge and somewhere I think all the players enjoy coming to.  
   
 Q.   How happy are you with your 3‑under par round?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Very happy.   Very happy.   A couple of holes played really hard.   18 again, even with an up tee played really hard.   Hit a great drive and still had 185 but into the wind, thinking there is not many places to hit this shot right now.   I bailed out right and was able to get up and down and it was the place to miss it.   
But the course played hard.   It's a tough golf course without wind.   You throw in the wind and it becomes really challenging.  
   
 Q.   What was one of the toughest parts of the day?   Was it off the tee?   Maybe your approach shots on the green?  
MATT KUCHAR:   There's just a handful of holes that play really hard.   There's the par‑3, I think it's 14, just try to survive.   18, of course, is one of those holes you're trying to survive.   There's a handful you try to get through.   You try to take advantage of the par 5s.   Par 5s are all holes you can score on out here.   You have to kind of pick and choose and play it safe for the most part and then try to take advantage of those par 5s.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT