HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 22, 2015
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A solid round, despite the closing bogey.   How was your day?
MATT KUCHAR:   It was really good.   I had a great time.   Enjoyed it.   This is probably the first time I've really got to spend a lot of time with Patrick Reed and enjoy playing with him.   We had two great partners as well. 
This course here, La Quinta, is fantastic, fun course, challenging, tight off the tees and in great shape.   The greens are just spectacular.   If you're inside of 10 feet you're looking at making these putts.

Q.   This event seems to fit your personality you're out there mingling with the crowd and amateurs, how much fun is it for you to come back here every year?
MATT KUCHAR:   The weather like this that's what everybody comes here for.   At this time of year there's no better weather.   You feel good to be out side, you unfortunately good to be out playing and getting around these great golf courses with good people, so it's fun for me to be here and certainly helps to make a lot of birdies as well. 

Q.   A bit of an up‑and‑down finish for you, but with the birdie and bogey, still a good finish?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, it's never fun to bogey the last, but still it was a nice day.   I scrambled really well.   I wasn't hitting it my best, but was fantastic around the greens and the course is in fantastic shape.   You get anywhere inside of 10 feet you feel pretty good on these greens.   They're rolling out beautifully.   It was a nice day.   I enjoyed playing with Patrick Reed and our amateur guests it was a nice day.

Q.   Obviously playing with a guy who obviously loves playing here like Patrick, does it help you when you're playing with somebody whose playing as well as he is, you keep playing with each other and keep playing and pushing each other?
MATT KUCHAR:   He plays some beautiful golf, he was just striping it.   Couple putts burned the edges.   I mean, he really could have had a great day.   I was just kind of scrambling and grinding and doing my best to keep up.   Fortunately, I was able to keep up and make some birdies out there. 

Q.   Some people don't obviously always like playing with the amateurs, you seem to be perfect for it, attitude‑wise and everything.   You enjoy playing with the guys?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I sure do.   Generally you play with some great people, you make some new friends, it's a good day. 

Q.   Put up another couple of 62 or 36 in the next few days and you'll be right in the hunt?
MATT KUCHAR:   That's the plan.   These scores will be low I'm sure and the people come out to palm strings for weather like this that's why we love coming out and with conditions like these you expects guys to shoot some pretty low numbers. 

Q.   You had a 7‑under round, great round, but how much has that 18th hole at the green really going to keep you up tonight?
MATT KUCHAR:   I don't lose any sleep.   That's part of golf.   It's a bummer, nobody likes bogeying 18.   I missed a 3‑footer it horseshoed around, it's no fun, but I scrambled and putted and chipped nicely and took advantage of the par‑5's today.   So, it was an all in all a very good day.

Q.   How nice was it to be able to play bogey‑free until that 18th where it just didn't go your way?
MATT KUCHAR:   It was good.   I was in a number of sticky situations there and made some good recoveries, so it's, it is fun to play bogey‑free, if you can do it.   Let one go on the last, but I had a great day it was fun. 
I played with Patrick Reed who I really ‑‑ first time I got to spend a lot of time with him on the course ‑‑ and enjoyed playing with him.   He's a fantastic player, he just stripes the ball beautifully.   So I was really just trying to keep up with him.   As defending champion, he knows these places pretty well and I was trying to follow suit the best I could.

Q.   Everybody says you need to score low to try to win this tournament, so far you're not too shabby at 7‑under.   What do you need to continue to keep doing when you hit the next two courses?
MATT KUCHAR:   I think all of us loving coming out to Palm Springs with perfect conditions, we got just a perfect day today and the forecast is more of same.   So guys will be going low, shooting some good numbers, 7‑under is a pretty nice start.   If I can just kind of keep that momentum going, it will be a solid four days.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT