FRYS.COM OPEN
October 11, 2014
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What a strong finish.   I know you didn't convert the birdie putt at 18, but still, you played the last three holes in 3‑under. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, it was great.   Yesterday had a couple chances and played the last three holes even par, so today to play the last three holes 3‑under is much better and a pretty fun way to finish the day.

Q.   They moved the tees up at 17.   Tell me about your drive and the birdie putt we had measuring at 292 yards today. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, that's a great drive.   That's a long way for me to hit the ball.   I worked a bit with Chris O'Connell on a shot to be able to hit it really high off the tee to carry it a little farther, and it required a carry of kind of 280 yards‑ish.   That's really long for me, but was able to put the thing up in the air and get it to land just over that bunker.   It was a great drive and rolled up kind of six feet away and was able to convert the eagle.

Q.   I was just as impressed with your front nine when you made the turn in just 1‑under because you retained patience out there only making the turn at 1‑under. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I played really well.   I had opportunities kind of the first three holes, really close putts and just wasn't able to convert.   Finally had one fall in on 4 and I missed a short one on 5, so I was‑‑ I had a lot of chances, and yeah, you're right, to just be 1‑under was a bit disappointing, but at the same time I know that things‑‑ you stay positive and you stay patient, good things happen, and I was able to make a good run on the back nine.

Q.   What do you think about Sunday?
MATT KUCHAR:   Excited.   To be in contention on Sunday, golf gets fun, golf gets exciting.   The first tournament of the year and having a chance on a golf course that I think is a lot of fun, I'm excited for tomorrow.

Q.   Those last three holes are going to be big on Sunday, aren't they? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, those last three will be exciting for sure. 

Q.   What clicked at the turn?   Sounds like you were playing well. 
MATT KUCHAR:   I played well.   I played good golf.   I had a couple short ones and made a couple putts, as well.   I hit one really close on 11 and made that, and I made a 20‑footer on 12 that kind of got me going.   I was playing good.   On the front nine I had opportunities kind of every hole, so it was a good round.   You play 18 holes, you don't just play nine, so a couple went in on the back side.

Q.   Is the back nine more scorable? 
MATT KUCHAR:   I don't necessarily think so, but certainly the last few holes, 16, 17 and 18 are all gettable.   I think those last few holes will be awfully exciting tomorrow.

Q.   What did you do last week during your time off?
MATT KUCHAR:   I spent a couple days unpacking, played a good bit of tennis.   What else did we do?   It was just a pretty low‑key week.   I did a charity event for Stewart Cink Monday of this week, so I left Sunday.   A little shorter than normal, but other than that, it was just get some relaxation.

Q.   You didn't play any golf?
MATT KUCHAR:   No, I knew I was coming out.   I played a couple days, probably started Thursday or Friday getting back into it.

Q.   You wouldn't really call that an off‑season, though, would you?
MATT KUCHAR:   No, not an off‑season.   I joked with Hunter Mahan, I hit a draw off the first tee, draw is not my natural shot, my natural shot is a little fade, and they were joking that I picked up a new shot in my off‑season. 

Q.   While unpacking. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Exactly.

Q.   How fun is it to hit it so close on a par‑4 and have that experience of having such a short putt like that on a hole like that? 
MATT KUCHAR:   It's a unique, fun hole.   I think it's great in the fact that you get a lot of people doing different things, whether it's‑‑ it's not a hole 100 percent of the field is going for.   You get guys still laying up.   It's a tricky one to go for and a tricky pin.   I pulled off kind of a perfect shot, a 1‑in‑20, 1‑in‑30 shot that rolled up there to six feet, and it makes for an exciting hole.

Q.   Do you expect them to move the tees up like that tomorrow?
MATT KUCHAR:   I assume.   I think people had a lot of fun with it.   I assume that they'll probably do the same, just give it some more excitement for tomorrow. 

Q.   Being in contention help you fight off some fatigue from Scotland, get the juices flowing again?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, it certainly helps.   Tomorrow will be exciting.   You could go around here and kind of drag at even par and not be too into it.   Certainly I'll be full on into it come tomorrow afternoon. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT