DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2014
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. A difficult couple of days for Matt, his wife Sybi, also, with his caddie, Lance Bennett, not being here after the passing of his wife Angela on Wednesday morning.  How difficult were the couple of days leading up to this tournament to prepare for this tournament were they for you, Matt?MATT KUCHAR: It's hard to describe the difficulties.  It's been really hard knowing the circumstances.  Amazing to see the out pouring of support of messages, to me, onwards to Lance and the Bennett family.  I've got to say the first tee shot struck me really difficult.  I teed it up and saw all the guys putting on their all black hats, putting on the ribbons, and saw the tribute. But when it got to the first tee and thoughts of Angie came to me, I welled up, and it was a tough one, and certainly thinking of Lance and Angie my entire round.Q. Was there ever a thought that you might not tee it up today?MATT KUCHAR: There wasn't.  That first tee almost made me say I can't do this.  I just don't have the head, the strength to go on.  But I thought that I could be a lot more useful out here, spreading the word, being out here, trying to raise the funds, that Lance can help out with Angie.  I thought I could be more useful being out here trying to help the best I can.Q. (Inaudible.)MATT KUCHAR: It has been, my caddie lost his wife Tuesday night, Wednesday morning.  Really tough circumstances.  My caddie is part of the family.  Caddie's family is part of my family. It's one of those things, I couldn't imagine how I would survive without my wife, as a father and a couple of children.  Lance is the father of a four year old little girl.  And it's those sad things, things you wish wouldn't happen and shouldn't happen.  But unfortunately they do. This has been a tough week for me.  I managed it in the last couple of days, I had so many people come up saying their best wishes to Lance and family.  It's been an amazing outpouring of support. I got to the first tee, and thought I was doing pretty well.  But as that name was announced and ready to pull the trigger, it was all I could think about.  I had a really tough time holding back tears.Q. So after you got that first tee shot away, did you find some sort of respite between the ropes or was it just a tough deal all around?MATT KUCHAR: Last couple of days it certainly has been.  There was a lot of thoughts of kind of being there.  It was hard to get away from the thoughts today, for sure.  All I could think of was to try to play the best I can, to help out in any way I can.  Hoping she's looking down, maybe helping me out a little bit.Q. 2-under par round of 69, was some of that because of the afternoon conditions?MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, not bad.  I'm pretty pleased.  2-under is a pretty decent start out here.  Some guys look like they went pretty low out there.  This course, the greens are firm.  The greens are beautiful.  They're playing really well.  8-under par, I wasn't sure 8 was out there.  But 5 or 6 was certainly obtainable.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT