THE BARCLAYS
August 23, 2014
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Good to be back at Ridgewood and good vibes? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, this place, just when I pulled in for the first day on Tuesday was awfully excited to get back, pull into the parking lot and remember the last time I was here was with the trophy Sunday night was a great experience and brought back some great memories.
And then to get out on the golf course and remember what a great golf course this is, one of the best we play any year.   It's a special place and it certainly brought back some good memories and some good golf out of me.

Q.   They say horses for courses; the fact that you won here before, does that give you confidence? 
MATT KUCHAR:   It may not be the ultimate layout for me.   I play a left‑to‑right ball.   This golf course has a lot of right‑to‑left holes.   It might not be the course I would say is tailor‑made for my game. 
But I've certainly played some awfully good golf here.   I feel like my game's developed to a point where I feel like I can play good on a lot of different courses. 
This one demands some great driving and I feel like that's one of my strengths is ing the ball in the fairway, particularly this week with the rough being as penalizing as it is.   For the most part I've stayed out of the rough.

Q.   A few of us were talking a minute ago, the victory in 2010 kick started you moving up the World Ranking. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, this one for sure.   It was a big win.   Before that, I won the Honda, I won Turning Stone but this is the one that kind of beat a world‑class field on a world‑class golf course and kind of set me up to keep moving forward. 

Q.   It doesn't seem like four years.   Does it seem really quick to you?
MATT KUCHAR:   It does.   It does seem really quick.   Hard to believe it's been four years since we were last year.   I kind of‑‑ this one out of all the ones in the rotation, I kind of wish we played more often. 
Sounds like we are going to hit Liberty National a few more times in the upcoming years but I'm a fan of Liberty, as well.   I had a good stretch last year there, and I think the rotation of golf courses is a good thing.   You mentioned horses for courses; I think there is some of that at different places.   You know, when you have the rotation, you get a bigger variety of players that have a chance. 

Q.   What was the key to your round today? 
MATT KUCHAR:   The key around here is always driving the ball well.   Saw a few s go in, was nice.   Made one I didn't think would go in.   I think I just missed a short one on the par5, 13, and then made one from just off the green on 14.   That was awfully nice to see that one go in and played some really good golf from there in. 

Q.   What have you done to get your back back in shape, what sort of rehab?
MATT KUCHAR:   In the week to ten days, saw a list of people:   Chiropractors to massage therapists to physical therapists.   Kind of took some time, but also put in a lot of work and having people help, whether it was in adjustments or loosening up muscles. 
It seemed like the back just got out of alignment a little bit and the muscles locked up.   I had never had an issue where I have not been able to play a tournament.   That was a first for me. 

Q.   How does it feel now?
MATT KUCHAR:   It feels good.   It feels really good.   Funny mentally how you can switch where I was not able to play the PGA and got home and had a few more days like that and I thought, man, I might not be ready for Barclays, I might not be able to play; and then my back gets better and now it feels like I'm never going to get injured again.   Funny how your mind works when you're ill or injured.

Q.   How does this set you up for tomorrow in contention? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Exciting to be in contention on Sunday.   Golf gets really fun, really exciting when you have a chance on Sunday.   It looks like there will be a lot of guys with a chance tomorrow.   Certainly it will be fun to be out there playing as well as watching the leaderboard. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT