DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2014
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Is this the first time you've ever had six birdies in a row.  What was it like for you?  MATT KUCHAR: It was a good stretch.  A lot of those holes are potential birdie holes, 17 is short, 18 is a par 5, 1 is short, 2 is a par 5.  3 is the tough one.  3 is one that you won't see many birdies there.  And 4 is a drivable par-4.  Most guys are really going to take advantage of it.  I was able to tie it in with the birdie on 3.  But that was a nice stretch.   Q.  Learning the sad news about Angela passing, you talked about it being emotional for you yesterday.  Have you been inspired to play for the memory of Angela and for Lance and what Lance is going through right now?  MATT KUCHAR: Certainly you hope that's the case.  That was the objective in coming here.  You never know how things will work out in the game of golf.  But it felt like there's some fate working, as well. It's an interesting cycle in life that we live.  And to have such a close person pass.  Yesterday was hard and today less hard.  And you hope that that's the progression of things, that it gets easier.  The funeral is coming up and some things that will be difficult.  But right now I feel like there's some inspiration and some fate working.   Q.  Your thoughts on today?  MATT KUCHAR: It was a good day.  I played some good golf.  I scrambled pretty well.  I wasn't driving it quite as well as I normally do.  I found myself playing out of the rough, not able to be as in control as I'd like to be.  But the times that I've missed, the times that I was just off, made some really good up-and-downs and keep the good round going.   Q.  Playing with Jim Furyk, do you find you're kind of feeding off of each other?  MATT KUCHAR: Jim and I have been in that same window of FedExCup points.  We've played a lot together lately.  He's just playing some fantastic golf.  It's fun to play with him.  We play a similar type game.  It's enjoyable playing with Jim, whether it's admiration of his game or just personalities, I get along well and have a good time with him.   Q.  A bunch of us are wearing the burnt orange ribbon.  You've been Boston Strong --  MATT KUCHAR: I figured it was equally as important, Boston lost a lot of people.  Staying strong I thought was a good theme.   Q.  Six in a row.  It's exciting?  MATT KUCHAR: It was fun to do.  Did some good scrambling.  But the holes that I birdied were all holes that you think there's a possibility there.  17, a short hole.  18 is a par 5.  1 is a short hole.  2 is a par 5.  3 was a birdie you're not expecting.  And 4 is a drivable hole. So there are some good birdie opportunities.  I lucked out.  It was a fantastic stretch, for sure.  I made some good up-and-downs there.  18 I hit over the green and made a fantastic chip to a couple of feet.  The 4th hole I drove it in the bunker and had a difficult bunker shot and pulled it off perfectly to about four or five feet. But I had six in a row and I heard it was my best streak on Tour.  I've done it at home a couple of times.  Fun to do it out here.   Q.  What was the club on 3?  MATT KUCHAR: Club on 3 was a hybrid.  That's a lot of hole.  It was, I think, 220 into the wind, or 216 into the wind.  It was a lot of hole.   Q.  Was today any easier for you than yesterday?  MATT KUCHAR: Today was easier.  I think that's the natural progression of how these things work.  Day-by-day I think it gets a little bit easier.  It's a tough finish coming up, the funeral is going to be Tuesday.  That's going to be an awfully tough day. Today was easier, still felt like Angela was on my mind almost every hole, every shot.  But yesterday I had a hard time following through a couple of times.   Q.  Have you talked to Lance?  MATT KUCHAR: I talked to him a couple of times.  Not much I can say, not much he can say.  We had a few more normal conversations.  But I know he's mentioned several times how much the amount of support, all the texts, all the emails he's received, those have been a big help.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, we've done the ribbons at a number of events.  This is as close as I've ever been to anybody -- that a ribbon is worn for.  So it's more touching, more special.  I think you understand the gravity of what the ribbon is actually doing.  I think a lot of times we put them on in remembrance.  But it's home a little bit more.  Trying to set up a fund for Lance and Emily.  We do a lot of charity events, this one doesn't actually fall in the category of charity, but wanting to help a friend in need.  And help a child that's now without a mother. So all causes I think are special.  This one certainly means a lot to me.  Lance is family to the whole PGA Tour.  You can tell it means a lot to everybody out here that's been around.   Q.  Was she a Texas fan?  MATT KUCHAR: She was a Texas fan, for sure, that's the reason for the orange.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT