TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2019
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously the birdie on 18 is a great way to finish a tough day.  
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, funny. I felt good about my hitting. I found myself just a foot in the rough and, boy, this rough is nasty out here. It is hard to play out of, hard to score from. I just seemed to be just off one side or the other. It was frustrating, but it was really nice to cap it off with a birdie on the last. A couple good shots into 18 was a good way to end the week.   
 Q.  You had some thoughts about the new format coming into this week. Now that the tournament is said and done, what are your thoughts about how it all played out?  
MATT KUCHAR: Seems great. I think everybody understands it pretty well. Looks like it's going to be a good battle with some great names at the top of the leaderboard. Seems like a successful event.   
 Q.  Is it always more meaningful to be in the top 30, especially when it's in a town you know so well?  
MATT KUCHAR: Oh, it's always really, really exciting, really fun for me to be back at East Lake, back in Atlanta. There's such great support here. It was a wonderful week. I wish my golf was a little better, but the support and just the overall feel is fantastic.   
 Q.  Can I ask you a college football question? What do you think about Geoff Collins' first year?  
MATT KUCHAR: Everybody I talk to is very excited about Geoff Collins. Everybody says great things, says he's a fantastic coach, fantastic recruiter, just a great guy. And I think everybody is looking forward to seeing something different. I was a Paul Johnson fan, but I'm excited to see what Geoff Collins can do for the program.   
 Q.  It was a good year for you; you broke a long winless streak, got in that winner's circle more than once. Summarize it for us.  
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, it was a good year, certainly one of my best in a long time if not my best year. I don't know how else to summarize it. It was just a good year. Certainly getting back in the winner's circle is a lot of fun. It's such a great feeling to win. It's hard to do out here. It had been a while since my last win before my first one last fall, and boy, it was a great feeling. To be able to chalk up two in a year was really nice.   
 Q.  A new kind of portion of the schedule in the fall with nine tournaments now, probably going to force a lot of players to play a little bit more. What's your schedule looking like?  
MATT KUCHAR: I'm not sure. I'll play a couple here and there. Definitely got to go defend down at Mayakoba. I'll play hometown event at Sea Island, and trying to figure out what else I'll throw in in the fall.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT