RBC HERITAGE
April 19, 2014
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round today.   
MATT KUCHAR:   Well, played some nice golf.   I think I just had two birdies on the front and was pretty much bogey‑free until the last.   The last is so hard.   5 is not that bad of a score.   I played three pretty good shots in there to about five feet and just barely missed the putt.  
   
 Q.   How would you explain the fourth consecutive Sunday where you'll be entering with a chance to win the tournament?   Just a perspective over the last four weeks?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Some good steady playing, just what I've tried to build my game for.   I'm excited to have another opportunity.   It's been three chances now.   I'm looking like I'm a bit behind going into tomorrow, but still with a chance, which is a fun position to be in.  
   
 Q.   Fourth consecutive week on the PGA TOUR for Matt, and Matt said the first round you were concerned about fatigue.   Today you played 29‑plus holes in the wind and the rain.   How is your mind and body right now?  
MATT KUCHAR:   It's good.   It's good.   It helps to be in contention.   It helps to really have an incentive to go out and play some good golf.   
I love this golf course.   I love coming every year.   To be playing in continuation some good golf and be in contention is fun.   I'm excited to have my fourth shot at trying to take a title.  
   
 Q.   How comfortable are you heading into tomorrow and the fact that you've been in contention recently a lot?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, it's just the place you want to be.   You play good so you have a chance come Sunday.   And I put myself there the last three weeks.   It's been a lot of fun.   It made golf exciting this week and I did a pretty good job.   I didn't play a practice round.   I didn't play in the Pro Am, just trying to make sure I was as fresh as possible for this week.   
I know today was a long day, but looking forward to coming out tomorrow with a late tee time and seeing if I can make some birdies.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT