SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 4, 2014
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Matt Kuchar, for the second straight day, a really solid round of golf here.   Just a bogey on the last.   For you, what has been so good for you, and what were the more difficult conditions here on day two?
MATT KUCHAR:   I was really pleased last week.   Felt I was hitting it good.   In windy conditions you better be hitting it solid.   If you're not hitting it solid, the wind will take over.   I feel like I've been in pretty good control of what I'm doing and managing well as well.

Q.   You're going to play in the final group with Sergio Garcia, which hopefully you played in the 1998 quarter Open finals as well.   No bearing, obviously, what you're going to do, but what's your thought about that pairing?
MATT KUCHAR:   Sergio is a good friend.   I like him a lot.   He's very talented.   He's fun to be around and should be a fun day.   I always look forward to playing with Sergio.

Q.   What's the biggest thing you look for this weekend trying to win the Shell Houston Open?
MATT KUCHAR:   Looks like we're going to have some weather the next couple days.   I don't know what the wind will be like.   If it's anything like today, really got to be in control of what you're doing as far as hitting the ball solid.   Putting also changes a good bit with windy conditions.   If we get some rain, things could really become a lot different and the scores could go much lower.

Q.   What kind of got you jump-started to make that run up the leaderboard?
MATT KUCHAR:   Playing good steady golf.   It was breezy all day today.   When it's windy like this, you really got to be hitting the ball solid.   I knew from last week I was playing some good golf, I was in pretty good control of what I was doing, hitting a lot of solid shots, which if you're not hitting it solid, this wind will really eat your shots up.
So, playing good and steady.   I'm able to take advantage of a couple of the shorter holes, couple of the par-5s, and feeling pretty good about how I'm playing.

Q.   This sounds crazy, but I saw you leave a couple out there with the great round that you did have.
MATT KUCHAR:   I think every round you're going to leave a couple out there.   There's not a round you're going to make every putt.   All in all, very pleased with being 11-under for two days.

Q.   What kind of mindset or approach do you take into the weekend?
MATT KUCHAR:   You just try to step on the first tee and hit a good drive and go from there.   Not much you can control.   Again, I've been playing some good golf and look forward to continuing that trend.

Q.   Playing with Sergio in the final group.
MATT KUCHAR:   I like Sergio.   He's fun to watch swing a golf club.   He's been putting it really well for a couple years now.   He's switched over to the claw grip and really rolls it nicely.   He's a great player, and I expect him to go out and shoot another couple good rounds.

Q.   You got any idea what we're looking at this weekend?
MATT KUCHAR:   No, not really.   I understand we're teeing off early, trying to avoid some weather.   I just saw the forecast.   Looks like we're pretty much going to get rained on on Sunday.   As far as how severe, I don't know.

Q.   Just in terms of scoring, do you expect guys to continue to score?
MATT KUCHAR:   It certainly depends on what sort of weather we see.   If we get some rain and it doesn't blow too hard, of course the course will soften up and the scores will go even lower.   No telling.   We could get storms and blowy conditions.   It could be really tough.

Q.   Just talk about today's play and some tougher conditions and how you feel like you did.
MATT KUCHAR:   Interesting how different the course played over the two days.   It completely changed almost a 180 with wind.   Holes were very, very different today.   Still able to post a good number.   Feel like I hit the ball solid, and windy conditions you got to be hitting solid or the wind takes over.   I feel like I've been playing good.   Showed it last week and nice to have it and keep going this week.

Q.   Thoughts on playing with Sergio.   You guys go back to the '98 U.S. Am?
MATT KUCHAR:   We've been friends for a while.   Sergio is a great guy.   We see him on and off the course.   Really like him a lot.   I look forward to playing with him.   I know he's talented and been playing some really good golf.   Swings it well, and now for a couple years since he switched over to the claw putting, he putts it nicely.

Q.   Playing well throughout these two Texas events.   How do you feel about your game right now?
MATT KUCHAR:   My game is in really good shape.   I'm pleased with the way things have progressed.   I feel like it continues to get better and better.   It's a tough thing to do out here is to continue to improve.   Nice to see improvements go on.

Q.   Two more rounds here, but a big one next week.   How do you kind of keep the focus on this week?
MATT KUCHAR:   It's pretty easy to keep the focus on this week.   This is a great event, and the fact that I'm certainly hoping to perform well over the weekend, hopefully put my name on the list of past champions.   It's a great event.   Everybody really hopes to round into form for next week.   No better way to run into form than be on some good form this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT