TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2019
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Matt, can you talk about starting the day with the way the leaderboard was. The sets that came in, and then you kind of got into a rhythm once everybody was on and you could see what everyone's score was doing at that time. Do you agree with that?  
MATT KUCHAR: I think people understood even before you started the day. You kind of look at it more like a five-round tournament. The guys came in wherever they were, that was round 1 of 5. Even guys ten shots back. I was in a position six shots back, and you put me six shots back going into Sunday's final round, I feel like I've got a chance. You put me six back with 72 holes to go, I've definitely got a chance.   
So the guys even ten back with 72 holes to go have got to feel like they're still in it.   
 Q.  How would you assess your play out there today?  
MATT KUCHAR: It was great. Particularly, I started off with birdies on 1 and 2 and felt very comfortable. Last two weeks weren't my best. Chris O'Connell came to town, got some work with him Tuesday, Wednesday, and started to feel better about things and was much more comfortable on the golf course today.   
 Q.  How does this rough compare to years past here?  
MATT KUCHAR: Bermuda rough is tricky. I grew up with it. Nobody ever really knows how to play out of it. It is hard to figure out. This year seems like it is a serious penalty to be in, whether off the tee or on the green. The ball nestles down to the bottom, and I'm not really sure exactly if the ball's going to jump, if it's going to come out dead. It is hard to predict.   
 Q.  I remember asking you a few years ago, you were playing well during the Dallas swing and Colonial because you were working with Chris. Do you find yourself playing better after you've spent some time with him?  
MATT KUCHAR: You know, I had this sequence the last few years of a couple weeks with him in Dallas, and then roll from there into the Memorial Tournament. Memorial has been my best track record of any event, and I think in large part due to the two weeks with Chris. So it seems like spending a little extra time, we always seem to get on a pretty good groove.   
This year I had two weeks with him around match play in San Antonio. Then it rolled into Augusta and Hilton Head, and after two weeks with him and having had a good run, kind of through that stretch. So it seems like the more time we get with him, the better we seem to do.   
 Q.  Have you seen Brooks' photos, the Body Issue?  
MATT KUCHAR: No.   
 Q.  If you want to see nude Brooks Koepka photos, they're out there.  
MATT KUCHAR: Oh, thank you. Like he and Tiger share similarities there?   
 Q.  No, they're artfully done.  
MATT KUCHAR: Oh, no. Not that kind of --   
 Q.  Referring to ESPN, the magazine.  
MATT KUCHAR: I thought you were really telling me -- I wanted to see that. All right. Maybe next time.   
 Q.  Last year was one of your best years of your career. Do you have any explanation for what happened last year and what you did to turn it around this year?  
MATT KUCHAR: I missed that.   
 Q.  You had probably your poorest year in a long time last year. You follow that up with one of the best years of your career. What explanation do you have for what happened last year and why you're playing so much better this year?  
MATT KUCHAR: I don't. I feel like the best answer I've given out for that is just persistence. I feel like I've stayed the course. I feel like I continue to work on things and really just stay persistent and stay the course and feel like I've -- I just started working in the right direction and kept at it.   
 Q.  How rewarding is it to have this good a year after a year like you had last year?  
MATT KUCHAR: The game of golf, you're always just looking to improve just a little bit. Last year was frustrating, where I feel like this is closer to the game I want to play, the game I think I'm capable of playing. So this feels a little more normal. Last year I tried to chalk up as a little bit of an abnormality, and this is back on track again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT