WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 7, 2014
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   69 in the first round, are you pleased? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Absolutely, 3‑under on this course, when we played practice rounds, knew this place was hard.   And got some wind, too.   The restart we had some easier holes,8 and 9 were easier but 7 was a bear having to restart with the winds.   Playing some good golf, steady golf and awfully pleased with 3‑under.

Q.   Were the conditions tougher today or yesterday?
MATT KUCHAR:   I think the wind is a lot harder right now.   I think today, this afternoon, we'll be tested out there.

Q.   So you didn't play that many holes this morning, how long do you have on your break? 
MATT KUCHAR:   I had three holes and got 2 1/2 hour break. 

Q.   Can you go through your regular routine? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, 2 1/2 hours, I'll go grab some breakfast and relax and then have a normal one‑hour warm up. 

Q.   Playing this morning, considering the wind, the rain yesterday, the difficulty of this golf course, do you get a feel of how this course is going to play this afternoon?
MATT KUCHAR:   You definitely have some holes that are a lot harder and holes that are easier.   We played 8 downwind and it was a mid to short iron in.   9 was a mid‑iron.   A couple holes played easier.   I think 18, talking to Gary Woodland, said he hit a sand wedge into 18 I had to lay up yesterday when I played 18.   So completely different golf hole. 

Q.   Wind shifting, southerly yesterday and westerly today; you're a very cerebral player, and when the wind is blowing as heavily as it is right now, what is the No. 1 mental aspect that you have to have? 
MATT KUCHAR:   It's going to be challenging and putting I think will be challenging.   The greens will be nice and fast but when you're playing in this kind of wind, it will have an effect and it's something that you definitely have to concern yourself with.   I'm not a high‑spin player, so I feel like it's just all about control. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT