VALERO TEXAS OPEN
March 30, 2014
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the back nine.   Obviously went into it tied for the lead and then a couple 3‑putts?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, a bit disappointing.   This is a good day for me.   These conditions were great.   The way I was hitting it all week I was thinking this was just perfect for me today.   I came out and got off to a good start, good steady golf.   
Then I got on the clock on nine.   I think that didn't help me much.   I felt enough rushed that I felt like it led to a couple mistakes.   
The 3‑putt on 10, just rushing a little bit.   
The wedge shot on 11, again rushing it.   The wind's kind of up‑and‑down and feeling like I just got to pull the trigger.   
Tough conditions out there, being on the clock, it was just stressful.   It's not something I'm used to, being on the clock, so it felt a little more rushed, a little more stressed than I think normal.  
   
 Q.   Did that ever happen to you before?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I've been on the clock before, it's always a stressful thing, it's not something I enjoy, you just never quite know how long you take, you never know exactly when the rules official starts the clock.   So it's, even if you're a really fast player, it's not a pleasant thing to be on, particularly with windy, difficult conditions like today.   You just need to kind of think things through more than normal on days like this.  
   
 Q.   I know you're disappointed not to win, but seeing Steven get his breakthrough win and in light of the troubles that he had early on with depression and the suicide attempt, just talk about how that's a feel good story for him and for the TOUR?  
MATT KUCHAR:   That's news to me.   Any time you get a first‑time winner, it's a great story.   For a guy to battle through it, conditions were tough and nobody really made a charge, but still there were a lot of chances to leak more oil and he kind of maintained and held strong enough to get a win.   
   
 Q.   You're not aware of the depression battle that he had?  
MATT KUCHAR:   No.  
   
 Q.   The suicide attempt?  
MATT KUCHAR:   No, that's news to me.  
   
 Q.   What does it say about how difficult it is to win.   You're tied with a guy with nine holes to go whose seeking his first win, obviously a lot more experience on your end, how hard is it‑‑ you would be favored, I would say, people watching at home‑‑ how hard is it to win on TOUR?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Everybody that tees it up here is a great player.   It's not as if there's Roger Federer going up against somebody you haven't heard of.   It's a lot different in golf.   
The guys that play really good quality golf from top to bottom are the kind of guys that enter the tournament.   So it's tough.   You know that you got to play great to win out here.   It takes four really good day toss win a golf tournament.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel overall about the week?  
MATT KUCHAR:   I'm pleased.   I'm pleased overall.   I'm hitting it well, short game's good, I feel like I'm in really good control of what I'm doing and pleased.   I think it's one of those things that I wouldn't be surprised if I do some really good things next week or the week after.  
   
 Q.   Not quite in the fairway today as much as you were, I think you were leading the tournament?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I was really driving it well.   I was surprised today, a handful of drives just didn't turn out good.   Like 18 was my best drive of the day and it's a foot in the rough.   It felt like I wasn't quite as sharp off the tee as I was the first three rounds, and that certainly hurt.   Driving it as good as I was the first three rounds, it was pretty easy to take advantage.   From in the rough, it felt like it's just trying to make par.   
   
 Q.   Are you going play in Houston?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT