SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 8, 2014
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just a few thoughts about coming back to Waialae for this event. 
MATT KUCHAR:   I love it here.   This is one of my favorite courses we play all year.   This suits my game really well.   It's an interesting change from last week where you've got huge fairways.   This week, these are some of the most narrow fairways we play all year.   I feel like one of my strengths is my ability to drive the ball well.   This week is a lot more control, and there's not a whole lot of adjustments I have to make.

Q.   And talk about your love affair with the Hawaiian Islands; how did it start and how did it come to be?   You're going to spend a we here after this, right, stay a month? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, luckily in the game of golf we come to Hawai'i often.   It's an easy place to fall in love with.   I think everybody that comes out here feels the allure here.   It's part of the United States, it's got amazing weather, it's got topography that is unlike anywhere else.   I think most places you either get beach or you get mountains.   Here you get both, and you get to do so many fun activities.   My family loves doing as many activities as possible and we really get out and do a lot.   The kids yesterday did two hikes.   They hiked Diamond Head, and then I went out with them in the afternoon and we did Cocoa Head.   I'm amazed that the kids could handle both of those, but they're fun activities where the whole family really has a good time. 

Q.   And the last thing, just keys to playing good at Waialae, what do you have to do?   It's a par‑70 course. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Well, I think first and foremost is drive the ball well.   You put yourself in position, the par‑5s are reachable, but again, if you're not driving it well, you're kind of chipping out of the trees or playing from rough and then you can't take advantage.   I think the No.1 key here is driving the ball well. 

Q.   Your expectations for 2014, you had a big year last year?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, hoping to continue.   I've been on a good kind of trend line.   Things have been going really well, and I'm excited for 2014.   It's kind of a learning curve for us all with the new wrap‑around season.   Still trying to figure out what tournaments to add.   For the most part I'm real excited about the progression my game has made and certainly look forward to continuing that good trend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT