BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2013
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   61 today, and you flirted with some history on the 18th.   We knew the day was going to be good from a scoring condition standpoint.   You proved it. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, today was a completely different day than the first two days.   My scores kind of showed the challenge that this course presented under the conditions.   I was just shocked seeing the scores that were posted the first two rounds.   I thought this course was challenging even without the conditions, but with 15‑, 20‑mile‑an‑hour winds all day, I thought the place was really tough.   To see what Snedeker did day one, Furyk, incredible what he did yesterday.   I thought about it for a minute today.   The day today is completely different than what it was yesterday.   Even a 59 today is not near what a 59 yesterday was.   But still, it crossed my head. 
I got off to a good start and then had a thought on the last hole, gosh, if I hole this out from the fairway, it's a 59.   I think I got it at least to scare the hole a little bit.

Q.   It was two and a half, three inches away.   You flirted with it a little bit.   In this event you can play poorly for two days but you can still show up on Saturday and play some golf, so how do you approach this morning when you show up to the golf course?   You obviously had the right mindset. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Not much to lose on a day like this.   Just trying to get better with each day, really.   Next week is so important.   It's nice to be locked up as far as making the TOUR Championship.   For me without a real chance to win this tournament, trying to get in good form, hoping to carry some good form into next week.

Q.   Well, next week if you're in the top 5 going in you know you control your own destiny.   You might be able to play your way back into that.   Is that something you think about at all now going into tomorrow given what you've done?
MATT KUCHAR:   I've never quite figured out how thinking about any of that helps you play better golf.   I don't quite understand, people get real concerned about things like that.   I think you play the best you can and let the numbers figure themselves out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT