DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2013
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Matt, your second round, 5‑under par, 66, how are you feeling?
MATT KUCHAR:   It's been a good couple of days of scoring.   My short game really kept me in.   My wedges have been great.   My putting has been good. 

Q.   There's birdies all over the place out here this week.   Talk about your birdie at No. 2 today?
MATT KUCHAR:   I had a great drive.   I was licking my lips on my approach shot to knock it on in 2, and had kind of a routine two‑putt birdie.   Came up in the water, took a drop and over one edge, and my wedge is really dialed in for a couple of weeks now.   I've been telling my caddie.   It's always exciting to see an iron shot go in the hole. 

Q.   Another solid day out there for you again.   Talk a little bit about your round. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yes, scoring conditions are really good.   I think we'll see a lot of low numbers again today.   But for me it's been two days of 5‑under par.   And really a good session of managing my game.   I'm not quite as sharp as I'd like to be tee‑to‑green.   So I've managed when I can take advantage.   And I've certainly taken advantage of the holes where I have a short iron in my hand. 
It's been nice to see some balls go in the hole.   I've been putting well and chipping well.

Q.   Rory won it last year in four or five under rounds, is that what you're shooting for?
MATT KUCHAR:   I'm trying to go as low as I can every day.   I've been pretty pleased with the results in two days of 5‑under.   And looking forward to the final two days here.

Q.   What's the course playing like?
MATT KUCHAR:   The course is pretty soft and playable.   It's in fantastic shape.   The par‑5s are for the most part all reachable.   So we've got some good scoring opportunities there.   And then a couple of wedge holes.   And you're looking at the top 100 players in the world out here.   Guys are going to shoot some good scores.

Q.   Do you feel momentum building here into the playoffs?
MATT KUCHAR:   I hope so.   My game is in pretty good form.   I felt like I was playing good golf at the PGA and then again last week.   So I'm looking forward to continuing to have chances late on Sunday.

Q.   What is it about this time of year, the playoffs, you're always kind of dialed in. 
MATT KUCHAR:   I'd like to think I'm dialed in every week.   It doesn't always work that way.   But it's been a great year for me so far this year.   This is an exciting time of year.   I kind of realized how the FedExCup playoffs work.   A lot of weight put in these five events, and even more weight put in The TOUR Championship.   You want to put yourself in good position.   And then really hope to have a great TOUR Championship.

Q.   You've got The Presidents Cup coming up. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I'm excited to go back to Muirfield Village.   That will be a real treat.   Playing for the United States of America is a real treat.   Getting to play with Jack Nicklaus around is always a thrill.   And on one of his own courses, it's going to be fun.   I'm anxious to see how this event goes.

Q.   With all this going on now, how do you get prepared for something like that?
MATT KUCHAR:   We get prepared every week for something new.   The guys are pretty good about changing and playing different courses, different types of golf. 
Right now I think everybody is really focused on the FedExCup playoffs.   It's right here in front of us.   We've got a lot of excitement going on.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT