THE BARCLAYS
August 24, 2013
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A little up‑and‑down this morning, but happy with the way you came in? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, the course was hard.   I was kind of hoping for nice, still conditions this morning, and some really good scoring conditions.   And 15, 20‑mile‑an‑hour winds, it was a little more challenging.   I was glad to get a couple birdies in there. 
But the holes I made bogey, 15 and 18, are difficult holes.   I don't mind making bogeys on those. 

Q.   And considering your position right now, is it a good thing to sort of get a look at the course early in the morning and know what you're facing in the afternoon?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, somebody told me that wind could die down late in the afternoon, I think, so having the later time could be beneficial.   I hope that holds true.   But having seen it, I definitely know what to expect and guys out here get out to the range and have a pretty good indication of what to expect.

Q.   Given what is already out there on the course, can someone get to 11‑under, do you think, or do you think‑‑
MATT KUCHAR:   I haven't really seen the scores, and, I don't know, it's still a lot of golf left for 11‑under right now. 

Q.   Great way to start the round, Matt.   Was that a chip or a putt? 
MATT KUCHAR:   It was a putt.   I putted in from 20 feet on the 14th.   It was kind of an unexpected‑‑ a putt that last night, I was thinking it would be good just to 2‑putt, had some good break right‑to‑left.   Nice to see that one go in. 

Q.   What state are you living in this week? 
MATT KUCHAR:   In the city.   We're staying in the city.

Q.   What have you been doing for transport? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Both driving and taking the ferry. 

Q.   What's the logic on transportation?
MATT KUCHAR:   I figure the ferry, less stress, because you can just sit there and ride.   It takes, from our hotel, it's a 15‑minute walk to the ferry and then a half hour ferry ride to here, so it's kind of 45 minutes.   This morning with the car, I made it in 17 minutes.   So pretty simple, pretty simple this morning.   It was one of those things last night, I didn't want to have to wait and figure out what time the ferry was leaving and figured I would drive home and get straight to the door and same this morning. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT