THE BARCLAYS
August 23, 2013
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, you're not done yet, but you're at 10 and you have to feel pretty good about that going into a good night's sleep.   
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I do.   I knew I was playing good golf and conditions seemed like they were going to be a little bit more challenging today.   The wind was up when we got here to the course, and was able to still come out and play some nice golf.   I'm really pleased with how I'm playing, and hoping some of these delays work like they did yesterday and continue to keep the good form going.   
   
 Q.   Would you rather start the day with a putt‑‑  
MATT KUCHAR:   Right now the greens are getting a little bit worn.   There's just been a lot of traffic on them.   I feel like in the morning, they will be perfect greens.   
A situation where I'm on 18 and can pretty much have a proper night's sleep and not have to worry about going out, I'll finish on 18.   But in this situation‑‑ it was amazing, we were down on the last hole, 13, kind of a little bit down the hole and it was dark.   I wasn't sure we were going to tee off on 14.   
Coming out over the water, it brightened up by a good margin.   It's actually a beautiful skyline.   I think when the sun sets coming off, it was a nice little place to be this time of night.  
   
 Q.   A lot of low scores today, and you're the lowest, at least in the first couple of rounds?  
MATT KUCHAR:   I've been playing some good golf.   Had a nice round yesterday and was glad to come out and continue the good form.   Yesterday we had a bunch of stop and goes and I'm hoping the stop and go won't last and the good form will continue.   
   
 Q.   Coming back early tomorrow, and it's going to be a long day‑‑  
MATT KUCHAR:   Something we get used to and something we deal with.   It's not every week, but it's several times a year.   So you get pretty used to it, and you deal with it as best you can.  
   
 Q.   As well as you were playing, did you want to keep going?   
MATT KUCHAR:   It was dark.   It was dark.   It was a good thing to be able to stop now and come out tomorrow morning and conditions will hopefully be really good in the morning.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT