PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2013
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MATT KUCHAR:   A great round.   It was a bummer to finish with a bogey.   I knew I was bogey‑free through 35 holes and really hoping to make that par putt on the last hole and hopefully be in the last group with Jason Dufner.   
It was really kind of cool.   We had three of us on 18 tee kind of talking about the ramifications of what Jason Dufner in the group in front of us could do with a birdie on the last and set the all‑time scoring record.   We're sitting on 18 tee and watched Jason hit his approach shot from the fairway, knew he hit it close by the crowd's reaction.   As we walked down to the fairway, we get a chance to watch his putt, all kind of hoping.   And I know for me, it would have put him an extra shot ahead, but it would have been pretty cool to see a 62 posted as the lowest round ever in a major championship.   It was kind of too bad that he missed it.   
A fun experience for us, and then I was just hoping to salvage par.   Hit a bad drive in the right bunker and had to just layout.   Other than that, it was some pretty steady golf for me, five birdies today and a good round of golf.  
   
 Q.   You guys were aware of what he was doing?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, yeah, Jason was the group right in front of us.   You could see the number, how many under he was on the day, and then put it together with a par 70, he was right there.   One more birdie on the final two holes would have done it.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, yeah, it was definitely one of the times you got a better side of the draw.   This was one of the times where I'll check off that I got the good side of the draw for this week for sure.   
I think yesterday morning we had great conditions.   In the afternoon, I know they had some storms come in and they had to break.   That's never fun.   
Then playing in the rain today, it seemed like conditions were soft and guys were still shooting some decent numbers, but we had soft conditions with sunshine and it was perfect out there for us.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised at all that guys were going that low?   
MATT KUCHAR:   I wouldn't really paying that much attention.   I was kind of for a while wondering when Dufner was going to slow down.   He was the group in front of us.   I knew he was kind of right there at the lead group.   Kept watching him, seemed to make birdie after birdie.   
Other than that, I would wasn't too aware of what other guys were doing.   He was the one guy.   You kind of expect somebody is going to play well regardless of the conditions.   So he seemed to really have it going today.  
   
 Q.   Does he ever get hyper at all?   He always seems kind of flat‑lined.   
MATT KUCHAR:   Not that I know of.   I think he would make for a pretty good poker player.   He certainly makes for a good golfer, as well.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
MATT KUCHAR:   In the practice rounds, the course was in fantastic shape.   It seemed like guys would have a chance.   A guy playing really well here, hitting a lot of fairways, you can find yourself hitting a lot of middle and short irons into holes.   
If you are hot and taking advantage of those holes, you have got a chance to really post a good number.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
MATT KUCHAR:   I'm playing some great golf.   It's been a fantastic season.   I was really excited with what I was doing the last couple of weeks.   I was pleased with my performance in Canada with a second place.   
Then at Bridgestone, I finished just better than middle of the pack but really felt good about how I was hitting it and was excited coming into this championship.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT