ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2013
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Welcome to the Alstom Open de France, your first time here.   Give us your impressions so far, I believe you've only been here since Saturday? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, first time here, flew over Friday, got in Saturday.   This is an event I talked about with my agent for a couple years in trying to make the time work to be able to make it here.   One of those things I saw on the horizon as a place I wanted to go.   I've never been to France before, and I don't know anybody that doesn't fantasize, romanticise about going to Paris. 
So the opportunity to come, to experience Paris, to experience France, I really wanted to do.   I talked to some players about the golf tournament here, and they said one of the best courses they play all year. 
So there were a lot of things that said I really ought to come.   This year it worked out, and the timing's been great.   To come over, play this event, and then tie it in with the British Open, as well, have a week off between here and the British Open.   We are going to go down to the south of France for a little vacation and then I'll make my way up to Scotland a few days before the British to start preparing. 
But this course has lived up to everything all the other players have raved about.   Played the front nine on Monday and the back nine yesterday, and gosh, I got in on Monday and was just so impressed with the quality of the golf course.   Was amazed to see how green it was, yet how firm it plays.   It plays links‑style, yet has thick rough, which you don't really see very often. 
Fairways are firm and fast.   The course is tight, and really a fun golf course.   I was very impressed by the front nine, and everybody had raved about the finishing four holes and how good they were, and sure enough, they lived up to it, as well.   They are a fantastic finishing four holes and really excited to get this tournament going and get it started. 

Q.   You talk about wanting to come to France; did you learn French in school?   What made you want to sort of‑‑ what captures your attention about France?
MATT KUCHAR:   I took a year in high school of French, and then a year in college of Spanish, neither of which has served me any good (laughter). 
But I don't know if it's movies or other people that come, but everybody's impression of Paris is it's the most romantic place in the world.   It's less romantic with the children (laughter) but we've brought along a helper, a nanny, as well, to help out, so we've had some fantastic meals.   We've had some ability to kind of walk along hand‑in‑hand by ourselves along the streets of Paris and kind of do the things that we'd like to do. 

Q.   This is a bit mischievous, but did you talk to Bubba about his experience here? 
MATT KUCHAR:   I did; I talked a little bit to him about his experience.   Again, he still had the same sentiments about it being a fantastic golf course.   I know his experience seemed to be off with some of the photographers or cameras.   I still think Bubba had a good time.   I think he just got a bad rap, but in the talking that I had with him, he was disappointed that he didn't play better, but still enjoyed his time in France. 

Q.   Looking ahead to Muirfield, there was a time 15, 20 years ago, when no player really wanted to come over and play links golf and there seems to be a change and a real desire to embrace the history and be part of that tournament.   Is that something that's grown on you as you've gone through your career?
MATT KUCHAR:   I've find of forgotten about that.   It's interesting that people, whatever, considered not coming to a British Open, and particularly the best in the game. 
I could see guys that are struggling to keep their card on the US PGA, wanting to stay back home and try to make sure they keep their card for the next year and then improve their performances and improve their game to be in a position to come over and have more of a chance at a British Open. 
You get four big opportunities every year in the major championships.   You've got Masters, U.S. Open, British Open, PGA, to really write your name in history.   It's hard to believe that guys would choose not to take an opportunity to write their name in history and come over for a British Open.   I don't know if that's the way that other people see it now; it's certainly the way I've seen it. 
I'd forgotten that about that, 15, 20 years ago, and I don't remember who, if it was just one or two guys, or if it was a lot of guys that chose not to come.   Seems like now, it's on everybody's calendar to make best effort to be fully prepared for each major championship, British Open included. 

Q.   Is there a sense of dread, as something that you always have to endure, or something that's different that you can really enjoy as a complete change from what you're playing regularly on the U.S. Tour?
MATT KUCHAR:   I think that depends on the weather (laughing).   I think good weather, you enjoy it; and bad weather, you survive it, endure it.

Q.   Can you couple up the magic of the British Open, or an Open, rather. 
MATT KUCHAR:   I don't know. 

Q.   A good day at a links, a British links, what do you think of? 
MATT KUCHAR:   I think myself, and most people included, is that you just have to be so much more creative.   It's rare that you hit a typical shot like you would on a driving range.   It's rare that you just hit a standard iron shot.   Most of them are three‑quarter shots, half‑shots, taking a lot of extra club and chipping it.   It just seems to be a lot more creativity involved in playing links golf in a British Open. 
MICHAEL GIBBONS:   Thank you very much.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT