THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 30, 2013
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You avoided a bogey at 17 with a great putt and at 18.   That didn't give up many birdies?
    MATT KUCHAR:   That's right.   17 was a good scramble.   17 was one of my loose holes.   I kept the ball in play and had a lot of decent opportunities. 
    Anytime you make a putt on 18, you feel like you did good there.   It's not one you plan to make, you're looking to get it close. 

Q.   Confidence level has to be, what, super high right now?
    MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I had a nice week last week.   I was close to winning Colonial.   The game is getting better and better. 
    I'll try to be here‑‑ this is a course I enjoy playing.   The last couple of weeks was a great stretch of golf.   I love coming here to Memorial.   It's one of my favorite golf courses.

Q.   Lastly, are we going for the full beard, are you letting it grow full?
    MATT KUCHAR:   No, I'm dying to shave it off.   My wife says she likes it.

Q.   And you're playing well, so you might as well keep it going?
    MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, might as well. 

Q.   Talk about your round today, some of the highlights?
    MATT KUCHAR:   Solid, steady round.   I think even par on the front side and I got it going on the back.   Birdie on 12 was great.   That's one of the holes you just try to make par and leave.   And then bogey is even okay on 12.   To sneak away with a birdie was great.
    Hit it close on 13. 
    I had a good chance on 14. 
    Made a nice birdie on 15, the par‑5, was on the green in two. 
    I snuck one in on 18.   Hit two good shots, 20 feet left of the hole, pin‑high putt.   And it's not one you're counting on making, you just want to get it close.   That was fun for me to have that drop.

Q.   You've made every cut this year.   What's been working for you here lately on Tour?
    MATT KUCHAR:   The game keeps improving.   I feel the last couple of years have been good, steady years of golf.   I try to continue to get better.   The last couple of weeks for me were great.   I had two tournaments in the greater Dallas/Fort Worth area, I feel like I've continued to tweak and get better and better.   I had a great chance to win at Colonial.   This week I feel like 68 is a pretty good start. 

Q.   You seem to do well here?
    MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, this course, if I look at my track record here, it's a strong one.   I really enjoy coming here.   It's a fun, demanding golf course, have to drive the ball well.   Several options off the tee, which I enjoy.   And it's played well for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT