MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2013
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Do you feel like you put yourself back in this thing?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I absolutely do.   It was a good day and I'm really excited to have a shot tomorrow.   Hopefully nobody goes crazy and I'm in contention tomorrow. 

Q.   Bill just said that 4‑under is probably the highest you could have shot so far.   Is he correct on that?   Have you played better than 4‑under?
MATT KUCHAR:   I played well.   I putted really well today.   So I feel all in all happy with the round of golf.   I certainly don't look back and think, gosh, I left a lot out there. 
I think that maybe yesterday I missed a couple opportunities and didn't drive it very well.   But I kind of cleaned things up today and feel like I'm in good shape.

Q.   You didn't miss any opportunities on the par‑5s today.   Is that going to be what it takes, and where else can you grab some strokes?
MATT KUCHAR:   Around this place you take what the course gives you.   Here the par‑5s are opportunities that you want to take advantage of and I feel great about having birdied all four.   I would say that it's a good feat, because even though they are all potential birdie holes, they're all potential bogey holes or holes that you can mess up on.   So taking advantage, 4‑4 today was great. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MATT KUCHAR:   Last year was my first real time being in contention going late into Sunday.   It's kind of what we all play golf for, having a chance at a Major Championship, having a chance at the Masters tournament, it's exciting.   I've not quite had the feelings anywhere else that I did when I made the eagle on 15 last year and got right in contention.

Q.   Did you learn anything from that?   Just about how to approach Sunday?
MATT KUCHAR:   That I've been there.   I think the more times you're in that situation, the more comfortable you get.   The more comfortable you get, I think the better you play.

Q.   Is it important to deal with that in some way like not make it bigger than it is?   The moment itself. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, they're golf shots.   We have all hit a thousand golf shots before.   They all seem to get a little bit bigger and a little bit more challenging when a tournament's on the line, but hopefully the experience from last year and the continued good play throughout the year has helped and will help tomorrow. 

Q.   How long were the putts on the par‑5s.   About three feet on 15?   Two or three feet?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, 15 was probably two feet. 
13, six feet.   Just missed the green left on the second shot. 
8 was four feet. 
2 was two feet. 

Q.   What did you hit on 3?   The birdie on 3. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Birdie on 3?   I drove it up to just 60 yards.   Lob wedge.

Q.   14.   You were talking about some holes that you just, is there just any way to get past those couple?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, good drives certainly help.   I was on the green, but I was a long way away on 11.   Kind of bummed that I gave one back there.   I hit a good putt there though. 
14, you hit a good drive, you know, it may not be a birdie pin location, but it certainly is one you can get through in four. 

Q.   Some more scrambling on the last few holes today.   Those were three pretty good pars?
MATT KUCHAR:   I hit a great drive on 17.   Just kind of was amazed that my pitching wedge went over the green there.   I thought that, here I was going to have a shot at birdie and I was probably lucky to walk away with a par there.   So I was looking to take advantage. 
I felt I hit a great drive on 18, was in the right rough and ended up making a nice par there. 

Q.   The 3 on 16 finally. 
MATT KUCHAR:   That's right.   That's right.   Finally.   I'm going to see if I can hit the green tomorrow.

Q.   Did you have a number in mind today?
MATT KUCHAR:   No, no, never.   No.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT