THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 31, 2013
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MATT KUCHAR:   It was steady all day, but it picked up five to ten miles an hour less than a half hour ago.  
   
 Q.   What does this kind of wind do to the course, how much tougher does it make it?  
    MATT KUCHAR:   This course is hard without wind.   It's difficult and challenging on a normal day.   With 20 plus mile an hour winds, it becomes really difficult.   Putting is challenging.   I think these greens are similar to Augusta National.   You throw on 20 plus mile an hour winds, you've got to play the wind on your putts, it becomes really difficult.  
   
 Q.   How crucial is it to play the par‑5s very well?  
    MATT KUCHAR:   There are only a handful of holes you feel are good scoring opportunities out there.   You get a couple of opportunities on the par‑5s.   A couple of the par‑4s you can have short irons in.   You want to take advantage because this course can get you.   You want to try to get as many birdies as possible.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
    MATT KUCHAR:   If you've got steady winds you're fine, but when it comes up and down you have to make changes.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
    MATT KUCHAR:   I haven't seen the forecast.   Regardless of the forecast, it will be exciting.   I think there's always great players that win around here.   It's going to be a challenge.   We've got some big guys at the top of the leaderboard.   It should be exciting.   This place is fun coming into Sunday.   
   
 Q.   How tough is that hole‑‑ 16, how tough is that hole?   It's the hardest par‑3 in the Tour last year?  
    MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, it's not fun.   You get up to the tee box and you're hoping for 3 or even 4 is acceptable on that hole.   I think 12 is one of those really demanding, really tough ones.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
    MATT KUCHAR:   I hit a good shot, I shouldn't have taken that aggressive of a line.   It was nice golf today.  
   
 Q.   How did it compare to yesterday, because the wind is pretty good out here?  
    MATT KUCHAR:   The last two or three holes were pretty challenging.   But if it keeps up, this afternoon is going to be really difficult.  
   
 Q.   Are you feeling good about the weekend now?  
    MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I'm pleased.   My game has been good for a while.   I had two good rounds here, looking forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Out of breath walking up the hill to do the interview?  
    MATT KUCHAR:   Yes, I was looking forward to having lunch at the Halfway House.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT