MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   When was the last time you made a par like that?  
MATT KUCHAR:   I've made some good ones on 18.   I don't know if I've ever hit one so short there.   I didn't make the fairway.   But where that pin was it was possible to make a 4, and I'm glad to escape with a 4.  
   
 Q.   What happened on the tee shot?  
MATT KUCHAR:   It was a left‑to‑right wind, kind of tried to hold it up against the wind, and got too close to the trees.  
   
 Q.   The good news is anybody kind of even par is still in this thing the way the conditions are.   You're not out of it by any means.   When did the wind really start getting tough?   
MATT KUCHAR:   I don't remember.   I mean, it was early enough, there was enough wind to be tricky.   I want to say on the back nine it picked up and started getting to be fun out there.  
   
 Q.   We heard Trevor Immelman say you had to be a man to play out there today.   You've played a lot of rounds here now.   Was it one of the tougher days?  
MATT KUCHAR:   It was very tough.   Fortunately the greens are still a bit receptive, and that helps out a lot.   I think I saw Jason Dufner had a putt on 12, he had a 10‑footer downhill, and he nudged it, and it was stopping at the hole, but the wind picked up and all of a sudden the thing was six feet by.   I mean, the thing was coming to a stop right next to the hole, and you could just watch the wind pick it up and go.   So there were a couple scary instances out there.   
But the greens being a little bit soft, a little bit slower than what they could be, it's helpful.   
   
 Q.   What happened on 16?   
MATT KUCHAR:   I hit it in the right bunker.   
   
 Q.   Same one as‑‑ no, yesterday you were in the back bunker?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Same bunker, just in a different position.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to see if you can sneak around 16 from here on out?   That hole has been‑‑  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, it's not an easy hole for me.   It should be here with‑‑ hit the middle of the green and kind of take what it gives you, but I hit a really good shot and made bogey today, and I hit a bad shot and made bogey.  
   
 Q.   Did you hear about the slow play penalty on 17?   He could miss the cut as a result of it.   
MATT KUCHAR:   Oh, wow.   Have there been many other slow play penalties?   
   
 Q.   '95 was the last one.   Apparently he was warned at 16, and then 17 he‑‑ he made a great two‑putt there.   
MATT KUCHAR:   Was it today that I want to say we get to the 4th tee and we almost had a three‑group backup on the tee, so I didn't think we were ever going to sniff getting warned with backups like that.   But maybe after that it picked up a little bit.   What time did he go off this morning?   He was off early?   
But I think as the rounds get later and the conditions get tougher, the paces will slow down, and I don't imagine anybody else getting out of‑‑  
   
 Q.   What do you have to do tomorrow?   Do you need to be more aggressive than usual just because of your situation?  
MATT KUCHAR:   You can only do what you can with the score.   There's no sense in being silly, just play the shot that gives you the best chance to make a reasonable score out here.   I think your game plan doesn't change, it's just a matter of making putts or not.  
   
 Q.   How much do these swirling winds make you rethink your club selection, especially in the fairways?  
MATT KUCHAR:   A lot, a lot.   It's difficult because there's a lot of holes, 13, 15, where water is in play.   So it's a tricky one.   You've got to be so precise, and you go a couple yards too short, you're coming back down, like 14.   You come up a couple yards short and you're back down the slope.   It's tricky picking clubs for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT