WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2013
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Matt Kuchar, back for day two, obviously means good things for you.   Congratulations on a successful match here at the Accenture Match Play Championship.   We'll pick up where we left off yesterday and tell us about the match today. 
MATT KUCHAR:   It was a good battle with Sergio.   I felt like around this course, his power and driving ability was a big advantage, being able to take it over some of those cross bunkers.   He's, I think, one of the best drivers in the game.   It can make golf courses pretty easy driving it as well as he can.
We had a good match that was kind of 1‑up, 1‑down, all the way through about hole 14.   I birdied 14, 15 to go‑‑ birdied 14 to go 1‑up, we both birdied 15 to keep it 1‑up, halved 16 with pars, and then I had a great approach to two and a half feet on 17 to be able to close the match out 2 & 1. 

Q.   People will look at the two top seeds getting knocked out, and they'll say that's what's the trouble with match play, other people will say that's the beauty of match play.   Do you like the fact that you lose the top people, or does it matter?   How do you approach it? 
MATT KUCHAR:   As a golfer I think it's great.   As a TOUR professional, I think we could use a few extra non‑stroke play events.   I really miss the Castle Pines International format.   I wish we still played that.   People could say it favors different people, and you may not get the top names at the top of the leaderboard.   Match play is a funny animal.   I think it's a great format, and I think it's great to have an event like this through the year.   Top players may get knocked out, but I think that's part of the beauty of‑‑ and shoot, the top two players in the world missed the cut their first start in‑‑ where did they play, Abu Dhabi or Dubai?   So you could have the same thing happen in a stroke‑play event.   It is still possible for them to get knocked out early. 

Q.   The last two days, at least on TV, they've been talking a lot about conceding putts and the science of that.   Is there a science to it?   When you're in a match do you‑‑ anything inside the leather in your mind is good, or it just depends entirely on the situation?
MATT KUCHAR:   I think depending on who's putting, who it is.   If you're talking about playing Brad Faxon, you're going to concede him longer putts than you will somebody else.   And situation, if it's a straight uphill putt compared to a‑‑ if it's a three‑footer straight up hill compared to a three‑footer downhill left to right.   There is no number, it's just kind of a feeling.

Q.   Does it matter where you're at in the match? 
MATT KUCHAR:   No, no, I think there's no real rhyme or reason to when a putt gets conceded.   I think you've just got to feel like the guy is going to make 100 percent of them, and when you feel like he'll make 100 percent of them, you give it to him.

Q.   Do you have any idea what happened to Sergio on his tee shot on No.7 where he ended up way over in the 5th fairway? 
MATT KUCHAR:   He hit it in the 2nd fairway, and that was intentional.

Q.   Oh, he did?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yes. 

Q.   How do you get a yardage over there? 
MATT KUCHAR:   It's a shorter yardage.   It's a bit of a guessing game, but it's a much shorter yardage than going down the 8th fairway. 
DOUG MILNE:   Matt, congratulations.   Keep it up.   We appreciate your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT