THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
May 30, 2019
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 2013 champ, a long conversation between yourself and PGA TOUR official Robby Ware on 17th fairway.  Describe the situation?
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, I heard from Mark Immelman the ball had landed further back and rolled into the pitch mark area, it bounced in the pitch mark.  And so with my knowledge, that's bad luck.  You have to play it like it is.
However, then I heard it bounced in there and thought there was potential that it might have created a separate -- had broken ground again.  That was my question, was that a new pitch now, is that a new potential embedded ball.  The rules officials, they know the rules a lot better than I do.  I thought there was potential that it might have broken additional ground and is that a new embedded ball.  I'm not sure, and that's why we have the rules officials.
Q. You did call for a second opinion, and Steve Cox came over to join the discussion, as well.  Are you satisfied with the result?
MATT KUCHAR: Well, I'm certainly satisfied with making a 4 there.  I like to think things work out the way they're supposed to.  Making 4 there is all I can ask for.
Q. You played a lot of great golf here, seven top-10s here, of course you won in 2013.  What is it about this event that makes it so special, a great field year after year?
MATT KUCHAR: I love the event.  I love the golf course.  They do such a good job, from the moment you arrive here in the greater Columbus, Ohio.  It's a fantastic event from all the volunteers.  They get so behind it, meet us at the airport, help us with luggage, you name it, they have taken care of it for us.  Locker room is one of those special locker rooms in golf.
And then this golf course is a proper test of golf.  You play good golf, you make birdies, you can tell by the scores today the guys are playing good, shot some low numbers.
I was in the rough way too often.  I just couldn't dig it out.
Q. Jack doesn't just give away the trophy, he makes you earn it.  How do you expect this golf course to evolve and maybe get more difficult as the week wears on?
MATT KUCHAR: Well, it rewards good shots and punishes the bad shots.  If the winning score is 24-under, it's 24-under.  I expect it not to get that low.  But it's a really good test of golf.
Q. Can you talk through that situation on 17 with that ball mark?
MATT KUCHAR: Sure.  I went up to it, saw that it was in a pitch mark, heard that it was not my pitch mark.  I think it was Mark Immelman that said, Your ball landed short.  With that you know the rule is clear that you play it as it lies.  However, I heard that it bounced in there, and when I actually saw the video of it, maybe there's potential here that it broke new ground, and called over the rules official.  Not sure exactly the embedded ball rule, as far as if a ball breaks new ground and in someone else's pitch mark, is that a new embedded ball.  And so confusing rule to me and the benefit of why we have rules officials to help sort through those things.
Q. Did you call on a second opinion?
MATT KUCHAR: Correct.  Rickie was all over me like a hawk out there.
Q. The ruling I guess was the same for both?
MATT KUCHAR: Correct.
Q. Were you satisfied with the conclusion they came to?
MATT KUCHAR: Listen, it's the rule.  I thought there was potential.  But I don't know and only by looking at the replay that I saw in the eyehole it looked like there was potential that it might have broken new ground.  And I guess it's not a new embedded ball if it breaks new ground.  One plug mark is all you can make, I guess.
Q. Do you remember calling for a second opinion, have you done that before with rulings over the years?
MATT KUCHAR: No, no.  And listen, the only reason I did it is just from seeing the video.  And not being totally clear on the rules.  And they're tricky enough.  The game is tricky and we're lucky to have great staff out here.  And I certainly trust their opinion.  I only asked for a second one because I thought there was potential and just thought, you never know, you may get somebody else that says, hey, there is potential for that to happen and we need to look further into that.
Q. What did you actually hit?
MATT KUCHAR: 7-iron.  It would have been 8 but with the lie and the hole set up with water short it needed to be an extra club.  Maybe it didn't because it came out over the green.
Q. How thrilled were you to make par?
MATT KUCHAR: I was certainly very happy.  I would have been bummed out, but I also know there are chances where you hit a ball and you end up in a divot, that's bad luck.  You end up in a pitch mark, that's really bad luck.  That's part of the game, you get bad breaks.  I was very pleased to make 4, regardless if I got a drop, 4 would have been good.  Without a drop, 4 is really good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT