HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2012
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Matt, comment on your first round.   Great start, one week after the PLAYERS win. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Coming off momentum, a little tired.   It was a whole lot of extra curricular activities out of the norm for me, but I feel good about the game. 
I had a chance to spend some time with Chris O'Connell, continuing to get the game dialed in.   I'm excited with the way I'm playing and excited with what I'm doing with Chris, and the U.S. Open not too far around the corner, hope to keep things going. 

Q.   Talk about your birdies today.   Any of them stand out? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I had a great drive on 1 and a great wedge that went in a place where you can't get up and down, and I was lucky to escape with a bogey.   I bounced back with a great shot on 2, made par, and birdie on 3 was nice.   That's a tough hole.   I think normally it's a par 5, and to play it as a par 4 and walk away with a birdie there is a great score, and felt like I knew I was playing well but nice to get back on the good side of things again. 
That was a good start and backed it up with a birdie on 4 and kept playing good golf. 

Q.   Any fatigue factor coming off last week? 
MATT KUCHAR:   A little tired.   Fortunately the kids have been sleeping well and I've been getting good sleep.   I've been putting in extra time with Chris on the range, and all the extra stuff takes a little out of you. 
This is a week I'm excited to be here, looking forward to playing good golf here. 

Q.   Could you talk about your round, please? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Strong.   A lot of fairways, greens, continuing the good play.   I feel good about the way I'm hitting it and putting. 
Steady round of golf, just got off to a bogey after a couple of good shots and glad to get things going after that. 

Q.   To be the top‑ranked player in the field, is that interesting, unusual? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Doesn't much concern me.   That's not something I think a whole lot about, just a lot of good players out here.   Everybody‑‑ feels like the field is deep with a lot the good guys with a shot at winning.   That's the neat thing about the game of golf, so many have a good chance week in and week out. 

Q.   Once you got out here and started playing did it carry over from last week, did you feel you had good momentum? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, there is extra confidence, knowing that I'm doing a lot of things well.   This is a tricky golf course and fortunately the wind wasn't a factor today.   This place normally the wind blows pretty good and plays hard, and with these conditions I knew there would be birdies to be had. 

Q.   You said you were working hard with Chris this week.   Why?   You just won! 
MATT KUCHAR:   There are some things to‑‑ some room for improvement, some things I would like to continue to dial in on my ball striking.   Having Chris here, we don't have that many chances to get together, and I figured I would take advantage, and the U.S. Open is not far around the corner.   I'm hoping to really continue to be sharp and get even sharper come the U.S. Open. 

Q.   What were you working on? 
MATT KUCHAR:   The same stuff, you know, getting the club as close to the shaft line as possible, so getting the hand lower and tighter to my body. 

Q.   How did you celebrate down there? 
MATT KUCHAR:   They did a great job at TPC with the‑‑ it's the Players' Grill Room area, opened it up to us, had a bunch of family, couple of guys stuck around, Zach stuck around, Lance was there, another caddie, Brian Reed, and it was a good two hours of‑‑ I don't know what you would call it‑‑ going to different places to kind of make the rounds before I was able to get there and start celebrating! 
But the guys stayed late at the clubhouse, fantastic food, great wine, and just some fun people to reminisce and watch the highlights on the Golf Channel, that was cool.   I'm hoping to get with friends and have a big celebration but it was a great way to close out Sunday night. 

Q.   You're not going to tank it the rest of the year just because you have one in the bag? 
MATT KUCHAR:   I hope not!   I'm looking forward to the U.S. Open. 

Q.   Are you the kind of guy that wants to play after a win or did you come here because you were committed to? 
MATT KUCHAR:   A win like that I would like to enjoy a little more, it would be nice to have some time to enjoy it, but I know an off‑week is coming up and we will make sure we get friends around and make sure we celebrate. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Matt.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT