MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I was awfully pleased.   I played really steady, solid golf today.   I was never in trouble.   Bummer to have the 3‑putt bogey on 17 as my lone bogey, but then it was a great bounce back there with a birdie on 18.   It's a tough hole.   I hit a 5 iron and a 4 iron into it and walked away 2 under par.   It's been kind to me, but it's a tough one.

Q.   You look at the leaderboard at all out there?   Are you surprised nobody went low out there with the calm conditions? 
MATT KUCHAR:   This morning was cold and windy and I think it had to be tough.   I think ‑‑ I was pretty pleased with my draw.   It seemed to be pretty good weather for the guys that played early than late.   But the course is tough.   It's long.   It's soft.   There are some birdie opportunities on some par 5s, but other than that it's a tough course.

Q.   Nice feeling to be in contention in a major? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, yeah, it's awfully fun.   It's still only Friday afternoon, but I'm looking forward to a late tee time Saturday and see if I can get another one on Sunday.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
MATT KUCHAR:   Today.   5 iron yesterday. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
MATT KUCHAR:   I think I had 200 yards to the hole.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
MATT KUCHAR:   No.   It was 190, I'm sorry, uphill to 200.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
MATT KUCHAR:   The was a ‑‑ the pin location today was probably more friendly than yesterday for making birdies.   You can use that back slope if you get it kind of just in the middle of the green.   The slope works in your favor on that hole.   I think it rolled up to the middle of the green and then back to six feet.

Q.   When you were a kid watching this on TV, do you remember that hole and how guys can blow it over the bunker?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, yeah.

Q.   Do you wish you had that option?
MATT KUCHAR:   I can't even sniff the bunker right now.   This is completely different.   I still remember my couple of years as an amateur, '98 and '99, and hitting a lot of 8 irons, 9‑irons, 7 irons into that hole.   Now I'm not even near those clubs.

Q.   You get a one‑stroke lead here (inaudible)?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, yeah, I think 18, the tee shot is so crucial there.   It's so narrow with trouble on both sides.   The biggest part of that hole is just getting your tee ball in play.

Q.   How much of the course playing longer would you attribute to the way the fairways are mowed?   The grass is leafier and longer than ‑‑
MATT KUCHAR:   I watched the highlights from the '97 Masters when Tiger won.   I had forgotten how different his swing was back then.   The thing that got me most was how much the ball rolled.   The ball was rolling 80 yards.   They showed him playing 14, 3‑wood, lob wedge.   The ball was just rolling forever. 
And so the way they've maintained the course is certainly different, certainly a factor.   That year things might have been firmer than they are this year, but I can't remember in the last couple of years the balls really rolling out at all.   The way it's maintained keeps the ball in the shorter distances. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT