MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How comfortable was it out there today? 
MATT KUCHAR:   I find this course challenging, difficult.   It's not always very comfortable.   It's so much longer‑‑ my memories of this place are the ones of my amateur days and having a lot more short irons in.   I hit a great drive today and smashed a 5‑iron to get it back to the hole on 18.   I don't remember many 5‑irons. 
But all in all, I shot 1‑under par, birdied the last.   It was a great way to finish.   I'm pretty pleased. 

Q.   Some of the players are coming in talking about having mud on balls and just trying to figure out what to do.   Did you have that issue today? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Very, very small amount.   It was okay for me. 

Q.   And 18 is kind of hurting some people today.   Is it the pin?
MATT KUCHAR:   It's a hard hole.   It's just a difficult driving hole, and even if you hit the fairway, it's a hard second shot.   I had 203 to the hole uphill.   It's a hard hole. 

Q.   The differences you talk about with the clubs, why?   Is it because they've lengthened it?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, it's the lengthening and the wetness of the course, the softness of the course.   It seems like as well as the mowing pattern, you get some wedge shots that you're always into the grain.   It's always much trickier now that they've started mowing from greens back to tees.   I think any time you lay up on a par‑5, you've got an into‑the‑grain wedge shot, which is a tricky wedge shot.   15 always pops out in my mind that's one of those that's nerve wracking.   You're hitting over water.   You're hitting into the green.   It's easy to catch a little too much grass and come up short.

Q.   You alluded a little bit to your amateur days, but do you look back at that time anymore and how far you've come and where you are? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Still some great memories.   I don't often reflect on where I was, just some really happy, positive memories. 

Q.   How do you prepare tonight when bad weather is supposed to be coming in tomorrow, there's no telling what's going to happen to the round? 
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, fortunately we're in this situation a fair bit.   You get used to‑‑ it's not like any other sport where there's like a solid tip‑off time.   You don't have a standard time.   You play once in the morning, once in the afternoon, and it's always subject to change.   So you get pretty accustomed to adjustments.   I'm guessing the course is going to be wet and soft again tomorrow. 









END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT