MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2012
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You came up a little bit short today but you had a great run there on the back nine.   
MATT KUCHAR:   It was a good run.   I so wish I could have hole No.9 over again.   I three‑putted from about seven feet.   Felt like I hit my approach shot in a place I couldn't get up‑and‑down, and as I was walking off with a double, it was a real killer.   But I stayed in it.   
I think that's something I pride myself on doing.   I wasn't going to give up, and all of a sudden there I was after 15 tied for the lead for the moment, and it was awfully exciting.   It's such an exciting tournament to be right there with a chance to win.   It was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the adrenaline going to that 16th tee after you make eagle there.   Did that factor into hitting that one right?   
MATT KUCHAR:   No, I mean, I was definitely pumped up, but it's a quick wake‑up call with that pin.   You know you've got your work cut out for you.   You've got to hit a great shot in there.   I've been playing a shot that seemed like it was going to be pretty good, and just left it hanging.   It was just barely off.   You don't have to be off by much for things to go wrong around here.  
   
 Q.   The back nine of Augusta has to be one of the greatest theaters in golf, and to be out there on a Sunday and be a part of it, what does that mean?  
MATT KUCHAR:   This is my first real experience with being in the hunt on the back nine of Augusta.   It's awesome.   I don't know that there's much else like it.   It was truly just a great afternoon.   It was a lot of fun and great to have a chance.   
   
 Q.   Is that the most fun you've had since you referenced your amateur year?   Is that the most fun you've had here since then?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, yeah, absolutely.   Those amateur days were a real treat.   That was a special time.   To be an amateur, to have a shot, to be playing well in the Masters was really special, and especially for a first time.   When I come back here, I still feel like that same 19‑year‑old kid, and now to be back and to have a chance to win the title was really exciting.   
   
 Q.   What did you learn about yourself today?   
MATT KUCHAR:   I've always felt like I was never going to give up, and I've played a lot of rounds of golf where things weren't going well, and I stuck with it knowing that there was going to be a situation and a time like this where things weren't going to go my way there for a while, and if I could stick with it‑‑ it was great to see those efforts pay off.   I had a double bogey on 9, I three‑putted from seven feet and got myself right back in it, and it was pretty exciting.  
   
 Q.   The tee shot on 16, what happened?  
MATT KUCHAR:   It's a tough shot for me.   A draw is not my natural shot.   I tried to aim it right and just play for the middle of the green, and I hit a solid shot, it was probably one of my more natural shots, it just leaked a little bit.   It was not that far off, and you can really struggle to make par around here.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about 12, 13 and then obviously the eagle on 15?   
MATT KUCHAR:   We got lucky with the wind dying down on 12, so it was pretty still.   I was able to just hit a 9‑iron as hard as I could.   I hit it great.   I knew it was going to be good.   And to roll in about a 15‑footer was great.   
And then 13, hit my best drive of the week.   I was able to finally go for that green in two.   That was the first time going for it in two.   Hit a great shot just over the pin, rolled over and nearly put it in from off the green.  
And then on 15, I had just a perfect number.   It was going to be just a full 3‑wood, hold it up against the wind, and it came off just as I would have wanted it to.   I hit it, and I knew it was good, just still had to hope for a little bit, and it turned out two feet was just awesome.   
   
 Q.   How far away were you?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Adjusted 247.   It must have been 268, something like that, I think, total number to the pin.  
   
 Q.   You didn't go for the two par‑5s in two yesterday because the drives weren't long enough?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, exactly right.   Exactly.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT