MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2012
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you leaderboard watch enough to know that you were either tied or in possession of the lead from like 7 through 11 or 12 or so?  
MATT KUCHAR:   I do my best not to.   I don't mind if I do catch one.   It's hard to avoid, but I do my best to avoid.   There's so many names on the leaderboard, I didn't take enough time to really glance up and see just where I stood.  
   
 Q.   Overall the round, I imagine, you are happy, but can you talk about 13 and 15?   You kind of maybe lost some strokes there, you thought?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, yeah.   For me, I thought I played them well, played them smart.   Unfortunately had a 3 putt on 13.   I laid up and hit a wedge shot and I thought was good.   Got up to the top of the hill and rolled back down.   It was a tough 2 putt from there.   It's a hard green.  
15, was pretty happy with where I laid up there.   Had a nice wedge in.   Again, thought I had a beautiful wedge.   It skipped over and was a tough up and down from over the green on 15.   So to be 1 over on those two holes, you feel like you are losing strokes.  
I felt like I hit for the most part all good shots and ended up just being 1 over.   That's easy to have happen here.  
   
 Q.   How about 18?   You birdied it.   Describe it for us a little bit.  
MATT KUCHAR:   Drove it in the right side of the fairway, had to play a fade around the trees, hit a great shot that just rolled up on the top level and made a 20 footer.   I was real excited, made a probably a 12 footer to save par on 17 and to make the 20 footer on 18 was a really nice way to finish.  
   
 Q.   How close were you hoping to get the ball on 4 out of that bunker?   I mean, you had a lot of green to work with and everything.   Were you expecting to get it ‑‑ I guess you never expect to hole it, do you?  
MATT KUCHAR:   No.   I didn't expect to hole that one, no.   That was one I knew the line was good.   I knew that my club was the right club.   I went to a 57 degree to let the ball run out a little more and came out good.   I was looking to have a short par putt.   I wasn't looking to hole that one.  
On 12, I actually had a really good lie.   I felt like that was a chance to make another bunker shot and role it just over the edge.   The couple of bunkers I was in, made some good shots out of them.  
   
 Q.   You have been under the radar this week.   Do you enjoy that?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, yeah.   I do.   We've had a lot of fun, been able to go home and hang out with the family.   We have got my parents, my wife's parents, my dad's parents, my two kids, my sister and her kids, so we've had a bunch of family here.   It's really been a lot of fun.   I think it's such a family week for us.   It's nice for me to go back home and be under the radar and just be part of the family.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel that something special is going on there with Phil and Peter?  
MATT KUCHAR:   I didn't check out the leaderboard at all.   I heard some roars, but really had no idea where they were coming from.  
   
 Q.   What was it like out there (inaudible)?   At one point I think there were 8 guys tied for the lead today.   Put us in your shoes out there.  
MATT KUCHAR:   I had a couple.   It was fun.   I made a birdie on nine and it was awesome to hear that roar.   It's a special feeling when they cheer for you and then a great birdie on 18.   That's fun to be a part of.   Fun when those go your way.   You can hear them from afar as well.   You kind of wonder and you know it's something good.   But it takes some leaderboard watching to figure it out.  
   
 Q.   Can it be unnerving a little bit at times?   Or do you try to block that out?  
MATT KUCHAR:   I think maybe come Sunday afternoon if you are around the lead and you know somebody else is doing something good, I don't think Saturday it's not unnerving at all.  
   
 Q.   I heard you and Big Kuch have got a running gin rummy game going.   Who is winning right now?  
MATT KUCHAR:   He's got a couple points up on me right now.   Yeah, we just had a couple of games but he's a couple of points up so far.  
   
 Q.   What is your mindset going into tomorrow?   Do you like your position and where you stand?  
MATT KUCHAR:   I'd certainly rather be much more under par than I am right now, but I feel like I've got a chance.   It's awfully exciting position to have a chance.  
   
 Q.   What happened to your approach on 17?   You left it a little bit short?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Just a mis‑hit.  
   
 Q.   How long was that putt on nine that you ran out?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Probably 20 feet.  
   
 Q.   Do the majority of players who have won when Masters falls on an Easter Sunday have been first time winners.   Have you thought about that at all?  
MATT KUCHAR:   No, no.   I'm not superstitious at all.   Won't play into my mind at all.  
   
 Q.   Does it have any significance to you that tomorrow is Easters and you are playing the Masters?  
MATT KUCHAR:   I think for everybody out here it will have some significance.   I think it's a special, special day.   It will be a special Sunday tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Is it fun playing back in Georgia where people kind of get behind you?   A lot of people hollering at you as you walk up and down the fairway?  
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, this is a fun place to play.   It feels extra special to me with the couple of years I had here as an amateur and to just have those great memories, it's fun to be back here.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT