NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 17, 2012
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Solid round today.   Talk about the conditions and how you played today. 
MATT KUCHAR:   Played well today, solid, stayed out of trouble, drove it in a lot of fairways.   The greens are tricky.   Getting balls close to the pins is a tricky thing because of how firm they seem to be.   That first bounce is always a big bounce, and then short of the greens is so sticky that you really can't land the ball short.   You're looking to land it one, two, three steps on, and that's a small margin.

Q.   Did you get stung by something out there?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I did.   I haven't been stung by a bee in probably 20 years.   I had stopped being scared of bees as a matter of fact.   The thing got me, and it was really painful.   It was not much fun.

Q.   Where did it happen?
MATT KUCHAR:   The 6th green, right in the forearm.

Q.   Then you stood up and knocked it close on the next hole?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, I actually hit one real close on 6 green, then got stung and missed a short putt.   I continued played some good golf.   I had a lot of chances, played 7 and 8 and 9 pretty well.

Q.   Golf is such a mentally challenging game to begin with.   How mentally tough was that to get stung by a bee and realize I'm still playing well here?
MATT KUCHAR:   I wasn't quite sure what was going to be the end result of a bee sting.   I wasn't sure how bad it would get.   I was pretty sure things would be fine.   It hurt and continued to stay.   It felt like my elbow was a bit on fire after the bee sting.   But I kept going.   They said if you have trouble breathing, stop, and we'll try to help you from there.   But thankfully everything continued to go pretty normally.

Q.   That's the last thing you want to hear on a golf course, if you're having problems breathing.   Did you take a Benadryl or anything?
MATT KUCHAR:   The doctor said if something comes up where you have some tightness in your throat and some trouble breathing, take it, but otherwise it'll make you drowsy and not to take it.

Q.   How do you feel going into the weekend?
MATT KUCHAR:   Yeah, playing some good golf.   I'm excited to be playing.   I love this golf course.   It's a pretty good fit for me.   It's a fun place to be with a chance on the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT