WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2012
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   3 up after 7, 3 up after 11, and you had to make a birdie at 18 to win?  
MATT KUCHAR:   3 up with 8 to go, I was feeling pretty happy with how I was playing, feeling pretty confident about my chances.   And then I think we had maybe two or three hole in a row where Jaybird made two birdies.   I made one bogey and all of a sudden we were even with four to go.   It was a battle from there.   
Fortunately, we played some pretty good golf at the end.   Fun to end with a birdie.   I think 18 is such a tough hole.   It's one you never want to win where a guy makes a bogey.   So fun to cap it off.   
I was trying to stay aggressive there on 18 and drove it in the bunker with the aggressive club selection out of there.   I hit a pitching wedge just as hard as I could and it turned out great.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the decision to hit the wedge.   I know you and your caddy were talking over things.   You left the bunker a couple of times to take a look.   Go through that thought process.   
MATT KUCHAR:   Generally I'm looking just to get it out.   I'm going to play some sort of slice out of there just to get the ball up in the air.   I had a lip to contend with there.   My caddy reassured me a wedge is plenty.   I generally feel more comfortable trying to take a little more club and hitting a cut.   And he said a wedge is plenty.   The ball is going.   I hit it great.   It was one of those things where you're glad you have a caddy.  
   
 Q.   You have got Bubba Watson tomorrow.   Talk about playing Bubba in Round 2.   
MATT KUCHAR:   Bubba is a fantastic player and if he's on, he's going to be tough to beat.   Guys that can make these golf courses like real easy.   If he's driving it long and in the fairways, he's hitting short irons in, hard to mess up when you are doing that.   If he's on, I really got my work cut out for me.   
I'm just going to plug along.   I have got a steady game plan to try and hit fairways and greens.  
   
 Q.   You said you played a practice round with Woodland and that's kind of the same length as Bubba.   Just talk about that.   
MATT KUCHAR:   Playing with Gary Woodland on Tuesday.   We played a nine hole, just a mock match and Gary.   He was just driving it beautifully and hitting short irons in.   I have got long irons in and he made the golf course looks easy.   
Playing against guys with that length, if they are on, it's hard to beat them.   
   
 Q.   Any advantage to hitting first, though, and being the first guy to put one close to the green?   
MATT KUCHAR:   You have got to put it close.   That's the hard thing when you've got a longer iron going.   And these greens are so tricky.   They are such small areas to hit into that coming in with a short iron I think is such advantage.   If he's on, I'm going to have to try and look at it as advantage of hitting first and try and hit one up there close.  
   
 Q.   Did you go back after last year's consolation match?   Is there a way now to scout out how you might play differently?   
MATT KUCHAR:   No, no.   I find it so interesting what they do here with the moving of the tee boxes all around.   They can really change the course up.   You won't know until tomorrow morning what we're going to be looking at out there as far as the course and making a game plan.   For the most part, I have got to stick to my game plan and be conservative, try to make pars and hope he's not on fire.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT