PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2011
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What happened on 12?
 MATT KUCHAR: A good drive, bounced off into the first cut and hit a lousy shot. From there, I was coming from the left green-side bunker and just hit a bad shot. Bounced back and tripled down up against the out-of-bounds fence, figured it was best just to try to chip it backwards and hit a reasonable chip towards the hole. 
 It was just a difficult shot. The ball is right up against the fence. I had to try to really hood the club. There was one tree that really didn't seem to even come into my mind as being a problem. But hit the tree and came right back into an identical position, yet a worse lie. However, the tree wasn't out of the way. 
 So I chipped back to where I wanted to chip in the first place. Chipped that one on the green and it was a pretty good shot. I think I had seven feet or so for a bogey and missed. You know, one bad shot that turned out to be just a really bad shot. A lot of times you can get away with a miss here and there, and that was just a hole that you couldn't get away with a miss. 
 The double on 14, that was just a series of kind of bad breaks. I hit a bad drive that just missed the fairway in the bunker and had not much of a stance at all. I was kind of half in, half out of the bunker trying to hit it and didn't strike it solidly. 
 Came up short in a really short bunker, on the downslope, on that one. From there, tried to advance it to the next bunker, and did that. And wasn't able to get that up-and-down. So it was kind of -- some good shots in really bad places.

 Q. A few guys have talked about the bunkers being really sandy, a lot of sand, a lot of plugs. 
 MATT KUCHAR: Funny how the -- I'm not sure the raking technique -- it seems like they are frothy if you're the first one in, and if anybody has raked over that area, you get a really nice lie. I'm not sure how they initially rake them, but they are just kind of clumpy. A lot of little sand clumps. 

 Q. Outside of a couple of guys that went real low, a lot of guys around that even-par mark. What are your thoughts heading into tomorrow? 
 MATT KUCHAR: Seemed like even par was going to be a pretty decent score. A couple of guys going really low, and it seemed like, looking at the course after practice rounds, you would be pretty pleased to be right around par. I think a couple under is going to be a good score. 
 So I had two big hiccups, which is uncharacteristic for me. I'm hitting it pretty well. I feel like I'm definitely not out of it just yet. 

 Q. Having gone to Georgia Tech and played in Atlanta before, do you feel a little more pressure? 
 MATT KUCHAR: I think it's more fun. I think there's a lot of Georgia Tech supporters. I had to explain to Lee Westwood what a Yellow Jacket was. The mascot thing, he wasn't sure. But a lot of variations of Yellow Jackets that are thrown out from bumblebees to I can't remember what else, but a lot of variations of Yellow Jackets were out there. It's fun to see. It's fun to see even the University of Georgia fans are happy to see a guy with Georgia ties playing and doing well. It's a nice environment to be part of. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT