THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 5, 2011
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MATT KUCHAR: We made the turn same as yesterday, 5-under, was playing great golf, and a little disheartening again to see Stricker doing the same thing, making tons of birdies. My 5-under on the front didn't gain any ground on him. It was tough to see. Got two more on the back, played great golf. But looks like just not quite good enough.  
  
  Q. Did you and Brandt feed off of each other out there?  
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, there was some great golf being played. It was fun. It always helps when you see balls going in the hole, and there were a lot of balls going in the hole today. There was just a lot of great shots and Brandt played some really solid golf out there.  
  
  Q. If I would have told you 15-under at the beginning of the tournament, that would be your final score, would you have taken it at that point?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I have no idea what normal under par winning scores are. I'm not real good at that stuff.   
  
  Q. When the fan (inaudible) on 17 green did that have any effect on you?  
 MATT KUCHAR: No, I think at that point I had become a scoreboard watcher. Normally I don't feel like watching a scoreboard can help me play. When I was two shots back, Steve had a couple tough holes. I know 16 is a really tough hole, heard a big, big roar. I might have been walking middle of 18th fairway.   
 Speaking of which, they should be on the clock. I think he should get maybe penalized a couple shots. We need to go look into that straight away. (Laughter.) At least I think two shots would be an appropriate penalty. I'm pretty sure.   
 I heard the roar on -- when I was on 18 fairway and I'm assuming he did something good. I figured it was Stricker. Being two shots down, I knew I needed to make a birdie. Steve is a solid player.  
  
  Q. Had you hit driver off of 18 in previous rounds?  
 MATT KUCHAR: In a practice round, not in a previous round. It's always been a 3-wood.  
  
  Q. On 15 when you went for it in two and your ball went right and it bounced off a bank, were you surprised it didn't go in the hazard?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I didn't even know there was a hazard down there. I knew right was better than left. I didn't want to miss it left again. I knew to a left pin I was not going to get it up-and-down and right I had a chance to get it up-and-down. It went further right than I would have liked, but still had a chance to get up-and-down, 8-footer for birdie.  
  
  Q. How did the rain delay change the golf course and your mindset?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I think it was probably -- probably slowed Brandt and I down a little bit. I had just hit a great shot into 14 and was able to capitalize after the rain delay with a three-footer. But we had such a good rhythm going and such a good feel out there that it seemed like afterwards we just came out a little bit lower.  
  
  Q. Did it change the golf course at all?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I think the course was a little bit slower. It got a little bit longer for things to grow. I think there was probably a little bit of rain, a little bit of softness out there.  
  
  Q. The way you played, do you almost just tip your hat?  
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, absolutely. Steve Stricker is a great player, too. You can't control what other people do at the same time. You can control what you can do and I played some great golf for four days. If somebody beats you, you do, you tip your hat and say, Great playing, Steve.  
  
  Q. You shoot 65, couldn't squeeze him any more than that?  
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, I had such a good drive on 18, I had a legitimate opportunity and then on 15 I had a good drive there and there was a reachable par-5. But aside from that, I played some great golf today.  
  
  Q. He was right there, I think he had to get up-and-down on 16 and 17.   
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, that's well done.  
  
  Q. So what are you going to do, right?  
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Sometimes it's just like, he beat me today?  
 MATT KUCHAR: He beat me this week, yeah.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT