THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2011
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Nice three-ball for a variety of reasons today, wasn't it?  
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, yeah, it was interesting, and it was only a nine-hole three-ball. Turned quickly into a two-ball.   
 Tiger looked like he was in pain today. Looked like you could tell he was walking quite slowly, quite gingerly it seemed like. He was just last to get to his ball every time as he was just walking so gingerly. It was funny, it looked like he was putting it great and driving it great, but the clubs, other than those two, weren't so good for him today.  
  
  Q. Could you tell right away the first couple holes?  
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, probably by the second hole I knew that -- you could tell. That walk wasn't normal, and I think by the third hole started seeing some grimacing.  
  
  Q. Did he say anything?  
 MATT KUCHAR: No, no, never said a word. Just said, "Have a good back nine. Play well." Other than that, never mentioned any pain, any discomfort. Didn't say a word about it.  
  
  Q. Was it surprising to you just how long it took for him to get from tee to the second shot? He was like a minute, minute and a half behind you guys.   
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, you could see, he must have been really in pain. He was definitely walking much slower than us.  
  
  Q. You've had a couple decent results here, 14ths, 15ths, right in there. Your old man still lives here in town. Do you get out here and do you feel like you know this track any better than anybody else?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I don't feel like I have a whole lot more course knowledge. I came down two Wednesdays ago and played it and came down last Saturday and played it. I don't feel like I have advantage over the veterans, the guys that have played it 10, 15 years. But it's certainly a place that I like. I feel like I'm a good driver of the golf ball, and around here that's one of the more important things to do is put yourself in the fairway and have chances to hit and hold these greens.  
  
  Q. How different is the course today than it was a month ago, or if you play it off-season?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I didn't play much this off-season down here. I came two Wednesdays ago and I thought these fairways were probably some of the best fairways we play all year, just absolutely perfect, and still looked great. Amazing the lengths they go to and what they can do with the golf course with the time and the budget they have. The course just gets in spectacular shape.  
  
  Q. Have you played with Martin Kaymer before today?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I played with him last year first two rounds and played with him overseas in China, HSBC two years ago. He wasn't in very good form then. Today he hit a lot of approach shots close. He had a lot of pretty much straight-in four-footers today. It was an impressive round of golf.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT