MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2011
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Good round today. Give us your thoughts on how you feel you did.   
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, the golf was good. It's always a bummer to finish with a bogey, but outside of the bogey on 18 it was a solid round of golf.   
  
  Q. What was working for you today?  
 MATT KUCHAR: Nothing different. I've been playing some pretty good golf. I haven't put myself in too many troublesome areas and I had a few opportunities with fairly simple uphill putts. It's nice when you get uphill around here. Most of the time you hit some good approach shots and there's some tricky birdie putts. And I left myself a few good birdie opportunities.  
  
  Q. You nearly holed out number 3. Did you see that as a sign of things to come when your irons would be locked in after that?  
 MATT KUCHAR: Well, I bogeyed 4.   
 (Laughter.)  
 I feel like I just played well. I don't know if 3 would have been the kick start, but it's always nice to get your first birdie around here.   
  
  Q. Talk about how 12 was playing.   
 MATT KUCHAR: It was a pretty easy hole today when we played it. It was a shorter distance and just no wind at all. Kind of wish it could play like that every time.  
  
  Q. What did you hit today?  
 MATT KUCHAR: 9-iron.   
  
  Q. Is this disconcerting to be looking for a ball yesterday and that?  
 MATT KUCHAR: No, you're going to make mistakes around here.   
  
  Q. I mean Graeme never found his yesterday on 12. Stuff can happen.   
 MATT KUCHAR: Well, yeah. It's just the game of golf. We have some funny things happen. You get used to funny things happening in the game of golf.  
  
  Q. Do you like that hole?  
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah. I do.   
  
  Q. There's a lot of guys going low today. Is it how the course is setup?  
 MATT KUCHAR: The conditions are perfect. There's a slight amount of wind, we're grateful for the breeze to keep the temperatures cool a little bit, but it's perfect conditions for playing golf.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT