SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2011
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Certainly a different golf course we see here in the second round wind-wise and as far as the firmness of the fairways. 
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, it's amazing how this course has drained and dried out. I was surprised yesterday how good it played for the amount of rain Wednesday and Thursday. Played yesterday, the course was good and the course continues to get better. It doesn't seem easy, but I think there's still some opportunities and the greens are still very receptive, so I think there will be a few more good scores.

 Q. Was the ball-striking not quite the same for you in the second round? You had 11 greens, three bunkers, and you covered it up with 25 putts. 
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, short game was good. Unfortunately missed a few opportunities, 18 being one. I hit a 3-wood into the green and walked away with par there. But yesterday I think the ball-striking was a little sharper. I hit the ball a little closer to the hole, a little easier to make putts.

 Q. What should we look forward to here in the afternoon?
 MATT KUCHAR: I think you'll probably see scoring similar to yesterday. I think 5-, 6-under will probably be some of the low rounds of the day and a lot of even pars, 1-, 2-, 3-unders.

 Q. You should have a chance on Sunday, though, I would think. 
 MATT KUCHAR: It's going to be exciting. With 36 holes on Sunday you can make a big move. If you get on the right side of things early you can move up and gain some big ground. I'm hoping that I get things going tomorrow early.

 Q. Can you just talk overall about your game and how you feel coming in here? 
 MATT KUCHAR: I feel good. I had a nice week last week. I put in some good work beforehand, went to Palm Springs the week before Maui, put some work in with my instructor and feel like we got some good things going, continued with some good form from 2010, and I'm excited. I really enjoy this place. I'm looking forward to having a solid 2011. 

 Q. Does it feel like 2010 just didn't even stop, like the calendar just kind of -- like you just kept going?
 MATT KUCHAR: I had a nice break. I wasn't really sure how 2011 would get started. I took a lot of time off, and looking at my schedule, trying to figure out how I'd perform best in 2011. I thought it was taking a good break in October and November, basically completely off. You never quite know if you kind of have it, and it's fun to have it again come 2011. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT