THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 6, 2010
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Is it likely you'll ever do a schedule like this again, 10 out of 11 weeks, 9 out of 10? 
 MATT KUCHAR: I think it was -- I guess that may be 2 more. There was a complete off week in there. I had two weeks without golf, but one of those included a week that there was no event. 

 Q. That's right. I remember that. It was a dark week.
 MATT KUCHAR: So I played really 8 out of 10, but I think it might have been 9 out of 10 tournaments. 
 I don't know. I don't know. This is more than -- certainly more than I'd like to, but shoot, Stuart Appleby played 13 in a row and won. I think you saw after that he was pretty worn out.

 Q. But that's kind of like the nature of the competition now, if you want to have a chance to win that thing.
 MATT KUCHAR: Jim Furyk won the thing. I don't think he played nearly as many. He didn't even play the first FedExCup. 
 It's hard for me to say what my schedule would look like. I enjoy playing golf. It's hard for me not to play. I just -- I like being out there and I like playing. 

 Q. Have you had a chance to reflect at all over last week and what it meant to you and what the entire experience was like?
 MATT KUCHAR: It probably hasn't really soaked in, but it sure was fun. It was so exciting. 
 I don't think I knew exactly what I was getting myself into. I knew it was a big stage. I knew there would be tons of people, but I had no idea the intensity and the passion that came with the Ryder Cup from a fan's perspective. 
 I knew the players love play and I knew the players love competing and love winning, and I knew there was a lot more passion from the players' side, but I didn't know the fans were quite as intense. And I really enjoyed playing overseas for my first one. 
 I think you can see the volume and the intensity of the fans. I haven't played a U.S. Ryder Cup, but all the chants and singing songs that they do it was really a lot of fun to be part of.

 Q. Even though they weren't cheering for you, does it boil down to these people are passionate about golf?
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, for me, exactly. The first day, the first tee was really a special time. Every day, even if it was pouring down rain, the fans were out there, and they were into it. 
 They're certainly the pro European team, but just to see people that into it was great. I loved it. I loved --

 Q. Any bit of motivation to get back there and play in Chicago and play in front of your fans, see that kind of passion over here?
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah. For sure. I think anybody that plays the Ryder Cup wants to play it every year, every time they have the event. It's something you don't want to miss out on once you get a taste of it.

 Q. What are you most happy about what you did this season overall?
 MATT KUCHAR: It was just a very consistent year. I think that's something we strive for as golfers is consistency. And I think this really was the hallmark, the trademark of this year for me.

 Q. And I guess getting another entry always kind of validates things?
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah. Getting in that winner's circle is special. It's hard. You've got 140 guys, just about, every week that are the best players in the world and only one guy gets to win. It's a small percentage of us that find our way into the winner's circle, and when you do, it's a great feeling.

 Q. And in the off season is there anything you're going to be stressing as far as what you're working on?
 MATT KUCHAR: No. Not really. As players you always look to get better. I'll certainly be doing that. My off season pretty much looks like November off and I look at December as kind of being a spring training to get ready again for the new year.

 Q. Are you playing any more after this week?
 MATT KUCHAR: No. This will be it. So get a good break off and then December I'll start up again and try and get ready for the '11 season.

 Q. Any get-away plans for the family or are you guys going to do anything special? Kind of maybe reward yourselves?
 MATT KUCHAR: We're just moving into our house here. We bought a new house here, and we get to spend the night. I think tonight will be our first night in it.

 Q. Is it the whole family's first night or anybody spending the night?
 MATT KUCHAR: Anybody. Myself, my wife, my kids. We'll be in tonight.

 Q. Are you at Forest?
 MATT KUCHAR: No. Still at St. Simons. It's East Beach is what it's called.

 Q. Okay. Sounds good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT