THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2010
Dustin Johnson
Matt Kuchar
Jeff Overton
Steve Stricker
Tiger Woods
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. That pin was a little precarious. 
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, and the downhill high helped a little bit, too. I could take just a little bit of the spin off and hit a good shot. It just hung a little right off the downhill lie. Hit a draw, hung out to the right and ended up being a really good shot, after watching all of the other ones.

 Q. Yourself and Watson and Overton are playing well. 
 MATT KUCHAR: I partnered well with Stewart. Stewart played great. I think I was only in the hole, only contributing twice. He was really strong today. Great to see Bubba and Jeff playing so well. They are young, but young with confidence. That's a great thing. 

 Q. A lot of golf ahead of you. What are your thoughts on what's coming up for you? 
 MATT KUCHAR: Exciting. I think in these atmosphere, it's easy to go. It's easy for him to call your number and you're ready to go. I have a ton of energy. I think once this week is over, I may burn and crash but this week, it's easy to have the energy.

 Q. When you see that kind of risk/reward situation, do you anticipate some guys to be doing what you did, you played it safe and Stewart goes for it? 
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, proper team. I hit good shots and gave Stewart a chance to go for it. He hit a solid shot and the green was nasty and he came up only a couple feet short. 
 It was a good line, after watching those wedges and how pitch that green is, I knew the putt could get away. I knew there was a lot of break and the putt could get away easily. It was a good lie and it was just a couple of rolls short. 

 Q. Potentially interesting finish with everything rolled back. 
 MATT KUCHAR: Who knows, they will move the pins around. I'm assuming we might see just one more pin in that location. 
 JEFF OVERTON: Yeah, it was tough when you draw two tough competitors like Pádraig and Luke, two of the best of the best worldwide players there are in the game of golf right now. Me and Bubba, we knew we had to give it our all. We were nervous but we were able to put those nerves together and do something really great today. It was a lot of fun.
 It was cool, because Bubba was having good pars and I had some 15-footers for birdie and so I knew I could really give them a good run at it and didn't have to be too conservative. On these it greens you have to have the ball rolling into the hole and we worked on getting the ball, rolling it kind of firm, per se, because they are a little bit spongy with the wetness and stuff. I think that's the Europeans motto, they try to slow them down a little bit on us. 
 It's golf. We play a lot of golf. We are professionals here, and just because we are rookies doesn't mean we are going to go out there and choke. We went out there and we gave it our best. We picked a team that we felt like between me and Bubba, we would make a lot of birdies, year after year, four or five years the two of us have been out here, we have made as many birdies as anybody out on the PGA Tour. 
 So we felt really comfortable putting the two of us together, because we figured one of us is going to get on a run and it just so happened to be me there right in the middle of the round. 

 Q. How long did you know each other before this? 
 JEFF OVERTON: Just a little bit. He's always chattering and I get kind of nervous and I kind of go silent and he gets a little nervous and he likes to chirp. It's a nice combination. 
 STEVE STRICKER: It's good to finish the session with a little momentum and nice to get off to a good start.

 Q. What's it going to be like today? 
 STEVE STRICKER: It's going to be hard. You have to pace yourself, I think. You have to pace yourself, and you know, just keep your excitement level to a minimum because it's going to be a long day and you need to just take it one shot at a time and keep trying to play well. 

 Q. After the start you got off to yesterday and sitting around --
 STEVE STRICKER: Yeah, I think it's a great start for us. It's just a good start. I mean, it's going to be tough. Every session is going to be tough. We are all playing now. So the depth of the teams are going to come out, who has got the stronger team all the way down through 12 guys. That's what's going to show I think and hopefully we can all play well and you know keep doing what we're doing. 
 TIGER WOODS: Good partner today. Stricks played great today, and played great yesterday, as well. Any time he was out of the hole I was in it. We ham-and-egged it pretty well. 

 Q. Going through this golf course now, you understand and we understand what risk/reward is all about. 
 TIGER WOODS: Yeah, definitely, this golf course certainly allows that. The pin locations are a little bit difficult this first match, this first session, they have them on the high points. You could be aggressive, but you paid a price if you didn't execute. And the balls are ripping on the greens pretty good, so you had to be extra careful of that. 

 Q. Stewart hit a 250-yard 3-wood today on the green and it rolled off into the water. What was your distance on your shot? 
 TIGER WOODS: I had 240 front and obviously was trying to hit the ball, a full 3-wood and hit it past the flag somehow, anywhere past the flag, even if it was in the bunker on the green, whatever it was, just get it past the flag. Unfortunately I tried to hit it hard and I hooked it. 

 Q. A lot of water in your wedge shot? 
 TIGER WOODS: It was a muddy lie. It was a tough little lie and unfortunately just didn't get it right.
 
 Q. Could you summarise what happened? It was a tough match, we know.
 DUSTIN JOHNSON: We hit the ball pretty well today but we just got to make the putts. We have got to be more aggressive. We had our opportunities. There are plenty of chances to make a move on a lot of holes out here.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT