THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2010
Stewart Cink
Matt Kuchar
Jeff Overton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How are you feeling?   
 MATT KUCHAR: Pretty warn out. We had quite a match -- two matches with Graeme and Rory. We split in the morning and then snuck out a point in the morning. It was such an exciting match.   
  
  Q. What was it like playing with the same guy, playing against the same guys, all day long?   
 MATT KUCHAR: It's crazy to play bits of three matches in one day. I was grateful to play with Stewart all day because it didn't feel like three different matches out there. It's nice to have the same guy. I couldn't have had a better partner.   
 STEWART CINK: It was actually shorter than a typical Ryder Cup Saturday. But it seemed long because I played pieces of three matches, and they were tight. So it's exciting. It's a charged atmosphere and both teams are playing really well.   
  
  Q. What was behind your good start today?   
 STEWART CINK: It seemed like a long time ago. I need to think back to that.   
  
  Q. You won the last two session, would you have expected that?   
 STEWART CINK: Well, we came over here to win The Ryder Cup. We didn't come over here to not win the thing. Yeah, we expected to go out and play our butts off and compete. Most teams are competing hard and we holed some crucial putts, and we just have to keep going.   
  
  Q. How tense is it out there with the crowd?   
 STEWART CINK: It's tense I guess. It's not a tense thing like in a negative way. It's a charged atmosphere. The crowd is behind Europe and they ought to be. They are respectful to us when we hit good shots.   
  
  Q. You made a lot of putts, when the adrenaline is flowing like it is in a Ryder Cup, how do you calm yourself down?   
 STEWART CINK: That's a difficult thing to do. When the match is coming down to the wire and it's nerve-wracking, that's the biggest challenge out here. And that comes from practise, preparation, relying on your pre-shot routine and everything you've gone to get ready for this thing and in your whole career. You just dig deep and let the process take over and hopefully you get a good result.   
 JEFF OVERTON: It's definitely one of the coolest things in the whole world. To be a part of it, it's awesome. Me and Bubba just have to get it around tomorrow, and that would be awesome. It's been a long day. Legs are tired.   
  
  Q. How would you compare the feeling of playing out here in The Ryder Cup --  
 JEFF OVERTON: You know, I mean, it's different. The people are so confined that it definitely -- the people are definitely cheering a lot louder. But it's also really fun, because you really want to make some birdies to get them to cheer you on.   
  
  Q. Does it feel different inside the ropes? Does it feel like you're in the final group every single time?   
 JEFF OVERTON: Yeah, it does. It feels like -- it's awesome. I mean, I don't know what else to say. It's really cool. I was looking up and there's 35,000 people between four different holes, and you're standing at the base of it and you're hearing roaring coming all over the place. You've got to love it.   
  
  Q. I talked to your buddies, what is it like for you to see your friends and family out there supporting you and giving you all that?   
 JEFF OVERTON: Yeah, it almost brought tears to my irons a couple of times. I had to hold them back for sure. You see some of your best friends come all the way over here and wearing the red, white and blue, it's pretty cool.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT