THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 25, 2010
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MATT KUCHAR: There's very few pars out there today, a lot of bogeys, and then a handful of birdies. It was just a very awkward day. I got off to a good start and then it seemed like I'd get on a bogey train and then find my way back and then some more bogeys would hit. 
 The driver was just not real kind to me. It wasn't really putting me in very many good spots. And even when I missed fairways and felt like I had a pretty decent drive, I'd find myself underneath tree limbs and had to just punch out. It felt like every time I missed a fairway I was punching back out, hardly ever a shot to go for the green. So it was a frustrating day of golf.

 Q. What's your mindset? Obviously maybe too far back to win the golf tournament here, but there's a bigger prize --
 MATT KUCHAR: I'd like to have a good round of golf tomorrow, that's really it. I'm not really concerned about anything else but playing well tomorrow.

 Q. But is there any mindset of thinking about winning the FedExCup still?
 MATT KUCHAR: No, I mean, and there hasn't been all week. It's just been trying to play well here at the TOUR Championship. I've got one more day to hopefully straighten some things out.

 Q. Tell me about the course. This is as close to a major championship golf course as you play. 
 MATT KUCHAR: Really tough, I think as hard a course. These greens being so firm, I think anytime greens are firm and fast, it's hard to make a lot of birdies, and with the rough being this Bermuda rough, it's really nasty, and then it seems like the trees come into play a lot more than you think, as well.

 Q. We followed you around a little bit today and the fans were with you, the Georgia Tech, the Atlanta connection. Have you felt that, seen a lot of familiar faces?
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, I have. Been a lot of great connections, a lot of great support. I wish I could put on a better show. Hopefully tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT