THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 26, 2010
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Was today a challenge with the conditions?   
 MATT KUCHAR: Well, you know, I certainly would have liked to have finished one last hole before the break, but we had good conditions until the 16th hole it started raining. It was great. I wish we would have maybe teed off or started at 7:00 or 7:15 and maybe a lot more guys could have finished.   
  
  Q. How aware were you of the scenarios, the different -- like if you finished --  
 MATT KUCHAR: I think it's impossible to be aware of it. Who really was aware of it? Maybe some kid in front of a computer. But certainly I was not.   
  
  Q. Are you a little gassed right now? Yesterday you looked a little like you were kind of stumbling to get -- this is a lot of golf for you.   
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, I could use a couple down days, but I don't get a couple of down days for a couple weeks. I understood that. I've played a lot since the British Open, and I knew it was on my plate.   
 Unfortunately I got a little ill the week of Chicago and I think that's been kind of hard to bounce back from.  
  
  Q. Being in contention probably takes a little more air out of your balloon, too?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I think so. When you play later on Sundays it's a lot more nerve-wracking and you kind of feel a little more fatigued it seems to be.  
  
  Q. Did you take a look at the scenarios during the break?  
 MATT KUCHAR: No, I watched football. I really had no idea, and I've just kind of been informed that if Nick Watney wins and I guess a couple guys make some bogeys, I could still potentially win. But I had no real idea and was completely unconcerned with it today. It was not even on my radar screen. I was out there trying to hit good shots and really didn't give the FedExCup one ounce of thought today.   
  
  Q. Did you have an idea that a par on the last hole could make a difference one way or the other?  
 MATT KUCHAR: No. No, I had no idea. I mean, I was completely assuming that I really didn't have a chance. I don't think it played in my mind having a chance or not having a chance. I came into this week thinking that in order to win the FedExCup my goal was to win the TOUR Championship. You know, I didn't have it this week, but I played as well as I could for 72 holes. It wasn't very good, but it was what I had to offer.   
  
  Q. Could you assess your round today a little bit more specifically how you were playing?   
 MATT KUCHAR: Fairly well, still a little shaky with the driver and with the putter, as well. I made a couple putts but seemed to miss a lot of opportunities. I hit some good shots in there, ended up feeling like I three-putted the 6th hole. It was on the kind of rough cut.   
 7th hole I hit it real close, probably six feet.   
 8th hole I did three-putt.   
 It seemed like it just -- having a tricky time with some of the six-, eight-footers today which I normally feel pretty confident with. But these greens are tough. They're kind of nerve-wracking to putt.  
  
  Q. What do you do now, go back in and watch football?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I'm going to go home for a while. I've got kids at home. I'm going to go see the kids, and I don't live too far away, so I can make it back for whatever they need me to make it back for.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT