BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 10, 2010
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How were you able to gut it out?  
 MATT KUCHAR: That is a good question, I'm not sure. It's probably the worst feeling I've had out here. It was a struggle, but I learned young you never quit. Fortunately I had a few putts go in and made a respectable round out of it.   
  
  Q. I know you were hurting out there. Can you describe -- it was a pretty wild day for you.   
 MATT KUCHAR: It was definitely a wild day. I'm glad to be here. I felt terrible all day. I am very excited to get home and get in bed. Nice to bring it back. I made a few putts, made a few birdies, and tried to give as much self-talk as I could give out there to myself, hang in there, grind it out, kind of meander up to the ball and see if I could flip a switch for about four seconds and go back to being a zombie out there.  
  
  Q. Just comment on your health right now and your round today.   
 MATT KUCHAR: I'm not feeling well, but I was able to bounce back from a shaky start and post a reasonable score. It was a good feeling out there, as bad as I felt. To post 1-over par, I was real happy, and I'm really excited about getting home and into bed.  
  
  Q. What were you thinking out there?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I just kept talking to myself, hang in there, hang in there, gut it out, and I learned at a young age never to give up. You never know when things can turn around for you in the game of golf. Fortunately I got a few breaks to go my way and made a pretty reasonable round out of it.  
  
  Q. Of all your birdies which was the best one?   
 MATT KUCHAR: Probably the putt on 12. I hit a great iron shot on the par-3, made a 25-footer for birdie, and that kind of made me feel a little better again, seeing the putt go in. I knew that some good things would happen if I could just kind of hang in there the best I could.  
  
  Q. What's the official diagnosis?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I saw a doctor, and pretty much they didn't have much to say whether it's a viral or bacterial. They said by the time you run tests and get the tests back, you'll be home. There's no use in doing that.  
  
  Q. They said you were sick?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I'm sick, yeah, that's what he said. He prescribed some antibiotics, and hopefully if it's bacterial the antibiotics will kick in.  
  
  Q. How did you ration your energy?   
 MATT KUCHAR: I don't know, I was as weak as could be, and I tried for the four or five seconds over the ball to flip the switch on and really give it what I had and go back to walking around without a whole lot of energy.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT