PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2010
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Good playing today.   
 MATT KUCHAR: Thank you.  
  
  Q. What was the relative advantage, if any, of the way your draw worked out with the conditions?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I think we'll just wait and see what happens with this afternoon. They could get lucky if the storm blows through and then they could get some clear skies and some calm conditions. But sitting around right now, it's nice to be done.   
 This morning wasn't pleasant, it wasn't pleasant to wake up at 4:00 this morning after getting back to the hotel at 9:00 last night. So I wasn't enjoying that part of it. But right now I'm glad that I've played the way that I did.  
  
  Q. There were many who might have expected that you would be here in this position years earlier than right now. Given your accomplishments as an amateur champ, etcetera. How does it feel to be up here and the journey to get here?  
 MATT KUCHAR: It feels good. That's what it's been, it's been a journey and there's not many people that ever get a chance to be up here so I'm excited to have the opportunity to do some great over the weekend. It's been fun. I've had a great career and starting with the U.S. Amateur in '97 and then I really did a lot of fun things. And it continues to get better now. So I'm enjoying my time out here and looking forward to a chance to do some big over the weekend.  
  
  Q. Did the 4:30 wake-up call actually put you in a bad mood? Is that possible?  
 MATT KUCHAR: No, I just don't feel very good. I feel hungry, I feel sick, I just don't feel good when I get five hours sleep. My body needs more. So it takes me awhile to kind of that clicking again.  
  
  Q. What happened to your toe?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I'm not sure if I broke it. I guess with a toe it doesn't really matter if you break it, you sprain it, you crush it, whatever you do, I guess there's nothing you can really do. So it was either Monday or Tuesday morning at the Greenbrier our son woke up a little early and I went to grab him out of the crib and I left the lights off and then thought I would just bring him back to bed and hope he would fall asleep and after I picked him up from the crib and as I turned, I kicked a leg on a piece of furniture. It swelled up and turned black and blue and they said it was broke and they said just tape it to another toe and keep going. And it didn't bother me to play golf. Walking hurt a little bit, but as far as hitting golf balls it really didn't affect me.  
  
  Q. Which toe?  
 MATT KUCHAR: That last one on the left side. The ring toe.   
  
  Q. If the wind doesn't blow too much the course can be had. You seemed to manage that pretty well. Conditions were okay this morning?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I thought it played harder today for sure. I thought I played every bit as good today as yesterday maybe even better. I thought conditions were difficult, the guys that shot 6-under today played some awful good golf.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MATT KUCHAR: Right. Right. In the hazard. That was a funny tee. One that I thought left place was the safe place to go. And the yardage book there. It just shows the left fairway all kicks down to the right and it looked like where the pin was and how the green was set up I thought the left side was going to be better than missing it right.  
 I just never thought I would hit it left of that side and it kicked down and goes into the hazard, which I was unaware of and I didn't think I hit that bad of a drive so I was pleased to escape with a bogey there.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MATT KUCHAR: I know. If he didn't say, I won't say. But we had a good couple matches. I was on good form, I was making a lot of putts and playing some good golf. And I was awfully happy to see him creeping up the leaderboard today. That was great to see and I hope that we're paired together tomorrow. I think that will be a lot of fun.  
  
  Q. How much confidence are you playing with right now?  
 MATT KUCHAR: It's been a good year. I'm particularly pleased that I put myself in this situation last week. I think the fact that I was that I had a chance last week, was right there in the second to last group, I think that it will help this week, just it seems like times I've played well in the past are when I've had a number of close chances and jumped right through and gotten back in the winners circle again. So I'm pleased that I put myself in a position to win last week and hopefully will build on that for this week.  
  
  Q. As a young player you had to deal with sort of the weight of expectations. Can you relate at all to Sergio's decision to sort of walk away from the game for a few months?  
 MATT KUCHAR: The game makes you do crazy things. And whether it's expectations or not, it's the game of golf. I think that there wouldn't be a single player out here that hasn't considered taking two months off, taking more time than that off. I think that the game just makes you do crazy things and a lot of times that's what you need. I think you see guys like Tiger Woods figure out how to pace themselves pretty well. Phil Mickelson. It's one of those things you see them take a great bit of time off in the offseason and they don't touch a club. I think it's a healthy thing to do and I think that your body and your mind need a break sometimes.   
  
  Q. You put yourself in position last week ended up with a 73 on the final day?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I didn't really have it on Sunday. And I felt like I did pretty well. Just to shoot 73. So I was pleased the fact that I stayed with it and didn't give up. You have some guy that is have it go the wrong way and kind of give up. So I was please that had I hung in there and I know that this weekend it will get tough again and I'm not going to be hitting it perfectly all weekend, so I'm going to have to do some grinding and I was pleased that I did some grinding last week, last Sunday, and hopefully some of that will continue, some of that continued hard work will continue to pay off this weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT