WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2010
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 5-under par 67, bogey-free, what were the conditions like out there?
 MATT KUCHAR: Hard to believe in these conditions. If you had told me prior to the round, would you take even par and just go sit in the clubhouse, I would have said for sure. I got hot out of the chute, and turned in 5-under. I was 5-under through 8 today. Disappointing; let a few opportunities slip on the back side but these conditions are tough. To play bogey-free is a pretty outstanding round of golf.

 Q. A couple birdie opportunities on the back nine; was it the wind or what was it a combination of? Looked like you were close to making some putts but did not quite drop?
 MATT KUCHAR: I probably just was not quite aggressive enough. Reading these greens, you've got so much slope to account for and then you have to account for wind and it's hard to say, what do I account more for. 
 It's difficult reading these greens with the wind, because wind plays such a big factor. When it's blowing, it's blowing a good 25 at the moment. You have to play a lot for wind.

 Q. I thought it was important, middle of your round, you got it up-and-down on 13, and 14, to keep that round going, how important is that in conditions like this?
 MATT KUCHAR: 13 and 14 were playing very difficult. I hit a hybrid 20 yards short of 13, and 14, I hit a 4-iron in. So they are tough holes, and to save par, I put myself -- I was looking on 13 where my best play to get up-and-down was, and I said, I'm better short than being long here, I'll go ahead and take the lesser of the clubs. It was a lot too less. 
 But it was the place to be getting up-and-down from, so that was a nice save. And 14, missed the green just to the right with a 4-iron, which was a pretty decent shot but made a good up-and-down. Those are the things that really make you feel good after the round, when you come in and sign a card for 5-under as opposed to 3-under, is a lot happier times. 

 Q. You seem really comfortable out on the golf course these days. How important was that win last fall?
 MATT KUCHAR: That was great. Kind of got me back on track. I was playing some good golf but there's nothing like winning a golf tournament out here. When you win on the PGA TOUR, you just feel like you're one of the best players in the world. Having that sort of feel, it can only help. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT