TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2009
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What, you don't want to come up to our beautiful media center?
 MATT KUCHAR: It's amazing the amount of tents they put up here. What they did the infrastructure, looking around the amount of grandstands, they really went over the top here. They made it a great spot, great venue. 
 Luckily we had two good weekend days of weather, and now it looks like we get to try one more day.

 Q. When you think about your 18 during the round, you had that third shot coming up and you put it in the bunker. 
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah. Yeah.

 Q. You had come all the way up to take a look. 
 MATT KUCHAR: I was pretty pleased with the number I got. I wanted to have not a full wedge. It's just scary the amount of spin you can put on the ball, so I wanted to have kind of a three-quarter wedge and that was right about what I got, but hitting three-quarter wedges or half wedges off wet lies, it's easy to chunk the ball, and unfortunately that's what I did, but to get up-and-down, I was really happy to have held onto it. I mean chunking up wedge shots, that's a thing nobody likes to do and it's something you can beat yourself up about it, and I was able to kind of stay composed and go ahead and get that ball up-and-down and force a playoff. 

 Q. How did you do that? How did you stay composed when you walked down in that bunker?
 MATT KUCHAR: I'm pretty good about that. I was looking forward to testing myself. That's the way I look at it, I look at it, all right, here's another test, see if I can get up-and-down. 
 Actually I was really trying to make it. I knew the bunker shot wasn't that difficult. I had a nice uphill lie. All I had to do was kind of hit it halfway to the hole and let it start trickling, and boy, it came close.

 Q. What was your yardage there?
 MATT KUCHAR: 65 yards.

 Q. Were you trying to hit it past the pin and spin it back?
 MATT KUCHAR: No, no.

 Q. You were trying to hit it short and putt it real easy?
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah. From 65 yards, I can't spin it enough from 65 yards.

 Q. When you come off 18 there and your son wants to see you, and you have all those thoughts of, okay, now I'm really ready to approach a playoff, do you jump back in or do you forget that because you have your son in your arms?
 MATT KUCHAR: He was in my arms through all the involvement, and I still had to sign my scorecard.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT