TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2009
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Matt, those mittens, it looked like you were playing hockey. 
 MATT KUCHAR: I've got to say thanks to the folks at Ping. I didn't expect to need them and borrowed some from the guys at Ping, and they came in awfully handy today.

 Q. You went up to that last putt outside of 30 feet like a guy who was 19-over par and just wanted to get the round over. You just stepped up and hit it and banged it right in the back of the cup. 
 MATT KUCHAR: That's the plan, isn't it? Why would I do anything different? I had a pretty good line on it, and I said, all right, let's hit it, and it went right in.

 Q. I watched you over on 8. Maybe you were able to take advantage today of the lift, clean and place rules all the way through because you were in kind of deep stuff but you had to go looking for the ball a little bit, and yet you were able to give yourself an opportunity and took advantage of it. 
 MATT KUCHAR: The lie wasn't that bad to start with. There were a lot of those opportunities out there. I think everybody was certainly able to take advantage of getting some better lies if you missed the fairway. Pretty amazing, I've never played lift, clean and place in the rough before. It's a first for me. I went with the attitude, well, we'll enjoy it. This is one of the worst conditions I can remember playing in in a long time, but I figured go out and have some fun, and I played some good golf today.

 Q. I wanted to ask you the question, bad conditions, and yet the opportunities that were there, and with the greens and the course in such good shape, is 5-under a spectacularly good score or a pretty good score, or how do you feel about it?
 MATT KUCHAR: Conditions were rotten this morning. It was no fun to be out there. I was thinking just hanging around par. To get five birdies today, to get 5-under par, I'm awfully happy with it. I'm looking at the leaderboard, I think it's in pretty good shape, but when I started this morning I was thinking let's try to stay around par.

 Q. You've got your card next year; everything is all good with that. You've got some goals, though, that you're still trying to accomplish this year. 
 MATT KUCHAR: I enjoy playing golf. I like being out here. These are fun events. Almost every one of these in the fall I'm planning on playing. I'm not ready to have three months off. I enjoy playing the game of golf, and these are fun events and I enjoy being a part of them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT