THE SHARK SHOOTOUT
December 12, 2009
Brad Faxon
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Brad Faxon and Matt Kuchar, what in the world got into you guys? You started slow but turned it around quickly.   
 MATT KUCHAR: Faxon had it going. I wasn't very sharp early, and Faxon was making some putts. We got off to another hard start.   
 Yesterday, we started double bogey, double bogey. Today the first hole is a par-5, and you're expecting great things with this format. Again, we bogeyed first hole.  
 Faxon righted the ship, as he normally does.  
  
  Q. Well, the rumor is that Brad is actually going to go to a belly putter; is that true?   
 BRAD FAXON: Well, yeah, maybe. I doubt it. The greens are so nice here. I'll tell you what, man, they roll perfectly. He made a couple great birdies coming in, so it was fun.   
  
  Q. 62 from you guys today. Obviously a very serious issue, and you're on the policy board of the PGA Tour. We're not talking about grooves, we're talking about Tiger saying he's gonna take an indefinite leave of absence. How do you think that is gonna impact the Tour?  
 BRAD FAXON: You know, I saw the statement like everybody else. That's about as much as I know. I know very little about what's really happened and what's going to happen.   
 Indefinite leave of absence, I think we're all hoping Tiger comes back and he fixes everything he needs to fix, because we need him out here. He's such a dynamic personality on the golf course, and I know you want to have him out on the Tour as soon as we can get him out here.  
  
  Q. Matt, what are people talking about in the locker room?  
 MATT KUCHAR: The question I get asked mostly is, Did you have any idea? The answer is no. I had no idea. It's just a surprise to us all.   
 You know, we all try to figure out how we would handle his situation, and I don't think there's a right answer. It's been one of those things that fun to talk about. We're all speculating and it captivated the nation's attention.   
 But like Brad said, he's the best thing that happened to this Tour, and we would like to see this over with and him back out playing good golf.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT