JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 19, 2008
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We've got Matt Kuchar, our runner-up, here in the media center at 5-under par, 67. Today Matt finished one back. Just couldn't get anything on those last four holes, and that was probably the difference today.
 MATT KUCHAR: It started playing hard on the last couple holes. The wind really started picking up. 15 and 16 are definitely birdie holes that I missed opportunities on. 
 But into the wind with some tough pins, 15, I'm just not quite long enough to get quite all the way there into the wind. 
 16 had a layup. Hit 4 wedge unfortunately. It was certainly an opportunity from 110 yards. Other than that, it was awfully good play. I missed one short putt on the first hole. Missed about a six-footer for birdie. Other than that, I played some pretty solid golf.
 JOHN BUSH: All right. Questions. 

 Q. I think everybody was expecting a real cavalry charge today the finish today. Didn't really happen. You and Marc kind of did your own thing today. Were you a little surprised given how bunched up things were?
 MATT KUCHAR: I'm not much of a leaderboard watcher, so I wasn't paying attention and I wasn't really up-to-date on how the tournament stood. 
 I certainly thought it was going to take probably about what Tuna ended up today. What, 25-under? That's kind of what I figured it would end up being. 
 I look back and think, Gosh, if I just had that drive back on 18 yesterday. Kind of the one that got away from me and cost me two shots. 
 But the hardest things about golf is looking back at the ones that could've, would've.
 JOHN BUSH: The silver lining is you moved up to 67the on the Money List. That does a lot for you here right near the end of the season obviously.
 MATT KUCHAR: Yeah. I might have to keep playing. I'm just planning on playing Ginn right now, but getting inside that top 70 is big deal, so I may have to extend it through Disney if it's looking like I'm on that bubble. 

 Q. What do you say about the play of Marc throughout the whole week? It's very tough to lead start to finish in any tournament, especially one as volatile as this.
 MATT KUCHAR: When you're playing good, I think everything else goes out the window. I think sitting on top of that leaderboard certainly is different. Teeing off playing the last group Saturday/Sunday you got more pressure.
 Certainly Marc nor I played all that terrific golf on Saturday. But to shoot 5-under today, what Marc did, was good playing.
 When you play good, kind of I think some of the pressure goes a way. I think when you're -- I always thought of to like given a speech. If you're prepared on the subject, it's not a big deal to give a speech. If you don't know the subject very well it's very nerve-wracking and difficult. 
 When you're playing good golf, I think that all goes out the window. Your past record, all that stuff goes out the window. He's been in contention. Gosh, he was right there at Jackson, Mississippi. I think really should have won Jackson. 
 It's great to see a guy bounce back and get that victory a month later. That was awesome. 
 JOHN BUSH: Anything else. Matt, that's got it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT