THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 29, 2008
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Sweet score. 
 MATT KUCHAR: What a day. It was beautiful out there. 

 Q. How tough was it?
 MATT KUCHAR: The course is tough. The greens are just fast as can be. And then some of these pins were awfully difficult. Just front pins with the green sloping as severely as they do back to front, it's -- a lot of your putts you're just scared. You feel like you're just lagging. But these conditions, it was one of those days you're glad to be alive and walking around and enjoying the day out here today. 

 Q. When that said, a lot of guys have said today that this is a tough, the toughest one guy just said, toughest they have seen in five years anyplace on TOUR, that if the fairways were just a little tighter it would be U.S. Open conditions. To go out and post like you did, does that pump up the confidence?
 MATT KUCHAR: It feels good. I think that comment being the as tough as any place in five years is a bit of an overstatement. The fairways are pretty generous. If you're hitting the ball well, there's some good numbers. Kenny Perry went out, what did he finish, 6-under? There's some more good numbers out there. 
 It's certainly a lot of trouble though. If your game's not on, if you're not hitting the ball in the right place, I had two double bogeys out there just with two bad swings I got in places where it was no fun to be in. I haven't made a lot of putts and the greens are beautiful. If you get the ball started on line they keep going and they find the bottom of the hole.

 Q. Did you find yourself trying to lag some putts that went in?
 MATT KUCHAR: No, I never had a lag that went in. I did have some putts that I don't normally make today, but they did go in. There were just a few occasions where there's some really downhill crazy putts, I was lagging them. 

 Q. Do you imagine that there was any huge difference in when you played today?
 MATT KUCHAR: No. 

 Q. Early versus late?
 MATT KUCHAR: No. I think that with these conditions, maybe morning the greens might have been a little softer, maybe not quite as quick, but we had perfect conditions in the afternoon. Generally you prefer a morning with perfect conditions, but this afternoon, the most the wind got up to was five miles an hour. There was just not much to talk about. 

 Q. Jack's goal coming in here was to make you guys get up on the tee and really think how you're going to manage your game instead of getting up there, pulling driver, letting it rip the way the rough is. The bunkers are now a hazard. Do you find yourself getting up there and thinking --
 MATT KUCHAR: I'm not long enough to do that. I get up and I hit driver. I do -- there are a couple guys I played with today, Lucas Glover and Jason Gore are long enough to have to pull a different club on occasion, but I'm not in their category and pretty much this course I can hit driver just about everywhere. 

 Q. Are you big on -- obviously guys talk about playing themselves out of a tournament in the first round, versus you can't win on day one. You got to like the position you're in here. 
 MATT KUCHAR: I don't think about it at all. I don't think that there's anything to talk about with that. It's golf. You know those old sayings, you take it one shot at a time. It doesn't really matter to me if I shot even par, 4-under, whatever. I go in tomorrow with the same game plan. 

 Q. What is the game plan tomorrow?
 MATT KUCHAR: My game plan is I start pretty conservative, see where my game is. And from there you make adjustments. If I'm playing well, maybe go at a few more pins. If I'm not in great control, I continue to stay conservative. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT