BELLSOUTH CLASSIC
March 30, 2006
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Talk us through your day if you could.
MATT KUCHAR:  Started out and I had a lot of good opportunities for birdie right out of the chute.  I had probably ten feet on 1, ten feet on 2, ten feet on 3, and then finally had a pretty easy ten footer on 4, more of a straight uphill putt.  It had some pretty good break downhill, and I made the one on 4.

I hit a really big drive on 5 and only had 95 yards to the hole, which made that hole play the easiest I've ever seen it.  I hit a 60 degree to within eight feet and made that.

No. 6, played the par 5 in regulation, on in three, went to about ten feet, made a nice downhill putt on 6.

Drove it way right on 8, had to pitch out and took a bogey there.

It was good ball striking and some good putting.  My game felt good.  A 68 was nice.

Last week I think my game was in pretty good form, and over the weekend the scores didn't show it.  I was just trying to stay positive, knowing that my game is on good form, and if I just kind of reflect on the good things instead of trying to think why did I shoot 3 over last weekend that I could come out and play some pretty good golf.

The course is in good shape.  This weather is perfect.  It's about time we've had good weather here.  The last three years the pros are saying why do we live here with this weather, so it's nice to see the blue skies out here.
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Sort of talk us through    you're full time on the Nationwide and playing this week on a sponsor exemption.
MATT KUCHAR:  I'm trying to be full time on the Tour.  I figure I'll get in    I'm hoping to get in 15 to 20 on the Tour, hoping to make a full year out here, and then trying to go in the off weeks out to the Nationwide just to stay sharp, kind of like I did last week.  I played    this is my fourth event on the Tour and I've played two Nationwides, had a couple weeks off after Honda and wanted to stay sharp and went down to Louisiana to play on the Nationwide.  I'm hoping to spend most of my time out here.
Q.  Matt, because you've already won out here, when you play on a sponsor's exemption, are you immediately thinking about winning or are you trying to make a certain    top 15, top 10?  What are your expectations having already won out here, just go right to the top more or less?
MATT KUCHAR:  Every week I hope to win, but I don't think I    I don't think    I don't have a real thought in mind as far as make the cut, shoot 2 under, win the tournament.  You know, I go out there and try to keep it real simple, just try to play the shots that I have, figure out in the morning if I'm hitting a cut or hitting a draw, depending on how good I feel, and then figure my way around the course from there.  I don't really think too much about do I need to birdie this hole to win the tournament or just that number doesn't ever creep into my mind.  I think I've realized that thinking about just trying to make a cut is not a really good way to go about things.  You want to tee up every week hoping to win, and if you don't, hopefully you perform pretty well in doing so.
Q.  You mentioned the conditions out there and how nice it is.  Gavin Coles is going low right now.  Do you see some really good scores being possible?  You said you had a lot of opportunities that you left out there?
MATT KUCHAR:  I could definitely see with the conditions.  This is what as a golfer you dream to play in.  These are just perfect conditions, slight wind, great temperature, just glad to be alive on days like this.

The course is in fantastic shape, and you can go low.  The greens aren't overly firm.  I think when you get greens really firm, it becomes tough to go really low.  You just can't throw darts out there.  I think everything you could wish for, Sugarloaf has right now.
Q.  Can you give us a sense of how often you've played out here?  Did you play out here a lot in college?  Do you still play out here a few times a year?
MATT KUCHAR:  A few times a year.  Our home was Golf Club of Georgia.  That's my home course now and that's where I find myself most of the time.  I come out here on occasion, particularly when I know I'm in the tournament, I'll come out in some off weeks or off weekends out here just to refresh myself again.  I probably play it a half dozen times a year outside of the tournament.
Q.  It does give you a comfort level, though, probably familiar with the sight lines and obviously you have a lot of people out here that know you?
MATT KUCHAR:  Yeah, I do feel comfortable out here.  I've played it I think the last four years now, and I have been here on other days getting to know the staff here.  It's nice to walk in the locker room and know John there, he's going to look after you, and the guy with the carts, starting to know these guys.  It's fun to see all the welcoming faces walking in the front door.  That always gives you a good home feeling.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT