THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 31, 2008
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. If you're going to finish, finish with flare. Tell me about your finish today?  
 MATT KUCHAR: That was awesome. I holed a sand wedge from 97 yards on the 15th hole. And then I got to 16 and I thought I made another birdie there or I thought I holed another one for a hole-in-one on 16. It was just right over the pin into the back rough and sitting ugly and I hit an incredible chip shot that kind of hung onto the line and came in the side of the hole. So that was quite a stretch to birdie 15 and eagle -- or eagle 15 and birdie 16. That was just awesome.  
  
  Q. You look like you're having fun on the golf course and I've been bragging about the little boy that's at your house. Has that kind of changed the perspective for you about golf, having a little baby running around the house?  
 MATT KUCHAR: No, the perspective hasn't changed a whole lot. It's been so much fun though. I love that little boy and this little guy, he's just always the happiest little sucker and to get him to smile is like everything in the world is okay. So it's been fun and I love life. I'm married to the girl of my dreams, I got a great little baby boy, and I get paid to play golf. Life is good.   
  
  Q. Tell me about this golf course. Did it help you with the rain delay?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I just came off a double bogey on 4 and I had to sit on that. So I don't know exactly how well I liked reminiscing about a double bogey. But I don't know. I got out there and it was still awfully windy. The course was still tough. The last couple holes it kind of eased up, the wind died down and it was kind of perfect conditions for the last two holes any way, but other than that it still played awfully difficult out there.   
  
  Q. You got to be happy with your position going into Sunday?  
 MATT KUCHAR: I'm excited being in the last couple groups on Sunday. It should be some fun.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT