WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 31, 2019
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you describe this championship match?  Only a couple of birdies for you.  I know it was a great week but also a disappointing finish.  
MATT KUCHAR: Certainly not what I'm looking for.  It's tough to maintain the high level of play the entire tournament.  You hope to do it and I feel like I've kind of built a game that I could rely on playing some good, steady golf.  But I gave too many holes away.  It's one of the things I pride myself on is not ever giving holes away.  I knew against Kisner I couldn't do it, and he just plodded along and played good, steady golf, and let me make mistakes.  And that was good playing by Kevin.   
 Q.  Two wins and now a runner-up in this World Golf Championship event.  It's been a heck of a year, though, and it's not over, Kooch.  No. 1 in FedExCup points now, also.  
MATT KUCHAR: Oh, nice, nice.  It's a big bonus.  It's certainly been a great beginning of the year.  To have two wins, to have a second place here.  It's been a really good run.  Certainly I'll be kicking myself after this one.  I'm disappointed not to play the type of golf that I feel I should play.  But, again, it's seven matches.  It's a lot of golf.  It's hard to maintain.  And I'll look back at a number of those opportunities and kind of be disappointed.  But listen, Kiz played good, steady golf and that's what you need to do.   
 Q.  You played beautifully all week and up Kevin got out in front of you and it was hard to catch up.  What was the difference in the match?  
MATT KUCHAR: We didn't have either one of our best days.  And Kevin kind of continued to just stay out of trouble, make pars and kind of let me make mistakes.  And I made too many today.  He played good, steady golf.  That's what I expected.  I needed -- I hate giving holes away.  I felt like I gave too many away today.   
 Q.  You leave Austin feeling what?  
MATT KUCHAR: Certainly I'll be kicking myself tonight.  It's tough.  You get in a tournament like this and one person leaves really happy.   
I had a great week.  To make it to Sunday, to make it to the championship match, it's an awesome run.  But only one person goes home with the trophy, and only one person goes home without a loss in knockout rounds.  I got a loss, and it's never fun taking a loss.   
 Q.  Still though you're back on top of FedExCup points standings.  Congratulations on the week.  
MATT KUCHAR: Thank you.  It's been a great start to the year and hope to keep it going.   
 Q.  Just a fantastic week for you.  What do you take out of this week as you continue to play some really great golf?  
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, it was a good week.  Losing a championship match is tough.  Any loss is tough.  Championship match you feel like you're so close and not to be able to get it.  I felt like I just gave away a handful of shots, which I pride myself on not doing.  But hats off to Kiz.  He played steady golf and just kind of wore me down.   
 Q.  Felt like you had a little bit of momentum after 9, when he missed the short one.  
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, yeah, absolutely.  I thought, man, 1-down is nothing now.  I kind of felt like I had some life again.  I wasn't playing my best golf, but 1-down I had some life, and was excited to make a move on the back.  And I thought I hit a good shot on 10 to halve that hole, and then to rinse one on 11 was bad.  But then I played two of my best shots into 12, and he was able to cover my birdie up.   
So it was awfully well done.  I wanted to keep going as long as I could.  Made me work and covered me up the times I made birdies.   
 Q.  The crowd in Austin this week and your thoughts on being back here again, and what Austin presents, especially in the match play format.  
MATT KUCHAR: I love the course.  Love the event.  It's one event I look forward to every year.  Great crowds.  Nice that the sun came out for the back nine today.  Felt awfully good.  It's an event I look forward to every year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT