U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 1998
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MATT KUCHAR:  This is a pretty impressive setup.

MATT KUCHAR:  All right.

MATT KUCHAR:  I am just having a great time.  I am taking it one hole at a time, and I am 1-under, pretty close to contention.

MATT KUCHAR:  A couple.  Started with a birdie on 7.  7 was playing a little bit easier today than it was yesterday.  Wind was kind of into us yesterday.  Today was somewhat nonexistent.  I hit a driver trying to go for the green in 1; pretty close to the green; just short of the bunker; hit a great chip to about three feet.  It was just an easy birdie.  8, hit 8-iron; got up to the back level about eight feet away from the hole.  Had a downhill slider which just touched it; dropped in the hole.  That was a nice birdie to follow-up the birdie on 7.  Then 9, missed the fairway left.  You miss the fairway, it leads to a bogey, and so it happened.  Then made birdie on 12, hit 8-iron to about 20 feet, made a fairly straight 20-footer.  14, was disastrous.  I was debating between hitting a 7-iron and 6-iron.  Hit the full 7.  It was the wrong club; came up short in the bunker, one which is a fairly easy bunker shot.  I was a little uncomfortable; got a little too cute, left it in the rough.  Just tough up-and-down, getting out of this rough.  So I made a made double-bogey.  But again, followed it up on 15, made birdie there; looked like the wheels were coming off a second when I missed the green on 15; and then the chip went in, and all of a sudden all the momentum came right back.  And just parred-out, made a good up-and-down on 16 for par, then 17 is always a par, is almost like birdie there.  And so played pretty solid once I chipped in on 15.


Q.  How long a chip?

MATT KUCHAR:  Gosh, ten yards.

MATT KUCHAR:  Putt was about ten feet.

MATT KUCHAR:  Both.  Surprised and excited.

MATT KUCHAR:  I don't know if you ever get used to it.  The feeling that you get playing golf, I think, is different than anything.  The nervousness, the-- just that feeling of being in contention, and especially here at a major championship.  I guess a feeling that I don't know if you will ever get used to.  It is exciting.  It is exciting when you get that twinge in your stomach.  That is really what golf is all about.


Q.  Don't you know this is a US Open and fun is not allowed?

MATT KUCHAR:  It is fun when you are in the fairway and on the green.  In the rough it is definitely no fun.  But it is a lot of a grind, much more of a grind than Augusta was.  You have to -- you have to stay focused. You have to concentrate just every shot, every hole.  If you let down an inch, this course will grab you.


Q.  The question is obvious.  Are you going to turn pro?  Does this money kind of look good?  Do you see yourself up there?  Big time stuff.  What do you think?

MATT KUCHAR:  Money looks real good.  But, turning pro, I don't know when it will happen.  I haven't talked to anybody about it.  I have just gone about my own business, gone to school, played golf when it was time to play golf, and I don't know when it will happen.  I am really enjoying school.  I had a great year this year at Georgia Tech.  It was a lot of fun.  We have a great team, a great coach.  I don't know if money can persuade me to leave or not.  I am not sure what will happen.


Q.  What do you think you still need to do-- to work on before you turn pro?

MATT KUCHAR:  There is the experience factor.  I guess we will see how well I handle the final two days here. I think it is just experience see how well I can stack up against these guys.


Q.  What you are doing here?  Do you feel you are accomplishing even more than you did at Augusta considering how difficult the course is?

MATT KUCHAR:  I was thrilled with Augusta.  Augusta, you really have to be on top of your game with your approach shots especially.  Being on the right level, below the hole around Augusta, really required precise iron shots.  But here you have to be precise with the driver, with the 3-wood, with the 3-iron, with all the irons.  It is quite a test of golf and to be in the position I am in now after two days, is fantastic.  But I am only halfway there. There is still more days of golf left.  We will see what happens in the next two days.


Q.  Nice round.  When I spoke to you over here -- when I spoke to you in Atlanta, you and your father indicated that you would finish school because you wanted to be a role-model.  Are you suggesting now that the door is open, that you might turn professional before your fours years are up at Georgia Tech?  Is that a possibility now?

MATT KUCHAR:  I doubt myself turning professional before school end.  But, I really don't know.  I really haven't thought about it.  Dad or I haven't even talked about it.  It is all up in the air.  I am just kind of rolling with everything right now.


Q.  I know one goal is just getting to the weekend here, it is such a tough tournament.  At what point now do you allow yourself to start winning this thing?

MATT KUCHAR:  I don't know if you -- it is good to ever think about start winning it.  I remember in the junior tournaments, I was thinking about:  What am I going to say in my acceptance speech.  I would be playing in the last round the last day, the last group, and I think about:  All right, what I am going to stay when I get the trophy?  I never won a single junior event (laughter).  So I have kind of learned to not think about that, to just take it one shot at a time and just add it up when you get in and see what happens.


Q.  Given your age and inexperience in Majors, how much of an advantage is it to have your dad caddying for you?

MATT KUCHAR:  It is great for me.  I don't know if he would be good for other guys.  I don't know if it would be an advantage for another guy to have my dad.  But it has really been good for me.  He keeps me calm.  Keeps me relaxed and having him on the bag, seeing him get excited, is just a lot of fun for both of us, a lot of fun for me to watch him.


Q.  I think I heard your father say you just finished with finals last week.  What was your preparation coming into this tournament?  Do you find your success surprising given the fact that you can't -- you don't have the time to prepare like the rest of the field?

MATT KUCHAR:  Yeah, I do.  It is very hard playing in these events as a college student.  Again, playing at The Masters, I had just finished with class the week before and coming here I just finished finals and so, I really have very little time to prepare for a tournament, even college events, you just -- you go to a college event, you come home; you work on school for the next week or two and then go to the  next college event.  So you really just go with what you got.  You can't have a lot of time to prepare and it is hard.  I was able to get out of exams a little bit early, went home and had a couple days practice.  But I came here not feeling as confident as I would have liked to.


Q.  Do you think your dad can be a distraction to the other golfers on the course?

MATT KUCHAR:  No, I think Dad does a good job, very good golf etiquette.  He gets excited after I make a putt or hit a shot.  Again, the other players have time to calm down themselves and let the crowd subside.  So I think definitely not a distraction.

MATT KUCHAR:  Dad is about a 6 handicap.


Q.  Had you declared a major yet and what exams -- what courses did you take the final exams in?

MATT KUCHAR:  Business management.  I had a marketing exam.  I had a Spanish exam.  I had a textiles exam.  And did, uh-oh - I don't -- English exam.


Q.  You make the double-bogey and then you miss the green on the par 3.  What is your mindset as you are walking up and talking about the wheels coming off and also when you got there, we couldn't see on the other side, what was the lie like where you were, heavy rough light rough?

MATT KUCHAR:  Heavy rough, into the grain a little bit.  It wasn't a very good lie.  I knew I had to accelerate because it was an uphill lie.  I knew I really had to hit it pretty hard just to get it to the hole.  Having that uphill lie, knowing that I had to get through it, I ended up getting through it nicely and trickling to the hole, that was a great momentum saver.  I thought the wheels were going to come off.  I missed a couple of greens.  Every time you miss a green it is definitely difficult to make par, to walk away with a birdie, stealing 2.


Q.  I noticed your teammate Bryce Molder won the Jack Nicklaus College Player-of-the-Year award.  How do you and Bryce make it head-to-head?

MATT KUCHAR:  Coach very rarely puts us head-to-head in a qualifier or anything like that.  But we are very even. He is a terrific player, I guess the best player in college golf.  And it is great to have him on my team.  We compete a lot.  Just matching scores and in tournaments in qualifying, when we do get the chance to play together, it is a great time.  We are playing over at the Palmer Cup this year. Hopefully we will be partners and really have a good time cleaning up.


Q.  What have you learned from playing with major champions like Els and Leonard? 

MATT KUCHAR:  It is learning course management.  It is seeing them hit irons off tees.  It is seeing when Ernie pulls out a 3-wood; when Justin pulls out driver.  What they do around the greens.  Things of that nature, really is what I have learned taken from their games.


Q.  A lot of people might have been surprised to see you pull out that wood with that rough shot on No. 9, I think. What was the plan there?

MATT KUCHAR:  My 4-wood really cuts through the rough well and at the U.S. Amateur worked tremendously.  It was the deepest rough I had seen to that point.  This is a lot deeper, a lot thicker.  And, I was thinking the lie was just decent enough where maybe I could slap it out 150 yards and it could run up to the green.  But, the rough is so nasty, it turned it and went dead right.


Q.  I wanted to ask, The Masters experience, does it make this any easier?  Did you learn anything from that that you are able to apply to this week?

MATT KUCHAR:  Absolutely.  Bringing your A-game -- you have to bring your A-game.  You have to be so precise with iron shots around Augusta and here is the same way, you really have to be precise in ball-striking.  But then handling the things outside of golf.  I learned a lot dealing with the media, dealing with autograph-seekers and fans.  I learned a lot at Augusta about a game outside of golf itself.


Q.  How did your success at Augusta change or not change your expectations coming into this tournament?

MATT KUCHAR:  It did nothing.  I had no expectations going into Augusta, really had no expectations going in here.  I just wanted to play my best and just see what happened.


Q.  Did you get any sense that Justin was upset with what your dad was doing?  He indicated that pretty strongly afterwards; didn't really answer the question but he left it, no doubt, that he was kind of upset about it.

MATT KUCHAR:  No, not really.  There was one instance where he had Dad move back, I think.  Other than that, it just looked like normal nature of play.


Q.  I wondered what it is like now to be in public and to be recognized in public compared to what your life might have been a year ago.

MATT KUCHAR:  It is a lot of fun being recognized in public.  Not too many people pick me out, but when it does happen, it is flattering.  And, really enjoy that a lot.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT