WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 31, 2019
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That was a heck of a match.  Neither one of you were up by 2 at any time during the match.  What was the ultimate difference?  
MATT KUCHAR: Well, I feel that this was NCAA Tournament survive and advance.  It was not great golf.  Certainly the last couple of holes for me to hit the shot in 16, birdie 17 finally felt like I needed to make a move, I've got to do something.  At first it was just trying to plod along, didn't have my best stuff, and it was a case of survive and advance.   
 Q.  You mentioned the NCAA Tournament, it's Georgia Tech versus Georgia in the Finals.  You're taking on Kevin Kisner.  What do you expect from him as an opponent?  
MATT KUCHAR: God, I hate them dogs.  He's a fantastic player.  We've got a bunch of great players on Tour.  He's certainly one of them.  Doing great around this place.  Back-to-back championship matches for him is awfully impressive.  I don't expect to see any bogeys.  I expect to see a lot of putts made.  It's going to be a tough match.   
 Q.  Tough match out there today.  Kind of going back and forth.  Was it harder with the conditions or the opponent?  Both?  Give us your thoughts.  
MATT KUCHAR: I think the scenario, the opponent, the conditions, it's all part of match play.  It was not easy conditions.  I mean, I'm layered up, got the snow hat on.  It was some challenging conditions, and then you kind of know the gravity of wanting to make the finals, having a chance to win match play.  It's an important match, and I didn't feel like either one of us had our best stuff this morning.  But it was just who could survive.  Like the NCAA Tournament, who could survive and advance.   
 Q.  That's exactly right.  And how much have the two wins earlier this year helped out with knowing that you may not have had your best, but kind of helps you in moments like today where it is tough out there?  
MATT KUCHAR: Sure.  I think I understand the game of golf pretty well.  When you're not on form, it's trying to keep it in play, trying to make sure you're not hurting yourself with putting it in places where you just can't score from.   
This course in particular, lots of places -- you've got to find a fairway first.  But then around the greens there's lots of places where you need to leave yourself a little margin in some places where you can play from.   
 Q.  Georgia versus Georgia Tech in the final against Kiz, how do you stack up against his game you think?  
MATT KUCHAR: Boy, awesome for him to make back-to-back final matches.  His game is well suited for this place.  I expect him to drive it well, putt it well.  That's an awfully good combination.  So I've got my work cut out for me.   
 Q.  Congratulations on the win.  A match that you never led by more than 1-up.  That was hard fought, wasn't it?  
MATT KUCHAR: It sure was.  It sure was.  I don't think either Lucas or I had our best stuff this morning.  But the conditions were hard.  The situation, it's a big deal trying to make the championship match.   
So I think conditions.  I think the whole scenario.  And then an opponent that played good, steady golf.  It was a good match.  And it was kind of back and forth.  There weren't a whole lot of halved holes it didn't feel like out there.   
 Q.  It's interesting, because you would think his length might be an advantage, especially on the par 5s, but yet you birdied 6, 12 and 15 to go back up 1-up, so you won those par 5s?  
MATT KUCHAR: I played those fairly well this week.  It's been a good stretch for me.  Certainly you would think with his length he had an advantage.  But it's a tricky course, you've just got to keep executing shot after shot.  Even if you find the fairway, the second shot is not going to be easy.  I was able to pull off some good shots and make a few birdies there, which were critical, particularly 16.  To hit that shot in there was my best shot of the week so far.   
 Q.  Now you go against the Kiz, Kevin Kisner, Georgia Bulldog, you're a Georgia Tech Yellow Jacket.  That's kind of a neat rivalry.  
MATT KUCHAR: I don't think either of our teams were any good in basketball this year, but fortunately we have some good golfers.   
He's playing good golf.  For him to make back-to-back championship matches, I know this course suits him really well.  He's a good driver of the ball, good putter of the ball.  I expect it will be a tough match.   
 Q.  Nobody in their 40s has ever won the Dell Technologies Match Play.  You're representing the old guys.  
MATT KUCHAR: I'd like to change that, for sure, I'd like to switch that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT