THE 147TH OPEN
July 20, 2018
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Matt, obviously, a terrific back nine today to finish things off.
MATT KUCHAR: I got off to an amazing start hitting the ball.  I had chances the first five holes, then found myself greenside bunker on 6, my fourth shot, and ended up making a miraculous shot, and it went in the hole.  Felt like, all right, finally one went in, and gave it right back with a bogey on the next.
But I felt like I was playing great golf and then turn at even par thinking the front side is where you kind of can take advantage, and I wasn't able to.  Thinking I need to keep playing good golf, maybe get the one on 14 and maybe one more.  To find two more was a real bonus.
Q. You're in exactly the same position you were in last year.  The lead is 6, you're 4 under.  That entire experience, do you think you'll use that this weekend?
MATT KUCHAR: I don't know exactly how to use it.  I know that I'm playing well at the moment.  But that's about all I can control.  So I'm certainly pleased with the state of my game.  I'm pleased to find myself back in contention.  That last year was awfully close.  I had a taste of it.  I'd certainly like on Sunday to be right back in that same position.
Q. Not that you should be surprised by it, but, I mean, you must feel like a little deja vu in some sense, that you're figuring out Open golf and links.
MATT KUCHAR: My track record wasn't great early.  It's certainly gotten a whole lot better.  I do enjoy it and always have.  Awfully nice to be making cuts and more than making cuts, being in contention, having chances to win.  So much history, and such a big part of the game coming to the British Open.  To do well, it's a thrill.
I certainly -- I wasn't real excited to get the silver server last year, but it's something I'm proud of, now that a year's gone by, to have it in the trophy case.
I played great golf.  I got beat by a great champion.  To have a small part of that history is nice.
Q. What do you chalk up the improved play in this championship to?
MATT KUCHAR: I certainly feel like I'm a better golfer than I was 10 years ago, 15 years ago.
Q. Up here?
MATT KUCHAR: Physically.  Certainly physically.
Q. How did today compare to yesterday?  As far as hitting it and just execution.
MATT KUCHAR: I think the score's got to be so much better this afternoon than any other time.  This afternoon was perfect conditions to be playing.  It was as easy, I think, as the course has been.  Just it's more receptive.  You don't have to be scared of the ball running out, where you think you hit a good shot and then find a pot bunker.  I would think the guys that played this afternoon probably had the better half of the draw.
Q. How far were the putts coming in, those last couple that you made for birdie?
MATT KUCHAR: That would have been 13, might have been 18 feet, two-putt on 14.  And then a 30-footer on the last.
Q. And then you said you holed out on 6?
MATT KUCHAR: Holed a bunker shot on 6.
Q. How far?
MATT KUCHAR: It wasn't far.  It was ten yards.  It was a really tricky one.  I was scared of the shot going into it.  It had a big, big knob, and I just like hit it about as clean and as perfect of a bunker shot as I could hit.
Q. Must have been perfect.  It went in.
MATT KUCHAR: It was that.
Q. Well done.  Must feel pretty good.
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, I'm excited.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT