THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 28, 2017
Dustin Johnson
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was the key for you out there today?
MATT KUCHAR: I don't think we led until 17.  It was a heck of a battle.  It was a lot of good shots played on both sides.  For the conditions today, the difficulty of making birdies in the alternate-shot format, it was a great battle and we're certainly happy to come away with a victory.
Q. How tough did the wind make it out there?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: It was really difficult.  The first two holes, they made two birdies.  We had two really good looks on the first two holes, and hit good putts.  They just didn't go in.  Hit the lips.  I think putting was difficult today with the wind.  The wind was moving the balls, and you know, it just made them really tough.  I thought we played really, really solid.  Never really got out of position.  Didn't make any bogeys.  We just, you know, kept the ball in play.  Gave ourselves a lot of looks and you know, we played really solid.
Q. Earlier today, Steve Stricker told me that the big challenge today was that you didn't have a chance to practice in this wind, but perhaps unforeseen was how much of a difference putting in the wind made today.
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, the greens, they got a little bit faster, especially with the wind drying them out.  They got really quick.  It's windy enough today where you had to play the wind on putts, whether it was into the wind, downwind, left-to-right; you had to play that in your putts, and it made it really tough to make putts I thought.
Q. The whole idea of playing this course for a few days, you guys have played here before but playing this course for a few days, and then all of a sudden, you know, the fan turns on.  How much more difficult were these conditions today than what you had been used to?
MATT KUCHAR: These are really hard conditions.  Just found out, we were just discussing that we were bogey-free today, which is amazing.  In alternate-shot, in these conditions, not to make a bogey and for us to just win 1-up, that's a heck of a battle that we had with those guys.  They played some really good golf and I have a heck of a partner to ride.  It was a nice day and nice to come out with a victory.
Q. You made the turn tied, but you were the only guys to win holes on the back nine.  Why were you able it pull it out?
MATT KUCHAR: We had a heck of a battle.  It was a great, great match.  We didn't get up until the 17th hole.  It was just a really good fight.  Dustin and I didn't make a bogey today; in these conditions, in alternate-shot, you would think we would look awfully strong to win pretty easily with the way we played.  But it was just a great match.
Q. The conditions in your practice rounds are pretty flat and still out here, although warm.  How would you describe these conditions and how difficult it was?
DUSTIN JOHNSON: The conditions were really tough.  It was really windy.  So definitely a lot different than what we practice in but you know, most of us have played here before.
These conditions, most of the time, you wouldn't even go out and practice in them because it's blowing out here, really, really strong.  You know, but I felt like me and Matt played really well today.  They played really good.  Just luckily enough, we came out on top.
Q. With your victory, the Americans will win the day's play and you'll have the lead heading into tomorrow.  What do you expect from the Internationals in a different format tomorrow?
MATT KUCHAR: We are going to go out and cheer on the guys behind us.  See if we can't pull out a couple more matches.  You want to win every session but you don't want to lose any matches at all.  We are going to try to pull along the guys behind us.  They are certainly going to come out hungry tomorrow, as are we.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT