THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 27, 2017
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Start us off, initial thoughts on your playing partner across the way?
MATT KUCHAR: Dustin and I have had some great success in the past.  Always look forward to playing with him.  We get on well on and off the course.  We've become good buddies, and surely getting to partner with the No. 1 player in the world is a great partner to have.
Q. You've become one of the veterans on this team, your fourth Presidents Cup.  What's it like having six rookies who have never been in this position before and being able to coach them?
MATT KUCHAR: They are a bunch of fun guys on the team.  Rookies, there's not many guys that you consider rookies on the team.  They are just team rookies.  They have been around the TOUR a long time and it's the first one they have qualified for.  I think most of us know the first-time Cuppers pretty well and are excited to have them on board.
Q. Apparently Charley's got some table tennis skills.
MATT KUCHAR: It's funny, I have not seen Hoffman play.  He's not played.  He's been sitting on the sideline a little bit.
Q. Do you know much about him?
MATT KUCHAR: Charley?
Q. Apparently like a great team guy in high school.  That sort of character.
MATT KUCHAR: He's certainly been fun to have in the team room.  We have a bunch of guys that are very entertaining.  Kevin Kisner, Daniel Berger, both hugely entertaining.  Justin Thomas has been great to have around.
It's been a fun few days for sure.  It's been a bunch of good guys and some good laughs.
Q. You know sports, because this thing is 9-1-1, what's the mentality?
MATT KUCHAR: I was there last year in Korea when it came down to flipping a couple of those matches at the end to get us to win, just kind of by one.  I understand that competition, we're expecting it to be tight.  We're expecting it to come down to a couple matches, and a couple matches come down to a couple holes; you have to stay in it each and every shot.
Q. Your assessment of the golf course.  Do you like it?
MATT KUCHAR: It's great.  I think it's a really good setup.  It's a spectacular venue, as far as the views, the facility, and then the golf course itself.  The unique thing about a Presidents Cup is it a match play event and course setup is less important.  If you happen to think something is a bit unfair, it really doesn't matter that much in match play.  It's only you versus your opponent.  It's not you versus the rest of the field, and if you happen to make a big number, it's not that big of a deal here.
Match play, you can really have some fun with the courses.  I think they have got the ability to tweak a few tee boxes, put some pins in some tricky spots.  I think it will be a good test.
Q. How have you been doing since The Open?
MATT KUCHAR: Good.  Very good.  It's interesting how life and golf move on.  That next week in Canada, kind of put the shoes on, go out, you start even par and last week's over.
When you don't win, I think that's a helpful think.  I remember at Medinah, losing a Ryder Cup at Medinah in a difficult fashion, and kind of once I teed up again, it was nice to kind of get through The Ryder Cup hangover and move on.  And so the run post-British Open has been some good, steady off.  I feel like my game's been in good form.  May not have had as many chances to contend as I would have liked but still feel like the game is good.  You keep moving forward.
Q. As a guy who had such a positive and successful experience at the Rio games, are you happy to hear the IOC extended golf to Paris in 2024?
MATT KUCHAR: I think that's fantastic.  Paris will be great.  I know we have Ryder Cup coming up there next year.  I played that course.  Thought it was fantastic.  I certainly hope to make Tokyo.  Got one Olympics under my belt, and kind of like it is with these Cup teams, once you make one, you don't want to miss another.  I certainly want to make Tokyo, and France seems a long way for me, but I would aspire to have that as one of my goals, as well.
I think it's great for the game.  I think what happened in Rio was great for golf, and I think golf's going to continue to really be a positive sport for the Olympics.
Q. Do you think it will be a different energy, a different excitement among the players in the lead-up to qualification?
MATT KUCHAR: It's only going to become a bigger, better event, held at even a higher regard.  I see Tokyo and the years moving forward as being something everybody fights to be a part of.
Q. Do you have your medal here this week?
MATT KUCHAR: I do.  I do still have it with me, yeah.
Q. Will you show it to the guys if they need any extra motivation?
MATT KUCHAR: We have got plenty of motivation.  They are doing good, I'm sure.
Q. What will it be like on the first tee with three former Presidents?
MATT KUCHAR: I'm not sure if you say Mr. President, who is going to look.  What a thrill for us.  What a thrill for the game of golf.  It's such a great thing to have three Presidents be in attendance for this event.  I think it only makes the game look better, this event look better.  Really, really happy to have them part of this.
Q. They are all golf guys.
MATT KUCHAR: Sure, sure.  It's a great game.  Certainly one I'm proud to play, and the neat thing about the game is anybody can do it, and it opens the door to possibly play with anyone.
Q. Have you had a chance to be a tourist this week?
MATT KUCHAR: No, no, I've not done much of the walking around.  The touristy part of our day is on that boat ride.  The view is spectacular.  Viewing the skyline, going by the Statue of Liberty.  It's been an excellent bonus for us as our form of transportation.
Q. With two players from Latin America in The Presidents Cup, how do you see the growth?
MATT KUCHAR: Golf is in great shape.  I think people would be nervous with Tiger out of the game for awhile, but the game's really in fantastic shape.  The good, young players from the Jordan Spieths and Justin Thomases, Rickie Fowlers, Dustin Johnsons, the game is healthy and then it seems to be growing everywhere.  We've got more events internationally in Asia now where we've got a third event now in Korea.  Seeing what's happening throughout the Americas; seems like the game of golf is getting more and more popular.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT