THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 26, 2017
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you assess your round?
MATT KUCHAR: Good.  Doesn't get glowing reports.  But I felt like I had a couple more opportunities on the back nine with short irons in my hand.  I think it was 12, disappointed that I hit a wedge to 35 feet, and then make bogey on 14.  I look at that as a birdie hole for sure.
Other than that, it was a nice round of golf.
Q. When you glance up at the board and you see another birdie from Spieth, what goes through your mind?
MATT KUCHAR: I didn't.  I just saw him post at 12, and it's a heck of a round of golf.  Heck of three rounds of golf.  Very solid around here.
He's a great player.  You kind of expect great players to do great things, and he's clearly on some good form.
Q. When the leader has created a few strokes' distance, does that allow the rest of you to play more freely?  Can you just play more aggressively or does it not change your strategy?
MATT KUCHAR: I always feel like you do the best with however -- whatever you're presented with, and then let's take our example tomorrow; if I'm four or five, six shots back, I should be able to play more aggressively.  But if I'm not on go form, I'm going to try to save a bunch of pars.
So if you are playing well, you know, the goal is to go out and win a golf tournament.  So you're a long way back, it's clearly not protecting second or third place.  You're out there looking to win, and Jordan's created quite a gap between himself and the guys in second and chasers.  It's going to take a great round from somebody to catch him.
Q. How aggressive can you be here?  Not you, but everybody in general.
MATT KUCHAR: As aggressive as you wish to the point of stupidity.  I mean, you kind of have to pick and choose your places.  The course is tough.  I don't know what the low round of the week is -- 6-under?  Nothing record-setting.  So hard to be -- you can always be stupid-aggressive, but you've kind of got to pick your medicine and when you actually want to be somewhat aggressive or when you want to take a 20-footer.
Q. When were you last stupid-aggressive?
MATT KUCHAR: Every now and then.
Q. Maybe at 9?
MATT KUCHAR: Chide myself on some decision I make but for the most part, no, I try to be on the conservative side.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT