THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 30, 2017
Dustin Johnson
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you feed off each other?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: We play a lot of practice rounds together, and we really enjoy playing this alternate-shot together.  It's a fun format, especially on a day like today.  It's tough out there.  I thought we played really solid.  I mean, you're going to hit your partner some some bad spots but you've just got to go with it and keep on going.   
 Q.  When the day began, you were up 8-2.  How are you staying focused now?  
MATT KUCHAR: Everybody is hungry and everybody is itching to play.  They changed around the format where you have to sit more guys, and there's so many guys that are itching to play and want to go out there.  We are all chomping at the bit to go out and keep earning points for the team.   
 Q.  Victory in day one and now in day three.  Was it as easy as you made it look today?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Absolutely not.  I thought they had the course set up really difficult:  Tough pins; the wind is howling; it's cold out.  We played really, really solid.  Made some nice pars and made some good birdies, too.  I thought it played very difficult.   
 Q.  You have the perfect partnership.  Is it fun to play from where DJ hits it off the tee?  
MATT KUCHAR: I love playing with this guy.  I think anybody would do well playing with this guy.  I've been a lucky recipient a number of times.  We make a great team and it's really been a fun ride.   
 Q.  No chance you're going to get complacent?  Are you going to try and put the hammer down and keep it going?  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, this game, it can change really quickly.  You know, we've got to play, play hard in every single match and try to get as many points as we can.  I know we have a nice lead right now but the other team, they are very good, and things can turn really fast.   
 Q.  Talk about your confidence in playing with each other.  
DUSTIN JOHNSON: Yeah, we like playing together.  We like this format.  It's a lot of fun.  It's something we don't get to do a whole lot, so it makes it really interesting.  It's always interesting where your partner is going to hit you because you have no control over it.  It's a lot of fun I think.   
 Q.  Sometimes you get to hit way closer to the green than perhaps what you're used to following one of DJ's drives.  
MATT KUCHAR: Trust me, I can't get enough of that.  I love when I walk down that fairway and watch that ball roll 300-plus down there for me to have a short iron in.  It's been a great partnership.   
 Q.  Is there any type of focus problem?  What was the team mood as you came to the golf course?  
MATT KUCHAR: There was a handful of us, and certainly the rookies are well aware of what happened at Medinah.  There's no lead that's too big.  Just you keep on getting a bigger and bigger lead, and that's the goal.   
Now with the new format and changing around the points, you have to sit more guys, and you've got a number of guys chomping at the bit.  That was me yesterday:  I had to sit for a session, and chomping at the bit to get out there.  So nice to get out and get a point for the United States.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT