THE 146TH OPEN
July 22, 2017
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
MATT KUCHAR: No, no, that's expected with Jordan.  I had a very good feeling about my putt, thought I'd knock it in.  If Jordan made his, I was going to make it on top, but mine slid by the edge.  That's part of the game.   
It's not that I ever felt like I was playing Jordan today.  We certainly had a great round of golf.  I never felt like I was out there trying to beat Jordan.  It's trying to go up against Royal Birkdale and put on the best show you can against the golf course.   
He and I had a lot of birdies.  It was a fun round of golf.  There was a hole or two where we were confused on who had the honour, there was a birdie and a birdie and a birdie.  And who's up now?  It was certainly a fun back and forth.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
MATT KUCHAR: Continue with good golf.  Again, I'll be playing with him but not focused on him.  My goal is to go out and play Royal Birkdale.  I'll know exactly where we stand but I don't know how much that ever helps you.  You just have to go out and hit the best shot for the situation.  I've been on some good form.  The formula has produced a lot of good golf and I hope it continues to produce some good golf tomorrow.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, I think it only matters maybe come 71st hole to adopt your strategy, maybe.  70th hole.  To go, hey, maybe I'm 3-down, now, maybe I need to be a little more aggressive than normal.   
Other than that I don't know that you adapt strategy a whole lot.  Whatever situation you kind of find yourself in, you try to execute the best shot you can.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
MATT KUCHAR: No, that was too bad.  That got a little bit wet at the time, it finally started raining, and the ball just slipped a little bit and over caught.  It was frustrating.  I actually thought when I hit it, I thought it was a pretty good drive.  There was cold enough, wet enough, enough wind that it held up in the bunker and frustrating because I know there's so much room left.  Even the left rough is very playable.  It's very light over there on 16.  So it's a frustrating miss.  But it's a one shot, I took my penalty.  And too bad I three-putted there and made it worse.   
It's great to bounce back with a birdie on 17 and almost have a birdie on 18.   
 Q.  Did you feel any different?  Was it similar to any other pressure-packed moments or was it different?  
MATT KUCHAR: It was awfully exciting.  It's clearly very, very unique.  Being in the last group of a major championship is an exciting place to be.  You can compete in a major championships and you can be playing and teeing off at 10:30.  It's fun to be out there but it's not like having that 4:00 tee time.  It's a completely different animal and it's exciting to be there.   
 Q.  What did you say to Jordan on the way up to 18?  
MATT KUCHAR: Pretty cool, it's a British Open.  Walking up the 18th, the last group Saturday of a British Open, having the stands and the people cheer, it's completely unique.  It's completely different than any tournament we play in the United States, and just kind of soaked it in for a second, said, "This is pretty cool to be here walking up the last hole of a British Open."  And it was just a neat moment.   
 Q.  Talk about Augusta compared with this theater here at the Open.  
MATT KUCHAR: Each have its own uniqueness.  You kind of have the links land and dunes and the grandstands coming up the 18th.  Augusta is different with the pine trees and kind of the hills and have some different echoing around the course in a manner that you're kind of familiar with.  And now here I don't know if I can describe it well.  You guys will probably have better adjectives than me.  But the British Open crowd is different and fun to be in front of.   
 Q.  Talk about the scoring today.  Could someone shoot another 63 or 62?  
MATT KUCHAR: Actually I don't know what the conditions are.  If we have conditions like this, yeah.  I doubt we get another day quite this nice.  You could not have had better conditions with weather, with temperature, with rain overnight.  It was very scorable.  I don't think there are many days that Royal Birkdale sees that are quite like this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT