THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 3, 2017
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just some comments on today's round.  You played your way into the final group.  
MATT KUCHAR: I'm excited to have another chance here.  It looked like after 36 holes that none of us were going to have a chance at it.  And shocked that Jason gave us a chance.   
For me, best I can do is just control my golf game and went out and played some good golf and 5-under today.  It was a slow start, a whole bunch of pars to start my round.  I thought I was playing pretty good golf, and able to get some birdies there on 8 and 9.   
Good stretch on 13, 14, 15 really helped me out there.   
 Q.  You've had success here.  When you come here on a Sunday, when you're in contention, you've got a shot to win it, what's a Sunday like around here?  
MATT KUCHAR: Sundays when you have a chance to win at golf tournament is very exciting.  Any time you have a chance on the PGA Tour is a thrill.  At Jack Nicklaus' Memorial Tournament, it's certainly a special place.  And I think anybody within probably four or five, six shots of the lead is going to be awfully excited going into tomorrow.   
 Q.  When you parred the first seven holes, knowing how much of a cushion Jason had, were you thinking about playing my game or thinking about getting in contention?  
MATT KUCHAR: No, you don't really concern yourself about others, you play the best you can.  And some days it's your day and you can make a push and make some birdies, and some days it's not and it's all about avoiding bogeys.  I knew I was playing good, I knew if I stayed patient things would go my way, fortunately they started to.   
 Q.  What turned around for you?  
MATT KUCHAR: I don't think there was a turnaround.  Golf is a funny game.  You take the birdies when they come.  If they come early, they come early; if they come late, they come late.  You just keep plodding along.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT