THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 2, 2017
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Another solid round today.  Unfortunate bogey on the last.  5-under, pretty good shape.  Long way from the leader.  
MATT KUCHAR: I played two nice rounds of golf.  I can only control what I can do.   
 Q.  What do you think about Dufner doing what he's doing?  
MATT KUCHAR: Pretty impressive.  We had perfect conditions.  If you're playing well, there's birdie opportunities.  It feels liken with a couple good shots, which I've hit into the greens, and you get inside of ten feet it feels Augusta-ish, a lot of times you've got a 10-footer with three or four feet of break.  It's just challenging to make those, even though you know you've hit two good shots and have a great birdie look.   
When you have a putt with that much break or speed, it doesn't feel like you're going to make that many of them.  And clearly Dufner is making it at the moment.   
 Q.  Is it fun to see a guy like Dufner and Spieth playing well?  Is there anything to that, just having more familiarity with this course?  
MATT KUCHAR: I don't think there's anything to that.   
 Q.  You built up quite a résumé at this point, where does winning here rank in your accomplishments?  
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, it's certainly one of my highlights.  This is a special place, one of the best tournaments we play all year, to be Jack's tournament.  And to look at the name of past champions, it's a prestigious list and one I'm certainly proud of.   
 Q.  One of the elements here is the weather, and obviously it's beautiful today and potentially great tomorrow.  Sunday could be a bit of an issue, how much in your planning for this tournament is weather?  
MATT KUCHAR: You know, it's interesting, I guess there are rumors, we might be doing 36 tomorrow to offset Sunday's bad weather, which is an interesting thought to prepare for.  But you have to prepare for the weather.  Around here everybody packs sweaters and rain gear.  I certainly have sweaters and rain gear ready to go if Sunday is not so nice.   
 Q.  When we do get some rainfall, will the course change significantly or do you think -- obviously I know it depends on how much rain falls, but how much does it change when you get moisture out there?  
MATT KUCHAR: Right now the course is in fantastic shape.  The greens are firm but very playable.  We're getting a little bit of roll on the fairways, as well.  When you get some rain, the course plays longer, softer.  But when it's softer doesn't always mean it's harder.  It typically plays a little easier.  Typically you can be a little bit more aggressive into the greens and green speeds are tough to get quite as quick when they're soft.  You might even see some better scores, if there's some rain Saturday and Sunday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT