WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2017
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 2-under par today.  What was the difference in your game?  I did notice you hit four less fairways.  Was that the key for you?
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, sure.  Like I told you yesterday, driving well is a very critical thing around here.  I drove it amazingly well yesterday.  Today was still good, not quite as sharp.
You know, I'd say that was probably the biggest difference.  Then those couple of bogeys, the 14th hole I hit two really good shots, and kind of got an unlucky break to find a bunker.  Made bogey there.  And to bogey the 17th is a shame.  Aside from that, there was a lot of good golf that was played.  I'm pleased with my 36-hole total.
Q. What was the difference for you from afternoon yesterday to morning.  Seems to play quite a bit longer.  And with the holes being tucked on the edges a lot, did that impact you?
MATT KUCHAR: It's a big difference from morning to afternoon.  The ball goes significantly longer in the afternoon.  It feels like the course plays so much longer in the morning.
Was that a huge impact?  The course may have played a touch more difficult in the morning, but still, it was good golf, steady golf.  I still finish my day and I'm pleased with it.
Q. Solid, solid day.  Not as low a round, but man, you're just playing effortlessly.  Looks easy and simple right now.  Not a lot of stress.
MATT KUCHAR: It is, not a lot of stress.  I like my golf game that way.  I'm awfully pleased.  36 holes, 9-under.  It was good going around this course today.
Missed a couple more fairways yesterday.  I really had it going with the driver today.  Still was good.  I look back, pleased with today's round.  Had those two bogeys, the 14th hole, frozen over my second shot.  Bounced twice, where I thought it was going to be up on the green, trickled back to the bunker for a tricky bunker shot.  Then 17, drove it to a terrible place.  It was a bad miss.
Other than that, it was really good quality, steady golf.  I was happy with my round.
Q. I walked up to your bunker shot at 5 about the same time you got up there and kind of looked away.  I didn't make eye contact, because it's a lie you don't really practice.  It was like a cork screwed in the sand.  What was your thoughts there trying to get that out?
MATT KUCHAR: That was an amazing up-and-down.  When I walked up, I thought, how in the world did this ball bounce in the bunker, plug on the downslope?  I was looking to have a 25-, 30-footer coming back.  Figured that was the best I could do.
Dug in, gave it a good chop.  That was a lot of luck to have something inside 10 feet for par, an 8-footer.  I feel like I stole one there by getting that one.
Q. You haven't played that much.  You're excited, where you might have played more golf this time of year?
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, normally I rush out to Palm Springs and get my game tuned up, go out to Hawaii, come back for a big West Coast swing.  I have been home.  It's been a lot of fun.
My boys, it's basketball season, I've been being dad.  I have been playing some golf, though.  My boys are into golf.  Every afternoon we go out to the course and play a couple of holes.  I'm excited to be back.  It was a long stretch for me.  I think I had six weeks off, but glad to be back out here.
Q. Second round, Matt.  How would you describe today's effort maybe as opposed to the round on Thursday?
MATT KUCHAR: Hard to keep up with yesterday's 7-under.  I played amazing golf yesterday.  I still feel like today was very steady golf.
Missed a couple more fairways today.  Driving the ball well is crucial to shooting low numbers around here.  I missed a couple more fairways, but all in all it was a good day.
Q. How differently did this course play this morning as opposed to yesterday afternoon?
MATT KUCHAR: Certainly longer in the morning.  This morning, it was cold out.  Ball is not going near as far.  Helps on some of these holes to be hitting shorter irons at the end of the holes.
Pins yesterday were tucked, pins today were tucked.  There are not a whole lot of great opportunities that I could really get at.
Q. Your time off at the end of the year, working with your teacher.  How fresh are you with regards to just two rounds into your 2017 season and where you want to be, ultimately?
MATT KUCHAR: Come out not really knowing.  It's one thing to play at home and feel pretty good about your game.  It's another thing to come out on the PGA TOUR and compete in a tournament.
I come with little expectations.  I come knowing it's my first tournament of the year.  I also feel I put quality time in at home and was as prepared as I could make myself to come out here.
Fortunately it's showing off well.  I had that first tournament, early year excitement, as well.  I'm enjoying being out here, and I'm looking forward to this weekend.
Q. You have got to be comfortable and happy with the position you're in after 36 this week.
MATT KUCHAR: I've played good, steady golf today.  I was pleased, 2-under.  Hard to keep up with yesterday's round, but hard to keep up with a 7-under par round.  I hit a lot of good shots.  I think I missed a couple more fairways than I did yesterday.
Like I said yesterday, in order to keep shooting low numbers, you have to drive the ball well around here.  Fortunately, for the most part, I drove it well and played some good golf.
Q. Phil and Brendan said the course plays a lot harder than it used to.  Do you like that?  Do you miss seeing 61s, 62s out here all the time?
MATT KUCHAR: There is a handful of events you kind of know what you're getting into, and the Bob Hope was that way where you went out and knew you'd have to make a lot of birdies.
That was the deal out here.  You come to the desert and expect perfect weather and expect some good scores to be shot.  The course is definitely harder than it used to be.  I think that was part of their goal.  Whether or not players like it or not...
Q. After the layoff, are you surprised where you are right now?
MATT KUCHAR: You never know until you come out and play.  I can do my best at home to have some sort of judgment.  I feel like I prepared well, put some good practice sessions in.
But I come to this tournament without much for expectations.  I come in knowing it's the first one, even though I feel fully prepared.  I always feel the first tournament or two kind of gets your feet under you and gets you used to competitive golf again.
Very pleased with where I am.
Q. A couple of guys have said there is a different energy when you approach 15 and 16.  Do you sense that?
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, this tournament has a great buzz to it.  To have this many people out is exciting.
Even around the front side, there are a lot of holes with huge, huge crowds.  You come to No. 9, and they are all up the hillside.  It's got a great buzz.
Once you kind of enter 16, there is a huge buzz there.  It's fun to play that hole and hit the shot and see what kind of reaction you get.
Q. When all is said and done, after Sunday, how low do you think you have to go to win?  What's the winning score?
MATT KUCHAR: I'm not good at making those assessments or calls.  I have no idea.  I keep plotting along.
Q. How is the bronze medal?  Is that a long-term goal for you to head back to the Olympics?
MATT KUCHAR: Yeah, absolutely.  The Olympics was just an absolute dream come through.  It was a thrill.  Funny, of all the tournament success I have had, the Olympic bronze has gone just as far as any.  It's been an amazing carryover behind the Olympics and what that means to people.
It's the one thing I continue to carry with me is that bronze medal.  It is easier to travel with than most trophies or awards, but it's been a fun thing to show off.  People are really moved when they get a chance to see it.
Q. Where is it?
MATT KUCHAR: In the backpack.
Q. Every week?
MATT KUCHAR: So far, yeah.  It's been staying with me.
Q. Driver or 3-wood on 17?
MATT KUCHAR: Driver.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT