TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 4, 2008
Kyle Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Kyle Thompson into the interview room here at The Turning Stone Resort Championship. Kyle a second consecutive 3-under, 69. If we could just get some comments on your round.  
 KYLE THOMPSON: Sure. Day was going extremely easy through the 12th hole. Made four birdies and really no struggles at all. I having a lot of fun, and then got to 13 and 14 and made a couple bogeys.   
 It was really first time I had to fight this week. I was pretty happy the way I played. Finished with a nice birdie so got myself in a great position.   
 JOHN BUSH: I know it's been a rough season on the PGA Tour for you. You had a second place finish, I believe it was, at Nationwide Tour.  
 KYLE THOMPSON: Two.   
 JOHN BUSH: Two of them. Talk a little bit about what that's done for your confidence here heading into the fall finish.  
 KYLE THOMPSON: I really feel like I've been playing well for a while now, you know, my scores just haven't shown it. Three weeks ago I think it was in Salt Lake City I finished tied for second. Really started striking the ball well, and my putter is finally turning around.   
 You know, I've got pretty low expectations, but now that I'm where I am I'd really like to play great tomorrow. Nobody is really expecting me to do a whole lot, but why not, you know? A couple of my great friends, Chez Reavie and Parker McLachlin, have done it this year. If they can do it, why can't I?   
 JOHN BUSH: Okay. Questions.  
  
  Q. Some of the other guys on the leaderboard are longer than you. Is it a disadvantage in these conditions on this course to not be as long as those guys?  
 KYLE THOMPSON: Well, the stats are kind of deceiving. I mean, I'm not a short hitter, but I'm hitting a lot of fairways, and that's the most important thing out here. Through two rounds, you know, I think I was second in greens in regulation.   
 It definitely helps to be long, but it's more important to be close to the hole after your second shot, so...   
 Thankfully I've been really striking the ball solid all week, and hopefully one more day of that.   
  
  Q. Has there been anything in particular that's kind of kept you where you are out here as opposed to the Nationwide Tour?   
 KYLE THOMPSON: You know, not really. It's just a little bit about getting comfortable out here. I had a decent finish in Puerto Rico. I finished 15th. Just never quite felt as comfortable out here as I have on the Nationwide Tour. I'd be the first to admit that.   
 I knew that as soon as I did get comfortable that I would do fine. Feel like I've been close a few times this year, but putting together three and four rounds has been tough. Hopefully I can stay out of my way and just stay in the process and hit one shot at a time and play some good golf tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Did you talk to your buddies after they won about kind of what they went through?   
 KYLE THOMPSON: Yeah, a little bit. Picked their brains. Really no different than winning on the Nationwide Tour. Yeah, there's a bigger crowd and more money, but any time you win, whether it's Nationwide or Hooters or any tour, you've got to play well and believe in yourself.   
 You just got to stay in your own little bubble and not let anything outside of your world distract you.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about that 60-footer you had on 15. That was a monster putt.   
 KYLE THOMPSON: Thank you. Yeah, you could add up all the putts I made on Thursday and Friday and I don't think they'd be 60 feet. It was one of those putts you look at it and it's like, Oh, this looks kind of good. It was going to break about a foot total and it was left and it was downhill.   
 As soon as I hit it I was like, Oh, this looks pretty good. It's kind of going end over end and I think it went in on about the last roll. That was definitely the highlight of my round. Kind of turned me back around after those two bogeys and kept me in this tournament.  
 JOHN BUSH: Okay. In addition to that birdie, let's go through the others, starting on the 1st hole. Always nice to start with a birdie on No. 1.   
 KYLE THOMPSON: Yeah, I hit a nice shot and spun back and made probably an 18-footer.  
 4, the par-4, I made a long one there. Probably a 35-footer up the hill.   
 JOHN BUSH: Okay. No. 8, the par-5.  
 KYLE THOMPSON: 8, God, this is so long ago. Let me think here. Yeah, hit a good shot in there. I've played all these par-5s this week just trying to play them as three-shot holes. I've played them probably better than I've played any par-5s this year.   
 There's a few of them I could probably reach, but, you know, it's just not worth it. But 8 I hit my third shot in to about ten feet and made the bogey.  
 JOHN BUSH: Okay. The bogeys on 13 and 14.  
 KYLE THOMPSON: 13, I hit it in the fairway bunker. These lips are pretty big and I just caught the edge of the lip coming out. Made an honest bogey. Made a great two-putt for bogey actually.   
 14 was like the first bad shot I hit all week. I completely just laid the sod over a 7-iron and just chunked it. Luckily it didn't go in the water. Actually made a good up-and-down for bogey there.   
 JOHN BUSH: Okay. 15.  
 KYLE THOMPSON: 15, the birdie there, that's the bomb that I made.   
 JOHN BUSH: All right. The bogey on 17.  
 KYLE THOMPSON: 17, that was my second bad shot of the week really. Just pulled my second shot left. All week I've just trying to hit soft fades with every shot, and the last three full swings of day I tried to hit firm shots and just pulled them all. So hopefully I won't be in that predicament tomorrow and just try to fade everything.   
 JOHN BUSH: 18 you birdied all three days. Go through that hole for us.  
 KYLE THOMPSON: Well, I've had a two-footer, two-and-a-half-footer, and about a four-footer. Nice. I like those kind.   
 JOHN BUSH: Anything else?   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT