FAMILY CIRCLE CUP
March 29, 1995
Sandra Cacic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SANDRA CACIC: Don't jump at once. 
 

Q.  Why was it such a back and forth match?  What caused it?
 
SANDRA CACIC: First set I couldn't get into a groove.  I mean, I was trying to feel out what she was doing and she was playing pretty well the first set, and then I got the feeling that she kind of slipped off a little bit and then in the third set we both kind of feeled each other's game out and it was pretty good. But I tried to stay mentally tough in the third set, and I guess I played better than she did in the end. 
 

Q.  Did you feel things slipping away a little bit when it got to 5-5?
 
SANDRA CACIC: No, because that happened before in the past and I tried not to think about it. I was just thinking about getting my first serve in and playing one point at a time because if I think ahead then I start choking. 
 

Q.  Seeded players are becoming something of an endangered species around here.  Is there an explanation?  I know maybe -- especially the top seeds get a first round bye, they're not on clay at all until they beat somebody whose gotten through.
 
SANDRA CACIC: It's always tough when you have a bye at first round because the player before, they already have one match under their belt and now these days anybody can play, it's not just the top players anymore.  A lot of the lower ranked players are working harder and getting more confidence and things are getting better for women's tennis; a lot more competition which is good. 
 

Q.  So you think parity is a good thing?
 
SANDRA CACIC: Of course. 
 

Q.  Especially today.
 
SANDRA CACIC: Yeah. 
 

Q.  Are you surprised she tried the drop shot there at 30-30?
 
SANDRA CACIC: Kind of, yeah, but -- I don't know why she did it.  I mean, I'm glad she did, she missed, but if it would have went over there's no way I would have gotten it.  She had a chance, go for it, it didn't go. 
 

Q.  No.
 
SANDRA CACIC: Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT