NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 29, 2006
Raja Bell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  How do you feel? 
 RAJA BELL:  Still a little tender and a little weak.  So I don't think Game 4 is really going to be a possibility right now.  So we'll have it tonight and go get some more treatment and see if I'm ready for Thursday. 
 Q.  It's the way you push off.  Is there some lack of confidence that it's going to be there when you do need to, when you come back? 
 RAJA BELL:  There was a little bit this morning.  I got it moving a little bit.  I kind of got confident with it but the leg itself just isn't strong yet. 
 Q.  Is there a chance of doing further damage if you get back and you make a cut and something tears further? 
 RAJA BELL:  Yeah, with an injury like this it's not just pain tolerance.  If that was the case, you know, I'd be ready to go.  But it's something you could tear if you tear it completely, you have to have surgery on it.  And I guess it's not worth the risk right now. 
 It's unfortunate, but that's the way it is.  If it's a pain tolerance thing, most guys are good with pain, but it's a training staffs' call with an injury like this and you don't want to hurt yourself. 
 Q.  What's the rehab (inaudible)? 
 RAJA BELL:  Today was light.  I did a couple of movements on a couple ladder drills, pretty light weight. 
 Q.  Steve mentioned -- I don't know if you saw his comments.  He said they're not just missing the depth but the personality and the edge you bring.  Did you hear him say that and do you see that in your team right now, maybe they're missing your personality? 
 RAJA BELL:  I don't know.  I didn't hear it.  But I don't know that it was me.  I think it was just, you know, we came out a little flat.  We've had that kind of -- we've had that kind of problem all season where we come out flat at the wrong time sometimes. 
 The good part is we normally make up for that the next night, so hopefully tomorrow night we'll bounce back. 
 Q.  You're going through this where you lost Amare and Kurt and then the seven-game series, then losing you, and now you're down 2-1, when will it be that this team finally breaks? 
 RAJA BELL:  I don't think it's ever too much.  Can't be.  If it's too much we go home. 
 Q.  Can you look out there and still see enough on the floor that even if you can't -- 
 RAJA BELL:  Yeah, we had chances to win that game last night.  We had chances to win Game 2 in Dallas.  They did a good job and took those game from us.  You didn't see a team that was undermanned and underbodied.  They won those games. 
 We've been beat before and bounced back and found ways to win.  I don't think it will be any different. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT