NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SUNS v MAVERICKS
May 25, 2006
Raja Bell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   RAJA BELL:  You know, I haven't had a whole lot of time to heal.  So maybe in the next 12 to 24 it will do some rapid healing for me. 
 Q.  Sounds like you're doing more optimistic playing than reality here? 
 RAJA BELL:  If you're negative you're not giving yourself a chance.  So I'm going to approach this one with a positive spin and hopefully, like I said, the training staff is very good.  Keeps us ready to play all year so I'm sure they'll do what they need to do and hopefully everybody will do the same. 
 Q.  When do you think you'll actually be able to play? 
 RAJA BELL:  You know, I don't know.  It's kind of hard for me to say.  It's tough to -- if I can play I will play. 
 I don't want to risk me injuring it or making it any worse.  It will be on (inaudible) once they think I'm ready to go and then I'll go out there and give it a shot. 
 Q.  Have you ever had anything like this, Raja? 
 RAJA BELL:  I've had a calf strain earlier this year.  I missed the Cleveland game but I never really felt it pop.  So I haven't experienced that one yet. 
 Q.  (Inaudible) again as far as what you know what you were doing? 
 RAJA BELL:  I wasn't doing much.  I had shot the ball.  I went to take a step back towards the basket to go after a rebound.  And I just felt a pop.  And then I thought someone had hit me with something and I looked back and it started to burn, and that's when I kind of figured I should stay down. 
 Q.  You said you're not -- you're not playing tomorrow? 
 RAJA BELL:  I didn't say that. 
 Q.  I'm sorry. 
 RAJA BELL:  I didn't say that. 
 Q.  Leaving the door open and just going to wait and see? 
 RAJA BELL:  Yeah.  I mean, if something -- if it heals and I can play and they don't think I can make it any worse, I mean I'm not saving anything.  You know?  We have how many more wins, seven more wins in the championship.  So if it gets worse, I have all summer to rest is the way I look at it.  If they deem that I can go out there and be effective enough to help the team then I'm ready to go. 
 Q.  How much does this hurt you guys just because you guys aren't very deep? 
 RAJA BELL:  Yeah, that's kind of tough because we've only been playing... 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT