NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 21, 2018
Damian Lillard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. My question is about your supporting cast. In the last seven to eight games, your supporting cast started playing much better, like they did last night.  I'd like you to talk about them and how you've see them grow throughout the season?
DAMIAN LILLARD: I think we have become a much better team because of how we're leaning on each other and counting on each other.  We're a better team that way.  I think guys have more confidence because we're making the right plays.  Guys are feeling, I guess, more involved offensively, so that's making them more engaged defensively.
Anytime you get the kind of production that we're getting from everybody, not just a few guys, it will make you a better team.  So they've been really consistent.  We've gotten a lot from Ed [Davis], we've gotten a lot from Chief [Al-Farouq Aminu], Moe [Harkless], Pat [Connaughton], Zach [Collins], Evan [Turner], everybody who has come into the game has impacted the game in a positive way.  Not just sometimes, it's been all the time.  And I think that's what's allowed us to have that type of winning streak.
Q. Going again with the team and how you've been doing in the last weeks.  I wanted to know what do you think is the difference between the team this season and last season?
DAMIAN LILLARD: I think the biggest difference between our team this season and last season is our experience together.  One more year of us being on the same team, understanding each other a little bit better.  Also just being a much better defensive team.
In the past we've had the ability to score points.  Obviously, we're doing a much better job offensively this season because everybody's a part of it.  We're getting offensive production from more guys than we have in the past.
But I think our defense has been a huge deal.  We worked our way into being one of the top defensive teams in the league.  Just our experience together.  We're a tight-knit group.  Over time we've gotten comfortable with each other, and I think we're starting to mesh really well.
Q. Damian, if I could start off by saying even though the 13-game winning streak has now come to an end against Houston, still all the features of your transition game were on display.  Fast ball movement, spreading the floor and attacking the rim.  There is certainly maturity in the dressing room this year of a group that's been together for a while, and that must give you confidence and belief that you can go a long way and be a force in the playoffs this year.
DAMIAN LILLARD: Just the fact that, like you said, we had the winning streak and we beat a lot of good teams during that winning streak, we had some good wins on the road.  But I think playing against Houston, you know, the best team in the league right now, and myself and CJ [McCollum], our top two guys on the offensive end are not having a great night, and we still find ourselves down two under a minute left with a chance to get a stop and maybe go to overtime or win the game.  Then they get offensive rebounds and go to the free throw line and beat us by four.
But I think we just have a lot of confidence when we don't have great games and our team is still in position to win the game.
Q. Do you think that you guys are really peaking at the right time?  And I wanted to find out why do you think you guys have started to click lately?
DAMIAN LILLARD: I do.  I think sometimes people come out in the beginning of the season and they play great and they look great.  You always hear people saying they're playing really well early, and it's almost kind of scary because you want them to be playing really well late.  Going into the playoff stretch, going into the playoffs.
But I think for us it's just been a factor of we've gotten production from so many different guys, not just in the starting lineup, but off the bench.  Guys are consistent.  Our team was able to count on that and trust that, so I think it's reflecting in the way we're playing together.
Q. After last night's tough loss, what would be one positive and one aspect of the game that you need to improve after the loss yesterday?
DAMIAN LILLARD: I think just the fact, like I said, we didn't have a great offensive game for me or CJ and we still were in position to win the game.  I think anytime you have that, that's just saying how we're a complete team.
I think also we look at it and we say, okay, we played hard.  We got a lot of production from guys.  Maybe if we get a few more stops it might get a little harder on James Harden.  Throw a few more bodies at him where he's not just playing iso on guys at the end.  That's an adjustment we can make and maybe we can get it done.
I think there are a lot of positives to take away from that type of effort.  That's a really good team.
Q. A lot of people believe you have been overlooked for a long time.
DAMIAN LILLARD: Thank you.
Q. My question is after the 13 straight wins, including the Cavaliers, Thunder and the Warriors, do you believe that you guys have a legit chance to get to the Finals to win the Conference Finals and probably go on and win it all in the Finals this year?  Also, C.J. McCollum attended the NBA Africa game in 2017, and we're having a new African game in August this year.  Do you plan to attend that?
DAMIAN LILLARD: As far as the game in Africa, I would love to be a part of it.  We'll see if my schedule allows that. [Lillard is having a child this summer].
As far as our team being legit, I do think it starts with how you feel about yourself and your confidence and your mentality.  I think we're the kind of team that can get the job done.  We know it's a tough task and the Rockets are a great team and the Warriors are a great team, so is OKC.  We just feel like the kind of basketball we're playing and how our team is clicking, we feel like we've got a chance.  We're a team that's capable of winning the West.  We've just got to go out there and prove it.
Q. Do you think you are in the MVP conversation right now?
DAMIAN LILLARD: I think so.  I think with our team's success and my individual performance so far this season, I think I am.  But I think we all know who is going to win the MVP.
Q. Following up on the question asked, where do you think you rank in the MVP place?  And do you think you get the recognition you deserve for playing so well, especially in the last 20 games?
DAMIAN LILLARD: I think -- I don't know.  Probably top five, maybe.  I mean, I don't really know what to say about the recognition part.  It is what it is.
Q. Congratulations about your baby.
DAMIAN LILLARD: Thank you.
Q. Last week Lebron James said:  Give me Lillard and see how appreciated he can be.  What if Lebron comes to Portland?  Would you guys be among the most dominant in the NBA?
DAMIAN LILLARD: I think so for sure.  That would be great.  That would be great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT