NBA PLAYOFFS ROUND TWO: TRAIL BLAZERS vs WARRIORS
May 1, 2016
Damian Lillard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Trail Blazers - 106, Warriors - 118   
 Q.  After a game like that, do you feel it's just one game and flush it and move on?  
DAMIAN LILLARD: I think you just -- like you said, it's one game.  Our team competed really hard, and we just got to understand that they are a good first quarter team.  We got to be better from the start of the game.   
So once we fix that and continue to compete the way we did, we'll have a chance.   
 Q.  Is there any sense that Steph Curry not playing now, he might be playing at any time; this might be an opportunity slipping away when he's not on the court?  
DAMIAN LILLARD: Well, we can't look at it that way.  They are an elite team either way, and they showed that tonight.   
So like I said, we've got to go watch film and make corrections, and come back and be ready to play a full game, 48 minutes.   
 Q.  Based on what you saw today, what's your biggest defensive challenge going forward as a team?  
DAMIAN LILLARD: Understanding that they pass the ball really well.  Helping each other out, being physical, having a presence on the ball so they don't have straight-line passes.  We're just making life more difficult for them.   
 Q.  I know you have a large fan base in Oakland.  I wonder how you feel playing the playoffs here in your hometown?  
DAMIAN LILLARD: It's an honor.  A lot of my family and friends are here, have an opportunity to see me play at the highest stage.   
I just want to enjoy it.  I'm glad to be here with my team and have the chance to continue playing.   
 Q.  You've had to grind to get buckets this playoffs.  Do you feel like you got a rhythm towards the end there?  
DAMIAN LILLARD: Our bigs did a great job setting screens, even early in the game.  I got some looks that I usually would have made that I didn't knock down.  So next game, I look forward to the challenge again.  At this point in the season, all that matters is winning.  You either win or you lose; you advance or you go home.  At this point, we're just trying to fix things and make sure that our season keeps going.   
 Q.  What did you say to your grandfather since you didn't get to his birthday party?  
DAMIAN LILLARD: Yeah, I actually did make it.  We got in town in time.  I was able to get up there and say some words and tell him how much I appreciated him.  A lot of people don't live to see 80, so it's a blessing to have a grandfather this long, especially the kind that I have, and for him to not only be able to have me at his party, but to be able to come to this game.   
 Q.  You and C.J. had a bit of a rough start shooting.  How important is it for you guys to have good games, particularly early on -- are you sick?  
DAMIAN LILLARD: It's huge for us.  We score a lot of points for the team.  That gives us our best chance to win games, especially against a team that can fill it up like them.  We've just got to be better.   
I got some looks that I need to make.  C.J. did, as well.  We just got to be better offensively if we want to have a chance against this team.   
I've been battling a little bit of a chest cold for the last couple days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT