JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 20, 2009
Terry Pilkadaris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How was that?  
 TERRY PILKADARIS: It was good. I started holing some putts which makes the game easier.  
 I've been struggling with inconsistency. I've got the wife back on the bag and trying to get the head right again and go on from there.  
  
  Q. The last time we spoke to you was in Europe, so it's been a while?  
 TERRY PILKADARIS: When I went to Europe in 2007 and 2008, I was really struggling. I went from fifth on the putting stats to 175th. I don't know what it was with Europe. The greens didn't agree with me and I don't know what it was. We're trying to fix it. I struggled with the putter and the driver as well and when that happens, you're not going to perform.  
  
  Q. Any plans to go back there?  
 TERRY PILKADARIS: I didn't consolidate my ranking in Europe. But if I can fire it up at the weekend we could be back there.  
  
  Q. Did you have much of a break?  
 TERRY PILKADARIS: The Volvo Masters of Asia finished at the end of December, and I had the whole of January off. I was doing 10 to 15 long haul flights, Australia, Asia and Europe. It knocked me out a little bit by the end of the year. I remember on the Friday morning, standing on the driving range at the Australian Open, I couldn't swing the club past hip height. I was exhausted and needed a break. I took four weeks off which was nice. I didn't miss golf either.  
  
  Q. Is it a surprise to see your name on the leaderboard?  
 TERRY PILKADARIS: It's good. It's like getting back to the old days. I've got Monique back on the bag and pulling the strings. And she's telling me where to go and most of the time, I listen.  
 Europe, mentally it killed me and we're just trying to get the bad stuff out of the head. Hopefully we can get back on track.  
  
  Q. How is the working relationship?  
 TERRY PILKADARIS: She's the boss. She pulls the strings. She's very rarely wrong. I've had a lot of success when she's been on the bag. I've got her for five weeks and I'd better make use of that.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT