DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 30, 2005
Terry Pilkadaris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
65  Carnoustie (-5)
Q. Nine birdies and a round of 65 at Carnoustie in strong winds. You must be delighted?
TERRY PILKADARIS: It was unbelievable. I bogeyed the first as well, so I was three over and I thought, "I've had enough of this" as I'd dropped a bundle of shots yesterday. I got going and through the middle of the round I just went crazy -- rolled in a couple of 25-30 footers and capitalised on the par fives and nearly holed it on 16, where I hit to about a foot. It was good playing.
Q. You missed a short putt at 18, which must have been a little frustrating?
TERRY PILKADARIS: The putt was right lip. The wind was blowing off the right so I thought I'd give it a ball outside, but I just hit it a bit too firm on that line. I was a bit cross with myself.
Q. You qualified for this event on the Asian Tour, where you are winner. Do you want to play on The European Tour?
TERRY PILKADARIS:  Absolutely. That's the next step for me. I want to play the bigger tours and more prominent tours. The Asian Tour is getting on really well with the number of events they are getting but obviously you want to compete against the likes of Montgomerie, Thomas Bjorn and the other guys.
Q. Have you ever played here before?
TERRY PILKADARIS: No. I came out on Wednesday and practised. It is a privilege to play here with all the history at St. Andrews and Carnoustie.
Q. And how has your season been on the Asian Tour?
TERRY PILKADARIS: I have won there this year and I am fourth on the Order of Merit. I think we have got another nine events left but I am only going to play four or five.
Q. Obviously you did not manage to get through Q School last year. Will you have another go this year?
TERRY PILKADARIS: Hopefully not! I've entered -- I'm exempt through to the finals, so we'll see what happens here. I am trying to get an invite next week but we'll just wait and see and take it as it comes. I'm itching to get here.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT