BATTLEFROG FIESTA BOWL: NOTRE DAME VS OHIO STATE
December 30, 2015
Joey Bosa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. (No microphone.)
JOEY BOSA: I never really loved being in the spotlight, you know.  I've never been that kind of person.  I pretty much like sitting in my apartment, being in a dark cave alone for hours.  I spend the whole day in there.  I have no problem with that.
I have a tight circle.  I'm not really letting a lot of people into my life.  I just got my guys, that's really it.
Q. I would imagine there's temptation.
JOEY BOSA: They want to go out, want everyone to see them.  It's cool, but you would rather people recognizing you than not recognizing you.  You know, I never like going out in public and getting stopped every 10 minutes.  I kind of like just laying low and doing my own thing.
Q. (Question regarding camp.)
JOEY BOSA: The weeks were long, but they didn't kill us.  It's hard to practice with no game at the end of the week.
Q. So are the steak dinners your favorite part of Arizona?
JOEY BOSA: So far.  Went to Morton's.  Spent way too much money there.  Spent all of our per diem, the money they gave us.  Now we're all out of cash.
We went to Steak 44 last night, which was good, too, but I don't think it was as good as Morton's.
Q. Did you expect it to be warmer here?  You're a Florida guy.
JOEY BOSA: I heard it was going to be cooler, but I was hoping for a little more, laying by the pool.
Q. Tyler said he didn't bring a jacket.
JOEY BOSA: Luckily I'm going to Chicago after this game, so I brought some extra cold weather stuff, so I'm prepared.
Q. (No microphone.)
JOEY BOSA: Definitely intense.  Definitely got a lot of passion.  But we all trust him.  He came in here with a winning background, so we all put our trust in him and bought into what he was selling to us.  That's just excellence, a culture of excellence.
I think since he was such a good coach beforehand, that made it easier for us to trust in him.  After following him to the national championship, we know he knows what he's doing.  It's really easy to buy in to what he's selling.
Q. (No microphone.)
JOEY BOSA: It's always great going against the best of the best.  It's definitely going to be a challenge.  It's really exciting for all of us.  It's no fun playing bad players.  Arguably two of the best teams in the country going against each other.  It's going to be an exciting matchup.
Q. (No microphone.)
JOEY BOSA: It's such a selfless move.  He's such a freak athlete, I knew he'd be great at receiver as well.  It's selfless of him to make the transition without complaining about it at all.  Never complained about it at practice.  Always just going out and working.
Q. Coach gave a speech yesterday with the history of the game.  Must have made an impression on you.
JOEY BOSA: I'm trying to think of the speech you're talking about.
Q. He was talking about why this Notre Dame game is so important.
JOEY BOSA: Yeah, I mean, I think he was just trying to talk about how we need to be happy with where we are.  He made a big point that things don't always work out how you want them to work out in life.  But that's life, as he said.
That's exactly what happened here.  We had one goal in mind, and we didn't reach that goal.  But we have a great opportunity ahead of us.  We can't let it slip away.  I think that's what he was preaching.
Q. This is obviously a great opponent.  Is this different than playing, like, Alabama?
JOEY BOSA: I don't think the name really changes a lot for us.  Obviously Notre Dame is a great school, great tradition.  All respect goes out to them and their program, their school.
But I don't think it makes that much of a difference, gives any more fuel to the fire that it's Notre Dame or Alabama or anybody else, like you said.
Q. Who do you think that we don't know about is going to step in next year?
JOEY BOSA: Sam has improved a lot this year, just watching what the guys in front of him do.  He just emulates it so well.  He's so smart, so he's so knowledgeable of the game.
We have a lot of great young guys.  Jalyn Holmes who played a lot this year as well is in Sam's grade.  He's another great end.  Of course, you'll have my brother coming in next year.  I think he'll have an immediate impact.  We have a lot of inside guys who are really raw and young.  There will be a lot of guys stepping up next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT