TEXAS CHRISTIAN UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 16, 2019
Taye Barber
Vernon Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TCU - 33, Texas Tech - 31
Q. Taye, how big was this win for you guys?
TAYE BARBER: It was a big win. We knew -- we lost like a lot of close games this year, like four or five under seven points. Them games have been hard, so we tried to put all the little things together this week and just give us a chance to win, and we came out with a dub.
Q. Did you know a breakout game was kind of on the horizon for you? I think you had close to a dozen targets, over 100 yards.
TAYE BARBER: I don't really think of stuff like that. I just play to win, play as hard as I can. If stuff comes my way, then I've got to make the play that I can.
Q. From a receiver's perspective, how hard is a catch like that in the first quarter where it's tipped and you're on the long ball? How difficult is that?
TAYE BARBER: It was real difficult. Me and my friends, we stayed on that JUGS machine like all summer. You've just got to focus in and let it come to you.
Q. Can you talk about Max's performance and how he was out there today for you guys?
TAYE BARBER: Dog. That's all you can say. He's a dog. None of us look at him like a freshman. He came in in the spring early, been doing this. This is nothing new to us, he just has the (indiscernible) on game days.
Q. Coach said Max kind of scares him with how reckless he is. How much do you guys like that fire he has, especially when he's running?
TAYE BARBER: Tough. Just make the plays that he can. He gives it all every chance he gets, every play, every down, so we just know when Max is on our team we're just going to be good.
Q. What was your emotion like when Vernon calls that fumble and Tre recovered it?
TAYE BARBER: I was too happy. Like I said, we lost a lot of close games. Overall a win at Texas Tech is a very hard place to play at, and it was a good win.
Q. On that pick play, kind of what's the technique there and kind of going forward how will you learn from that?
TAYE BARBER: I said, you can't just run and go at the person, but what I did, I tried to go -- I set up inside and I put my hands up so it was like a spot run so they can't call it on me, but they ended up calling me and we just lived on with it, took our three points.
Q. (Indiscernible).
TAYE BARBER: I thought I was -- we practiced it all week. I thought we was good.
Q. Vernon, take us through that last play, the fumble and what you saw there.
VERNON SCOTT: Well, from film watch, we knew what type of play they were going to run because of their alignment, so basically I just seen it and I just seen the alignment pull out and I just reacted to it, and Coach said we had to make a play, so I just put my hand on the ball and it came out.
Q. You guys have been in so many close games this year. How good does it feel to finally be on the winning side of one of these games?
VERNON SCOTT: It feels so good to win close games. We've been in so many close games this year and we've just come up short. We just basically before the game, coach mart ins was telling us it would be about four or five plays that would change the game. That last drive and that one stop where (indiscernible) tackled the running back in the flats, that helped us win. It wasn't just my play that helped us win, it was the drive before that, as well.
Q. A couple starts in a row for Darius. What has he showed you, especially today causing that early interception?
VERNON SCOTT: He's just a ball hawk. He's always around the ball. He has a knack to just -- that's just him. Even coming in when he got redshirted he was always around the ball. Coach always knew that he was a playmaker. Yeah, no other choice but to put him in the game because you know he's going to make a play.
Q. How tough was it to lose Jeff there in the third quarter and how do you think you guys responded?
VERNON SCOTT: It was tough, man, like seeing it and knowing it on the replay that it was probably going to be targeting 100 percent, so I knew we were going to have to step up. We were going to have to have a freshman corner come in and step up. They did. He kind of started off slow, but when the game started to roll, then he started to get more accustomed to the game as he did.
Q. How much does it mean for you guys when you see the offense get off to a fast start like they did today?
VERNON SCOTT: Man, it's a big boost. It's the same thing for us, as well. If we kick the ball off at the start of the game or we get a turnover or force a punt it gives them energy, so it just counteracts. We just rolled. We just had the momentum. If they get the momentum going, we've got to keep it rolling.
Q. They had some big plays on you guys, scored some touchdowns. Do you think you showed the fight that you guys wanted late in the game and making sure you finished?
VERNON SCOTT: Yeah, late in the game, that's what matters. We had made mistakes beforehand but we bounced back. We knew we had to get a stop or I knew that somebody had to make a play that last drive, and it just happened to be me.
Q. As a defensive player, what are your thoughts when you're watching Max just realizing that he's just a true freshman but he's making the kind of plays he's making to help you guys win today?
VERNON SCOTT: Man, we always say that on the sideline, like on the bench we just say, he's just a freshman doing this. Baylor game, last week they called him out but we thought he was in, but just that play for him to just stay up and have balance like that as a freshman and just running the ball like that, just so poised, and no telling what he has in the future.
Q. How has his leadership grown the last few weeks?
VERNON SCOTT: Man, Max has always been -- I want to say a Drew Brees type of guy, just a guy that leads, tough, hard-nosed. He's always been that since he came in. So he just leads the offense and makes plays.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT