NCAA MEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 31, 2000
Mike Kelley
Andy Kowske
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. For either player, your last three losses have come to Michigan State. That's got to
-- what does that say to you guys, got to create some seed of doubt?

ANDY KOWSKE: You know, yeah. I heard Coach talking, and, you know, there is some seeds
of doubt when you lose to a team three times in a row. It just shows us that we're going
to have to play extremely well to win this game. And we, you know, we know what Michigan
State's all about, and obviously being such a good team and losing three times, you know,
to win this next game is -- most people think is improbable. But I think, you know, we
just go out and play defense, that's our confidence right there, is our defense.

Q. Mike Kelley, how has the offense benefitted from the recent play of Bryant and
Vershaw, and how do you think that will impact your attack against Michigan State compared
to the first three games?

MIKE KELLEY: Well, if we can get them to continue to play the way they have been, it
will help us a lot. In previous games against Michigan State, we've struggled to score
against them. We've done a fairly decent job of executing defensively, but offensively we
haven't put up enough points to beat them. And so if we can continue to get Jon open, have
him hit the outside shot and have Mark work inside and outside to score some points, it
will take some pressure off us on the offensive end and hopefully get us going.

Q. This is for Andy. I wonder, you did outrebound them in that game at Lansing. I
wonder if you could talk about that. Coach has kind of joked that that was a fluke. Could
you also just talk about how important your rebounding individually and as a team will be
tomorrow?

ANDY KOWSKE: Well, as far as that second game goes, I remember the first game, they
outrebounded us something like 50 to 25. It was ridiculous. We were a little bit upset. We
worked all week leading up to that game, did a lot of rebounding drills. I think it helped
out. We came out with a lot of intensity. I think the front line was upset about what
happened in the first game. As far as individually with this game, I'm not out there to,
you know, pass or score many points. I'm basically a screener and a rebounder. I think
it's going to be very important for me to keep their guys off the boards and to help out
with us on the offensive boards.

Q. Andy, you said earlier this year that you have to play the perfect game to beat
these guys. Do you still believe that?

ANDY KOWSKE: I probably misquoted myself saying, "The perfect game." I don't
think there is a perfect game. (Laughter.) But, you know, I do think we're going to have
to play our best game. They're such a great team; they do everything well; they're so
gifted. And for us, we have to play, you know, our best game of the year by far to beat
them. But the perfect game, I don't think there is such a thing.

Q. This is for Mike. If you can talk about what impresses you about Mateen Cleaves,
particularly, and you have a knack for being able to get under opposing point guards'
skin. The times that you've played him, does he seem more unflappable than most players
you've gone against?

MIKE KELLEY: Well, I certainly don't think that I've ever gotten under his skin. When
you're an all-American point guard, you just stay focused on what your team needs and
yyou're not broken down easily. And so I don't expect for that to happen again. I think
what makes him so special as a point guard is his unselfishness and ability to set up his
other teammates. He's got an excellent game and certainly to average a lot of points if he
wanted to, but he understands what his team needs. There are times when he takes the
outside shot if he think that's necessary and there are times he's going to drive and kick
when he knows his team needs that. His ability to lead and understand what his team needs
is probably the most impressive quality about him.

Q. This is for both players. You guys are very familiar as a team with the kind of
streaks that Michigan State can rip off, the things they've used to win in the tournament
thus far. Can you first talk about how they got started in the three games with Wisconsin,
and what you might be able to do to try to temper those in this game?

ANDY KOWSKE: As far as, you know, the first few games, we haven't gotten off to the
best of starts. I think, you know, they come out, they play so hard and they're very
intense, and if you don't match that right away, they're going to get a quick lead on you.
And, you know, as far as their runs, you know, the big thing for us is to just stay in the
ball games. Because, you know, with the type of style we play, if we spot a team a big
lead, most of the time we're not going to come back. I think it's very important for us
to, you know, keep their runs at bay and hang with them the whole game. I think if we're
there at the end of the game, that's the way we're going to end the game. Stay with them,
not let them get a big lead. Usually they get those big leads off their run.
MIKE KELLEY: I agree. I think when they played us at the Kohl Center the first match
they got off to a real quick start and we just never got back into the game. I think the
reason that we stuck with them at their place is because we didn't let them have that huge
run. We kind of stuck with them for most of the game. And they also, they had a run in our
Big Ten Tournament game but we were able to come back from that and fire our way into the
game somewhat. If we can hold those at bay, if we can stop them from getting those runs,
it will certainly be in our favor.

Q. Andy, even though they have won three games against you guys this year, it seems as
though you guys have had your defining moments in the season against them, as far as the
big losses, you know, kind of bottomed out, then coming close to beating them afterward.
How will that affect your confidence in this game?

ANDY KOWSKE: You know, we have -- we have come back. We've had some defining moments
this year. Obviously, I think, you know, when we played at Iowa, coming back from the
half-time deficit, you know, it does -- it does give us confidence knowing that, you know,
we can go out there and just, you know, play our game, play defense, and go out there and
beat teams. We beat a lot of teams that are better than us. Like I said, we've lost to
them three times already this year, but we've shown that we can beat very physically
gifted teams and teams that have played well all year. Just knowing that, we're going to
go into this game with a little extra confidence.

Q. For both of you, the media, your coach and even you guys to some degree have
described your style as kind of ugly, the team as not being all that good. I mean is it
just self-deprecation or being level-headed, is that the way it is, is that the way you
guys really feel or is that just your way of not getting blown up about this whole thing?

MIKE KELLEY: Well, I think, you know, I love the way we play. I think it's beautiful to
be able to play basketball, you know, five guys and take on superior athletes with more
skill, you know, as far as athletically and be able to beat them. I don't know how you
can't enjoy that. But to the outside observer who isn't a part of our program, a part of
our team, I think it is viewed as ugly by many people. And so we have to understand that,
understand how we're, you know, looked upon by people around the country, and I think it
humbles us a little bit and it keeps us from, you know, maybe getting a big head.
ANDY KOWSKE: I think we're not -- when you go out there, at all five positions, the
other team is bigger, faster, stronger, more athletic, and you win the game, you know,
it's just kind of -- you got to love that. And we play the style of the game that we have
to play. There's no other way we can play. If we tried to run and gun, I mean everyone
would run right by us and we wouldn't get anything accomplished. Like Mike said, to the
outside observer, you know, they like to see the running, the dunking, with us you're not
going to see that. So obviously, you know, they're not going to like the way we play.

Q. This is for both players. Was it a difficult sell from Coach Bennett to come into a
program to play defense first, second, last?

ANDY KOWSKE: Well for me personally, it wasn't a difficult sell at all. I grew up in
Wisconsin, I saw him coach at UW-Green Bay, growing up I was a Marquette fan. I saw
Marquette beat Green Bay a couple times. I knew that playing his system you can win ball
games. It wasn't difficult at all to come in here and learn the style of defense. When he
recruits you, he tells you this is the way we're going play, this is the way I'm going to
teach it. For him to sell it to me, it wasn't hard at all.
MIKE KELLEY: I think I said yes before he could even offer the scholarship, get it out
of his mouth, I knew what he did at Green Bay, I knew what he was trying to do at
Wisconsin and I was certainly ready to come help him.

Q. For both players, your roster is made up of players all from small towns, nobody
really from a major city. How do you think that makes your team different than others,
perhaps maybe, you know, less tatoos than some other teams?

MIKE KELLEY: You know, you look at a lot of the guys and they're not big cities, but
everybody was sort of close. I mean I know I'm listed as Menomenee Falls but my parents
are divorced and my mother lives in Milwaukee, I went to high school in Milwaukee. Andy
and Jon Bryant in Plymouth -- is right outside of Minneapolis and he played in the city as
well. It's a misnomer to say we're all from small towns, we've had experience playing in
the city. I don't know, I guess that's it.
ANDY KOWSKE: We're just suburban kids.

Q. This is for Andy. If you could just talk about your point guard, his ability to
steal passes, his ability to seemingly make the most of what he's got and how many floor
burns have you counted for him over the course of time you've been with him?

ANDY KOWSKE: I don't count his floor burns, but I'm sure there's been quite a few.
Mike has the best reaction I've seen from any point guard. He's just so quick with his
hands. He sees things on the floor that I don't see. It's just amazing to just -- his --
he anticipates so well. And you put that all together in a point guard and you're going to
get a lot of steals. You know, he was Big Ten Defensive Player-of-the-Year last year. I
can't say enough about him. He's a great leader. If this team didn't have him, we wouldn't
be here.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT