NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 16, 2019
Oliver Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Moving to 8-under par, how happy are you with your play out there today?  
OLIVER WILSON: Delighted. I'll take that all the time out there. It's not easy. I played nice. Had a few breaks, but I played solid. I was in play all day. Hit a lot of greens. Kind of kept it relatively stress-free. Managed to execute the game plan quite well, yeah.   
 Q.  Second, third, fourth, fifth this year, been really consistent play from you. What's been the difference for to you find that in your career where you are now, great consistence, probably the best you've ever had.  
OLIVER WILSON: Yeah, it's been very consistent this year. My good golf is getting really good and showing what I can do in this game, but unfortunately the bad is not quite where I want it. It's getting there.   
As you said, the consistency is getting better, still working on a few bits, and all in all, it's all going in the right direction. Just continue trying to build on what I'm doing and play more tournaments where I'm getting into contention. Just continue building and doing what I'm doing and keep hitting fairways, really.   
 Q.  I was lucky enough to be alongside you when it was a little bit of a tough time, but then obviously that magnificent win, for me the best win I've ever seen on The European Tour when you won the Alfred Dunhill Links. You could make a Hollywood movie about your career. From when you first came on Tour, to where you are now and to have a chance to win again, what perspective has that journey, that roller coaster given you?  
OLIVER WILSON: It's been up and down. I've had extreme highs and extreme lows. Yeah, we played a lot of golf in the down times and I remember a few rounds where we both walked off and no words were needed. We just looked at each other and said see you tomorrow.   
I guess that gives you perspective. I have a little boy now, he's coming up on two, and when you've been doing it out here for 15 years now and you have family, you realize golf is really not that important, and it's something you do. I love the challenge of trying to get better and seeing how far I can go and trying to improve all the time but at the end of the day, it's a game and there's way more important things out there.   
So relationships, friends, family, look after the people around you, work hard, enjoy yourself more than probably did when I was playing well, and yeah, just enjoy the good times, because you never know when you finish. We're very, very fortunate to be able to travel around the world and play amazing tournaments and come to places like this, which is as good as it gets.   
I think after 15 years on Tour, we don't appreciate it -- a lot of us say we do but I don't think we do. It's still a phenomenal thing that we get to do, so I just try to appreciate it and keep working hard.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT