UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 22, 2008
Oliver Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS: Thanks very much for coming in and joining us, one-shot lead into the final round, you're obviously playing very well at the moment. 
 OLIVER WILSON: Yeah, obviously very happy with today. It's tricky out there, you never know, that front nine is quite tough. Our group, we didn't really do much on the first few holes. Didn't really get off to the best of starts. 
 So you feel like you're sort of losing ground all the time around here, so you've just got to be patient. I managed to do that pretty well. 
 Yeah, but everything is in good shape. I putted well again today. So if I can keep that one warm tomorrow, then we should be in good shape. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: And you have yourself in position for another challenge on Sunday.
 OLIVER WILSON: Yeah, exactly. Looking forward to going out there and see what happens, really. Like I keep saying, if I can keep getting up there, I'll break through eventually, but each time I'm getting up there, I'm learning something. But see what happens.
 It's important tomorrow to try not to think about winning and all that. There's a bit of a logjam really at the top of the leaderboard. I didn't look exactly, but there's a lot of people within one, two, three shots. And it's the type of course where if you get hot, you can really take it deep. It needs a good round, but hopefully I'll keep doing what I'm doing and it will be enough. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: One name stands out among the leaders, Bernhard Langer; what do you think of seeing him up there? 
 OLIVER WILSON: I was talking to my caddie actually this week. It's a great course for him. I fancied him to do well. I don't know how much he's been playing but he's not going to give shots away. That's what this course is about really, not giving silly shots away, not getting frustrated, and Bernhard is probably one of the best players ever to deal with stuff like that.
 It's not a long course. It's about thinking your way around and positioning and hitting a lot of greens and giving yourself chances. He's obviously holed a lot of putts the last couple of days, as well. He's going to be dangerous and he knows how to win. 

 Q. There have been many Spaniards before winning this tournament; are you especially worried about Larrazábal?
 OLIVER WILSON: No, not particularly. He's a great player. Pablo is dangerous, as with all of the Spanish players; when they play well, they just keep going. They don't really back off. You could say a case like that for every player. But I can't look at what's going on behind me. I'm just going to concentrate on me and try to win the battle, and like I say, hopefully it will be enough. 

 Q. You said yesterday that maybe you needed a bit of a break, and what you needed was a bit of luck in putting two or three strokes between yourself and the field. There are still two people close, but I think compared to yesterday when 20 were within four strokes, now there's only seven; do you think you might have done it this time? What do you think you might have to shoot to win? 
 OLIVER WILSON: You are definitely right. I just need a little bit of luck here and there. You see some people win, and they get a bit of good fortune. That has not happened to me yet. 
 But if I can keep putting myself in position, if somebody does make a mistake or I get a bit of luck, I'll be right there. Obviously I want to try to get ahead of the field and win it and get a bit of a lead, and it was important today to do that, to at least come out on top. 
 Got off to a slow start, but I knew, stay patient, play well and keep on doing what I was doing, and I made a few birdies. I knew where I was roughly, I knew I was in the lead or tied. I thought with three holes to go, I was trying to pick up two; if I could have got two, I would have been really happy. 
 But the birdie on 17, I hit a great shot in. I was a bit disappointed how far it left me to be honest but I made a great putt, and that was nice. I was trying to make birdie at the last. I didn't want to play too defensive is hit it to the middle of the green and 2-putt but it's a tough pin up the last. I managed to get one shot ahead and they all count, coming down to the last day, every shot is a big shot. 
 It would have been nice to be a few more ahead, but I'm in the right position.

 Q. Have you got a target for tomorrow, or would you rather not say?
 OLIVER WILSON: Not really. At the moment I haven't really thought about it. I thought at the beginning of the week, after the first round, at least, I thought a round of 15 or 16 would be enough. But if the weather is like it is -- if it's like today, tomorrow, I think it might need a little more than that. 
 If I can shoot four or knife under again tomorrow, it's going to mean that those guys are going to have to play really well. And on Sunday, it's not always easy. Just go out there and keep trying to do what I'm doing and hopefully it will be enough.
 I might have to force it a little coming down the stretch but I feel like I'm capable of doing that. I'm going to go after it if I need to, and we'll just see. It all depends. Hopefully it doesn't get to that stage, but I've just got to forget about it. I can go out and shoot 8-under tomorrow and still lose. It's that kind of course. All I can do is worry about me. 

 Q. Do you think you might feel pressure being paired with more experienced players tomorrow?
 OLIVER WILSON: Not really, no. I think I'm in form, everything is going well, and there's no reason for me to doubt myself. I'm probably in the best form of anyone here this week, so that's got to give me a lot of confidence. 
 I've got to maybe look at that and take more confidence from that, as sometimes I tend not to do that and get down on myself a little bit; when if you just back away and look at the big picture, things are going pretty well and I've got to do that. 
 Obviously I think I'll be playing with Bernhard. I've never played with him before, and I'm really looking forward to seeing what he does out there, and maybe I can learn a little bit out there. 
 But yeah, I'm not going to put anymore pressure on myself. All I can do is go out and try to play good golf. 

 Q. Today you seemed so in control of your game, except for the first, it was as if par was never -- you were never even under threat of doing anything worse than par the whole round. 
 OLIVER WILSON: Yeah, I felt good today. I was determined -- last night I went back and thought about a few things, and winning was coming into my head a little bit too much. Coming in here, everyone is always bringing winning up, and even the crowd a couple of comments you hear, I was hitting a couple of putts before I teed off and they talked about me coming so close and winning. It's everywhere, and I need to try to get away from that. 
 So I was determined to go out there today and just have fun and be confident. I'm guilty of being a bit too dependent on my swing, and if my swing is not quite right, I lose confidence; where it's ridiculous, really. My short game is fantastic. Everything else is in good shape. There's no reason I should lose confidence. So I went out there today really trying to not really care less about my golf swing; just commit to hitting shots and if they don't come off, they don't come off. But just stay patient and relaxed. 
 I worked more on the mental side today. I really tried to enjoy it, and it worked. I had quite a lot of fun out there, which for me I don't really enjoy it much out there. I do enjoy it, but you're trying to win the tournament, as well, at the same time. I did actually really enjoy it. And playing with Louis helped. Louis is a great guy and I enjoyed his company. It was great fun and I'm going to try to do the same thing again tomorrow. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS: Ollie, thanks very much indeed. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT