HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 10, 2008
Oliver Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously disappointed, I can understand that, but your thoughts? 
 OLIVER WILSON: Don't know. Disappointed. Felt good before the week. Felt like I would be up here somewhere in this kind of position, and I've played -- I didn't play great today. I played all right. Made some good, clutch putts on the back nine but I didn't really have a lot of confidence in my swing, which is my own fault, but wasn't that bad. 
 You know, I didn't quite know the position coming down the stretch. I knew I was right in there and didn't hit great shots on 17 and 18 but made some big putts and a couple of birdies coming in. That was good. Got into the playoff. It was a great 2-putt. Tough pin, though. Tough to get close. 
 You know, the playoff was not a bad result, after the end of the day, hit two good shots in. Didn't hit a great putt the first time. Then hit a great -- I can't believe it missed. Sergio's earlier was drifting across the hole and that one just stopped drifting. Thought I got it. Sergio played great and that's why he was up there, and didn't really miss a shot. That was a great shot he hit in there, and made a great putt. So congratulations for him, but obviously I'm disappointed.

 Q. The fact that you were up there in a world-class field, and more than holding your own, following on from your Ryder Cup debut, must be a great thing for your own career. 
 OLIVER WILSON: It is. It's just getting to a stage where second is not good enough anymore. There was a time when I was pleased to be finishing there, and it's gone, and it's about time I took my chance. 
 I felt good, felt good about it and felt like this was the one again, and you know, I hit a great putt there. I hit good shots in. 
 It's going to happen. It's just whoever is in control, I guess it's just me, but I'm making it hard on myself. It will be worth it when I finally get one. It's not going to be easy. It's not going to be given to me. I think Sergio made birdie on the last to get into the playoff. Fair play. When you're playing against quality players like this week, you're not going to be able to just coast on in. You're going to have to win it and go and do it. 
 I just didn't done that yet, but the more practise I get, the closer I'll get. 

 Q. Five or six years ago, we were speaking to Padraig Harrington and lamenting his second places, and looking where he is in the world now; you're still a young plan, plenty of time for you to follow in those footsteps. 
 OLIVER WILSON: Totally. It's an ongoing process. I'll keep improving; on that positive note, it's a great start to the season. 
 You know, just hopefully I can follow that up in Hong Kong, my next European Tour event, and I've got Singapore next week. I've got a few more events, a couple more chances and game is in good shape.

 Q. From a European Tour perspective, a nice start to The Race to Dubai and the 2009 schedule, and you're right in there looking ahead to next year?
 OLIVER WILSON: That's the great thing about this tournament. It gives you a nice start. Normally I go traipsing all over the world to the good events, but it's hard. It's a lot of travel at the end of the season. 
 But to come here and make it really worth my while, it's a great start to the season. I think that should hopefully secure my Masters spot. I don't know what it will do for me, but it's got to help big time and put me in a strong position which would be nice. That's one of the goals for this season. 
 There's a lot of positives and they will keep creeping in as time goes on this afternoon, but it's still disappointing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT