ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2013
Oliver Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Looks like perfect conditions and you took full advantage. 
OLIVER WILSON:   Yeah, I didn't see this weather coming yesterday, but it was perfect.   It was a different wind today add Kingsbarns, so not really used to that wind.   It played pretty easy to be fair. 
I played really nice.   Left a few out there, especially on the front nine but I played really solid and took advantage of it.   You had to; halfway around, I was 2‑under and thinking, well, I've really got to pick up on the back, because you never know what's going to be around the corner tomorrow, and we are at Carnoustie on Saturday, so it could be tough.   So you have to take advantage when you get weather like this and fortunately I did. 

Q.   Knowing that you have to make birdie is one thing, but actually doing it is quite a another, isn't it. 
OLIVER WILSON:   It's easy, but you still have to hit the shots and hole the putts.   That's the way it is, yeah. 
But I was playing well; I got off to a good start, which was nice.   Hit it to three feet on the 11th, my second hole, which kind of gets you under par early, and you're in good shape then.   So I was able to capitalise on that and sort of settles you down.   It's not easy when it's easy, and if you make an early bogey, then you really feel like you are behind the 8‑ball and you feel like you have a lot to do.
Hit a lot of good iron shots.   Had a lot of chances, only missed one green, no bogey, so it was a really solid round of golf.

Q.   Course looks in great nick; must have been a joy to play. 
OLIVER WILSON:   Yeah, it is.   Kingsbarns on a day like this is perfect, doesn't get much better.   The guys I played with are great.   Unfortunately Cambo had to go in, he was injured, but Allen came out, fill in and we had a good time out there.   It was fun.   Everyone played nicely and perfect conditions on a beautiful golf course, doesn't get much better.

Q.   You've had some decent results on The Challenge Tour lately.   Rebuilding your confidence and getting back to where you were?
OLIVER WILSON:   I'm playing a lot better.   For the first time in probably over a year actually, have some control over my shots and able to hit the shots and trust it under pressure, as well.   I'm driving the ball way, way better, which is essentially the thing that has been‑‑ disappeared.   I wasn't able to get it in play.   Wasn't able to get it on fairways, and any wind, I was really in trouble. 
So that's going back.   And it's nice to come around‑‑ couldn't get into this, so it nice of Dunhill and Johann to give me an invite to this event, because it's going to be a great test.   Especially at Carnoustie and St. Andrews, you're going to really have to stand up and hit some tee shots.   You don't really get that on The Challenge Tour.   It's pretty easy courses most of the time. 
We've played some good courses last few weeks on Challenge Tour and I've played well, and that's built my confidence and have a chance to get my card at the end of the year a few various ways and obviously there is a chance this week, as well.
Just have to keep playing well.   Wherever I play, if I play well, it's only a matter of time before I get to I where want to get to, so that's the most important thing.   But the game is improving all the time and everything's settled down and moving in the right direction.   It's nice.   It's been a while. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT