PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2012
Matt Dobyns
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I don't know much about the particulars, but I do know that this wasn't a good start at all.   Was it the driver more than anything today or what?  
MATT DOBYNS:   Yeah, it wasn't at all what I'm used to, to be able to have angles into greens to have birdie putts.   I lost control of my tee shot today, and if you do that here, generous off the tee to a certain point, but if you hit it off line where I was hitting it, it basically becomes impossible to shoot a certain score.  
   
 Q.   A couple holes you were unable to recover in any way today?  
MATT DOBYNS:   I felt like I kind of hung in there, and then I got to 17 and I hit the wrong club.   As a result I made a double.   Doubles kill you in tournament golf.   This is a place where you can make some bogeys and get by, but no matter how tough a golf course is, if you make a double, it's going to be an uphill battle, and really when I did that, it kind of got away from me there.   The round went from being a round I could salvage to one that just kind of got out of hand.   
You know, I played a little better on the back and started to get control, and as a result I had a little better back nine.   Try to build on it tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How was your practice round getting here?  
MATT DOBYNS:   Oh, the practice rounds were great.   I shot nothing on the practice rounds.   But the practice rounds aren't the real thing.   You know, you never really know what to expect on the first tee of a major until you do it, and I had never done it before.   Certainly I was a bit overwhelmed.   It got me out of my rhythm.   It got me out of my process and my routine, and the results showed.  
   
 Q.   Just a few butterflies here and there?  
MATT DOBYNS:   Oh, butterflies all the way around, really, but more than that, I just let the outside agents, all these things that go along with playing a major get me out of what I normally do and got me out of my whole process, my whole routine, how I chose targets, how I chose clubs and things like that.   And when that happens, when you miss it, it's going to be tough.   
   
 Q.   Tomorrow you can say it's a new day?  
MATT DOBYNS:   It's a new day.   I need to shoot about a 62 to make the cut.   We'll see what happens.   But nonetheless, the experience was still a valuable one for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT