U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR PUBLIC LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2012
Ashlan Ramsey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RHONDA GLENN:   Ashlan, how do you feel about the match and how you played, just in general terms? 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   I felt like I played pretty solid today, just again couldn't make very many putts.   But Kyung played really well, and I felt solid all day, just couldn't really get any momentum going.   She made a few long putts. 
RHONDA GLENN:   I have you for eight birdies. 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Oh, wow, yeah.   Kyung obviously played better than me, but I think the difference was she made more putts than I did.   But I felt pretty solid with my game.   Pretty confident all day.
RHONDA GLENN:   I have a couple of clubs to ask you about and then we'll go to questions.   On the 6th hole this afternoon, the birdie 2, do you remember what club you hit? 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   I hit a 6‑iron.
RHONDA GLENN:   And on the 10th hole you made a birdie 3 this afternoon. 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   I hit a 50‑degree. 
RHONDA GLENN:   Where do you go from here? 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Well, next week I have the Rolex Tournament of Champions, and I feel like I'm playing pretty solid, so we'll see what happens there.   Hopefully I can continue playing well and hopefully get a win.

Q.   Where is that? 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   It's in Atlanta at Crabapple. 

Q.   How did the course change today?   Were the greens running faster today than they were earlier this week? 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   I felt like they were a little bit faster today than they were two days ago, but pretty similar as far as yesterday.   The wind direction shifted today, so it was different than we had played it. 

Q.   It was from the north today? 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Yeah, so obviously that was different.   I had a little bit longer into some holes and had to take shorter clubs off the tees on some of the other holes. 
But overall I think it was pretty similar, just the wind. 

Q.   It's been a long week in hot conditions.   Was it tiring out there today for you two? 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   A little bit, but I feel like‑‑ I don't know, it didn't really bother me as much as I thought it would.   I got a little bit tired, but the wanting to win kind of overrides the tiredness.   I mean, now I'm tired now that I'm thinking about it, but on the course I wasn't really thinking about it. 

Q.   Going into your morning round, you were 1‑over the first three holes and went 1‑down.   Talk about that. 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Yeah, it actually took me a while to settle in this morning.   I was a little bit rushed coming to the court and just didn't really have that great of a warm‑up.   So it took me three holes, I guess, to find my game and get settled in and not be nervous and just play how I had been playing. 

Q.   Why did you rush?   What happened? 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   I'm not going to blame people, but my mom was a little late this morning packing.   You know, she was like 15 minutes late from the hotel, so I was like 15 minutes late.

Q.   So you had to check out of the hotel this morning?
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Yeah (laughing). 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Yeah, it didn't make me happy, but obviously I know she's a good player, and that's going to happen.   I was kind of expecting her to make a lot of birdies because I knew she had earlier in the week.   She made some really great putts.   It was good for her. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   It only felt like that when on 16 when I didn't hit the green.   I thought the wind would take it left because I had been kind of pulling it a little bit on the holes before.   I missed the green there.   And then I had a really good lie so I felt positive again so I tried chip in because I had been chipping really well, and obviously I didn't chip in.
Yeah, I felt like I could get it back until I hit that chip. 

Q.   When you started off in the afternoon, you seemed to be playing a little harder, a little faster the first few holes kind of like this morning, a little shaky the first few holes.   Were you still nervous?   You were one hole down starting out on No.1 this afternoon. 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   I think I was more anxious to get it back than I was nervous.   I wasn't really nervous except for like the first hole this morning.   But yeah, I mean, I was just more anxious to play well and make some birdies. 

Q.   And then you started with a nice little pace there on the 4th hole this afternoon. 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Yeah, I guess the break kind of didn't help me very much.   But yeah, I felt like I got back into it on No.4 and started playing my game. 

Q.   What's the week mean to you, getting as far as you did?   I'm just curious, from a confidence standpoint or whatnot, what's it mean to have gotten this far? 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   I've been playing really well coming into this weekend.   I knew what I was capable of, it was just kind of proving myself and proving that I'm capable of finishing well.   You know, last week at Rolex Girls I had one bad round, and at Thunderbird I had one bad round, so it was just that one bad day that was keeping me from finishing well, and this week I didn't really have a bad day, I just had a few bad holes or a bad shot here and there. 
Obviously I have some more tournaments this summer, so I'm just going to take the positives from this week.   But I've been hitting ball well, I've been playing well, I've been consistent.   I'm just going to be patient and try to play the same this summer. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   I won the Sea Pines Juniors.   That was the end of February.   I won the Georgia sectional PGA event to get into the Junior PGA, and that was three or four months ago. 

Q.   What did feel like playing in the finals of the USGA Women's? 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Well, it didn't really sink in until I was on the green on No.1, and then I was like, okay, I'm playing for the finals here.   But I didn't really change anything, which I think was good.   It just took me a little while to get comfortable this morning and then this afternoon the first few holes. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Well, I won it before, but I wore red, white and blue on the last day, so red, white and blue is my thing, yeah. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Thunderbird last year, so over a year ago.   It's patriotic and I like red, white and blue, obviously representing America.   There aren't many Americans left.   I'm one of the only ones lately. 

Q.   When was Thunderbird? 
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   End of May. 

Q.   Was that AJGA?
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Yeah.

Q.   Do you have family in the military at all?
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   My dad was in the Army, but I don't have any now. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
ASHLAN RAMSEY:   Not in terms of how I'm capable of playing.   I knew I could make some birdies, and I wanted to try to limit my mistakes more than I have in the past few tournaments.   But it was definitely a confidence boost to make it to the finals and beat some of the really good players that I beat this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT