MLB WINTER MEETINGS
December 5, 2006
Bob Geren
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BOB GEREN:  What do you want to talk about?   
  
  Q.  Do you find yourself in your spare time writing down various lineups that --   
BOB GEREN:  Not really, because I know the team's not finished yet.  And it's 85 days till spring training.   
  
  Q.  Is that what it is?   
 BOB GEREN:  I don't know.  I heard it on the radio maybe it was 78, 87, something like that.   
  
  Q.  You're not counting?   
 BOB GEREN:  Oh no, I'm very excited about getting to work, but, you know, I know the team is not building -- very similar to you guys, it is kind of wait and see.   
  
  Q.  Bob, you said that maybe after your interview or someone passed that as the bench coach, you learned so much about things that you wouldn't, you know, you learn how to do certain things and you learn how you might not do certain things.  Um, without -- can you expand on that a little bit and --   
 BOB GEREN:  Well, every person's different, every personality's different as far as management and coaches and I see -- I have a different perspective of the team, the bullpen coach and hearing, you know, what, you know, relievers tend to look for as far as the coaches or manager, personal situation, how they like.  So you learn a lot down in the bullpen, 'cause you're kind of away from the game.   
 It's a little more relaxed environment, you know, you really -- when our starters were just flowing through the first few innings, it was pretty relaxed down there so you talk about different subjects, get to learn the players a little bit.   
 Now, on the bench it is much different where you're right next to the manager and you're -- every pitch, you actually have a duty, so you learn different things as far as the pace of the game, kind of the -- the mood of the team, trying to kind of see where you're in the situation where they might need a little energy or you might need to, you know, have calmed down.  There are different situations that come up.  Every part of the game you learn something from.  I do anyway, I try to learn wherever I can from whoever I can, I learned a lot from Kenny Lacheman, Ron Washington, I mean you just give things up -- everybody does something well or they wouldn't be there.  So you try to pick up anything you can from them.  A very long answer, I'm sorry.   
  
  Q.  No, has it sunk in that you're the manager?   
 BOB GEREN:  It has here, you know?   
  
  Q.  You seem giddy almost.   
 BOB GEREN:  No I'm -- that's the way I normally am.  I'm just a pretty happy person in general.  Honestly.   
  
  Q.  O, I believe you.   
 BOB GEREN:  Yeah, I have been in baseball since I was 17 and I've loved every minute of it and I've had every kind of experience you could think of so far.  Now, counting this, I guess every experience, really.  Minor league player, you know, minor league manager.  Minor league -- major league player, now a major league manager.   
  
  Q.  What do you mean it's sunk in here, the   winter meetings?   
 BOB GEREN:  No.  Just with -- with, you know, I have just kind of a close circle of friends and family that, you know, shared this with me so far.  And then now in the baseball world, where I've seen guys that I've, you know, the type of people that you see once a year, here and there, guys maybe even Ken Schnacke from the Columbus Clippers when I played there in the '80s, to the River Cat people to the general manager of Modesto when I managed, people I don't see very often.  People come in and say congratulations, seeing other managers.  Last night, I was standing there with John Gibbons and Ron Washington and Fredi Gonzalez, we were all in a circle thinking that's when it sunk in, like --   
Q  Who were you with, Wash and who else?  Gibbons?   
BOB GEREN:  A bunch of people throughout the   night.   
  
  Q.  Oh, okay.   
 BOB GEREN:  At one point, I was standing there with Ron Washington and John Gibbons and Fredi Gonzalez and Manny Acta came in and most of us are new, you know, as first year managers, but just standing there and you asked, like, has it sunk in?  That's when it sunk in.  You're saying, okay, I'm one of these 30 now.  Pretty amazing.   
  
  Q.  When you saw Tony La Russa, are you guys that said I want to take the title away from you?   
 BOB GEREN:  Take the what?   
  
  Q.  The title away from him.   
 BOB GEREN:  That was quite a career he's had.  Yeah.  In fact, I just try to learn from Tony.  He could teach me.  We've actually had breakfast last week and talked about baseball.  And I think to gain anything you know from somebody like that, that's wonderful that I could even have time with him.  That was a great experience.   
  
  Q.  What is the first thing he told you?   
 BOB GEREN:  Good morning.  We met somewhere and he's like, okay.  We were both kind of funny.  We met somewhere, we were both about five minutes late because of traffic.  And he's like, okay, I thought I was going to be late and I thought I was going to be late.   
  
  Q.  Was that at Opal?   
 BOB GEREN:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  What is the first question you asked him about managing, outside of how are you?   
 BOB GEREN:  I don't remember.  I really don't remember the first thing we talked about.  No.   
  
  Q.  Is there anything you came out of there coming out -- anything he told you came out thinking, gee, I have got to do that, I wish I thought of that?  Is a good thing to think about?   
 BOB GEREN:  There's so many it, would be a hard one to answer.  One this ting that stood out was he -- he had said, you know, to constantly work ahead of the game so the game doesn't drive -- doesn't get up on you too quick.   
 You know, he said he recommends kind of a phrase of "what if" and using that in your normal thinking.  And so kind of soaked in.  I said I understand what he means by that, you know?  Somebody's doing okay, and not what if a homer now would than enough or what if this guy gets on base, what would you do next?  And he said that that is a great way to stay ahead of the game.  And I found that I would do that in the minor leagues, but to that extent, we're you know -- it's constantly on there.   
 And I know it's a bench coach, getting back your question of the bench coach, that's one thing I did notice is the game is quick at this level.  It happens fast.  So, you have to stay ahead.   
  
  Q.  Where were you when you found out you were going to be manager?  Where were you when you found out you were offered the job?   
 BOB GEREN:  I was actually at my son's baseball game.   
  
  Q.  Called you on your cell?   
 BOB GEREN:  Yeah.  Yep.  We were --   
  Q.  Call time out of the game?   
 BOB GEREN: Well, no.  It was like an indoor batting facility where the kids were working out, and the first thing he says "Where are you," you could hear your bats clung, actually the kids, you could barely hear the -- so I walked outside.  So, I think my kids thought it was weird, so I walked out.  I don't usually do that; must have thought it was important.   
  
  Q.  What is the first thing you said to your kid?   
 BOB GEREN:  I didn't even tell him that night.  I really didn't, because I thought that I wanted to wait and -- till the morning, 'cause there was going to be a press conference and everything.  I wanted them to kind of, like, see it.   
  
  Q.  That's when you accepted the job, when he offered you the job?  You accepted on the spot?   
 BOB GEREN:  Oh, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Well, he could have --   
 BOB GEREN:  That was a good question.  No.  No.  That's a fair question.  Well, the interview process took a long time, so I had a lot of time to think about if it was me, you know, what would it be like and would it be like for my family and -- so I had plenty of time to think about it.   
  
  Q.  How surprised were you by some of the comments that came out after Ken was let go?  I mean, were you kind of aware of some of the players on the team were a little bit unhappy with him?  Did it catch you by surprise?   
 BOB GEREN: A little bit, but I didn't -- I didn't read a lot of the -- I mean, no offense, but I really didn't read a lot of the press clippings throughout the course of the year.  You get focused on what you're doing, and I actually didn't even see that until the morning of the dismissal last year.  That's the first time I heard -- I didn't even see it, actually.  Somebody called me on the phone, all the coaches were going in that day to kind of meet.   
  
  Q.  The reason I ask is because as a manager, obviously, that's your job, to kind of gauge the mood where everybody is on this team.   
 BOB GEREN:  Right.   
  
  Q.  And obviously, I think it took Macha by surprise, clearly, and I wanted to find out, you know, how aware you need to be of how everybody's feelings.  You consider that one of your primary responsibilities is the kind of -- to put that disconnect back into a connect --   
 BOB GEREN: Yes.   
  
  Q.  -- so to speak?   
 BOB GEREN:  Yeah.  I think that staying in touch with -- with the team and the players is important.  And you will -- all I could go by is my past experience with teams, that's kind of -- I would say that's one of my stronger parts of me is that I genuinely care about people and players and I -- I'm around them a lot.  I know this is going to be different because my time constraints are going to be different, but make time for that.   
  
  Q.  You say you are really a happy guy, that is your personality.  What really makes you angry?   
 BOB GEREN:  I have to think about that one.  I don't get angry very often.  Honestly, I don't.  It's not worth it.  It's not worth it.  I have short bursts occasionally.   
  
  Q.  How many games have you been thrown out of?   
 BOB GEREN:  I don't keep a record of that.  Occasionally.   
  
  Q.  Occasionally?   
 BOB GEREN:  Yeah.  Honestly, I don't think that at the major league level it would happen all that often, the umpiring is so good.  The minor leagues, occasionally you get thrown out of a game.  It is usually because you'd ask them to do something, they wouldn't do it.  You know, for example, like you'd say, you know, I had a better angle.   
 You asked him, they might say -- this is just a hypothetical, not going to ask him it is my call.  I'd say, well, if you ask him, you know, then I'll walk off the field.  Here, it is over.  That's all you do.  I'm not asking him.  You will end up staying out there, if you're leaving, getting thrown out.  If you don't ask him, I'm not leaving.  That's usually -- it's not usually personal and that's happened like that.  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Are you a rules guy?  Do you have a lot of rules?   
 BOB GEREN:  No.  No.   
  
  Q.  No?   
 BOB GEREN:  Our team has always been, since I've been here four years, is they don't have a lot of rules, as far as how high you wear your pants and the haircut, you know, different rules of the organization that have been and have.  And that's okay.  But they just kind of play hard, play the game right, conduct yourself like a professional.   
 I mean, they all kind of go into one rule, really: Just be a professional.  And we have had little to no problems since I've been here.   
 I mean, the guys, they get their work in, they have a good spring training, they have good personal work habits and they come to play every night.  And actually, very fortunate to inherit a team like that.   
  
  Q.  Talking about the guys that you had -- the Acta and those other guys, first-year managers, taking over probably teams that -- there's a reason they are taking over teams; it is not because they are championship teams.  Do you feel yourself very fortunate to be taking over a team that won the division, almost got the World Series?   
 BOB GEREN:  Yes.  No doubt.  I mean -- I mean, we have basically the same team coming back.  There will be a few pieces like Frank and possibly Barry, obviously, missing.  So, it's not exactly the same team, but it is -- yeah, very fortunate.  A lot of people sense that actually.   
 A lot of people take over for a rebuilding club, and you have a long way to go.  You guys are right there in the thick of it and very fortunate to have that.   
  
  Q.  How do you -- how will you survive in the rotation of the team without Zito?   
 BOB GEREN:  Well, you know, somebody asked me that earlier, John and Rich didn't pitch all that much last year really.  So, I mean, realistically, if you could -- if you could replace Barry with Rich, you have a pretty comparable staff, you know?  It's pretty much the same staff, both - pitchers.   
 So, being that it's still December, I would say that that would be my short answer to it, unless something else changes.   
  
  Q.  Would you say you've been congratulated hundreds of times in the last -- since you've been here?   
 BOB GEREN:  I know about hundreds.   
  
  Q.  Thousands?  I mean, a lot of handshakes?   
 BOB GEREN:  Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Are you saying it hit you when you were in that circle of coaches, circle of managers last night?   
 BOB GEREN: It has hit me a few different times, but that time it was like -- this is -- you know, and they are all guys, really, my age that are, you know, either first year or relatively new.  I wasn't surrounded by, you know, Tony La Russa and Bobby Cox, things like that.  They were all -- they were all, you know, relatively younger, inexperienced or less experienced, I should say.   
  
  Q.  What was that flight then coming over here?  We were on the same plane just coming over the flight, and thinking "I'm coming to the winter meetings; my first time as a major league manager."  Were a lot of things kicking around in your head at that point?   
 BOB GEREN: Yeah.  I sat next to a guy I have huge respect for is Karl Kuehl, actually getting a lifetime achievement award today for his work in baseball, written books, "Mental Toughness" and baseball things, and ran really the A's system for many years.   
 I didn't spend a lot of times thinking about the meetings.  I was trying to learn as much baseball as I can from him from a guy I consider a legend.  It was awesome and he was tremendous.  He had some great advice, real good advice.   
  
  Q.  What did he tell you?   
 BOB GEREN:  Um, you know, well, we talked about some of the coaches I've already hired that he, you know, he respected.  And he also -- one thing he said was that the job is gonna be so like -- you are going to dive into it so deep, that to make sure that you had some -- some time for other things, to try to stay balanced, because it would be best for you personally and for your family and stuff to -- like you talk about, go to the kid's basketball practice or something, take your mind away from once in a while.  And I think that's a good point, because it has always helped me in the past, and now everything is going to be on a bigger scale now.   
  
  Q.  Do you have any hobbies?   
 BOB GEREN:  I have a million hobbies.  Yes, I'm a leisure sport man.  I like to do a lot of things.  Gee, I have -- I do a lot.  You want to hear all of them?   
  
  Q.  How's the typing going?   
 BOB GEREN:  Yeah, I'm wearing out the type writer.  I do just about every sport.  I love to ski, water ski, wake board, golf, surf.  I used to live in San Diego.  That's been tough.  I always find something to do, bowling, everything.  We -- have always had a good time.   
 Getting to the bench coach, used to have a good time, Bob Schaeffer is going to be our bench coach, and he was the farm director for the Red Sox when I worked there.  He actually gave me my first chance to manager and he was a super guy.   
 Ken Macha worked for him, DeMarlo Hale, who is with Boston now, a lot of good baseball people working under him.   
  
  Q.  How much do you'll think you'll lean on him in this first year?   
 BOB GEREN:  Depends on what area --   
  Q.  Or any of the other coaches even?   
 BOB GEREN:  Well, I talked to -- I'll use all of my coaches to -- I don't think that the title is gonna make any difference to them, you know?  You know, because if you're the first base coach, the third base coach or bench coach, if there's an area that I have a question or ask for a suggestion, it is not gonna be the title next to their names, going to make no difference to me.  They are all important.   
  
  Q.  You are a guy who relies a lot on their input?   
 BOB GEREN:  I like to -- I like to hear a lot of input, yes.  I don't necessarily say I rely on it to run a game or anything, but if I'm pondering a lineup change or a -- somebody switching the order or maybe a role in the bullpen changing, something like that, I might talk to everybody and just get all their opinions.  And, obviously, I have to make the final decision on -- on that, but I love people that have something to offer.   
 And I mean as a coach, I've been a manager and a coach, and when a manager would ask me a question, it was like it felt like almost an honor, this is my opinion, and if he uses it, great; if he doesn't, then at least I was told him what I thought.  So --   
Q  Bob, what about getting ready, planning for spring training?  Is that something you do or is that something you give to your coaches?  And if so, how is it different?  What's --   
 BOB GEREN:  Well, I've had a pretty good format that we've used the last about eight years in a row, and been very organized.  We use the entire complex and everything.  And the way we run spring training in the past, I've kept all the paperwork from year to year, and Brad Fischer has all of it, and he's kind of been in charge the last few years.   
 So, I would -- I'm going to meet with Bob Schaffer and show him what we've done the last few years and ask if he thinks there's anything he would do different or suggestions to make it better, but overall, I'm very happy with the way it's been done.   
  
  Q.  You're preparing for the job.  I know a lot of things -- in preparation for this job, do you do simple things like maybe I should go over the rule book again and read the rule book?   
 BOB GEREN: I went to sleep last night reading it, to be honest with you.   
  
  Q.  No.  Really?   
 BOB GEREN:  Yeah.  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  How far did you get?   
 BOB GEREN:  I've been reading like -- I was on the section last night about the batted ball hitting the runner and before an infielder, after an infielder.  It's something that I don't think you could read that enough.   
 It's not even the rule book I was reading; it was another one called "Make the Right Call."  It was a book off the rule book that gets more in depth.  You know, Rene Lachemann, you know, he knows the rule book outstanding.  I think I know it pretty well.  I think that Bob Schaffer will know it real well, but it's something that -- and you know the thing about the major league umpires, they know it real well.  Very seldom does something come up, but very nice to refresh yourself on that.   
 That's funny you asked that.  I was reading it last night.  I had it in my bag, and I was going to read it on the plane, but I started talking to Karl the whole time.  I was like, "Oh, I'll read it on the way back."  So, I get to my room last night, my feet were tired from standing up, so I thought I'll watch a little bit of TV and go to sleep, and there's no remote in my room.  Oh, I'm going to read the book, 'cause once I get that on and -- I'm not gonna want to get back up and turn off.  So, I went with the book.   
  
  Q.  No remote?   
 BOB GEREN: I called.  They sent me one today.  No problem.   
  
  Q.  Have you thought about, first of all, how -- having some of these guys healthy next year, I mean, even Eric Chavez playing through?   
 BOB GEREN:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  Rich, Bobby, and how do you keep these A's from having a slow start?   
 BOB GEREN:  Well that's a good question.  That's something that I don't think anybody has a secret answer to that, because the last years, we've always been mediocre in the first half and a strong second half.  And we're adding one more day to spring training for the pitchers and catchers.   
 No, but that -- you though that sounds funny, but Billy had approached me with it, and I talked with, you know, Mickey who does it all, and "What do you think about it"?  And I said let me talk to Curt, because, to me, the pitchers are the ones that would benefit by it.  And Curt thought it was a great idea.   
 But that's a minor thing but it might be -- he thought it was big.  He thought, you know, have an extra day off early would be good for the pitchers and might keep him healthier longer.  When he said that, I said healthier longer and okay.   
  
  Q.  You start the 14th?   
 BOB GEREN:  I think it is reporting the 15th, starting the 16th.  Is that right?   
  
  Q.  Yeah.  Eric Chavez talked about the reason he thought the A's started slow was because it was basically a new roster every year and took a while for them to jive.   
 BOB GEREN:  That wouldn't be the case then if that's true.   
  
  Q.  You look forward to that then?  Basically the same core coming?  You still need a DH?   
 BOB GEREN: Yes.  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Is that something that could help you guys not get off to that slow start?   
 Bob GEREN:  Yeah.  Yeah.  You talked about maybe people fitting their roles and things like that.  I haven't thought of it that way, but that's a good -- Eric, a good point.   
  
  Q.  Do you believe Eric did everything he played through last year, still winning the Gold Glove?   
 BOB GEREN:  Yeah.  It's hard, I never experienced that player day in and day out.  I was lucky to play a few days in a row.  So, to go ahead and give it that effort he did is impressive.  And with what he did for the team to be this healthy into this year and it would be -- I'm sure, you know?   
  
  Q.  Bobby, what about -- he's not had good luck the last few years?   
 BOB GEREN:  Yeah.  We'd like to see that obviously change for him.  He's a great kid and he works hard and he stays in great shape.  So, you have to put a lot of that --   
  Q.  What's the update with those injuries like Harden and Crosby and Chavez?   
 BOB GEREN: Harden's fine.   
  
  Q.  He is?   
 BOB GEREN:  Crosby's feeling better.  I still -- haven't spoken with him in about three weeks.   
  
  Q.  Who?   
 BOB GEREN: Crosby.   
  
  Q.  Crosby?   
 BOB GEREN: He was going to go see -- he will be evaluated and I understand that went well.  I don't know.  You could ask David on the update of that.  You will be with David later.  He would have an update on that.   
  
  Q.  So Rich Harden, 100 percent?   
 BOB GEREN:  Yeah.  Finished the season right at 100 percent and then he didn't feel anything after.   
  
  Q.  Yeah.   
 BOB GEREN:  And I did speak to him after the season.  He said he feels great.   
  
  Q.  So, you won't -- will you limit him at all in spring training?   
 BOB GEREN:  I don't think so.  I think he would have to progress just like anybody else.  I mean, obviously, if there's something that would set him back, you would get into it.   
 Right now, he would have to go in as he's healthy.  I won't think that there would be any limitations at all.   
  
  Q.  Have you have allowed yourself the luxury yet of thinking about somebody like a Mike Piazza to DH for you?   
 BOB GEREN:  I have, because his name's floated around so much.  But --   
  Q.   What would that do for you guys, for the lineup, to have somebody like that?   
 BOB GEREN: Well, any -- any, you know, presence in the middle of the lineup like that would help, but I don't know where that's at right now.   
  
  Q.  Is it hard to expect one guy to pick up 29 home runs and 114 RBIs?   
 BOB GEREN: Yeah.  Yeah.  But as you were saying earlier, if Eric's healthy and Bobby's healthy and Milton has a season like he did a second half, it is -- all those numbers are gonna be compiled by total, you know, one through nine, not just the number four hitter.   
  
  Q.  Do you think Swisher can put up -- I mean, he had pretty impressive numbers May way, but do you think he can be even better than he was in terms of --   
 BOB GEREN:  Swisher will get nothing but better.  He is a -- you know, if you want to call him a star now, if not, you say's future star now.  That's fairly the same, but he has got outstanding ability, and he's just -- he's so young that he's a great future, as far as learning on the job really.  He's guy that got to the major leagues fairly quick and he's got better.   
  
  Q.  Do you mold the team's personality or does the team mold your personality?   
 BOB GEREN: Well, that's a -- that's a -- I've read books that say the manager -- the team takes on the persona of the manager, and I think that's got some merit to it.  I don't think it's 100 percent, but I think that if you have somebody that's energetic, that the team might appear that way more.   
 The guy's aggressive.  I know that, you know?  You look at, like, Mike Scioscia's team, and he has a reputation of being tough and aggressive and their team plays that way --   
   
  Q.  And you are --   
 BOB GEREN:  You look at Joe Torre, he has a professional personality that, you know, I won a lot of games and I know what I'm doing.  And their team walks out there the same way, that we won a ton of games, we know what we're doing.  And I think there's something to it.   
  
  Q.  And what's your personality, besides happy and --   
 BOB GEREN:  I think I'm pretty aggressive as far as that goes.  I like to -- I like to push every day.  You know, whether that relates, like, into stolen bases or something, that depends on the personnel, but you know, I like to try to win every day and push it pretty hard.  Yeah.  But I also like to enjoy it, too.  I like to create an environment where the players look forward to coming to the field every year.  That's always been my thing.   
 You know, I read somewhere that, like, the average career is like 3.4 years or something like that, as a player.  And --   
  Q.  It's 4 for a writer.   
 BOB GEREN: Four?  You guys have it good.  So, I kind of -- going through the minor leagues, took a long time for me ever to get to the major leagues, and believe me, there were times I didn't know if I would ever get a shot.  So, I say, you know what, you got to enjoy it every day 'cause you don't know how long it will last.  So, I kind of tell players that a lot, too.   
 When I was managing the minor leagues, always be concerned about what are my chances here or there, and, you know, just do the best you can, enjoy every minute of it, 'cause you'll be better off in the long run.  So, I think that's kind of my style.   
 But on the other hand, when that first pitch is thrown, I want to win bad.  So --   
  Q.  What did Milton show you in the ALCS?   
 BOB GEREN:  He's just -- he is a player that, you know, rises to the occasion.  He is that good.  He's got so much talent.  He has just a gift for a playing.  He's just tremendous.   
  
  Q.  Is there a need though to try to harness that emotion and that fire and everything that he has, or is he one of those guys you just need to let go and do his thing?   
 BOB GEREN:  Well, everybody is different.  I think that he needs to be -- I don't know, let him, you know, just be the player that he could be without trying to, you know, push him in the one direction.  Just try to work alongside with him, like any player.   
  
  Q.  Have you talked to him at all since --   
BOB GEREN:  Yeah.  Yeah.  I've talked to everybody on the roster.  Yeah, I did.  He seemed, you know, pleased that I was chosen.  I mean, they all did, you know?   
  
  Q.  Yeah.  Nobody told you off?  "How did you get the job?"  Nobody said, "Get off the phone, I'm calling my agent."   
 BOB GEREN:  Trade me right now.  What is that movie --   
  Q.  Is it trade --   
 BOB GEREN:  The hockey one, "Trade me right now" and hang up.   
  
  Q.  "Slapshot."   
 BOB GEREN:  "Slapshot."   
  
  Q.  "Slapshot?"   
 BOB GEREN:  Hilarious.  That was Milton.  Milton was good.   
  
  Q.  What's your connection with Tony?  Was there any -   
BOB GEREN:  Tony La Russa?   
  
  Q.  Yeah.   
 BOB GEREN:  I met him a few years ago, and just he -- lives not far from me.   
  
  Q.  Oh, okay.   
 BOB GEREN:  So, I actually called him and I said, you know, if you want to go to breakfast one time and talk about baseball and he said, you know, a lot of -- he respects a young manager trying to -- trying to improve and that he did the same thing when he started.  He kind of mentored by Sparky Anderson and different league managers and he was great.  I mean, I owe him a lot for that experience, something that you can't -- where do you get that, you know?  What a great resource.   
  
  Q.  Breakfast turned into lunch?  Took that long?   
 BOB GEREN: Yeah, a couple of hours, yeah.  He was a great man.  I always respected him from afar and then I got a chance to talk with him.  That is just -- way up there on my list now, that's for sure.   
  
  Q.  Bob, fair or not --   
BOB GEREN:  Not.   
  
  Q.  I think there is a perception out there from some people that, it has been there for a while, that Billy kind of runs the show with this team.  How do you, as a manager, kind of leave your own personal stamp on things?   
 BOB GEREN:  Well, that's a good question, because you're saying fair or not for him.   
  
  Q.  Fair or not, whether that perception is fair or not?   
 BOB GEREN:  I haven't managed a game yet.  So, I don't know exactly how accurate that statement is, but from this point forward, I would say it is not really fair because he is -- the things that he's told me have been, "Be your own person, manage the game you want," you know?   
 As far as information about things players and possible potential moves and stuff, he's told me everything that's been going on.  So, if there is a perception, I don't know exactly what that perception is again, to be honest with you.   
 Again, I've heard people say what you said, but from the inside, I never felt that way, you know?  He'd have meetings, discussing playoff rosters, all the coaches being there, everybody was else there.  So, if the perception is that it doesn't include the managers and coaches, that's not true, because I've been a coach.  I've been involved in all those spring training meetings.  I make the final rosters and playoff rosters, and if a guy was promoted from AAA or sent down, we were always involved.  So, I don't know where those --   
  Q.   Bob, is the difference between a coach and a manager, meaning coach, you can't be as buddy-buddy with the player?   
 BOB GEREN:  Yes, that's true.  That's very true.  I was told that, asked a lot of people questions about this, because I really wanted to improve and be the best that I can be.  And a lot of people say, you know, as a coach, what you don't want -- Karl Kuehl told me this, what you don't want is the players to say, you know, as a coach, he was -- he was great, but as manager, doesn't seem like he talks to us the same amount.   
 He said to make sure that you have time, make time, like you did as a coach, for them, but it's not exactly the same because you're making decisions.  You are taking them out of the game in whatever inning when he wants to stay in.   
  
  Q.  Your sometimes a little spread out, too, I mean, dealing with the media, for instance a bunch of time, make it -- is that gonna be different -- easy for you to take the time to deal with other things, other than with players or other duties?   
 BOB GEREN: It's not necessarily easy.  You just have to do it.   
  
  Q.  Is that something you had to do at the minor league level too?   
 BOB GEREN: No.  The minor league level, some teams, there was so press.  You know, Sacramento is a little bit.  No.   
  
  Q.  But I mean, did you check in daily?  Is that something that kind of came with --   
 BOB GEREN:  The players?  That was just natural for me.  Nobody told me to do it.  I just did it, you know?  The team stretching, I was standing right there.  You know?  Just talk to people.  You get out and talk to them in airports, on the bus.  It's just -- I always want to know how they are doing and any information you have to help them help you.   
  
  Q.  Is it more important for you to talk to guy whose are slumping than guys that are going well?   
 BOB GEREN:  Yeah.  Yeah.  I agree with that, or guys that aren't playing.   
  
  Q.  Mm-hmm.   
 BOB GEREN:  You know, the guys that, you know, if Kendall is leading off and playing just about every day and playing great, I know he's fine, you know?  He's great.  So -- but the guy, you know, the backup catcher might need to know when he is going to play.  So, yeah.   
  
  Q.  You mention playoff rosters too.  In that vote, did you vote for Rich Harden?   
 BOB GEREN:  I don't remember.   
  
  Q.  Come on.  Come on.   
 BOB GEREN:  That really wasn't the question.  It wasn't is he going to pitch game three or game four, it was --   
  Q.  Whether Haren would be available to --   
 BOB GEREN:  It was more like assessing how assimilated the game was and ready to make a start more than you want him or him for which game.  It wasn't broken down like that, no.  No.  All I remember saying was I was -- I don't remember the numbers, but I was doing the radar gun, and I was kind of watching, and I was saying that his velocity, with a simulated game with 50,000 playoff games, would increase with the adrenaline level.  He would be back up where he needed to be.   
 So, I felt comfortable that's what I said.  And then I said I would also like to see how he feels tomorrow or something, and then a dozen major type things, went around the room there is about eight or ten people.  But didn't come down like in three, four, who do you want?  It wasn't like that.   
  
  Q.  I know it was like 5-5.  Something like that.  That was the story.  That was the story we got.   
 BOB GEREN:  Okay.  We done?   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT