UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 12, 2019
Clay Helton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Notre Dame - 30, USC - 27
CLAY HELTON: Stopped and pen them deep. They had a couple long drives where they had some explosives in the first half that got them two scores up and we weren't hitting the explosives and then in the second half they came on. I asked the kids to stay in the fight for 60 minutes and I thought they did a wonderful job of fighting all the way till the last push.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
CLAY HELTON: Referees have very hard jobs and at full speed some calls are hard. I see it one way, another man may see it the other and you have to live with those calls and live with those calls as coaches. You know, this one got hit a little bit late also. I hope we look at it and it's not the same thing. But it's something that that crew out there is a pro crew. They do a great job in our league, and some calls go your way and some calls don't. That call didn't go our way.
Q. Do you have an explanation on the on-side kick?
CLAY HELTON: No. I went to them because one of their coaches was actually on the field. And actually all the way to the numbers. I asked if that was reviewable. I was going to call a timeout to review it because I felt our guys didn't really know were we going or were we not going. I thought it did help when they tried to get their guys lined up. Should have been a flag. No question. It got missed. I was asking to see if it was reviewable. But it was a nonreviewable call.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
CLAY HELTON: He's doing a great job, as well as the other kids. And he had a bigger role tonight. He did a wonderful job for basically 82 yards on the night and as well as (indiscernible) and Stephen. I think all three of them put us in positions to win. I mean he got the most carries out of three guys tonight. So I think his role did increase tonight.
Q. Do you feel like you guys should have won?
CLAY HELTON: Do I feel like we should have won? No. We didn't do enough in the first half to put ourselves in position. The score was 30 to 27. And we'll look at this tape, and there was enough times we had the opportunity to get a stop and we didn't come up with it. We had an opportunity in the first half to finish drives and we didn't do it. It's a team game, and as a team collectively, staff, players, everybody, we came up short today. It's our job over the next six weeks to make sure that doesn't happen so we can win a PAC-12 title and see at home in the Rose Bowl. We control our own destiny and we look forward to the next game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT