MLB WORLD SERIES: PADRES v YANKEES
October 17, 1998
Sammy Sosa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







SAMMY SOSA: Hi, my name is El Duque (laughter.)

Q. What do you make of the two teams that are playing in the World Series this year?

SAMMY SOSA: Spanish or English? I just want to say it's an honor for me to be here
today. The first -- I've been through a lot of baseball, but the first time in the World
Series. So now I have to throw strikes. It's an honor for me to throw the first pitch.

Q. He received an award yesterday from the Catholic church. He's the first Latin to
receive that award. What does that mean to you?

SAMMY SOSA: It means a lot to me. I have to say that every where I go, people in
America have been showing me their appreciation. This is something that made me very, very
happy and a very honored person. People have always been following me in 1998. It's been
unbelievable. I have to say that it is a very, very, very nice country.

Q. What do you think of what has happened over the last ten months to El Duque?

SAMMY SOSA: Well, I think in the last ten months, he was in Cuba, right?

Q. That's where it began.

SAMMY SOSA: I have to say that I feel great for El Duque, especially where he's coming
from. And he got an opportunity to come here and through a very, very nice gap. He
surprised everybody. At the beginning, before he signed the contract, he signed with the
Yankees, a lot of people said he could pitch. But now he showed that he can pitch and
that's something that not everybody was looking for. He's doing great.

Q. Sammy, how proud are you of what happened today in New York?

SAMMY SOSA: I have to say that I'm very, very proud because in New York, it's the
second Dominican Republic. People today supported me, it was unbelievable. I thought I was
in the Dominican today. All over the place, people were there for me. They've been so
nice. Not only people in the Dominican, not only Latin people, but American people too.
You know, it just made me very, very happy person. And I'll keep doing what I've been
doing and trying to keep everything in straight.

Q. Sammy, you told us you were going to try to talk to McGwire after the season was
over and everything calmed down. Have you done that yet?

SAMMY SOSA: Yeah, I just try to reach him. But every time I call, I call collect and he
doesn't accept the charges.

Q. Sammy, how much pressure do you think you'll have next year to break your own record
again?

SAMMY SOSA: Well, I have to say that if Roger Maris's record was 37 years, I don't know
how many are gonna be mine. So I think that I will be ready for 1999. I believe in myself.
I believe in God. I have all the tools to come back and have another good year. Whatever
happens in 1999, you will know.

Q. Sammy, what have you been doing since the end of the Division Series? Have you been
back to the Dominican? What was the reaction there?

SAMMY SOSA: I've been to the Sammy Sosa's Charity Foundation, trying to do everything
we can. People in America have been supportive of me in that. They say I'm a lot of help.
In the next week, I'm going to go back to my country. And everything that people in
America have given me, I'm going to go back to my country and give it back to my people.
They don't have any houses. That's something that makes me real, real proud right there.

Q. Sammy, what do you say to people and fans who feel you were slighted by Major League
Baseball with all the attention first given to McGwire, maybe you've taken a little bit of
a backseat.

SAMMY SOSA: Not really. I think that people, especially Major League Baseball, the
Commissioner, they've been showing a lot of respect, a lot of appreciation. Especially
people in America. So for me, I'm not the kind of person -- a jealous person. For me,
everything that I see and everything that I give, that's good enough for me.

Q. Sammy, how has Kevin Brown changed as a pitcher in the years you've been facing him?

SAMMY SOSA: I have to say that in those types of situation, like today in the
postseason, everybody had more opportunity to concentrate a little bit more and go out
there and try to win. This is going to be different. The Yankees have a great, great team.
You have a lot of people that can do the job. San Diego too, too bad they don't play for
the Chicago Cubs.

Q. Sammy, have you a sense of the American people and baseball fans accepting you and
appreciating what you did as much on the field as the way you conducted yourself off the
field? Granting interviews, focusing on team goals first, working for the people in your
homeland, do you have a sense you were embraced by this nation as much for that as much as
by hitting 66 homeruns?

SAMMY SOSA: I have to say yes. You know, the appreciation the American people show me,
it's been unbelievable. Not only show me the appreciation, but the respect that they have
for me and the respect that they have for that. No matter how much money you have in the
world, when you see that kind of thing from people, you don't need anything else.

Q. You're about to receive the Roberto Clemente Humanitarian Award, how do you feel
about receiving an award for your humanitarian efforts?

SAMMY SOSA: I have to say that I feel honored. Roberto Clemente was a legend, a player
I'm never going to forget. To receive an award, a Roberto Clemente Award, it's
unbelievable. Every day and every day, especially the way that I've been, there's been so
much honor. Nobody can replace Roberto Clemente.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT