NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS v BRAVES
October 1, 2003
Sammy Sosa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  There was an obvious influence of Cub fans last night.  Are you probably hoping that works on the Atlanta players?

SAMMY SOSA: Probably.  Whatever it takes to win the game.  Yesterday, I had a chance to enjoy that and I see so many Cub fans, and that was a big motivation for the whole team.  It was unbelievable.  We have so many Cub fans all over the world.  Yesterday it was great, and I'm very happy and I'm looking forward to hearing that again tonight.

Q.  Last night you stole a base and tried to stretch a hit.  Are you trying to be more aggressive or did it just work out that way?

SAMMY SOSA: Well, you know, I'm trying to do something for the team.  Everybody, when they heard my name, they're thinking about homeruns.  I can do other things too.  I'm trying to help the ball club.  I used to steal a lot of bases.  I don't forget. 

Q.  You have had good success against Hampton in the past.  Is there any way in particular about the way he pitches you?

SAMMY SOSA: Well, Hampton is a great pitcher, but I think that if you have a chance to face one of those guys, I make more adjustments and be patient of the play.  That's one of the reason I'm having success.


Q.  When you go home Friday, you'll face Maddux in much colder weather.  Do you think the weather is a factor this time of the year and it can help the Cubs?

SAMMY SOSA: I think so.  We have been playing in Chicago for so many years and this time of the year during the playoffs, it doesn't matter if it snows.  It will probably be an advantage for the whole team.  We'll be prepared that day and ready to go.  Like I said before, whatever it takes for us to win the game.  That's what it's going to take. 

Q.  When Palmero turned down the trade to the Cubs, did that help bring your team together?

SAMMY SOSA: I'll tell you what, Palmero is my friend, but he made a big mistake.  Now, he's home watching us, and we're in the playoffs, and I don't mean trying to say something more about it, but it was a good opportunity for him, and when we heard that, one thing why we're here today is because we stayed together, and we're wishing he would be here today, but we made it.  We're here today.  He probably is sitting home saying, wow, if I would have taken the chance, he would have been here with us today. 


Q.  You had four homeruns in the last five games in the regular season.  Do you feel that your swing is there?

SAMMY SOSA: No question.  Sometimes you have to go through those little things.  You go back to watch the video and make sure you know what you were doing before.  I make adjustments, but my swing is there.  I will be patient.  I can go out there with an idea to know what's going on.  That's why you see me finish that way. 

Q.  Everybody is probably thinking about taking a two-game lead by winning tonight.  In the clubhouse, are people talking about it?

SAMMY SOSA: Well, when you I know the first game, the only way you say to yourself we've got to get ready for the second one.  Pretty much everybody is prepared.  Everyone knows we've got to go out there tonight and play hard again and do pretty much the same thing that we do yesterday, and we're ready for that and definitely we know we're thinking about winning today. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT