MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 11, 2000
Sammy Sosa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How much did you miss that last one by?

SAMMY SOSA: That was a great pitch to go to rightfield. Pretty much, I was looking for
something inside, and he just throw me that pitch outside. I was thinking: "Go to
rightfield." I would have had it really great.

Q. Home runs are just taking off in the regular season. Why do you think you guys are
hitting so many home runs?

SAMMY SOSA: I think all the players, they are spending some more time in the gym. They
are stronger, and they probably want to go and compete. This is the name of the game, and
pretty much you see the difference in the first half. You see some people right now, some
players that have 28, 30 home runs -- something that never happened before. And that's
what made this game so exciting.

Q. So would you say it's up to the pitchers to make an adjustment since the hitters are
doing so much work?

SAMMY SOSA: I don't know what you have to make an adjustment, but I prefer everything
to keep going the way it is. (Laughter.)

Q. Prior to batting practice, Bobby Cox said that he would give you as many at-bats as
you wanted in order to thrill the crowd. Did the thought enter your mind for staying in
the game for the full nine?

SAMMY SOSA: You have to understand that you come here to the All-Star Game, three
at-bats -- I think that was good enough for me. You have to give an opportunity to the
other guys that are here for the first time. But I was talking to Bobby, and I said,
"If you need me for more, I don't mind to stay for the game." But I don't think
it was the right time for me to stay in the game. I think what I did yesterday and today,
that's good enough.

Q. Do you think we'll see 60 again this year?

SAMMY SOSA: Well, I cannot say no. We are going to go out there and try to finish
strong. I still have a lot of future in my career. If it doesn't happen this year, I have
a lot more years to come, and I'm going to get ready for it. You have to understand that
in the first half, I would be playing the way that I was playing before, because I was a
little bit -- kind of like really, really not happy. But I believe now that I'm back, and
I feel great again and start to smile again, and go out and play the game the way it is.

Q. With the man on base each time you came up, were you just sort of thinking to
yourself, "I wish I had one of those 26 back from last night?" 

SAMMY SOSA: I was just trying to make contact. You have to understand that you're
facing some of the All-Star pitching, too. It's nothing like BP. You can go there and say,
you know... (Laughing. ) But I made some good swings, and they made some good pitches.
Good pitches are going to stop good hitters. I wish I could have one of those.

Q. How would you sum up these two days here in Atlanta: Winning the Home Run Derby, the
reception from the fans? Was it a good experience for you?

SAMMY SOSA: Unbelievable experience, especially for the last four weeks. Everything
that I've been through, I come here to enjoy everything, and win there yesterday. It took
me three years to win the Home Run Derby, and that's something that I really, really enjoy
-- especially the fans that were there last night. It was unbelievable. It was something
that I'm never going to forget. Hopefully, next year I'll come back and do much better.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT