MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 10, 2000
Sammy Sosa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







SAMMY SOSA: Hi, everybody. You enjoy the show?

Q. Sammy, when you heard the fans going, "Sammy, Sammy, Sammy," did you feel
like you were at home?

SAMMY SOSA: Certainly. One thing that I just wanted to say, I came here for the last
three years and I didn't do anything. If you all remember, I hit two home runs and one
home run the last two years I have been here. And I just came today with a different plan,
and went up there and gave myself an opportunity, took some pitches and started to swing
the bat and make some great contact. The fans, they motivate me so much. Every time I hit
one a long way, you know, they cheered for me, and that was -- you know, made me keep
going right there. That was a good show, and I just came here to want to put on a show
pretty much, and I didn't come here to win, but I guess I got the win.

Q. You had a good weekend against the White Sox, hit a couple homers; you had this
night. Is this maybe a sign that a hot streak is coming for you?

SAMMY SOSA: Definitely. I think with the hurricane that happened to me the last month,
everything has come down to normal. I said I want to stay in Chicago till the end of the
year. I feel more comfortable myself, I start to feel much better. Before I was there and
I was playing the way that I was supposed to be playing because I was really happy. Now I
feel that I can come back again, go out there and get ready for the second half.
Hopefully, I will do well tomorrow and go to Minnesota, and then go from there.

Q. Were you surprised at the total number of home runs tonight not being as high as
we've seen in some others?

SAMMY SOSA: I was surprised that I made it. You know, but -- pretty much a situation
like that, it is a lot of activity. Everybody's cheering, everybody's happy. You don't
really pay attention to how many home runs you're going to hit. I was feeling great
because everybody was cheering for me. So that's a great feeling.

Q. Sammy, did it bring back memories to have Chino (Cadahia) pitching to you?

SAMMY SOSA: Definitely. That was one of the keys. He used to be my manager in the Minor
Leagues with Texas, and he knows where I really like the ball.

Q. Of all the ones you hit, the one people seemed to talk about was the one in
centerfield at 508 feet. Did it surprise you that it got up that high?

SAMMY SOSA: Well, I knew I got that one good. But I hit one to leftfield that I really
enjoyed this one a little bit more when I went like that, because it feels so great. One
of the things that made me keep going was the fans. They were really, really excited. They
really enjoyed everything. So that's a great feeling right there.

Q. Can you talk about some of the other guys who have won this? The last couple of
years Junior won it, Mark put on a great show at Fenway last year, and one of your old
teammates, Sandberg, the only other Cub that won it.

SAMMY SOSA: Well, you know, every time you compete against Ken Griffey in the Home Run
Derby, you know, that's something that pretty much -- because he's been there so many
times, and he's been winning so many Home Run Derby's, I was hoping that maybe, you know,
he would do something different, because he is the guy that when he's hot, you know, he
can hit ten in a row.

Q. Are you hoping that Andy MacPhail and Ed Lynch watch tonight to show how popular you
are not only in Chicago but all over the country and change their mind about giving you a
long-term contract?

SAMMY SOSA: One thing for sure, they were watching tonight. I don't want to just talk
about a contract right now, because I want to wait until the year's over and relax. And
whatever happens from there happens, which everybody knows, I would love to stay in
Chicago; this is the city I want to stay with. But if it doesn't work out, you know, if I
have to go, I don't have a choice. But I would love to stay there. Let's see what happens.

Q. Any disappointment in not having Mark McGwire in the competition tonight?

SAMMY SOSA: Well, as everybody knows, number-wise, he's been the guy that everybody was
looking for. He's a great person. He's a good friend of mine. But because he's not here
today, you know, I came here to represent. But I think, you know, everybody enjoys -- we
know we miss him. Everybody enjoys today.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT