FIRESTONE INDY LIGHTS: CHICAGOLAND 100
August 29, 2009
James Davison
Daniel Herrington
Andrew Prendeville
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: We'll get started with our post-race press conference. We're joined by second place James Davison, third place Andrew Prendeville. James, why don't we start with you and talk about your run out there today.   
 JAMES DAVISON: Yeah, I mean, it was a really good race and just basically all day I was just playing the role of a wing man, just trying to protect whoever the leader was. At this track if you try and go for a run on someone around the outside and don't have any help from behind, everyone sucks up on the leader and you can get boxed out and go back to 5th place.   
 So I was aware of that, and yeah, was just basically just trying to set myself up for the last lap to time a run. But you know, when my teammate got in front of me, I thought -- I was satisfied to finish second and give him a win this year. Some things haven't gone quite right for him. I didn't want to get too greedy, either.   
 So yeah, it was an exciting race, and definitely I played the role of a good teammate.   
 THE MODERATOR: Andrew, why don't we get started with you and your run out there today.   
 ANDREW PRENDEVILLE: Yeah, we had a good run. We came from the back. We had some fuel pressure problems this whole morning, our practice session, we had some issues, and then we got to qualifying and we had some more fuel pressure issues, so we started from the back.   
 But we had a really good car, and we just tried to slowly pick some people off and work our way up. And at the end we definitely had to work hard to fight with James and Daniel, but like James said, he was being a great teammate and made it very difficult for me. But it was a good race, and I think we put on a good show and I'm happy to be on the podium.   
 THE MODERATOR: We're also joined by our race winner Daniel Herrington, a list of firsts for Daniel here, his first-ever Firestone Indy Lights win, first laps led this season for Herrington and the Bryan Herta Autosport team. It marks the first win ever for Bryan Herta Autosport, and this is Daniel's first full season driving for Herta Autosport, so talk about your run out there today and your win.   
 DANIEL HERRINGTON: Well, at the start it was quite eventful. You're in a huge pack of 10 or 15 cars, and it seems like everyone has their own ideas about where there's room to race. So I was happy just to survive that first 20 laps or so.   
 Then we started realizing our car was working really well up on the high side and we had a good racecar and could drive to the front. So we slowly picked people off, had some bumps and bruises along the way and then finally on that last restart I got a big run on my teammate here and Wade. I was able to make it three wide around the outside of turn 3 and 4 and make it around them.   
 Then I had a ton of help from James in the last 20 laps to bring me home and get us our first win.   
  
  Q. Daniel, how quickly did you know that you could run high on the outside, and how harrowing was it when everybody else was coming by that way, too?   
 DANIEL HERRINGTON: From lap 1 I kind of knew that we could do it. I had a lot of confidence in the car from practice and knew that that was where our car worked really well. So I tried to get up there as soon as I could.   
 But it was definitely hairy. That was one of the tightest races I've ever been in, so I was just fortunate to survive in some cases.   
  
  Q. Daniel, it's always been said that that first race is the one you have to crack because quite often these things go in spurts. Do you believe that and do you subscribe to it?   
 DANIEL HERRINGTON: Well, I hope it starts a spurt of winning for us. That's been a tough season so far. We've had some rotten luck along the way and kind of struggled with speed, struggled getting the car up to where it needs to be. But these guys have worked their butts off all year now, and now we're in a really strong position, had a car that I was comfortable with in practice and finally got that first win.   
  
  Q. What was the most difficult of the turns for you today, or were they all equally difficult?   
 DANIEL HERRINGTON: The turns aren't the difficult part, it's other cars. The turns are kind of easy by themselves, and once I got out front, I was like, man, this is easy; I wish we could do this all the time. But when you've got other cars two stacked to the outside of you, it gets interesting.   
 There was some wind out there, but I didn't really feel it. We had a little bit more downforce than earlier. So the turns weren't an issue, it was the other cars.   
 THE MODERATOR: Guys, we appreciate your time. Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT