WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 12, 2001
Moira Dunn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Go over your score card. 

MOIRA DUNN:  No.  1, I can't even remember, 9-iron to probably about 18 feet.  3, sand wedge to about a foot.  Bogey on 6.  I pulled a 3-iron into the water, had to drop, didn't get up and down.  Missed an 8-footer for par.  Then 7, I hit a 9-iron to about five feet.  10, I hit 7-iron to about six feet.  13, I hit a little sand wedge to four feet.  17, I hit a gap-wedge to about 18 feet, 20 feet, something like that. 


Q.  Was there a particular time, and I mean obviously this was sort of match play because she was right in front of you, was there a certain point where you thought, "It's going to be tough to catch her now"?  She had the early bogey, but regrouped. 

MOIRA DUNN:  I think when she birdied 15, I knew it was a little out of reach.  But depending on what happened on 16, I think if I had made birdie on 16 or maybe if I had made birdie on 15, it would have been a little different, kept it within two shots, maybe I hit 16 or something like that, would have been a little bit different.  But till there, I thought anything could happen. 


Q.  You said yesterday you were really comfortable with yourself, with your game, with your swing.  Were you happy today the way you played in the heat of the battle?  Is this the hottest it's been for you as far as coming down the stretch of a tournament, trying to win?

MOIRA DUNN:  I was really happy with the way I played.  I was excited to shoot, you know, 5-under.  I felt it was a great round.  You know, I really felt like I gave myself a chance really till 15 or 16.  A couple more putts, I really feel -- you know, I hit some bad drives that turned out okay, but I had one bad swing.  You know, 6 I think made a huge difference.  But I hung in there, made some birdies.  I felt like I made a match of it. 


Q.  What were you trying to do with your second shot at 6?  Did you miss-hit it?

MOIRA DUNN:  I miss-hit it, but I was a little blocked.  I drove it down the left side.  I was just thinking  -- I was trying to keep it low because I was thinking about the tree that was hanging over.  It really shouldn't have been in play, but it just got in my head.  I backed away and I still couldn't get out of my head.  That was it. 


Q.  Did you see Michelle hit it in the group before you, same tree, same spot?

MOIRA DUNN:  No, sir.


Q.  She hit the same tree. 

MOIRA DUNN:  I didn't actually hit the tree.  I hit up by the green.  It kicked into the creek.  That's what happened. 


Q.  She was in the same spot you were in.  

MOIRA DUNN:  I didn't see that.  It's just right there, you can't miss it (laughter).


Q.  As you look back on that, are you satisfied with the way you tried to play that hole or would you think about hitting it to the front of the green rather than going for that and taking what might have been a sure birdie?

MOIRA DUNN:  I think my line was fine.  I think I had to get settled down and trust it.  I maybe needed to back away one more time and just start all over again. 


Q.  You went in the creek?

MOIRA DUNN:  Yes, sir, I did. 


Q.  You're a very young player on the tour.  The second and third place you had in the previous two years, how did that factor in being in the chase today, feeling like you could stay in the hunt? 

MOIRA DUNN:  I really just felt like I was really settled in my swing and everything, it was just very comfortable out there.  I don't know if I was really falling back on that so much as I just was really comfortable this week. 


Q.  Was that a 3-iron, your second shot at 6?

MOIRA DUNN:  Yes, it was. 


Q.  Any reason why you're really comfortable this week?  Anything going on in your life that's making you exceptionally happy or not?

MOIRA DUNN:  I don't know.  No.  You know, I just kind of hung in there the first day and played well on the second nine, just got a feel for my swing, just felt comfortable. 


Q.  What do you think of this tournament in general?

MOIRA DUNN:  I think it's a great tournament.  I think it's a great facility, a great town.  There's so much to do.  I had a great time.  I went to a concert this week.  It's a great city.  I really enjoyed it.  I've always enjoyed being here. 


Q.  Who did you see?

MOIRA DUNN:  Match Box 20 and Train. 


Q.  I talked with several players about how your career is developing.  They say you're always in the trailer working out.  Could you talk a little about that?  Meg Mallon said that, "We know she's in the trailer."  A couple others said you have like tunnel vision. 

MOIRA DUNN:  Well, we really do have a lot of free time.  It comes down to what you want to do with your free time.  I enjoy working out.  I enjoy being in there, trying to do something that I think is going to help me, maybe help me with the heat a little bit, something like that, get a little more conditioned.  I feel like I put my time in on the range, on the putting green, then I put my time in the trailer. 


Q.  What are your thoughts in terms of the course, how challenging do you think it was?  Do you think it's challenging enough?

MOIRA DUNN:  I do.  But, you know, I think the thing is, the greens got a little tough at points, but they still rolled well.  I think when you have greens that are that good and they roll that well, people are going to make putts.  That's what it comes down to, you know.  I made some long putts.  Everyone I played with made some long putts.  It wasn't like you felt like you had to hit it five feet to make a putt.  The balls were rolling really well on the greens.  That's what happens when you have great greens like that, you're going to make putts.


Q.  You were one back after three holes.  Wendy bogeys 2 and hits it in a strange place on 3.  Did you think she looked vulnerable at that point or not?

MOIRA DUNN:  I felt like actually she hit three great putts on the first three holes that didn't go in.  It was one of those things where if those putts had gone in, it would be a totally different story.  I thought maybe she had opened the door a little bit, definitely. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT