WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 11, 2001
Moira Dunn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MOIRA DUNN:  3, I hit  -- I hit the front edge, had maybe like four feet left for birdie, 2-putted basically.  
 
MOIRA DUNN:  I hit driver, 5-wood.  And 7, sand wedge in there to about six feet.  8, I hit another little sand wedge to about 15 feet past the pin.  9, I hit 7-iron to about a foot.  Then 16 is the par 5, I hit 3-wood to about six inches.  17, I hit sand wedge to 12 feet about.  18, I hit 9-iron to about four feet.  
 

Q.  Something about finishing holes on the side that you like?
 
MOIRA DUNN:  I don't know.  It works.  I'll take it wherever they come, in bunches, whatever.  
 

Q.  When you see somebody come out early, players are scoring early, does that kind of catch up with people?  Do they think, "There's a lot of birdies out here"? 
 
MOIRA DUNN:  I guess you kind of say, "Why not," hope you hit a few close, start making some putts, then you can kind of get on a roll, which helped today.  I kind of did that, had a couple streaks, which was nice.  You hit it in there a couple feet, you've just got to make those.  
 

Q.  What will it take tomorrow?
 
MOIRA DUNN:  Gee, I don't know.  I think the wind was a little calmer today.  It may have been a little easier wind to play with than yesterday.  You just have to wait and see what the conditions are like, see what happens.  
 

Q.  Doesn't appear you hit too many long clubs in.  Is this a course you can overpower on?
 
MOIRA DUNN:  I think if you carry the ball a certain distance with your driver, you might be able to put it in places where you're going to have some shorter clubs.  It's kind of optical illusions when you're driving the ball.  After playing it a few times, we've been here three years, you've got to pick your targets and trust them, even though maybe you think  -- might look like the bunker is a little further to carry.  You just have to trust your spots, your targets, just hit them.  If you hit good drives, you know, the fairways are perfect, the greens are really nice.  
 

Q.  What's your history in final rounds when you're around the lead?  I think it's four shots tomorrow.  Is that a big gap for you or don't you think that's much to overcome?
 
MOIRA DUNN:  I think you're going to have to have a good round tomorrow.  I think if somebody has a good round, conditions stay the way they are, you can make up the difference.  But you just have to wait and see what happens.  You know, I have no  -- I just  -- you know, I just finished.  I'm not really thinking about tomorrow too much.  
 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
MOIRA DUNN:  You know, I couldn't even tell you, to be honest with you.  I wouldn't even know where to go with that.  I mean, I've been close a few times, but I don't know if it's been a place where people have been shooting 9-under and 10-under either.  If it's a course you know you can do it, the conditions are the same, there's no reason why I can't shoot 9-under, she shoots 5-under.  I mean, you don't know.  
 

Q.  Will you be nervous or not?
 
MOIRA DUNN:  I don't think so.  I'm really comfortable this week.  My swing feels really good.  Just hope I can keep that feel going for tomorrow.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT