LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 21, 2008
Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Young Kim, thanks for joining us here at the LPGA Corning Classic. You won your first event here last year, and now you are back to defend your title. Can you just talk about getting ready for this week and the preparations you've made? 
 YOUNG KIM: Yes, I'm ready for tournament. I'm going to play nothing different like last year then I hopefully win again. I'm just looking for to start even.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Questions for young Kim?

 Q. Talk about the weather and how the conditions are changing throughout the day?
 YOUNG KIM: Yeah, I just played today. It's totally different from last year. Because last year it was a little firmer and warmer so my driver was longer than this year. So I hit short iron wedge shot. But this year I play a lot shorter than last year. I hit middle or long iron for a second shot and the greens a little more soft and slow than last year so totally different.

 Q. Are you able to compensate? Do you feel that you can be as successful hitting the longer irons?
 YOUNG KIM: Well nothing different, just different digits. I mean 7 to 4 and 7 to 6 and 6 to 5. So I think nothing different.

 Q. What happened last week in New Jersey that caused you to get disqualifying?
 YOUNG KIM: Everybody ask me that. Actually, I didn't disqualify. I just withdrew. Finished the first round then I still a little bit wondering because after finishing 18 holes I call rule official. Because when I start there is no card for me, I mean no official scorecard, mine. So I mean Jill, she was my marker. So she took some score card, just empty scorecard, then she write down my score. Then I wait Angus, I mean the rule official, came for me. 
 Then well I feel really bad because my flu and allergies so I want to withdrew. And I talked Angus, said I want to withdrew. And he said, okay, you are withdrew. So I say, Do I have to return my scorecard? Then he say, You don't have to. If you return your scorecard, maybe you add your average score high. And if I don't return, it doesn't matter, not big deal. So I didn't return. And after that Angus told me, Okay, you are withdraw. So I thought I was withdraw. 
 Then after my mom called me, What happened to you, What happened to you? So I say, What? Then my mom say, Why you disqualify; what happened; some bad thing? I say, What disqualify; I just withdrew. Then I just check internet and I was disqualified. Me and Il Mi Chung. And I thought Il Mi Chung same thing, I thought she did withdrew. But I thought that's wrong. But I just wondering.
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: The official reason Young Kim was failure to return the scorecard and Il Mi Chung, she did not sign her scorecard.
 YOUNG KIM: So I think miscommunication with Angus.

 Q. What was your first round score, the 74?
 YOUNG KIM: No 4 over par. So it was 76.

 Q. Health wise are you feeling better? 
 YOUNG KIM: Yeah, much better. I have enough rest, a little better, not much but little better. Yes. I had three days rest time. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN: I know you all had the opportunity just to speak with Young Kim at media day recently so are there any further questions? All right. Well good luck on defending this week, Young Kim. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT