LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 27, 2007
Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PAM WARNER:  Young Kim, congratulations on your first win on the LPGA tour.  You became the 5th Rolex first-time winner this year, and you played four rounds in the 60s.  How are you feeling right now? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Well, feel really great, and actually I cannot believe it.  Unbelievable.  Feeling like I cannot say anything because too much good. 
 PAM WARNER:  Well, can we go over your scorecard, which was pretty good too, starting with No. 2? 
 YOUNG KIM:  All right.  Hit driver, and second shot was 6-iron.  Then about 10 yard birdie putt, I mean eagle putt. 
 No.4, hit driver and hit 52 wedge, 52 degree wedge, and it's about 6-foot putt.  I made it. 
 On No. 8 -- 
 PAM WARNER:  No. 5 we have you for a birdie. 
 YOUNG KIM:  Is that the card for yesterday? 
 PAM WARNER:  No. 
 YOUNG KIM:  I can't remember today. 
 PAM WARNER:  Okay.  No. 5? 
 YOUNG KIM:  No. 5 hit driver, and hit 7-iron, then it's about 7 yard uphill, eagle putt.  Then I just made a 2 for birdie. 
 And No. 7, hit 6-iron then it was just past the pin, my ball was on the edge.  I made about 8-yard putt. 
 PAM WARNER:  6-iron to 8 yards? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Yes. 
 PAM WARNER:  All right.  And bogey on 8? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Bogey on 8.  I hit tee shot really left with my pitching shot.  It was me in the bunker, bunker shot, and then it was almost egg fry, then I trying to get out and made it 2-putt, so bogey. 
 PAM WARNER:  What did you use off the tee there, driver, too? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Yes.  I did driver, then stupid pitching shot. 
 PAM WARNER:  Driver, pitching wedge. 
 YOUNG KIM:  Yes.  Then on No. 9 perfect tee shot with 7-wood, and stupid pitching shot again.  Then all the way past the green, so my ball was on No. 7, short hole, tee box.  I was trying to chip on and made 2-putt, so bogey. 
 PAM WARNER:  Chip to 15 feet and bogey putt.  How about 14? 
 YOUNG KIM:  14, driver, and then 6-iron and then 52 degree wedge and it's a birdie putt. 
 PAM WARNER:  And 17? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Tee off 3-wood and 8-iron, 2 birdie putt. 
 PAM WARNER:  All right.  Questions for Young Kim? 

 Q.  Just everything was going pretty smoothly, and then you get to 8 and 9 with the two bogeys.  Talk about your mental state there and just recovering and bouncing back. 
 YOUNG KIM:  Well, beginning of the game everything was really perfect.  Made 4 birdie and everything feeling comfortable.  Then suddenly, birdie shot coming to me, then 2 bogey.  After that, I thought, oh, maybe wind not to me this time. 
 I just try to keep calm, but I couldn't calm.  Then finally I trying -- so saw Kimmy's score because I was tied second on No. 14, 13?  Kimmy was first, so I thought, Oh, maybe if I get 2 more birdie I can have chance to win. 
 Then after that I try to make a birdie just to make 2 birdie.  Then I had a birdie on No. 13, then I watch again scoreboard.  Kimmy gets down and Paula was tied with -- I mean Paula first and then me and then Kimmy, and I second, so I try to just make 2 more birdie.  I didn't think of Paula.  I just trying to get birdie. 

 Q.  What did you feel like after the birdie on 17?  Did you know that you had pretty much clinched it at that point? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Well, actually I didn't try to get the birdie on No. 17, because it was too windy and it's not easy shot. 
 My second shot was 183 yards left and wind was into us, into me.  So I just trying to make 2-putt, but my second shot was really solid shot.  I thought it was going into the hole, then easy birdie.  That gave my easy birdie.  After that, I can't do anything. 

 Q.  Talk about your reaction from your countrymen when you did win and got the shower afterwards. 
 YOUNG KIM:  Well, actually I was crying at the time, so I couldn't see them.  That's why everything is to me showering.  If I saw them I will run out. 

 Q.  Why do you wear your hat so low? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Hat so low? 

 Q.  We can't see your face.  Is there a reason? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Why do I wear -- 

 Q.  Low. 
 YOUNG KIM:  Oh, low.  Well, I just trying to normal, not trying to be -- well, actually, my hat is trying to protect from too much sun, because I don't want to old too early. 

 Q.  When you look at the final leaderboard, you ended up winning by 3 strokes over Paula and Mi-Hyun.  But it obviously was, you know that's pretty deceptive.  It was a lot closer than that.  Were you surprised in the very end how relaxed the win was and that it was a pretty simple putt you had a 2-stroke lead there? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Well, after knew 2 stroke with me I wasn't comfortable, because I knew this course everybody can make birdie easy and everybody can make easy double. 
 Even on No. 18 tee box, actually, I didn't comfortable, because I just need birdie or par again, then make -- I mean, it's going to make -- so actually before the putting I trying to make a par.  I mean, I'm not lose my everything thinking, keep concentrate. 

 Q.  Just a follow-up on an earlier question.  Your South Korean players showered you.  Talk about the camaraderie among the players here.  The same thing happened to Mi-Hyun a few weeks ago.  Talk about the camaraderie among the Korean players here on Tour. 
 YOUNG KIM:  Yeah.  Well, when Kimmy win I wasn't there, because I played there so I go home early.  Other players do same thing.  So I think if Korean player win, other player every time shower of champagne or every time same thing, do that. 

 Q.  Getting your first win, does that take a lot pressure off going into the rest of the season? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Not really, because, well, every game I did well.  I mean, some of the player after the win or before win play like missed cut and made cut and too much up and down. 
 But my game was consistently the same line, so I think it's -- after win everything is more confident to me.  It really give me more confident.  So I think everything is better because I now have victory. 

 Q.  Does to make it any more special that you were able to hold off a couple of Tour's better players in Paula and Mi-Hyun?  To be able to hold them off and get the victory, does that bolster your confidence a little bit? 
 PAM WARNER:  Do you want to rephrase it? 

 Q.  Yeah.  Paula Creamer and Mi-Hyun are among two of the better players in this field.  Does it help your confidence to go in kind of a final round showdown with them and you were the one that came out victorious?  Does that help your confidence? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Fortunately I play with Paula day one and day two, then I beat her.  Then I know I can do that I can beat everybody, because Paula is one of the top player in the LPGA. 
 Then after round two I have a lot of confidence and, yes, I have a lot confidence.  And then round three, well, many players names at the top.  After that round, I mean -- I play well even third round, so -- and then I -- okay, I did well after third round and I knew play with Paula and Beth and I thought, Oh, I play with Paula before and I beat her, so I can beat her again. 
 So I was confident and I was a little bit comfortable with play Paula, even Kimmy, because they -- before I was No. 1. 

 Q.  Did the growing crowds today add any nervousness to yourself? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Actually too much concentrate.  I didn't see crowd and I didn't heard any crowd.  And then nice Corning people because somewhere if I play with Paula, or I mean American player, they just cheer for the American.  But this Corning cheer up me, so it's help me a lot. 

 Q.  How are you going to celebrate today? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Big break.  Calling to my mom and my friends and everybody thanks. 

 Q.  What did they shower you with, champagne or soda? 
 YOUNG KIM:  I think it's Coke, champagne. 
 PAM WARNER:  I saw Diet Coke and Powerade. 

 Q.  On 9 there was no penalty, right, incurred on that shot?  You didn't get a stroke penalty.  You were able to drop the ball. 
 YOUNG KIM:  Yeah, yeah, it was a free drop. 

 Q.  Did you feel that that might have helped you win this tournament, because if you had gotten a penalty there and gotten a double bogey that would have knocked you out of tournament? 
 YOUNG KIM:  Yeah, I worry about penalty, that's why I call in ruler and I just follow him, so now clear.  No penalty, ever. 
 PAM WARNER:  Any more questions?  All right. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT