LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 25, 2007
Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAM WARNER:  Thank you for joining us today.  Great round out there.  You are currently in the lead at 12-under par.  You shot 8-under today, can you start by talking about how you played?    
 YOUNG KIM:  I think everything was good. My shot, my putt, everything was solid today.  No bogey and just 8 birdies.   
 PAM WARNER:  Can we go over your scorecard?   
 YOUNG KIM:  Yes, but I cannot remember all.   
 PAM WARNER:  We'll try.  Out start on 10.  You had a birdie.   
 YOUNG KIM:  Yes.  Hit driver and left 113, so I hit pitching wedge.  Then about 3-foot putt.  Made the birdie.   
 PAM WARNER:  Birdie on 12?   
 YOUNG KIM:  Birdie on 12, Par 5.  I can't remember.  I see, hit driver shot and 5-wood with second, and third with my 52 degree wedge, like 10 foot.   
 PAM WARNER:  Okay.  And then birdie on 10?   
 YOUNG KIM:  Birdie on 15, Par 3.  Okay, I hit 8-iron and about 21 foot.   
 PAM WARNER:  And then birdie on 17?   
 YOUNG KIM:  Birdie on 17.  Okay, hit 3-wood, and second shot, 123 yards, I hit nine, and it was 18 foot.   
 PAM WARNER:  Okay.  And then birdied the second hole.   
 YOUNG KIM:  Second Par 5, hit driver and hit 6-iron, then 2-putted.   
 PAM WARNER:  Okay.  And then you birdied 3.   
 YOUNG KIM:  Okay, I hit corner with my 4-iron, corner shot, and it was about six foot.   
 PAM WARNER:  Okay.  And then birdie on 5.   
 YOUNG KIM:  Birdie on 5, Par 5.  Hit driver and 5-iron, 2-putt.   
 And then on 9 --   
 PAM WARNER:  Last hole you birdied.   
 YOUNG KIM:  I hit my 7-wood and I hit my 8-iron and had a 30-foot putt.   
 PAM WARNER:  Questions.   
  
  Q.  Yesterday you had a good round, but today you really poured it on.  Can you pinpoint a difference between yesterday and today?   
 YOUNG KIM:  Well, I cannot feel any difference.  Just I had a good group:  JJ, and play with Paula.  So I didn't -- I think I just play my game.  So everything is feeling same to me.   
  
  Q.  Is this your best score that you've ever shot before?   
 YOUNG KIM:  No.  I shoot 9 under at the Mizuno Classic.   
 PAM WARNER:   Yes, in 2005?  We'll have to look and make sure.   
  
  Q.  Is this your best score this year?   
 YOUNG KIM:  Yes, this year.   
  
  Q.  Did you go in thinking, I could shoot a really good score today?   
 YOUNG KIM:  No.  Maybe before 15th hole I didn't think of my score, and then after I think, Wow, I had a good score today.  And I made one more birdie.   
  
  Q.  Did you realize that you were shooting as well as you were today?  Did that put more pressure on you or make it easier for you at the end?   
 YOUNG KIM:  I play with Paula and she make me feel a little pressure because she have many fans.  I didn't think of crowd, I just play my game, so wasn't pressure for me.   
  
  Q.  How about being in the top of the leaderboard at this stage of the game?  Is that something that you're accustomed to?   
 YOUNG KIM:  Actually, now I'm just so proud of myself.  I have left two more rounds, so I think if I try and do my best shot, I think it's really good to me.   
  
  Q.  Is there anything in your game particularly good today?  Obviously you had no bogeys.  You didn't make too many mistakes.  It just came together well?   
 YOUNG KIM:  Yeah, I think every driver -- most of the driver hit fairway and most of iron hit the green, and I think it's putting well today and driver, iron, just normal.   
  
  Q.  Have you been that consistent in the past here?   
 YOUNG KIM:  Actually, I didn't play last past two years.  Before that two years, I played so-so at this course.  It's too narrow and I think it's too small green to me.   
 But now it's better than two years ago, so I think it's getting better.   
  
  Q.  How about your game overall?  How are you doing this year?  This is your best showing so far?  Obviously we still have two rounds to go.  Is this your best showing to date this year?   
 YOUNG KIM:  Well, nobody knows because there are so many good player out there and we have two more days.  Let's see.   
  
  Q.  A couple players have said the pin placement today is more challenging than yesterday.  You don't seem to have had a problem with it.  How do you find the pin placement?   
 YOUNG KIM:  I think couple holes too much corner and too much side, so I just play the center of the green and trying to make a par but it was birdie.  So, yeah, I think it's a little closer than yesterday.   
  
  Q.  You said this type of course isn't maybe your most ideal setting, the fairways.  So are you kind of surprised being where you are right now being it's not your ideal type of course?   
 YOUNG KIM:  Well, actually, playing before -- I mean, before today, I don't like this course because too narrow and too small green to me.   
 But now every shot gives confidence to me and every putt did well, so I'm feeling good.   
  
  Q.  So you're feeling a lot better about your game here going into the weekend?   
 YOUNG KIM:  Uh-huh.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT