MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 11, 2005
Young Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.   Okay.  You said you played 4 under.  You had a great stretch there on 3, 4 and 5.  What were you thinking?  Did you think this could be a real special day for you?
YOUNG KIM: No, I just think about every shot, I will try my best, so I don't have time to think so I try my best.
Q.   And your best was pretty good for the entire round.  Can you tell us about the eagle on 4?
YOUNG KIM: Yeah, hit driver, and then I hit 6 iron     7 iron for 155 yards.
Q.   Did it go straight in, bounce or roll?
YOUNG KIM: I couldn't see.

CADDIE:  Popped once and rolled.
Q.   You're playing really well.  What are your thoughts going into tomorrow?  You're at the top of the leaderboard.  Later tee times.  Do you go in there thinking you have to post a real low score to catch Annika?
YOUNG KIM: Annika is a really good player.  If I think about her, I play like this (indicating).  I'm going to try every shot my best shot.  I want to try to keep like this (indicating).
Q.   Is it hard to not think about Annika?
YOUNG KIM: Yeah, I think so.
Q.   You may end up in the last group with Annika have you played with her before?
YOUNG KIM: Yeah, I think it's about two times with Annika, one time is in Korea, and another one is when I was a rookie I played with Annika.  Before that week I was real good play.
Q.   You're doing well.  Do you like playing with her?
YOUNG KIM: I think it's good experience to me, so yes, it's exciting.
Q.   In this situation, would you like to or would you rather be in a different group not seeing every shot she makes?
YOUNG KIM: Too long.
Q.   Would you rather play with Annika or a group behind her where you don't have to watch Annika play?
YOUNG KIM: Yeah, never.  Do you know even today, I'm not watch leaderboard.  I just keep my shot every shot, so I play well today.  If I watch leaderboard, maybe not.
Q.   How many shots     for Annika not to run away, to win big, how many shots does she have to be near you guys, 2, 3 shots?

I think he's asking if Annika has like a 5 shot lead today, do you think you guys can catch her or will everybody be playing for second.
YOUNG KIM: If God help me, I can do.  Well, I'm not going to think about her anyway.  I just my best every    each shot that's it.
Q.   You guys all set?  Any more questions?

Thank you.
YOUNG KIM: Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT