BUICK OPEN
August 8, 2002
Kent Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Kent, thank you for joining us, 7-under today.  Why don't you start with some comment on your round.
KENT JONES:  I just started trying to swing easy and just kind of tried to get some tempo going.  I got out there and actually hit it really solid.  Got off to a good start, birdieing 2, 3 and 4 and that got me into the round.  Just kept hitting good shots, giving myself chances and made a lot of pars and then had a really good finish there at the end. 

Q.  You had missed a few cuts coming in here.  Did you have any feeling in practice this week, or any indication that this explosion was coming? 
KENT JONES:   No, not so much.  I kind of felt like it could happen.  I mean, I had no idea it would be today, but I felt like I've been really close to playing well last few weeks, and not missing a couple cuts.  I was close at John Deere and didn't have a good last day, really.  Got on the wrong side of the draw last week in Denver.
But I felt like I've been hitting the ball solid and playing well in practice, practicing well, and just not quite playing as well or making as many putts during the round during the tournament, and not posting very good scores.  But I felt like I've been on the verge of playing well, and it seemed like today I finally made some putts.  Kept the ball out of trouble for the most part.

Q.  When was the last time you had a lead to sleep on?
KENT JONES:   I guess San Diego earlier this year.  The Buick in San Diego tied for the lead after second day, I think.

Q.  What do you do to keep the focus going into tomorrow? 
KENT JONES:   Well, I'm going to go to bed and be right back out tomorrow and play, so it's a quick turnaround.  I don't have a lot of time to think about it.  And also, with three rounds to go, it's a little early.  So just try to keep playing well, making birdies.  It looks like it's going to be a lot of birdies this week.

Q.  You played really well here in  '98.  Is there something about this golf course that is good for you? 
KENT JONES:   I guess maybe because it's not so long maybe helps.  You have to hit it pretty straight.  If you're hitting it straight, I think anybody can play well here.  I've played well in  '98.  So I think that as  -- also I missed a couple of cuts here.  So it's kind of hit or miss.  

Q.  Your sponsorship, Cleveland is that your sponsor?  You're wearing a PGA TOUR shirt; do you have another sponsor?
KENT JONES:   Yeah, Cleveland. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Let's go through your birdies.
KENT JONES:   2, I hit a pitching wedge probably 25 feet right of the hole and made a nice putt there. 
No. 3, I hit a 6-iron probably ten feet right below the hole.  So I had a nice uphill putt and I made that. 
4, I hit pitching wedge to probably ten feet just right of the hole. 
Then 13, I hit my second shot in the left bunker, hit it out to about eight feet past the hole and made a nice downhill putt there. 
14, I drove it on the green and 2-putted from, I don't know how far, 70 or 80 feet. 
16, I made a birdie putt.  Hit my second shot to the right and had to shoot away from the pin and got it on the green probably 35 feet away and made that putt.  I hit  -- you can hit it anywhere left there and be okay.  The second shot  -- inaudible -- I told my caddie, "Well, that's pretty much eliminates birdie."  He said, no, I've seen you make 40-footers before.  So sure enough I hit it to the left, 35 feet or so and make that putt. 
Made a nice par putt on 17 and then 18 I hit it to three feet. 

Q.  Were you seeing all the low scores -- before you take the golf course, in the 60s?
KENT JONES:   Knowing the way the weather was, I knew the scores would be pretty good.  I didn't really look too much at the leaderboard or at the computer.  So I didn't know exactly what the scores were like, but I knew there were a few 5s and 6s up there.  I knew there was a lot of birdies out there and the scores were going to be good. 
But, I think getting off it a good start, three out of the first four helps get into that mindset a little bit and you don't feel like you have to press to make birdies.  It sort of happens that way. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you, Kent, for joining us and good luck tomorrow. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT