VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 15, 2009
Kent Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Kent, J.P. from El Paso comes through here, hot, windy, shoots 62. You from eastern New Mexico, hot, windy, shoot the 65. You guys love this weather, don't you?  
 KENT JONES: Absolutely. It's nice to get in some heat.   
 Bit of wind, as long as it doesn't blow too bad. I think we're probably used to that a little bit.  
  
  Q. Tell me about it. No bogeys. That's the best part. Right?  
 KENT JONES: No bogeys. Absolutely. I felt like I played really solid today.   
 I got in trouble on 1 hole. That was probably it for the day, and managed to make the nice putt for par there. And just had a lot of chances and made some good putts, and I feel like I'm putting great, so I feel comfortable.  
  
  Q. You've played this golf course a lot in the fall.   
 KENT JONES: Right.  
  
  Q. How different is it this spring?  
 KENT JONES: You know, it's not drastically different. I think the greens are a little softer and a little slower, maybe not quite as much rough, but it's still playing pretty fast and firm in the fairways, so it's not -- and it seems to be sort of the same type of weather.  
  
  Q. Did it change much day to day? We're all curious how it would age from Thursday to Friday.   
 KENT JONES: Not really. Being in the morning I think the greens are a little better. It was overcast almost all morning, which was nice, didn't seem as hot, and obviously it's just not quite as windy, so just really seems to be a little fresher in the morning.   
  
  Q. This has kind of been coming for you. You played pretty well at Quail Hollow.   
 KENT JONES: I was close at Quail Hollow. I putted great. I got a new putter and I putted fabulously, so I felt good about that.   
 I made a lot of birdies and a lot of others. I felt like I was getting closer and I'm still putting good and just hitting it better.  
  
  Q. And when the putter is working better, that really --  
 KENT JONES: It changes everything. It's very nice. It's a great feeling to have that.   
  
  Q. Well, good luck to you this weekend.   
 KENT JONES: All right. Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT