THE INTERNATIONAL
August 8, 2003
Kent Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KENT JONES: I played really solid today.  It was a little different -- yesterday was kind of a little crazy and a lot of bogeys and doubles, birdies, eagle.  So today I played -- I kind of stayed out of trouble a lot better today.  Made some good birdies, hit it pretty solid.  I holed a wedge on 14 for eagle which seems to really help your round in this tournament.  I eagled one yesterday which kind of was my whole round.

JOAN vON THRON:  How about the conditions out there, yesterday compared to today, you played in the afternoon, yesterday had that break, but did that make a big difference for you?

KENT JONES: Yeah, I think it was  -- I think in the morning today it definitely played easier than what it played yesterday afternoon.  It was a little breezy and so it was tough, for most people it seems like, that judging the wind what the wind was doing, the greens were getting beat up, so after the break we went back out, they got awfully firm and crusty so I thought it played fairly tough yesterday afternoon.  Then today obviously it's just a perfect day, overcast, not that hot, and a little bit soft out there.  So nice day today. 


Q.   You were out there today trying to do something for yourself, get yourself going in this tournament; all of a sudden you look up at the leaderboard and Davis is playing on  another planet, what is going through your mind?

KENT JONES: (Laughs) funny we got - got on the 7th green we looked up and there was a board there - it was the first I had looked - and he was already at 32 points through eight holes today, we were like, oh, my goodness what is going on.  We kind of laughed about it and thought well, you can't do anything about it, just go about trying to play as good as you can.  It's still early obviously being Friday, but I think we all kind of had a laugh about it.  Just kind of watching what he was doing all day; especially through the first 10 or 12 holes it was incredible.  But as far as affecting us I don't think it had much effect on our group or how we played.


Q.   Is a lead like that insurmountable?

KENT JONES: I guess here it is not.  Obviously depends on how he plays and what they do this afternoon.  If he has a huge lead like that and he adds more points then it's tough.  So I guess it's up to him.  But it's a pretty hard lead.  What did he have 3 eagles today?  So if somebody else -- two or three eagles it's amazing how fast you can move.


Q.   Were you and Paul kind of pulling yourselves along today?  You both had it going pretty well?

KENT JONES: Yeah, maybe a little bit.  We're both playing good, hitting it close, and then you know, on 14, we both had to lay up and then he wedged in there to about a foot and I hit right after him and hit it passed the hole, spun it back in the hole for eagle.  We were laughing about that.  Maybe a little bit because we were both playing well and making some putts.

JOAN vON THRON:  Go through your birdies and eagle.  Started on 1.

KENT JONES: Started on 1, birdied 2, probably hit it to about eight feet there, a little half pitching wedge.

6, I hit sand wedge passed the hole, spun back probably 18 feet, I would guess.  Kind of a nice straight hill putt up there.

8, went for the green, hit the tree, dropped down and chipped up and made a nice little downhill 6-footer.

10, 3-wood, 7-iron probably 20 feet, short left of the hole.

12, I doubled again.  Drove it in the fairway just pushed my 7-iron to the right hit the tree, came back, pitched on the green, made a good 2-putt, just didn't make probably a good bogey from where my second shot was.

14, drove it left and just laid it up short of the creek had a perfect, I think 142, perfect pitching wedge, I just flushed it and hit maybe one or two steps passed the hole and spun back, got lucky and went right in.

17, hit 5-iron to the back edge which wasn't a real good spot; then kind of lagged it down probably six feet passed the hole, just probably about as good as you can do from there, had a nice uphill putt and knocked that one in. 


Q.   What would a nice check mean for you?

KENT JONES: (Laughs).

Could possibly mean a lot for this year considering my position on the money list right now, so obviously I probably need some kind of a big check, sometime this year to kind of get me over the edge, so any kind would be nice.  This week would be especially nice. 


Q.   Kind of feel like  --

KENT JONES: A little bit.  Obviously I enjoy it here. It's beautiful and great and the climate and everything is very similar to Albuquerque, we're just a little higher here than -- altitude-wise in Albuquerque, so I at least have some experience with the altitude.  But the climate, I just love it, so it's very similar to being at home. 


Q.   What were the phases of your game today that you were pleased with and what do you want to improve on?

KENT JONES: Probably driving with my driver especially, last couple of weeks it has been very good.  I am kind of putting the ball in the fairway hitting it solid so I am giving myself a lot of opportunities.  I feel like I can always want to make more putts, I am rolling the ball well, I am giving myself a chance to make a lot of putts.  And probably the one thing that has been killing me is just making mistakes which I pretty much avoided today.  Like last week I made a lot of birdies last week but just made a couple of doubles and too many bogeys, just making mistakes after good drives or whatever, so that's kind of what I need to eliminate, which kind of got me yesterday and then I was better today. 

JOAN vON THRON:  Thank you, Kent, for joining us.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT