INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 5, 2016
Yogi Ferrell
Thomas Bryant
O.G. Anunoby
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Indiana - 59, Wisconsin - 58
Q. Talk about the comeback out there tonight.
YOGI FERRELL: Well, I think the main thing was us getting stops.  We came together, had a collective mindset that we wanted to get stops.  You know, be weren't really converting on offense, but you know, we weren't scoring, they weren't scoring, and we were just able to come out at the end of the game.
Q. Talk about building on this game.
YOGI FERRELL: I think that's very important for us to build on, and I think this game the fans definitely helped us out a lot, so we thank them for being here, giving the building a lot of energy, and just getting this win at home.
Q. Talk about OG's performance tonight.
YOGI FERRELL: Yeah, yeah, this is -- I saw OG's potential in the summer.  He was just a shy, quiet guy in the summer - he knows it - back then, but we've been on him about bringing that out; we're going to need that to win.  And these three big-time games that we've played, I feel like OG has been a great factor for us in these wins.
Q. Talk about your defensive performance tonight.
YOGI FERRELL: Well, yeah, like I said before, each game is going to give you something different.  Every team has their stars, and the next step is we can't play hard defense in the second half because that's not going to get us a win down the road playing somewhere like Michigan State.  You've got to play defense for 40 minutes, have to have, and just find a way.
Q. OG, talk about your shooting tonight.
OG ANUNOBY: I thought I was, but I just should have locked a (inaudible) like Yogi and Rob.  I used to shoot a lot with Yogi and Rob and Nick, and they just stay on me about it.
Q. So are you ready to challenge Nick and Yogi?
OG ANUNOBY: No comment.  (Laughter.)
Q. Thomas, talk about OG; how have you seen him grow into the offense?
THOMAS BRYANT: I've seen him grow a lot.  Since the Kentucky Derby, I saw he was a real guy on and off the court, and I saw the potential when like we came in for the summer, when he was finishing with the guards instead of the bigs.  That caught my eye quick.  He just kept improving.  I'd see him going to get extra work here and always wanting to get better, and that really shows on the court.
Q. Yogi, what was the defensive key in the second half?
YOGI FERRELL: What was key for us was to get stops.  We knew this was going to be a grind-out game, and the only way was to basically just buckle down on defense and just try and take away some of the key tendencies like Koenig and Hayes and what they wanted to do.
Q. Tell us about the '76 team talking to you before the game.
YOGI FERRELL: They didn't really say much to us.  Yeah, they didn't really say much.
Q. Can you talk about what it means to get the win in front of them.
YOGI FERRELL: Yeah, that definitely means a lot, and in my eyes that's something I'm going to remember, for an undefeated team that I currently play for that they previously played for to come in and see us get a win in front of them, that definitely means a lot to me and definitely my team.
Q. Yogi, James is going to be out for a long time; the bench has really stepped up through three games with him out.  We asked it of OG, but as a guy who's started a lot what do you think about the young guys and how they can sustain their impact over the course of the game?
YOGI FERRELL: Yeah, the main thing is you've just got to stay ready always.  You never know when your name is going to be called when you're on the bench, and you've got to have that mindset of, okay, how am I going to go in and impact this game for our team to win, and I feel like guys like OG, Harrison, Ryan Burton, guys that are going to come in the game for us, tight game, and they can come in and impact the game for our team.
Q. OG, do you see yourself as a guard or forward?
OG ANUNOBY: Just a basketball player.
Q. Can you use more words than OG?
YOGI FERRELL: I told you he's shy.
OG ANUNOBY: It's not true.  I'm not shy.
Q. You had 10 points in the first half, pretty effective inside.  Did they do anything different to you in the second half that you were able to get some of those looks?
THOMAS BRYANT: No, getting those points in the first half really freed up my teammates.  I believe Nick got a three, he got a clutch three right there coming up when they all came down on me, and Yogi got some real good looks and got fouled, too, with me coming up and demanding the ball, but also it opens up so much for my teammates.  It doesn't matter about me scoring points.  As long as we get the win, I don't care.  My teammates can score as much as they want and I could end with zero points and still get the win, and I'd still be happy.
Q. It's been 40 years since the team went undefeated and won the NCAA National Championship.  It's like ancient history to you; you weren't even born, but how spectacular or impressive is that to think about, that nobody else has able to do what that team did out there?
YOGI FERRELL: I think about that every day walking into Cook Hall and then seeing the history right here.  That's unbelievable when you get to meet those guys, you get to talk to them, there's a certain humbleness you have to yourself and you try and pick up anything that those guys will try and give you.  You just want to go out there and play well and get a win for those guys when they're here to watch and just show that you're representing them to the best of your ability.
Q. Thomas, talk about the defensive improvement this year.
THOMAS BRYANT: Just continuing the steps of our defensive work.  We got better and better as the season went on and practices.  Coach got on us before.  We get on each other now, and we don't want to go into a game where like it's only offense carrying us.  We're an offensive and defensive team, too.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT