BUICK OPEN
August 11, 2001
Brian Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRIAN WILSON:  Well,  tee-to-green today I thought I played really, really well.  Hit a lot of good drives, put the ball in the fairway, hit some iron shots and took advantage of the par 5s.  And today I eliminated my bogeys.  I have been making a few birdies here this week and having a few too many bogeys so got rid of those and just played really, really solid.  
 
Q.  You play in one of the last few groups tomorrow.  How do you think you will sleep tonight?
 
BRIAN WILSON: I will sleep fine.  I am an old guy.  I am not one of these young guys.  I am getting tired and everybody else is, but I will sleep fine tonight. 
 
Q.  You haven't been in this position I assume too much this year going into the final round with a chance to maybe -- a stroke or two behind or maybe  --
 
BRIAN WILSON: I hadn't been.  Tell you the truth I hadn't played too well this year.  I started playing better here a couple of weeks ago, I thought, and my putting had been really letting me down.  I started putting better, and things are just this time of year things  -- my game starts to get better this time of year for some reason.  Last year I started playing good about this time.  So I hadn't been here.  You have got start somewhere.  I am a rookie this year.  I had to learn a lot to get here, and I had to learn that there's a new tournament that starts on Saturday morning every week, and if you get out, no matter if you make the cut, you can go out and shoot a low score and get right back into the tournament.  I am going to be in it tomorrow.  I am going to go out and play as hard as I can and see what I can do.  
 
Q.  Stewart and Justin all posted low scores to get right back in contention.  Were the conditions prime for that?
 
BRIAN WILSON: I was playing well.  Yesterday evening on the next to last hole I stepped in a hole and sprained my left ankle.  So last night I spent the night with ice on it and woke up this morning wasn't too bad.  Taped it up and was able to get around pretty good.  Funny thing happened I started swinging better when my foot got hurt.  Started hitting the ball more solid and the conditions are really, really good for scoring right now.  The greens are real nice and the wind is turning down on the par 5s and I don't know what is going to be leading at the end of the day today.  
 
Q.  Plan on giving that ankle a tweak tonight?
 
BRIAN WILSON: I am going to work on the other one tonight.  
 
Q.  With a jumbled leaderboard like this tomorrow, will you guess that somebody is going to have to definitely be in the low 60s tomorrow  to win?
 
BRIAN WILSON: The way the conditions are, yeah, I do not think the weather is going to change any, so if it stays the same like it is, yeah, you are going to have to go out and shoot a pretty low number to have a chance to win. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT