BOOZ ALLEN CLASSIC
June 24, 2004
Blaine McCallister
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Thank you for joining us for a few minutes in the media center.  Great round today.
BLAINE McCALLISTER:   Yeah, I played a good round of golf today.  The way I started, I missed a 4 footer for par on the very first hole and that's not the frame of mind you want to get going.  And it's the kind of round, it's kind of the way I've been doing things and not making the crucial putt at the right time to make your par.

Then I come right back on the next hole and hit a pitching wedge three feet from the hole and made birdie on the par  5 on No.  2.

And then I proceeded to hit a 5 wood on the third hole from 248, I hit it a foot.  So I made birdie there.  So that's the way you want to    and then I come right back in the middle of the fairway with a 6 iron in the middle of the green and don't get it up and down, make bogey.

All right.  Even par.  On the next hole, hit it five feet on the next hole and make birdie.  Hold on; it's just getting started.

I'm in the middle of the fairway on the par  5 and I go for it in two and hit it in the water.  I have to drop in the drop area, I hit it about eight feet, ten feet make it for par.

And then I get on the next hole, the par 4 seventh hole, hit 4 iron from 192 yards about, eight feet and made it for birdie.

And then I make a really long putt on the eighth hole for birdie from about 25 feet, kind of up and over a hill.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Are you worn out after all that?
BLAINE McCALLISTER:   I'm just getting started.  I proceeded to knock it over the green on 9.  I hit a 7 iron and it just flew it, and I got that up and down.  I hit a great chip shot to about eight feet, six feet and made it for par.

So I finally breathed on 10.  I've made five birdies and two bogeys in one par, and I said, man, it feels like my game's back.  (Laughing).

Made a good par on 10 and then I hit a 9 iron on 11 about six feet and made that for birdie.  And good drive on 12, that's a great hole, and then hit 7 iron from 162 yards to about six feet and made that for birdie.  And then the par  5, I hit 3 wood on the green, the middle of the green from about 30 feet and 2 putted for birdie.

So, after that, I made one bad mistake.  I kind of hit a bad 5 iron on the 15th hole from the fairway, left side of the fairway on a left to right lie, kind of pulled it short and left of the bunker it was the only place you couldn't hit it on the hole and it was a bogey.  I was going to try not to make worse than 5 and I did that.  I made 5 and parred in.

Had great birdie chances on 16 and 17 and made a great up and down on 18 for par.  Hit it in the right bunker up by the green and hit it about six feet for     again, one of those putts that you have to make for par when you want to keep the round going and I did that.

You know, I'm very pleased.  I haven't seen a press room in, I don't know how long.  Guys, I introduced myself to the Golf Channel, Mike Ritz.  I had to introduce myself, I said, "Hi, remember me?"  It was kind of nice.  I haven't played a really good round of golf as much as I'd like, since Atlanta, basically, so good frame of mind.  I didn't practice at all last week when I was home.  Didn't watch the U.S. Open at all.  I heard they suffered a lot.

So I worked on my boat, did a lot of fishing and just relaxed.  And I came out here today and did that.  I mean, the bogey on the first hole didn't bother me.  I got a little upset with the way I didn't hit the putt the way I wanted it.  Hey, a lot worse off.
Q.  Why do you think it's been so long that you've played well?  Has your health been good?
BLAINE McCALLISTER:   My health's been fine.  My golf hasn't been worth a damn.  How's that?  You've got to shoot some low scores to get invited into the press room.  Besides taking her to dinner, that's about the only chance I've got of getting in the football pool.  (Laughter.)  I just haven't played very good golf.  I played some good golf in the early part of the year, March, April, I played     April and a little bit in May, but I haven't put four rounds of golf together, I mean, and that's, an unfortunate thing.  It takes four round of golf out here.

I know it's in there.  I know I can still do it.  I know I'm grinding hard to do it, but I just haven't done it and that's the reason I'm not coming in here.  My score will show that.  I'm shooting a lot of 73s, 74s, 75s.  In this game, that gets you a lot of weekends off.  But it doesn't deter my attitude.  What are you going to do?  Just keep plugging along.  I mean, after 22 years, there's not much I haven't seen.
Q.  It seems like guys like you have good rounds, good tournaments, can you give us an explanation for that?
BLAINE McCALLISTER:   Well, I mean, No. 1, we've got the experience.  It's not like we haven't played a round     I've been coming here since 19     I starred playing Congressional in '82, and then we moved over here, I guess in '86.  So I've had a lot of rounds here.  I know what the scoring can be like and I'm not, you know     it's not like I'm going to see something I haven't seen, okay.  So I'm prepared for anything that's going to come out there.

And today the golf course was a little bit soft on the greens.  I mean, the cloud cover we had the last two days Tuesday and Wednesday kept the moisture in the ground and the golf course was out there for scoring.  I think you're going to see some of the guys shoot some low numbers today.  The golf course presented itself for some low numbers.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:   Is there something about this course that makes you feel more comfortable?
BLAINE McCALLISTER:   You know, it's not that it makes me feel comfortable, just that I've played well here before, I've had several Top 10s and I've played some good golf at this golf course and I like coming here.  I enjoy playing here.  I enjoyed playing when we played at Congressional.

But this golf course has matured over the years.  It's gotten better and my understanding, they are going to do some work on it possibly next year and do some re routing of a couple of holes to help it out.  I know there's a lot of flood problems they have with water.

But the golf course is out there.  It's in great shape.  It's very penal right now.  You can't hit it in the rough.  It's a one shot penalty.  Drive the ball in the fairways.  I just like the golf course.  I like the way it sets up.
Q.  They are going to change the golf course in some ways, I don't know what those are, but are there things that you think they ought to do here?
BLAINE McCALLISTER:   If there was a few things to change out there, obviously it would be some of the drainage they have on 10, 11 and 12, because the amount of water you get here when we have some heavy rains, those three holes get washed out.  I mean, the 10th green is losing ground.  I mean, it gets washed out around that green.  They are going to have to do something to maybe move it a little bit to the right or re route where the creek is not as involved as much.  Bring the creek to it, but not the severity of the flow.

I think the 9th green needs to be done.  I think the severity of that elevation of a shot is a little severe with that back pin if the greens get really firm.

The 6th green, the par  5, it's lost a lot of it, because of the years of the heavy rains.  Now they have a wall there, so it's not going to lose anymore, but it's lost a lot of its size.

As far as the routing of the golf course, I don't think they need to change anything.  I think the golf course itself has improved over time and gotten better with maturity.  I just think a few of the holes have a problem with the drainage, and with the severity of the water, you get washed     if I recall last year, to get to the 11th tee, I had to go almost to 11 green and come back after you walked off 10 because the bridge got washed out.

So, they have a problem there.  Maybe they can do something there with maybe move the green to the right, get it away from that creek a little bit.  But I don't see, other than the 9th green and maybe the 6th green and the 11th, doing something to kind of improve its position as far as not getting washed out.  I think that's maybe what their goal is.  I hope it's nothing more than that because they don't need to.
Q.  The reason I ask that question is I was talking with Andy Beam yesterday, who is on the Champions Tour, and he's played this tournament a lot; in all three venues he's played.  I asked him the same question.  He thought that they ought to do things to bring shot making more to this golf course.  What's your thoughts on that?
BLAINE McCALLISTER:   Again, when he's talking about the shot making, the shot making is in my opinion, by narrowing fairways and growing rough and getting     that changes the game.  Now you have to put the ball in play and you don't have to worry about trying to     a lot of these guys are getting on the tees nowadays and they are not worried about where they are driving it.  They don't have to fear the drive because it's going to be playable.  I think if the rough was a little more penal like we saw, like they had last week at the Open, but the firmness, if we get firmness here, you have to be a shot maker.  You can't get away with something here.  This is a golf course that's very penal if you short side yourself    but today with the greens being a little softer, you could get away with it.

But I think conditions have to do with shot making, in my opinion.  As far as some of the golf courses we play nowadays, yeah, it's a bomber's type atmosphere.  They are making it 7,400 yards.  I can't play golf courses like that.  That's not my kind of game.  I like to work the ball.  Last week as was a U.S. Open they played an 6,800 yards, 6,900 yards, that's as hard as it comes.  If Retief Goosen and Phil Mickelson don't finish under par, the U.S. Open might have had its head cut off.  Those two guys kept the tournament from being where people were slitting their wrists, I really believe that.  That's how hard that got.  If it's enjoyable to watch guys hit sand wedges onto green and go over the green, I guess that's golf, but that's not golf to me.  I tried to play Shinnecock    I think it's one of the greatest Open venues we play, and I don't think it was meant to play that hard, I really don't.

But this golf course is the same, if it gets firm and fast, I don't know how you stop it on the 9th green.  You've got to understand when I first came here and played this 9th green, when you hit in that left bunker off the tee, guys were hitting in the water on the bunker shots.  So the golf course has improved, it really has.  I like coming here     Roger (phonetic) (inaudible)    has done a hell of a job with this golf tournament, and I'm just happy to be involved.
Q.  If you were to put a percentage on what causes shot making is it the design of the course or the conditions?
BLAINE McCALLISTER:   Obviously you are designing the golf course, but I think the conditions can dictate the play of a golf course, too, as far as that's concerned.  And if you've got a lot of rough grown up and the fairways are narrow, you're going to have to be a good shot maker to put the ball in play.  Otherwise you're going to hit some long irons off the tee.  You've got to understand, the way the equipment is designed nowadays, the ball has a tendency not to curve as much as it used to.

And so then you add that, plus the higher launch with the new club, okay, now you're taking away from some of the talent in my opinion.  I think if you could take the old golf clubs and the old golf ball and you played golf courses like we are playing nowadays, Holy Cow, it would be a different scenario because the ball would not go near as far, we would be playing these golf courses that feel like they are 17 Miles long and two, the ball wouldn't spin as much.  And so now your shot making comes back, having to create the ball landing a certain distance short of the hole so it releases to the hole, that's what makes the shot making conditions.  That's when the conditions and the equipment     change so much over time.  I really believe that the golf equipment has gotten so much better and the talent has gotten so much stronger and bigger, needless to say, you put those two together, what do you get?  It's the fastest runner, the bigger, the stronger, they are the faster.  It's the same way in the game of golf, the evolution of time, the athlete has gotten bigger, the golf ball is going further.  It's just the way everything is.

I'm gaining 20 yards in 20 years.  I gained 20 yards.  Now, you figure that one out.  I gained 20 yards and guess what I've lost 65     (Inaudible.)  Have I increased my distance?  In my theory, no.  Because as far as my distance is concerned, I've lost position, but yet I'm 20 yards further.  So I counter balance that by saying, no, I haven't.  I'm an average.  So it's an interesting scenario, where do you draw the line.

I mean, last week if you look at the U.S. Open, and I have to say this because I saw the scores on Monday, but when you look at guys that are up there, the U.S. Open got exactly what they wanted.  You got your No. 2 player in the world, you've got your No. 4 player in the world, whatever they were, they were at the top of the leaderboard.  They proved that.  That's why they were there.  Put them on     I don't know how anybody can complain when you're playing for $6 to $7 million, let's go play down 495 and we'll see some shot making.  We'll have to do something, won't we?

But the game has changed.  We just have to accept that.  Conditions have changed.  The greens are faster, the mowers are better, the equipment, the work on golf courses is better.  The superintendent learns so much more now.  You go back and look at the old films of old golfers when they putted, especially at Augusta, when they putted at Augusta, it was bermuda.  A downhill putt, man, they are hitting like that.  It's just the way time has changed.  In my career I never thought you'd see Augusta grow rough.  It got rough.

But, I mean, this is the game and you accept it and you play it and I love it, part of the competition.  Just wish these kids weren't so damned long.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT