GTE BYRON NELSON GOLF CLASSIC
May 11, 2000
Blaine McCallister
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BLAINE McCALLISTER: I had a good. Solid round of golf. I'm very pleased with it. After
last week, you know, one of those deals last week where you felt a little down, but you
also have a lot of positives to take out of it, and I did that. And today was a good day
for me to go out and focus on what was at hand, and I did that very well and I was very
pleased my ability to go out and do that. A very tough day. Wind conditions kind of
blustery, and I think the toughest part is on the putting surfaces. You know, you can kind
of gauge the wind a little bit and get used to the gusting and so forth, but when you're
on the putting green it's hard to do that because you lose your balance and it's hard to
stay stable out there. The ball -- it's getting close to where the ball is actually moving
on the surface. That's some pretty strong winds, and that was tough conditions. I was very
pleased my round and I played a good, solid round of golf. Made five birdies and one
bogey. My bogey fell on the 9th hole, the par 3. Kind of miss-hit my 6-iron and kind of
floated off to the left. Just off the green and I was kind of lucky it stayed up above the
hazard; and I made a bogey there. I played a good round of golf. I made a good first putt
on the -- second putt on the 1st hole from about six feet; so that was kind of a nice
feeling to go out there and 2-putt the 1st hole after knocking it by six feet. But my
first birdie fell on No. 5. I made about a 12-footer, good 12-foot putt that came from
left-to-right and fell right in the center of the hole. But that's a tough hole any time,
with the wind or without wind. And I followed that up with a birdie on the next hole; put
that about 10 feet and made that. On 5, I hit a 6-iron just out of the left rough and the
ball went through the fairway and just came out in the left rough. Next hole, I laid up
with a 4-wood of the tee and hit a pitching wedge about 10 feet and made that. 9, I hit a
6-iron, just got up in the wind and just gusted it to the left of the green and didn't get
that up and down. Fortunate, really, to have a shot. I thought it might go in the hazard.
Fortunately, it stayed up and made bogey there. But came back with two good pars on 10 and
11 and then hit it about 3 1/2, four feet on the 12th hole and missed it. Hit a 4-iron
about 3 1/2 feet and just missed it. Then I came back and made birdie on 13 from about 12
feet. And I made about a 10-footer or 12-footer on 14 for birdie. 14, I hit a 7-iron from
about -- I think it was 149 yards, really hard right-to-left wind. I walked off the green;
the marshal said it was the first birdie of the day. I said, "Well, good, I hope it's
the only one." (Laughs). Then 15th hole was a great par 4 there. Made my par there. I
got it up-and-down from just off the right edge of the green. And 16, the par 5, I hit it
just in the left rough and hit a 4-wood short of the green. And hit it about a foot,
chipped up there about a foot. Hit a good lob shot just short of the bunker about a foot
and made that for a birdie to go 4-under. This was tough conditions out there. I don't
care which worse course you were playing; it will try your mind out there. I grew up in
the wind. I grew up in west Texas. The wind blows hard. I'm used to this, but when you're
out there in this kind of tournament conditions, it requires a lot more patience from the
standpoint of -- on the surfaces of the green, because you can really get blown around out
there, and you've got to be very patient. And I was very proud of the way I did that
today. 

Q. After last week, there might be a natural tendency to let down a little bit, are you
worried about that at all?

BLAINE McCALLISTER: Yeah, I was worried about it from the standpoint of, you know, I
had a chance to win that golf tournament, and then I let it get away. I mean, I was --
that hurt. You know -- but you know what, I didn't lose any sleep. I mean, I was able to
go to bed and get up the next morning and get on an airplane and fly here. The thing I'm
very happy is my focus on today's round. Last week is gone and I was very pleased what I
did out there today as far as that. I had a lot of people patting me on the back and a lot
of shaking of hands and pulling for me and so forth. Hey, you know, I wasn't trying to
miss that putt. I just did. But I came here with another goal, and that was to play well
and I'm golf to a good start; so I'm excited about that.

Q. After that, was it important for you to get some positive energy early and come out
and play well in the first day?

BLAINE McCALLISTER: No. I'm a very positive guy. I feel like I'm very positive in
anything I do, and I think it was key to me to make sure that I stayed that way, you know,
and focus on this round. Not what happened last week. Don't review what I did. It's gone,
it's over, and I was very good about that today. Today, I went out there and just put the
peg in the ground and hit it and chased it found and hit it again. That's what I was very
happy with. You know, there could have been some thoughts back there if I let them. I told
my caddy, "last week is gone," and we talked about what we're going to do right
now, and that's what I was very happy with.

Q. Your 4-iron on 12, how far was that? 

BLAINE McCALLISTER: 191, I believe is what it was. You'll have to forgive me. I mean,
there's 18 of them. Let me see here. 191. I hit it just 3 1/2 feet. But it was one of
those little left-to-righters, and when the wind kind of gusted on me. I didn't quite hit
if off, and the wind caught it and blew it. But I played with two guys; we all agreed:
This was tough out there, watching the putts that could do some things -- it required a
lot of patience. 

Q. You mentioned being used to the wind, being from west Texas, but do you consider
yourself a good wind player?

BLAINE McCALLISTER: I feel like I can play good golf in the wind. I hit the ball solid
and I let the wind kind of be my friend. I believe that's one thing you've got to be out
there. I mean, you can't try to fight it. You get to fighting the wind, and next thing you
know, you lose the battle because there's -- this kind of wind, the strength of this wind
was very severe today. It was blowing 25, 30 miles an hour and gusting. If you could just
play with the wind, let the wind carry your ball, that's a very small thing, and to get up
in that wind and it's just letting the wind help you as much as you can; and that's what I
did today.

Q. How much did it affect club selection today?

BLAINE McCALLISTER: It varied. Some holes there was two and some holes there was --
you're hitting -- the 3rd hole, I had 196 to the pin and I hit 7-iron. I mean, turned
around, and you know, you could be 160 yards and you're hitting a 5-iron. It's a testing
out there of your mental patience and dealing with that. That's one thing that you've got
to be careful with. You can get caught up in worrying about what the ball is doing with
the wind, and like -- I've always grown up in the wind and my theory is let the wind, like
I said, help you. 

Q. How does this compare to a windy day in Fort Stockton?

BLAINE McCALLISTER: Average. About average. No, this is a little bit above average. But
the windiest day I can recall playing in a golf tournament was -- well, we played a
practice round the day before, and you know how you've got these golf carts with
windshields; you had it floor-boarded into the wind and you weren't going anywhere. That's
windy. How about that. I've hit driver from 130 yards on a par 3. So, I mean, I've seen
wind. What can I tell you? When you grow up out there, there's nothing to stop it, guys.
Shoot, there's nothing out there. I mean, somebody said there was a wildfire burning
43,000 acres out there. I said what's it going to burn? There's nothing there. It's only
going to help it. It was started by lightning. We can can't get rain but we can get
lightning. Where I grew up. It was a 9-hole golf course. We played two sets of tees. And
trust me, the wind did blow. 

Q. Did you reach the green from 130? 

BLAINE McCALLISTER: Yeah, I got it there. I was the only one in the group. We played --
we had to wear a scarf, because the sand, the dust, it would hurt your skin from the --
you know, blowing up out of the wind and hitting you. That's windy. I've learned how to
handle that. 

Q. Where did you hit the wind in your back there?

BLAINE McCALLISTER: I saw a guy drive a 550-yard par 5, one of my teammates. He drove
it pin-high left, just off the edge of the green, 550. How's that? . 

Q. How did he do on the double-eagle putt?

BLAINE McCALLISTER: Luckily, he just had to chip it. He made eagle, but nothing like
chipping for double-eagle. You've all watched "Tin Cup"? Remember where he says
I can a 7-iron farther than you? Remember how he hit it? That's what it's like. I can
remember playing a high school golf tournament where you got to use a tee on every shot
because there was so many rocks in the fairways, you would tear your clubs up. So they
gave you a bunch of tees and you carry those in your pocket because you can tee it up. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT