NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 10, 2018
Darren Fichardt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Things not going to plan, 2-over par but how pleased to get it under par for the day check?  
DARREN FICHARDT: Very pleased.  I felt the three bogeys I made on the front nine, I hit good shots but the wind switched on me.  You have a 5-iron to par 3 and the wind switches, you're going to get yourself into trouble.  I was disappointed with those throw bogeys but I'm glad I finished good.  I'm happy with 1-under.   
 Q.  Steady, not spectacular results recently.  What's been the difference this week?  
DARREN FICHARDT: I've been pretty solid this year.  I think this whole year.  I've only missed five cuts.  I think that's the best I've ever done.  I found something very simple in my swing.  It's a feeling, it's lazy arms, you know.  Something I used to do when I was a lot younger, and I just found my ball-striking is a lot more consistent.  When you're putting for birdies it's a lot easier to create a smooth stroke.  When you're playing for pars, you start getting a bit of shakes over those putts.   
But the game is really solid and I'm in the fairway all the time, which is very important.   
 Q.  You came into the week 72nd in The Race to Dubai and needed to improve slightly to qualify for next week's finale.  You haven't been there since 2014.  How big a goal is that?  
DARREN FICHARDT: Definitely, it's always nice to go to DP.  It's like a little reward to say you've done well in the season, and you know, I just feel like the way I've been playing this year, I feel like I need to be there to give myself a good go.  It will be awesome to get on that Emirates flight to Dubai come Monday.   
 Q.  Lee was telling us no lead is big enough here; how excited to have an opportunity here yourself?  
DARREN FICHARDT: Definitely, it's a tournament we dream about winning.  I think this golf course can be tricky.  You can make a big number very easily.  So I'm glad I'm still there.  I've still got a chance.  Shoot a really good number, a low number tomorrow, might have a chance.   
 Q.  Talking about the wind, how tough was it out there today?  
DARREN FICHARDT: That was really tough.  You hit your driver, it's down out the right and you get to the second shot and it's straight in.  And it's tough to trust it because a lot of times out there today, we thought we had good winds and we hit the shot and it's from the other direction.  You know, you're making -- those pins are tucked away on the sides and stuff, and you know, just on the green and at the back of the green.  It was very easy to miss a green on the short-side.  It's hard to stay patient out there.  Hit really good shots and you walk off with bogey, it's a bit frustrating.   
 Q.  Could have gone sideways after the front nine but you battled that well.  Happy with that?  
DARREN FICHARDT: Very happy with that.  If you fight back, especially when you feel a little depleted; walking off 9, I felt like, here we go, this could be a big number, you know, because shoulders started dropping a bit and started feeling a bit of disappointment.  Made a birdie on 10 and then a really good up-and-down.  I think 12 is what kick-started my round.   
Then I birdied 13, 14.  Really needed that.   
Two pars on 17 and 18.  They are really tough holes.   
 Q.  What do you take from this in terms of momentum going into tomorrow's final round?  
DARREN FICHARDT: I take a lot.  Third round is always a bit of an iffy round.  It's just sort of positioning.  Positioning yourself to get yourself ready to have go, to have a chance at winning.  Yeah, I think I'm where I want to be.   
 Q.  Obviously to win would be one thing but to get into next week and DP would be a big bonus, as well.  
DARREN FICHARDT: Definitely.  I love Dubai.  I love that golf course we play.  As I just said, last time I was there was 2014.  I'm really excited to go out there and be on that Emirates flight to Dubai come Monday evening.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT