VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2004
Darren Fichardt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RODDY WILLIAMS:  Darren, well played, 68, 11-under, tremendous finish with three birdies to finish there.  Sum that up for us.
DARREN FICHARDT:   You know, I started off strong with a birdie and I thought, here we go, it's going to be a great day today.  And then I followed up with a bogey a few holes later.  It was a bit of an up-and-down round today.  I'm still sort of trying to figure out something in my swing but it worked out.  It was good.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Nice to see your name up on top of the leaderboard, you're just a shot behind at the moment, that must be very pleasing.
DARREN FICHARDT:   Yeah, I took a long break, four tournaments back, I took a long break, six weeks and come out now.  This is my fourth tournament and it took me a while to get back into it.  But now I'm really happy to be back up there, and look forward to tomorrow.
Q.  Why did you take those six weeks off?
DARREN FICHARDT:   Because I thought, you know, I'm going to be traveling a lot this year, going to be playing, going to Memorial next week and play there, I'm going to pre-qualify for the U.S. Open, if I still have to, and decided I'm going to travel around a lot this year.  You know, the tournaments that I took off, I just thought, I don't really like those weeks very much, so I decided to keep myself fresh.
Q.  What are you working on more at the moment, driving?
DARREN FICHARDT:   It's basically the swing.  On that time off, I started becoming a bit steep picking it up, so I was trying to  -- right now I'm trying to keep the club along the ground on the way back.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  You changed your caddie, as well, Natasha is no longer on the bag; is that right?
DARREN FICHARDT:   No, no.  I changed caddie at Qatar, when I won Qatar Masters.  He's been on the bag since then.   It's been good.  He's a good friend of mine and has been caddying for me for a while now.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Working well?
DARREN FICHARDT:   Yeah, it's working very well.
Q.  And you and Trevor get on pretty well?
DARREN FICHARDT:   Yeah, we get on pretty well.  All us South Africans get on well.
Q.  It would be nice to follow him into the winner's circle, wouldn't it?
DARREN FICHARDT:   Yeah, it could be great.  It would be really good.
Q.  Why haven't you been back in the winner's circle since winning in Qatar, do you think?
DARREN FICHARDT:   I've been close.  I won a tournament in South Africa, which is good.  But I've just been close.  You know how it goes.  It either happens or it doesn't happen.
Q.  Could we get the details of the last few holes?
DARREN FICHARDT:   On 16, we've been hitting 3-wood all week, just fly over the first bunker on the left, and so we took 3-wood again and I hit it and  -- hit it over the road.  So only had like 60 yards to the flag so I hit it just past the flag and made the putt.

On 17, I hit 3-wood off the tee.  I hit 3-wood just over the back of the green and up-and-down.

Then on 18, I hit 3-wood off the tee again down the fairway, just short of the right-hand side bunker.  I hit a 4-wood on the green and 2-putted.
Q.  Are you going to be aggressive tomorrow?
DARREN FICHARDT:   I'm just going to keep my  -- I consider myself quite an aggressive player as it is, so I'll just try to stay calm, stay within myself and just have some fun.
RODDY WILLIAMS:  Well played.  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT