BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2018
Darren Fichardt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How pleasing was that 66?
DARREN FICHARDT: Obviously very, very happy.  On this golf course, everything's got to be good.  So this time of the year, usually for me has never been good but I took quite a bit of weeks -- quite a few weeks off to prepare for this stretch of Rolex Series Events.  Looks like I made a good choice.  We'll see what happens.  Playing well.
Q. How important was it to keep bogeys off the card in the opening round?
DARREN FICHARDT: You know, I was playing well and felt like I could birdie every hole.
I know the main thing for me, the last 12 years, it's crucial to hit fairways.  If you hit fairways, you've got a good chance at the greens.  There's a lot of sucker pins out there, so you need to respect the course, but there are a few birdies out there and putted really, really well.
So the opportunities I did have, I did make.  Just a couple of holes coming in, I missed quite a few short putts, well, not short putts, but makeable putts, but I'm really happy.
Q. Is there anything specific you've been working on ahead of this week with Wentworth in mind?
DARREN FICHARDT: Definitely.  I've been working hard on my swing just to get a full shoulder turn.  I was very armsy for quite a while and I didn't quite understand why, and something clicked last week when I was busy preparing.
I'm very, very happy the way I'm hitting the ball.  I think it's the best I've hit it in quite some time.  Putting, I've always been pretty solid on the greens.  Just give myself opportunities and make some putts.
Q. You mentioned the Rolex Series, you saved the best until almost last with your finish at the Nedbank.  It would be nice with Italy next week to get off to a good start?
DARREN FICHARDT: I love Italy.  I've always played well in Italy.  With the Rolex Series Events now, you have to keep yourself fresh for these next two months, and I've managed to do that and I'm feeling quite excited and refreshed for what's ahead.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT