BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 26, 2016
Darren Fichardt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DARREN FICHARDT: Hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  You know, I saw Dustin Johnson last week and I saw how patient he was.  He wasn't putting great but he still managed to do pretty good.
I just said to myself, just stay patient.  The greens are obviously soft from the rain.  They were bumpy here and there every now and again, and it turned out pretty well.
Q. I take it the juices are flowing when you're right up at the top of the leaderboard, when it probably hasn't happened for a little while.
DARREN FICHARDT: Yeah, hasn't happened for a little while.  I've been juggling back and forth with swing thoughts and I started getting very technical even the last two years, and I was nowhere basically.  It's nice to play well again.
Q. How conscious were you of the leaderboard and your position on it?
DARREN FICHARDT: I thought the guys were going low until I finished 13, the par 5.  And then I walked past the scoreboard and I saw I was tied for the lead, and I thought, geez, what are the guys doing.  Yeah, 14 was pretty tough; and 15 into the wind; and 16 is no walkover; then I made a good birdie on 17.
Then 18 is just a brutal hole.  You've got to hit the fairway.  Missed the fairway but hit a pretty good chip shot and had a good chance at par there.
Q. So you don't beat yourself up over a bogey at the last?
DARREN FICHARDT: Not at all.  Not at all.
Q. Nor should you.  But sometimes, the disappointment could get you but presumably this week, there's just so many positives, aren't there?
DARREN FICHARDT: Definitely.  I'm very excited for next week.  The way I'm hitting and stuff, I'm hitting it very straight, and I am putting and chipping very well.  I just feel like my old self again.  I feel very excited for the next couple of tournaments.
Q. Le Golf National, do you like it there?
DARREN FICHARDT: You know, when you're not on your game, I hate it there.  But when you're on your game, it's a very rewarding golf course if you're playing well.  Yeah, I'm looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT