COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 4, 2011
Darren Fichardt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DARREN FICHARDT: You want to keep yourself in the mix and that was my goal today. I started off with birdie, bogey, birdie, birdie, bogey. So it was like, I just wanted to keep away from the bogeys. But in the second round, just want to keep yourself in the mix. 

 Q. Would you use the word adventures on a round like that?
 DARREN FICHARDT: In a way it's positive, you're missing greens and you're up-and-downing. If you have a round where you hit every fairway and you're hitting every green, then you don't know what's going to happen. 
 I know now that if I miss the greens, the short game is good enough to get me out of the trouble. So in a way, it's a positive thing that I had a round like did I today.

 Q. Some of that rough can be very penal though, can't it?
 DARREN FICHARDT: Definitely. The rough is very sticky. I don't know, maybe if it's because of the rain they had last week, but the rough is very sticky out there and also it lies down quite a bit. You miss the fairways, you get punished.

 Q. And if you get on the wasteland, as well, you've not always got a shot?
 DARREN FICHARDT: I hit it once in the wasteland today, and I was in a footprint. You've got to keep it in the short stuff. 

 Q. How was it compared to yesterday in terms of the conditions? 
 DARREN FICHARDT: Quite a lot different. It was at least, I would say, two clubs stronger yesterday. So in a way, I find it harder to hit the fairways today because yesterday you just ride the wind. So today, I had to make a little bit of an adjustment with the driver, but yeah, it was with iron shots and putting, obviously it's a lot easier. 

 Q. I take it with all of those fine finishes back in your home country, you're in a very comfortable position?
 DARREN FICHARDT: I've won a lot of tournaments in my career, so for me, I'm going to take it just as another event. There's a hole in the green, there's prize money, so it's just another tournament. I just have to take it like that, shot for shot, and see what happens.

 Q. Sounds like you hate saying it like that, might be a bit boring of an approach but it's what has to be done, doesn't it. 
 DARREN FICHARDT: Yeah, it took me a while to win my first event, and you get so worked up, saying to yourself, you can do it, and get yourself worked up eventually, you just explode. 
 You've just got to go one hole at a time and if I come out on top at the end of the week, good. My game so far is good enough to do it, so we'll just go out tomorrow and not set any -- not jump the gun. 

 Q. And that is all down to experience, maturity?
 DARREN FICHARDT: Definitely. You've got to just play the course and whatever the results, the result, that's how it is. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT