ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
October 31, 2013
Edna Kiplagat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  EDNA KIPLAGAT:   I go into training at that time, and I recovered well, and I'm prepared to come here and place once again.   I believe that I'm ready to come here.  
   
 Q.   You've won before.   What are the keys to this course?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   This is one of the best courses.   It's not a flat course.   It needs a lot of strategy and a lot of mental strength.   And I'm happy when I'm on it.   It's still very fresh in my mind, the whole course.   I'm confident I can win on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   Do you think we'll see a fast race or a tactical race?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Tactical race.  
   
 Q.   You've had a chance in championship‑style races without pacers.   You apply more tactics than speed.   Why do you think you're such a good tactical runner?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   I always plan for every place according to the weather and the terrain.   So we're very careful looking at the conditions for the race day.   So we watch during the week and it helps give me success.  
   
 Q.   You had the World Championships just 11 weeks ago.   What did you do for training?   How much time did you take down?   How would you say your fitness is compared to going into World Championships?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   After World Championships, I took two weeks for recovery, and I had to go back to training because I knew this is a tactical race.   So I didn't want to be too tired from the training.  
   
 Q.   Are you happy with the way it went?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   But you lost to Priscah in London, and she ran a 65‑minute half marathon.   Do you think she's the person to beat?   Is she the one you're focused on?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Of course, I cannot ignore any athlete who has come here because I know Priscah has a lot of speed, but other athletes still are good to run too.  
   
 Q.   What about‑‑ when you trained in your country, have you seen worse things?   Have you seen war?   Have you seen‑‑ I'm just trying to get a little perspective on this one incident for a runner from another country where things are a little different.   Do you know what I mean?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Yeah, I know it's‑‑ I know that everybody is concerned about the security and safety of all the people.   And so when these things happen, it falls upon everybody to come up and help to see that every person is guarded.  
   
 Q.   When you were training or as a girl, did you ever have conflict, dangerous things around you?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   I remember 2008‑‑ I mean, 1998, after we come from World Championships, there was a killing in Nairobi, and it was difficult because after we arrived home, it happened.   Yeah, it always happens someplace where nobody is expecting it.  
   
 Q.   What happened?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   There was a terror attack involving a citizen.  
   
 Q.   In Nairobi, and an athlete was killed?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   In Nairobi, yes.  
   
 Q.   Was it a gun?   Was the person who died, was it someone you knew, you trained with, was a runner?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   It was someone from the city.  
   
 Q.   Do you think about this when you run?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   No.  
   
 Q.   Does it change the way you think?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Yeah, I think there is a lot of security that is happening here.   I know the security is good, and I know that everybody is scared for all the people who have come here.   But I look at the security is good.  
   
 Q.   To win both the World Championships and New York City Marathon, what would that mean to you?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   I know it's going to be great success for me.   If I win this because I'll be ahead of‑‑ I know it will something that I'm going to remember for the rest of my life.  
   
 Q.   Is that your focus, the World Marathon Majors?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   It's my main focus because I'm looking forward to win for the second time.  
   
 Q.   How has training been this year?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Training has gone very well.   I won the world championship, and I've never had any problem until now and looking forward to win the race.  
   
 Q.   Coming back to New York where you've won before.   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   That's pretty special?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Yeah, it's very special because here in New York, I have a lot of fans.   The organization is very good, and I like the course, and everything.   There's a lot of events which is exciting, and there is a lot of fans where everything here in New York is good, and I like it.  
   
 Q.   What do you remember about your win?   What's the biggest memory that you have?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   The biggest memory was that it was one of the biggest races.   It made me get a lot of fame after winning New York, and I can say it was the biggest event for me.  
   
 Q.   Biggest of your life?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Edna, when you're on the course, are you racing against yourself, or are you going to be racing against Priscah since she's right next to you for the championship?   The major championship?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   What is in my mind is to run my‑‑ to run my best because I know I am going to test my time.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel after you won Moscow?   Are you at the top of your game right now, do you think?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Yeah, I think that I'm at my top.  
   
 Q.   You ran your personal best, it was last year.   Do you think you can reach that here in New York?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Yeah.   I try my best and see whether it's going to be good.   Yeah, I try to chase my time.  
   
 Q.   Is New York your favorite course?   I mean, it's the first place you won.   It's much more difficult than, say, London, which is a lot flatter.   What do you think of the course?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   The course here in New York is very tactical, but I have prepared well for it, and everything is going to tie into this.   So I am hoping to go and win.  
   
 Q.   First question we have here, the two‑time reigning world champion just came off the championships in August.   Have you had time to fully recover and rest for New York?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Yes, I took two weeks off, and then I started slowly picking up.   I haven't had any problems so far.   I'm feeling good.  
   
 Q.   So with New York's hilly terrain compared to the other World Marathon Majors, what do you do differently to help you prepare for New York?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   I had to do my training and prepare for a lot of strength and endurance because I know New York is a tactical place.   So I have to do a lot of hill runs so that I could improve in strength.  
   
 Q.   What do you think it will take to be able to beat Priscah and take the world championship this year?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   I use my mental strength because I know she has a lot of speed, but here in New York it needs a lot of perseverance.   And I look to mental strength.   So that's the only way I'm going to do it.   
   
 Q.   This is more of a fun question.   After a big marathon, what do you do to recover?   Do you have any certain routine you typically do?   
EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Just to take some time and go for vacation with my family, yes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT