ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 2, 2012
Edna Kiplagat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   At the Olympics I know that you kind of slowed your pace, and I know that the World Championships you had tripped and fallen. 
    EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Well, I fell down in the water station, so I didn't want to have the same problem I had last year, so I had to be very cautious.

Q.   Did you have difficulty getting here because of the storm of New York?
    EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Yeah, it was difficult because we were supposed to take off, our flights, but fortunately we got a flight coming into Boston.   We were supposed to fly into New York, but we went to Boston and arrived safely. 

Q.   And then flew from Boston to New York?
    EDNA KIPLAGAT:   No, we had a car from Boston to New York.

Q.   Do you know if many Kenyans were not able to come because of the storm?   Do you know how many runners from Kenya will be here as opposed to how many should be here?
    EDNA KIPLAGAT:   I don't know the number, yes.

Q.   After running a 2:19 at the London marathon, do you believe that in the next coming years you can get faster and faster, maybe closer to Paula Radcliffe's 2:17 time?
    EDNA KIPLAGAT:   I believe if everything goes well, I will try to improve my time from 2:19, if everything goes well.

Q.   Can you compare your fitness coming into New York this year with the year that you won? 
    EDNA KIPLAGAT:   The year I won I didn't run any races in July, but this year I was in the London Marathon and the Olympics, so I know it's going to be different one.   This year for sure I train well, but I don't know how it's going to happen on Sunday. 

Q.   How much time did you take off between the Olympics?   Did you take several days off or a week off without training, or did you just immediately go back to training?
    EDNA KIPLAGAT:   I took one week off. 

Q.   With the World Marathon Majors prize at stake here, if you win, you win that, as well, will that affect your strategy at all during the race, knowing it was important to win? 
    EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Well, for sure I know I'm going for the World Majors, but no, I don't want to put it in my mind because I know it's going to be a difficult strategy.   But no, I'm hoping for the win.

Q.   And if you win, you'll get the World Marathon Majors prize. 
    EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Yeah.

Q.   Have you raced a lot against Sharon Cherop in major races?
    EDNA KIPLAGAT:   No, I have not raced a lot with her. 

Q.   You know that a lot of the women in the field have also won the LA Marathon in the past.   Do you feel in your mind that you're able to beat them?   I know you've never raced against each other, but in terms of times and finishing the LA Marathon, do you think that factors in against the competition? 
    EDNA KIPLAGAT:   When I run in LA, it was the second marathon.   But for now I've done several marathons, so I believe that my preparation was for this race, so I believe that everybody is going for the win.   I believe that we are going to have a good competition, and I'm happy for Sunday that I'm going to have a strong competition. 

Q.   How do you think your experience on this course might help you against some of those other women? 
    EDNA KIPLAGAT:   My experience about this course is that whoever is strong on the back hills is going to survive because I know it's going to be the last five kilometers, whoever is going to survive the last kilometers is going to win the race.   I know they are going to wait for the last five kilometers to see how they are going to finish the race. 

Q.   Do you feel you have a benefit because you know those last five kilometers very well?
    EDNA KIPLAGAT:   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT