ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 7, 2010
Mary Keitany
Edna Kiplagat
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   RICHARD FINN: Another big day for Kenyan marathoners. We have our champion, Edna Kiplagat from Kenya, finishing time of 2:28:20, this was Edna's first New York City Marathon. She had won in the L.A. Marathon earlier this year. Making her marathon debut, Mary Keitany, our third place finisher at 2:29:01. Edna, some thoughts about today's very exciting race as you broke away from Mary and Shalane Flanagan?   
 EDNA KIPLAGAT: The race today had gone well. As we started, my body did not respond as I thought. But as we were around 20 miles, that's when I started picking up.   
 The field was very strong, but First Avenue was a little bit slow, but we started picking up from then.   
 When we were in the 24th mile, I tried to put more effort. I found myself pulling away from the field, so I was excited when I reached 25 miles because that's when I found I was ahead of the other ladies, Mary and Shalane.   
 When I crossed the finish line, I was so happy.   
 RICHARD FINN: Mary, your thoughts on your very first marathon. Third place, and a great run. Your thoughts, Mary.   
 MARY KEITANY: Okay, for me I thank God because of the victory that's to be in that position, because I know it was my first time to attempt this for the 42 kilometers. So I'm happy. Maybe I will go back and train so maybe next time I'll win.   
 RICHARD FINN: Questions?   
  
  Q. Edna, the pace at the beginning, were you worried that it was going to be -- did you feel it was to your advantage to have that kind of slow pace at the beginning?   
 EDNA KIPLAGAT: Yeah, because when we were every mile I was feeling it was a little slow than the pace we took in Los Angeles. But I had the feeling that it will increase as we go along.  
  
  Q. When you go back and train for the marathon, what will be different? Do you find maybe the marathon is more about power than speed, and how will you address that?   
 MARY KEITANY: Because the first half marathon was okay for me because we close at 75, so it was somewhat slow. But when I arrived at 2:40, that's where I feel I was very tired. So I was saying when I go home I'll try to train a bit, I put more effort.  
  
  Q. This year has been tremendous for you. I mean, financially you've made probably close to $300,000. What do you think of all the accolades and how you're on a totally new level profile-wise?   
 EDNA KIPLAGAT: This year has gone very well with me, starting with Los Angeles. I'm happy that I've closed the year with New York success. So everything has gone well as I planned.   
 So I know whatever I'm going to get for this year, there are some plans that I am going to use whatever I've got in the right way.   
 RICHARD FINN: This is Edna's fourth win of the year, all on roads.  
  
  Q. Mary, tell us about how your first marathon felt overall? Was it a surprise? Did it feel easier than you thought it would be? Your overall feelings of running your first marathon?  
 MARY KEITANY: Because I know how I trained so, I mean the last competitive competition which I did was 25 kilometers, then after that I trained and I go for the long runs. To the 38 kilometers so I was really ready for this race.  
  
  Q. Once you had pulled away and you're in the lead, did you have a doubt that somebody would come back? Did you look back, did you fear or were you confident that you were winning at that point?   
 EDNA KIPLAGAT: I had to look back several times because you cannot -- you have to watch out because anything can happen before you cross the finish line. Someone can try to come. You can find out that someone can come closer to you. So I had to look back several times.   
 RICHARD FINN: Were you happy when you looked back and you didn't see anybody that close?   
 EDNA KIPLAGAT: Yes (smiling).  
  
  Q. When you look back and you realize that you were going to win, what was going through your mind and what is the first thing that you thought about when you crossed the finish line?   
 EDNA KIPLAGAT: Being excited.   
 RICHARD FINN: Well, we were very excited. It was a fabulous race, and we congratulate both of you, Edna for the Championship, and Mary for making a fabulous marathon debut. We welcome you both back and thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT