NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
March 31, 2000
Helen Darling
Andrea Garner
Rene Portland
Lisa Shepherd
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







COACH RENE PORTLAND: All of us involved in Lady Lion basketball would like to
congratulate the University of Connecticut and wish them the best in what will be a great
basketball game on Sunday between Tennessee and Connecticut. We wish Connecticut and
Tennessee also the best. We feel tonight that there was a hard-fought game for about
approximately three minutes, and we got it back and the last seven minutes they really
just pulled away, for whatever reason. They did a terrific job on the boards. Tonight they
really attacked us in the paint, and most of their points in the second half came from in
the paint area, and it was a great game up until that time. But I think our players played
hard, and the experience of being here at the Final Four is a positive one for the
program.

Q. Helen, can you describe, personally how frustrating this game was for you tonight? 

HELEN DARLING: Why would you think it was frustrating for me? 

Q. Was it? 

HELEN DARLING: I don't think it was very frustrating at all. It was just -- it was just
an off-night for me. It there was nothing I can do about it but continue to play hard. I
think that's what I did and try to pick it up defensively and create some turnovers.
Offensively, I wasn't playing well and you have those nights sometimes.

Q. Can you take about how you guys seemed to be getting within four points but could
never get over the hump and what seemed to happen at that point? 

ANDREA GARNER: For a while we scored, they scored; we never got any good stops down on
their end where we could take the lead. They kept coming right back at us and we just kept
playing point-for-point, and you can't do that. You know, you can't win games like that.
We had to get some defensive stops and we just didn't get them when we needed to.

Q. Could you talk about the emotions of playing at home and assess your game a little
bit tonight? 

ANDREA GARNER: It is great to be back here. You have a great crowd. You know, all my
family, all of the people from Penn State, they came down, the Penn State alumni from
Philadelphia. It was just a great crowd. You know, we had a lot of people here supporting
us and for me it just got me really excited. I think in the beginning I really had to calm
myself down because we tried to do so much for the people that are watching. It was just,
it was great for me. Even though we didn't win, I'm very proud of our team and just to be
able to get here is an accomplishment in itself. 

Q. Can you talk a little bit about their perimeter defense and the job they did on you
and Chrissy?

LISA SHEPHERD: I think they did a really good job. We worked on practice, trying to get
the back doors, and their pressure D was very good. I think we could have did a better job
of maybe getting open a little bit more. 

Q. Could you talk about what it was like playing the post and how hard it was tonight
going up against UCONN? 

ANDREA GARNER: They have great post players, and they are deep in their post area. We
are used to being physical. You know, I don't know, there's nothing that we've never seen
before. They just really go deep in their post and they can get a fresh pair of legs out
every couple minutes if they wanted to. I think that was probably one of the biggest
things, but we are used to a physical game, and we play in the Big-10; it's always
physical in the post area, and it wasn't anything we haven't seen before.

Q. Were you satisfied with the tempo tonight or was it played more at UCONN's pace? 

COACH RENE PORTLAND: I think there were times when we set things up. In the beginning,
I think we broke their press and then we were a little helter-skelter; so I guess it was
at their pace. The majority of the game, certainly the last seven minutes certainly was at
their pace. Obviously, we looked tired and they were just running right past us at that
stage of the game; they pounded inside. That's the pace they like to play at. We were
successful doing what we were doing for 33 minutes of the game. 

Q. In the first half you really got a nice charge off the bench from Rashana Barnes and
Katrena Carr. Could you talk about what they brought to the table in the first half?

COACH RENE PORTLAND: Same thing they brought to the table in the first half. Rashana is
such a great rebounder for us, and she makes things happen. She has some blocks and she
has developed a real nice jumper. Just a matter of getting her more minutes and more time,
which is ahead of her. Katrena stuck to the game plan tonight somewhat. Sometimes she
takes off on a planet of her own. She was attacking. We needed to attack their defense and
try to get them off us and we did the best we could. 

Q. Could you talk about not being able to get closer than four and what seemed to be
the sticking point there?

COACH RENE PORTLAND: I think Andrea answered it best. We got it within four, and at
halftime we walked in the locker room and said, "Okay, it's not double digits."
We got it to nine; we scored on the last play. There was some momentum going into
halftime. First five minutes, we came out and played relatively strong, efficiently the
first three minutes, and they came right back and did their thing. But we got it to within
four and then we just matched buckets. And I don't know if this is the most points we've
given up this season, but it would have to be in the top of that, and I just don't -- our
defense just broke down immensely. 

Q. To get here to the Final Four, can you talk about the strides you guys have made
this year and what's the prospects for your program in the future?

COACH RENE PORTLAND: I think it's really exciting when you walk in the locker room.
Certainly there were tears and some thank you messages from our senior players to the
younger players and also some messages from our seniors to the younger players about now
you've been here, now you've seen it. And we do have so many of our players returning next
season. Rashana and Katrena will jump into spots for us. We feel our recruiting class is
extremely strong, but getting to the Final Four has made two of my assistant's jobs a
whole lot easier. They will be able to recruit very, very well in the upcoming season of
recruiting. We've already got a verbal commitment from a junior. So the future of Lady
Lion basketball is very, very strong and a lot has to do with the senior class.

Q. Can you comment about how physical the play was down low tonight? Were you expecting
that kind of game out of UCONN? 

COACH RENE PORTLAND: You expect anything at this stage of the game. We were a little
frustrated by some of the physical play, but, you know, it was consistent. You have to go
right back at them, and they just did a real good job of being consistent in that area.

Q. Coach Auriemma said in the end, it always comes down to rebounding and defense. How
good was Connecticut's tonight against you?

COACH RENE PORTLAND: I think their defense was very, very good, but their rebounding
situation was tremendous. We went into this game thinking, you know, last few games we
have rebounded very, very well. Their second attempts were very, very strong. They went to
the bucket. They were -- we were not checking out as well as we were, and previous games
-- and Geno's correct; to us, rebounding is the answer to everything. And to them that
gets their fast break started and they like to press when they shoot 49 percent, that
gives them a whole lot of opportunities to press.

Q. Can you talk a little bit about their depth? 

COACH RENE PORTLAND: We only played eight people. I was a little surprised about that
because everybody keeps talking about eight, nine, ten, but if you look, their starters
played a whole lot of minutes tonight. It's war time, and you go with the people you want
to be in your fox hole with. Their dunk kids go in the post position and do a nice job,
but their guards stayed on the floor for a whole long time. And I think tonight he was --
he didn't have to be that deep. He stuck with the starters, and the starters are the ones
that took him to the Championship game.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT