U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2014
William Zalatoris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  WILLIAM ZALATORIS: I think this side's actually a tougher driving course, reason being the penalty is trees not just rough.  The other side you get tight fairways.  Fairways are tighter than here, but the penalties aren't as large.  It's just a longer golf course.  So the penalties that come into play are really around the greens. I'm telling you, this side usually at a containing course you're right around 7,000, 7,100; you're playing a 7300-yard containing course.   Q.  Obviously, you're no stranger to USGA Championships.  You just won one.  But what is your mindset going into a stroke play round today?  WILLIAM ZALATORIS: Just kind of the same thing.  I can't win it today, I can't even win it on Saturday.  So just take one step at a time.  First goal to make match play, then after that, get in the round of 64, beat that guy.  Just one at a time.  I can't win the championship on the first tee either.   Q.  What was working well for you today?  WILLIAM ZALATORIS: I just scrambled really well.  I didn't really have a very good middle six.  The beginning and end was very solid.  If I missed a green, I was making up-and-down.  But the other part too is I didn't make many mistakes.  I wasn't in any bunkers today, and if I made a mistake, I was just in the rough.  The one bogey I made today was kind of just a little bit of a mistake.  I was just off the green with a putter and didn't hit it.  Didn't get through the Zoysia.   Q.  Was there a key up-and-down or somewhere where you saved a stroke?  WILLIAM ZALATORIS: The shot on 6 today.  I hit a 6-iron from 210 and hit it to about a foot.  Obviously that was sort of my round, but that was one where I really kind of gave me a kick going so coming in hard.  So obviously on the scorecard it's just a par, but that was one of the best two-putts I've ever had.   Q.  Of all the success you've had recently, did you have a certain amount of confidence or different look when you play golf now?  WILLIAM ZALATORIS: Oh, sure.  When you play well, you feel like you can do anything or pull off any shot, but I'm still going through the same process of things even if I wasn't playing as well, it's just hitting aggressive swings at conservative targets. So even though if you look at the math, I'm doing a little better than I have in the past, so that just means I'm giving myself more chances.  Kind of the same goal, if I come out here and hit as many greens as possible, one of them is going to fall.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT