BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 18, 2017
Noa Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NOA MERRITT: Hello, everybody.   
 Q.  Ty just told us that it looks like you're really going to have to put pressure on the Iowa quarterback, he's just so efficient and smart back there.  What is the D-line's position on him?  
NOA MERRITT: He's a great athlete.  You could definitely tell he's definitely a really experienced guy.  We're just going to try to stay true to our technique and do what we can to get to him.   
 Q.  How has the line come together.  When Harold got hurt, it seemed like everybody's game picked up because you lost such a dynamic player.  Could you just address that a little bit?  
NOA MERRITT: Harold's an excellent player.  He's a really good player.  We have really good chemistry here, and we have good next-man-up mentality.  So Harold did a great job with the guys behind him, and he really worked with them well.   
Like I said, we had really good cohesion, so it doesn't matter who is out there.  We trust each other to do our job.   
 Q.  Is that why Wyatt and Zack have been able to get pressure on the outside?  
NOA MERRITT: Exactly.   
 Q.  It's the tackles and how you all work together?  
NOA MERRITT: Yeah, it's helped a lot.  As you said, Zack and Wyatt are tremendous athletes and they're really premiere-type guys.  When they put the pressure on the quarterback and he steps up, it allows us to do our job a little bit easier.   
 Q.  Coach had mentioned he thinks it's going to be a game of fundamentals because both teams stick to the keys.  How do you make sure that with the time off, you still stick to your keys and not get into bad habits because you haven't played so much?  
NOA MERRITT: Like you said, Coach P. said it's a game of fundamentals, so we've been honing in on that in our individual periods.  Just making sure that we don't fall a step behind and making sure we attack every day like the game is the next day.  We attack every day.   
Like I said, we just make sure that doesn't happen.  Coach P. makes sure we don't have a lapse in that, and we just keep honing the little things.   
 Q.  You're going to get a chance to play close to home.  What's it like going to Yankee Stadium and playing in a bowl?  
NOA MERRITT: It's a really good experience.  I went there my freshman year.  We didn't get the outcome we would have liked, but this year we definitely plan on making things change, being a part of that is a great experience.   
 Q.  When you're down on the field, do you try to envision what it looks like as a diamond instead of as a football field?  
NOA MERRITT: Not really.  I mean, sometimes I do look up and just get a little star struck for a second.  Being at Yankee Stadium and growing up in Jersey, it's a staple of northeast athletics.  So it's really a great experience, just finally being a part of something like that, something bigger than yourself is really cool.   
 Q.  I just wanted to ask you about playing with Ike, and him winning the McGillis Award, and his development since you've seen it since you guys have played together for a while?  
NOA MERRITT: Ike is a tremendous player.  He's a good friend.  He's a real ball guy.  So when he won the award to me, I just knew it was coming.  I couldn't think of anybody else in my mind that's more deserving of such accolades.  He's grown so well as a player and he's just a great friend of mine.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT