NL DIVISION SERIES: GIANTS VS CUBS
October 9, 2016
Madison Bumgarner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Who has the first question, please?
Q. Where does your mentality come from, your calm that you seemingly have, that you seem unaffected by anything out on the mound and afterwards for that matter?
MADISON BUMGARNER: Just preparation and work ethic I think is the best answer I could give you.  I work on being that way.  And it don't always happen.  You're going to mess up from time to time, but that's just the mindset that I try to have going into the game.
Q. How much attention do you put on other pitchers hitting ability?  Do you discern much between them, or are they all just pitchers to you when they come to hit?
MADISON BUMGARNER: Oh, no, no, that's the last thing any pitcher wants to do is give up a hit to another pitcher.  So you want to -- some guys you can afford to kind of go after a little more, and some guys you got to pitch them like a hitter, and some guys you might pitch tougher than a hitter because you really don't want to take a chance on giving up a hit to them and getting something started, so you might pitch them a little tougher even.
Q. Do you remember them specifically when you pitch against them?
MADISON BUMGARNER: No, I know they can swing the bat a little bit.  You're going to have to make pitches to them.  You're not going to sit there and throw three fastballs by him.
Q. How much talk has there been the last I guess 12 hours or so, what you guys did in 2012, the fact you've been here before and kind of have that experience?
MADISON BUMGARNER: There hasn't been a whole lot of talk because everybody knows what kind of spot we're in.  Only thing we can do is come in and win tomorrow.  That's it's.  Win or go home.
So only thing he we can do is focus on winning tomorrow.  If we do that, then we get to do it again and so on.
Q. Knowing this team so well from all the years you've played here, how would you describe the resilience of this team from what you know?
MADISON BUMGARNER: It's pretty impressive.  Especially with the young guys we have, they kind of followed suit pretty easily.  And it's just a really good vibe that everyone puts off here.  And the mentality that we have, there's definitely no panic, I wouldn't say that at all, but we got a lot of guys that are ready to show up and play ball.
Q. What's the challenge, if there is one, for you to not get caught up in the reputation that you're building for yourself?  Joe Maddon just mentioned Kaufax and Bob Gibson and Whitey Ford with you with your postseason success?
MADISON BUMGARNER: Well, you can't.  As soon as you start buying into that, that's probably going to take a turn.  So I'm just going to go out there and keep going at it the way I have, and whatever happens, happens.
Q. Just building off that, when you're out there performing in these big spots and it looks like you're hitting every spot you want and you're throwing the pitches where you want them to be, are you like aware that your game is up to that level when you're actually doing it, or in the moment are you just not paying attention to it at all?
MADISON BUMGARNER: No, I'm paying attention.  And the thing is, when you come in for games like tomorrow and games like the Wild Card game, you have to have your stuff, have you to have your best stuff.  You can't go out there and just try to get by.  Chances are it's not going to work out for you.
So, you just got to try to find a way and go out there and compete, and that's it.  It's a lot simpler than it is, I guess.
Q. Obviously your primary concern is their lineup, but what impresses you about Jake Arrieta, the way he pitches, and what do you remember from that meeting you had earlier this last month?
MADISON BUMGARNER: Yeah, he's one of the best.  There's no doubt about that.  The last couple years for sure.  It's just he's got really good stuff, number one.  His command's pretty good.  I know at times he's had rough goes with that, but, I mean, he's good.  His stuff's what stands out above everything else though.
Q. Obviously you faced him during the regular season, but from this series, what right now do you think -- what challenges does the Cubs lineup present during this series?
MADISON BUMGARNER: Well, they got a good all-around team up and down the lineup -- starters, bullpen, everything.  So you just -- like I said earlier, you got to be on your game and going to have to make pitches.  And hopefully things will work out for us.  But we're going to go out there and give it everything we got, and we can live with the result knowing that we did that.
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT