NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CARDINALS v GIANTS
October 13, 2012
Madison Bumgarner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you describe what it was like for you guys, I guess you were actually sitting on the plane watching the game and what was it like not knowing where you were going and what did you think about what the Cardinals were doing?
MADISON BUMGARNER:   That was a pretty unbelievable game.   I thought for sure we were going to be going to DC.   They jumped out to a 6‑0 lead, but they fought their way back.   And there was positives to both for us.   So it was nice to get to come home and have the home field advantage, too.   It's nice.

Q.   As you were watching the game were you already starting to mentally prepare for Washington?   At what point in the 9th inning did you sort of say, I don't need to prepare for Washington anymore (laughter)?
MADISON BUMGARNER:   At the beginning you didn't know.   Obviously a little more later on, did kind of start focusing more on Washington.   But at the same time, still watching both teams.
When they got the lead, when they took the lead I figured we were coming here for sure.   But you never know with this game.   So we still watched.   But it was pretty incredible.

Q.   A lot has happened obviously since your last start.   How eager are you to get back on the mound after what occurred in Game 2 of the Division Series?
MADISON BUMGARNER:   Yeah, I'm ready to get back out there.   I had a lot of rest and just excited to get started and get us started on a good note and just go out there and make pitches and have the focus I need to have.   And hopefully things will take care of themselves.

Q.   As you grow up people are always telling you anything can happen in sports and it's never over.   Did that game last night in the 9th inning prove to you anything you didn't know?
MADISON BUMGARNER:   I think what we did proved to a lot of people that it's not over until it's over, because pretty much everybody counted us out and we were able to fight back.   It was just another reference point watching the Cardinals do it last night.

Q.   The key to that first run, the bullpen was so good against the Reds, bailed you out of tough starts.   What are your thoughts on the job with what the relievers did?   And secondly, has there been much talk among the starters that it's your turn to carry the load?
MADISON BUMGARNER:   First of all, the bullpen did a great job.   The bullpen did a great job.   Offense, the starters battled.   It was just a great series for everybody.   But we all know what we've got to come in here and do, so there hasn't been a whole lot of talk about it. 

Q.   What do you need to do a little differently than the last start to go deeper in the game and have a better quality postseason start?
MADISON BUMGARNER:   You know, I felt good last time, just things didn't go my way.   That's the way this game is.   Just got to go out there and be focused and be at the top of your game and make pitches.   You can't get caught up in what's happening, you've got to focus on the next pitch and just keep moving forward. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT