MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ROYALS
October 25, 2014
Madison Bumgarner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   There was a report yesterday that you told teammates before the game, "I'm going to be starting Game 4."   Can you kind of comment on that? 
MADISON BUMGARNER:   I've seen that.   I never said anything like that.   Obviously, I'd be available if they wanted to go in that direction, which is not my call.   But when it comes to this time of year, you've got to be ready anytime you're called upon. 
We knew that might be an option, but at the same time, everybody in that clubhouse has all the confidence in the world in Vogey.   And again, that comment, that was out of nowhere.   I never said anything remotely like that, so I don't know where it came from.

Q.   Bochy said you've worked very hard this postseason.   Do you agree with the idea that standard rest will make you more effective tomorrow? 
MADISON BUMGARNER:   That's tough to say.   There is really no way of knowing.   I feel as good as I've felt all year right now, which is fortunate for me.   It's tough.   It usually don't work out that way, but for whatever reason, everything started clicking in the last probably two months, and I've been feeling really good.

Q.   I wanted to ask you, you've thrown 256 innings between the regular season and the postseason, after 201 last year, does it take a toll on you?   Are there ways you have to combat that to stay fresh?   Because that's quite a bit of an increase. 
MADISON BUMGARNER:   I don't think the increase‑‑ we went through this in 2010, I believe, where it was like 75 more innings than I threw before.   I don't think that has anything to do with anything.   I work hard and take care of myself, and I think that's what's important, is that you get your work in, take care of your body and make sure you're ready.

Q.   Even though you've successfully debunked that quote that was attributed to you, would you not agree in a pleasant way that it's a good attribute to be heaved in your direction? 
MADISON BUMGARNER:   I don't know if that quote's a good attribute.   It sounds like I'm trying to run the team, which I'm certainly not.   That's no good that that got out there somehow.   It don't make any sense to me why that would happen.   I never said anything to anyone about anything.   We knew that was an option, and I'm prepared where I would be ready for Game 4 or 5 or any of them.   That's just ridiculous.

Q.   So you pitch tomorrow night and then if it goes to Game 7 would you be available, which would be on short rest? 
MADISON BUMGARNER:   I'm always available.

Q.   Are you available to pinch‑hit? 
MADISON BUMGARNER:   Absolutely (laughing).   I don't know if they want me to, but I'm available.

Q.   You mentioned altering the routine between starts so there would be the option to use you today instead of tomorrow.   What was the explanation given to you about why they were going to do that, if they were so insistent they weren't going to use you? 
MADISON BUMGARNER:   What's that now? 

Q.   Why did they say to you alter your routine‑‑
MADISON BUMGARNER:   They didn't tell me to.   I knew that it would be an option, and we talked just briefly about it.   So I wanted to make sure I was prepared.   It's not really anything.   You just back off everything a little bit because you would be going on one day shorter rest.   It's not really a big deal.   You just back off a little bit, which can be good this time of year anyway.

Q.   So that was more your wanting to make yourself available than them telling you change your routine and back off? 
MADISON BUMGARNER:   It was a mutual thing.

Q.   You've seen your team with its back against the wall before.   What do you see in your teammates when they're in situations like this? 
MADISON BUMGARNER:   You know, there is no panic.   I mean, there is obviously a sense of urgency, but there is no panic.   A lot of guys have been in a lot worse position than we are right now, and were able to come through with some wins and on top.   We've got a lot of guys that know what it takes. 
At the same time, you've got to realize it's the World Series and you're playing a really good team, both sides.   You don't get here without being really good. 
So we've just got to go out there and you can't worry about the stuff you can't control.   I know you hear it all the time, but that's the key to success in this game, I believe.   You can't worry about what you can't control, and you've got to go out there and make sure you're ready mentally and physically to play fundamentally sound baseball.

Q.   You're very successful against this team in Game 1.   Could you share, if possible, some of the things that you learned from that game that may help you now in this next outing? 
MADISON BUMGARNER:   No (laughter). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT