PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2010
Stu Ingraham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I'm sure it's been a couple long days, but talk about how you're feeling right now.  
 STU INGRAHAM: Well, I'm tired. I played 28 holes today and I got here with the fog delay it seems like it's been, it looks like physically it's about 12 hours and, you know, it is what it is. You can't control the weather. It's still a good experience, I still enjoyed myself.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 STU INGRAHAM: I don't think so. I think that I'm the oldest club pro, playing at age 50, you know, it definitely got to me a little bit. 28 holes in this in the heat and humidity it kind of got to me a little bit. And I got a broken finger here that can you see. But I hung in there. I wound up shooting 3-over today for the second round. So it was okay. I felt good.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 STU INGRAHAM: It does mean a lot. At age 50 I wasn't sure I would ever get back here and I was able to get back here. And it feels good. But I played okay, I had some good stretches, I had some good fun. Birdied the first two holes out of the gate yesterday and I almost made birdie on the third hole to go into second place, but it lipped out.  
 But, yeah, we had a great experience.  
  
  Q. What do you take from your experience here this past week?  
 STU INGRAHAM: Well, you know, I would take the fact that I'm realizing that I used to be fairly long, and now I'm not as long anymore, so but I would say what I took away is that I appreciate the good people at the PGA.  
  
  Q. Have you played in any events like this before?  
 STU INGRAHAM: I've played in six, this is my sixth PGA, but I never played, I played in 20 National Club Pros, six PGAs and two Cup teams but I would say, you know, this is very similar to all the rest, I think the difference is probably now the fact is I'm older and I can tell a little bit in my length and feel at the end of the day is definitely different. I would say the fog delay did not help me as a 50 year old. Would I say that. But I'm not making excuses, but it didn't help me. But I would say bottom line is that I had a great time and it was a great experience, I loved it.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT