US OPEN
August 31, 2000
Lilia Osterloh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about the end of that second set, she goes -- did you think she was
just going to go to the rest room; then she didn't come back or how did it happen?

LILIA OSTERLOH: After the second set I just thought okay, third set, last -- final set,
let us just battle it out and she took a bathroom break. I noticed like she was really red
in the face. It was really humid out, and we were moving each other side to side, just
having fun out there and I didn't know it was that severe and I said I was playing really
well out there. I fought hard to come back in the first and I was on a mission and it was
-- second set she just let loose and started hitting winners down the line out of really
nowhere. But I really had no idea that she would have to retire. I hope I can play her
again.

Q. How long was she gone before they said she is finished?

LILIA OSTERLOH: I didn't have the stopwatch on me. I know the rule is like when the
trainer is called, out it is 3 minutes. Then they had to wait for the doctor. That was the
rule, so she had to retire.

Q. Do you know what happened to her?

LILIA OSTERLOH: I just know she was cramping. That is really -- because she was like in
the bathroom secluded so I really didn't see any of it.

Q. Conditions were pretty bad out there?

LILIA OSTERLOH: Well, I like humid conditions, but it was hot. When the sun came out it
felt pretty brutal, but I mean, the conditions, we both have to deal with.

Q. Did you feel okay?

LILIA OSTERLOH: Yeah.

Q. Probably used to it, you train in Florida?

LILIA OSTERLOH: Yes, and Ohio, and it is very humid in both places so -- and I like the
heat even though I grew up in Ohio, I still like it. And yeah, I feel good. I feel good
about my game and ready to go play some mixed doubles. 

Q. You mentioned a couple of times you are on a mission. Is there anything -- want to
win, why mission?

LILIA OSTERLOH: Well, I mean, it is my third year on tour and I really want to make the
next jump into the top 50 and this should help, so just want to gradually work my way up.
As long as I am feeling good, good things will happen.

Q. I heard you started by hitting balls against your garage. Talk about how you got
into tennis?

LILIA OSTERLOH: My parents played recreationally at a local club. My older sister
played and she attended a university in Chicago.

Q. On the college team?

LILIA OSTERLOH: Yes. And really what inspired me was just watching Chris Evert and
Martina Navratilova and watching them at Wimbledon and I wanted to be there some day and I
stuck with it. I did a lot of sports when I was younger, gymnastics mainly, and
basketball, but tennis was like the main one I had a lot of success in and I really
enjoyed that.

Q. How much of a boost does your Wimbledon performance give you?

LILIA OSTERLOH: Nothing really changed. It was just I had a good tournament but it
helps, but it is just another tournament. It is Wimbledon, but yet it is not that big of a
deal. But I was really happy that I did well there. 

Q. Is the U.S. open a bigger deal?

LILIA OSTERLOH: This is one of my favorite tournaments and I feel really comfortable
here. I think that shows when I am playing on the court.

Q. You mentioned that you had a new coach recently and that he was one of the toughest
coaches you have ever had. What makes him so tough? What is his name?

LILIA OSTERLOH: Billy Stearns. He is out in Sarasota, Florida. I also work with Ola
Malmquist who is with the U.S.T.A., and they have been working together here and also
Lynne Rolley helps me out, so it is a good team to have and it is a good circle. Billy, I
don't know, you will have to work with him. I mean, I can't really give away any of his
secrets. It is just something that he has.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT