US OPEN
August 29, 1997
Lilia Osterloh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 LILIA OSTERLOH: I played a warm-up in Atlanta. This is my first pro event here. 
 
Q. What do you think of the group of young American girls compared to, say, the eastern
Europeans? Do you think the next five years you guys are going to be competing
successfully against them?
 
 LILIA OSTERLOH: Oh, definitely. I think that even though the Americans were really
competitive and it is always "me, me, me," I think that the younger girls, I
mean, we are starting to help each other out a lot. We like to practice together and, you
know, support each other during our matches or whatever. And, I think that definitely that
can only help us. I think we are going to continue to be really competitive out there. 
 
Q. Why do you think it is that you have like a Hingis or a Lucic at 15 or 16 become so
incredible or dominant, but you rarely see that with the American girls?
 
 LILIA OSTERLOH: Well, I think with the Americans, we emphasize education more and
tennis isn't really a popular sport over there. And I just think that maybe not enough
kids play tennis. I mean, they pick up a basketball or baseball or something, whatever is
available to them. But, I think we do emphasize education more, at least my parents did,
and, so that is why I chose to go to school. And they were around tennis their whole life. 
 
Q. So what is your plan for the rest of the fall?
 
 LILIA OSTERLOH: I am going to go home and train some more and then play some
Challengers out west and California and Arizona to get my ranking up. 
 
Q. Did Cramer turn pro?
 
 LILIA OSTERLOH: No. She is going back to Stanford. 
 
Q. So you are happy about that?
 
 LILIA OSTERLOH: I think she can do both, really. I think she can balance both, her
studies and tennis. I think Coach Brennan will let her play some more pro events
hopefully. I hope so because we travel together a little bit, and last year just in
Challengers, we did pretty well. So, she's little bit older. She is I think around 21, so,
I am not quite sure what she wants to do. 
 
Q. Are you amazed that you got to the third round or has it sunk in that you made it
this far?
 
 LILIA OSTERLOH: Well, I mean, I had a good run. And for not competing again for eight
weeks, I am really happy and I learned a lot from this match against Spirlea. I respect
her a lot and I can only grow from this match. 
 
Q. Do you see yourself as a top a player in the future?
 
 LILIA OSTERLOH: I'd like to think that. Right now, I need to build more confidence and
get really, you know, more fit and, I mean, we will just see. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT