NBA DRAFT
June 27, 2013
Tony Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TONY MITCHELL
  Detroit, No. 37

THE MODERATOR:   Tony, start with an opening statement about your experience so far tonight. 
TONY MITCHELL:   It was a blessing.   Just to get my name called.   Being in this position I'm in right now for me and my family, right now I'm just ready to play.   Ready to play.   Prove to myself I'm an NBA talent. 

Q.   Tony, talk about, do you regret your decision not coming out last draft or do you feel like it's just things happen for a reason? 
TONY MITCHELL:   Not at all.   Not at all.   Things happen for a reason.   I just have to prove myself right now.   Guys were selected in front of me.   You still got to step on the court and lace up your shoes and play.   So at this point, man, I'm just ready to play. 

Q.   Speaking of ready to play, how focused are you to be very competitive, because you have guys like Drummond up front and Greg Monroe and those guys, to get minutes? 
TONY MITCHELL:   Just being competitive each and every day.   Play your hardest.   You have guys that are in the league.   You weren't selected at all for no reason, you know what I'm saying?   I'm just ready to compete and play. 

Q.   I know you've talked in the past about how crazy your interview was with the Pistons.   What were your thoughts leaving that interview?   Did you think they might draft you after going through that? 
TONY MITCHELL:   To be honest, man, I didn't think I would be in this position at all.   Like I said, like he said, everything happens for a reason.   I'm just blessed right now.   That interview was intense.   Really intense. 

Q.   Tony, obviously I think you had expectations to go a little higher than you did.   Talk about those emotions of not going where you thought you were, and now you're into the second round. 
TONY MITCHELL:   Of course you get down a little bit about yourself.   Like I said, everything happens for a reason.   You just got to keep moving forward.   It's a blessing to even be in this position in the first place.   Even though your draft stock slips a little bit, you still have to lace up your shoes and play.   That's what I'm ready to do. 

Q.   Does it tell you something?   Do you learn about yourself as you go through this?   Do you learn about how teams view you? 
TONY MITCHELL:   Most definitely.   Most definitely.   You learn a lot just by being in the process of what teams look for and what they expect of you each and every day as an NBA athlete. 

Q.   I just mean the process of falling in the draft. 
TONY MITCHELL:   Yeah, yeah, yeah.   Of course.   You learn everything about you just during that process for them to select you. 

Q.   Does this put a chip on your shoulder?   Do you not approach it that way? 
TONY MITCHELL:   Of course.   Of course.   Just like a Gilbert Arenas approach, what he went through.   I'm on the same thing he's on right now. 

Q.   You're going to try to get the number zero? 
TONY MITCHELL:   Yeah.   I'm going to stick with 13.   I'm just going to play my hardest pretty much. 

Q.   I don't know if this was covered already, why did you decide to come to the draft when the guys in the second round sometimes stay home? 
TONY MITCHELL:   I just decided to come just because of my family.   My family wanted to be away from the home, just to experience the draft experience, being able to walk on stage and stuff like that. 

Q.   What was your Pistons experience like?   Did you get some vibes from them?   Did they give you an idea going into this? 
TONY MITCHELL:   Not at all.   I didn't think I was going to be selected by the Pistons.   Like I said, everything happens for a reason.   I'm blessed to be in this position. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT