SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 31, 2013
Nadia Petrova
Katarina Srebotnik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







PETROVA‑SREBOTNIK/Raymond‑Robson
  6‑1, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Nadia, I think you have been in the final the last four years, won two, won three overall?   You like this place?
NADIA PETROVA:   I like this place.   I live here.   I'm sticking till the end.   I have nowhere to rush.   I go home between the matches, and I just feel really good here.

Q.   Where do you live around?
NADIA PETROVA:   Well, I'm not going to tell you exactly.

Q.   Just a general. 
NADIA PETROVA:   Yeah, South Florida.   Miami is my hometown.

Q.   How long have you lived here?
NADIA PETROVA:   It's my third year.

Q.   Third year?
NADIA PETROVA:   My third year, yeah.

Q.   What made you move here?
NADIA PETROVA:   The weather, the location.   I run away from winters at home.   Here is overall, you know, all year round ‑‑
KATARINA SREBOTNIK:   Especially the Russian. 
NADIA PETROVA:   Yeah, great place for offseason.   It's easy to commute from Miami and to any destination in the world.   A lot of tennis players choose this place to prepare for the new year, so it's great.   You always have players to practice with.

Q.   What kind of things do you like to do in Miami away from tennis? 
NADIA PETROVA:   The nightlife is crazy here, a lot of nice clubs and nice restaurants.   You can go to the beach.   If you want it quieter, you can go to Fort Lauderdale, the casino, boating, jump on the plane and go to nearest island.   There is so much to do. 

Q.   Talk a little bit about today's match. 
KATARINA SREBOTNIK:   Go, go, go.   I will fill you in. 
NADIA PETROVA:   Well, the first set we were very focused.   We came on court.   We really tried to be dominant.   I think that worked.   We broke them a couple of times.   It was really important for us to start strong. 
And in the second set, you know, it always ‑‑
KATARINA SREBOTNIK:   Deciding points of the game. 
NADIA PETROVA:   Yeah, there were a few deciding points that could have gone either way, a little bit unlucky there, but we were strong in the tiebreaker, which was very important for us not to let it get to the super‑tiebreaker.

Q.   What is it about her as a partner?   Because she's won this with different partners.   What is it about Nadia as a partner?   She's won this tournament three times with three different partners.   She's been in the final five times, I think, or five different partners, right?
NADIA PETROVA:   Yeah.   Couple others. 
KATARINA SREBOTNIK:   No, I mean, this is the facts that you look at the, in Nadia's case or any doubles player, if somebody has won many tournaments with different partners, it gives you quality for that player, you know, that can do well with different partners.
So obviously she has skills in doubles, and this is great.   You know, we match very well, because on the other hand I also won many tournaments, quite a few different players.
So it's always better than some doubles players that only do well with one partner in particular, you know.   So this just opens your confidence, you know.   So it's a big plus when you have to play important matches, when it comes to crucial moments.   You know, you're able to, you know, control and close it out.

Q.   You're one of the players who plays singles and doubles at the top of the game.   How tough is that? 
NADIA PETROVA:   Physically it's very tough.   When the tournament ends, you have so many matches behind me, and I really need couple of days just to rest and to get back into feeling okay.
But doubles also giving me that opportunity sometimes on the tournaments when singles doesn't go my way to still stick around and play till the end, and it's totally different from singles.   Singles you're there by yourself, you have to figure out the strategy.   You have to fight through it pretty much alone. 
In the doubles you have a partner.   You can share how you feel today, what's bothering you, come up with a tactic.   It's much more enjoyable.   It goes quick, and it's a lot of fun actually playing doubles for me.

Q.   What do you think about them?   It's their first time playing together. 
NADIA PETROVA:   They are matching each other very well.   Lisa has great serve‑and‑volley game.   She's good at the net. 
Laura is serving big.   Her advantage is being lefty.   It's very difficult for right‑hander.   And she really has powerful groundstrokes, you know.   You have to really set the point well.   If the ball is a little bit short, that's it.   Lisa all over the net or she goes at the net person.   It's really difficult to play them.

Q.   How much time would you say you spend in Miami?
NADIA PETROVA:   Oh, that's at least five months out of the year. 

Q.   You don't live here? 
KATARINA SREBOTNIK:   No, I don't.   But I still like Miami.   (Smiling.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT