AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2010
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. HENIN/N. Petrova
  7-6, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Where do you feel you came up short today? 
 NADIA PETROVA: I think, well, it is my serve today. I've had quite a sore shoulder throughout all the Australian Open. Today has been really the worst day for me. 
 I started with some pain and couldn't really get my serve going. I was double-faulting a lot. I have a feeling, you know, I was just a little bit playing with my toss to avoid the pain. 
 Other than that, little bit more unforced errors obviously today. But Justine really was trying to put pressure on me. 

 Q. You played Justine 15 times. 
 NADIA PETROVA: Really? I didn't know that. 

 Q. How far is she off her best, or do you think she's at her best?
 NADIA PETROVA: She's definitely playing very good. She's playing more aggressively. She's playing closer to the line, really going after the second serves. I think she also did improve her first serve, as well. 

 Q. What do you take out of the match for the rest of the year? 
 NADIA PETROVA: Well, there are a few things to be tuned. Other than that, you know, it's just the beginning of the year. Still so many tournaments ahead. It's all exciting. 
 I mean, I think it's been a pretty decent start for the year. 

 Q. You seem to be more impressed by Henin than by Clijsters. How do you explain that?
 NADIA PETROVA: Well, Justine is a little bit different compared to Kim. The variety of game she has, that one-handed backhand, the slice, you know, with her you really have to mix it up much more than against Kim. 
 That's what I really felt. Because, you know, she really puts you off guard with that slice. It's a great defensive shot for her. Suddenly she comes up with winners out of her backhands, as well, so you never know what's coming. 

 Q. You always play tight playing each other. You've lost 13 of the 15 matches. 
 NADIA PETROVA: It's always tight situations. Today I felt there a few times she was a little bit lucky with the challenge, just with the ball hit the let of the net and falls over. Sometimes frames the ball and it goes in. 
 Other than that, you know, I mean, I was fighting. I was fighting hard. But I wish I'd be a little bit more consistent today. 

 Q. You sound very disappointed now, but how would you assess the start of your season?
 NADIA PETROVA: Hmm. You know, it's always a good feeling to get to the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam, obviously. You know, I was really aiming to get a little bit further this time. 
 But other than that, I'm excited to get back on a tennis court and work on some strokes, maybe some tactics. 
 I'm happy the way I'm physically right now, so really want to improve that and keep on working so it can get me to the next level. 

 Q. Do you think she can win this?
 NADIA PETROVA: She has a good shot. I mean, she has a really good round in the semifinals. Whoever she's gonna face in the final, I'm sure, you know, she has a good shot at it. 

 Q. You mentioned the second serve. Do you see any other new dimensions to her game? Is this just kind of Justine of old or new bells and whistles? 
 NADIA PETROVA: Once again, I'm saying she's playing faster tennis, closer to the lines. She tries to take time from you. She really tries to rip the ball. She doesn't stick into long rallies like as she used to, to really run everybody. She really tries to go for the winners. 
 You know, I see her coming to the net those days more than she used to do. 

 Q. Do you feel this is really a big lost opportunity?
 NADIA PETROVA: Why do we have to look at that side of life? It's all right. Next time. 

 Q. You played Justine in Cairo last year, Brisbane, then now. Do you see any progress in her game?
 NADIA PETROVA: That just been a month ago. What kind of progress can you make when you playing tournaments? You can obviously get into the tournament mode, but it's simply impossible to get better while a tournament goes, 'cause she already had her five months of preparation before coming back. I'm sure she worked on everything during this time. 

 Q. These breaks that players have been taking have seemed to serve them well. You're in good physical shape, but do you ever think just maybe mentally as much as anything you might do well?
 NADIA PETROVA: It is obviously mental. You know, when you take a break from tennis and you just live the life, you just do the outside things, you know, that you've always dreamed to do when you're traveling on the tour and you're not able to do, you kind of get like well-rested from this, all this pressure, all this traveling. 
 When you come back, it's like, you know, everything is new. It's like, you know, climbing up the ranking ladder. I think this is the most easiest thing instead of just maintaining it or something, you know. 
 A lot of players are not capable of taking this decision and taking some time off because they say, I'm on the top; how can I do this? When I come back, I have to do it again. 
 But whoever does it, I mean, it always does good things to them. 

 Q. At the time you're playing great, but... 
 NADIA PETROVA: I'm playing great. I've been injured plenty of times, so I had my rest already (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT