AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2010
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. PETROVA/K. Clijsters
  6-0, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Did you expect such an easy win?  
 NADIA PETROVA: Of course not. I was preparing myself already a long day, a long match. Might have been a three-setter. Just really wanted to give everything I could today. Very happy.   
  
  Q. What was it like on court? When did you sense that she was vulnerable, beatable?   
 NADIA PETROVA: You know what, I really tried to focus win every single point. I really tried to run, win every single point. I start collect my game.   
 When I broke her again in the second set, then I realized, you know, this is like a two-set match for me, and I just start cruising through it.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like your game was at a high level or did you feel it was the way Kim was playing?  
 NADIA PETROVA: Well, I played very well. I didn't give her chance for her to start playing her game. I really put pressure from the first point, you know. I stayed close to the line. I was really observing her pace. Also, you know, coming up with the big shots. You know, I made very difficult for her. She had to come up with something unbelievable.   
 I bet, you know, it was tough out there.   
  
  Q. Obviously you're very happy with the way the tournament is going now.   
 NADIA PETROVA: Yes, very happy. You know, have a day off tomorrow. Unfortunately, out of doubles. But it's going to be another practice day. I'm not overexcited. I'm not super happy because I know the tournament is not over yet. There's more matches to come.   
 I should stay focused and get ready for the next one.   
  
  Q. Do you feel you can cause some upsets? Is there that belief that you can go a bit further than what a lot of people think?  
 NADIA PETROVA: Yeah, if I'm able to perform like today and keep the composure as I did today, yes, of course, I can come up with more upsets in this event.   
  
  Q. In terms of keeping composure, sometimes in the past you've had a chance for a big win and had trouble closing it out. Did you feel nervous the last game when you had a couple match points?  
 NADIA PETROVA: It's obviously tough. Yes, I felt like the victory is nearby. You know, the last point is always the hard one because the other person doesn't give a - I don't want to say that word. That was actually about this for me the whole match, the last point.   
  
  Q. Did you change anything in your preparation?  
 NADIA PETROVA: No, I didn't change anything in my preparation. I know I had a good six weeks of practice. I'm fitter than ever. You have to chase every single ball. There are no easy points.   
  
  Q. You didn't have great results coming into this tournament, Sydney and Brisbane.   
 NADIA PETROVA: The beginning of the year hasn't been exactly as I wished it could be. You know, draw Justine in Brisbane, was a close match. I really enjoyed it. And then I went to Sydney hoping I could get a couple single matches. I lost a disappointing loss to Date Krumm. I stayed there, tried to play some more doubles so I could get some match play.   
 On the other hand, I know I'm doing well at the Grand Slams. I really like coming here. I like the atmosphere. I like this kind of Grand Slam feelings. At the other hand, I was quite happy because I knew I had my preparation. I knew I'm fit, and I was fresh for the tournament.   
  
  Q. From your point of view, were you thinking when a player loses 6-0, 6-1...   
 NADIA PETROVA: I'm sure, you know, she was trying to change few things. You know, she had couple of breakpoints in the second set on my serve. If I would have lost those games, she would have had a feeling like she's back in the game. But obviously I didn't let that happen.   
 So I would say, of course, it is frustrating that you're not able to do things the way you really want them to do. All I can say, you know, I just didn't give her a chance to get into the match.   
  
  Q. In the first set up two breaks, were you thinking that you were playing really well?  
 NADIA PETROVA: I wasn't actually thinking anything. That was a good thing (laughter).   
 As soon as the point was over, my priority was the next point. I really wanted to win it badly. You know, that way I start collecting point by point, game by game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT