ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
July 29, 2008
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  N. PETROVA/M. Pelletier  
6-0, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Nadia.   
  
  Q. I understand a lot of wind on the court, but didn't seem to bother you.   
 NADIA PETROVA: I really enjoyed my first round match. I had a big crowd out there. I had a good experience of being out there. I think I couldn't ask for a better start.   
  
  Q. Was it as easy as you made it look?   
 NADIA PETROVA: That's a good question. You know, the first matches, they can be always tricky. Just matter how you mentally approach them. This time, you know, I was very concentrated, they focused on the things I really had to do from the beginning till the end. I didn't let any thoughts get in my head. I executed everything correctly.   
 There was one game that I had couple of unforced errors because, you know, I wanted to do maybe impossible, you know, like get two O's. I got a little bit excited about it. I lost one of the returning games. Besides, that I closed the match very strongly. So I'm very happy and very pleased.   
  
  Q. Is keeping your concentration when you're doing that well and winning that easily one of the great challenges that you're able to do because you're a veteran?   
 NADIA PETROVA: Yes, definitely. Well, it comes with experience. Even if it might look very easy, there's still -- it's still really hard to maintain that focus because there's so many other thoughts just might get in your head or you might get distracted, might get irritated with one shot, and it's gone. The other player can feel it. You never should let anything happen to you. It's like you have to be overprotective, you know, on the court.   
  
  Q. Did you anticipate the easy win?  
 NADIA PETROVA: Not at all. I've never played her, even in the junior tour. So I didn't know what to expect. I hardly seen her play. I think when she plays at home, the crowd would be behind her, it would be difficult for me to compete against it.   
 But actually when I start understand the match, I was two breaks down. I managed to get out of it. Then I just cruised through the match.  
  
  Q. Are you surprised at the result?  
 NADIA PETROVA: Well, if I'm surprised? I'm not surprised but I must say I didn't expect it to be that easy.   
  
  Q. Are you on the Russian Olympic team?  
 NADIA PETROVA: No, I'm not.  
  
  Q. Is it a big frustration?  
 NADIA PETROVA: I don't think so because it's quite a difficult schedule. I'm playing a lot in the States, then coming here, then from here I have to go to China, come back. It's quite difficult. I don't know. I'm not very excited of just the idea of going to China, you know, be very busy. It's already overcrowded place. Then all the tourists and visitors would come. I don't know how it's all going to be. I'm quite happy I can play the tournaments, focus on my matches.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT