WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2008
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  N. PETROVA/A. Kudryavtseva
6-1, 6-4

 Q. Where is all this great tennis coming from?
 NADIA PETROVA: Well, you know, I'm very excited to be through the second week of the Wimbledon. I mean, I've realized that I really have a good draw to be in the quarters, and all I need to do is just stay there, have my head focused, and play the right tactics, play a smart game. 
 That's what I've been doing until the middle of the second set, then I really started to think a little bit too much ahead. Because of that a little bit tightened up and wasn't as aggressive as I was in the beginning of the match. 
 But then by the end of the second set I got myself together, and I knew I had to close it.

 Q. So the last couple weeks have been very good for you. Do you feel like the confidence has come back?
 NADIA PETROVA: Yeah, I've been enjoying playing on grass. Last week was a little bit difficult. I had to struggle through some pains. You know, had to call trainers in order to be able to finish the matches. 
 But yesterday did so good to me, rested, and I've got enough treatment. I felt so much better today.

 Q. So it's the right leg still, or is it your hip?
 NADIA PETROVA: It was the left hip area. We really couldn't understand why. We had done all the exams and it doesn't show anything, but the pain was quite tough. 

 Q. Well, this is your first quarterfinal since Australia 2006. 
 NADIA PETROVA: Yeah, that's right.

 Q. So can you afford to think, Maybe this could be my tournament? Maybe things are coming together at the right time?
 NADIA PETROVA: Sure. Things are working well, and I'm very excited to play the next match. I don't want to look too much ahead. I just want to do the right things, see if my head is there. If I'm playing the tennis I need to play, I can beat pretty much anyone.

 Q. And this grass should be, if you're playing well, a pretty good surface for you, because it will allow you to use a lot of parts of your game. 
 NADIA PETROVA: Exactly. It suits me very well with my serve, with my ability to go to the net. It really is a good surface for me.

 Q. So when is the last time you've felt this good about your game?
 NADIA PETROVA: There was a stage last year. I think the US Open Series. Before I got injured, that's what I felt also confident about my game.

 Q. So about a year, one year? 
 NADIA PETROVA: Something like this, yes.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT