WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2008
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  N. PETROVA/V. Azarenka
7-6, 7-6

 Q. That's a good win over a very good young player at a Grand Slam, huh?
 NADIA PETROVA: It certainly is, and it was a tough match, especially on grass. She's a very powerful player, and she really strokes the ball very hard. The ball comes very fast indeed when she serves well. 
 It was very important today, really serving well, which I thought I did, and then looking for break. 
 Pretty much same thing in the tiebreaker; try to get a break and hold on to your own serves and try not to give any free points, but it's really hard to have long volleys here on grass. It's really hard to control the ball. 
 I find the courts this year are more drier and the baseline is really worn out, and it's really difficult to get a good bounce on the baseline, so you've really got to keep it short.

 Q. Did the experience matter in both tiebreakers do you think, your experience? 
 NADIA PETROVA: I think, yes, of course, and the thing is I have pretty good record in tiebreakers. 
 I really wanted to win this match, so I really gave everything I could into it.

 Q. Just talk about your feelings going into the second week then. The last couple months have been a lot better. 
 NADIA PETROVA: Fantastic. I'm very happy winning those matches and very happy enjoying playing again and fighting and trying to find a solution in difficult moment and trying to stay calm. 
 It feels like after an injury I have to go through all those emotions and situations once again. It's like another learning process, but I guess that's what it takes. 
 If something doesn't really work, I take it as, you know, it's something I cannot avoid. Something is happening for the reason.

 Q. Well, you've been through that before, too; it's not like you haven't had injuries --
 NADIA PETROVA: I know, but after a break when you come back, you might be playing unbelievable in practice, hitting the ball and really getting the feel of it. But when you go into a match, a match situation, you need to adjust in the match to a different game plan and pressure, emotions, when somebody talking, telephone calling. So you just name it, everything.

 Q. So what do you know about Kudryavtseva?
 NADIA PETROVA: Well, she had a very good win against Maria, and actually today, too, she really proved she's a tough player to beat on grass. She really enjoys it. I think that's the best she's ever done in a Grand Slam, and you know, I'm sure when she comes out playing me, she'll be free and she will be just -- I can just expect anything coming out from her. You know, she will be playing free.

 Q. Just like she did against Maria?
 NADIA PETROVA: Exactly, yes.

 Q. How well do you know her?
 NADIA PETROVA: I don't really know her well. I did practice with her a few times at the Fed Cup, but I've never played her and haven't seen her much besides last year against Venus and last two matches that she played. That's pretty much all I know about her.

 Q. What is it that has made the Russian women so dominant?
 NADIA PETROVA: It's many of us, first of all.

 Q. Russian women, I said. 
 NADIA PETROVA: I think the backgrounds that we're coming from. We really have to work hard for better living, and that's an extra motivation for us.

 Q. Just quickly, how did you end up wearing Venus' clothes?
 NADIA PETROVA: Well, my contract with Airness unfortunately stopped earlier because for them it was very difficult for them to catch up with all these new lines and getting clothes in time for me because it was something new for them, and they had to prepare everything specially for me. They were just not on time, and they said, you know, it's just too tough for us and we're not prepared for that, so we would like to get out of the contract earlier. 
 You know, I just didn't want to wear any other brands. Why would I make such a favor to anyone else? And then I thought the V and coming up with a new brand and many players tried and many players succeed, and I thought, you know -- I offered to her, while I don't have anything, I'd be more than happy to play in your clothes if you'd like me, and she was very excited to have me on the team.

 Q. And you like the clothes?
 NADIA PETROVA: I really like the clothes. I think it's great. I mean, it's different. That's what I want; I want to wear something different.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT