ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 14, 2007
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  So what can we say, Nadia, for this tournament last week of this final? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Well, definitely I'm quite happy that things are turning for the better side for me.  I was quite -- it was a bit of a luck, of course, Maria didn't play, so I was through into the finals.  But I was actually looking forward to that match.  Fortunately it was going to be an exciting match.  But yeah, I'm quite happy with the results. 
 And I played as I was saying earlier in my press conferences that those tournaments I play then as a preparation step for the US Open.  So I feel quite good.  I had quite a few matches.  So things, you know, are looking positive. 

 Q.  Do you feel as fresh as you were maybe during the first half of this season? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Yeah.  I'm not fatigued at all.  Mentally, I'm in a good stage, I'm quite happy with myself and it's been quite nice.  Spent time with very nice people in San Diego.  I took my break over there.  And I had a lot of friends and support team coming watching me in Los Angeles.  I've been doing a lot of things also besides tennis. 

 Q.  And you haven't been too lucky in the previous Grand Slam tournaments so far. 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Pardon? 

 Q.  You haven't been too lucky in the previous Grand Slam tournaments, you know. 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Yeah, that's the only, that's the only thing. 

 Q.  What are you expecting here for the last one of the year? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Well, you know, as you said, I haven't been very lucky, so I think this is going to be my tournament.  I hope I'm going to do really well.  I think there's nothing can ruin that opportunity to do it well because everything so far is good. 

 Q.  Besides that, there is maybe another goal for you this year for the Fed Cup? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Yes.  That is something I'm very excited.  It's been lots of fun playing for the team, and I've never been a part of the team, you know, winning the Fed Cup.  Now I have a great chance playing at home. 
 We have very strong team, and I must say it's a young team too, Svetlana, Anna Chakvetadze and Vesnina, and I feel like I'm the older one.  But really have a great relationship together and we have lots of fun. 
 So I think, you know, our team has never been stronger.  Like it's really united.  I'm really enjoying it, so I'm really looking forward to that final. 

 Q.  And you're going to have to play two weeks in a row, the US Open and then right after that the Fed Cup finals.  So it won't be easy, probably. 
 NADIA PETROVA:  You know what, so far, I mean I'm the third on the team if you're looking up at the rankings.  Because Svetlana and Anna are ahead of me.  And Svetlana had a long break after Wimbledon, and that's her first tournament coming in after US Open.  And Chakvetadze is in great form.  She seems to be very fit right now.  She had a great run in previous tournaments. 
 And I must say, being at this stage of the year, I'm feeling quite good myself.  So hopefully we will stay healthy through the US Open, that is the most important and then we'll definitely going to have fun at the Fed Cup. 

 Q.  What about this week? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Well, this week - 

 Q.  Great expectations? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  You know, I'll look at my draw.  First thing I've said this is quite a tough draw, so it's going to be a good challenge for me to get some tough matches before the US Open.  And whatever happens, happens. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT