MERCURY INSURANCE OPEN
July 20, 2012
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. PETROVA/V. Lepchenko
  6‑4, 2‑6, 7‑6 
   
 Q. Nadia, difficult conditions today.   Obviously had a long match.   How do you feel like you played today?   
NADIA PETROVA:   Yeah, today wasn't an easy day.   In the beginning was fast, and then the sun started to go down.   From one side of the court it was really impossible to see the ball at time so felt like a little bit lost out there.  
I fought hard.   I don't think I played my best tennis today.   I think I grinded out well.   Let's hope tomorrow, another day, I'm going to wake up with the right foot and I'll play better tennis.  
   
 Q.   Your serve seemed to get you out of a few tough spots in the third set.   Are you happy with the serving performance.   
NADIA PETROVA:   Well, I'm definitely happy.   This is a good weapon to have, you know, that under pressure you can still come up with a good serve and get yourself out of a hole.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the tiebreak.   
NADIA PETROVA:   I don't actually remember what was going on back and forth.   I thought I would have a bigger advantage from the side that I was in the beginning.   I thought Varvara would struggle with the sun, but she still came up with good shots.   
I don't I guess I was just lucky in the end.   My last point I totally didn't see the ball.   I just pushed it there and then Varvara made a mistake.  
   
 Q.   Varvara has had a big year so far.   Talk about her game.   What is she doing really well?  
NADIA PETROVA:   Yeah, she did improve a lot.   I think USTA help her a lot technically, because she used to have this really weird, big, huge swing on the forehand.   Now she's more compact and using her inside out forehand more.   Being a lefty is also an advantage because there are not so many of them.  
I guess that's why she has been winning matches, and that also gives her confidence.  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on your semifinal opponent, Dominika Cibulkova.   You guys have played before.   What do you think you'll have to do really well to counteract her game tomorrow?  
NADIA PETROVA:   She's a tough opponent.   She likes to be aggressive, play quick, make winners.   I have to serve well, return well, and then just be quick in my legs in order beat her tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT