FEDCUP SEMIFINALS: RUSSIA v USA
July 13, 2007
Anna Chakvetadze
Nadia Petrova
Shamil Tarpischev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Thank you all for coming out.  We'll just open it up to media questions. 

 Q.  Captain Tarpischev, can you tell us how you're feeling now, having been through the immigration ordeal you were, and do you think it will have any impact on your team? 
 CAPTAIN TARPISCHEV:  (Through translation.)  As far as my visa is concerned, first of all, I would like to say I'm very thankful to all those who supported me.  First of all, it is the International Tennis Federation, the Olympic Committee of the United States, International Olympic Committee, U.S. Tennis Federation, and my special thanks goes to the U.S. Embassy in Moscow. 
 When I got the visa at quarter to 4 a.m. yesterday, after talking many times to the Ambassador of the U.S., and the very fact that the U.S. Embassy employee was especially left behind to work on my visa, staying till quarter to 4 to make my visa arrangements, it's indicative of the attention I was given by the U.S. officials.  The fact that eventually the U.S. State Department okayed the visa is very important and I'm thankful for that.  We both understand the laws of each other. 
 Only one thing, of course, because I'm not coming here for pleasure.  It's a job I'm coming here for.  From this point of view, my composure was a little imbalanced. 
 As for the why of all this imbroglio, I don't know exactly.  Maybe this is the result of the situation of '96/'97 when all kinds of helter-skelter was going on in Russia.  Maybe some of my opponents or my enemies did their best to work hard and so, you see, it wasn't very helpful.  But this does not change our relationship.  We still respect each other and I consider this case over. 

 Q.  Nadia, without Maria and Svetlana here, do you see yourself as the team leader this weekend?  You have the most experience playing Fed Cup. 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Well, I do and I can't say I do feel like a leader because Anna is still the No. 1 on the team, but I had more matches under my belt, feeling myself a little bit more experienced. 
 But, you know, I try to feel with the rest of the team and just really support each other. 

 Q.  Anna, can you talk about leading off the semifinal against an opponent you've never played before. 
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  No, I never played against her, but I practiced with her.  We both been coached by Robert Lansdorp.  We both was in L.A.  I think I did practice with her two or three times.  She's very good junior, improving her game a lot. 
 I look forward to this match.  It will be interesting. 

 Q.  Nadia, your approach to opening the tie with Venus. 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Well, it's going to be a great match, I'm sure, especially after she won Wimbledon.  She's playing one of her best tennis at the moment.  It's been quite a long time since we play each other. 
 I'm looking forward to it.  I'm really looking forward to try at which stage I am now.  I think it's going to do very good for me for the upcoming tournaments. 

 Q.  Nadia, you always answer the call for Fed Cup for Russia.  Why is it so important for you to represent your country? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Well, to be honest, not always.  I did have quite a few injuries before that and I couldn't be a part of the team. 
 Whenever I'm feeling good and whenever there is a need for me to come, I'm always there to support because it's one of my dreams, as well, to win the Fed Cup.  Unfortunately before, when our team won it, I wasn't a member of the team.  Hopefully this time it's going to happen. 
 We're going to try our best. 

 Q.  Anna, obviously there's been some injuries on your team.  What does the team feel like?  Is it a situation where you feel you have to pick things up after all the injuries? 
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  I think we all feel pretty confident and pretty good.  We have no injuries.  Nadia feels well.  Her back doesn't bother her.  I feel pretty good, as well. 
 You know, we're just ready to play. 

 Q.  Can you describe your time so far here in Stowe, Vermont, how it's been for you. 
 ANNA CHAKVETADZE:  It's a really quiet city.  We just focus on tennis.  We went yesterday to very nice food restaurant.  We spend great time there.  We didn't go out and do that much. 
 NADIA PETROVA:  But at the other hand, we just had couple of days here and we're really trying to catch as much sleep as possible because we had a very tiring trip, give as much time for our body to recover. 
 Of course, we spend a lot of time on the court.  So besides that, you know, we haven't done anything else.  On the other hand, you know, the quietness of this place give us a chance to stick together and really have fun together. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT