INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (WOMEN)
May 17, 2007
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  It's not easy now for you to sit.  You have a problem. 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Well, it's good that you make a joke of it, but for me it's not funny at all because I was really looking forward finally to start playing better and find my confidence lately. 
 But, you know, unfortunately I have to wait until the French Open. 

 Q.  Did you have problem on previous days with your back, or not? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  I've had some accident in the fitness in the gym, and I fall on that side.  So I think it has something to do with that.  Because probably jammed the joint in my low back. 
 It was actually doing better with each day, and yesterday I experienced some muscle tightness around it, and today warm up was perfect.  But then in the match, at one stage I felt like I really have to stretch to the forehand and then I felt some sharpness and burning sensations. 
 From that point it just was getting worse and worse. 

 Q.  (From Italian) That is nothing to do with the muscle? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  We don't know.  We don't know what it is because now it's 30 minutes on court and it's really difficult to say about it what's the problem. 
 So now I probably will change and see the doctor and they'll try to figure out what it is.  Because it might be something with a ligament or a muscle or a joint itself, so we need it find out. 

 Q.  It's a terrible period for many, many players. 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Actually, that's true.  Yeah, few players -- 

 Q.  What it means? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  I don't know.  Look with me, it's nothing happen with me on court.  Something else happen with me off court.  Anything can happen. 
 And because it is such a personal sport, you know, if you're not feeling 100% there's no teammates or partners who can take your kind of job over.  You know, it's all about you. 
 Every day you have to be 100% and it's very difficult. 

 Q.  (From Italian) Do you think that there are too many matches to play in the schedule? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  No.  Well, you know, every player makes their own schedule, but we do have quite a lot of commitments that we have to commit for each year.  It's very hard for us to, yeah, to be healthy every single tournament. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT