SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 9, 2006
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Just talk about what you thought the keys were to the match tonight. 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Well, I'm going to start that I wasn't feeling 100 percent. 
 I think I had a very late night yesterday.  I think I went to bed around 3:00.  So I felt like my concentration and my reaction wasn't 100 percent, and I was quite late reacting to the fast balls on the barrier and fast balls away from me.  And all I really could hope on today, my serve.  And it felt like if Justine, she had some tight moments, and unfortunately I couldn't turn, couldn't turn around the match today. 

 Q.  Despite your own tiredness, how would you assess her level right now? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  My level? 

 Q.  Justine's level. 
 NADIA PETROVA:  I'm sure she's picking it up her game with each single match.  I find she played much better against me and she was more confident.  She was really trying to create an opportunity to finish off the points.  She was very impressive. 
 She was playing against the ball.  And I feel like with each single match she would do better and better. 

 Q.  I guess you're in sort of wait-and-see mode, I don't think you've been eliminated yet? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Yes, that's true.  I think I'm quite happy to have an early night and a good night sleep and have one day of rest. 
 I don't think I'm feeling like to go and play some tennis, but well you never know.  I might have some luck at the end. 

 Q.  Good evening.  You played some big shots today.  There's people who are saying the female circuit kind of guards the essence of the game compared to the male, which there is some big hitters, people serving really fast, what do you think about that? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Well, first of all, the women tennis is changing, getting more powerful, and you see in some matches the points are getting a bit shorter because of the powerful gun strokes and big serves; and, yeah, I think especially the top ten players, they are so different from the rest of the players and they're physically stronger.  They're physically faster.  And they try to play very aggressive and they try to play fast tennis. 

 Q.  Two weeks ago we had the Madrid Masters here.  Semi-final not a single match went over an hour.  Here you guys are playing an average of an hour and a half.  How do you explain that difference? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Yeah, because the level of game is so close.  And I think every player has a good chance beating each other and that's why I mean having players play the similar tennis and being in the same level.  That's why the matches are going so much longer.  It's very competitive. 

 Q.  Nadia, you look tired or disappointed? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Both, actually.  I do feel really tired.  And in the way of course I'm disappointed because not only the way I played but also there's some things going in my team which are a little bit frustrating, because at once I really felt like I have the right people around me but now they are not really fitting well together and they are having some arguments. 
 And it looks like I'll have to look maybe for some other person, looking for the replacement in my team. 

 Q.  How disappointed you are because of the fact of playing yesterday the latest match and today the first one? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  Well, I think first of all, all players are not very happy because of the scheduling.  Matches are starting very late and they're having a match starting at 10:00, it's really difficult when you have to come out the next day. 
 And it would have been nicer if we could have had matches starting earlier so we could finish a bit early so we have plenty of time to recover.  Because finishing playing at 12:00 by the time I got to the hotel it was almost 2:00.  And after the match like yesterday, we have to do some recovery stuff, you have to take care of your body, takes another hour.  By the time you go to bed it's already like early morning. 
 To be 100 percent and be able to play good tennis is really hard.  I think this should not only do that for us but also for the quality of tennis for the spectators.  Because I feel like, you know, I didn't do enough today on the court because I'm not 100 percent and I'm sure people were not very excited of the match either. 

 Q.  Nadia, if it is your last singles match, can you put some perspective on your season? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  I'm very happy to close the chapter.  And I don't want to look at it back because it was a very rough year for me.  It was lots of good things as well.  Lots of titles but besides that I've changed three, four coaches and went through difficult time during the summer and things are not very well at the moment so I really want to put everything in the right spot and hopefully start the old season in the right way and step into 2007 in a positive way. 

 Q.  Is one of the goals then to find a permanent coach for 2007? 
 NADIA PETROVA:  I think I would stick with a different partner and I'll travel with the (inaudible) most of the time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT