SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 7, 2006
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  What went well for you tonight?    
 NADIA PETROVA:  What?    
  
  Q.  What went well for you tonight?   
 NADIA PETROVA:  What went well for me, I think the way I felt on the court, I was very happy that me and Amelie were supposed to play the first match.  And it's quite easy in a relaxed atmosphere.  We kicked off in relaxed conditions and I think what also really helped me out today is that Amelie is coming out of an injury in time and looked like she wasn't 100 percent on the court.  Struggling.  Probably the shoulder gave her pain in the match.  But I'm going to say I played smart tennis.  I served well and I was patient and absolutely calm, and I felt like I was in control of the match.   
  
  Q.  Have you ever lost set point on a challenge before?   
 NADIA PETROVA:  I did actually in the beginning.  I wasn't very good with it every single time.  I was getting it wrong.  But so far, you know, I got used to it and whenever I use it, it seemed to be right.  It seemed to be in my favor.   
  
  Q.  You lost that set point; she challenged the call.    
 NADIA PETROVA:  You know, I was actually quite surprised that she challenged it, because I felt like, you know, I wasn't really sure about that mark.  But I felt like they started to play music and the set was over.  I was very excited.  And suddenly the ball was in, so I got up and I was quite happy that it didn't bother me much.  Finish the set, very confident.   
  
  Q.  What was maybe the atmosphere in the stadium, the seats were, a lot of them were empty?   
 NADIA PETROVA:  The court was very good and the atmosphere is great as well.  The surroundings are very enjoyable you feel very comfortable out there.   
  
  Q.  Congratulations for the match.  Do you think this championship could be your sixth title?   
 NADIA PETROVA:  I don't really get your question.  Repeat it.  Well, it would be very great to finish off the year like that and I'm sure I will kick off a very long party for one day or more days.  But it will be actually very great.  It's something I've never achieved in my life and definitely something that I'm having my eye on as something I want to achieve.  It's one of my goals, and if it can happen this time I will be very, very happy about it.   
MODERATOR:  Any other questions in English?    
  
  Q.  Last year Mauresmo won a championship and then a few Grand Slams.  Do you think if you win the championship you could achieve that situation?    
 NADIA PETROVA:  I think that's the way I would feel as well, because we take championships as similar tournaments to Grand Slams.  At the same time it's the best player.  So definitely by winning here I would feel like now I can really aim for the Grand Slam and I would be much more confident and definitely after the win here the next goal for me would be winning the Grand Slam.   
  
  Q.  A couple of players yesterday mentioned you and Sharapova as sort of the momentum players coming into the tournament.  Do you feel that way, that the two of you are the most fit after the fall season?   
 NADIA PETROVA:  It's hard to say, but we all had a very good end of the season, and we've been very consistent.  We had quite a few matches, so for sure we have the confidence in the same surface.  And we know the way the game should be played, and you know I think it's just a matter of patience and, of course, you need to have some luck as well, and most important to have the self belief and desire to win every single match and make everything happen.   
  
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT