AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2006
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Do you like the fact that no one takes any notice of you?

NADIA PETROVA:  Yeah, that's true (smiling).  Big room. 

Q.  You like being able to just go through the draw without a lot of hassle? 

NADIA PETROVA:  Well, I must say I played every match -- I can't say I played a very dangerous opponent yet - till now.  But I've showed doesn't matter who's on the other side, and I still showed my tennis and been winning quite easily in two sets.  Haven't spent so much time on the court.  So I'm quite happy the way every game went, and I'm just looking forward to make another step forward and play already a top 10 player. 

Q.  Sounds like the perfect preparation for the second week. 

NADIA PETROVA:  It is definitely perfect preparation, especially it's the first Grand Slam.  It's the third tournament of the year.  I didn't had to face a very tough opponent till now.  So I had a chance to get my rhythm into it and got a chance to feel my game, adjust few things in my game.  I feel quite confident in the moment.

Q.  You had two injury withdrawals leading into the tournament. 

NADIA PETROVA:  Right.

Q.  How is the body holding up now?

NADIA PETROVA:  It's holding very well.  I must say two, three days before the tournament I was a bit worried and I pulled myself out of doubles, only just focused on the singles because I really didn't know how my body would respond to match situations.  But it been very well, and I'm saying again, haven't spent so much time on the court.  I didn't have very tough matches yet, so it helped my body to recover.  And I'm really looking after it after every single match.  In time between when I don't have to play, like a day of rest, every day, I don't spend so much time on the court.  Do also recovery.  I feel good.  I feel fit. 

Q.  Given you said you haven't really been tested so far, do you get to this point of a tournament and you're hungry to get your teeth into a big match?

NADIA PETROVA:  Yeah, I'm really looking forward.  I'm happy to be in quarterfinal.  It's one round better than last year.  I really like to test myself, where I am at the moment.  What I'm still has to improve for the season.

Q.  Where do you think the biggest improvements come in your game?  Last year was a great year for you.  But go back a year before.  Is this an expectation to get into the second week of these Slam tournaments?

NADIA PETROVA:  I think for me last year been just great.  I played so many matches.  It gave me so much confidence.  I became so consistent.  So that helps me.  Now I also realize when it's important points, important moments, so I really can focus more what I have to do.  I'm becoming little bit quieter on court as well.

Q.  Do you think you have the mental toughness now to match up with a player like Sharapova.  She's renowned for her mental toughness. 

NADIA PETROVA:  Well, I think for myself I'm gaining that.  I'm gaining that mental toughness.  I can feel it.  I mean, I can feel also the way I play, the way just I come on court, I feel I'm better than this girl, and it shows.  It pays off.

Q.  How are things working out with the new coach?

NADIA PETROVA:  It could have been better.  He's a good person and tennis-wise he's not bad.  But our characters doesn't fit together.  He's a bit too soft for me.  I'll be looking for someone else after this tournament. 

Q.  Does he push you hard enough? 

NADIA PETROVA:  Not about this.  He could have been little bit harder on me.  But I like people if, for example, I'm not behaving well or I'm not happy about something on court, I start to be kind of (nutty?) that he can pull me back and say, "Listen, you have to be this and this."  You know, I like that the coach has everything in his hands, all the practice process and that he is in charge.  Not me in charge of the coach.  So that's the way it works out now, that I'm having everything in my hands.  I tell him what I need to do.  But, I mean, I'm doing well, but still it's too much, it's too much for me.  It's too many things I have to think of. 

Q.  Do you think maybe he's afraid of you because you're actually the boss? 

NADIA PETROVA:  In kind of way, yes.  That's how he feels. 

Q.  How have you acclimatized to Australia?

NADIA PETROVA:  Actually, I done very well this year.  I started, instead of Gold Coast where extremely hot, I started in New Zealand so it's not as big a change in temperature.  Coming here I had a few days hot in Sydney.  But I must say I am doing quite well.  I'm coping with this well. 

Q.  Did you do much work in Russia before here?

NADIA PETROVA:  Well, I did lots of fitness preparations.  But, I mean, Russia, when I left, it was minus 10.  At the moment, it's, for example, yesterday it was even minus 35.  So it's a big change of the temperature.  But, I mean, I like the heat.  I do better in heat than in cold conditions. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT