SONY ERICSSON OPEN
April 1, 2012
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. KIRILENKO‑N. PETROVA/S. Errani‑R. Vinci
  7‑6, 4‑6, 10‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   First of all, I have to ask what the bunny ears are for.   
NADIA PETROVA:   That was actually a dare from Maria.   She purchased them like a week ago, and she said, Right, if we're gonna win this tournament, this title, we have to put them on right away on the court.  
So, you know, we were already so excited last night.   We stayed in separate hotels, and then putting ears on, taking pictures of ourselves and sending to each other, all excited for today.  
You know, I think we had ‑‑we were really motivated to win this tournament, because we have been playing well together but really didn't have a title really for a while.   We knew if we played our game today against Vinci/Errani, we end up winning it no matter what.  
And we were very solid in the super‑tiebreaker, you know, and then of course obviously excited to wear those ears.  
   
 Q.   How do you think you played today?  
NADIA PETROVA:   Personally I don't think I played my best.   I think at the end, um, in a super‑tiebreaker I did very well.   
You know, it's good that in important moment I was able to stay calm and collected and be able to play good tennis.   Maria played very well throughout the whole match today.  
   
 Q.   What does this title mean to you personally?   You have been to the finals here three years in a row.   
NADIA PETROVA:   Yeah, it's been my third final, and last two were quite painful, because I believe last year we were even serving for the match, were not able to win, and, you know, it's been a very long two weeks.   
Now I'm heading to Charleston tomorrow.   I'm going there with a good feeling, with excitement, you know, with a good motivation to do well there.  
   
 Q.   What makes you and Maria such a formidable team?   You both have a lot of experience in singles and doubles.   Is that something that you can really use to your advantage?  
NADIA PETROVA:   You know, we both focus on singles, but we are single players.   Unfortunately we don't have too much time to practice, but when we do, last couple of days, you know, the result really shows.  
We both enjoy very much playing together, finding tactics to beat the other team.   Um, it's just so much enjoyment.   We have good communication.   She's always having fun on the court.   You know, if we lose, we're not being very down.   We kind of looking forward for the next one.  
I guess just being positive is our key.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT