US OPEN
September 6, 2005
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Can you talk about the last set there, you took the momentum in the second set, but then she started to play better. 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Well, when she took a bathroom break, she came back, she was completely different person.  She played the first few games very aggressive, very clean, no.  She just made winners, you know.  By dropping my serve, it made it very difficult.  But then at 5-2, I managed to break her as well.  But it's been disappointing, the last game.  I had everything in my hands.  I had 40-15 up.  Suddenly, I don't know from where a double-fault came.  Then I missed an easy backhand and just gave it to her in the rally.  I felt like if I would get this game, she would be fragile, that I could have win the match.  
 
Q.  You had a really excellent serve on the final point.  She made an even better return. 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Yes, yeah.  Well, I mean, you have to be also lucky at some stage.  And sometimes there have been a lot of strange calls; I didn't know if it was in or out.  But I felt really uncomfortable on the court because of that because, I mean, we playing one of the best Grand Slam tournaments and so many wrong calls.  
 
Q.  Did her return of service on that final point catch you by surprise? 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Pardon?  
 
Q.  On the final point, did her return catch you by surprise? 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  A little bit.  Maybe I was not expecting it.  I thought maybe I would just make either easy point or a put-away.  But it went like a bullet so... 
 
Q.  There was a lot of gesturing on the courts from both the players, and then the argument with the chair umpire. 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Well, I guess I can't say the quality of the match was well.  We both were on and off on court.  We had breakpoints, we had really bad points, lots of unforced errors.  I think it was very tough mentally match.  We both wanted to win.  We both fought hard.  We both stick to the last point.  And, I guess, you know, because we both wanted to win, we were sometimes disappointed in some points and that's why we were little bit overreacting I can say (laughing).  
 
Q.  You had only, I think, one breakpoint in the Wimbledon match.  Tonight you returned serve much better. 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Yeah, I did better today.  I could read where she was serving, and I think that helped me a lot as well.  
 
Q.  Is it still exciting when you play someone else that's Russian because you guys have had so much success, and each year there's been more and more of an impact?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Well, you try not to think of who you play, which country they come from.  It's just an opponent and you want to keep it that way.  
 
Q.  You're not on the Fed Cup team; is that correct?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  No.  That's correct. 
 
Q.  Did you ask to be in it?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  I haven't asked, but actually because I was expecting probably that every single player would come and play because it's the final game.  But they decided to keep the team the way they played the semifinal.  
 
Q.  They would take Douchevina over you. 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Well, it's their decision.  I don't blame them.  Maybe it's even better for me because I have to attend a trip to Romania for the Habitat for Humanity.  That's next week Tuesday, Wednesday.  That would be difficult to go and practice with my teammates in Paris.  
 
Q.  Are you hurt by that decision? 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Well, in kind of way, yes, because, I mean, I would will to help my team and I would will to be there and support.  If they don't want me to be playing, at least I could have been there and support in some kind of way.  
 
Q.  What did you see when the ball bounced out of the stands?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  You know, I couldn't really understand what it was, so I just kept on playing the point.  I had the chair umpire stand there, so really didn't understand what was happening.  
 
Q.  She wanted to play a let, clearly?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Yeah, but I think it was a decision of the chair umpire.  
 
Q.  From where she was standing, she couldn't see it until your shot bounced twice. 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Yeah, was the reason.  Was the reason.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT