WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2005
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Nadia Petrova.  English questions first.  
 
 
Q.  When Maria seems particularly up against it on breakpoints and stuff, the decibel level, volume of her shrieks goes up.  Does that put you off at all?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Today has been very difficult weather conditions especially.  It was very windy and the wind was changing one direction and then another direction.  And that's why you could see there and here a little bit of silly mistakes or whatsoever, you know.  But, yeah, she was very focused today.  Yeah, she really went for some shots.  But I felt I was a bit unlucky.  She had a few let calls.  She hit a few lines.  Some calls I can a little bit argue about.  But, you know, it seems like everything went in the favor of her today.  
 
Q.  The shrieking doesn't put you off in a game, does it, when she hits the shot? 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Not at all.  Not at all.  Especially at this stage of the tournament, the level is changing, you know.  It starts to get faster and stronger.  You just have to switch, change yourself to a different level of play.  
 
Q.  How well do you think she played today?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  I think she played well, especially the important points.  Also she been serving well as well on the important points.  Yeah, I think I'll give her good chance to win it again.  
 
Q.  Given how steadily well you've played for so long, do you look at this now as another great result for you or another close call and you just didn't quite get it?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Both.  It's been a good round for me, quarterfinals at Wimbledon.  The first time I achieved that.  It takes me quite a while to get used to the grass.  It's a very frustrating surface, I can say.  Yeah, I was a bit close.  I felt pretty well today.  But I think a little bit too many free points, and that's why she won today.  
 
Q.  She plays Venus in the next round. 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Right.  
 
Q.  It's going to be a hard-hitting match, isn't it? 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  It is.  Both players hitting hard.  But I think Maria is a little bit more consistent than Venus. 
 
Q.  Do you believe you've taken another leap perhaps these last couple months with the level of your game?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Well, first of all, I'm really looking forward for a little bit of rest.  I've played a lot of matches in the first half of the season, and didn't had any rest, so I feel a little bit mental worn out.  A good rest will do.  Then, of course, I feel confident.  I feel like my tennis is improve that I'm playing.  I'm playing on a different level at the moment, so I can compete much better with the top players.  I can beat them, as well.  
 
Q.  Used to always make a big deal out of Anna Kournikova not winning a title.  You still haven't had your first title.  Do you ever thinking of maybe going down a tier or is it totally not an issue for you?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Totally not an issue.  Well, of course I want to win my first title.  I was a few times very close.  All those times I was really unlucky.  I've had a good runs twice, semifinal of the French Open.  I reached quarters here, quarters at the US Open.  I think it's just a matter of patience.  Sooner or later it will happen.  It's like a good example, it's not necessary being No. 1 winning Grand Slam.  Same here.  It's not necessary to win tournaments, having titles, but be in Top 10.  Just a matter of how consistent you are in the tournaments.  Yeah, if I will get all the time semis, finals, quarters, it's a good effort.  It's a lot of tennis.  
 
Q.  Do you ever joke around and kid around with anybody about this?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Yeah, I give a hard time to my coach (laughter).  
 
Q.  What do you tell him?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  But he said exactly same as me.  He's not really putting any pressure.  He's saying, you know, I don't care if you don't win.  When you finish your career, it's not really -- it doesn't really count, you know.  People will forget it all fast.  I think it's just most important to do well in Grand Slams and then you stay in the memory of people.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT