TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 10, 2004
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Nadia, please. 
 
 
Q.  So many people are injured.  Is it a screwy year, a funny year?  Nobody knows who's going to play anywhere. 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  You name it (smiling).  
 
Q.  But is it good for people like you, more opportunity?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  I guess so, of course.  It gives a little space to play and to get through in the tournaments, that's true.  But of course it's a little bit disappointing that the year just started and already top athletes, you know, are already not playing some tournaments - and big tournaments.  Especially before a first Grand Slam coming, I think it's going to hurt them doing the big events not to have their matches in the previous tournaments.  
 
Q.  How are you feeling?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  I feel good. 
 
Q.  You're well?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  I'm good, thank you (smiling).  
 
Q.  The Russians have obviously made a lot of headway here.  It does appear that when they get into a final with somebody like Serena - I'm talking about Dementieva in Miami  - they almost seem satisfied with getting to that final and don't seem to think they can win it.  Do you think you can go through and win a big final? 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  I'm pretty confident about myself because I had already a win against Serena this year.  So if I can beat her, I can beat anybody. It is just a matter of how you prepare to play.  You just have to go out there and try to think what you have to do instead of thinking who you facing and how many wins that person has and what that person has done in previous years, as you play another player.  
 
Q.  Do you think the atmosphere in the locker room is different when you have a lot of the bigger names not around?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  I don't notice any difference.  Everything goes in the same flow, I would say.  
 
Q.  I'm sure you're sick of the question of why there's so many good Russian players, so I won't ask it. 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Thank you (smiling).  
 
Q.  But  - but  - in the old days, before your time of course, the Australian men dominated the world, and it was like "Team Australia".  They were all for one.  They went out together, they drank together, they ate together, they helped each other, they practiced together.  Is there a feeling like that among the Russian women?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Unfortunately, we are missing that feeling.  I think it has to do with all of us, we practice in all different countries, like some are in America, in Amsterdam, Kuznetsova in Spain, and so on and so on.  I think we just, you know, are little bit because of that, you know, little bit separated from each other.  When we get together when we play Fed Cup, that's the only time we really get like friendly, dinners, everything.  But on the tournaments, it seems like we don't have time for it.  We try to be friendly in the locker room, but nothing really more than that.  
 
Q.  Do you think women find it more difficult to separate the competition and the personal side?  Guys just kind of get on with it.
 
NADIA PETROVA:  That actually also could be.  Women also are different from men.  Even you compare women in the circuit to the men's circuit, you know, they have more friendship than women.  I think it's  - I don't know  - it's kind of jealousy, you know, around.  
 
Q.  It's not that easy to go out to dinner with someone you might have to play in a couple of rounds or with whom you're competing?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  No. 
 
Q.  Even if they're from the same country?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  I am eating with my own teammates.  I can't really remember when was the last time, because I spend most of the time with my coach.  So if I go  -- well, I have to go with my coach because I  cannot -- well, it won't be nice, because we are part of a team.  I'm here like for him, he is here for me.  We do the things together.  And if I go with him with Russians and I obviously speak Russian, it's not going to be polite to him.  So I think those things also prevent a little bit the friendship.  
 
Q.  There are some coaches that cooperate with other coaches?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Yes, they do.  But usually they get together later at night downstairs in the bar somewhere (smiling). 
 
Q.  When you're asleep?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Yeah (smiling).  
 
Q.  Do you still have time sometimes to have fun, or is it only work, work, work, and that's it?  I mean, because years ago, players  - both men and women  - had some time, some relax moment.  Do you still have it or not at all? 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Well, there are always, you know... 
 
Q.  Only when you lose, I mean?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Well, when you lose, you might go in the wrong direction.  It's always good, you know, after couple of tournaments in a period of a break, like one week, two weeks, like one night relax, two nights relax, just maybe go to the club or stay late, do some things with people you know without thinking that, "Tomorrow I have to get on court, so I have to go to bed at this time so I feel good for tomorrow."  So you can't really, like, go easy.  
 
Q.  There was a woman from television at one point interviewing some American players about what they were reading, American men.  She was shocked at their ignorance, because she had read all these authors  - American as well as Russian and so on.  Do you find the Russian players are reading much?  Are you reading much?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Yes, yes.  We do reading a lot.  I prefer like classical literature, all those famous writers. 
 
Q.  Dostyevsky and so on?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Yeah, Tolstoy and so on and so on.  But now we have a new generation of this time writers, and I see a lot of time in the station coming with a book, you know, with brand new authors.  But we do read, we do read, especially on the road.  
 
Q.  Do you feel sometimes that you are losing part of your youth because you are so much involved just with tennis?  And, also, if you always go out to dinner with your coach, I mean, the only possibility to have a boyfriend is to fall in love with the coach or what..?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  (Smiling).  Well, about the youth, I feel myself, you know, I'm at the right spot where I should be.  I had my time when I was younger, you know.  I had a lot of fun.  I grew up, I must say, around sport as well because my parents are athletes, so I was always active.  I'm happy to be playing tennis.  I'm happy to discover the world and be in different countries instead of just, you know, I don't know... You never know.  Maybe you just pick some bad habit or something.  And here, we have to look after ourselves, be healthy, try to stay healthy, and I think this is the best thing about sport, you know  - you always keep your body in the best shape.  But, as you say, you know, being a professional tennis player, it's not that easy to have a relationship because most - if you have a relationship, you like always your boyfriend to be with you on the road.  You see some couples do that, some players can do that.  But for most, it's pretty difficult.   And I'm at that stage of my life, you know, I'll be turning 22 in June, so... 
 
Q.  Too early?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Too early.  I think I have a lot of time in front of me.  
 
Q.  Do your parents think that you are lucky, or they thought they were more lucky when they were doing sports at high level?  One question.  And the second one, your father was probably more interested in developing strength while your mother is speed.  What did you do when you were young?  They were pushing you to do more something than something else, or you made your own choice and so on?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Well, I'm gonna start with the question number two.  They didn't push me for anything.  Tennis just, you know, came up as just an idea.  I was, as I say, a lot with my parents in the practices, in the competitions.  I start tennis when I was eight.  To start athletic in that age is way too early, so they just tried to introduce me to tennis only because they were working, both of them, and after school they didn't want me to be by myself, you know, maybe I could hang out with some kids outside.  And instead of that, I was doing something totally different.  And I think they choose the right sport.  As you say, power and speed, it's all combine in tennis.  
 
Q.  Do you ever talk with your parents about how the only way, when they were youngsters, the only way they could travel was through sport and how things are so much freer for you now?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  Well, my mom was the only one who was traveling for my family.  She was performing and she was on a team of the USSR at the time.  And for them, everything was arranged for traveling, but anyone else couldn't go anywhere.  
 
Q.  So do you talk to them about that, about how life was so much different for them when they were your age?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  I do have some conversations with my mom because she went through a lot of things and she can learn me some things, so she has a lot of experience with that.  
 
Q.  How far was your father from reaching a level to be traveling?  I mean, he was not in the national team. 
 
NADIA PETROVA:  No, he was not, he was not. 
 
Q.  Was he close?  No?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  No, he never had a chance to travel.  
 
Q.  If and when you win a Grand Slam, do you care whether the Williamses and the Belgians are all playing or not?
 
NADIA PETROVA:  It doesn't really matter to me.  If they play, I win, it's extra.  If I win without them, it will stay in everybody's memory that I won a Grand Slam.   
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT