CHINA OPEN
October 3, 2010
Nadia Petrova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. PETROVA/X. Han
  6-2, 6-2

 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please. 

 Q. (Through translation.) First, how would your comment your match for today? Do you believe that the opponent have created enough pressure on you?
 NADIA PETROVA: Well, I'm gonna start, you know, speaking about the weather. The conditions are quite difficult today, and it's very difficult to play your best tennis in this kind of weather conditions. 
 I must say, you know, I played pretty clean tennis. I served well. I put the pressure when it's necessary. I broke early in the beginning of both sets, so I'm very happy with my performance and looking forward then for the next one already. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Playing against a Chinese player it seems always you can beat them easily. Would you give some comments about the match between you and the Chinese player? What is the advantage of your game against the Chinese player? What do you think is the weaknesses in the Chinese player's game?
 NADIA PETROVA: I will talk about today's match. I was playing a girl much younger than me, just coming on the tour still out of top 100, so I have more experience behind my shoulders than she is. I just felt much more confident out there, and I have been playing better tennis today. 
 I can't talk about the other girls. They seem like, you know, they doing reasonably well on the tour, and I think I'm not the one to be asked that question why maybe they're not performing well or why maybe they're not as high in the ranking. I can't really answer that question. 

 Q. I don't know whether you noticed, there are four Chinese players play against Russian players today here in the court, including your match. I won't say there is a rivalry. Three of them lost. But I think as the staying power of women's tennis, what kind of tennis do you think that Russian players showed to Chinese people today here in court? 
 NADIA PETROVA: I'd say it's a very powerful dominant tennis. We like to play fast. We like to be aggressive, and we are fighting from the beginning to the end, and I think we have a lot of competition among each other. We don't like losing.
 That's why, you know, we put all our heart and effort in every single match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT