KB FED CUP, FIRST ROUND
April 16, 1999
Vjeran Friscic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








IVA MAJOLI:  First of all, I want to thank the American team and the organization for really putting up a great week for us, and unfortunately we couldn't play at home.  I'm sure everybody was very excited to have American players in our country, and we wanted to really welcome them nicely, but circumstances didn't allow this to bring the American players to our home, so hopefully next time they're going to have as good a time as we have here.  I guess I'm starting, I'm playing the first one with Chanda Rubin.  I haven't played Chanda for a very, very long time, so I almost forget how she played, but I think we should enjoy the weekend, it's a really big thing for Croatia to be in the First Division, and no matter what happens we're going to stay in the First Division, we're going to fight as hard as we can, and we'll see, the better one is going to win.  I'm just very excited to be here, to play for Croatia this weekend.

CAPTAIN VJERAN FRISCIC:  I like the way the draw decided. Iva is experienced, she will enjoy playing first.  And after that, Silvija is coming, so we will have two great matches tomorrow.  We have, I hope, weather like that.  And as I said yesterday, this will be really a win for tennis.  Tennis will benefit most.  I actually think that this is such a match that you can't play bad, it is actually both teams just gain.


Q.   When did you all get here?

IVA MAJOLI:  I came yesterday from Florida.

IVANA ABRAMOVIC:  Monday.


Q.   Do you think it's an advantage that you will have played recently, to be playing again, just so soon after?

IVA MAJOLI:  Yeah, but I've played tournaments, and I played the same surface in Florida, and I don't think that should be a problem.  So I'll just enjoy the match.  I'm actually happy I'm playing the first one.  I was saying I wish I played first, so I'm glad.  We'll just see what happens.


Q.   Is it difficult to keep up with what's going on at home, and what are your thoughts?

IVA MAJOLI:  Well, it's not really going on in our home.  It's actually in the other part of the country.  So I don't really -- I can't really say what's been going on.  I've been following, but not a hundred percent.  Like before when it really was happening in Croatia.


Q.   Iva, the fact that it's next (inaudible.)

IVA MAJOLI:  Well, of course it's a concern.  Anymore it's a concern, not just in our country, but anywhere.  I'm feeling really sad, actually for the people, because I think they're all suffering, because of the one leader, Milosevic.


Q.   (Inaudible.)

IVA MAJOLI:  I heard yesterday when I arrived.  I know she had problems with her wrist, and yesterday when I came they said she won't be playing.  But I think the whole American team is really strong, no matter who plays it's going to be a tough match.  I know she's been struggling with her wrist for a few weeks.


Q.   Does that make the United States more vulnerable?

IVA MAJOLI:  It's hard to say, I think we should go into each match and do our best.  Like I say, it's professional tennis, I think in the Fed Cup everyone can beat everyone, so I think we should enjoy and have a great weekend. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT