KIA CLASSIC
March 28, 2021
Haley Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Haley, five birdies today; shot 1-under.  Take us through the day and maybe a birdie that stood out more than the others.
 HALEY MOORE:   Yeah, today was a good day.  Made a lot of birdies.  Had one rough hole, but, I mean, it's golf.  It happens.  But I just really kind of stayed strong after that.  Made one birdie coming in.
 And I would say in the birdie that stood out was on No. 12.  It was a long putt and I was due for one all week.  I had so many close ones.
 That one finally went in, so...
 Q. Had to feel good.
 HALEY MOORE:   Yeah, it did.
 Q. Take us through the week.  Hometown kid playing right in your backyard and looking at a career-best finish on the LPGA.
 HALEY MOORE:   It's been great here in my hometown.  Little bummed not to have my family out here, but I know they were watching at home and everything.
 But it was just great to be out here and playing good.  To my good friend James, on the bag, he kept me calm and cool this whole week, so props to him.
 Q. 8, 9, 10, and 12, all birdies.  A lot of putts that were not gimmes there.  What were you feeling in that stretch of golf there.
 HALEY MOORE:   Yeah, I mean, I was close all week with putts like those.  I knew if I stayed patient that they were going to fall.  I just kept patient and just really focusing on my line of where I wanted to start it, and that was the main key.
 So I just stayed patient out there.  I just knew that a putt was going to fall for me at one point.
 Q. I know it's fresh and it's just a few minutes after, but can you assess what it means to you, all the battles to get to this point and have your best LPGA tournament here in San Diego?
 HALEY MOORE:   It really means a lot.  I think just staying at home is key, and kind of playing a course that you have before.  I came out here weeks before and was really preparing.  I mean, especially on a course like this.  These greens aren't easy out here and you really to really kind of focus on like where you want to hit it.
 You want to hit it in the right -- I kind of I divide these greens into quadrants.  I think you got to it hit it in the right quadrant.  If you're in the wrong one you could have one of those really funky little putts that you really have to grind on and it at least two-putt.
 So I think having some extra practice like that and just kind of getting lines off the tee.  And ball striking was huge this week, and I've definitely improved on this since my first start out here.
 Q. How much of a confidence boost can this give you moving forward that you know you've been in the mix on Sunday and played well?  I know you think you can play better but you played well.  Can a result like this really boost you as you're progressing through your career?
 HALEY MOORE:   Yeah, definitely.  I mean, Thursday, Friday you just kind of battle and do what you can, and then once you know you're to the weekend then once you get to the weekend you know sometimes they do make it a little bit easier.
 I think this week moving up some of the tees on the weekend really kind of was in my favor as well just because I knew that those were going to be some really good scoring opportunities and that I could easily take advantage of them.
 So knowing you have some of those, and if you do have some possible easier pins out there, then you know you can attack.
 Q. Final one from me.  You got emotional at the end it looked like.
 HALEY MOORE:   Yeah.
 Q. What was that about?
 HALEY MOORE:   It was to play next week into the ANA, but -- I think I came short, but it's okay.
 Q. Is it okay.  Thank you, Haley.  Great year, Haley.
 HALEY MOORE:   Thank you.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT