U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2017
Haley Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did it go?
HALEY MOORE: It was good.  You know, pretty solid all day.  I had control most of the match, and I hit the ball really well, so I look forward to coming here tomorrow and keep winning.
Q. What's it mean to you to play in a junior event?  You probably didn't think you'd really get the chance to play in this again.
HALEY MOORE: Yeah, it definitely means a lot because I thought it was my last year last year, but then after my first match, they came up, and they're like, hey, the age is extended to 18, and I'm really excited, and I just -- this tournament, we get spoiled.  It's probably one of the best tournaments the USGA puts on, so I'm really excited about it.
Q. I was wondering about all the players from California who are here.  Do you guys all kind of know each other?
HALEY MOORE: Yeah, a lot of us know each other.  Like we see each other at a bunch of tournaments.  I mean, it's always fun.  Being from California, even though the weather is kind of a little hot for us, but we love coming out here and playing with each other.  Sometimes if we have to play against each other, it's always fun to watch because we always grind it out together.
Q. There's going to be two of them that are San Diego area, girls that are playing each other tomorrow.
HALEY MOORE: Yeah.
Q. I'll bet those get interesting.  Have you had those situations before?
HALEY MOORE: No, but I mean, it's golf.  They can have a hot round or we can have a hot round.  Anything can happen.  Even if we win or lose, we're still proud of how far we got.
Q. Do you feel like your college experience so far has helped you settle into big championships like this?
HALEY MOORE: Yeah, it's definitely helped a lot, like being patient and just staying in the mindset.  Yeah, and I mean, this course can easily be like a college course just because it's so tough.  Yeah, I've definitely learned a lot, and my college experience has helped me really prep for this tournament.
Q. What was involved in you graduating early, getting out of high school a year early?
HALEY MOORE: It was kind of more my coach's decision.  I was playing in a school tournament in the summer, and my mom got the call from the coach, like hey, we want to try to have Haley come in early, she can help us try to compete for a national championship.  It took me a little bit to think about it, but at the end, I love to challenge myself, and I wanted to give it a try, and I did pretty well, so I was pretty happy about that decision.
Q. What did you have to do classroom-wise?
HALEY MOORE: All the classes that I had to take were online, and I had to finish in about three weeks, three weeks' pace, and I did all of that.
Q. Like a semester of class?
HALEY MOORE: In three weeks.  It was a lot of work, but I had all the support, and I was able to get it done.  I mean, sometimes I regret it, but today I don't because I just love being here.
Q. Did you think you'd be competing for a national championship as a freshman?
HALEY MOORE: No.  I mean, we came up short for the team match play, but coming in tied for second individually, it was pretty like emotional and like pretty fun, just because I was so new that I didn't think I had the college experience yet, but I was able to hang with those girls for the whole four rounds.
Q. Specific to this course, what do you like about it, and more broadly, what do you like about Missouri and the St. Louis area?
HALEY MOORE: I mean, this course your carry distance helps a lot, especially on all the holes with the water.  I mean, this is my first time playing in Missouri, so if I were to go to any other course, I would just see kind of like this, like how -- I've never been on a course like this.  This course is in great condition, and it's a beautiful course.  I mean, yeah, I like St. Louis, even though the weather is a little bit humid.  I'm getting used to it.
Q. Have you gone to see the arch or any of the scenic stuff yet?
HALEY MOORE: No, but hopefully by the time I can plan on it, I'll definitely go to the arch, go to the zoo, and do a lot of fun stuff.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT