ANA INSPIRATION
April 3, 2015
Haley Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  HALEY MOORE: It was at first kind of hot but then got a little nerve-racking out there because I had a couple bad holes, so I was just telling myself just to keep fighting.Q. How does it feel to actually -- I understand you made the cut.  Have you heard official word, did you make the cut?HALEY MOORE: Yes, I have.Q. How does that feel?HALEY MOORE: I feel so much relief now.  I look forward to this great weekend coming up.Q. You look like you're almost ready to cry.  Is it from actually making the cut here, or was it from the finish and you're a little bit nervous about that?HALEY MOORE: Sort of the finish and making the cut because it was my first time ever in a major tournament, and I never would have thought I would make a cut.Q. How happy are you and how proud are you, especially when your mom is here watching?HALEY MOORE: I'm proud of myself and proud of my mom for always sticking up for me, being there for me no matter what happens.Q. The level of play here, has it been what you expected or more difficult?  Your thoughts about what it's been like to play in a major?HALEY MOORE: When I first start it's actually okay, but then when I get down like the last couple holes, it's a little hard, so I just have to keep -- I've just got to keep breathing and keep relaxing down the last couple stretch of holes.Q. So when you struggle it feels like it's even heavier than if you were playing at a high school event?HALEY MOORE: Yeah, because it's just a much higher level, and yeah.Q. Your thoughts about this weekend?  What are your goals for the weekend?  I assume the biggest goal was making that cut, and you've made it.  Now do you enjoy the next two days?HALEY MOORE: Yeah, I'm just going to enjoy it and hope that this will be one of the best tournaments and weeks I've ever been in.Q. You were basically just playing steady, consistent golf on the front nine, bogey-free.  You looked like you were in a zone.  How did it feel?HALEY MOORE: I just felt good.  I was hitting good putts and just playing the ball good.  I feel that for me, like 14 through 18, I've got to try to be even par because yesterday that was my struggle, those tough finishes holes.Q. What part of the game do you kind of want to work on?HALEY MOORE: Probably my mid-irons.  I'm kind of hooking the ball a little bit, so I may try to just go try to figure that out on the range real fast.Q. So to be playing on the weekend during the LPGA's major, you're just going to try to enjoy it now?  You've already accomplished it.HALEY MOORE: Yeah, I'm just going to enjoy it.  Just enjoy it and just be glad that I'm here.Q. Today you had a late tee time.  Were you antsy in the morning?  How did you fill your time?HALEY MOORE: I was just trying to relax.  An afternoon tee time kind of isn't my thing because I'm always an early riser and it's hard sometimes just sitting there doing nothing, but I was just trying to feel relaxed.Q. How does it feel, there's a lot of club members that remember you from June out here cheering you on.  How does that feel?HALEY MOORE: It feels so great that a lot of people come out and cheer for me because that means a lot, just like telling me just to keep fighting.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT