ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2015
Haley Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Congratulations on making it to your first round of a major championship.  Talk a little bit about it out there?HALEY MOORE: I had some fun on the front nine.  I had some good scores going, and kind of settled down on the back.  I felt pretty good today.  I wasn't quite as nervous as what I thought.Q. Yeah, I saw you smiling and laughing around the first tee before you teed off.  How did it feel playing with Charley Hull?  She's a young player and up and coming herself?HALEY MOORE: Yeah, she has so much talent very young, and I learned a lot from her.  So I hope to take some advice from her for these next couple years.Q. You're 3-under through five.  Did you see your name on top of the leaderboard?HALEY MOORE: No, I think my blood was pumping too much, and I think I just kind of started pressing a lot.Q. Can you just talk about what the experience was like?  It's obviously been a whirlwind from finding out on Monday that you were going to be here?HALEY MOORE: It's just happened so fast.  It's one of the best times I've ever had.  And it is getting even better playing with these great girls and learning how they play and how they communicate.Q. What have the past couple days been like preparing for this?  Going into Monday and knowing you're going to be here?HALEY MOORE: I've been preparing for this.  At first I was a lot nervous, but I've just been having fun along the way.Q. Were you nervous coming out here today to start?  You obviously played very, very well.  What were those first couple holes like starting out?HALEY MOORE: They were pretty good.  My putting was good.  I kind of slowed down a bit, but I think my heart was just pumping a little bit.  But at least I came back and I didn't blow up.  I finished pretty good.Q. What does it feel like to be able to recover like you did?  Obviously you had a couple of tough holes there where you had some bogeys, but you were able to come back.HALEY MOORE: Just that there's a lot of golf left.  Just to keep fighting and you're never out of it.Q. Lexi Thompson, I think, shot 73 last year and won.  So does that give you confidence going into the rest of the weekend?HALEY MOORE: Maybe, because if she can do it, then I can do it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT