AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 6, 2019
Haley Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's the assessment?
HALEY MOORE: I'm pretty happy how I played all week, and out here, to shoot even par out here is pretty awesome, and with the birdie on 16 with a lot of people, that was pretty awesome.  That's going to be a good memory that's going to last in my head forever.
Q. What did you hit?
HALEY MOORE: I hit like an easy 6-iron.  I had about 165 and I just hit it pretty easy.  It didn't look that close from the tee box but when I got up there, I was like, wow, it's pretty close and it almost went in.  That was pretty cool.
Q. Story of your day almost, just so many good putts.  It was amazing, how close it was.
HALEY MOORE: It's amazing when you're just rolling the ball good, and it might go in and it might not, and it's just golf.  Out here, you know it's not going to bump or anything just because these greens are pure.  I made some really good par saves and I feel like without my local caddie, I would have not made as many putts or played as much break on a lot of these holes.
Q. Great par save on 7.  Pretty happy with yourself?
HALEY MOORE: Yeah, hole 7, hole 14, I made a really good one, and then 17, also.  I felt like -- and then 18 was just -- I felt like the holes -- besides 18, the holes where I hit the best drives, I just kind of had a little opening and said, okay, I can get this as close to the green as possible and try to get up-and-down.
Q. What were the putts on, you said 14 and 17, so what were those putts?
HALEY MOORE: So 14, I hit my driver right and I had like punched it out to about 20 yards short left of the green, and I bumped -- pin was way back right and had to bump it into the hill and I aimed probably about like this far out, it didn't stop and went just off the green.  Had about a three-foot break and just dived in the hole.
17, I hit my drive kind of straight left, it just didn't really fade a little bit, so I kind of hooked it around the tree and went into the bunker and hit it out to about two feet.
Q. The drive on 18, just got away from you?
HALEY MOORE: Yeah, but it's just -- that's a pretty tough driving hole no matter what.  It would have been nice to hit it perfect and be in the fairway, but I hit a really good punch shot.  That was probably my only option.  I was just trying to get it back into the fairway and then to be able to hit it on to the green and almost make that putt was pretty cool.
Q. Just the experience of the crowd, the encouragement all the players get coming in, what is that like?
HALEY MOORE: This crowd today is absolutely amazing.  I never would have expected this for a women's tournament, especially an amateur.  This kind of just feels like a major tournament with this crowd, and it's a huge thing for women's golf in the future.  Just to show and to be able to play here at Augusta with these great fans is pretty awesome.
Q. The par 5s on the front, you went for both of them -- did you feel like you were going for 8?
HALEY MOORE: I was just trying to get it close, just because it's very severely uphill.  So it's kind of hard to get there.
Q. But yeah, through 2 and 8, you just left yourself a putt?
HALEY MOORE: Yeah, because hole 2, I was kind of on the downslope hitting and I just didn't know how it was going to come out, so I just tried my best.  I did hit a pretty good chip.  I just missed the putt on No. 8.  I kind of got too cute with my wedge shot, but I just lagged my putt up there close.
Q. Were you surprised anybody hit it longer than you on 2?
HALEY MOORE: If I would, I would have to say maybe Maria Fassi or Jennifer Kupcho.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT