AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 5, 2019
Haley Moore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What do you think?  How was it out there?  
HALEY MOORE: Oh, my gosh, this course is absolutely amazing.  I'm just blessed and grateful to be given this opportunity, and I'm just so excited for tomorrow.  I'm just going to soak in every moment.   
 Q.  The length out there, was it pretty appropriate for this group?  
HALEY MOORE: Yeah, pretty appropriate.  There are some long holes out there, but with the slope change, it definitely can fit for some long hitters, but it's definitely a challenge out there for everyone with how undulating all these greens are.   
 Q.  Are you going with a local caddie tomorrow, or are you staying with John?  
HALEY MOORE: I'm staying with John, but he caddies here a lot, too, so he knows the course really well.  He caddies for here than the other course.  Like he's one of the main local caddies here.   
 Q.  How do you know him?  
HALEY MOORE: I just -- I don't know, I mean, I just kind of requested one, and he drew me.   
 Q.  So he is a local caddie?  
HALEY MOORE: Yeah.  And so then he got in contact with me early and just told me about both courses.  Just kind of getting me ready for the tournament, what to work on pre-coming into here.   
 Q.  The par 5s on the back nine, what did you hit into those, if I may ask?  Did you go for them?  
HALEY MOORE: No.  Actually on 13, I actually -- because I hit more of a fade for my driver, so that hole doesn't really favor me.  So I have to hit 3-wood and make it a three shot.  But I feel like even if it's a three shot hole, you can still make birdie because you can have a good angle into the pin.   
13, if I would have gone for, it would I have had about 220 yards in.  Tomorrow, the course was pretty wet today, so tomorrow, if it does dry out, I might have shorter in, so we'll consider it.  We'll see.   
 Q.  What surprised you the most, input you got from him or just in your walking the course, experience, design, strategy, tactics-wise, what caught you most by surprised?  
HALEY MOORE: I was pretty surprised by on some of these holes how much break you have to have on the green just to keep it within three or four feet.  Because a lot of them, if you think you have enough break but you don't, it casually feeds way off to the least or the right and you just have a longer putt than expected.  There's not many straight putts out here, so having a local caddie helping you read these greens will be very key.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT