AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: TIGERS v ATHLETICS
October 13, 2006
Jeremy Bonderman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  After last week's performance, has your confidence level changed at all, or is it the same as you always approach things?   
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  Same as always.  You can't get too high, you can't get too low.  Just going to be ready to go.   
  
  Q.  Not looking too far ahead, but you could potentially have a chance to clinch again.  Have you allowed that thought to enter your mind, or can you not at this point?   
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  We've got to play the game first.  We'll see after tonight what we've got to do.  Either we'll be going to try and get another win, give us three wins, or try and clinch.  One way or the other, I'll be ready to go.  But I don't look that far ahead.   
  
  Q.  It's been a number of years, but is there any special feeling facing the Oakland A's or any familiarity with them at all?   
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  I know a lot of the guys, but it's too big of a series not to get caught up in what happened in the past.  We've got to win every day to play again.  It's my goal to win a game for the Detroit Tigers and go to the World Series hopefully.   
  
  Q.  Do you have any impressions of the A's lineup after watching them closely the last couple days?   
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  I mean, they're -- they've got a lot of power, a lot of professional hitters.  Just like the Yankees, I mean, you can't back down.  You've got to go out and attack them and try and make them hit at your pitch.  They're a great team or they wouldn't be in this situation.  It'll be fun.   
  
  Q.  With your knowledge of those guys as hitters and those hitters of you as a pitcher, who has the edge there?   
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  I'd say it's 50/50.  It's going to be -- for me, I mean, you see guys throughout your career and they see you and they watch film.  Everybody knows kind of what you do.  If you throw strikes and keep the ball down, you're going to be successful most of the time.   
  
  Q.  I know you don't want to look at the past, but just the situation you're in now, you were in the Moneyball back and all that, and to be facing the A's with all that history, can you just talk a little bit about that?   
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  Yeah, I've faced them I don't know how many times in my career now.  I mean, I've beat them before, they've beat me, so I don't really have any hard feelings anymore about it.  I'm with the Tigers and I'm happy to be here.  I'm going to be ready to go.   
 For me to have a grudge against the team now, you've got to put that aside anyways as it is.  This is a shot of a lifetime to go to the World Series, and I want to do the best I can to give my team the opportunity to go there.   
  
  Q.  Maybe you don't change your approach, but can you sense that people look at you differently because of what you did last week, or no?   
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  I don't really care.  I mean, if I would have lost, I would have still been the same person.  I just happened to have a great game and we won and we moved on.   
 You know, I don't feel like I need to change or people look at me any different.  I'm still going to go out and compete and I'm going to leave it all on the field.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT