AL DIVISION SERIES: TIGERS v YANKEES
October 7, 2006
Jeremy Bonderman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Jeremy, Jim just said that he thought the way Kenny pitched last night, as aggressive as he was, set a tone for you and convinced you to attack the strike zone as much as you did.  Did you feel that way?   
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  Kenny and me talked before his start, and we just kind of -- I told him, I said, You go out and do your thing and I'll do mine.  We'll take care of this.  Kenny did, so I had to live up to my word.   
 This is a great thing that happened to us.  I just fed off the crowd and what Kenny did last night, and just tried to get better as the game went on and I was able to do that I think.   
  
  Q.  Can you just go through the range of emotions, your last start here, to tonight?   
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  I gave up a six-run lead to clinch our division, and I wasn't going to let that happen tonight.  The guys got me a lead, and I wasn't going to let up and I wasn't going to give it back.   
 You know, this is a great Yankee team.  They are from top to bottom, manager all the way down, I knew I had to bring my A Game, and I was able to do that.   
  
  Q.  Did you want to finish the game, or did you want to stay in all nine?   
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  I told him before I went out, if I gave up a hit, I was getting a little tired.  I told him if I gave up something, come get me.  And I gave up a hit and they let me face Sheffield.  Made an unbelievable play to get that out and they brought in the relief.  The standing ovation I got from the crowd was unbelievable.   
  
  Q.  Perfect game even remotely out of your mind?   
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  I didn't care about that.  I just wanted to win.  Perfect game is, you know, would be nice some day.  But right now all I'm worried about is winning one game at a time and keeping our team in the game, to win the game.   
  
  Q.  You touched a little bit on last Sunday and what happened.  Based on that, a couple of tough losses, the one you had in Minnesota back in July.  Is this like a learning process for you in terms of this game?  You put away some of those demons that might have come up because of those games?   
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  You know, I got in trouble.  I had a great game in Minnesota.  I had a one-hitter.  Things started going south and I didn't stop it.  You know, it was very frustrating for me.   
 So I learn every time I go out to the mound.  Giving up a six-run lead when you're at home trying to clinch your division is very disappointing.  It hurt for a while.  But I threw a bullpen in New York and I talked to our pitching coach, Chuck, and he said, "You've got to understand, you've pitched great all year.  One outing isn't going to ruin your season.  You have a chance to come back home and send this back to New York or clinch it."   
 I just tried to focus and forget and put all of those things out of my mind at the time and go out and win a ballgame.   
  
  Q.  How did this club regroup so quickly and so well from what happened last week to the point where you're dominating the Yankees?   
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  This is a great team.  We hit a scuff in the road and a good team will bounce back.  We have a great team.   
 I think it's just, you know, from our skipper coming in and telling us, you know, Take it one game at a time.  If you lose one, you've still got to play tomorrow, and I think we took that to heart and came out and executed that.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT