AL DIVISION SERIES: TIGERS v YANKEES
October 6, 2006
Jeremy Bonderman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  I know you took last Sunday pretty hard.  What have you done to bounce back from that, get it out of your mind, get ready for tomorrow? 
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  Just trying to enjoy it.  We're in the playoffs.  It sucked, you know, being the way we got there.  You know, it's still the playoffs.  We were tied up 1-1.  Kenny is going to go out tonight and try and give us a shot to win it on Saturday. 

 Q.  How tough is it to have to wait till Game 4, just sit around and watch this for almost a week before you get to pitch? 
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  It's tough.  But, you know, I've been watching the hitters, trying to figure out stuff I can use in my game, and make sure I'm ready to go. 

 Q.  You've been around this park long enough, but you haven't had a whole lot of late afternoon games here.  How do the shadows play into pitching here, like a 4:00 start? 
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  I have no idea.  I don't hit. 

 Q.  This lineup you're facing, aside from the names in it, talk about the left-right balance they have going, how you're going to attack that? 
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  I'm going to pitch it just like I would anything.  They're a great hitting team.  Still everybody's got weaknesses.  You just got to expose them.  That's what I'm going to try and do. 

 Q.  You struggled for a while, got those three straight wins with Baltimore, Chicago, then Toronto.  Was there something that you felt like you had figured out in between those previous six, seven games, and those three? 
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  You know, I struggled for a little bit.  But, you know, the past games are the past.  I'm going to be ready to go.  I'm going to bring my best game and see what happens. 

 Q.  Will you feed off this crowd or will you try to shut it out?  What's your approach to that? 
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  I think I'm going to try and feed off it.  I'm just going to go out and I'm going to let it all hang out.  I'm just going to go out and give everything I got.  When I walk off the mound, I'm going to leave everything I had out there. 

 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about Sunday and the 6-0 lead.  Not the first time you'd inherited a game like that with that sort of a lead.  What happens?  Do you try to get the game over with too quickly?  Your stuff was good early in that game, but slowly it unraveled.  Can you give us a sense what happens physically and psychologically with you in that kind of a situation? 
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  I've let two of those get away this year.  Unfortunately, it's been later in the year.  I really don't -- I just kind of -- you know, I was throwing the ball well and ended up trying to do too much.  Threw a 3-2 breaking ball.  Get yourself in trouble instead of attacking the hitters and making them get themselves out. 
 I don't know.  I sucked.  I don't know what to tell you. 

 Q.  Can you talk about what you've taken from this experience of being an observer of the games at Yankee Stadium, even watching a guy like Verlander pitching yesterday? 
 JEREMY BONDERMAN:  It's fun.  I'm taking everything I can in.  The experience is awesome with New York.  The crowd there was phenomenal.  They were on their feet almost 90% of the game. 
 You know, just tried to soak up as much as I could of the atmosphere.  You know, you never know if you'll ever get back.  I'm looking forward to having my opportunity to go out there and hopefully win a ballgame. 


 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT