THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 12, 2020
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your round.
MARC LEISHMAN: I played well, just had one little mistake with a bad iron shot on 5, I think it was. Not much wrong, which was nice. I said last week, my track record hasn't been great around this golf course and it was nice to change after that.
Q. What do you think it is about your game and the way that you strike the golf ball I would think being around this place would be something that you would really enjoy.
MARC LEISHMAN: Golf's a funny game. Always something new. I only had one top-10 here, I had an 8th. I don't know, not sure what it is. Just hopefully I can keep doing what I'm doing and do better than the past.
Q. Does it help not getting blown around like the last couple of weeks here in Florida? How nice was it to just get out there and go, wow, I can actually fire at things and it will go the right distance?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it was good. I enjoy both. I enjoy playing in the wind and in some tough conditions. So it's nice getting out though in these conditions early, no wind, feel like you can really hit good shots. So I was able to do that, happy with the start.
Q. The obvious question, tomorrow fan-free and fan-free through Valero up to Augusta. Have you ever played in front of nobody before?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, a few years ago in Washington DC I played a group in front of Tiger, with no one out there, there was just the grounds staff and such, so it's different. We're going to have to work on getting the competitive juices flowing, even though there's no crowds. I don't really play much golf on my weeks off, so I don't generally play with no people around, even when I play at home. There's a lot of people out watching now so it will be interesting and I'll need to work on getting into it.
Q. Decision-wise, was it the right thing for the TOUR to do?
MARC LEISHMAN: I think they got to err on the side of caution. You see what the other sports are doing and, yeah, I mean, I'm not a doctor, obviously, I don't really know the ins and outs of it, but I think you certainly have to err on the side of caution and protect people.
Q. (No Microphone.)
MARC LEISHMAN: That will be very, very interesting. Yeah, hopefully it doesn't come to that. Hopefully this thing sorts itself out quickly and it's just a golf tournament. At the end of the day it's just a golf tournament, for the sake of everyone who is getting the coronavirus (No Microphone.) Hopefully we can avoid it. But we got to be careful.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT