ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 17, 2016
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Stress-free on the first day.  Great playing.  Save a little par at the 18th.  Great round to get it started her at the Arnold Palmer Invitational.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Good day.  Pretty stress-free, actually.  Like I said, a little further on par on 18 than I normally like.  Normally you struggle to keep the putt not rolling four feet past.  Hit it four feet short.   
Yeah, just got me a little bit there on the last.  A stress-free day and nice to play that way and roll some putts in.   
 Q.  We caught you at 17 with the tee shot on the par-3.  One of the better shots of the day.  You also converted the birdie there at 17.  
MARC LEISHMAN: I was happy with that one.  6-iron, probably pretty much where I was aiming, just a little bit left of that pin and rolled the putt in.  Hit a lot of good shots today.  Actually, I was happy with my game, drove it well in the fairways and hit a lot of greens.  Yeah, it's nice when you can play like that and get off to a good start.   
 Q.  How special to be a part of Mr. Palmer's tournament?  
MARC LEISHMAN: It's awesome.  I mean Arnold has done a lot for golf.  It's one of the best places, best tournaments of the year in a lot of different respects that we -- the way they look after the players, the families, the kids, the daycare.  We get spoiled there.   
The golf course is awesome, the food in the clubhouse, everything about it, and then you've got Mr. Palmer to go along with it.  So, he's obviously an awesome personality.  Great for the game and an honor to play.   
 Q.  Great playing.  Best of luck.  
MARC LEISHMAN: No worries.  Thank you.   
 Q.  When is the last time you had a stress-free round?  
MARC LEISHMAN: When I was about 14.   
 Q.  It's been awhile.  
MARC LEISHMAN: It's been awhile.  Yeah.  I mean I've been playing, you know, playing pretty well.  Normally a hole where you're fighting to make par but today it was --   
 Q.  18 was about as stressful as it got?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Exactly.  I had a couple of good two putts from long range.  18, that was obviously a nice roll in on the last.   
 Q.  5-under par round for you today.  Lot of players been talking about how difficult this course is playing.  You certainly made it look easy.  
 How would you assess it?   
MARC LEISHMAN: I played well today.  Drove the ball well and was hitting my irons well and rolled a few putts in.  It's nice to have a stress-free round like that on a golf course that's as good as this one.   
 Q.  Is this the kind of week you're going to be looking at kind of more of a condensed field you might not necessarily to have to go low for the next three rounds?  
MARC LEISHMAN: No.  I think you're going to have to keep doing what you're doing.  Maybe not three more of those but that will certainly take care of it, 20-under would do it.   
The greens are so perfect that you can roll them up there.  Yes, you're playing a little more conservative about the greens and make more putts.   
 Q.  5-under par round, how comfortable do you feel out there?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I felt comfortable today.  Obviously, you know, it's a funny game and can change very quickly.  I keep doing what I'm doing, you know, hopefully I can have three more of those and see where we end up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT