WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 1, 2015
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARC LEISHMAN:   It was a topsy turvy match, a bit all over the place.   Neither of us played great, but I guess I've got to advance and get lucky.

Q.   You say you didn't play great.   I think the golf course is playing harder since the marine layer came in.   That was an all world par that you made on 17?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, I made a few of those.   Hit a few drives.   I was going under a lot of ropes today.   I had to short of fashion some shots and was able to do it.   It did play a little tougher.   I made it look fairly tough, but my short game and putting got me over.

Q.   The putting, though, you relied on it for all three of your matches?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I have putted well.   In general, I made the putts that I've had to make.   That was disappointing to leave that short.   Seems like a lot of guys are having trouble with that 18th green, so I'm not the only one. 
The putter has been very good.   Looking forward to getting out there on the weekend.

Q.   You just disappointed Justin Rose, too, my friend?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, I know.   You win some, you lose some.

Q.   (Inaudible).
MARC LEISHMAN:   A lot of ups and downs.   We didn't play halve a whole lot of holes.   Neither of us played great, I wouldn't say.   Short game for the most part kept us in.   You have got to beat your opponent, I guess.   So I was lucky enough to go out and do that today.

Q.   Over the last few weeks, you took some time off, came back in New Orleans, played well, had a good finish there.   Then you came out here and won three in a row.   How were you able to get it going? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Maybe I should take a month off more often.   It's nice to play fresh, obviously not for that reason.   I don't know, apart from today, I've been driving the ball really well.   The putter feels really good in my hands.   Generally that's a pretty good combination if you are hitting fairways and holing putts.   Going to be hopefully a long weekend.   We'll see how it goes.   Just glad to get through and especially the way I've played today.

Q.   Looking ahead to the weekend, what are you planning?   Will things stay the same or any changes?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I better go hit a few balls this afternoon, I think, try and sort this long stuff out.   Just more of the same hopefully.   The same as the last couple days.   If my short game can be as good as what it was today, hopefully I can get through. 
It's one match at a time, one hole at a time really.   Hopefully I can make a long weekend.

Q.   (Inaudible).
MARC LEISHMAN:   In that belly there, it's brutal.   I hit it in there in the practice round and took enough club to make sure I got over that.

Q.   What were your thoughts?   You must have known that was going to be thick rough?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, that was a tough little shot.   I thought he's into 3, so just got a pretty hit a good shot and hopefully I can make the putt and was able to hit a good shot and make the putt.   I have that 1‑up lead.   Really wanted that 1‑up lead going to 18.   It was nice to have ‑‑ well, to only have to par the last to get through.   Didn't look like it was going to be enough there, but tricky green, really tricky.   Ten feet, left it short.

Q.   You didn't have to worry about other matches because your fate was in your control.   It's a little different playing match play, because usually you don't worry about other matches?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Normally as long as you win your match, you're good.   This is a bit different, I guess, especially for Rosie today.   If he didn't win‑‑ there's a lot of scenarios.   He needed me to lose, I guess.   I kind of didn't want to let that happen. 

Q.   I'd call it scrappy, but you did what you had to do and that's what match play is about?
MARC LEISHMAN:   It was pretty ugly.   I didn't hit the driver well at all which has been a strength the first two days.   I was missing fairways, but wasn't missing them in terrible spots.   I was still missing on the right side of the fairway and having a shot to the green and actually had a lot of birdie opportunities from bad tee shots. 
Probably the only one that really hurt me was the one on 11.   I hit it in the rough in an old divot and I couldn't move it because the ball would have moved and that's loss of hole.   I had to try and hit it and it just came out sideways.   That was the only one where it really hurt me missing the fairway.

Q.   I want to talk to you about that period of the match, you get that bad break and then he chips in on you when you look like you have the advantage on the next hole.   It's all square.   Pretty impressive that you were able to come back from that point?
MARC LEISHMAN:   That is the beauty of match play, I guess.   I've played enough match play to know that 2 or 3‑up, that can turn around really quickly.   I've been on both ends of that where I've turned it around and where I've had someone make birdies on me and beat me. 
Even the first couple of days, when I was 2 or 3‑up with only three or four to go, I knew I still had to keep hitting good shots.   There's nothing saying they can't birdie the last hole. 
It was nice to come back with‑‑ on that par‑3 to steady the ship a bit and then hit a terrible shot on the 14, worst shot probably anyone's hit all week.   You get that, got over it pretty quickly, very quickly, moved on to the next.

Q.   Tomorrow will be Gary Woodland or Webb Simpson.   Any thoughts on going into the round of 16?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Just have to play better than I did today definitely.   Anyone can win on any given day.   Just got to play good and hopefully they don't play better.   It's a funny thing.   You can shoot 7‑under and beat every other guy except the guy you are playing on that day.   That's why it's good and that's why it's‑‑ it has positives and negatives.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT