WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 30, 2015
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARC LEISHMAN:   Definitely, it's good.   I'm not sure if he won or not, if Lahiri won.   I guess whoever wins that match goes through, so we'll see how it goes.   If I can win, we'll be here Sunday.

Q.   What's been the key to your two wins?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I've driven the ball well actually.   Given myself a lot of chances.   Not handing any holes to my opponent, which is always disappointing in match play if you do that.   To not do that too many times has been the key.

Q.   (Inaudible).
MARC LEISHMAN:   Giving myself a lot of chances on the greens.   It's good to have chances and put pressure on the opponent.   Haven't handed too many holes to those guys either.   That's big when you can contest the holes. 

Q.   It's well publicized that your wife nearly lost her life a couple of weeks ago.   Tell us about that from your point of view. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, it was devastating there for a while.   It wasn't looking good at all, but she's coming good now which is good.   She is on the other side of it.   It's something you never want to go through.   For her to get better, we're really lucky. 
The golf is not life or death now.   I've always had a good perspective on my life and golf and all that, but now I want to hit good shots, but if I don't happen to pull a shot off, it's not the end of the world.   It's good to be outside again and in fresh air and doing what I love.

Q.   Is it true yesterday you faced a shot with a very small gap between two trees?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Well, it was a very small gap in some pretty solid trees.   There was probably 20 yards in front of me and probably a yard gap.   Put a 3‑iron through it.   I thought maybe I'll be able to pull it off and maybe win the hole or I won't and lose it.   It's nice to feel like that and feel like it's nothing to do lose. 

Q.   You have been powerful the first two days.   What is has been the biggest key to your success?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I've been driving the ball really well, hitting a lot of fairways and giving myself a lot of chances for birdies.   Haven't really handed any holes to my opponents, so that's a definitely a key in match play, as well.   Contesting every hole and had a few holes handed to me, and that tends to lead to wins.

Q.   How much momentum do you think you are carrying into tomorrow?
MARC LEISHMAN:   It's hard to say.   Every day is a new day.   Every opponent is a great player that's just playing his tournament.   I'm playing well, but you can play well and still get knocked out.   Just planning to continue what I'm doing, hopefully hole a few more putts hole.

Q.   You played last week.   Considering everything that happened with your wife and you and your family, as you've returned back to golf on the world stage, do you have a different perspective at all?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, definitely.   I felt like my perspective has always been fairly good.   I guess going through a life or death situation like that with someone so close to you, it really puts things into perspective big time. 
You realize thatsometimes you get frustrated on the golf course, you take it a little bit too seriously.   This week it's been like go for a shot, pull it off, great.   If I don't pull it off, it's all right.   Still a chance to get it up‑and‑down.   It's not going to turn into a crisis like I went through a couple of weeks ago.   It's pretty good feeling like this, to be honest, to be back out on the golf course.   Just happy to be out here and to be playing some good golf. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT