WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 2, 2014
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Despite the fact you bogeyed the last, I thought it was a good day for you. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   It was a good day.   Would have been nice to have a few lower.   Played well in parts and hit a few pretty ornery shots.   So to shoot a couple under was pretty decent.

Q.   Did the rain delay bother you at all? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Not really, no.   Obviously, we would have preferred to have gotten finished earlier, but no. 
Just sat in there and pretty much did nicely, then warmed up and good to go again.

Q.   You have a lot of birdies so far this week.   I guess that's a formula you need to keep tomorrow. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, I'm not sure how many I had today.   I'm hitting a lot of good shots and feel like I'm rolling the ball pretty well on the green. 
It's a good recipe to make birdies.   I've just got to cut out a few of the mistakes.

Q.   Five shots back, what do you think? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   You never know.   Sergio is playing pretty good.   If I can be right on my game tomorrow, roll a few good putts in, who knows?   I'd rather be a little bit closer.

Q.   Did you start earlier than you normally do on Saturday considering your position and a little bit disjointed with the rain delay?   Still you posted a decent number.   Are you happy with how you played? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   I played pretty well for the most part, hit a few loose shots.   That tends to happen, I guess. 
Can't hit every shot perfect, but happy with where I am.   I'd like to be a couple closer.

Q.   We've been talking for the last few weeks you've been playing very well and very confident in your game.   You got an up close and personal look at Sergio's game.   Where are you on the optimism meter that you can maybe catch him on Sunday? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   He's playing really well.   It's going to be tough.   He's rolling the ball really well and hitting it close.   So it's tough to beat that. 
It's a Sunday.   Feel like if I can do the right things and keep giving myself a lot of birdie chances and getting the putting going, anything can happen.   We'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT