WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2014
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It was a good day for you.   It's hard to follow up a 64 with another low one, but I thought 69, very respectable.   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, I was happy with the day.   Sort of a bit of a heart starter on the first day.   Couple of good shots in there, hit my 4 footer a little firm, and all of a sudden I've got 5 feet coming back.   
So it was a bit of a scare on the first, but I played pretty good after that.   I birdied the 2nd coming straight back.   Started hitting a few good shots.  
   
 Q.   I thought your iron play was really good.   The putter a bit balky, 29 putts compared to 24 in the opening round.   That happens here.   
MARC LEISHMAN:   I'll take 20‑something putts every day here.   It was patchy.   The 1st hole, obviously, that was not what I was after.   
But after that, holed a few good putts.   Had a good one on 9 as well.   Good one to keep the momentum going.  
   
 Q.   12 birdies the first two days.   When you have 12 birdies in 36 holes at Firestone, that's playing some pretty good golf.   
MARC LEISHMAN:   I feel like I'm playing well.   It is a tough course.   I guess the soft conditions are helping a little bit.   If you're not hitting good shots, you can make bogeys pretty quick, as I found out the other day.   
It was 12 birdies.   Hopefully, I can have another 12 and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Excited about the weekend?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Very excited.   Great to be around the lead going into the weekend of a big tournament like this.   Looking forward to getting out there and seeing what I can do.   
   
 Q.   Not as many birdies today, but still a great number.   How would you compare your day today to yesterday?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Probably not quite as good off the tee today.   Didn't hit as many fairways as I would think.   Still managed to make a few birdies and shoot under par.   
Greens are really quick this morning.   Had to be a little bit more careful.   It was a pretty good day.  
   
 Q.   I'm going to follow up on the golf course.   Not much wind at all this morning.   Seemed like conditions were prime for scoring.   Cumulatively as a group, we're not seeing a lot of low numbers out there.   How difficult is the golf course today?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   The pins were a little bit tougher today, but I think it's just the rough's a little bit wet.   It's not super long, but if you knock it on the fairway, it's hard to get it at the hole.   
I guess that's got a little bit to do with it.   Whether the greens were quicker today, catching a few people off guard.   It caught me off guard a couple of times.   I'm not sure.   
I'm sure there will be something good out there this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   You're coming in tied for 5th in The Open Championship and you're heading into the weekend in the mix.   How optimistic are you right now that you could maybe hold a trophy come Sunday?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, if I keep doing what I've been doing‑‑ obviously, depending on what other guys do, but there's no reason why not.   There's still a lot of golf to be played.   
It's only halfway there.   A lot can happen in 9 holes, let alone 36 holes.   But I'm confident in the way I'm hitting it and rolling it pretty well on the greens.   
So try and make 12 more birdies these next couple of days and match those first two days and see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT