THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2014
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (Inaudible.)MARC LEISHMAN: It was a good start.  I hit the ball probably as well as I have all year.  Gave myself a lot of chances and managed to hole a few putts.  Didn't hole all the putts, obviously, but, you know.Q. (Inaudible.)MARC LEISHMAN: I think I played on the greens, I felt like I was being fairly conservative, but still giving myself good birdie opportunities.  I had a lot of 15, 20-footers for birdie.  It's just important not to get into those bunkers, especially the fairway bunkers, which I managed to avoid all of those. And then the bunkers around the greens, not as tough as what Open venues are, but you want to be out of them.  You don't want to be putting from 20 feet and putting up and down for par.Q. (Inaudible.)MARC LEISHMAN: Definitely.  I actually said that to my caddie, Matty.  It was early in the round.  3, 4, 5, something like that, I said to Matty, I've really got to go at it today because if it gets really windy tomorrow afternoon, we might need a couple of shots up our sleeves. So, yeah, it was good to get off to the start I did.  And that was definitely in the back of my mind that I needed to take advantage of the early benign conditions.Q. (Inaudible.)MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, exactly.  I was hitting good putts.  And a lot of them were just short of the edge, but that happens.  If you get birdie putts from inside ten feet, that doesn't happen as much, but when you are on the edges from 20 feet you're hitting decent putts.  Obviously a lot of them go in. But, yeah, it's still good to have those chances and be hitting good putts.Q. (Inaudible.)MARC LEISHMAN: I think just not get so frustrated when I make bogeys.  This year at the Masters I got pretty frustrated and just let things get to me.  Because generally the courses are a lot tougher in majors, and you're going to have bogeys.  I think the more you play, the more you understand that, and just managing the frustration, that's it.  That's the difference.  I think my game is good enough to contend.  But just got to keep my head on.Q. (Inaudible.)MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I'm feeling comfortable.  I really like this golf course.  It's a solid course and I think any type of game can win.  Anyone can win.  I think anyone who plays well is going to have a chance, which is good.  I played I think three British amateurs and four Opens, so I like links golf and haven't done great in The Open.  I think St. Andrews I had a good first couple of rounds, but after that sort of slipped away and -- but, yeah, I'm looking to change that record this week.Q. (Inaudible.)MARC LEISHMAN: No, no, I played 18 Monday, it was a completely opposite wind.  And then I played on Tuesday and it was the other way, but just not as strong.Q. (Inaudible.)MARC LEISHMAN: I think I hit maybe three or four drivers in the practice rounds.  But I hit 3-iron off the first to lie up short of the bunkers and it got almost past them.  So it's firmed up.  You don't need to hit driver.  I hit it once and then lost my ball.Q. (Inaudible.)MARC LEISHMAN: Not really.  Around here I had a few pins actually tucked a little bit.  So I needed to play the woods the middle of the green a little bit.  You probably could have got aggressive, but when you start getting aggressive, that's when you start hitting bunkers and making bogeys. So, yeah, I feel like the strategy today was probably a good one for the rest of the week, just sort of try to give myself 15-to-20-footers for birdie and try to make a few.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT