THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2014
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MARC LEISHMAN: It is kind of funny, like it's the U.S. Open all over again.  I have to tell my story.  But I don't think I realized it will ever go away.  I mean, even if I had won The Open I'd be over here telling the same story again.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  MARC LEISHMAN: You know, I think it's a little different over here, because I think the fans are a little bit maybe, I don't want to say a little bit more reserved.  I'm sure there are some in the crowd, but I haven't been approached by anybody.  It's been pretty calm.  I see smiles and people saying "good luck."  But I still think that I'm the underdog out here.  I don't think people really know of me yet.  I still have a lot of good golf to play and to show that I'm still a good player.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  MARC LEISHMAN: Well, I'm just a golfer right now.  I'm just trying to play golf in a major championship, and I tried to prepare this week.  And it's not like I'm out here trying to do both jobs.  I'm trying to perform as a golfer and then I have the story behind it.  I get a lot of help from the media and I feel like sometimes the media loves me more than the actual fans because if I was a fan, I'd probably be out watching Tiger or Rickie or other players. I'm just a regular guy that has been through some serious stuff and earned a spot to play this year in this tournament.  I'm trying to make as much noise as I can.  My game, hopefully, will slowly improve during the week, fix some of the things that I did today on the golf course and move forward from there.  This is going to be a low-scoring day today.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I mean I'm here to play and compete and I don't see anybody in the field that doesn't feel the same way.  Everybody here wants to perform at a high level and hit the shots that the course deserves.  I just didn't play today the way you're supposed to play major championship golf.  And I did shoot 1-under, but I'm going to reassess what I need to do and hit more irons and 3-woods off the tees and get the ball in play and then score from there.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  MARC LEISHMAN: I enjoy it.  Don't get me wrong, the frustration is a lot of enjoyment there.  Think about, I'm frustrated about the bogeys I had today, but it's better than any day I had in the hospital.  I can enjoy the frustration, I know it sounds crazy.  But getting back and trying to game plan with my caddie and coach, my family is here from Norway.  I'm going to spend some time with them.  So you guys actually gave me a chance to vent a little bit here.  When I see them it will be happy smiles.  I'm feeling a lot better. We were on the clock for the back nine and I tried hard -- many times I played out of turn to try to get the group going.  It was a battle because when we got on the clock, somebody would lose their ball, and we were searching for golf balls.  I felt like I did a pretty good job to keep up.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  MARC LEISHMAN: Right.  Yeah.  This is my second time and I played the British Amateur in I think 2000.  This is a little different today.  This wasn't very linksy golf.  You could hit the ball high and soft and some of the approach shots -- I got caught in the middle of the round trying to play in front edges and made some bogeys where I felt you could play more aggressive and land the ball near the pin with a 7- or 8-iron. It was at Royal County Down, so it was either '99 -- was it '98?  '98.  Yeah.  Sorry.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT