QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
June 28, 2014
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Any inspiration you draw from coming into Washington, D.C.?MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it's awesome.  We were lucky enough to go to the White House on Tuesday night and a lot of military presence there, as well.  Living in Virginia Beach now, I'm used to seeing the fighter jets go around and a lot of military presence there. It's good to come here and play well.
Q. Obviously your game is right where you want it and you're consistently playing well all throughout the year.  What's been your mind-set for these next two days about maintaining your good play?MARC LEISHMAN: Drive it in the fairway.  If you're playing from the rough, it's a long, tough golf course.  There is some birdie chances out there, if you can keep it in the fairway, that's probably the big thing the next couple of days is to keep it on the fairways and give yourself chances.
Q. The future of Australian golf looks very, very bright right now.  Clearly you're playing some great golf and a lot of players of your age and now a new wave coming up with Goss and others.  Tell us about the strength of the program back home and what it's going to lead to the next few years?MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, they have changed things around a little bit the last few years.  Golf Australia now is helping the guys when they turned pro, as well.  Before you turned pro, and you were sort of on your own. Now they are really helping the guys out, which I think is a good thing.  That's when you need the most people is when you first get out there.  Oliver Goss is playing great this week.  The future for Australia is looking good.
Q. You are playing with a young man, a fellow Aussie, how will the conversation go and what is the comfort level?MARC LEISHMAN: Obviously it's something he probably hasn't experienced before.  Having said that, he did play well at the Masters in front of big crowds.  Completely different situation today and I don't see why he won't play well.  Expect him to do well.
Q. What are your expectations?MARC LEISHMAN: For me, I'm hitting the ball pretty well the first two days and looking for more of the same.  It's a tough golf course and if you're a little bit off, things can go the wrong way quickly.  So need to be right on the game.  If you miss fairways, you can be in a lot of trouble, probably more so than other golf course because it's so long and the rough is really thick out here.  If you're missing fairways, most of the time you're probably going to be laying up.  So I would say if you're on the fairway, you're halfway there.
 
 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT