TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2014
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round today.   You know, 3‑under 67, maybe left a few out there?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah.   Definitely left a couple out there, but for the most part it was a pretty good day.   I haven't struck the ball very well for most of the week, to be honest, and my short game has really saved me. 
Today wasn't much different.   I don't think I hit a green in regulation until the 5th, which is a par‑5.   I was 1‑under up until that point.   So yeah, my short game was really good.   It was a good week.   Would have liked to have contended, gave it a little bit of a shake there for a while, but just wasn't the day.

Q.   Marc, you're as aware as anyone of making a run on Sunday, what it takes.   What did you think coming in you were going to need to shoot today, and through that opening nine you were playing well.   Did you think you had it?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I thought I'd have to shoot probably 61 or 2.   And it never really looked like it all day, to be honest.   When I saw the leaders weren't really going anywhere, I thought I might have been able to do something on the back 9, but yeah, like I said, I didn't quite hit it as well as I would have liked.   But having said that, I managed my game really well, and my short game was good, which is what you need to do when you're not hitting it great.

Q.   What happened on 16?
MARC LEISHMAN:   16, I tried to hit it straight at the pin and just came out of it a little bit and missed it short right.   Just over cut it into that pin.   Was trying to hit a little fade and it was just a little bigger fade than I would have liked.   It buried in the bunker, and yeah, it was probably a good 4 in the end.

Q.   Is there a sense of frustration right now because they didn't really run away with it completely today?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Not really.   They've still got nine holes to go, I think.   So there's plenty of birdie opportunities on the back 9, and I'm still thinking 15, 16 under is going to win, which means I would have had to have shot 61, 62. 

Q.   One of those days. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah.   It's great to do it and I've done it before, but you can't leave yourself that much work to do on Sunday every week and expect to give yourself a good chance.   It's doable, but everything's gotta go your way.

Q.   What's the main reason this course is so conducive to those Sunday runs?   You've done it, so why is it so possible?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Because you can birdie every hole, but if you're not hitting good golf shots, you can also bogey every hole.   If you miss it in the wrong spot it's tough.
And I think that's why everyone loves coming here.   You can shoot really low numbers, but if your game's not on, you can make a lot of bogeys.   So I think that's signs of a really good golf course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT