HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2014
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Up and down final round you come away with a 68.   What do you take away? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Start the day off exactly how you wanted to, the first 10 holes, and then a few bad shots.   Missed on the side where you can't miss it on 11, hit it left.   Bad hit on 13 and 15, just a tough hole, so it was a great week.   In third at the moment.   Pretty disappointed.   I gave myself a real good chance and I just didn't pull the shots off. 

Q.   Why have you been so consistent?   Seems like every year you're third, top‑12, year in and year out you're comfortable. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   I'm not sure, maybe I like playing in the wind, a lot of the tee shots here just I like the look of.   I stand up and feel like I'm going to hit a good shot.   Not all golf courses are like that for me, so that's a good feeling.   A lot of left‑to‑right tee shots here.   So maybe that has something to do with it.   I can read the greens here pretty well, general.   Yeah, it's just a fun place to play, great crowd, great golf course and get looked after really well by the Byron Nelson people. 

Q.   I don't know if you peeked at the leaderboard to know where you're at, but when you were on 11, 12, 13, that stretch? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   I knew I had to get to 12, I figured that would be good enough, but having said that, I hit a few bad shots and wasn't in a position where I could afford any bogeys, maybe one but not three in five holes, or whatever I had.   It's disappointing but I knew where I was standing. 
I normally do.   I just didn't pull the shots off. 

Q.   Marc, can you go through an overview of your week, please? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   It was a good week.   Played three and a half ‑‑ or had three and a half good days.   The back nine today wasn't exactly what I wanted.   Hit a couple of bad shots that really 
weren't that hard a shots.   It cost me a bogey and I probably should have been making birdies on the holes that I bogeyed.   So that was pretty disappointing, but having said that, I'll probably still finish in the Top‑5 and it's better than the last few months.   I haven't made it that far up in the finals in the last few months, so it's good to get back in the hunt and I would like to make a habit of it over the next few weeks. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Marc.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT