MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Could you explain what went on?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Obviously got off to a good start.   And actually hit quite a few good shots throughout the day, just the wind caught me on a lot of holes.   
I made a few little mistakes here on the greens.   It cost me a double bogey.   Yeah, it's that type of course when it's calm, but when there's a wind like this it's really tough, as I said, and it proved it today.  
   
 Q.   Did you look at the leaderboard after any stage after the first three?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, but, as I said, it can jump up and grab you at any time.   I learned that last year, and learned it this year, as well.   I got caught on almost every hole with the wind.   
I hit a really good shot into 7 and missed the green.   Then I hit a good shot into 9 and it was long.   And then 10 and then at 12.   So just hopefully it will be just good enough to make it into the weekend, who knows.   
   
 Q.   Can you pinpoint one moment where it might have changed, was it the bunker shot on 4?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, that was unlucky.   It's not the first time I bogeyed that hole.   That's probably a par for me on that hole.  
And then maybe the second shot on 7 was disappointing.   I thought it was going to land right next to the hole and it landed five yards short of the green.  
And then on 9 I hit a pretty good shot in there, as well.   And it just blew straight off the back of the green, and before where it was was not good at all.   It started off good, and then after that it went from bad to worse.  
   
 Q.   Did you think it was just out of your hands?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   No, I mean I never gave up.   You never know, I could have birdied the last three holes, four holes and got right back to even par and been right in it.   Obviously I didn't do that.   I shot 41 on the back nine.   I'm not a person to give up.  
   
 Q.   When you went to 4 tee there was a big swell of people sort of coming off the Phil group and it was really obvious that there was a big group coming towards you.   Did you feel that you were at the Masters right there?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Maybe a little bit, but I don't think that had anything to do with it.   Actually didn't hit a bad shot there, either.   That bunker shot was an inch shorter and might have gone in the hole.   No, I just didn't play as good as probably I could have.   Obviously didn't play as good as I could have.   Got caught a few times with the wind.   It's notorious for that.  
   
 Q.   It doesn't sound like you necessarily hit a shot that you were unhappy with, per se, but you would like to go back and rehit some.   Seems like you hit the shots you wanted to hit, it was just the conditions caught you?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, the conditions caught me.   I would like to hit the shots again, maybe hit a different club if I knew the wind was where it was then.   But it's probably going to be in a different direction again.   So, there wasn't a shot that‑‑ probably the bunker shot on 12.   The first bunker shot caught quite a bit thin and made double.   It was tough, tough out there.   
   
 Q.   I know you don't have a lot of history here, but you have enough.   Have you seen this golf course play tougher than it's played today?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   No, this is as tough as I've seen it.   Saturday last year it was firm and fast, but there was no wind.   It's just‑‑ I think the wind around here is just brutal because one minute it will be behind you and the next minute it's into you.   And then there's none.   And it's just hard to hit shots when you don't know where the wind is.   It's hard to commit to it.   You have to at some stage.   So that's the hardest thing about it.   
   
 Q.   Given that it's tough out there, if you do sneak into the weekend, will you play your heart out, because you have nothing to lose?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, might as well.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, pretty much.   Yeah, pretty much.   It's not like I'm probably too far back to win it.   Bubba finished 8‑under?   12 back.   Unless you had a really low one.   Which I'm playing well enough to do.  
   
 Q.   If you don't, how would you assess the week?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Crap, pretty much.   Although yesterday was a good day, the first few holes, and then after that‑‑ obviously disappointing to finish the way I did.   We'll see.   Hopefully the wind stays like it is.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT