SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 10, 2014
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PHIL STAMBAUGH:   We're joined this afternoon in the interview room by Marc Leishman, who shot a 6‑under 64 this morning.   Marc, I noticed you played eight holes during the middle of the round in 6‑under par with an eagle at the 9th.   Take us through your day.   You're one off the lead right now.   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, it was a good day.   I played reasonably well, probably didn't hit as many fairways as I would have liked to.   But as long as you're missing it in the right spot around here, it's playable.   
Had the putter working really well.   Just had the one three‑putt on No.6, so that was probably the only blemish on the card for the day, and managed to hole a few good birdie putts.   But it helped me with that good stretch, like you said, from 7 until 11.   It was, yeah, a good day.   
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Go through the highlights in a little more detail.   Did you have any long putts, and tell us about the eagle.   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, I had a‑‑ well, a good drive on 9 to start with, the eagle.   Hit a good tee shot on 9.   Had 5‑iron in and hit a really nice shot to about 12 feet and rolled in a bit of a tricky downhiller.   Could have gone either way, and managed to hole that.  
Hit it close on 10, holed about a 25‑footer on 11, and then on 14 holed probably a 20‑footer down the hill.   They're the sort of things that really turn an average round into a good one or a good one into a great one.   It was nice to shoot 6‑under and get myself right in it.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a reasonable birdie chance at 18 today?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, I was in the rough just short of the green, chipped it up to about 15 feet, and the putt never had a chance.   Hit a good putt on 17 and just missed it, burned the edge.   I had some chances, some I made, some I didn't, but all in all it was a really good day.  
   
 Q.   You tied for 9th last year at Waialae.   Anything about the course that suits you?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   I like how firm it is.   You've got to judge how far the ball is going to run.   It's always windy, as well.   I grew up in the wind and enjoy playing in the wind.   Those things along with the course, as well, it's not a course that you can really overpower.   You have to think your way around.   I think if you play well you can score well, and if you're not playing good, there's not big numbers out there.   I like that about it.   
   
 Q.   You've never really played bad here.   Is that true anywhere else you've gone on a consistent basis?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   There's a few places that I've generally played well at.   Torrey Pines, I mean, I missed the cut there last year but I generally play pretty well there.  
   
 Q.   It's a completely different style, isn't it?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   It's completely different.   It's generally different grasses.   It's really soft there.   There's certain things about certain courses that can fit your eye and some courses where I've never played well at, as well.   You've got to really make the most of these ones, and hopefully I can do that this week.   
   
 Q.   Having played here in the past, how would you gauge the wind?   It's been relatively light this week so far, yeah?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   It has, yeah.   It's been pretty light and in a fairly friendly direction.   On a lot of the holes it's pushing it away from the trouble, which I like that.   It makes a lot of the tough tee shots not so tough, and there's not really any holes where the direction of the wind has made them a lot more difficult.   
If it was to switch, it would change things a bit, or strengthen, as well.   But yeah, it's been fairly moderate I'd say.  
   
 Q.   It's supposed to switch; is that a concern?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Not really.   I mean, it's going to switch for everyone, so it's not just me.   Like I said, everyone has got to play the same course, and hopefully the wind will be fairly similar for everyone.   
   
 Q.   You grew up playing in wind.   Is this pretty similar to courses you played growing up in Australia?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Not really.   I mean, the bunkers are probably the most‑‑ they're fairly deep.   Similar sand, that's probably the extent of it.   Different grass.   The course I grew up on was really hilly.   This doesn't have a hill on it.   Yeah, probably the bunkers and how firm it is.   In the Australia the courses tend to be quite hard under foot, and this usually is, as well.   I enjoy playing that type of golf.   
PHIL STAMBAUGH:   Marc, continued good luck.   Thanks for joining us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT