THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 6, 2013
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your Aussie fans are chanting in the background; emphatic win.   
MARC LEISHMAN:   That was huge.   I didn't hit it in a great position off the tee.   Chip came out a little harder than I thought it might have, but I've been wanting that putt for all week.   Just an opportunity to keep us in it or win it, and to win it ‑‑ to win the match was huge and keep us in it.  
   
 Q.   You talk about keeping us in it; tell me about your experience as a Presidents Cup rookie.   
MARC LEISHMAN:   It's been awesome.   It's been a really long week with all the rain delays, but being back in this team environment, which I haven't been in for seven or eight years since I've turned pro, he's awesome and just especially to have a chance like that on the last and make it was huge.   Hopefully the boys behind can pull off a miracle at Muirfield, I guess, that would be good.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about what a strenuous week this has been and at what point do you switch over your thoughts to this week?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Well, yes, after we recover tomorrow I guess.   Like I said, it has been a huge week, long week, a lot of rain delays.   But once I get there to San Jose, I'll be ready to go there.   Coming off some pretty good form this week.   So I'm really excited about next week actually to start the season.   
   
 Q.   And just what your thoughts are on the International Team as a whole this week; is there anybody that's really surprised you, that's stood out in your mind?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   I mean, all the guys, some of the guys I didn't really know before, the South African guys, they are just all awesome people to be around.   Obviously Scotty and Jason are born leaders I think; and Ernie, to be around him was huge for me.   I've never had a whole lot to do with him, and sort of idolized him growing up.   
So it's just cool to spend time off the golf course with all the guys.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT