THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 5, 2013
Angel Cabrera
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How far‑‑  
MARC LEISHMAN:   191, 7‑iron.   
   
 Q.   You had a couple close calls, the bunker shot at 14.   
MARC LEISHMAN:   We did, we got it done.   Well, just great to get a win under the belt for the two of us.   We played reasonably well.   I think Sneds and Webb probably didn't play their best, but we got it done and that's what matters.   Got a point.   
   
 Q.   15?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   That was a very big putt.   That was an important putt, and glad I made it.   
   
 Q.   Anxious over your second shot into 15, did you know it was going to hang up?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   I thought it was going to be fine.   I was thinking right center of the green was pretty good.   Left was no chance.   So was making sure I didn't hit it left and it's a pretty easy chip from where I left Angel.   He hit a good chip.   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I thought it was really important for him to make his drive on 15, so I thought it was important to go for it, and he made a really good putt.   His shot into 16 was very important.   
   
 Q.   Purposely play the chip long to come back off the hill?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Could you see the hole on 14 on the restart?   It was dark.   
ANGEL CABRERA:   Better if you see nothing.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   Nip and tuck all day, to hit the shot on 17, but both days, you played solid, even though the score wasn't there, you were in it all day long.   
MARC LEISHMAN:   We both hit some good shots and there towards the end made a couple of key putts when we needed to on 12 and on 15.   
So you know, to hit that shot on 17 and not have to putt it was awesome for both of us and to get the win was really satisfying.   We needed that for the team and for our own confidence, as well.   
   
 Q.   How hard is it to really get rhythm and shoot a score when alternate‑shot‑‑ it's hard to get a rhythm when you are only hitting every other, is it not?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   It is.   You can go a good half an hour without hitting a shot.   I didn't hit a putt until the fourth this morning, or yesterday.   So that can be tough.   But you've just got to I guess hit a couple of putts when you get a chance after play is finished and try and stay in rhythm somehow.   
FastScripts by ASAP Sports ...  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT