THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 2, 2013
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Doesn't get much bigger than taking on Tiger. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, it's going to be an exciting day for me, for both of us.   Obviously me and Angel are excited about the day.   It's definitely going to be a tough match.   We are both playing reasonably well and I think we have got a good chance. 

Q.   How have you felt out there? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   It's been good.   We played alternate‑shot yesterday and then just played our own ball today.   Went out and sat next to each other at dinner last night and had a good chat.   You know, it's been great to spend a bit of time with him.   We're both‑‑ he's really enthusiastic and excited about the week, as we all are.   So, you know, we are looking forward to getting into it tomorrow and hopefully getting a point on the board first up. 

Q.   You played with Tiger last round at Memorial? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   I did. 

Q.   Do you feel more at ease these days, you've played with him a couple times now, a bit easier to deal with everything that comes with him? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, played with him a couple of times.   I think this week, no matter who we're playing against, it's going to be a big crowd.   It's not as different as what I thought it is, if you turn up on Sunday morning at the Memorial like I did early this year, normally there would be about 20 people watching where we were, and all of a sudden it's five‑deep around the entire hole. 
I was expecting big crowds this week, and we're certainly going to get them.   But you know, it's not going to be unexpected. 

Q.   What's the toughest part about playing with Tiger?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I think it's harder playing in front of him or behind him, just because there's so much movement in the crowd.   They are all either trying to get to the hole to see him, or if you're behind him, he's there or they are all leaving.   When you're playing with him, it's not as bad, because there's so many people, it's sort of like a constant noise and it's not like‑‑ it's not too bad.   But tomorrow, I think the crowds are going to be that big that it's‑‑ obviously you're playing Tiger Woods, and Matt Kuchar, as well.   But it's a big day for us, but I think definitely if we play well, we've got a good chance of winning. 

Q.   Getting points‑‑ a cycle cloth Cal blow? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Maybe, if it was worth more than one on the scoreboard, but you have to win first, and we'll definitely be giving it our best.   Hopefully we can hit a lot of good shots, hole some putts, and get a point on the board in the early rounds. 

Q.   Does being an underdog help, that you can free‑wheel it a little bit? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   A little bit, yeah.   There's still pressure on us, because obviously the internationals have wouldn't for quite a few years.   But having said that, probably no one is expecting us to win either.   We feel like we've got a really good chance if we can play well, and there's no reason why we can't.   We are all just people trying to get a ball into a hole, so we'll start even on the first tee and go from there. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, Scotty's really determined.   He has not been on a winning side and Ernie has been vocal, as well; Angel, too.   All the experienced guys are really motivated and determined to win.   I think they are getting sick of being on the wrong end of this competition.   They are excited, all the new guys including myself are really excited and looking forward to getting into it and just hopefully playing good golf and making it a really good tournament. 

Q.   Give us an example of Cabrera, we never hear about him?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, through his interpreter, he's just talking to the team, just saying he's got a good feeling about the week and he's excited about it.     He feels like our team is in pretty good form.   I guess he's just got a good vibe this week.   He seems like he's really excited, which you don't see that from him a whole lot I guess. 

Q.   Seems like it's been pretty well laid out who is going to play well with who‑‑
MARC LEISHMAN:   I don't think that had anything to do with pairings.   I think some of the younger guys like myself wanted to be‑‑ well, Nick thought it would be good if we all were an experienced guy, like Branden with Ernie‑‑

Q.   Playing in the match‑‑
MARC LEISHMAN:   I'm not sure.   I guess maybe Nick wanted a couple of‑‑ I didn't have a preference personally.   I guess Nick wanted guys that are in good form to be out early and try to get some points on the board.   Hopefully they can do that for us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT