DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 2, 2013
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You find your way into BMW and accomplishing that goal, which I'm sure was one of them when you came here, how proud are you when you walk away from here?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, considering the way I played, except for yesterday, it was pretty good.   You need to get to the BMW, which is what you need to do.   Anything can happen there, as I showed a few years ago.   We got 67 down in there and got to Atlanta.   
So I should be in better position than that.   Hopefully I'll have a good week at BMW.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel what was going on around you as far as your position in the FedExCup standings, were you monitoring the leaderboard?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Not really.   I knew where I was.   I knew I was slipping backwards, with a few too many pars.   But when we had that rain delay I sort of had a bit of a look and saw I was still projected about a hundred points, so I knew where I needed to be, which was about two or three shots.   I had a bit of breathing room.   I wasn't looking at going backwards.   I was looking at trying to making a few birdies and trying to get into the top 10.   Couldn't quite do it.   But still a pretty good week.   
   
 Q.   Any chance to talk to Nick Price?   What are the next couple of weeks going to be like for you?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yes, I spoke to Nick before.   I guess it will be an anxious wait.   It would be nice to be in Muirfield Village in early October, I guess that's up to him now.   Probably would have loved to play a little bit better this week, to put my name up there a little bit more.   But who knows, I have to wait and see.   
   
 Q.   Just talk about the day, how you finished?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Just under par for the fourth straight day.   Didn't play my best golf today, but scratched it around and got to the BMW.   Considering the way I hit it it was a pretty good week.   
   
 Q.   Anything you can work on in the off week?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, I need to drive it better.   Didn't drive it very well at all this week.   Yesterday I hit the ball well, with every club, and for the rest of the week I tried to hit fairways.   I'll do a little bit of work on that in the next few days and be ready for Chicago.  
   
 Q.   The course is wet.   Did you take advantage of that?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   It wasn't as easy as what it was yesterday, I don't think.   But there were still birdies out there.   The greens were good, nice and soft.   There wasn't much wind.   It was scorable.   The pins were a little bit tougher and it was playing a little bit longer, but there was still a good score out there.   
   
 Q.   How much were you looking at the projections?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   I actually didn't see any projections when I looked at the boards.   I actually looked at the boards quite a bit.   I had a look when we had the rain delay.   I saw I was still inside‑‑ still about 60th, and about a hundred points.   So I knew where I needed to be.   I knew I had a little bit of breathing room, but I didn't want to go backwards, obviously, I wanted to try to make some birdies ask try to give myself a little bit less work.   But two weeks time.  
   
 Q.   Did you talk at all with the three of you being in that kind of position?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   We didn't actually talk about it at all.   They were pretty high up in this tournament.   They were sort of locked up so we didn't really speak about getting to next week.   I guess we were thinking about this week, and if we took care of this week we wouldn't have to worry about it.   
   
 Q.   Have you got any sense of what might happen if you talk to Nick?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   I spoke to him before, actually.   He said he'd call me tomorrow and let me know either way.   I guess I'll have to wait for that phone call and see what happens.   Hopefully I've done enough.   But it would have been nice to not have to worry about one of the captain's picks.   But I'll have to try and rely on one of them now and hopefully I can get one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT