ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 6, 2020
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  69 today. How pleased are you with the performance?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, really happy. It was tough out there again. Got off to a really good start the first 8 holes and then kind of hung on after that. So yeah, it's tough. It's good. I'm really enjoying it. It's nice playing when par's a good score.   
 Q.  You've got a lot of responsibility this week. What does it mean to you to be able to say you're the host for a great tournament in honor of a great golfer?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it's a huge honor. To even be thought of for a role like that is pretty special. Then to get, for them to choose me to do that, it's a massive honor. Of all the things you do, you think of, if you hadn't had a great day, do you go sign or not go sign? He would have done it, so you do it. And that's just, little things like that, that kind of, I guess, that's why you pick certain role models and he was certainly one.   
 Q.  What did winning his tournament mean in your career in 2017?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it was huge. I hadn't won for a long time. I mean, such a big event too. It was definitely right up there. It was a big win and I would love to get another one.   
 Q.  Only two rounds in the 60s in the morning wave, but you and Sungjae in the same group and it wasn't easy out there, was it, today?  
MARC LEISHMAN: It really wasn't. Yesterday afternoon wasn't easy. I thought I played really, really well for 1-under. And then to shoot in the 60s today was, I was really happy with that. So good signs for the weekend. Hoping I can continue to play like I am, keep putting like I am. And the course is getting tough, so that's a plus as well. I love playing a tough golf course.   
 Q.  What was tougher, the wind, because I think about 9 where it just, it looked like you hit a good shot it just went to the back, or the firmness of the greens today?  
MARC LEISHMAN: A combination of both. Yeah, it's just so good when you've got to hit a good shot to the right part of the green to even sometimes get it on the green. Yeah, it's almost major-like conditions out there, which is great. I enjoy playing in these conditions and it certainly is very tough out there. But the greens being firm makes the wind a little bit more of a factor.   
 Q.  Final thing: As a past champion you're an ambassador for the tournament this year. What does that mean to you to be an ambassador for the Arnold Palmer Invitational?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it's amazing. It's a huge honor. Just to be thought of for something like that is a big honor and to get selected is bigger, so I hope I can do him proud. And it would be nice to be up there at the trophy ceremony collecting a trophy, not just an as ambassador. So it would be nice to do both.   
 Q.  You must be happy to shoot a round in the 60s in the second round in tougher conditions. Talk about that round a little bit today.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, really tough conditions. Got off to a good start. I think I was 3-under after -- 3- or 4-under after eight holes. So it's pretty tough. It's tough out there. Normally you're trying to, if you're 4-under through 8 you're trying to go shoot 6- or 8-under. And of course you want to do that, but we were all trying to hold on, to be honest. There's a lot of trouble out there and the course is not getting any easier.   
 Q.  What happened with the rules official on the greenside bunker there?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Oh, just the ball went out of shape, so, yeah, I had to make sure I was good to go, which it wasn't, but I could change it out. So, yeah, not a huge issue there.   
 Q.  This feels like major-like conditions. How much does that help with THE PLAYERS and Masters coming up?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, these greens are very Augusta-like. I think to -- I hate to call this another tune-up because it's really not. We're all trying to win this event as much as any other event. But these greens are quick, firm, the rough's long. It's hard. You're probably not going to be able to scramble and get it done. So, yeah, it's hard, and I enjoy tough golf courses so I'm enjoying it out there.   
 Q.  How did the different wind direction today change the conditions?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, there was a few holes that played very different. 17, 18, I mean I think I hit, I think I hit 5-iron into 17, probably driver, 5-iron into 18. It's playing hard. So those holes generally you're hitting shorter clubs into, they're kind of scorable. Today they're very much not scorable. So, yeah, it change as few of the holes. A few tougher tee shots. But then it makes holes like 16 a little easier, so I guess give and take with the direction.   
 Q.  When were you named ambassador to the tournament and how special was that?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Late last year I found out, I'm not sure when they officially named it, but they did ask me late last year and of course I was going to say yes, so that's a, a big honor to have that responsibility and an honor really just to be put in the conversation to be an ambassador. So to be selected is pretty awesome.   
 Q.  (Question about Arnold Palmer.)  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I'm not sure. Yeah, it's an honor and he was a special man. It's nice to be doing it.   
 Q.  How much of a boost is it when everyone in the group is playing well?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I mean, it's nice when you can get dragged along by your playing partners. It works both ways, sometimes you'll get in a group where guys are all struggling and that's hard work. It's nice when it worked like it did today. You're seeing some putts going in, you know the birdies are there, so, yeah, it's great when you can get into a hot group and all drag each other along.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your game heading into the weekend?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I feel good. I feel like I'm driving it pretty well, the putter feels great. I love putting on fast greens and these are certainly quick. I enjoy playing in the wind, so if it can stay like this I'm excited. But there's a lot of work to do, only two rounds in, need to continue to play well, continue to make putts and hopefully I can give myself a few more birdie chances.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT