RBC HERITAGE
April 18, 2013
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round.   You know you're right there in the mix.   Seems like a lot of golfers right there. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   It was a good day.   It was good to back up last week with another good round today, bogey‑free, which haven't had too many of those this year.   It was a solid day. 

Q.   How is the course playing, what did it look like here on day 1?
MARC LEISHMAN:   The course is really good.   The greens are running well.   There's a little bit of wind, but not too much.   It looks like it's going to get up this afternoon.   But the course is great as always.

Q.   Did you guys kind of feed off of each other?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, we did.   I don't think we had a bogey in the group.   That is definitely not good when a couple of guys start down the wrong way; it's easy to do that.   And it works the same when everyone is playing well.

Q.   There were some good things you took from last week?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I'm hitting the ball well.   Hopefully I can continue that for the rest of the week.   I'm feeling really comfortable over the putter as well.   It helps when you can roll a few putts in.

Q.   Is there anything in particular that's been working or clicked for you?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I've been working pretty hard on all my game.   But when you can hole a few 15, 20‑footers for birdie in a round, you can attack flags when you've got good numbers.   And be confident that if you do miss a green, that you're going to get up and down.

Q.   Have you found anything in either your game or psyche in the last few weeks that's propelled this?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I've been working hard on both, and leading up to the Masters the results hadn't really been there.   It had been pretty close.   I'd just been missing one part of my game each week, and it was a different part each week.
I knew it was close, but it's just a matter of putting it together and having the confidence to go out on the course and playing well.   I've been hitting the ball well on the range all year, but haven't been taking it to the golf course.   I finally started playing good on the course.

Q.   Did you feel worn out at all after Sunday night?   And if you did, how did you get past that in these couple of days?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I did.   I felt very tired.   Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, the energy was really low and legs felt heavy.   But I actually went in the ocean yesterday and did a bit of stretching.   The legs feel a little bit better, feel refreshed.   Had a pretty easy couple of days early in the week.   I feel back to normal today.

Q.   Did you think you'd be able to keep this going or did you think maybe there would be a natural letdown after the week you had?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I'm working hard to not have that letdown.   I've got two weeks off after this week.   I'm planning on being in contention all week, and then really enjoying my two weeks off. 

Q.   I heard Brad Faxon make the analogy that playing with another Aussie is sometimes like NASCAR cars drafting off of each other.   While that's interesting, is there any truth to that?   You're paired with countryman Jason, is there something to that? 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Well, maybe.   Maybe not.   It's just, I guess, some personality things that we can talk about some stuff from home or just don't have to think about what we say.   A lot of the words we use in Australia are different to what you use over here.   I can say some stuff that I said to Jason today, I could say to you guys and you wouldn't know what I said.   It's English.   But Jason and I have been paired together in the past.

Q.   Scotty, as well?
MARC LEISHMAN:   We've played maybe a handful of times.   But it's just good having the‑‑ Australians have very interesting terminology.

Q.   Fun having the country in the spotlight, for Scotty, obviously, but then you and Jason playing as well as you did last week?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, it's awesome.   There was a lot of interest back home with the Masters.   Obviously with Scotty winning, but with a few of us having a chance to win.   It's exciting for the future of Australian golf.   Hopefully we can all keep playing well and keep the excitement levels up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT