MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2013
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just your general thoughts on your round today.   
MARC LEISHMAN:   It was a good day.   Course was, there was no wind, but the course firmed up a lot.   The greens got really quick.   I think 72 is a pretty good score.   It's not an awesome score by any means, but I got a really good chance tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Did it play quite differently from yesterday?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, they were a lot faster and a lot firmer.   I'm guessing that it's going to be more of the same tomorrow.   So I'm really looking forward to it.   I heard that's what Augusta's all about and I'm looking forward to getting out there tomorrow and seeing what it's all about.   
   
 Q.   You're only two back at this point, but do you have a thought process of what you do now after leaving here now and getting ready for tomorrow anything special?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   No, I think my wife's cooking up a storm tonight, cooking up dinner, and go home, see her, play with my little boy, Harvey, and spend time that way.   But nothing different.   
   
 Q.   What's on the menu?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Chicken crescent rolls I think she's cooking.   One of my favorite.   Something easy.   
   
 Q.   Adam Scott just said the Aussies are tired of hearing about when is one of them going to win this tournament.   Is that going to happen tomorrow?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   I hope so.   It's our best chance yet.   I mean there's ‑‑ it hasn't happened before, so there's three of us near the lead.   I'm not sure how Senden is doing, but no one's won it yet, so this is our best chance.   
   
 Q.   Did it have the feeling out there of Saturday at the Masters?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   It did, yeah.   It's a bit different on the weekend than what the, than what it is on Thursday, Friday.   Fans were a little bit more vocal and it was a lot of fun.   A lot of fun.   
   
 Q.   What do you take away from today to apply to tomorrow?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Learned more about the course today.   A few more rounds under my belt now.   I think every round here you learn something.   I learned a lot again today.   
So I hit the ball well, I just got to hole the putts tomorrow.   I missed a few really makeable putts and if they go in then I'm 8‑ or 9‑under.   But I also holed a couple of good par putts as well, so I'm well and truly in it.   I need a low one tomorrow, no knows.   Maybe we'll take that Aussie curse off.   
   
 Q.   You spent some time on the web.com TOUR, you won on the PGA TOUR, how would you describe the process of getting from here to having a chance to win a Major?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   It's just been a steady progression.   I started on the, my first TOUR card I had was Australian TOUR and played on the secondary TOUR there.   Then I progressed up to the main TOUR in Australia.   I played in Korea.   I tried Mondays at the web.com.   Played the web.com, won there.   Got to the main TOUR.   But it's just a slow progression, but taking all the right steps.   
   
 Q.   And what experiences can you take from those, from your past, and apply tonight and tomorrow with a chance to win an imagine?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Well playing, not on the developmental tours exactly, but not the PGA TOUR straight up, you sort of learn how to deal with the way or learn how to win a golf tournament.   And I feel like I've done that a few times.   I think I won seven or eight times as a pro now.   Slept on the lead maybe four, close to the lead a few.   
So I've sort of done it before.   Obviously it's different in the Masters, but I feel pretty comfortable at it, to be honest.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
MARC LEISHMAN:   No, I actually feel quite comfortable out there.   I was quite nervous on the first tee on Thursday, a little bit yesterday, not too bad today.   So as I say, I feel really comfortable and it helps when you're hitting the shots that you want to hit and rolling the ball pretty well.   
So I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You said you learned a little bit more today.   Anything specific you can cite that maybe helps you tomorrow that you learned today or learned last couple days?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   It was good teeing off really late today, because you see some of the greens are really baked and how fast they can get.   I hit it above the hole on 4 today and I mean I missed it, I tried to hit the putt about three inches and it was about an 8‑footer and it went about six foot past.   And it's just like, yeah, this is what I thought it would be like.   
So you just got to not be above the hole because you've got no chance of stopping it.   It just won't stop.   
   
 Q.   You learned the afternoon green speed, it sounds like.   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, exactly.   I learned that and had some experience on it today.   I learned a lot.   I learned a lot with not doing anything bad, which was good.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT