MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, this afternoon we welcome Marc Leishman who is making his second Masters appearance.   Today he scored two birdies in his second round, finished today with a 73 and had a wonderful up‑and‑down on 16 for a par.   
Like to open it up to questions.   
   
 Q.   This didn't look like one of the easier days I've ever seen at the Masters.   Was it the pin placements or the wind being in a different direction or was it a little bit of both?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   It was definitely both.   It was in a different direction and it was stronger than it was yesterday, as well.   
I was saying out there, it's blowing in a direction where it makes the two par 5s on the back nine, it makes them pretty tough.   It was blowing hard at the left on 13 where you have to hit a big hook around the corner.   
And 15, what's generally reasonably reachable, it's blowing straight in.   So probably only the longer hitters can get there today and it made, I guess you would call them the birdie holes on the back nine and not really legitimate‑‑ well, they are birdie chances, but they were still pretty tough holes.   
   
 Q.   You must be pretty proud and chuffed to yourself obviously leading the first day of coming here, and right now you still are; I mean, that's a big effort on your part given the stage and the circumstance?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, I was very happy, especially with the way I started.   Had a better early start today like with the three holes and then had a couple bogeys and bounced back with two straight birdies to get it straight back to even, which was really pleasing.   
Then the back nine was playing really tough, so to grind it out and only shoot 1‑over around there when I missed a couple of greens in places where you don't want to miss them, left on 16, short on 14; it was good to get out of there relatively unscathed.  
   
 Q.   How much did you get yourself in and out of that moment like you talked about yesterday?   You had to be looking at leaderboards, your name on a Masters leaderboard.   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Obviously I was looking at all of them (laughing), but I do that at every tournament.   So it's nothing different.   
I've tried to not do that a couple of tournaments and it just has not worked for me.   I like to know where I am, what the situation is, whether I'm ahead, behind, on the cut line, whatever.   So I just like to know where I am and it's pretty cool to see your name up at the top of there.   
   
 Q.   Your one victory, you came from one behind.   How have you done in the past when you've been in situations like this?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   I think I've won seven times total as a pro, seven or eight, and I've won probably four of them by, I think, seven or more.   Not saying that's going to happen this week (laughter).   I hope it does.   
Yeah, I've done all right.   It's a different situation obviously, but, you know, I've done all right.   I've done it both ways.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned looking at the leaderboards.   How is it different seeing the names, Couples, Woods, Cabrera, day, Furyk, Snedeker, Scott, Dufner, as opposed to other names on the leaderboard that you've competed against?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, it's really good.   To be up there with those guys that you mentioned, is really cool.   But, you know, we are competing against each other, and that's what I've probably learned over the last few years; that those guys, they are great players but I've got to compete against them and try to beat them.   I can't put them on a pedestal.   I think I've gotten a little bit better at that, but it's probably going to be hard the next two days, you know, where we are.   
But I've been working hard on all that, the mental part of the game, and hopefully it will keep me in good stead for the weekend.  
   
 Q.   So given the conditions, is it one of the better 73s you've had?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   For sure.   Especially after going low yesterday, sometimes if you have a low first round, it's hard to back it up.   
And again, looking back at last time I was here, it was tough on Friday, as well, and I let it get away from me and ended up missing the cut.   So I think I learned from that.   Yeah, I've had a couple of bogeys early, but it's all right, everyone's going to be having bogeys, so I did learn from that.  
   
 Q.   What are some of the bigger pressure moments you've had in your career that you've come through, and how does this compare being in the spot you're in right now?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   I mean, this is different.   This is bigger than anything I've probably done before.   With the win at the Travelers, I was in the clubhouse pretty early, so I wouldn't say there was much pressure there.   I knew where I was in the situation, so there was pressure but it was different.   I had to post a score.   
You know, last year at the Byron Nelson, I had a chance to win and didn't quite pull it off.   I had a few chances to win at other TOUR events, and so I've got a little bit of experience, but not on this stage.   So hopefully I can deal with it pretty well and play good golf.   
   
 Q.   What is the most pressure‑packed round you've had?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Most pressure‑packed round?   
   
 Q.   I think I heard you had to beat your dad for a title?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, I didn't know what pressure was when I was 13 (laughing).  
   
 Q.   What tournament was it?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   That was the club championships at the Warrnambool golf course where I grew up.   I'd say probably either the last round in Bay Hill in 2011 or the last round at Torrey Pines in 2010, and last year at the Byron Nelson.   But which one, I don't know; I'll say the Byron Nelson, just because that's the most recent.   
   
 Q.   What was the name of that club again, please?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Warrnambool.   
   
 Q.   Thank you.   
MARC LEISHMAN:   No worries.   
   
 Q.   You say you've been working really hard; what have you been working really hard on?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   Just not getting ahead of myself on the golf course, just conserving energy when I need to conserve energy; not getting frustrated at myself unnecessarily.   
Just mentally getting better.   I do get a little bit angry on the golf course occasionally, and trying to improve that because it does waste a lot of energy.  
   
 Q.   There was a lot of talk about Tiger coming into this tournament, having won three times already coming in here.   If you are looking at leaderboards, when you see his name sort of pop up there, do you have a thought that comes to mind?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Opportunity I guess.   Especially when I'm at the top, as well.   That's a good chance to prove myself, I guess.   
He's the best player in the world at the moment, and obviously I'd have to play good to beat him.   But I think it's doable.   He'll probably get annoyed now and shoot 62 tomorrow (laughter).  
   
 Q.   I don't know if you've had a chance to look at the leaderboard, but four Aussies in the top eight?  
MARC LEISHMAN:   I saw Jason and Senden are up there on the ones out on the course.   I didn't know Scotty was doing well.   That's good, because I think there's only four of us in this week.   Yeah, pretty impressive so far.   Hopefully it's like that Sunday night.   
   
 Q.   That's the thing about it, it was our lowest representation since 2002 with only four, but I guess only one can win; right?   
MARC LEISHMAN:   Exactly, yeah.   So you know, who knows, hopefully one of us can knock it off.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much and good luck in your preparations for tomorrow.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT