TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2012
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Marc, congratulations.   What a superb round of golf for you. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   It was a great day.   I said to Mattie this morning that I probably had to get to 15 to have a chance.   Couldn't quite get there, but 14 is not bad.   Gave myself a chance anyway.

Q.   Do you think you have a chance at 14?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I mean I have a chance.   You've always got a chance, you know.   But yeah, I'm not going to go anywhere.   Put it that way.

Q.   I thought you had beautiful touch.   That chip you hit on the 13th was absolutely perfect. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, that was a tough one.   I could have easily hit that down the hill and in the water.   That was definitely a good one to keep the momentum going and getting a birdie on the board and then to birdie the next as well was awesome.

Q.   And the 17‑foot birdie on the 17.   That's a hard read and a quick putt back down the water?
MARC LEISHMAN:   That was a tough putt, actually.   Hit it a little harder than I probably wanted to, but hit right in the middle.   You always gotta be happy when you roll them sort of putts in.

Q.   Take me through your strategy on the 15th hole, the 299‑yard par‑4.   Did you want to play short of that green all the way?
MARC LEISHMAN:   If I had to go on perfect, I didn't want to run up on the front edge, but yesterday I hit 3‑wood and it was a little bit too much club.   It brings a lot of trouble into play.   So I just decided to play for the front edge and try and two‑putt for birdie. 
I actually hit a reasonably good chip there.   Just bounced a bit firmer than I expected it to.   I probably hit it a little flatter than I wanted to.   It wasn't actually as bad a shot as it looked.

Q.   You were playing right behind Rory Sabbatini.   Did you see his ace?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I did.   Yeah, I did.   We were walking over to the 16th tee when he hit it, and obviously saw where he hit a pretty good shot and then heard the roar.   So that's always good to see.

Q.   Congratulations.   Great day for you. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Thank you.

Q.   Although I guess it's a good thing when people are coming up asking you a bunch of questions. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah.   It's always a good thing, especially on Sunday afternoon.   It's a great problem to have.   Not a problem.   You know, when you get to do all this, it means you've played well, and hopefully I've played well enough.   I'd say I'll be a shot or two short, but who knows.

Q.   Did you know it from the get‑go?   Was there a point where you kind of felt locked in?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Not really.   I saw that obviously I was hitting the ball well.   I was just trying to give myself as many chances as I could, and it was nice to have a couple of tap‑in birdies.   But I just hit the ball well, hitting fairways and obviously rolled the ball pretty well with the putter.

Q.   What will you do the next couple hours?   Will it be an anxious time for you or how will you approach it?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Obviously I'll be watching pretty closely, but I don't need to be anxious.   I probably think I'm one or two short and that's the attitude I'm going to have, so I'm not going to be disappointed when or if someone comes in at 15.   But I'm also not going to go anywhere either.   I'm not flying home or anything.   Yeah, me and my caddie, Mattie, will probably just hang around and watch a bit of TV and I don't know, stay out of trouble.

Q.   What did you have at 18?   Did the wind trick you up a little bit?   Looked like it died down. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Not really.   I had 107‑8 yards.   Tried to fade a gap wedge in there and I just pulled it.   It was just a bad shot.   It wasn't the wind or anything.   Trying to fade it into that pin, and obviously double crossed it and hit it into that valley.   Hit a really good putt out of there and it was short right in the middle of the hole, so with a little more pace, it would have went in.   That happens.   Didn't hit too many bad ones today.

Q.   Do you think nerves kind of played a part in that shot?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I felt a little nervous, but I think a couple weeks ago at the Byron Nelson I was in the same sort of situation, and I felt a lot better today than I did then. 
I think, you know, I hadn't been in that position for a while at the Byron Nelson, in probably about a year.   So I think that helped me today to calm my nerves.   I wasn't anywhere near as nervous as I was at the Nelson.   That's for sure.

Q.   Marc, a round like this, is it something that sort of just happens or is it something you've been working toward, you felt like was kind of close?
MARC LEISHMAN:   It's been close for a while actually.   I just get a little bit streaky with the putter, and I haven't been lately.   So it was good to hole ‑‑ I holed a good par putt on the first, actually.   And then probably 15, 20‑footer for birdie on the second.   And that sort of got the ball rolling. 
Yeah, just been a matter of giving myself enough chances.   I've been giving myself a few chances and then hitting a bad shot and throwing a bogey or a double in there.   So to not have any real bad mistakes today was good.   I didn't have any holes that just wrecked my momentum.

Q.   Anything in particular you've worked on the last maybe three weeks or so, four weeks?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I just had two weeks off actually.   I hardly touched the golf club.

Q.   No practice is sometimes good, I guess. 
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah.   I practiced I think two times in the three weeks.   So it was just good to spend a bit of time with the family, and had to help Mattie out with his Visa.   He's struggling with a view Visa issues.   We took care of that.   I can't really do what I'm doing without him.   So hopefully that'll get sorted out. 

Q.   What's the mindset like the night before where you know you have to go low, or a real low number is going to have to contend.   Did you change anything?
MARC LEISHMAN:   No, not really.   It was good last night.   We didn't finish till quite late.   I didn't finish till after 8, went and had dinner and by the time we got home ‑‑ well, home.   So the hotel.   It feels like home.   By the time we got back to the hotel it was probably 10:30, straight to bed and up and here.   So I didn't really have time to think about it. 
But it's just ‑‑ it's stress free really when you're that far back.   You know you've just gotta go low, and even after nine holes.   I think I was 5‑under after nine.

Q.   You weren't thinking ‑‑
MARC LEISHMAN:   I was thinking I had to have another five on the back to have a chance.   And that's the attitude I took.   Couldn't quite get it, but like I said, who knows what's going to happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT