HP BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2010
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Solid round of golf today, a birdie on the 9th for you? 
 MARC LEISHMAN: I had plenty of birdies today, and plenty of bogeys, too, but the putts were rolling in, thankfully. 

 Q. The greens seem like they're going to be receptive the whole weekend because of the humidity. 
 MARC LEISHMAN: It could be, have to wait and see if that's the case. Who knows what rolls out; you don't know what will happen. 

 Q. Tell me about the 2-iron you hit into that 7th green; we don't see too many of the butter knives on the TOUR anymore. 
 MARC LEISHMAN: Not too many of them, actually I just went to that the start of this year and thought it would be handy. 
 It worked pretty well last week and again there, so it's handy off the tee. 

 Q. Coming off of a great rookie season. Are you much more comfortable out here? 
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, a lot more comfortable than I was early on last year. Took me a while to get my bearings, but enjoying myself now, and especially if I'm playing like this, for the next two months. 

 Q. Last week you put a new shaft into the driver, kept the head and changed the shaft. Did you keep that stick in there this week? 
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it's been in since the Verizon Heritage. It's working well (no microphone.) which is good. Hopefully I can get it working on the weekend and make a lot of birdies. 

 Q. You're hitting more fairways and putting well; you're going to be a dangerous man come the weekend. 
 MARC LEISHMAN: Hopefully I can do that. Get the ball in the hole and we'll see how it goes. 

 Q. 6-under, talk about the round a little bit. 
 MARC LEISHMAN: Played pretty well, made a lot of birdies today and hit a few bogeys, keeping my arms close and hitting it in the fairway and hitting the greens so looking forward to the next couple of days. 

 Q. Big advantage not having to come back this morning to finish the round? 
 MARC LEISHMAN: Got an extra hour and a half sleep so that was nice. Didn't get off to sleep until after 9 so that was good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT