MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2010
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARC LEISHMAN: Played all right. A sketchy start, a little bit nervous. First Masters and all that. But I fought back at the end to get back to even, which I think is a pretty good score today.   
  
  Q. How are the conditions?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: The conditions were pretty easy early on. Not easy, it's never easy around here, but as easy as they will get. Toward the middle of the round it started getting a bit windy.   
 I was struggling with the putter, not struggling, hit a couple of bad putts and, but I guess that's always going to happen around here with how tricky the greens are. It was, all in all, a good day I think.  
  
  Q. A couple good birdies.   
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, birdied the last two. Good ones there. Tough ones.   
 Had a pretty easy chip on 17 which it's not very often you get an easy chip from this golf course, but managed to hole that.  
 15, I hit 7-iron in there, which it was actually a really good shot, but it rolled back and hung up on the bank and I got that up-and-down.   
 8? Yeah. Hit 3-iron in there. Pulled it left and then had a pretty tough chip and hit a really good pitch shot and I holed about a 4-footer there.   
 3, holed a good putt on 3. It was about a 15-footer, broke about probably three feet. So that really got the round going after the bogey on the first.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Pretty good. I was pretty nervous. Actually it sets up pretty good for me on the tee shot on the first, so it was good.   
 I guess it's just normal to be nervous in your first Masters on the first tee. But you just draw on past experiences. And just playing with Tiger last year I was pretty nervous then and hit a good tee shot, so I was thinking about that a little bit. It was a good day, I managed to shake off the nerves pretty early, which was good.  
  
  Q. Did you hit a good drive?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Hit a really good drive, it went a lot further than I thought it would. It was on a good line, it just went 10 meters farther than I thought it was going to. And I hit a good hook shot over the trees up on to the front part of the green and it rolled off and I didn't get up-and-down. I hit four good shots and made bogey. I guess that's something that you got to get used to around here.  
  
  Q. Being 3-over, is it a feeling of relief to get it to even par?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah. For sure. It's the first day, 3-over, 2-over still wouldn't have been disastrous. But to get it back to even is really really pleasing, especially with what the wind's doing now.   
 Hopefully I won't be too far behind. We'll find out at the end of the day. And yeah, hopefully have a nice one tomorrow. Get right in it.   
  
  Q. How do you think you'll approach tomorrow now that you got that first one under your belt?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Well I got a tournament round under my belt already. I don't know if I'll change my approach. I'll try and keep making the birdies and cut out the mistakes. Around here or any golf course you're going to make a few mistakes, you just try and keep the doubles out.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, definitely. I'm hitting the ball really well. Just need to roll a few putts in and not miss any short ones like I did today. But it's very tricky. You know you got a three-footer and you know if you try and firm it in and miss it it's going to go like 10 or 15 feet past.   
 So you got to be very tentative and it's just different. It's going to take a little bit of getting used to. Hopefully I'll do a little bit of putting now after lunch and get ready for tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT