DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 7, 2009
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. There's been a lot of talk about this FedExCup, the chase and the points, and here's a perfect personification of the entire situation, Marc Leishman. You started the week 93rd. After some good play, started with a 62, of course, the first day of the championship. You're in 73rd position standing in the 18th fairway. What did you know about what you needed to do?   
 MARC LEISHMAN: Well, I thought birdie might have been good enough, but I was thinking I probably needed to make eagle. I was actually right between 3- and 4-iron in the fairway, so I went with 4 thinking I needed to make a 3. So it turned out all right for me.  
  
  Q. How much were you thinking about golf today and how much were you thinking about trying to get to next week?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: A bit of both. Probably before today I wanted to seal up my card for next year. If things didn't work out today, that was probably going to work out good in that respect is that I was going to seal up my card for next year. But to get through to the BMW next week is awesome. I'm looking forward to it.   
  
  Q. Did you have any idea what you were playing for on 18?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: I thought I was going to have to -- I thought birdie might have been enough, but I knew eagle was probably going to be good enough. As I told Jimmy over there, I was right between 3- and 4-iron, 204 meters to the front, and that's pretty much the maximum for my 4. I hit that well, and yeah, it rolled up to six or eight feet and made the putt, which was nice.   
  
  Q. Geoff said he was looking at the projected standings on every hole. Were you looking at it?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: No. Well, when there was leaderboards I was having a look, but every time I seemed to look, it wasn't coming up; it was just a leaderboard. At one stage I had a look, and I think I was like 9-under and I was outside. I knew I had to at least make a birdie or an eagle at the last, so it was great to be able to do it when it mattered.  
  
  Q. But you weren't sure exactly what you needed?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: No, I wasn't exactly sure. Like I said, I thought birdie might have been good enough, but I knew eagle was good enough.  
  
  Q. Was there a lot of pressure to that eagle putt then?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah. When I first looked at it, I thought it was inside left, and I had another look, and it was actually an inside right putt, so hit it inside right.  
  
  Q. Did you or your caddie know at the start of the week what you needed to do to possibly make the top 70?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, we thought top 20. Actually I was talking to Ross, one of the PGA officials, this morning, and he actually told me that probably top 20, I'd need a top 20 at the worst to get in. So it was good to just have a good finish. Things sort of took care of themselves.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about playing your way into next week's tournament?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: It's great. At the start of the week I would have jumped at it. Just a little bit of extra added pressure knowing that you have to play well. But at the same time still pretty good to get here, I guess, my first year. So I wouldn't have been ridiculously disappointed if I didn't get to next week. But it was definitely one of my goals, to get that 3 and get to the last event.  
  
  Q. You said on 18 you were 204. That's meters, right?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: 204 meters, 223 yards, 225.   
  
  Q. Was that to the hole?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: No, that's to the front.  
  
  Q. And you hit 4-iron you said?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: 4-iron, yeah.   
  
  Q. Did you think about John Senden making 2?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it was good that it came in that low and rolled up and then just rolled the putt in. Finished up with a fairly good tournament.  
  
  Q. Do you know Brett Quigley at all?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Not really, no.  
  
  Q. Have you ever met him, played with him?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: No, I haven't, actually. Sorry, Brett.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT