DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2009
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Looks like you had a little fun out there today.   
 MARC LEISHMAN: It was great fun. Rolling a few putts in there is always fun to shoot a good score like that, especially at a big tournament like this.  
  
  Q. Were the greens soft early and firmed up? Because that shot on the last hole really took a big skip on you.   
 MARC LEISHMAN: I mean, it wasn't soft at any stage I wouldn't say. They were still bouncing forward. But they were definitely firming up towards the end. Still playable, of course, but I tried to hit that one a little bit lower and run it back there on the last. It's good, though, you can hit a good shot into the hole, and if you don't, it won't.  
  
  Q. Currently 93rd on the FedExCup list. You really needed to do something today, and you did.   
 MARC LEISHMAN: Needed to make a move, that's for sure, to get in next week, so hopefully can have a couple good ones on the weekend. Another real good one would be nice, and we'll see what happens.   
  
  Q. 16 of 18 greens today, obviously a good day.   
 MARC LEISHMAN: I hit the ball really well. It was scoring conditions, that's for sure. It was great getting out there really early on the smooth greens and no wind, so it was low scoring conditions, and made the most of it, which was nice to do for a change.  
  
  Q. 93rd on the FedExCup point standings. Big move trying to get in the Top 70 for next week.   
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I need a couple more good rounds. I'm a little behind the 8-ball at the moment. But looking forward to the weekend. Hopefully can have a couple more good rounds and get into that 70, and who knows, top 30 might be not too far away after this week with any luck.  
  
  Q. Are you starting to feel more comfortable getting in amongst it in your rookie year with all the stars?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Definitely. You know, a little bit star-struck at first, the first tournaments you play with Tiger and Phil and the big names, but starting to get used to it. Obviously the more you do it, the better you get. Hopefully keep getting myself in this position and hopefully a real good one is not too far away.  
  
  Q. Have you been getting a lot of help from the other Australians on TOUR?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I spend a fair bit of time with Nathan Green. He had a win a few weeks ago, so that was great to see. John Senden, had a practice round with him this week. He's been really good. And of course Nitties and Pricey. It's been great. I'm starting to feel a lot more comfortable and hopefully can be a lot more comfortable after this week.  
  
  Q. What was the key to your good scoring today?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Probably putting. I holed a few really good putts. You know, it was nice to see the ball rolling and reading the greens well. You know, if you miss the greens, as smooth as they are, you can definitely hole a few putts. Yeah, it was a good day, and as I say, hopefully another good one tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Did you realize you had shot 29 on your first nine?   
 MARC LEISHMAN: Walking down the 1st fairway, I'm like, 29? But then I was like, I shot 1-under yesterday, so definitely it was in my mind for about ten seconds, and then I just knocked myself out of it.  
  
  Q. Was putting the only difference between today and yesterday?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, putting. Actually I didn't hit the ball close enough to the hole yesterday. I had a lot of short irons into greens and hitting to 30 feet. Did a bit of work on the range last night and sorted out what was going on. Yeah, had a good one today.  
  
  Q. How does it feel to be at the top of this group at a tournament like this?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: Oh, it's great. I mean, it's going to be fun on the weekend, well, tomorrow and Monday, to be in one of the last groups with hopefully a chance to win. It's good to be at the top of any tournament, obviously especially having so much on the line.  
  
  Q. That's pretty funny that you mentioned Sunday and Monday. Is it weird being out of sync, normally Thursday to Sunday? Is it strange this week?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: It is a little strange. I mean, last week I missed the cut and had four days of pretty much nothing. So I went back to Virginia Beach and just chilled out for a couple of days. So it was good because it sort of felt like a week off. But it is different. I was talking to my fiancé (Audrey Hills) last night, and I forgot today was the weekend.  
  
  Q. When did she become your fiancé?  
 MARC LEISHMAN: About three weeks ago, so it's pretty recent.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT