WNB GOLF CLASSIC
October 12, 2008
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NATIONWIDE TOUR MEDIA OFFICIAL: Marc Leishman, congratulations. This is your first Nationwide Tour victory, and by 11 shots, which ties the record for the largest margin. You must feel pretty happy with yourself?
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it's awesome to get the first victory under the belt. It takes a lot of pressure off. Especially after the Salt Lake City tournament where I was close to the lead in the last round and couldn't finish it off. 
 Yeah, it's awesome to be able to win and win in that way. To be able to enjoy, you know, the last six, eight holes, knowing that as long as I didn't do anything really stupid, I was going to be enough to win. So, it was, yeah, a great day.

 Q. Talk about your round today. You obviously got off to a great start. That must have taken a lot of pressure off? 
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, definitely. Up-and-down for birdie on 2 from about 70 yards. And then eagled number 4, which was played conservative off the tee and still managed to make eagle. 
 Probably the eagle on 4 was where I could start to, not relax a little bit, but just start to play a little bit more conservative. Take the big ones out of play and be able to, obviously, still have to make a few birdies or like to make a few birdies. 

 Q. Tell me how your performance was so dominant? I know you grew up in Warrnambool, which is a very windy town. Explain how you practiced a lot there and learned to play shots on the wind?
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it's down on the southeast coast of Australia. Next stop south is Antarctica, so it gets pretty windy down there and cold at times. 
 But, you know, playing golf there after school every day and just always in the wind. Like you'd never -- maybe once a year you'd get a day where there is no wind which is totally opposite over here pretty much in the States. 
 It's just really enjoyable to play in the wind, or I enjoy playing it. I tend to play better in the wind. It just makes me think about it a bit more, and if I can play a lot more different shots. Just holding balls up against the wind, I really enjoy doing that. So it was really good.

 Q. This victory moves you from 56 to 19th on the Nationwide Tour money list. Obviously your goals are going to change now. Just talk about that for us. 
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, definitely. Maybe before this week the realistic goal was to get in the Top 40 in the money list to get to the final stage of Q-school. But, obviously, now that changes to get up as high as I can in the top 25. And, you know, hopefully keep the momentum going. You know, another good finish would be great. 

 Q. Well, especially with three events left and the Tour Championship being a million dollars, a lot can change?
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, definitely. I've definitely still got to be playing really well to stay in that Top 25.

 Q. What about your family and friends at home in Warrnambool, and I know you spent time in Virginia Beach? They must be pretty happy?
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, mom and dad, I actually made a deal with them. I said when I had my first win I'd fly you both over to America. They've never been out of Australia. So that was really good. 
 And my girlfriend Audrey spent a lot of time over there in Virginia Beach. I actually booked her a flight to Australia for early January, but, hopefully, that will have to change.

 Q. Congratulations on your victory. You must be pretty happy. Go on and enjoy yourself tonight. 
 MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, definitely. Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT