THE PRESIDENTS CUP
December 13, 2019
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about playing with Abe?  
MARC LEISHMAN: He's such a good putter and love being in the heat of the battle. He's a competitor and that's what you need to be in this.   
 Q.  How did you know him before Thursday?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I saw him win the Australian Open last year. That was on a similar golf course, not as firm as this but a very similar golf course to here. No one was expecting him to win, and he won. I guess he's a little more well known now, but from the outside people probably don't expect him to win. That's maybe an asset in something like this. You've got to love the spotlight and he certainly does.   
 Q.  You never know a guy in the team room, how it translates?  
MARC LEISHMAN: You don't, but I think confidence is a good thing. If you instill confidence into someone, I feel like they are more likely to play better than if you tell them, hey, you know, you should be all right or whatever. Again, golf is a game of confidence. When it's high, you feel like you're never going to hit a bad shot, and when it's low, you feel like you're never going to hit a good one again. He's playing with a lot of confidence and hopefully he can keep that until Sunday.   
 Q.  Ernie has spent his entire playing career going up against Tiger and he's spent all week listening to everyone talk about Tiger's captaincy. Do you think it added anymore motivation or purpose as to who his counterpart was in his first go-around was as captain?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I think he would want to beat anyone. We talk about competitors, he is a real competitor. Tiger has beaten him a lot and he doesn't want that to happen this week.   
 Q.  Do you almost feel like you want to win this as much for him as for yourself?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, for sure. Growing up, I've said this a lot of times -- to be on his team and a leader on his team -- so that's pretty cool. We want to do him proud and have a successful week.   
 Q.  The crowd with Patrick again today -- have you ever been part of anything like that?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, we had it two years ago in New York and it was worse than this.   
 Q.  Personal like this?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Oh, yeah, for sure. It was bad in New York City, but you expect it to be bad. I mean, it's a home game. You want there to be an advantage for the home team, and they certainly have it in New York, and it looks like we've got it so far this week.   
Yeah, I think the crowd's have been very good. But yeah, a football crowd, which is what we needed.   
 Q.  Are you guys talking about it?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I mean, yesterday, playing Tiger, I felt like the crowd was pretty neutral, and today, it was obviously a very different story playing Patrick.   
But yeah, I think it's great. That's the way it should be.   
 Q.  Does the team culture feel different from previous Presidents Cups you've played?  
MARC LEISHMAN: It does. We've bonded so much earlier in the week, or the year, I'll say. We felt like we bonded pretty well before this week, which is a good sign. The Americans, they spent a lot of time together every year, every week, and we don't. Yeah, it's definitely a different feeling.   
 Q.  Fair to say the scores are a byproduct of that in some way?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yes, definitely. I think for sure. It makes a difference when you're comfortable with who you're playing with and you don't feel bad -- you don't feel extra pressure to hit a good shot or ever what. Yeah, it's been good and hopefully that can continue and we can stay ahead.   
 Q.  Do you want to play Tiger in singles on Sunday?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I'll play whoever Ernie wants to play. I'm not picking him out by any means.   
 Q.  It is an interesting construct, will Tiger put his name out or will he wait?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Who knows? Yeah, he's playing great.   
 Q.  You know the Australians want to see an Australian play him --  
MARC LEISHMAN: We'll see what happens. I'll be happy to play him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT