TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2019
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Some thoughts on your round today.  Obviously that putt on the last was pretty special.  4-under; happy with that?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, happy with that.  Always feel like you could be one or two better.  Really good putt on 9 for par, and then really good putt there on 18 for par.
Q. Overall what did you think you did the best?
MARC LEISHMAN: I thought I drove it really well actually.  Drove the ball well, and that gives you chances going into the greens.  You can actually attack flags from the fairway.
Putted great.  Had that 3-putt on 11 which was disappointing, but apart from that hit the putts where I wanted to.  Probably most pleasing thing is the driver.  Drove it really good; best I've driven it in a long time.
Q. Are you surprised given the dampness that 6-under is leading?
MARC LEISHMAN: Not really.  I mean, it's playing pretty long, to be honest.  Normally you can get to, what is it, 6 you can normally get there for two; couldn't sniff that today.  Well, we couldn't.
Going into 13 with a 2-iron; normally going in there with a 4-, 5-, 6-iron.  You can run it up on 15.  There are a few holes that played tougher.  Yes you could go at it on the greens, but they weren't like stupidly soft.  If you didn't hit a well-struck iron shot it would still release a little bit, which is good.  Fun golf course.  Set up really good.  Unbelievable condition.  Hopefully sun comes out and can dry it out a bit.
Q. How much better do you feel when you hole a putt like that on the last from 20 something feet for par?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, really good.  Really good.  It's nice.  Actually hit a (indiscernible) second shot.  It was meant to be two yards right of the pin and was it one yard left, and all of a sudden you're looking at a really hard up and down rather than a 10-footer for birdie.
It's nice when you can do that.  You walk up that hill a little bit quicker.
Q. Finally, I've got to ask.  You've gotten a lot of exposure in the last 24 hours for your lawn mowing skills.  What sort of comments have you had from other players?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, a lot of comments.  Yeah, come across really well.  Everyone has been really happy about it.  Just very interested about it really.  Something I love doing, as you could tell.  Yeah, all positive.  All positive feedback, apart from the bare feet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT