BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2019
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Marc, you had an a nice weekend. May even gained a stroke going into East Lake. What are your thoughts going into the Tour Championship?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah. I think 20th or around that is certainly a lot more chance next week with this format than I would have been with the old format.   
Obviously got a lot of work to do but certainly a better chance than what it would have been the old format.   
 Q.  What are thoughts on the starting strokes?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I like it. Simplifies is. I don't think it's as good for the guys that are 1st and 2nd and 3rd. You know, the old way, if you were leading and finished 20th you could maybe drop to 3rd or 4th. You're leading and have a bad week you could drop a long way. I don't think it's good for them. Certainly makes it a lot more exciting as long as someone up ahead doesn't tear it up and get miles in front.   
 Q.  I was going to ask you about the Presidents Cup, too. Obviously you're No. 1 in points, the top 8 confirmed. Get a chance to look at guys there and how do you think that top 8 is shaping up?  
MARC LEISHMAN: It's shaping up pretty good. I think the biggest thing for us, we need to play well at Royal Melbourne. Doesn't matter -- it does matter who is on the team but whoever is there, they play well, we have a chance. If we don't play well, we don't have a chance. It's as simple as that.   
Yeah, I mean the team looks good. It's an important week for us and I'm certainly excited for it, having the Presidents Cup in my home town and hopefully we'll get off to a good start and get the fans involved.   
 Q.  Don't think Jason is getting a pick. I assume he's -- I assume he's going to get a pick.  
MARC LEISHMAN: I would think so. Yeah, I would think he will get a pick, especially being Australian. I know he would have preferred to have made the team on his own but I think he'll be Royal Melbourne.   
 Q.  Marc, comment on your final round, on your week as a whole this week.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah. Started off pretty poorly. I played terrible Thursday. Didn't play great Friday, either, and then improved everyday, I guess which is nice. If I can keep doing that all the way to next Sunday, it should lead to a good week next week and hopefully a trophy.   
 Q.  Taking confidence out of two 67s this weekend?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Definitely. Like I said, I had no confidence Thursday afternoon when I finished. We tinkered with my coach a little bit on the range Friday morning and it worked. Yeah, feel good leading into Atlanta and I had a decent year there last year. Haven't had a whole lot of success but feel like I'm learning that course. I'm excited about learning that course.   
 Q.  What did you work on with Dennis?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I was getting a little bit close to the ball and little bit too far back in the stance. Very simple stuff but that little, little stuff can make the biggest difference and it did.   
 Q.  You're obviously No. 1 in the point standings for the Presidents Cup. Do you feel now that you should lead by example and sort of be the leader of the team playing-wise and form-wise, maybe?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I hope I can keep playing well. I hope so. Yeah, lead by example. That would be nice. Hopefully everyone is in really good form then, too. Yeah, it will be a good week.   
Like I say, just important that we need to play good. Yeah. Being a leader on that team is going to be pretty good. It's my fourth Presidents Cup. I've been there before and we want a different outcome from what we experienced before.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT