WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 28, 2019
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How good does it feel to get two off the bat?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it's good to get two pretty hard-fought wins, actually.  Played well both days.  I played pretty well yesterday, just made a few mistakes.  And Russ, in the tough conditions I knew was going to be hard to beat today, being Scottish and knowing how to play in the wind.  Really happy to win my first two matches but I've got a really tough one tomorrow.   
 Q.  Do you feel like on that week with Dennis prepared you for this week?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, definitely.  Like I said a couple of days ago, at THE PLAYERS I didn't have a clue where it was going, just hitting everything thin.  Having a coach that's been with me for so long, we've been together for 18 years, he saw it straight away and fixed it up within half an hour of kind of looking at me, real sorted.   
 Q.  What was the problem?  
MARC LEISHMAN: My stance was too narrow, which changed my ball position and messed everything up.  Not quite a study a base as I needed for my body.  So it was, yeah, it was simple, but very, very productive.  The difference between two weeks ago at THE PLAYERS and this week, I mean, I feel like a different person over the ball and the ball is coming out like I feel it should.   
 Q.  Do you enjoy the fact that you've got your destiny in your own hands from here own out basically?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I mean I've just got to win.  Bryson is going to be a tough match.  Did he win today?   
 Q.  No.  He has to beat you to force a playoff.  
MARC LEISHMAN: So, yes, I mean he's got a lot to play for, as do I.  I really don't want to have to go to a playoff, it would be nice to take care of that in 18 holes, but knowing how good he's played and what sort of match player he is, it's going to be tough.   
But it is going to be nice it's in my hands.  If I play well I have a good chance to get through, and if I don't he'll beat me.  Simple as that, really.  Everyone here is a great player.   
 Q.  You struck the ball pretty well today and made some good putts.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, struck the ball good.  Just got to try to do what I'm doing, I guess.  Had a couple of three-putts today, one three-putt, maybe, maybe two, I can't remember.  I remember I had a three-putt and that's disappointing.  You can't give holes away like that.   
So just sharpen up the long lag putting.  And then aside from that, if I keep doing what I'm doing, I feel like I'm on the right track.   
 Q.  How tough was it out there today?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, two days in a row.  It was pretty tough out there.  The conditions were gusty winds and the greens are starting to dry out.  I knew Russ would be tough today, being from Scotland and knowing how to play in the wind.   
We both played pretty decent.  Very lucky to get away with a win.   
 Q.  Presidents Cup later this year, PGA Tour event in your own country, match play, what do you think about this format, you have to enjoy this week?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I love it.  It's different.  The head-to-head is a bit more strategic.  You can be a little more aggressive at times.  I'm excited about the Presidents Cup.  We need to get our stuff together and give you guys a run for the money.   
 Q.  This was a hard-fought battle with Russell Knox all the way down to the 18th hole.  Your thoughts on how you played?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, played pretty good, drove it a lot better today which was good, hit a couple of loose ones yesterday.  Played at par-3s better, lost every par-3 yesterday, so, no, it was tough conditions but I played pretty smart and was very happy to get away with the win.   
 Q.  12th hole, par 5.  You make a 3, he makes birdie, that puts you 2-up and that kind of -- you lost one after that, but tell me about that hole, and I'm looking at the notes and Schauffele got it 425 off the tee?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it was 350 to the end of the fairway and downhill, downwind, and got the help of that hill, and had gap wedge into the hole.  So it's always nice to have some sort of wedge into a par 5 and then to make eagle was even better, especially when he's made a birdie already.   
 Q.  Thoughts on tomorrow?  Now, you've won two matches, you've got two points, and you control your own destiny to get to Saturday.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it's going to be a tough match.  Bryson is a great player, great match player.  He's had a lot of success in match play events.  I just have to keep doing what I'm doing.  I'm not going to be able to play mediocre golf and beat him.  I've got to play good golf.  Hopefully I can do that and get away with the win and take away points into the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT