DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2018
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARC LEISHMAN: It was a bad miss on 10.  I missed a really good tee shot and then between clubs and I went for the hard one, so that was a disappointing way to start.   
 Q.  Got that little assist from the guy over there on the 6th hole.  Kind of a little bit of good luck.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, a bid of comedy there.  I saw him backtracking and running backwards and I guess he tripped over and hit the sole of his shoe and bounced back on the greens.  That's the first time that's ever happened to me.  It's nice when it does happen.   
 Q.  Last couple of years this has been your time of the season.  You held the lead coming into the last round here last year, obviously.  What's it about this golf course that suits your eye?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I read the greens pretty well.  Coming off of last week there was a lot of draws off the tee.  I really enjoy this place, there's some room, and you can play it into the fairways.  I guess I enjoy that about it.  Generally it's pretty firm here and a bit of wind.  I like playing in the wind and firm conditions.  I enjoy playing it.  I enjoy the course.  So that always helps.   
 Q.  The golf course is firm.  
MARC LEISHMAN: It's tricky out there because the wind is moving around a little bit.  The greens are baked out already.  The 5th green this morning was already baking out quite a lot, so that's going to get interesting this afternoon.  So, yeah, it's tricky out there, and really happy with my start.   
 Q.  You almost hit me, but you hit another fan that gave you an unbelievable kick on No. 6, what a break for you.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, he probably gave me a better assist than you might have.  Hopefully I don't need those short of brakes later in the week.  But it was nice of him.  He gave me a little break like that.  Especially to make the most of the hole with a birdie, as well.   
 Q.  When you look at your round overall, you erase that double bogey, it was a great round of golf for you.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it was.  It was tough conditions out there.  The wind was up.  And it was pretty tricky.  It was moving around little bit.  The greens firmed up a bit.  Obviously a disappointing start, but to shoot in the 60s after that.   
 Q.  This time of year, the pressure of the playoffs and the excitement of the playoffs, talk about that.  
MARC LEISHMAN: There's so much to gain.  And so much to lose.  So if you play well, you, you start playing well in four events and if you don't, you start missing four cuts.  I like that sort of cutthroat golf, I guess you'd call it.  And it would be nice to do what I did last year and have a couple of good finishes late in the championship.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT