THE 147TH OPEN
July 19, 2018
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you sum that up?  What a roller coaster round?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, good start and bad finish.  If you hit bad shots around here, you get punished.  Unfortunately, I hit a couple of average shots that finished in bad positions.  You can rack up bogeys and doubles pretty quick.  Front nine was promising.  Back nine obviously wasn't what I was after.  Like I said, with some of the shots I was hitting, part of last, and to only shoot one over probably wasn't too bad.   
 Q.  The overriding emotion, even with that double, it was a good double, wasn't it?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, 1-over when I'm six or seven back, something like that.  I'm certainly not out of that.  I've come from farther back before.  I'm obviously pretty disappointed at the moment.  But it's 54 holes to go.  Some tough conditions tomorrow by the looks of it with the rain.  The course is only getting tougher out there now.   
I'm obviously disappointed.  But, yeah, positive.   
 Q.  Did you notice the difference from the first few holes how the greens were reacting to shots by the time you finished?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it changed a lot.  Starting to get a few -- not quite shiny, but you can see it was starting to bake out a little bit, which is good.  You'd expect that.  But it was still rolling good and everything.  But definitely, yes, firming up.  And the whole course is firming up.  It's fun to play like that when you don't quite know how far it's going to go, but you've got to use your play your way around.   
 Q.  Looked like you were hitting playing well?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I was for the first eight.  Obviously, it's nowhere near.  It's still a game, and you've still got to plot your way around.  Certainly, I'd like to have the tee shot on 14 again.  Apart from that, I mean -- well, the tee shot on 18 to salvage par, but that's probably the only shot I'd like to have again.  The second shot on 10, it jumped on me, which I wasn't expecting it to.  I was trying to hit a little trap draw, and it didn't come out like that.  When they jump, they always go right on me, and it certainly did.  I'd like to have that shot again and the tee shot on 14.  But other than that, it probably wasn't that bad.   
 Q.  Were you planning to hit your iron off 18 until you saw Fleetwood's drive?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I've been hitting iron off that all week.  It's hard when the condition is like this because you can't take the bunkers out of play.  Normally, you'd be hitting 2 iron or driver off that hole and you can't get to those fairway bunkers.  But my 2 iron would have gone past them today.  Yeah, I was planning on doing that anyway.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT