AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 19, 2018
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome Marc Leishman into the Interview Room after a 2-under par 69, currently tied at 17-under with Aaron Wise.
Marc, if we can get some comments on your play today, please.
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah.  It was -- the conditions were a lot different today, obviously.  Lot windier, course was firmer and just generally tougher, few harder pin positions.
I played well.  I'm happy with the way I finished off in particular.  Not the greatest start, definitely not the start I was after, par on the first hole, feels like a bogey and then bogey the 2nd.  So fight back after that and shoot in the 60s, I was really happy.
JOHN BUSH: Let's go right into questions.
Q. Marc, how did your approach and just strategy today differentiate from the previous two days with the weather and the way the course is playing today?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah.  Well, I was a little more conservative off the tee for the most part.  Few more 2-irons, hitting a lower shot to keep it out of the breeze.  You know, I learned a lot today.
I hit, as far as clubs off tees go, hit a 3-wood on 9 to be short of the bunker at 340 and went straight in it.  That's a bit of getting used to. Normally I can't hit my driver anywhere close to that.
Just the bouncing out, that took some adjusting.  As far as strategy go, not really.  Probably, just played a little more conservative into the greens just to try and avoid some bad spots, but I hit it into some bad shots.  I hit a few bad shots out there today.
That's something I'll have to cleanup tomorrow if I want to win.
Q. Marc, does the unpredictable nature of this course keep it from becoming match play with you and Aaron, four shots clear of the field?
MARC LEISHMAN: Definitely.  I showed Thursday you can shoot a low one.  One of the guys, 12, 13-under, goes out and shoots 7, 8-under, that means we got to shoot 4.  That's certainly not a given that one of us is going to win.
You know, some days of golf tournaments funny things happen and you have to stay right in it, stay in the moment, not get ahead of yourself.  When you start getting ahead of yourself, that's what gives those guys behind chasing a chance.
So, you know, I don't really want to give them a chance.  I'd love to go out and shoot a low one and make Aaron have to shoot a good score tomorrow to beat me.  So -- which I fully expect he will shoot a good score.
Q. What were your impressions of Aaron playing with him?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah.  First time I played with him.  Very good player.  He grinded well.  He fought hard.  Hit it in a few bad shots but hit really, really good recovery shots.  That's probably the most impressive thing.  Couple of really good up and downs.
He's a solid player for I heard this morning he's only 21.  I didn't realize that.  I guess I was in high school before he was born so that's -- I don't know.  You hear guys talk about that all the time but I've never said that, I think.  Yeah, he's a good player.
Q. Marc, a long time passed from your first win to your second.  What did you learn to finally getting over the hump of the second win that helped you win so quickly the third one?
MARC LEISHMAN: I think I learned that you -- yes, you have to play very well, you have to play really good golf to win.  That's a given.
But you have to -- everyone makes mistakes and you have to deal with those mistakes well.  You can't let a bogey turn into 2, 3 bogies.  You got to get over it and fight.
That's probably the biggest thing.  And I mean before last year I was a pretty slow starter.  I always got off to a slow start Thursday or be fighting to make the cut and have a good weekend and slide into the Top-10.
I found that grinding harder early in the week -- just not trying harder, but with as laid back as I am, it's sort of easy to just go through the motions and you're not feeling nervous, maybe it takes you a few holes to get into -- to get into a round.
Getting into that round straight away on the first tee rather than the 9th green or something which sounds like a really basic thing but it's something I didn't do very well until last year.
JOHN BUSH: Are we good?  All right.  Marc, short and sweet.  Thank you, sir.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT