AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 18, 2018
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  10-under with a 5-under 66.  I thought there was more out there for you.  
MARC LEISHMAN: There are always two, three four out there.  I'll certainly take that, you know.  It's hard to back it up after yesterday's round.  It's hard to back it up.  Yesterday was probably a few more out there but I holed a couple of good putts.  Probably not going to expect to.  The ones I missed, there's a few I made.   
 Q.  I spoke to Adam about the comfort.  He feels very comfortable with this style of golf.  You looked equally as comfortable.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah.  I enjoy this type of golf.  Reminds me of back in Australia, like the balls running out on the fairways, reading the greens well.  Like I said, I kicked that up over the last two days.   
 Q.  How keen do you have to be as to where and how disciplined do you have to be to where you have to land the ball in order to get it close to the hole?  
MARC LEISHMAN: That's the thing, where you're going to land it, not where you want to finish.  What would seem like silly clubs from long distances but you're trying to land it 20 yards short of the pin and let it run out.  Got to trust your yardage, take in all the undulations, valleys and do that.   
Having played on link courses before, I feel like I've adapted well to that, keep going the next couple of days.   
 Q.  15-under through two rounds.  Good luck on the week.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Thanks a lot.   
 Q.  How do you feel about backing up 10-under par with 5-under par in the 2nd Round and maybe some different conditions as far as that wind felt a little bit stronger today?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Definitely was a little bit stronger.  The course was a tad softer today.  It's hard to back up a really low round like I had.  If you told me I would have 5-under today this morning, I would have been happy.  Probably moreso the way I'm reading the greens and things.   
 Q.  I wanted to follow-up on the putting which has been phenomenal.  Those 7 footers to save par to go to the weekend with that sort of momentum, that has to be just as big as all the other stuff, right?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, for sure.  That putt on the hole on the last one, I had a wedge and missed it a little bit.  It would have left a sour taste in my mouth to miss that putt.   
 Q.  You have an incredible record at this event, three Top-5 finishes.  The new venue this year, tell us about the weekend and what you're looking forward to.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Staying in the hunt again.  You know, I haven't had a whole lot of chances to win this year.  I'm looking forward to giving myself a chance to win.  Hopefully I can do the same what I've been doing, hitting the ball well and give myself lots of birdie opportunities, give myself that I'll hole a few.  Be nice to walk away here with the trophy Sunday night.  That's a long way away.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT