AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 17, 2018
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  PGA career best for Marc at 61.  Marc, there's been so much talk about the steep learning curve on this course the first time this event being held here.  
 How did you acclimate your game so quickly?   
MARC LEISHMAN: Well, actually said to Matty, went out this morning and on a new course (inaudible).   
 Q.  Marc, was there a point during this round that you thought this could be a special day?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Well, I mean Matty actually said something as we come to the last (inaudible).  The grains are as penalizing as they are, you can hit a bad shot.  Didn't get ahead of myself.   
 Q.  You talk about it being a mistake-free round.  Clean card.  In fact, you hit every fairway.  What parts made it so easy?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Probably the first time I've ever done that.  I hit my irons well and in the fairway.  That's key around here.  The fairways are generous. Hitting it to the right sides of the fairway.   
 Q.  Marc, you played a lot of golf in your career.  How does this round compare as far as precision and control of your golf ball shooting 61, a career low?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it was certainly one of the best driving days I've had.  Hit everything, every fairway.  That's important around here.  The fairways are generous.  You still have to hit them.   
That was nice.  Iron play was great and then didn't feel like I was hitting -- having to hit too many chip shots.  The putter was hot.  That combination is a nice way to start the tournament and shoot a low round.   
 Q.  Outside of the fact that you're 10-under par after one round, your impressions and evaluations of what you saw out of a design we don't see a lot on the PGA TOUR.  
MARC LEISHMAN: I think it's great.  You know, with no wind it's definitely there to be had.  You can shoot low like I did today and there's a lot of low numbers.  But I think if it was to get a bit of wind it's going to change this place completely.   
I think, you know, you're going to see some years where 20-under will win the tournament, some years 5, 6-under will win it.  All weather-dependent.   
That's a sign of a good links course.  You can make birdies if there's no defense, which is the wind, and there's wind it's going to be -- you've got to be really on your game.   
 Q.  Marc, just some comments about the day.  I heard you over here saying the driving was the important factor, you hit every fairway, key to this course.  
MARC LEISHMAN: It is.  The driving was great today.  Hit every fairway and probably if it's not the first time I've done that in my career, probably there wouldn't be too many.   
That the case.  Really good iron play and then, you know, to shoot the score I did, everything has to be on and it was today.   
 Q.  Heck of a round of, 61, 10-under par.  
 Any conversations or thoughts about the magnificent 59 during the day?   
MARC LEISHMAN: Matty actually mentioned it walking up the last, still a chance.  Thinking about that.  Honestly didn't enter my head until that -- every other time of going low I've thought about it but today I didn't.  That shows how hard this course can be.  But today it didn't have really any defense and guys were shooting low.   
 Q.  Beyond your round, what did you think of the course overall?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I really like the golf course.  It's a links course, clearly.  When it's firm like it is now it plays like a proper links course which is good.  I think they've done a really good job building the base properly, I guess so it is firm.   
I think if it was soft it would be a very difficult but it's firm so I really like it.  I think with a bit of wind it's going to be very different.   
Some years this tournament, 20-under is going to win and some years that single digits are going to win, weather-dependent.   
 Q.  What is the key to (inaudible)  
MARC LEISHMAN: I think just when you hit -- hitting good shots and not being in bad positions I think that makes you comfortable but there's so many bad shots out there, you know, if you're a little bit off you can hit it in some bad shots and I think that can be focused to try and avoid those and really zone in on where I want to hit it and not where I didn't want to hit.   
Eagling the first takes a little bit of pressure off.  First hole of the tournament, you want to get going.   
Yeah, just hitting good shots was nice.   
 Q.  Had you played it before this week and when did you get in this week?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I hadn't played it before this week.  I got in Tuesday morning so I played the back-9 yesterday and then on Tuesday and out there today.  So, it was a nice day to play my first tournament round out there where it wasn't too windy.   
I think, you know, that played very similar to the practice rounds.  Bit a wind going to be completely different.  I learned a lot today out there.  Hopefully I can take learnings as the week goes on.   
 Q.  You felt like a links course, did it feel like an Australian course in a some ways?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Down in the Mornington Peninsula in South Melbourne.  Yeah, no trees, just similar field.  Fairly open.  Still travel on the ground, long.   
It's completely different grasses to the grass there but it's just got that feel so yeah, I enjoyed the first go around on it and hopefully I can stay hot and keep going.   
 Q.  Given your track record, were you sad to leave Las Colinas?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yes, I was.  Probably would have been the harshest critic, I think.  I played very well over there.  I really enjoyed that tournament.  When I got here and saw instantly, you know, was happy that we're here and it's just a cool spot.  Something that we don't play all the time.  I think it's a good change.   
Lot of golf courses designed the same these days, lot of trees, fairly soft and this is completely different, which I think is a good thing.  They've done a great job with it.   
 Q.  You mentioned that you were still learning the course.  Did anything surprise you today and what do you think you learned the most about it?  
MARC LEISHMAN: How far the ball was rolling on the fairways.  We're not used to that at all playing on the Tour over here.  Normally it's all through the air, trying to bomb it high and fly it as far as you can.   
Today, you know, I was hitting 3-wood over 300 yards, which I'll never do, rolling out really good.  When I hit my driver, hit 6-iron in the practice round on a hole and sand wedge today.  Hopefully they keep it dry and it plays like a links course all week and I think it will make for a good tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT