MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2018
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Great round today, you have to be happy with that.   
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, very happy. It was a tough day out there and happy to get off to the start I did and then not make too many mistakes, which is very important on a day like today.  
   
 Q. You hit the shot of the tournament so far on 15. Talk us through it.   
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I mean I had to hook it around the trees there, it was a pretty tough pin. And I had actually been practicing that shot last week, so I thought I would give it a go and it came off perfectly and it was nice to roll that putt in for eagle.   
   
 Q. You were sitting high on the leaderboard but you went for it anyway. Why didn't you lay up?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Oh, we're not here to lay up. It's a Major, you're going to have to take some chances at some point during the week if you want to win and that was a time where I thought I had to take a chance. And like I say, I've been hitting that shot well on the range and I thought it was a prime opportunity to give it a test there at the course and it came off.   
   
 Q. There were guys backing up all over the place today, but you shot a great round, what was the secret to it?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Secret? Good iron play and then putter was good. I made some nice putts. I made the putt on 1, the birdie putt on 2, just didn't get myself into too many bad positions. I feel like I've done a pretty good job of that over the last couple of days‑‑ except that one on 15 yesterday‑‑ but it's been pretty stress free for the most part, which is good course management.  
   
 Q. Finally, you contended here before in 2013. What did you learn from that?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Well I obviously have to play a little better than I did that day, but I learned that I don't have to play perfect golf, just got to take your chances when you get them. That day I didn't really take my chances. I had opportunities, but wasn't able to do it, so hopefully this week is the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT