MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You played in front of some big crowds out there. What was it like playing with Tommy?  
MARC LEISHMAN: It was good. He turned it on. No, we had a good day out there. It's nice playing on, in front of big crowds, on a stage like this, on a day like today. I mean it's beautiful out there. I played well, just that one hole I would like to have over again, but happy with the start.   
   
 Q. On that second shot in there, what was the yardage and club?  
MARC LEISHMAN: No, it was more the third shot. I hit a good third shot and it just ‑‑ obviously it was over clubbed, but you can't under club there. So yeah, I would like to have that shot again. But it wasn't ‑‑ probably if I had the shot again I wouldn't hit a different club or different shot, I would just try and hope I hit it straight. But that happens. Obviously doubles are never fun, but around here they can happen.   
   
 Q. I know it was all right to play with Tommy but with Tiger it was all hyped up about how tough that was for you to put up with, but you've been there long enough to put up with that now, isn't it?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I mean if I can't handle it now, I mean I never will. But the way I looked at it, if you're going to win here, you got to play in front of crowds like that, with energy like that. So I looked at it as a positive and preparation for later in the week. So hopefully we're both there on Sunday afternoon. But no, it was good. I enjoyed it. I'm good friends with Tiger and had a good day.   
   
 Q. The best part of the game out there for you? You drove the ball well.   
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I did. I drove the ball well‑‑ did everything pretty well, actually, just that one chip on 15. But, yeah, happy with where the game's at, my head's in a good spot, feeling good, feeling good, not letting things get away from me. It would have been easy to get pretty annoyed after 15 there, especially from where I hit the tee shot, but yeah, feeling good, body's feeling good, so I'm ready to go.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT