ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 18, 2018
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round out there today.  Very well played.  Nice bit of energy.  How sweet does a 67 feel on this golf course that's getting even firmer and faster now?  
MARC LEISHMAN: It's really nice.  I played well today.  I would like to have those two par-5s again, 6 and 12.  But no, I played good.  The course is going firmer, it always seems to firm up and get tough here on Sunday, so yeah, happy with the round.   
 Q.  Talk about what those guys face coming in those last few holes.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it's a really good finish for a tournament because there's very gettable par-5 if you hit your tee shot, tough par-3, and then that drive on 18 and the second shot to that pin is extremely difficult.  So you have to hit good shots to -- if you get a one- or two-shot lead with three to go it's certainly not over.  So, yeah, there will be some birdies out there and there will be a deserving champion at the end.   
 Q.  How special is it to win here at Arnold's place?  
MARC LEISHMAN: It's, obviously, to win one of the bigger events on the TOUR, it's a huge honor and whoever it turns out to be today will be extremely proud to wear the red cardigan and hold that big trophy.  So, yeah, they will certainly earn it today.   
 Q.  Just a comment on the final round, if we can.  Excellent play out there.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Really happy with it.  Disappointed with the two par-5s I bogeyed, I really couldn't do anything.  But that 3-putt on 6 I actually picked up something with my putting, so it turned out to be a positive.  I had the putter face closed and fixed it up and then started making some putts.  So yeah, happy with the finish, to play well on a tough golf course like that on the final round is good when it's tough conditions and payday, I guess.   
 Q.  And also to play well at a tournament you won the previous year in your title defense.  So nice to go out on a high note.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it is.  Early in the week I was playing pretty terribly, to be honest, so happy with that result.  I sorted out a couple of things as the week went on and gradually got better and better and really excited to put up a solid finish in the defense and leading into next week there's some good stuff and some positives for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT