SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 7, 2018
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I know a Saturday mulligan might be a different result, but a great comeback today.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Happy with the way I played today.  Yesterday was just one of those days, unfortunately.  When things don't go right you got to try to turn it around and I couldn't do it.  So I came out today with a positive attitude and it paid off.   
 Q.  Can you take a positive attitude out of here to play this week?  What's the horizon look like for you in terms of time off and gearing up and taking this fine form into the next couple tournaments?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I'll play next week, play the Sony.  And then a week off and head over to San Diego.  So, yeah, excited about the way I'm playing.  Just got to put four good rounds together.  Unfortunately it was only three this week, but certainly something to build on for the rest of the year.   
 Q.  Just to expand on that first one, is that the key that's left for you, I guess, making those bad days a little less bad?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, last year I feel like I did that pretty well and, obviously, yesterday was a different story.  It's hard when the weather's like that, the wind's blowing.  It's hard to not just let rounds get away from you.  Yeah, even growing up that can happen, you could wrap up a big number pretty easy in the wind.  So, yeah, that was disappointing, but I think that's certainly a key for the rest of the year.  And even just a couple of shots yesterday, just two extra shots today would have been very handy, not for the win, but just as far as position goes.  But, yeah, happy with the week.  Good start to the year after putting the clubs away for a month.  So I'm fresh and ready to go and excited for the rest of the year.   
 Q.  I know you'll have a target on TOUR.  What are you thinking at this moment?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Well, confidence is pretty high, game's in a good spot.  There's no reason why I can't go over there and put four good rounds together.  I played well there in the past.  Never really contended to win it, but I've had a lot of top-10s there, I don't know how many, or top-15s.  So, yeah, looking forward to that.  It's another great week off the golf course as well and obviously Torrey and L.A. as well.  I played well there and contended there.  So plenty to look forward to.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT