SENTRY TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 5, 2018
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Take the lead into today and follow it up with no bogeys on the card and in windy conditions again, I think it's a perfect script for 36 holes so far.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I was really happy.  Bogey-free around here in these conditions is pretty good.  I felt like I may have left a few out there, but it's pretty easy to do when it's blowing this hard on the greens, it's hard to make putts.  So, no, really happy with the start and hopefully I can keep this going on the weekend.   
 Q.  You didn't take advantage of the par-5s in that opening nine, but how do you pick your spots out here, you never know when you're going to get gusted on some of these holes, how do you keep your patience?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Exactly.  I mean, well, early in the year it's a lot easier to keep your patience now than it is in August or September.  But no, you just do as good as you can and as long as you do your best, that's the important thing to me.   
 Q.  Any tinkering for tomorrow?  
MARC LEISHMAN: No tinkering, no, just go up and get the body worked on, make sure I'm feeling good and be ready to go for tomorrow morning.   
 Q.  No bogeys on your card today.  Were you a little more defensive out there compared to the opening round?  The wind was a bit higher.  
MARC LEISHMAN: I don't know about defensive, I didn't hit any in quite as good of spots on a couple of holes where you could potentially attack, but no, it was tough, really happy with 4-under, four birdies, no bogeys.  It was tough on the greens, gusty, so, yeah happy with the start.   
 Q.  Considering you're coming off your best year in your career, now you have the lead heading into the weekend, what kind of attitude do you now bring towards these final 36 holes?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Well, you play to win.  Having a year like I did last year obviously my expectations are high.  I feel like when I'm in this position I need to finish it off, so that's what I'm planning on doing.  Hopefully I can play well and keep making some putts and get another win, but there's a lot of golf to play.   
 Q.  You played the last two rounds in the afternoon, you'll go off earlier tomorrow morning.  Are you anticipating a different golf course?  
MARC LEISHMAN: It will probably be a little bit softer for sure.  I mean the greens actually were pretty firm there the last few holes, the wind drys them out as the day goes on.  So, yeah, it will be a little different, but you still got to hit good shots and make putts, so hopefully we'll do that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT