TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2020
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Given how you played the last couple weeks, how were you able to kind of refocus and put together such a nice 66 here to open up the TOUR Championship?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, I mean, you put that stuff behind you.  I had two choices, really, either quit or try and get better.  So decided to try and get better and put the work in, which I've been doing the last month or so.  It just hasn't been paying off.  But it paid off today.
Q. What were the biggest things that you worked on since the BMW?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Just not making silly mistakes, getting myself into a lot of bad positions there and putted poorly.  But turned that around here today, putted great.  Just tried to be really smart on the course.  I didn't want to try and do anything silly, put myself into any really bad positions, so just tried to really focus on that, and yeah, turned out to be a good day.
Q. Is it tough when you go through a stretch of a few bad rounds to forget them easily, or for you can you put it aside and call it golf?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yes, that's golf.  I mean, it's a hard game, as I showed last week.  You take the good with the bad.  That's why you celebrate the winds, because you have patches where it's not an easy game.  Yeah, you can -- I've had bad rounds before, I've had bad spells before, I've come back from it.  I wasn't too worried about it.  It was obviously disappointing for it to happen then, but a lot to play for this week.  I'm really excited about the start.  That's probably the best start I've had around here in my fifth TOUR Championship, sixth maybe.
Q. Was there kind of a moment today where you kind of knew, I've got it today, I feel good today?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I think with the putter it was -- I holed a good birdie putt on 6.  It didn't feel like a great shot into 8, but turned out pretty good.  Yeah, it was just solid.  I didn't drive it as well as I would have liked, but my iron play was amazing.  I actually put a new set of irons in the bag this week.  They worked today and the putter was rolling good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT