THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 1, 2017
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously not the week that the Internationals wanted but you've certainly been a shining light of the team, do you think?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I don't know about that.  Disappointing week for us.  Obviously getting our butts handed to us like that.  We definitely gave it our best going up against great competition.  The Americans are strong, have the home crowd and played very well.  All credit to them.  It's hard to beat the best players in the world when they are playing well.   
 Q.  On a personal note, you definitely played well.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I played okay.  Two halves was probably not the outcome I was after.  Came up against some good competition and played guys who are playing well.  So if you're going to get beaten, you don't want to get beaten when you're playing poorly and get beaten by guys who are playing poorly.  You want to get beaten by guys who are playing well, and unfortunately that's what happened.   
Take the positives out of it.  You know, plenty of good things happened this year, and not the outcome we're after here, but we'll be back in two years and try to get them then.   
 Q.  How was that last tee shot?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I knew I had to hit a good shot.  It set up pretty good.  I was kind of in between clubs and smashed a 7-iron there.  Yeah, it was a good shot.  Unfortunately the putt didn't break.  Hit a really good putt.  Wasn't to be.  But a halve is certainly better than a loss.  They didn't win it on my game, which I'm pretty happy about.   
 Q.  Just talk a little about that match.  You were down early I think and kind of came back into it, and the last four holes, both you guys had chances.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, we did.  Definitely had chances.  Hit a good shot into 17 there, and just hit -- the putt was faster than I thought it was.  I didn't think it was that bad a putt, the first one.  The second one, hit a bad putt, so that was disappointing.   
Three good shots on 18, and disappointing not to win but I guess I was probably a little bit flat early on.  Just getting so far behind, I guess.  You know, it was just always going to be a tough day, and to be honest, I'm actually pretty happy to get out of it with a halve.  A win would have been very nice but from where I was after, six holes, I guess, it was not too bad.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT