THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 29, 2017
Jason Day
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JASON DAY: Phil hit a great shot in there and holed a putt.  You can't do anything about it other than just trying to hole that putt.  I had a pretty weak attempt on 17 and had a really good attempt on 16.  It was another tough match for both teams.  We played pretty well, especially on the front side.  The back side, we kind of got a little out of position, but you know, Marc held us in nicely.  He played some pretty spectacular golf.   
 Q.  One of the toughest putts you've ever faced in your life.   How did you feel over it?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, felt fine.  Just broke early.  One I'd like to have again but gave it my best crack.  Got beaten by two first-class players, so can't be too disappointed with that.   
 Q.  What do you think tonight is going to be like?  Obviously this isn't over.  
JASON DAY: We're obviously six points back.  So we definitely need a good day tomorrow.  I mean, obviously the 36 holes is going to be pretty big for both teams.  It's tough.  I mean, every time you tee it up out here, it feels like you're in a major championship on Sunday.  So it's mentally and physically taxing.  Tomorrow is going to be just that, and we need to kind of regroup here because obviously it's no good to be in this position.  But I think if we get some good rest tomorrow, we'll be fine.  We've got to just keep our heads up and try to inch our way at points.  That's all we can do.  Hopefully we get ourselves into contention by Sunday and see what happens.   
 Q.  I get the feeling you guys are fired up.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, hard not to be, playing in front of these crowds.  We've got plenty to play for, and none of us are going to give up.   
 Q.  Played so hard for each other today, tough pill to swallow on the last in?  
JASON DAY: Not too bad -- yeah, it sucks losing, but Phil hit a great shot in there and he hit a great putt.  I mean, that puts a lot of pressure on Marc to hole his putt.  I definitely felt it on 17.  That's why I had a pretty weak attempt at holing that putt.   
Leish held it together today.  He had a lot of good up-and-downs, crucial up-and-downs to keep us going up to this point.  I mean, if we can kind of rally the guys tonight.  We need to refocus and get back into contention on Sunday.   
 Q.  That type of day, you hung in there all day, and Phil was flushing it.  Just had to hang in there?  
MARC LEISHMAN: We had it going there for awhile.  We were a couple up through ten.  Yeah, I don't know, it is disappointing to miss that putt on the last and halve it again.  But you know, they played really well.  Hold our head up high and give it another crack tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT