BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2017
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a number you were able to put together on Day 1.  How did you take it so slow?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I hit the ball well and the putter cooperated.  Rolling the ball really well, feeling confident the way I rolled my club.   
It's nice when you can get on a run like this and hopefully I can keep it going.   
 Q.  You got off to a great start.  Thinking about 59.  You were on the birdie at 15 to get to 9-under.  Started thinking about it, the thought enter your mind?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I knew -- I guess yeah, it didn't really enter my mind to be honest.  I hit a good shot into 16 and just misread that putt and had one on 17, probably out of reach.  Happy with the day.   
 Q.  Ten birdies in any kind round of golf is breath-taking golf.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Played well.  Hit the ball really well which is obviously what you have to do to shoot that score.  Probably more importantly putted really well.  Made the opportunities that I gave myself and happy with it.   
 Q.  Obviously great playing in Boston, save the final 9 holes.  Something in your game came back.  At the start of the year you were putting lights out.  
MARC LEISHMAN: It gives you confidence.  When you play golf and all you're thinking about is making birdies it's a lot easier than trying to not make bogies.   
When your confidence is low and you're not putting great it puts more pressure on your entire game and you know when -- you know, when -- your putter is rolling well it takes pressure off your game.  All you're thinking about is making as birdies as possible.  It's nice to make ten of them today.   
 Q.  Couple of big par saves particularly on 17 as well to keep the momentum going.  Everyone is wearing the ribbons on the hat for sepsis.  Tell us about the importance of that this week particularly for your wife Audrey.  
MARC LEISHMAN: We're trying to get a win out there, probably easier to just go find out about sepsis and symptoms because it's one of those infections that if you know the symptoms, it's very, very treatable.  If you don't know the symptoms, it's more than likely going to kill you.   
Just two minutes of research knowing the symptoms that can possibly save your life or one of your family member's lives.  For a little bit of work could really be very beneficial for your family.   
 Q.  Obviously the improved health of Audrey, baby Eva coming into the world.  You're obviously playing well into The Playoffs.  Keep it rolling.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT