BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2017
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
AMANDA HERRINGTON: We'd like to welcome Marc Leishman into the Media Center after Round 1 of the BMW Championship.  Marc, 62 to start off the week following a solo 3rd at the Dell Technologies Championship.   
Marc, what's going right for you?   
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, game is feeling pretty good at the moment.  Striking the ball well from tee to green and then, you know, especially the putter I guess, you know, rolling the ball really well, making just all the putts you should and then couple of longer ones a round.   
So, feeling good.  Confidence is high and hopefully can just ride the wave.   
AMANDA HERRINGTON: We'll go ahead and take questions.   
 Q.  Marc, good playing.  I think you were 7-under through 11.  Did you think 59 at any point and have you done something like that in your career either in a tournament or just goofing around?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I have done that before actually -- I did think 59 in that round.  Today, it entered my mind for a little bit and then just the time that I thought about it before was actually in New Orleans couple of years ago and got a bit greedy and ended up bogeying a par 5.   
Just early in the tournament I feel like obviously anytime you can shoot 59 that's great but you don't want to go making some silly bogies and, you know, wrecking a really good round.   
So, yeah, I guess got a good head on my shoulders since then and learned a bit from that.  Try to do my job, do everything I could to keep making birdies and, you know, unfortunately those last three holes I couldn't but it's just -- it makes the game easier when all you're thinking about is making birdies.   
When your confidence is low and you're not putting as well or striking the ball as well you might not be thinking about birdies.  It's easier when you're concentrating on trying to make as many birdies as possible.   
 Q.  In that regard, how do you keep it out of your mind?  Does it lurch in the back, 59 notion or put it completely aside?  
 What's your secret on that, if you can?   
MARC LEISHMAN: I mean it is in the back of your mind.  I think anyone who starts going low would get that but, you know, we're here to do a job and I guess that's what I concentrate on, trying to play each hole as good as I possibly can, not the end result.   
When I played well in the past -- and today I feel like that's what I've done, not thought about the score before I finish because when you start thinking about the score before you finish that generally doesn't end too well.   
 Q.  Historically, do you have stretches of weeks on end where you feel like not a lot goes wrong?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I've had a few stretches like that.  I feel like the longer I've been on Tour and the longer of being a professional golfer there have been -- those stretches have been longer and not as far between the stretches.   
You know, early on it was -- might -- well, you know, I had a lean year -- yeah, like I said, it's been the stretches have been closer together and a little longer more recently.  Hopefully those stretches just blend together in the near future, not have -- been very streaky my whole career I feel like and I've been working hard to try and correct that.   
 Q.  Those stretches don't blend together for anybody, do they, Leish?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I don't think so, no.  You have to try and keep doing the right things and hope that you play well for long periods of time and every time that you do have a down you want to come out of that a little better than you were before you went into it.   
Look, anything, you have good times and bad times, not with just golf but life I guess you learn and hopefully come out of the hard times a better person or come out with golf with the hard times a better golfer.   
 Q.  So another question about compartmentalizing.  
 There's another tournament next week and sort of the bigger FedExCup tournament.  Have you sat down and looked at like what it would take for you to get into the Top-5 going into next week or do you have to put all that stuff out of your mind so you're not getting bogged down by math?   
MARC LEISHMAN: I'm pretty sure -- I did have a look at it, actually.  I think I probably need another 2nd or 3rd to get into the Top-5, I think.  I'm not a mathematician but I'm pretty sure a really good week.   
And then, you know, yeah.  I guess guys can win it from lower down.  Bill Haas was in the 20s, I believe so you can do it if you win the Tour Championship.   
It's similar to the situation today where you're trying not to think about the end result, just trying to worry about this tournament at the moment and then see how we end up.   
 Q.  What do you think when you see an old timer like Phil Mickelson going low like he did today?  
MARC LEISHMAN: To be honest, I didn't really look at the leaderboard so I don't actually know -- what did he shoot?   
 Q.  66.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah.  You kind of expect it from a player of his caliber so you're not -- certainly not surprised when you see Phil on the leaderboard.  Yeah.  Definitely not a surprise.   
AMANDA HERRINGTON: Any other questions?  Marc, thank you for joining us.   
MARC LEISHMAN: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT