DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2017
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What would you say was the turning point?  What changed on the front to the back?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Everything by the looks of it.  You know, it was obviously a disappointing back nine for me.  You know, got things going just the way I wanted to on the front and then a bad tee shot on 10.  There was some tough holes out there but certainly not ten shots tougher than the front nine.   
Yeah, it's disappointing.  But you know, with everything that's going on in the world, I mean, there's certainly worse things going on.  You know, you have to put things into perspective.  Obviously very disappointed.  But we're good to go.   
 Q.  Conditions change on you on the back nine?  
MARC LEISHMAN: You know, the wind got up a little bit, but not enough to shoot 5-over on nine holes of golf.  You know, didn't really make any putts on the back nine.  Didn't give myself enough chances, and missed a few greens.   
You know, it's one of those courses where if you play them well, you can do what I did on the front nine, and if you're just a little bit off, you can shoot 40 pretty quickly, which I showed.  In that respect it's a great golf course and certainly the best player on the week won.   
 Q.  What happened on 18?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I could have laid up.  But I've never been one to lay up.  I was thinking about holing the shot to be honest, try to give him something to think about.  Obviously didn't.  You know, disappointing bogey.  Not a great way to finish the tournament, but yeah, I'd rather go down swinging like that than laying up and at least give it a go.   
 Q.  You have two events here still to go, then you've got The Presidents Cup.  How do you feel about where you are right now?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, feel good.  Game is in a good spot, playing well.  Putter feels good, which is very important in match play.  Looking forward to getting up to Chicago and hopefully climbing up a little higher up the FedExCup standings, and then anything can happen in THE TOUR Championship.   
You know, it's going to be an exciting finish to the Playoffs.  Hopefully I'll be a part of it.   
 Q.  Playing well as you are obviously this week, would you rather have the next event be this coming week or is the week off a good thing?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I'm really happy to be going home for a few days, see the family, and just recharge the batteries.  That back nine took a bit out of me today.   
So go home, like I said, spend some time with the kids and the family be ready to go in Chicago.   
 Q.  What was clicking early on today?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Everything.  You know, I was hitting my irons really good.  Giving myself a lot of chances.  You know, obviously made a lot of putts.  You know, no really long ones but just all the putts that you should make.  It was really good.  I felt good on the back nine going to the back nine, and then obviously missing the fairway with an iron at 10 was disappointing.  Didn't get much better from there.   
So like I say, it's a disappointing end to the week, but can take a lot of positives out of it.   
 Q.  How much more difficult is the back compared to the front?  
MARC LEISHMAN: There's two par 5s on the front and a drivable par 4 and a lot of holes where you're hitting wedges, short iron into 9, short iron into 1, or wedge.  So if you are hitting it well, you can get a lot of chances.  And then the back nine, you've got a couple what feels like two or three 500-yard par 4s.  It's just tough.  It's just a hard nine.   
But the good thing about it is if you're playing well, you can still make birdies on them.  Yeah, it's longer.  It's maybe a little more exposed.  It's just a good course, two different nines.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT