DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2017
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Give us a quick review of your round?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, played good.  Got off to a good start.  Birdied three of the first four holes.  You know, from then on, you think you're making birdies, not just holding ton to make pars, which would probably be easy to do today.   
You know, struck the ball pretty well, but the putter was really good, which is what let me down last week.  So happy with all the work that I've put in early in the week.  It paid off today, and hopefully can keep the ball rolling the next few days.   
 Q.  Did you change putters this week?  
MARC LEISHMAN: No, same putter.  Just did a little bit more work on the speed, and you know, just charted the greens a little bit more than I probably would have otherwise here this week.  You know, came out here on Tuesday, didn't even bring my golf clubs.  Just came out here and rolled a few balls.   
Like I say, I felt really confident on the greens, which was good.  Not a big one for change.  I don't generally -- yeah, change putters and all that too often.  I've been using it for over a year now, so same one.  Feel like it's been working all year, so one bad week, I won't let it worry me too much.   
 Q.  How did you play 12?  
MARC LEISHMAN: How did I play 12?  Hit 3-wood.  I think I had about 200 meters in, 220 yards.  Hit 5-iron just off the back edge and chipped it on to about 5-foot.  Looked like I was going to have a tap-in.  Just kept rolling and then made a 5-footer for par.  That's a pretty tough hole now.  Very tough hole now.   
Then 13, you know, it's hard to hit that fairway.  You're sort of hitting to the -- yeah, I think it's good.  They have definitely made it more difficult but I think they are good holes.   
 Q.  How heard any locker room talk about players that are not that affectionate toward it?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Not really, actually.  Yeah, I don't really get into all that stuff.  I just play what we're given.  That's what we've been given this week, so just play on it and do as good as I can.   
Like I said, I think it is more difficult.  In the past, it has been more driver, wedge into 12, driver 9-iron, driver sand iron if you hit a good one away.  But now you're going to be hitting longer irons in there.   
 Q.  Have you ever publically complained about a hole or a course?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Oh, I'm sure I have at some point, yeah.   
 Q.  Why?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Good question.  (Laughs).  Publically, I'm sure I've complained about it, after I've bogeyed it or doubled it; stupid hole.  (Laughter).   
Like I say, most of the time, you've just got to work out -- you've just got to work out how to play it.  First time I played St. Andrews, I didn't love it that much.  I didn't like it at all to be honest.  But the more you play that, you learn where to hit it and you learn that you've got to take the trouble on to get good angles into greens, and now I love it.  It's one of my favorite golf courses.  I think for the guys that don't like it, they just have to work out how to play it and go from there.   
 Q.  Helps when all three guys in the group playing well?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, definitely.  I think we were all under par, all day, which is good.  I feel like that you can drag each other along like that, and on the other hand, you can drag each other down if you're all not playing great.   
Yeah, it was a good feeling in the group.  Yeah, good day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT