U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 16, 2017
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was the real U.S. Open test today?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it was definitely a lot more like a U.S. Open today than yesterday.  It was more U.S. Open-like.  The greens were a little quicker again, starting to firm up.  The 9th green is getting pretty firm there.
So, yeah, happy with the day.  Got a little bit of a rough start, but there's probably going to be more bogies out there today than what there was yesterday.  Needed to deal with those, and 4-back (Inaudible).
Q. You made some gutsy bogies today.  Does that give you confidence knowing you don't have to deal with those going into the weekend?
MARC LEISHMAN: It does.  Yeah, I said to Matty, the par putts are really important.  But when you have an eight- or a ten-foot bogey putt, that's probably more important.  You don't want to have any doubles any time.  Also a couple of bogey putts which, it's funny, it feels wrong saying this, but it kept momentum going while making a good bogey.  So, trouble out there on the 3rd or 4th hole there and had a good bogey putt, so I walked off that hole not feeling too bad.
Q. What is most challenging out there for you?
MARC LEISHMAN: I mean, everything's challenging.  You have to do everything well.  Obviously, driving it straight is important out there.  The pins were a lot tougher today.
Yesterday I felt like there were a lot of pins that if you hit a good shot, you could go at it.  Today I felt like I was hitting away from the pin a lot because of where they were.  There is a lot of trouble around the hole.
Yeah, it's a U.S. Open, so everything's pretty challenging.  It feels weird saying off the tee is the hardest part because the fairways are a lot wider than normal, but it's probably more important to hit them than a lot of over.
Q. Is this the best you've felt in a U.S. Open?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I think so.  It's definitely the most comfortable I've felt on a course, on a U.S. Open course.  I haven't had a whole lot of success at U.S. Opens so far, but I felt like this course has done pretty well for me.
Well, I finished top 20 last year at Oakmont, but that gave me confidence.  Obviously playing well early in the year gives me confidence.  But, yeah, I feel pretty comfortable, but there is a lot of trouble out there, so you've got to keep your foot on the pedal.
Q. You said slow start.  Any reason for that?
MARC LEISHMAN: A little bit of a sleep-in this morning.  Yeah, I can't even remember turning my alarm off, actually.  Struggled getting to sleep and struggled waking up, so in a bit of a rush this morning.  But got here with plenty of time.  But happy to shoot a good round after the fun of rushing around in the morning.
Q. Are you a scoreboard watcher, per se, or are you focused on your world in a tournament like this?
MARC LEISHMAN: No, I'll watch it.  I like to know where I am.  Obviously, you know, there are a few guys going low out there today.  I think there's two or three guys at 7-under.  It will be interesting to see what Rickie does this afternoon, if he can run away a little bit or we'll see how it goes.
Yeah, I'll definitely keep an eye on it, but it's early in the tournament, so you don't take a whole lot out of it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT