THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 21, 2020
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. I hardly ask anyone who missed the cut to comment but it was so bizarre to see 11-under through 11 holes.  I wanted to get someone who has seen a lot, see had a they thought?
MARC LEISHMAN:   We were pulling for him.  59 didn't even seem like a question there for awhile.  Wondering what the lowest score ever anyone shot.
Q. Cross your mind?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, he had it going for sure.  Some tough holes on the back nine, though.  Yeah, it was the easiest 11-under through 11 that you could think of.  It's not like he made any bombs.  He hit good shots and made the makeable putts, so it was a pretty impressive round.
Q. Was it fun?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Yeah, I put myself out of the tournament yesterday so I was just out there to try to find something for next week, but yeah, it was fun to watch.  Like I say, some impressive golf.
Today I couldn't do it.  I got off to a decent start but a lot of the time you can feed off that and find something.  Seeing him hit that many good shots, gave me something to strive for next week.
Q. Where are you in the FedExCup?
MARC LEISHMAN:   14, I was before the week.
Q. What do you think it's going to be like going to a place you probably have never seen before?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Definitely it will be interesting.  They have held a U.S. Open there.  Expecting it to be tough, and even though I didn't score that well today, I still feel like I found a little something in my game that I can take to next week.  Always looking for something.  Golf is not always an easy game, and I think it's how you handle yourself when you struggle like I am at the moment, always looking for something.  So I was definitely looking for something out there, and hopefully I found it.
Q. Not a major, but do you do anything different next week, because it's a place you've never seen?
MARC LEISHMAN:   I'll get there Monday, probably try to get to the course Monday afternoon so I can spend an extra half a day or extra day sort of mapping the greens and just working out where you can hit it, where you can't hit it.  Resting up this weekend, as well.  Normally I'd be getting there late Sunday night, or hopefully you're getting there late Sunday night.  Try and have a day off Monday and into it Tuesday but I'll have a bit of extra time so hopefully I'll use that to my advantage.
Q. Can you name the Aussie who finished second there?
MARC LEISHMAN:   Mathew Goggin?
Q. Leaney.
MARC LEISHMAN:   Right.  There you go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT