U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 15, 2017
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When you see a leader (inaudible), does that kind of change your outlook?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I think so.  Waking up and seeing Rickie, I think he was 6-under after 10 or 11, something like that.  So I knew something was up.
The course was obviously pretty soft after the rain we've had.  But the course is still tough if you don't play well.  I spent time in the fescue today.  Hopefully I can drive it a little better.  But definitely not U.S. Open-like.
Q. It's nice to have your afternoon in, though, with the morning round still to come.  Are you optimistic about that?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, definitely.  The things started to speed up a little bit and fairways started to run out a bit.  Greens sped up, a lot quicker today than they were in the beginning of the week.  So that made a difference.  But it would be nice to get out there on some fresh greens in the morning.  Hopefully the wind will be down.
Q. You must have done something (inaudible) particularly stood out.
MARC LEISHMAN: Short game and putting were really good.  I had a lot of very makeable birdie chances and my iron play was good.  I didn't drive it great but when I did miss it I was in not that bad a spot.  So probably 7 and 8 was disappointing.  But probably the iron play.
Q. The fact that you weren't at your absolute best and still shot 4-under must give you tremendous confidence going forward if you can just tighten it up?
MARC LEISHMAN: Absolutely.  If I can drive it like I did a couple of weeks ago at Memorial, it will go a long way to shooting under par scores.  Hopefully I can keep hitting my irons and wedges the way I have been and tighten up all the tee stuff, the driver (indiscernible) I missed with a 3-iron on 14.
So, yeah, I've got some improving to do, but I don't mind that.  I don't mind shooting 4-under.
Q. (Inaudible.)
MARC LEISHMAN: Where was I?  4, 6 -- one of them I birdied -- where else?  17, 14.  There was a few.  But early in the week I said to my caddie, anytime we hit it in here, we need to make sure we putt for par.  I didn't try and get greedy out of it.  Most of the time I had a lob wedge out, just trying to get back in the fairway and give myself a chance.  It worked.
Q. Five birdies today.  Are you feeling good about the game and your chances here?
MARC LEISHMAN: I'm feeling good.  Obviously there's a lot of golf to play.  But the U.S. Open hasn't always been my best golf moment.
But as far as U.S. Open courses go, I feel like this one suits me the best.  We're going -- you need a little imagination, hitting it in the right spots.  I really enjoy this golf more than just having to hack out.  It's more what I grew up on in Australia.  And I tend to play better on this type of golf course, so you enjoy what you play well on.
Q. On 18, were you surprised to see the scores?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yes and no.  With the greens as receptive as they are, and especially the first two holes on the front nine, you can get off to a good start and probably got less than -- it's a reachable par-4, and you're pitching -- there are definitely chances out there.  But if you're off line, it's rough.  It's good.
Q. 18 seemed to be playing the easiest?
MARC LEISHMAN: They have a couple of tees up.  And then I think the pins are pretty receptive, you can run something up there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT