MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2017
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Start off with No.7. I thought you heard you say 137 with a 9‑iron?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, 137 meters, 150 yards. Obviously you hit anywhere past the hole there and to the left and as long as it doesn't go long you've got a chance. It was a nice one to hear‑‑ it was nice to hear the roar.   
   
 Q. Haven't had any there in a few years, and back‑to‑back days we hear them. Chappell.   
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah.   
   
 Q. Another sort of adventure around Augusta this year?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, obviously a disappointing week, but a few more bad positions and where not to hit it. The hard conditions the first two days, you play conservative, and yesterday just a bad stretch of holes. And I was hoping to make enough birdies.   
   
 Q. The course you saw this morning, what do you think is the lowest someone could go? How far back could someone come from, do you think?  
MARC LEISHMAN: You know, I played Westwood yesterday, he's at 1‑under, he's not out of it. There's a lot of pins in bowls. If you're hitting good shots you can have a lot of short birdie putts. Possibly as far back as even, if they had a really low one, which I think could be out there.   
But again this morning the greens were‑‑ you could see the greens changing color as the day went on. They were moist this morning and then they were dry, dry this afternoon.   
   
 Q. What would a good number be for a winner?  
MARC LEISHMAN: The guys‑‑ I think if you can get to 9‑under you'd have a pretty good chance. But if one of the leaders‑‑ one of the guys at 6 has a really low one, they could pretty easily‑‑ not easily, they could separate themselves for sure.   
   
 Q. I remember you saying when Audrey had her health scare that Charley and Stacy sent you a food basket. We don't really know that much about Charley. I would imagine you're friends with him that he would reach out to you like that.  
Can you give us any kind of insight into his personality, his temperament?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Great guy. Obviously a family man. Just a nice guy. After Bay Hill he sent me a text the next day saying congratulations. That's nice, he doesn't have to do that. They're a great family. Like you said, they sent us a basket of fruit. It was one of those Edible Arrangements. That was pretty much all I ate for about a week. So it was chocolate covered strawberries and fruit.  
That is the sort of thing he doesn't have to do, but it's a great thought.   
   
 Q. You had a front row seat when Scott won here before. What do you think it would mean if Scotty can win again?  
MARC LEISHMAN: It would be huge. He knows what he's able to do now. He's obviously playing really well. He's only three back, so he's right in it. I don't know how far ahead of the leaders he's going to be, but he could possibly be 6‑under after two holes. But it would be massive if he could do it. A lot of work, but someone's got tohave the Green Jacket at the end of the day.  
   
 Q. Assuming he does do it, what would that mean for Australia and for him?  
MARC LEISHMAN: It would be massive. Probably less pressure this time with the Masters. No matter who wins it, it's going to mean a lot, whether Phil Mickelson gets his fourth or Justin Rose gets his first or Rickie Fowler, whoever it might be, just a massive tournament and one that everyone wants to win.   
   
 Q. Will you watch?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yes, I'll be in the couch.   
   
 Q. Why do you think that the Masters, especially over the last six or seven years, has had such a good, solid leaderboard like on Sunday, all the cream rises to the top? Why do you think that is here more than other Masters?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Because your shots have to be so precise. And then if you hit a great iron shot to the right spot you've got to hit the putt and match it up with perfect line, perfect speed. If you're not one of the best players in the world you can't do that every hole. You've got to be hitting perfect shots, otherwise‑‑ even with the pins involved today, if you're not hitting good shots and you end up outside those holes you're struggling for par.  
Yeah, you just have to play great golf, really precise.   
   
 Q. Do you like it because of that?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, definitely. If you're playing well it's awesome. And if you're not playing well, it's generally a short week here.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT