WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2017
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Things are pretty good in Leishman land?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, having a good week or so.  Hopefully we can keep that going the next couple of days.  And I got to spend the morning in bed, unfortunately, because of what happened with Jason.  I wish him and his family all the best, for sure.   
 Q.  You've got Phil Mickelson tomorrow, one of the great trash talkers.  How do you prepare for that?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I'll have to work on my trash talking, I guess.  Practice with the kids.  I didn't know that.   
Yeah, that's going to be a really tough match.  He's obviously playing really well.  He obviously had a really big win today.  Keep it the way I have been, and make some putts.   
 Q.  An interesting day for you, you had to sit in the hotel wondering if you'd get a game.  You finally got a game and you took advantage.  You won the playoff here.  Was it an anxious day or indifferent day?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Nothing bad was going to happen.  Pat was either Pat going to beat Lee and I was flying home tomorrow morning or I was going to get to play golf and try to advance.  I got the latter and advanced.  So it was a great day.   
 Q.  Played the first hole beautifully without making the birdie and then you got here on the second and did the same thing.  Was it a lovely warmup, was it just a continuation of everything you've done this week and last?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, three good shots on the first.  Hit the putt right where I wanted to and somehow missed.  It happens, unfortunately, in golf.  Two good shots into 2.  And pretty big breaking putt.  I'm really happy to see that go in after the first one didn't.   
 Q.  It says you have Phil Mickelson in the knockout fight.  He's been playing beautifully.  Only 42 holes needed for him.  But you're probably the more rested given the fact that you've only played two of the matches?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it's been a restful week, I guess, which is kind of nice after last week.  It was obviously pretty busy.  And early this week was busy.   
Phil is going to be a really tough match.  Obviously I have to play great to beat him.  But I feel that my form is good.  And one of us is going to win, I hope it's me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT