ISPS HANDA WORLD CUP OF GOLF MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 4, 2016
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARK WILLIAMS: Marc will be making his way down to Australia to Kingston Heath for the ISPS Handa World Cup of Golf, in a team with Adam Scott over Thanksgiving weekend, which is November 21-27 at Kingston Heath.
Thanks for joining us and making some time this evening.  If I could ask you to open up with some comments about being selected by Adam to play as a team for Australia, and what that might feel like playing for your country, rather than playing for a team of Internationals at The Presidents Cup which you've done the past couple of events.
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I mean obviously very excited to get the call by Scotty and to be representing Australia.  You know, it was obviously pretty disappointing not to be able to go down to Rio for other reasons.
But really, really excited to be playing Kingston Heath, which is one of my favorite courses in the world in pretty much the city that I virtually grew up in and playing with a great mate of mine.
So feel bad for Jas, not being able to make the trip down because of injury and all that.  But I guess with every -- it's unfortunate but I'm planning on trying to make the most of it and represent Australia well and try and retain the trophy.
MARK WILLIAMS: Before we open it for questions, can you just tell us how that call came about?  Did it come from Adam specifically, and when did it come to you?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it was probably a few days before he announced it, that he called me.  So obviously that was exciting to get that call, and something I've always wanted to do is represent Australia.
Yeah, that was just -- I was really excited.  I said to my wife, Audrey, it's something I've always wanted to do.  And to do it anywhere in the world would be amazing; but to do it on one of my favorite courses in virtually my hometown is going to be a great week and hopefully we can do Australia proud.
MARK WILLIAMS: We understand you have represented Australia a number of times as an amateur, but this will be the first time as a professional.
Q. One of the most potentially iconic photos in Australian golf history is when Scotty makes the putt at the Masters, and you're fist-pumping in the background.  Can you tell us a little about that and your relationship with Scotty, and how that will help you guys down there at Kingston Heath?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I mean, we both had our goal that day of slipping on the green jacket.  Yeah, once my chances had sunk in, I really wanted to do everything I could to help Scotty, and it kind much felt a bit like I team there towards the end, trying to keep his mind off things, and not, you know, coach him but just try and be as helpful as I could.
But that was great, and then obviously to see that putt drop, I mean, I did exactly what probably every other person in Australia was doing at the same time.  It's just I happened to be on the green with a 4-footer left myself.
Yeah, that was awesome, and it's going to be great to spend four days with Scotty on the course.  We've become really good friends over the last few years, and you know, I was pumped to get the call that I was going to be partner after Jas had the bad back.
Yeah, it was exciting and I really can't wait to get down to Melbourne and get things underway.
Q. Were you surprised when he screamed out, "Come on, Aussie," as his actual response there in an individual event, and does that speak volumes for his country and what Australians are like in team events?
MARC LEISHMAN: It does, definitely.  The first time I heard it, or the first time that he said it when he holed the putt, I couldn't hear it because there was thousands of people screaming.  It was the loudest roar I ever heard.  But then when we gave the high-five, I certainly heard it that time; he screamed it right in my face.
That was really cool to be a part of that.  Thank God he won the playoff, otherwise it would have been not -- it would have been a whole different story, that whole situation.  But yeah, that was a pretty amazing day.
Q. I wanted to get a gauge on what you're doing at the moment playing-wise.  You didn't get on the course in China; you played in Malaysia, and when you had not played before that.  Wanted to get a gauge of your playing schedule and fitness and how everything is going at the moment.
MARC LEISHMAN: Yes, I go to Mexico Monday, actually, down to the OHL Classic at Mayakoba.  I'll play that and head back to Virginia Beach for a couple of days before I get to Melbourne.  I land in Melbourne on Sunday before the World Cup, play obviously the World Cup, and then the Australian PGA.  And then I'll have a spell before going to the Sony, well, Hawai'i, so hopefully two weeks after a good week next week hopefully.
As far as my health goes, it's good.  Back's the best it's been for quite a while, touch wood.  Playing without any pain, yeah, things are going well.  Game is in pretty good shape.
Played well up in Malaysia and didn't quite get into China.  But yeah, I'm happy with where I'm at and looking forward to, like I said before, getting down to Melbourne and hopefully retaining that trophy with Scotty.
Q. And when the call first came about coming to play with Scotty, what were your plans originally?  Were you coming down for the PGA anyway?  You sort of seem to come home every year once a year for sort of one event.  What were your plans and when did you sort of start thinking about throwing this into your schedule, this event?
MARC LEISHMAN: Well, obviously if I was going to get selected, I was always going to play.  It's something I always wanted to do.  Definitely wouldn't miss this if at all possible.
I was planning on -- well, I was kind of up in the air.  I was kind of planning on playing the Australian Open, the World Cup -- sorry, Nedbank, Australian Open, World Cup, and then possibly PGA.
But with the World Cup, it was too many events in a row, so I changed my schedule a little bit to playing México, then the World Cup and the PGA.  Just changed things around a little bit.
Q. Is there a reason -- when you're working out your schedule, has it got anything to do with your fitness levels or the amount you want to play or spend time with the family, or sort of throwing things around like that?
MARC LEISHMAN: No, fitness is fine.  Family is a factor.  We're having Christmas in Australia this year.  So to come too much earlier would be a bit too much time off school for the kids and all that.  I don't like spending more than two weeks away from the boys at one time, so that was a factor.
Obviously not playing the Nedbank is a really tough decision, not defending that, but I really wanted to be in top form for the World Cup, because that's a big priority, and you never want to let a partner down by not playing great.
Like I said, it's something I've always wanted to play, so I wanted to give myself the best chance to play and play as good as I possibly can there.
Q. When is the last time you played Kingston Heath, can you remember?
MARC LEISHMAN: It was 2009 actually.  The year Tiger --
Q. The year Tiger won the Masters?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, that's the last time I played there.  It's been a while.  But it's always been one of my favorite courses in the whole world.  So really looking forward to that.  I've got great memories there.  I remember playing the Port Phillip Invitational down there, the amateur tournament, and always really get excited to go and play there.
MARK WILLIAMS: In 2009 when Marc did play there, he was the PGA TOUR Rookie of the Year that year in 2009.
Q. You were speaking about Kingston Heath and just how much you love that course, and that comes through when you're having a chat with us.  There's plenty of other really nice courses around Melbourne, obviously the Sandbelt, but down in Geelong (ph).  While you're in town will you have a chance to come down and maybe play some of the courses down here?
MARC LEISHMAN: I'll be playing more than a fair bit.  Mostly down there.  I'll played the Sands (ph) down there, it's a great golf course.  Obviously Barwon Heads is one of the best courses around, as well.  Those greens are particularly memorable.  Yeah, Thirteenth Beach is a great golf course; Lonsdale, there's so many down there.  But probably won't get a chance to play there, just with family time.  And thinking about maybe taking a trip down to Barnbougle.
So yeah, we'll see how we go with time and all that.  But a lot of courses to choose from and yeah, more time would be great to try and get a chance to play more.
Q. So probably not this time around?
MARC LEISHMAN: Probably not, no.
Q. And what about, is there any chance at all that you might be around for the Victoria Open in February next year?  I know you have such a busy schedule and that's probably not high on your list of priorities, but if you got that phone call from Golf Victoria, is there a chance you would consider coming and playing in that next year?
MARC LEISHMAN: It's a tough one obviously with the schedule over here.  We've got all the tournaments that you obviously need to play well to keep your card and do all that.  Especially early in the season, you want to get a good head start.  Yeah, it will be difficult for me to get back for that one, unfortunately, as much as I'd like to.
Q. Obviously you had some really important reasons for not attending Rio, but I just wonder how you felt when you were sitting watching that, and obviously with Marcus Fraser doing well early on there?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I mean, I was really, really happy to see Fras do well.  That was obviously a really tough decision, as well.  Any time you get a chance to represent your country, you obviously want to do it.
I've always been one to putt my family first, and you know, if it putts my wife's health at risk to go somewhere, I won't do it.  That was a hard one.  But I was really happy with how everything went.  The guys who did go down there said they hardly saw a mosquito and all that.
But sitting down watching it, it was great.  Great seeing Fras contend and obviously it was a really good finish with Rosey and Stenson there at the end.  Went well.  Hopefully I'll get a chance to represent Australia in 2020 in Japan.
Q. Does it feel like this World Cup is a bit of an opportunity to sort of make up for that?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yes, for sure.  When I got the call off Scotty, like I said before, I was really excited to be able to get the chance to represent Australia and definitely want to try to play well to make up for that.  It would be great to defend that trophy again.
Q. Just wanted to ask, it's such a great occasion or a big occasion for us golf lovers down here when you guys are playing in the US and the World Cup is back, Scotty comes back every year, you come back every year; we've lost the Masters down here and this tournament replaces this.  And with the PGA TOUR pushing into Asia and opening up an office, they are clearly making a statement that they want to play more tournaments in Asia.  What about the push to get a PGA tournament in Australia?  I mean, there's enough of you guys playing well in the US.  Obviously the world No. 1 is an Aussie.  Is there a push among the players or do you hear any noise at all for any opportunity for an event on a regular basis?
MARC LEISHMAN: Like you said, they have got more events going into Asia.  They have got the one in Korea, China, Malaysia.  It seems to be trending that way.  I'm hoping so, especially with Jas being the No. 1, Scotty being as successful as he is, former No. 1, and wouldn't surprise me at all if he got back there.
Yeah, it's something that I wouldn't be at all surprised if something happened in Australia in the next few years.  But hopefully all the Australian guys, Jas can keep playing well, Scotty can keep playing well, I can make a push further up towards that Top-10, and you know, really try and get a really big event and some big names down to Australia to play an event.  That would be huge for Australian golf.
Q. With the schedule just packed now, with the limited off-season, do the players have a say at all in the scheduling, or are the events just running independently?  You obviously have the PGA running them and the World Golf Championships; do you have any say at all in the scheduling?  Can you get together and say, we reckon there should be an event here or there, or is it directed by where they make them?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, well, it depends on the money I guess, the sponsors.  You need more than one sponsor to put on a big tournament, the sponsors, the organizers.  They decide where they are.  The players, if there's a tournament that gets put on, we can decide whether we want to play it or not play it and go from there.
I think the more tournaments, the better.  Especially if you can get some exposure around the world, there's no reason why there couldn't or shouldn't be an event in Australia that's on the PGA TOUR.  You've got them in Asia, Canada, there's going to be one in México next year.  It's definitely becoming more global.  So hopefully we can get a big event down in Australia in the near future.
Q. And just obviously the World Cup, it's been thrown back into the schedule after a three-year absence.  Is there genuine excitement among the rest of the players about the World Cup?  Looking on paper, it's a pretty good field.  Is there genuine excitement about this event, especially for players who don't get to represent their country and who can't play Ryder Cup and who can't play Presidents Cup?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, definitely.  I've spoken to the Canadian guys that are playing, Graham DeLaet and David Hearn, and they are really excited to get down there.  They both love -- well, Graham has been to Melbourne before; David hasn't.  They have heard awesome things about the golf course.
I think Danny Willett's playing for England, is that right?  And Lee Westwood; they have the current Masters Champion there, that's a great draw card.  Rickie Fowler and Jimmy Walker; Rickie has become quite the world traveler and all the kids love him.  He's a huge draw card.  Another major champion, Jimmy.
Yeah, everyone is genuinely excited to get down there.  They have heard such good things about Kingston Heath and I think it's a mixture of everything:  Great city, great golf course, big event and representing your country.  Yeah, I can't wait to go there.
Q. And just talking to Scotty about how you might play and that sort of stuff, will you get together beforehand, or will you just wait till you get to town to work on your plans or are you talking about it already?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, we had dinner a couple of times in Malaysia, last week, actually, and we had a bit of a chat about it.  We're definitely thinking about it early on.  It's a very important event for both of us.  We both want to play well and represent Australia well, and yeah, we've been having a bit of a chat about how the course might be set up, and strategy and all that, which tees we might be hitting off.
Yeah, we are certainly thinking about it already.
Q. Rusty sort of start there, but playing alternate-shot a lot more than the last version of the World Cup obviously, that will be a crucial part to this event.  What do you think your strengths are in terms of putting yourself together with Scotty?
MARC LEISHMAN: I think we should combine fairly well.  He's got -- obviously drives the ball very well.  I've got a good iron game and my short game is pretty good.
I think just a matter of keeping it on the short stuff around the -- I'm assuming that the greens are going to be fairly firm, as they always are there.  Going to be tough coming in out of the rough, so if you have to be a little less aggressive off the tee, just to give yourself a chance, that could be an option.  But we haven't got down to which holes of how to think about it.  But yeah, it's going to be -- see how we're feeling on the day, and try and do what's going to hopefully work the best.
Q. My question kind of follows on from the format.  I just sort of wondered, I guess with returning to this format, it's sort of more -- do you feel that it's more of like a team environment, and is that something that you really kind of enjoy?  I mean, I guess it's quite different to sort of be the format that they played at Rio and I could see that the crowd are probably going to be more involved; is that what you're expecting?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yes, definitely.  I think it's a great format.  Just because that is a true team event with the foursomes and the fourball.  We play four-round tournaments, 72-hole stroke-play every week.  So to be able to play all four days with your partner, have the crowd -- obviously the crowd behind you, it's going to be a lot of fun and something we don't get to do virtually except for The Presidents Cup every two years.
So yeah, something that we're both, you know, looking forward to, and I know both Matty and Steve, our caddies, are looking forward to, as well.
MARK WILLIAMS: Appreciate everybody's time.  Marc, we appreciate you making the time to do this call for us this evening in the United States and tomorrow morning in Australia.  Thank you, everybody.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT