ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 17, 2017
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You made twice the amount of feet of putts today as opposed to yesterday, how did you get ahold of the greens?  Just felt good?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Holed a cup of good ones early.  Nice one on 1 and a good one on 3.  Yeah, just felt good.  I could feel my hands today.  It was a bit chilly yesterday morning.  So it was nice to get out in some good conditions and give myself some chances.  I gave myself a lot of chances out here.  I think I only missed one or two greens in regulation today.  So it was a pretty solid day.   
 Q.  It looked like everything clicked.  Did it feel that way from driver to putter?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it felt good.  I hit a lot of good shots to the target, to where I wanted to hit them to and played pretty smart, which is what you got to do when it firms up around here.  So, hopefully, I can do that the next couple of days and see what happens.   
 Q.  Playing smart delivered a 66.  Tomorrow, are you going to continue playing smart?  What do you hope to kind of grind out as the weekend continues, just a couple of good scores?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, hopefully, do exactly what I did today.  Whether I hole as many putts on the weekend, who knows.  But if I can just give myself as many chances as I did today, pretty much every birdie chance I had was looking at making and not just trying to get it close or to 2-putt it.  So, yeah, it was a good to feel like that over the ball and hopefully that can continue.   
 Q.  And a lot of people, some of the world's best players are struggling on this course.  How did you feel you kind of played better than the rest today?  What did you do right?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I think I missed my first fairway on number 15.  So if you can drive it on the fairway around here, that's really important, especially with the greens the way they are, pretty firm and very quick.  So that's a start.  And then, obviously, you got to try and leave yourself uphill putts and then you got to make them.  So it was everything that clicked today, it's nice to play well and get a good score out of it.  I feel like a little bit this year I played pretty well and haven't got a lot out of it.  So, it's nice to finally do that.   
 Q.  Going to ask, how would you assess your season so far, because you just answered that question.  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it's been, I've been playing well, better than the results have shown.  A lot of 20th to 25th finishes.  So I've been really close.  I haven't played how I want to, on Sunday, especially.  But that's just, try and fix that this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT