THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Happy, mate, a 69?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I'm happy.  It was a good day.  It was really, really tough early on with that rain and wind.  Then it died a little bit when the rain stopped and it got up again towards the end, and pretty much every hole on the back nine there was straight off the left.  That's a tough wind for a right-hander.
I played really well.  Gave myself a lot of chances.  Again, didn't make a whole lot, but felt my speed's been a little bit weak on the 10, 15-foot birdie putts, so I tried to change that and hole some putts tomorrow.
Q. The sun came out as you walked up the fairway.
MARC LEISHMAN: It did.  It got hot there.  I was in the waterproofs and started getting really warm.  But who knows what it's going to do this afternoon.  Obviously we didn't get the great part of the first and second day, but around for the weekend and anything can happen on Saturday, Sunday.
Q. The weather forecast where you'll be in the draw tomorrow, you might have the best of tomorrow to make a move.
MARC LEISHMAN: Hopefully.  Yeah, that would be nice.  I'd like to do what I did last year and put a low one out there on Saturday and try and get myself within distance of the leaders.  At the moment I'm a long way back, but probably -- at 3-over after the first round, and then to play in these conditions and shoot under par I'm really happy.
Q. Considering your last two years, how much confidence do you have that you can go on a run here and get a really good decision?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, obviously you still have to do it, but I've done it before.  I've played really well the first two days.  Yeah, I hit a couple of bad shots yesterday that cost me doubles, but today I had a lot of birdie chances that just looked like going in and didn't.
So like I said, I'm happy with where I'm at as in my game.  I'm not happy with being just inside the cut line.  But if it does what it's predicted to do and a little calmer tomorrow morning and pick up, who knows what might happen.  I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing and try to give myself pots at it and keep the bogeys off the card, which I was able to do today, which is big in links golf.  You can hit a bad shot and make bogeys and worse really quickly.  So to keep the bogeys off on a day like today, that gives me confidence.
Q. Remember last year at The Open the day that you went low, there was a little bit more aggression than the first two days.  Is that something you might be doing tomorrow?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, there's just nothing to lose.  You can't win The Open if you're sitting at home on the couch on Saturday and Sunday.  You just have to get there and then, obviously, I'm in a pretty similar position as I was last year, long way back.  Nothing really to lose, so, yeah, I'll probably play a little more aggressive, but still conservative aggression.  You don't want to do anything stupid.  But, yeah, I'll have to make a lot of birdies on the last two days if I'm going to contend again.
Q. Were you only one inside the cut line last year (inaudible)?  Do you remember?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, I think it was 1.  I think a lot of the stories have been from 1 inside the cut lines, so I guess I was.  I don't know, yeah, that'll do.
So hopefully, like I said, who knows what's going to happen this afternoon and what it will do to the scores, but that back nine was hard.  So I don't know what the weather's meant to do this afternoon, if it's meant to start raining or what.  But if the rain does get up and the wind stays here, it's going to be brutal this afternoon.
Yeah, you know, we'll see.  I'll be playing the weekend.
Q. Now do you go back to where you're staying and watch the rest of the guys play?
MARC LEISHMAN: I would if it was on TV in our hotel.  We haven't got the Tour de France or the golf.
Q. Go to a pub somewhere?
MARC LEISHMAN: I know, it could be dangerous, but yeah.  I'll probably just go over and have something to eat in player dining and the golf will be on down there, so I'll watch a bit of that.  But early dinner and early to bed again, because I'll probably have a -- it won't be a 4 o'clock tee time or anything like that.  So we'll try and get a good night's sleep and hit a low one tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT