U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2016
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was your approach been on No. 2, the drivable par 4?
MARC LEISHMAN: No. 2.  I've been laying it back so I don't have to worry about spinning it off the green.  You get too far up there and have a [indiscernible], there's a good chance it will zip straight off the front.  Probably going to hit a 5 iron off the tee there today, and hit a 9 iron into the green.
Q. Is that going to be your game plan the rest of the weekend?
MARC LEISHMAN: It depends on where the pin is and where the tee is.  But maybe if they'll move the tee forward and you can actually get it on the green.  I'd like to be on the green.  See how it goes and what the day brings.
Q. Talk about your round.  Do you feel real good?  That number out there's always good, right?
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, feeling good.  The game is in a pretty good spot, and my short game is working pretty well.  I hit a couple of loose shots, but I think everyone's going to do that out here.
Going to only get tougher over the weekend.  So excited about being thereabouts after two rounds and hopefully I'll be right there at the end of Sunday.
Q. How did the course play today compared to yesterday?
MARC LEISHMAN: It was pretty similar, I think.  The greens were -- they were quick without being really quick.  Ball's staying in a few spots probably normally it wouldn't stay.  It was gettable, especially with no wind.  The wind is starting to get up a little bit now, so it will probably dry it out.  But it was there for the taking if you're hitting good shots.  If you're not hitting good shots, you can make big numbers.
Q. What's going to be most important for you moving forward now?  What are the perils of Oakmont, if you like, moving forward?
MARC LEISHMAN: There's a lot of perils of Oakmont.  Yeah, you've obviously got to hit it on the fairway because the rough's so long.  There's virtually no chance from the rough.  Finding the fairway and hitting good iron shots.  It's really important to leave yourself in pretty good spots.  If you can shape it into the hills and hold it there, that's important.
But then, of course, you've got to hole the putts.  So it's a Major.  You've got to have every part of your game on and you're going to get punished pretty severely if you're missing one part of your game around here.
Q. What's your approach been on No. 8, the longest par 3 in Open history?
MARC LEISHMAN: I hit a 2 iron there today just to try to land it over that bunker.  Get it four yards short and roll it up on to the green.  It would have been soft.  You have to take a little more club.  Normally you could land that a lot shorter.  But just trying to get something to run up on the front edge.
Q. What was the key to the early start today?  You were a couple under for the first few holes?  What helped you get going?
MARC LEISHMAN: Hit a good shot into 2.  Made a really good putt.  Had a really fast downhill there.  And then made a good putt on, I think it was, 5.  So then I was hitting my irons in spots where you could actually make putts, which is pretty hard to do around here.
If you can hit good iron shots and if you're not making those putts, it's still tough.  So the putting was pretty good early on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT