THE 145TH OPEN
July 14, 2016
Marc Leishman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it was a nice start.  There was basically no wind, and those first four holes were really good.  Yeah, so it was a nice way to get the day started.  Then double on 9 hurt me, and another one on 13 or 14.  Yeah, it was just a bad tee shot and didn't really get it from there.   
No, the back nine was playing pretty tough.  Obviously disappointed with 3-over, but I feel like (Indiscernible) especially the way the conditions are going to be tomorrow.  If I have a good round tomorrow, yeah, you can make up a lot of ground.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) does that give you some hope?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, hopefully.  It depends on what the weather does throughout the day.  Whether it's rain throughout the day.  Whether it rains all day or on and off.  If it is on and off, hopefully we get the off times.  But you just never know.  We'll wait to see if you get some sort of breaks or play really good.   
 Q.  Did you have a strategy today for (inaudible)?  
MARC LEISHMAN: No, no, I didn't.  (Indiscernible) hit 5-iron on 1, 2, and 3, and then you know wedges into those holes and then managed to birdie.  It was a bit conservative.  On the back nine you have to be hitting driver and going for the greens in two.   
 Q.  How was 11?  
MARC LEISHMAN: 11 I hit a really good driver, 5-iron on the front of the green.  It was tough.  It was really tough the way the wind picked up a little bit.   
 Q.  What was the double at 9?  
MARC LEISHMAN: The double at 9 I hit on the fairway, it was just a little bit far back.  Ended up hitting my second shot just trickled off onto the green.  Hit it five foot, should have made it.  Yeah, so that was a pretty disappointing double.  Didn't read the greens very well today.  (Indiscernible) a couple more from 10 or 15 feet I didn't make, and then (Indiscernible) just finished in a bad spot.  You know, you have to be hitting good shots or you'll get punished.   
 Q.  Is that one of the toughest elements of this golf course?  Because the greens look relatively flat and you can't see the things that are really out there?  
MARC LEISHMAN: They're very subtle.  Yeah, overreading them and missing a lot of putts right which, I guess when they're a little bit slower they don't break as much and I haven't adjusted probably well enough to that.  So I need to work on that tomorrow.  But I feel like I'm hitting the ball well and if I have a good day or good final three rounds and hopefully make a run.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
MARC LEISHMAN: 15 I hit my drive left.  Finished (Indiscernible).  Took a penalty drop on a path.  Hit it into a bunker, probably the deepest one in the course.  (Indiscernible) So I went up sideways and actually got up and down from about 50 yards for a double.  If there is such a thing as a decent double bogey, that was on 15.   
 Q.  When you're walking up 18 and you can see the markings in there with two foot-high grass and he's pointing to where your ball is, what were you thinking?  Were you thinking not again?  
MARC LEISHMAN: I was expected to be laying up to be honest.   
 Q.  That you caught a break there?  
MARC LEISHMAN: Yeah, it was really good.  That was weird grass.  You stand on it and it's like really spongy.  That was 50-50, either lay-up or go for it on that one.  I decided to go for it.   
 Q.  You say a 6-iron?  
MARC LEISHMAN: 5-iron.  Yeah, yeah, took a few risks and that one paid off.  Managed to make par.  Only 2-over is probably not too bad.  You obviously would like to not have doubles and come in under par, but you're going to have maybe some doubles this week.  I really hope there are only two though this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT