U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2015
Jess Daley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Right down there, back and forth, back and forth, and then 17 cost you a little bit there.  What happened with that third shot?  It was a flier lie probably?  
JESS DALEY: It wasn't the third shot, it was the tee shot.  I drove it terrible all day long.  I have known back problems, and it kind of caught up with me today.  It's a lot of golf.  What is it, eight rounds?  So probably just kind of gave up on me.  I was able to hit some really good iron shots.  At times I hit some really good 5-irons into greens, like ridiculous shots, but I couldn't find it within 50 yards of where I wanted to hit it with the driver.  So it was tough.  I was hitting out of the rough on almost every hole, and you just can't do that out here.   
 Q.  Your putting was helping you, though, 14, 15?  
JESS DALEY: I hit some good putts, but I had missed a couple short ones early in the round that cost me, so kind of got down early because of putting and driving.  Really ultimately driving was what got me in trouble, and then you're just trying to bail yourself out the whole time.  But it was fun.  It was a good experience, first time competing in a long time, so it was a lot of fun to get the juices flowing.  But obviously a little disappointed.   
 Q.  You played steady from 8 on or so --  
JESS DALEY: I kind of played the same.  Neither one of us played very well to be honest with you.  It's probably a good thing for both of us that we were playing each other in that round because it really just wasn't -- we weren't going after it until the last like eight holes and kind of started to get interesting where we actually started playing some decent golf.  But yeah, it's definitely frustrating.   
 Q.  Tough to step back and say this was still a heck of a week --  
JESS DALEY: No, it was a great week.  It was a good week.  Obviously the goal was to get to the finals, but I didn't know how long I'd be able to play.  I didn't know if I'd make it through 36 holes yesterday, and I did, which was nice.  Body didn't hold up as well as I would have liked today.  Definitely didn't feel great on the range and was never really able to get my rhythm or sequence on the golf course with the swing.   
 Q.  What do you do for your back?  Do you wear a brace?  Do you do ice --  
JESS DALEY: Anti-inflammatories, ice, stim, all sorts of stuff, injections.  But I won't play for a while, and I'll take months and months off.  I just play once a month or something like that with some buddies, and then when it comes time against next summer, I take the kids out to the golf course again and hopefully I get the itch and maybe come back.  I think I'm invited back, right?   
 Q.  You are.  
JESS DALEY: Nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT