NBA FINALS: HEAT v THUNDER
June 19, 2012
Mario Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Oklahoma City Thunder - 98
  Miami Heat - 104 
   
 Q.   You would hit two of your previous 18 shots when you went on a streak where you ended up with 25 points.   Can you just talk about what you were thinking.   Had you lost any confidence?   What were you thinking when you started shooting like that?  
MARIO CHALMERS:   I didn't lose any confidence.   I was just picking my spots better.   I think I was rushing my shot, not squaring up to the basket.   I watched a little bit of film on my shots, and I made the correction.   
   
 Q.   When you saw LeBron go down with his leg cramps, what did you think?   After that you really seemed like you stepped up.   
MARIO CHALMERS:   You know, when one of our leaders are down, I have to step up.   Just help the team out the best way I could.   Coming out the timeout I told D‑Wade, "find me.   Let's get this win.   Let's put the dagger in them."   He found me and I was able to get to the hole.  
   
 Q.   You guys very often this year had a game sort of game like they had, where LeBron would have a Westbrook type of game and lead you.   Today you guys all chipped in, you, Dwyane and LeBron had his numbers, Chris had his numbers.   Do people overstate that this isn't a complete team, and there is versatility and there is depth of talent on this team?  
MARIO CHALMERS:   Yeah, definitely.   We all can play.   That's the main thing about our team, 1 through 15.   We all have high hopes, and we all can play this game.   
   
 Q.   You went 6‑of‑6 from two.   Did you see something from the game that led you to believe you could do that, or did that just kind of happen?  
MARIO CHALMERS:   It just kind of happened.   I didn't stop settling for the three.   I knew with KD on me I was going to have a lot of open looks.   That's the main thing about is knocking those shots down.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us a little bit about what the scene, what the mood was like in the room.   And has the realization hit you yet that Thursday could be the night that you guys have spent two years chasing?  
MARIO CHALMERS:   You know, we're not thinking about that right now.   We enjoyed tonight's win, get ready for Thursday.   We know in the back of our mind it's going to be what it takes to win, and we want to finish it.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned with KD on you, I'm guessing they did that to try to keep him out of foul trouble, which he had been in recent games.   Did you take that as any slight in your eyes as hey, they're going to put him on me because I'm easy to defend?  
MARIO CHALMERS:   Yeah, I took that as a little sign of disrespect.   For me I worked too hard to be in the position I'm in now.   Even though my offense wasn't clicking three games in the series, I wanted to step up for my team, and I was able to do that.   
   
 Q.   I was wondering what you meant specifically by, "when KD was on me I knew that I would be able to get an open look."   
MARIO CHALMERS:   Because I know the way they've been playing all series they've been helping off me and letting me have those shots, and I've just been missing them.   I think they forgot about me and let me roam a little bit more tonight.   
   
 Q.   Money Mayweather is gone for a while.   You've become Money Mario.   Take us through your mindset when the moment comes for you.   
MARIO CHALMERS:   I just try to step up.   I've always been a person to try to step up in big moments, and what bigger moment besides tonight and Thursday to step up.   
   
 Q.   How good did it feel coming back here to this stage after winning?   It must feel great.   
MARIO CHALMERS:   It feels pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Where is the smile?  
MARIO CHALMERS:   I've got the smile, but we've still got business.   We've got one more win, and we want to take care of business, and after we get that last win, I can be all smiles.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT