NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
June 3, 2012
Mario Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Mario, I imagine that you were pretty happy with the shot that Dwyane Wade took with however many seconds left? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   Yeah, he had a good look.   Usually that's a shot he makes.   We can't ask for a better look. 

Q.   Mario, Coach Spoelstra said the final regulation and overtime, there were multi‑layers.   Were you expecting the ball at any point? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   You know, we were just going to read the defense and see how it was.   If I was going to get the ball, I was going to be ready to shoot it, just to help my team win. 

Q.   Mario, when LeBron fouled out, what did that take away from your guys, not from an X's and O's standpoint but from an emotional standpoint? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   Nothing emotional.   It was just the biggest thing was one of our scorers.   We had to switch up our lineup; we had to go a little smaller than we like to.   It's something we have to figure out how to keep him out of foul trouble. 

Q.   You guys spent a lot of time trapping against Rondo.   It seem like it worked better in the second half.   Doc said you guys got more physically into the Celtics defensively.   Can you talk about that a little bit. 
MARIO CHALMERS:   We just wanted to give him different looks, switch up our game plan.   We know we sag off him, he's able to read the floor better, make better plays.   If you put more pressure on him, it's harder for him to pick our defense apart. 

Q.   Home‑court advantage is obviously been huge in both Conference Finals.   Any surprise when you came back here, their emotion picked up in their two games home? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   Definitely not.   You knew they were going to come out emotional like that both home games.   That's the way it's going to be the rest of the playoffs.   Each team is going to be more emotional at home with their crowd behind them. 

Q.   What was the difference between the first and second half?   And was there a reason why, obviously they're at home and they're pretty emotional, but you guys couldn't match their intensity in the first half? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   It wasn't that we couldn't match their intensity.   They hit a lot of shots.   That was the main thing.   They got a lot of wide open looks.   Our defense wasn't as crisp as it normally is.   In the second half we turned it up.

Q.   Rajon Rondo before halftime said you were whining to the officials.   Did you hear those comments and do you have a reaction? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   No, I didn't hear those comments. 

Q.   What did you get out in the third quarter to take the lead? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   We tried to push the ball.   Get back to our game.   Get stops and run off those stops we were getting. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT