NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS v HEAT
May 30, 2012
Mario Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Mario, I know it seems probably like three hours ago.   Looking back on it, how critical do you think the stretches at the end of the first half, that little spurt, a couple of threes obviously for you and just trying to keep pace with Rondo, how critical was that going forward, do you think? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   It was very critical.   We had to play catch‑up the whole first half.   That's not something we're accustomed to doing.   We kept fighting.   Coach told us to keep going.   Don't look down, don't let down.   We were able to push forward. 

Q.   No podium pink? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   No. 

Q.   What was the mindset in the first half when you clearly saw that Wade was kind of struggling.   Did you go back to that Game 3 or whatever in Indy? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   I just tried to pick up the slack.   We needed an energy boost.   That's my job for this team, is to provide energy and do all the little things.   I was able to get loose tonight, and it kept going. 

Q.   Mario, from where you were, from your perspective, how unbelievable was Rondo?   Playing every second, doing everything for them.   I know you're trying to beat him, but how good was it to watch, too? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   You know, I didn't get to watch too much.   Just trying to focus on the game.   He showed why he's one of the best point guards in this league.   Any time a person has 44 and 10, eight boards, they do a good job. 

Q.   What's this mean going forward, as far as taking momentum to Boston?   Obviously it could have been a much different mood an hour ago, had this gone a different way.   Can momentum carry from tonight into Friday? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   Definitely.   I know we feel good about tonight's win, the way we fought back.   We can't get comfortable.   We know that Boston is going to be a tough arena to play in.   We have to come out ready to play from the jump. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT