NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 7, 2014
Mario Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about preparing for the long haul.   Starting in the summer what do you do to prepare for the season?   
    MARIO CHALMERS:   It all starts in the summer, try to condition your body, just get your mind right, going through the long process and the long grind.   
   
 Q.   Do you play in the summer?   
    MARIO CHALMERS:   I play a little pick‑up in the summer here and there.   
   
 Q.   Is there a way to guard against the extra pass of San Antonio?   Is there any way to get ahead of it?   
    MARIO CHALMERS:   No, there is no way to try to get ahead of it.   You just got to be able to react to it and just know it's coming.   
   
 Q.   Ray jumped a couple of routes at the corner the other night, was that a tactical adjustment on your part or just instinct?   
    MARIO CHALMERS:   Just instinct.   Both teams know each other pretty well, so we try to be one step ahead of them as much as possible but also not try to gamble too much.   So it's a little bit of both.   
   
 Q.   Regular season you guys played twice and you both had guys out.   But now having played seven games last year and now the one, you guys getting sick of each other?   
    MARIO CHALMERS:   No, I don't think so.   It's great playing these guys, playing for a championship, winning it all, no better team to play.   
   
 Q.   We know how hard it is for you to get here.   Can you imagine the process of being here five times in 15 years like they have and what kind of a grind that is?   
    MARIO CHALMERS:   I don't want to think about that.   I know that's tough.   But they got a great bunch of guys over there.   They've been together through thick and thin and everybody wants to be that team that gets to the Finals and wins four championships like that.   
   
 Q.   How do you stay out of foul trouble?   
    MARIO CHALMERS:   Still trying to figure that out.   You know, just gotta be more aware.   Don't reach, try to play as solid as possible.   
   
 Q.   Is it confusing when sometimes there's contact and they fall down randomly?   Is that confusing at times?   
    MARIO CHALMERS:   It can be at times.   I think it happened a lot in the first game, kinda went both ways.   That's part of the game now so you gotta adjust to it.     
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT