NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 6, 2014
Mario Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I imagine last night was frustrating for you between the fouls and everything else.   What was it about the way the Spurs were playing that, first of all, on offense they clogged the paint and slapped down as much as possible.   How is that different? 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   I felt like they did a good job of clogging the paint, gotta get off the ball quicker, be more patient in my pick‑and‑rolls and shoot more gaps. 

Q.   Chris said when he had you by the head there that he was telling you to make the simple pass, is that what it was? 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   Yeah, he was trying to keep me in the game.   I was frustrated with it being the first ‑‑ he could see I was trying to get a little frustrated with it being the first game, Game 1 of the Finals and being in foul trouble and not be able to help my team.   I was getting a little frustrated.   He was just trying to keep me in the game. 

Q.   It's been a while since yelling at you consistently has happened. 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   They weren't yelling at me, they was just trying to encourage me.   Everybody knew I was frustrated with the foul trouble I got into early, and when I got back into the game, I was trying to press as much as I could.   And I was trying to get back the minutes I wasn't playing and I was just trying to make something happen. 

Q.   What's led to the foul trouble you've had in a couple of games, last night and one within the last couple of weeks as well? 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   Just gotta be careful with my touch fouls.   I get a lot of touch fouls and I got to figure out a way to adjust. 

Q.   People talk about fatigue and playing basketball over the years, how are you physically, spiritually?   Seems like you're not the same boisterous guy that you were a few years ago. 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   I'm still the same guy, I'm that anxious guy, that energy guy that wants to do what he can for his team, help make everything right.   And I just got to figure out a way to stay on the court longer. 

Q.   Do you guys feel different today after last night?   Is it harder to recover after a game like that? 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   I think everybody feels a lot lighter.   Everybody probably lost a little more weight, but our spirits are high after Game 1.   Playoffs are all about making adjustments so we need to make adjustments going into Game 2. 

Q.   When you look at the defenses, was it good defense last night or sloppy play? 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   You can credit the defenses, but sloppy play, too.   A lot of nerves going into Game 1, and I think everything is a little more settled now. 

Q.   How much did you guys learn from playing in Game 1s and losing and then came back to win those series? 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   It's a long series.   Series is not over.   One game, six more to go. 

Q.   Are you playing up to your standards in these playoffs?   Because you have high standards. 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   As much as I can.   Just doing different things, trying to fight through it, play as much as I can.   





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT