NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 4, 2014
Mario Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARIO CHALMERS:   We have a better feel for each other, being through what we went through last year, there was a little bit of bad blood in their mouth toward us and, you know, we're going to come out and play and stay focused. 

Q.   Tony Parker was saying he had no revenge feeling because he likes Miami.   He said they lost because of themselves.   Do you have, like, bad feelings against them? 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   No, no bad feelings toward San Antonio at all.   They're a great team, I respect the organization and all their players and it's going to be a fun series. 

Q.   You brought up Tony Parker.   The guys said he hadn't practiced because of his injury to his foot.   How aware are you of his injury and how do you exploit that? 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   I'm not worried about his injury to be honest.   It's the Finals.   We got seven games left in the season, and I'm sure he's going to do whatever he can to play in all seven games and be as effective as he can.   And my job is to make it tough when he steps on the court. 

Q.   You like that cover?   This guy who has been so great for so long, is that something you look toward to? 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   I definitely look forward to it, playing one of the best point guards in the league on this stage right here, for the second year in a row.   It's going to be a lot of fun. 

Q.   Did you ever feel like you have to match the guy   that you're covering or the guy that's covering you? 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   I feel like that internally, but knowing how our team works and the players that we have on our team, I don't take it personally, I don't make it a one‑on‑one challenge. 

Q.   What stands out to you most about the way you guys go about business and the talent there?   Beyond that what's the dynamic that makes this work, this team? 
    MARIO CHALMERS:   I think the biggest dynamic is we all want it.   I think that's our biggest thing, from the head coach down to playing No. 15 to the ball boys, everybody that's worked for the Miami Heat, we all want this championship, we all want to be successful and we all want to help each other be successful and it makes it fun to play with these guys and makes it easier.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT