NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 20, 2013
Mario Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







San Antonio Spurs - 88
  Miami Heat - 95

Q.   First introduce us to who this is. 
MARIO CHALMERS:   My son Zachiah. 

Q.   Look at this boxscore and tell me what you think.   Four of you guys outscored the Spurs in the game. 
MARIO CHALMERS:   You know, we had a lot of big people step up.   I got to tip my hat off to Shane.   Without Shane, I think this game might still be going right now.   Shane stepped up.   He had been struggling all playoffs.   6‑for‑8 from three‑point line.   That's big. 

Q.   Mario, has the realization that you guys did something that only like four other franchises in the last 40 years have done, going back to back, it's been proven to be darn close to impossible for just about everybody.   Has that realization hit you yet that that's exactly what you did tonight? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   Not yet.   I'm sure it will sink in once I go back to the back again and everybody start talking about it. 
Like you said, it's a dream come true for me especially.   A little kid from Alaska, driven by playing in the NBA.   To be here and have two NBA championships, it's a dream come true for me. 

Q.   Mario, do you guys feel like you're just starting to put this thing together and starting to hit some momentum now that this is the second title in three straight trips to The Finals? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   I think the momentum is over.   The season is over. 

Q.   I'm saying from the standpoint of where you guys can be as a team moving forward. 
MARIO CHALMERS:   Yeah, I think we're just getting started.   We added a big piece this year in Ray Allen.   He's been tremendous for us this year.   So we're going to keep going.   Hopefully everybody comes back next year.   We'll be ready to do this thing again. 

Q.   Mario, from the 34th pick to two‑time NBA champion, what does this mean to you? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   It means a lot to me.   Like I said before, a little kid growing up in Anchorage, Alaska, dreaming about playing in the NBA.   To be here, being in three Finals, winning two out of three, it's a dream come true.   A blessing for me and my family.   I'm glad to be here with the Miami Heat and be in this situation. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT