NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 19, 2013
Mario Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Fourth quarter, have you seen stuff like that from LeBron often now?   
MARIO CHALMERS:   I'm used to it.   That's what we needed for him to win.   That's why he's the MVP.   
   
 Q.   This has been a back‑and‑forth series.   Are you guys hoping there's some sort of carry‑over from that huge win?   
MARIO CHALMERS:   It's got to be for us to be the champion.   We have to put it all on the line again and go for the win.   
   
 Q.   Why do you think it's been so back and forth?   
MARIO CHALMERS:   It's two great teams.   Two great teams lined up one against each other.   We have to keep battling.     
   
 Q.   How have these physical battles with Indiana and Chicago in the past, obviously Boston last year, but is this the toughest series in terms of execution and actual basketball that you can remember in your time with the Heat?   
MARIO CHALMERS:   Yes, this is the first time in a long time the series for us has been just about basketball.   It's something that we had to adjust to.   But we can adjust our game to anything.   
   
 Q.   Dwyane is obviously having some struggles in terms of physical‑‑ he's still being active.   The shots are not falling.   Is there anything that your relation with him, did you share anything with him in terms of supporting him?   
MARIO CHALMERS:   No, D‑Wade will be ready for Game 7.   He lives for this moment.   We all live for this moment.   There's no words to be said.   
   
 Q.   What did you guys do differently on Ginobili after a good game in Game 5?   
MARIO CHALMERS:   Just put more pressure on him.   I felt like the last game we came out and let him be the aggressor.   Let him dictate tempos instead of us controlling what he was doing.   
   
 Q.   You got a lot of shots in pregame.   Were you trying to make sure you were in rhythm, knocking down those corner threes?   
MARIO CHALMERS:   Yeah, definitely.   I watched a lot of film, and I seen a lot of my shots was going through the corner, a lot of my open shots.   I was just working on that before the game.   
   
 Q.   What's causing those corners to get open?   
MARIO CHALMERS:   Just when LeBron and D‑Wade drive, the defensive plan is to put a full body in front of them, and not let them get all the way to the basket.   When they do that, it leaves us open.   
   
 Q.   There are a lot of questions about how the Spurs will recover from a game like that.   On the other side, how do you top what happened last night?   
MARIO CHALMERS:   We've got to.   For us to be NBA champs we have to play a lot better than we did yesterday.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT