NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 9, 2013
Mario Chalmers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







San Antonio Spurs - 84
  Miami Heat - 103

Q.   Mario, in the third quarter with your and‑one, when you made the bucket right before the end of 3:30.   You walked to mid‑court and said something to LeBron as he was struggling.   What was that conversation about? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   I felt like we had them on the ropes at the time.   I told them lets go for the kill. 

Q.   What did he say? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   He said, "I'm with you."

Q.   You've had some big Finals games scoring‑wise the last couple of years.   What is it that you really step up on this stage at times?   Coach Spoelstra said you've just got guts.   How would you characterize them? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   I just try to make the most of my opportunities.   You always hear how hard it is to get to The Finals.   Once you get there, you want to leave it out on the court and never have no look‑backs. 

Q.   Mario, when you go into the game like this, what's your priorities?   Is it to defend Tony Parker the way you've been doing it some kind of good?   Said by Tony himself, or is it just let the game offensively come to you?   Because you were big tonight. 
MARIO CHALMERS:   A little bit of both.   My main focus is to stop Tony Parker.   That's my job.   That's the key to the game, is not let him get going.   And if the offense keeps going for me, I'm going to take it as it comes. 

Q.   Mario, we know you play with a lot of pride, a lot of confidence.   How much did Tony Parker's performance in Game 1 sort of motivate you to step up tonight and go right back at him? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   It wasn't nothing about Tony Parker.   It was the fact that we lost Game 1.   We never want to lose, especially in The Finals.   My mindset was just do what I can for the team and go for there. 

Q.   We know both sides have Hall‑of‑Famers, Big Threes.   How important is the next three, the supporting cast of both sides in terms of determining the outcome of the series? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   Very important.   Their second unit, they had a big game in Game 1.   Our second unit had a big game tonight.   So it's going to be the tale of the others. 

Q.   Mario, can you describe what LeBron did when he went up as Tiago Splitter was about to throw one down in the fourth quarter? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   He blocked it.   I mean, we seen that coming.   I know I kind of figured he was going to block that one, just the angle he had.   That's why he's First‑Team All Defense.   It was a great defensive play. 

Q.   It's very unusual that you see LeBron go three quarters without really finding his rhythm.   What was it like for the rest of you guys waiting on LeBron to kind of explode in this game? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   That's the thing, nobody waited.   We know LeBron.   He's the best player.   He's going to get his at any given moment.   So we just try to make the Spurs guard us and make it easier on him. 

Q.   Mario, in addition to hitting the threes tonight, you were very aggressive going to the basket.   We've seen that over the past couple of weeks.   What's been kind of your mindset in trying to do that?   And what did you see that allowed you to do that tonight? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   See how they're playing the pick‑and‑roll.   Try to attack the basket and get my teammates involved.   Once we start attacking the basket, it's going to open up the outside jumpers.   You know, inside‑out game. 

Q.   It seems for the first two games your runs couldn't get you more than five or seven points ahead.   Your three‑point play gave you that ten‑point lead.   What did that do psychologically to get up double digits?
MARIO CHALMERS:   It just gave everybody that mental edge to go for the kill.   We wanted to put them away and send them a message. 

Q.   Was there a little more pressure or feeling like the other guys, not LeBron James, needed to something more in this game after he went for the triple‑double and you guys still lost in Game 1? 
MARIO CHALMERS:   Not no extra pressure on us.   We want to step up big and help him out and help ourselves out.   We did a good job of everybody stepping up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT