NCAA MEN'S GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2019
Conrad Ray
Daulet Tuleubayev
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








RICK NIXON: Coach, if you could make an opening statement.  Obviously a long day of golf for you, but your mindset right now.
CONRAD RAY: Yeah, excited about today.  Just trying to process it all.  A long 36 holes.  Just to play a casual round and play 36 on this course let alone for the national championship is special.  It's draining but exciting.
Happy about how our guys hung in there.  We're excited to get a chance to play Texas.  It's a team we've seen this year.  A lot of respect for this team, the job Coach Fields does with those boys.  It should be a great match.
RICK NIXON: Daulet, talk about the day, having to win two matches, obviously some big shots by you down the stretch, as well.
DAULET TULEUBAYEV: First match was tough.  Cameron was playing fantastic golf.  Coach Ray told me before the round just to play smart golf.  He was playing flawless golf.  I wasn't too upset about the loss.  Just happy the other guys on my team made it.
Obviously had a chip on my shoulder the second time around.  Tried to bring it back as far as I could.  It worked out in the end.
RICK NIXON: Questions.
Q. Daulet, is this one of the craziest matches this afternoon, one that you've ever played in?
DAULET TULEUBAYEV: Oh, yeah, for sure.  I haven't had a chance to play too many match play events in my career.  We did some hole match play events against the guys, but obviously not the same high stakes as it was here.
I come in here, it was a fresh experience.  I got away with a victory.
Q. Talk about 17 and 18, the range of emotions you went through.
DAULET TULEUBAYEV: I'm sure coach was more stressed than I was about the whole thing (laughter).
We had a funny line, trying to move some rocks around the ball, seeing if I could get up on the green.  We were waiting to see what Vanderbilt was going to do.  Obviously had a great shot on the green.  Tried to go for broke.  It worked out.
Obviously unlucky thing happened on 17 with my stroke, clipping the ball.  I understand it's the rule, so...  I'll be standing further away from the ball now.
18, thankfully I walked up to the tee a little upset, discouraged.  Coach did a great job of coaching me through it, telling me it was a great opportunity to show off and show what I'm made of.  Helped me hit two great shots.
CONRAD RAY: I mean, there was a lot of emotion there.  I think I was really proud of how Daulet played 16.  He was leaking a little oil.  He 3-putted 14.  Hit one in the weeds on 15.  We won't talk about that (laughter).
On 16, hit it right in the middle of the green, had a great 2-putt for par.  Steadied the ship a little bit.
Then on 17, Daulet followed the Vanderbilt guy into the hazard.  That probably shouldn't have happened.  We were looking probably a little aggressively on the line.  But stuff happens.  He hit a great shot to get out of the hazard.
18, Daulet has hit that tee ball all week.  It was a tough tee shot.  He was able to hit it right at the left bunker, rip it, hit it solid.
The 5-iron was probably top three of my career shots under the situation that I've seen.  He was able to make the putt.  That 5-iron was pretty special.
Q. Conrad, talk about tomorrow's match against Texas.  What will be some of the keys for you?
CONRAD RAY: I think we're all kind of in survival mode with as much golf as we've played, short nights and everything.  I think we'll rely on our fitness.  The guys wonder why we're having a third workout on Fridays in January.  Now is when it comes to fruition.
I think if we can just take good shots...  Sometimes you get a little caught up in the drama of playing another team, everything going on.  I guess my message to my guys is going to be:  Let's play some quality golf, hit the ball on the fairway, hit the ball on the green, see what happens.
RICK NIXON: Congratulations.  Thanks for joining us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT