MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 12, 2020
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about the start to the day with having to take a break with the weather and how that impacted you teeing off on 10. 
JIMMY WALKER: It was very foggy. It's very hot today on 10 as well. So it was real foggy and pretty dark, and they pushed us back to 7:10. You've got to get going right off the get go. 
Hit a couple of good shots. I missed a short putt. Then getting pulled off for a few hours is kind of a bummer, but I think we all knew that's what was coming.

Q. And what were the conditions like out there? How soft was it for you? 
JIMMY WALKER: I thought we'd be picking up a little bit more mud on the fairway and stuff, but it actually was pretty good. I was really surprised. It played very soft. The greens were very receptive. You had to really be careful on some of your wedge shots. You kind of had to club down in a couple of instances and hit some three‑quarter shots and take the spin off. 

Q. What did you do during the break? 
JIMMY WALKER: I had coffee and breakfast with my wife.

Q. Sounds relaxing. You had some great shots on the par 3s today. Can you just talk about your overall round and how you feel about it. 
JIMMY WALKER: Hit some really good shots. Hit a great shot into 12 right behind the hole. Had about a 10, 12‑footer, made that. Then 16, we were kind of looking long right, and we knew it would come back down. I hit our spot perfect. It almost came down in the hole. But not a very good shot into 4, but a good shot into 6.

Q. How did you feel about overall play at your performance today? 
JIMMY WALKER: Overall, it was pretty good. I didn't drive quite as well as I would have liked to. I'm still trying to figure out how to get on the right side of this course. I always seem to be around even par, 1 under, 2 under. I'm looking for that breakout round out here where I can really get it going and keep it going. Maybe tomorrow into the weekend will be it. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT