CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 24, 2014
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Jimmy, describe today's round?   You were in cruise control and then caught I thought a couple bad breaks there on the back nine?   
JIMMY WALKER:   It was tough.   The wind felt like it was swirling a little bit and maybe misread a couple iron shots.   Had an 8‑iron that went about 180 on the par‑3 that kind of threw me for a loop.   Could have gotten that one up‑and‑down.   But all in all I played really steady and solid all day.   I drove it better today.   Hit a lot of really good shots and I hit a lot of lips on some birdie putts.   Maybe tomorrow they'll go.  
   
 Q.   Why haven't the scores been any better?   It seems the conditions have been really good for scoring?   
JIMMY WALKER:   I'm trying to figure it out too.   I don't know.   I know my ball doesn't seem to want to go in for a birdie putt.   I mean, I'm hitting really good putts, good speed, so it's frustrating.   But it's a tough golf course to hit fairways.   There is wind, fairways are fast, and I think that might be keeping the guys from hitting it close.  
   
 Q.   You're in position now to win for the fourth time.   You're right there despite the bad breaks.   Your thoughts about tomorrow?   
JIMMY WALKER:   I've had some good breaks this week too.   I can't deny that.   But I just kept the ball right in front of me.   I'm excited for a chance tomorrow.   The last hole was big.   I knew what it meant.   It meant a lot and to make it was big.   So I'm going to take that in tomorrow and make some birdies.  
   
 Q.   How would you summarize your round today?   
JIMMY WALKER:   I played pretty solid all day.   I drove it really well, hit some good iron shots.   I hit some really good putts that didn't go in, but I was able to keep it right there and give myself a chance for tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Why have the scores not been really low?   
JIMMY WALKER:   It's hard to say.   It's playing pretty fast.   I think maybe it's tough to keep it in the fairway just because the ball is running out so much.   Guys are hitting it far and the temperatures are up, so I think it was kind of hard to judge some of your distances today coming into the greens and even off the tee a little bit.   So fairway is maybe hard to find, and out of this rough it's hard to get it close, so maybe not as many good looks at birdie.   That's all I can think of.  
   
 Q.   With this bunched about up leaderboard, what's it going to take tomorrow for someone to pull out of this?   
JIMMY WALKER:   I don't know.   I mean, I think there is a good round out there in the afternoon for somebody.   Doesn't look like anybody's really done it this week.   But some of the better scores seem to come out in the morning maybe when the wind is down a little bit.   
But who knows what tomorrow's going to bring.   Just got to go out and stay in it and have a chance.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about 18?   What you were thinking when you were trying to take off your socks and shoes and how that hole came around for you?   
JIMMY WALKER:   Well, it looked like I could get a footing in there.   It looked like it was only a foot deep, but that turned out to be an optical illusion.   I got almost three quarters of the way up my calf.   So that was a nice little left legged squat.   Let's get out of here and try to hit that awkward shot.   I almost hit a good shot there.  
   
 Q.   What did that hole mean to you coming away with par like that?   
JIMMY WALKER:   It was big.   I don't know if somebody's going to get to 8, but being one back is nice.   This is a golf course where a lot of things can happen, so I'm excited to go out tomorrow and play golf.  
   
 Q.   How deep was it?   
JIMMY WALKER:   I don't know.   I didn't touch.  
   
 Q.   Oh.   It's a good thing you have good balance.   All told a pretty good start early, and then it seemed as if a lot of folks struggled up‑and‑down the back nine.   Tell me for you how you saw how this round went?   
JIMMY WALKER:   The wind seemed to start swirling on the back nine.   It was kind of southeast, south, southwest, and it was kind of all over the place.   I hit a couple shots a little deep and the ball was starting to travel.   I don't know if it was misjudging the wind or the weather getting hot.   Yeah, it was just a tough golf course, bound to make a bogey somewhere.  
   
 Q.   Overall you're the FedExCup leader.   You played consistently and excellently all year.   What is the feeling about being able to be in position at this golf course with a chance to win at a legendary spot?   
JIMMY WALKER:   It's cool.   When you tee off you've got the Wall of Champions over there and you get your name engraved in the granite.   There are a lot of really famous names there.   I think everybody that's played here and won is a really good player, because I think that's what it takes around here is to have all the game, every shot, cuts, draws, low, high, everything, good short game.   So it would mean a lot to me to win, especially in my home state.   
It's been fun.   I've had a lot of Baylor fans out here this week supporting.   It's been cool.   It's nice to see everybody out.  
   
 Q.   What will you need to have happen for you with so many players within a couple of shots?   
JIMMY WALKER:   Just it's tough.   It was kind of like that at Sony this year.   There were a bunch of guys bunched up with 10 or 11 holes to go.   And just the guy that makes the most birdies in the bunch at the end of the day is going to win.   So I'd like to go out and make my share tomorrow, and it will be a lot of fun.   I'm looking forward to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT