CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 22, 2014
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another solid start for you.   You have to be proud of that, because I thought it was windy conditions and no bogeys, good playing. 
JIMMY WALKER:   Thanks.   I hit a lot of quality iron shots on the greens, whether it be from the rough or the fairway.   I felt like I had pretty good control of my ball heading in from the green.   Made a few putts and made one good par save on the back nine, our front, the front, so it was good day.

Q.   Had to be fun, big gallery.   You were playing with Adam and Zach, and you all played pretty good.   I know Adam struggled a little early, but it had to be a fun day. 
JIMMY WALKER:   It was a fun day.   There was a good vibe in the whole group, I think.   It was very calm and mellow, and nobody was too high, nobody was too low.   Everybody stayed pretty even keel.   It was a good time.   We had good talks and it was a good day.

Q.   You're a Texas guy.   Is this a little more special than just another stop?   Would this be a little more meaningful to win this thing? 
JIMMY WALKER:   It would.   I'd love to win in my home state.   I think it would be very cool.   Anytime you can do that is always a treat.   So looking forward to the rest of the week for sure.

Q.   Can you talk about the round?   Are you happy with a 67? 
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, very happy.   I made a lot of good iron shots into the greens whether it be from the rough or the fairway.   I felt like I had good control of my ball heading into the green.   Didn't make any bogeys, so that's always nice around here.

Q.   What about number 5?   That was a heck of a save?
JIMMY WALKER:   It was a good save.   I kind of pulled the drive up the left, just didn't really cut.   I got a big kick up left of the trees.   I kind of had a shot, and I went for it.   I had a big high cut over the trees, and didn't hit a very good shot, but it came up just short of the green and made a great up‑and‑down there.   That was very nice.

Q.   How off balance were you on the shot? 
JIMMY WALKER:   The ball was a good eight inches below my feet so I had to go down and get after it.

Q.   The wind looked tricky.   It wasn't particularly hard, but it was swirling on a few holes, wasn't it? 
JIMMY WALKER:   It wasn't so much swirling.   It always feels like it's kind of in the direction you think it is here.   I don't see it swirling around too much.   But the wind was there and you had to pay attention to it today.

Q.   How were the greens? 
JIMMY WALKER:   The greens were perfect.

Q.   When you play a bogey‑free round on Thursday, how much confidence does that give you? 
JIMMY WALKER:   It feels good.   I mean, I had chances to make bogey but made some saves today, which is nice.   That's what you have to do around a golf course like this.   It's playing fast.   It's hard for me to hit the fairways right now just because the ball is running out and some of the doglegs and stuff.   So it's playing pretty tough as you can see.

Q.   You were playing with Adam.   That is the first time playing together.   Tough first nine, but what did you see from watching your game? 
JIMMY WALKER:   Oh, you know, this is a golf course where if you miss a couple shots here or there you can make a bogey pretty quick.   It's happened a couple of times.   He was in total control of his demeanor and everything and everything was good.

Q.   You take three more at 3‑under and take your chances this weekend? 
JIMMY WALKER:   I'd probably be okay.   But it's a long way to the end and there is a lot of golf.   But it is nice to get off to a good start for sure.

Q.   Jimmy Walker with a bogey‑free round on the day.   You're supposed to play this golf course from the fairway, but officially only four fairways hit for you.   Is this a matter of being able to miss in the right spots and capitalize? 
JIMMY WALKER:   That helps.   It's a tough golf course to hit fairways because it is playing fast right now and the fairways are running.   So you get the ball working with the wind, and it was tough to keep it in the fairway.   I felt like a hit a couple of good drives today, but they were a foot off the fairway.   So no big misses or anything, but I was able to control the golf ball going into the greens.

Q.   You've only played here once before, which seems a little odd as a proud Texan, but what do you find from this golf course that suits your game particularly since you're playing so well this season? 
JIMMY WALKER:   Reminds me a lot of the golf course I play at home in San Antonio called Oak Hills.   We played the TOUR event out there for a long time.   This golf course is a little longer, but it's got the same look, feel, and same kind of green complexes and same type of fairways and how they run.   So I feel like it's kind of a home track just from the way it looks and kind of the way it plays. 
So I was definitely excited to get back.   I haven't played in a while.   Just been hurt and tore a meniscus in my knee a few years ago, had my neck go out at the Byron.   So it's nice to feel healthy and get back. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT