THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2014
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   When did you start looking at the leaderboard and thinking you can make a run?  
JIMMY WALKER:   Probably after I birdied nine.   I made a really good up‑and‑down from the back bunker, really no place to hit it, trying to go for that green in two.   I hit about as high and soft a shot as I could hit and it still carried onto the green and into the bunker.   It was a tough bunker shot but I got that up‑and‑down.   After that I felt pretty good.   
Then eagle on 11 I was like, okay, here we go.   
   
 Q.   Run us through 11.   
JIMMY WALKER:   11, I hit a nice low cut draw or low cut off the tee, and I've been kind of hitting it all day and yesterday and was feeling good.   I hadn't hit that shot off that tee yet, so I hit that one and then I hit‑‑ we had about 255 I think to that pin and I hit a nice low or a nice cut 5‑wood and it landed on the front of the green.   I put a pretty good bend on it and it landed just on and released out on to the green to about 12 feet and made it.   So that was nice.   
   
 Q.   The conditions today?   Feel like getting low scores are more getable than other days?  
JIMMY WALKER:   There wasn't any wind when we played for about the first, I don't know, 14, 15 holes.   Then it kind of started to pick up a little bit and it's blowing a little harder than it was, but it's not blowing like it has been the last three days.   
   
 Q.   Is this kind of just more momentum kind of where your season has been going, seems like it's been a really strong start.   
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, I take today, after the start, 3‑over, I was wondering, I knew I needed to make a pretty good run on Friday to make the cut.   And finished strong, that's big.  
   
 Q.   You kind of struggled after the good start, you kind of struggled during the year a little in the middle and now this, is this, is there a reason why you kind of struggled a little in the middle?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I don't think I struggled, really, in the middle, I think I've been finishing in the Top‑25, 20, pretty consistently.   
   
 Q.   We're just so used to you being on the top.   
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah.   But I feel like I've been playing pretty good.   Just maybe a fraction off.   Making cuts, finishing in the Top‑20 is good.   It just shows that the game's right there and you never know when you get four solid ones and jump back into the having a chance to win.  
   
 Q.   Was there any kind of adjustment after winning like you did and getting off to that start that you have to make?   I know it's more tiring.   
JIMMY WALKER:   I don't think so.   There's just a little more media stuff to do and a few more demands on your time, but that's just all part of the deal.   
   
 Q.   How much attention do you pay to the World Rankings?  
JIMMY WALKER:   Really not much.   Not a whole lot.   I always wondered, I felt like I played a lot of good golf, but never really got anywhere in the World Rankings and it wasn't until you win that you start moving.   Top‑10s didn't really seem to move you much.  
   
 Q.   But even three wins hasn't moved you inside the Top‑20.   
JIMMY WALKER:   I don't know.   I don't know the system.   There's something about that divisor that means a lot.   Mine's maxed out.   I think there's only a handful of guys I think in front of me that have maxed out their divisor, I guess.   So it's all about that ‑‑ I don't know.   I'm going to play the tournaments I'm going to play, I'm not going to skip any, just because it might be a good or bad thing.   
   
 Q.   Your wife said that this was her mother's day gift, is that true?  
JIMMY WALKER:   That sounds pretty good.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   She also said you didn't get her anything else.   
JIMMY WALKER:   Well, that sounds about right, too.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   This should solidify you are pretty darn close to Ryder Cup spot.   Talk about that, even though it's still far away.   
JIMMY WALKER:   It would be awesome.   I really had a blast playing match play this year at Accenture.   It was a fun format.   I hadn't played it in a long time.   Throwing a teammate in there and looking at the team and how it might start stacking up and guys I would enjoy playing with, it looks really cool and everybody we have talked to just said it's the time of your life, doesn't matter if you within or lose, it's just one of the coolest things you'll do playing golf.   
   
 Q.   You're not going to be at Memorial, so how are you going to get measured up?  
JIMMY WALKER:   We're doing it, there's a fitting at the PGA Championship.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT