THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2014
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Slow start to the week, 75, brilliant end to the week, 65.   How much fun was that out there today?  
JIMMY WALKER:   It was fun.   I got it rolling, for sure.   A lot of good iron shots, I drove it better today, a lot more fairways, and slowed the putting stroke down a little bit and made some putts, so it's been fun.  
   
 Q.   It's been a fun season for you, hasn't it, I know it's been 200 events before your first one and now three in quick succession.   Just talk about the turnaround.   What changed for you, what enabled you to turn that form into three wins so quickly on the PGA TOUR?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I think it's just a lot of, a lot more confidence.   I feel like I bring a lot more to the table now and more comfortable with the golf courses and working with Butch has been great.   I think he's instilled a lot more confidence in me than I ever had.   So bringing that to the golf course every day feels good.   
   
 Q.   How high are the expectations now for the rest of the season?   Obviously some big Majors coming up.   
JIMMY WALKER:   There are, and I'm really looking forward to the rest of the year.   It feels like I've played a lot of golf already, but I know there is a lot more to come and we're trying to pace ourselves and be ready for each and every week that we tee it up.  
   
 Q.   We have seen some low numbers out there, give us a sense of what the guys ahead will face coming down the stretch.   As we know, 16, 17 and 18, tough, but there are birdie out there today, as you have proved.   
JIMMY WALKER:   There are.   I was hitting it really well with my irons.   I had complete control, draws, fades, I was able to attack.   There wasn't much wind when we played.   Seems like it might be picking up a little bit now, but when we played the front it was very benign, even through the back, and I was able to take advantage of it.   
   
 Q.   After an opening round 75, I imagine you went to bed Thursday night wondering if you were going to make the cut.   You did more than that.   Wonderful rally.   
JIMMY WALKER:   Thank you.   I wasn't real pleased with the opening.   But got everything back into line and into gear and finished it off well today, it was nice.  
   
 Q.   Really built some momentum, that's hard to do out here because the holes can be so difficult if you get just a little bit sideways.   
JIMMY WALKER:   It is.   I felt like that's what I was missing all week.   I felt I had plenty of firepower, lots of birdies this week, but for whatever reason a couple of wayward tee shots and bad shots into the green.   
It's tough not to make any bogeys around this place.   So I felt like the momentum was getting killed every time I would maybe try to get on a little run.   But it didn't happen today.  
   
 Q.   You played like a FedExCup leader.   Well done.   
JIMMY WALKER:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   Tied for the low round of the day, I know it wasn't the finish you wanted, but overall it seemed like you were able to really be aggressive out there today.   
JIMMY WALKER:   It was.   I hit a lot of good tee balls, which I hadn't been doing all week.   I drove it a lot better today, I was taking advantage of the approach shots, hitting good shots, made some putts, and that last tee shot just got away from me.   We had a little hole and needed to go for it, so why not and ended up making a bogey.   But not a big deal, great round today, for sure.  
   
 Q.   Do you always feel like you always have to push toward the end when you see yourself climbing up towards the leaderboard, you know the leaders may fall back a little bit, but kind of feel the need to push?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I was thinking, I mean, I make a couple more birdies and if the wind picks up and the storm starts to maybe come in, you never know what could happen.   It's a tough golf course and I was trying to take advantage of the conditions we got to play in midday today.   So I was running and gunning, I was going as hard as I could.  
   
 Q.   That's been pretty successful for you so far this season when you have that kind of strategy.   You've held the lead in the FedExCup standings since October, so we're now going on seven months.   Knowing you have that kind of security like that, in this season, does that maybe make you relax a little bit or how does that try to change your mentality?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I kind of wondered what it would make me feel like, but it really makes me feel like I need to keep the pedal down.   I feel like, everywhere you go, everybody keeps saying, "No. 1, No. 1," I know what it means and they know what it means and it would sure be great to be No. 1 at the end of September, so that's what we're trying to do.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT