MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2014
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Five back of the lead going into the weekend, you can't really attack here, can you?
JIMMY WALKER:   Well, you can pick and choose.   If you hit a good drive and you get a good number, I think you need to try to hit the good shot.   It's out there. 

Q.   Are you feeling more comfortable now that you got two rounds in?
JIMMY WALKER:   I felt comfortable.   It was a tough day.   They were tough pins and it played tough.   I hit it really good.   I would have liked to have shot a little better than I did, but we're right there where we need to be.

Q.   The skinny lie there on 18 on your second shot?
JIMMY WALKER:   I was sitting in a really deep divot in the middle of the fairway.   I just caught it a hair thick.   I dug in there pretty hard on it.

Q.   Pretty good creativity on the third shot though. 
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, not bad.   I've seen that on TV before. 

Q.   It's a little bit of an up‑and‑down day, you kept hanging in there though. 
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, I didn't quite get committed on the tee shot on 9 and that led to a bogey.   I hit a great shot out of the trees just over the green.   That's asking a lot to get up‑and‑down from over 9, especially with that pin‑‑ or any pin, really. 
10, I hit a bad 3‑wood up the right side and I had like 230 to the flag.   Hit it in the front bunker and made bogey.   So that was kind of a bummer. 
I had a great drive down 11.   Knocked it on.   Both the guys I played with didn't play the hole real well.   I hit it right in the middle of the green and left it an inch short, right in the heart for birdie. 
I played 12 good. 
Played 13 really well. 
Played good into the house. 
Hit a great shot into 16, just didn't turn out, just went a little deep through the wind. 
But all in all it was good.

Q.   You won three times, do you think that's going to help you the rest of the way?
JIMMY WALKER:   I think so.   You learn patience.   I think that's one of the biggest keys for me is learning how to be patient and learning how to not let a hole or a bad hole or a couple holes derail your quest, I guess. 
You never know what's going to happen, so you got to stay in that positive frame of mind that, yes, I can make four birdies in a row, I can make three birdies in a row, I can make two in a row. 

Q.   How different is the wind around here compared to other courses?
JIMMY WALKER:   It really does swirl.   It's amazing.   I don't think I've ever been anywhere where it does anything like this. 
You're out there playing Pebble Beach or San Diego, you know where the wind is all the time, because there's nothing to block it and make it swirl and running in and out through the trees.   It's tough, it really is.   I never really experienced anything like that.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT