MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   How tough is Amen Corner?
JIMMY WALKER:   It's tough.   I hit a great drive down 11 and the wind just picked up right next to 8.   And it kind of let up and I hammered one right through to the back of the green.   I would have been better off going to the bunker.   I had a tight lie.   It played tough, and I had a tough chip in and I made bogey.
12, it was a pretty benign when we played it.   The wind wasn't that much.   It was a 9‑iron from up the middle of the green.
13 I hit a bad tee shot and then I hit a tree and ended up making 6, had a good look for 5.   But would have liked to play 13 a little better, for sure.

Q.   Is it going to get tougher, do you think?
JIMMY WALKER:   It's hard to say.   The wind is swirling down there and it's kind of all over the place today.   So definitely‑‑ you've got to watch it.

Q.   On 13, to come back with four straight birdies, what kind of turned it around for you there?
JIMMY WALKER:   I was driving it well all day.   I hit a really good drive up 14 which left me a sand wedge into that pin, which helped to be able to get to it, be able to spin it in there.   And made a good putt there from 15 feet or so.
15 I hit a good drive and I got lucky.   I didn't hit a good second shot.   And it hung up right and short of the green, right on the collar of the rough on the hazard.   I hit a really good pitch to about six feet and made that.
16, great 7‑iron, right at it.   Nice high cut in there to four feet, right underneath it.   Made that.
17, another big drive, wedge to 10 feet and made that one.   So I picked up a little rhythm and that was nice. 
And played 18 pretty well, too.

Q.   Was it everything you thought it would be, your first round around here officially?
JIMMY WALKER:   It was cool.   I definitely felt a little jitters on the first green.   I had a long putt up the hill.   And I thought it was uphill, not sure.   Hit a good putt and settled in.   It was great. 

Q.   Your round could have gone either way after 13?
JIMMY WALKER:   It could have.   But you can't do that to yourself.   It's a long week.   And 14, 15 are birdie holes, and just wasn't thinking I was going to make four in a row, but just keep hitting good shots.   Andy, my caddie, said hit a good drive and get a good look.   It just happens.   You can't ever give up, you never know what's going to happen.

Q.   The course is so different on Thursday than it was earlier in the week.   And you take your first crack at it, how much did you see that?
JIMMY WALKER:   You could see the greens were really‑‑ they're starting to look a little more brown.   They are getting a little firmer, a little faster.   I think they'll probably be‑‑ I think there would be a big change for us playing this morning to tomorrow afternoon.

Q.   You talked about the depth of talent here?
JIMMY WALKER:   I don't know, like I said here earlier, guys know how to play golf and it's a matter of going out and doing your homework and knowing where to hit and not where to hit it.   I did a pretty good job of that today.   I hit it down short and right on 5, and that's pretty much‑‑ all three of us hit it down there.   Two of us three‑putted.   It's tough.   You know where to go and where not to go.   When to try to take advantage.

Q.   Let's talk about how the course can change from day‑to‑day.   Did you see anything different today than you did in any of your practice rounds?
JIMMY WALKER:   Nothing too crazy.   I think it's been a nice progression since the rain, that it's gotten a little quicker, and‑‑ but you could see it out there today that they were starting to‑‑ I don't want to say brown out, but they were starting to look like they were a little darker in color‑‑ not darker in color, but just kind of brown out, they're getting firmer and quicker.

Q.   What's keeps you to not get so excited, because you were looking forward to this so much.   Did you find yourself during the round to take deep breaths and calm down that maybe you wouldn't do in another tournament?
JIMMY WALKER:   You know, it definitely felt like‑‑ not birdieing 2 was a bummer, not birdieing 8 was a bummer.   But like I said I knew I had to stay patient.   I tried as hard as I could, but it was tough, especially bogeying 13.   I felt like I had really given quite a bit away there.   But just stuck with it.   I knew I shouldn't have given up.   I knew I had to stay with it and see what happens.   And then it happened.

Q.   On 13, I'm sure you've already talked about it, would you mind doing it again?
JIMMY WALKER:   I kind of hit a little straight ball through up and into the trees.   I had really not a lot and I had to keep it really low and it came out fading a little bit and it hit a tree and came literally right back to me.   I pitched it right down to about‑‑ I think we had 105 yards, and I had a great shot to the back pin, and it was about five feet, it was right behind it.   And it was just click, click, click off, and I missed it.   Ended up making another four footer for bogey. 

Q.   How did you play the 14?
JIMMY WALKER:   14 I killed the drive and had a sand wedge into that middle pin.

Q.   Your drive on 14, did it have anything to do with the 6 on 13?
JIMMY WALKER:   No, I had a good pass on it.   I had a really good pass on 11, really hit one hard.   That was really the first drive of the day where I really tried to get one out there.   And then 14 I hit a big one.
15 I didn't go at it as much.   And 17, 18, stepped on them pretty good. 

Q.   15 was what?
JIMMY WALKER:   I hit 3‑iron in.   It was like 230‑ish, and just caught it a little heavy and short and it stayed up.   I took advantage of it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT