SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 4, 2014
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JIMMY WALKER:   I hit it better -- hit more fairways.   Hit some better iron shots into the greens and started making some putts.   Kuchar was making some, so I figured I'd jump on the bandwagon.   Made a few more putts today and it was nice.  
   
 Q.   For the most part the conditions were a little breezier, little warmer and drier.   How much better did that round feel than to go low on a tougher day than yesterday?  
JIMMY WALKER:   Feels good.   Yesterday was kind of right there, just didn't get a whole lot going, wasn't hitting it very close.   I had a couple of 3-putts yesterday that kind of killed the round.   Today it was right in front of me and got a few putts to go and hit the other shots.  
   
 Q.   Getting into contention in Texas, do you like it?  
JIMMY WALKER:   It's nice.   I had a buddy from Texas, "This is your state.   You'll play good today."   If I can control that, I will.   Yeah, it's nice to play.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel going into the weekend?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I feel good.   I feel like I'm hitting it good and my putts are going back in, and so I'm looking forward to the weekend and see what happens.   Lot of playing out here is managing your game.   The week I played really well and won, I felt like I was managing my golf game well.   I was getting it up and down.   If I missed a green, I was in the right spot for an easy up and down.   
I think when you're really playing well, you make a lot of putts.   I just kind of went through a stretch where I wasn't making a ton.   I think that plays a lot into it.  
   
 Q.   Your focus now, how in the world did I go 180 starts and never win and then I win three?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I haven't thought about that.   When you do win, that wasn't as hard as I thought it was going to be.   Then you do it again and again.   I can see where guys just get very comfortable doing it and it's like a management game, you manage it a little better and tidy things up and play better.   I think that's what has been missing for nine holes of a tournament when I played really well and I'd finish 2nd, 3rd, whatever, so I think that's the difference.  
   
 Q.   There had to be times out there you're thinking goes, I'm never going to win.  
JIMMY WALKER:   I didn't think I was never going to win.   It was a little frustrating for sure.  
   
 Q.   Made any trips to Augusta?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I was there about three weekends ago.   I was there back in December.   Both times there it was very cold and wet.  
   
 Q.   Three weekends ago?  
JIMMY WALKER:   No.   It's in great shape.   They were getting it ready for the member/member.   It was right.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel like it fits your game?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I feel like it's a great golf course.   I mean, it's a golf course that it's tough but a good one.   I've played it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT