NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 13, 2014
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How does this rank, coming here far as keeping your momentum going and being excited about playing the tournament?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I was very excited to come this week.   Like I said, I'm always excited to come here.   It's a great old‑style golf course and I love how the tee boxes are all squared off and green complexes are really nice, and the golf course is in great shape.   I like it when it's firm and fast and it always excites me to come here.   
   
 Q.   What did you do on 10?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I hit 3‑wood right in front of the green.   If I would have been ten feet more to the lefty would have more of a direct line at the flag and I was right at the front and my ball was sitting down a little bit in the fairway and I had to hit a little flip over the corner of a bunker and it was a tough shot and didn't come out quite as good as I wanted to, and it was sitting down and I made it off the green and I made about a 15‑, 16‑footer or something from just off green for birdie.   It was nice to get that especially getting such a good drive in front of the hole.   
   
 Q.   In terms of venue, what's special about the Northern Trust Open?   
JIMMY WALKER:   I think it's just coming here to Riviera, the clubhouse, the first tee shot, everything is right up on the hill.   I walked out of the clubhouse today and to the putting green and you can see just down the first hole, it's a cool par 5 because it's all right out in front of and you just kind of says, here I am, and the whole golf course is like that.   10 is the best, I think it's probably one of the best holes we play all year and it was 270 to the front so it's got a lot of character and I enjoy it.   
   
 Q.   On 11, you had a huge drive, second shot kind of looked like it went hard right.   Was it a mud ball or sitting down?   
JIMMY WALKER:   It was three inches off the fairway and I hit it really far down there and it was really sitting in a hole in that rough.   It could have been a lot better, but I went in after it and I thought I could get it to squirt up there on the front left but came out dead right instead of on my line.   I thought the grass would grab the club just a little bit more than it did and keep it more in line but it didn't.   
   
 Q.   Do you sense more buzz as you walk the fairways as the galleries follow you?   
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, you can feel it.   I can feel it.   I can hear it.   It's different.   It just is.   It's really fun to have everybody watch last week and said good job and way to win and keep it going, and so it's fun.   
   
 Q.   What's your game plan the next couple days?   
JIMMY WALKER:   Just keep hitting the greens, make some putts, try not to make any bogeys.   
   
 Q.   You shook off obviously a bad break at 11 and made another bogey, and coming back down the stretch to make a 3 like you had, is that something Jimmy walker does a year ago?   
JIMMY WALKER:   I think so.   I've always had a pretty decent, what do you call it, the bounce back stat.   I make a lot of birdies.   I tend to make a lot of birdies and birdies after bogeys.   It happens.   That's a special deal.   You just don't birdie the last three holes here.   It's tough to do.   Just go with it.   Started happening, hit good shots and try not to think about the next hole.   Hit a really good shot into 16 to a foot and then two good shots into 17 and made a nice putt and then the drive on 18, I just lost it just a fraction to the right and hit a great shot to the back of the green and made that long putt, so it was nice.   You're not always going to make that putt on 18.   
I had 184 and hit 8‑iron into the rough, had a flyer lie and went after it.   
   
 Q.   With the extra attention you're getting from the media, is that something that you have to endure or enjoy?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I think you have to do both, because if you don't enjoy it‑‑ I think you have to enjoy it.   It's why you play.   It's part of the deal.   You play and you play good, and this is what happens, so you have to enjoy it.   I don't know what it's like for some of those guys that are going 40 times and they have done this a ton, so I don't know what that's like but right now, enjoy it, it's fun, it's a good place to be.   
   
 Q.   17, where did that leave you?   
JIMMY WALKER:   I was just in front of the green, just short and left.   We had 263 to the front, my ball was two inches in the rough, and it was a pretty good shot uphill, I think it's playing 275 or something to the front, 300‑plus to the flag so I was just trying to get it right up in front of the green.  
   
 Q.   A lot of guys don't know what it's like to win three times; is it what you thought it would be like?   
JIMMY WALKER:   I don't know, I think I'm still processing it all.   I've never done this right here, stood in the room like this and talked and answered questions like this.   It's always kind of been sitting down in the media room and stuff.   But I don't know, this is where you want to be and this is why you want to play and play good, to answer questions I think.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT