AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 9, 2014
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   That looked excruciating out there.   
JIMMY WALKER:   I struggled a little bit with the speed of the greens, on the uphill/downhill.   And the two 3‑putts, I hate 3‑putting.   I had two of them back there and definitely didn't want another one on the last.   
   
 Q.   It seems like the ghosts of champions past are never going to let a champion win here.   Did you have a sense of history out there?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I did.   At the beginning of the week, you know, it's a long time ago, but my caddie and I were going, wouldn't it be fun to walk down 18 and have a chance to win this thing on the 18th hole.   And he reminded me about that, after I was kind of feeling down on the‑‑ after the two shots coming into the green.   And I said, yeah, man, this is what it's all about.   This is why we are here.  
   
 Q.   Talk about that pre‑shot routine and that 5‑footer.   
JIMMY WALKER:   I tried to blank everything out that was going on.   I just went about it, tried to go about it as businesslike as possible.   I watched it going by, it was very straight, and I just‑‑ it started to curl off to the left, but I blocked everything out.   Don't watch the putt, keep your head down, stuff I probably should have thought about the last couple holes.  
   
 Q.   Six shoot lead as you approached the 10th tee.   Some bogeys on the back nine, and that being said, how uncomfortable or maybe stressful for you, on that closing nine?  
JIMMY WALKER:   Well, it's a different feeling when have a lead like that.   It's like no pars are going to be good enough and guys really started playing good.   You got to hand it to the guys who shot good rounds today.   I thought it was kind of out there, but I just struggled a little bit with the speed of some of these greens and some of the chipping and I hate 3‑putting, but I had a couple.   But, I managed not to do it on the last hole, I made a really good putt.  
   
 Q.   What were you thinking over that final putt?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I was thinking, get setup, keep your head down, don't watch the putt, make a good stroke.   And I think I peaked on 17 there and so I learned from it.   
   
 Q.   You won three times this season, arguably the hottest player on the planet right now, where do you think you are against the upper echelon of golf players right now?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I don't know, that's not up for me to decide.   I just go out and play golf.   This is what I want to do and I've worked really hard to do it, to be here, and to be in this position and it's really cool.   I'll let you guys figure all that stuff out.   
   
 Q.   I talked to you at Torrey Pines, and you said how much you want to be on that UnitedStates Ryder Cup team.   You're all but on that team now, what does that mean to you?  
JIMMY WALKER:   It's really cool.   It's going to be a dream come true to do something like that.   And I look forward to the rest of the year leading up to that and I'll take a lot from today I think, into that.  
   
 Q.   You also move inside the Top‑25 for your win here.   
JIMMY WALKER:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   You were killing us as you were standing over that putt.   What were your thoughts as you were standing over it?  
JIMMY WALKER:   Just keep your head down and make a good stroke, and we did.   It was one of the better ones of the back nine.  
   
 Q.   A little hard to swallow while walking up 18 after what happened at 17?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I wasn't in the best frame of mind, but I knew I still had a one shot lead and it was just an iron off the tee and get it down there and have a wedge.   And that's what we did.   And I made it a little more dramatic than it needed to be, but.  
   
 Q.   Three wins already this year, what's the secret?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I played a lot of different golf courses, each golf course is a lot different, different conditions, and it's just a matter of seeing what the week brings you and adjusting to each week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT