AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 7, 2014
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   Jimmy Walker, thanks for joining us, 3‑under 69 at Spyglass today at the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro‑Am.   Obviously, you have had great success here your last three starts, you finished in the top‑10 and here you are in great position again heading into the weekend.   And with that, just some comments on round two today.   
JIMMY WALKER:   I had three birdies today.   And I didn't make any bogeys, which was nice.   It just played pretty tough.   We got out early, and played the back first, and I got a birdie‑‑ I made just a bunch of really good par saves up until about No. 16.   I hit a really good 3‑wood and hit 7‑iron to the middle of the green and made like a 30‑footer or something up the hill.   
And that kind of got me, kind of felt like it kind of righted the ship, because I was making a bunch of just scrambling pars.   
And then made a couple of pars around to number 3, the downhill par‑3 and hit a nice pitch in there.   I think it was an 8‑iron down the hill.   Wind was really starting to blow at that point out there on the point.   
I made about a, I don't know, 15, 18‑footer or something there for birdie.   
And then made a couple more good pars.   Made a really good par up the hill coming back up the hill on 6.   And then 7, hit a really good‑‑ I hit a good drive up the right and it kind of hung and apparently, it hit the side of the cart path and literally kicked 60 yards out left of the fairway into the first cut and then I hit 8‑iron into that green.   Just right of the green and got that up‑and‑down for birdie.   And then hit two really good shots into 8 and 9 but didn't get the putts to go.  
   
 Q.   What was your yardage on 7?  
JIMMY WALKER:   174 to the pin.   
   
 Q.   What was it?  
JIMMY WALKER:   174 to the pin.   
   
 Q.   What is it about this tournament?   Do the courses suit your game or are you more relaxed because of the format?  
JIMMY WALKER:   Gosh, I wish I really knew.   I do like playing golf out here.   I think that playing Pebble Beach is pretty amazing.   We, every time we come out here and we play, and we're playing a practice round the other day and it was beautiful out and we're like, wow, we're really out here kind of doing this.   And it's pretty cool.   
But I'm from Texas.   I didn't play on this grass growing up, I don't know, I just enjoy it.   I seem to play well out here.   I really like playing Riviera next week.   And all the‑‑ I didn't play well at Torrey a couple weeks ago, but I enjoy playing there.   
So, I don't know what it is.   But, I do like playing out here.   
   
 Q.   Talk about scrambling a little bit today.   Is it going to be that way this weekend and also the rest of the tournament?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I don't know how I'm going to hit it, or what's going to happen, or what the weather is going to do.   So, I'm sure there will be a lot of scrambling.   It's MPCC tomorrow.   I don't know what the weather is going to do, you just don't know.   I don't think the weather man knows what's going on, honestly.  
   
 Q.   Is it good to have Pebble out of the way in case the weather gets ridiculous?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I've never really played Pebble when it's been ‑‑ I hear it can get really gnarly out here.   I hear the stories of guys hitting 4 irons into 7.   So, it was nice to play well out there yesterday and get it done, and get it in, and look forward to playing MPCC tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Having won twice, does this feel any different than before you had won at all?   Having a good week.   I don't want to make too big of a deal being up there at 36 holes, but?  
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Is it getting old, Jimmy?  
JIMMY WALKER:   No, it's definitely not old.   
(Laughter.)  
It's what ‑‑ it's just ‑‑ I've been here before and after 36 and after 54 and after 72.   So, I think you just start to get‑‑ you do get more comfortable, and you kind of realize, I think, you start to kind of realize what it takes sometimes.   Before you would think you got to make a ton of birdies and you got to do this and you got to do that.   And a lot of times pars are really good, and staying patient, and trying to ‑‑ you're going to hit good shots, you're going to make a putt.   You might chip one in.   So you got to stay real patient, so that's what I've really tried to do.   And I was tested early today with a bunch of‑‑ hit some poor shots and did some serious scrambling.   Ball wasn't traveling that far this morning at Spyglass.   It was coming up about five or six yards short.   So we kind of dialed that in.   
   
 Q.   What was your most important one do you think?   Your par?  
JIMMY WALKER:   What was huge was on the par‑5, 14?   On the front?   I think it's 14.   Anyway, I hit kind of a drive to the right, and I hit a really good recovery shot out of the trees, up over the trees, into the fairway and then I hit what I thought was a really good 8‑iron and it came up just a little bit short.   Kind of that five yard deal that I was talking about.   The ball landed in the lip and it came back down into the bunker, but it was up against the lip of the bunker, so I had to stand out of the bunker and get really low and flat on it and I was short sided to begin with there.   And I hit a really good shot out, stayed really steady on it, and I flipped it past about 12 feet.   And I made that for par.   
And that was‑‑ that was pretty big to keep it feeling like things were still in my favor, going my way.   I made a really good par the hole before that, made a great 2‑putt from the front of the green to that new back pin they used.   And then just kind of testing you again, I hit one on the downhill par‑3 right there.   Hit one that landed like two feet from the hole, spun back, kind of off to the front of the green.   And then Ken Duke my‑‑ Ken was playing with me and we had the exact same putt.   He was before me, he left his a little short.   So I was like, okay, it's a little slow, and I ran mine by about six feet and now you got that one coming back.   So it was just a lot of little things like that.  
   
 Q.   You don't want those putts out here.   
JIMMY WALKER:   You don't.   And it's tough.   It makes you just want to bang your head against the wall when you do that to yourself.   
DOUG MILNE:   All right, well Jimmy, good luck on the weekend.   Thanks for your time.   
JIMMY WALKER:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT