SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 12, 2014
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   After 88 PGA TOUR starts you get your first victory.   Now you get your second one just five starts later.   How did that happen?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I don't know, I stayed patient.   I said if I didn't make any bogeys today I had enough firepower this week.   I kept making a bunch of bogeys this week and didn't have any today.   I made a really key par putt over on 14 which was really big, and then a string of birdies there which was pretty awesome.  
   
 Q.   Coming down the stretch at the Fry's.com and getting the job done in 2013, did that help you today?  
JIMMY WALKER:   It did.   You learn so much out here, and it took me a long time to do it, and I feel like I did learn a lot this week.   I felt very calm and controlled, so everything is kind of the same.   That's what you've got to feel and do when it's time to win.   It's easy to say, hard to do.   But today was awesome.   I felt in control all day, emotions (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   There are contenders and then there are closers.   You closed it out with birdies at 15, 16 and 17.   
JIMMY WALKER:   It was awesome.   I found a divot on 15 but it was actually nice because it helped the shot shape I needed to get in there and hit a good cut out of there.   Hit a really good shot at Grapevine, another good shot at 16, good shot in there, made another putt, and the shot on 17 was really good.   I was pretty happy with that one.   Tough shot.   
   
 Q.   Speaking of good shots, how about the drive and approach at 13?  
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, that was good.   You know, that was a tough putt to read.   Jeff missed that putt, too, and I had it going pretty straight.   Felt like it was going to go to the left a little bit but the green was holding it, and it ended up going out to the right a little bit.  
   
 Q.   How did you keep your patience on the front nine?   You had just one birdie in the first eight holes but you stayed within yourself.   
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, my caddie, I think, on 8, I didn't get a great look into the green from there, and he just said, let's get par out of here and hit a good drive down 9 and we'll get it going at 9, and that's kind of what we did.   So it was pretty cool.  
   
 Q.   Who leads the FedExCup standings?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I betcha it's me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT