SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 16, 2013
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome Jimmy walker.   Jimmy, you're coming off a big win last week at the Frys.com Open.   Just kind of talk about the last couple days after your first win on the PGA TOUR.
JIMMY WALKER:   I had a nice dinner Sunday night with the Frys people.   It was really cool.   We had a really good time.   They were very excited about 500 points and the trip to Augusta.   They were ecstatic.   I flew home.   I stayed at CordeValle that night.   They put me up at CordeValle and it was a great place.   I've never stayed there before.   And I flew home Monday and hung out with the family and the boys. 
We had a great night Monday night, and we tried to go grab a good bottle of wine, but it was Columbus Day in Utah and the State of Utah runs the liquor stores, so they were all closed, so we couldn't get a good bottle of wine, so that was kind of a bummer.   But we made it to Vegas yesterday, just my wife and I, and we're staying at the Bellagio and having a good time so far.   It's been fun, it's been nice having all the guys saying congrats and all that this week.   So it's been cool.

Q.   How do things feel different in the two or three days?   Any different?
JIMMY WALKER:   They do feel a little different.   I'm excited about the tournaments that are coming, tournaments I've never played in.   I feel pretty‑‑ I feel confident.   I feel like I've been playing well.
Last week was a nice validation of the way I've felt and the way I feel like I've been playing all year, and everybody just says just keep plugging.   It's a matter of time, it's a matter of time; and it's nice that it happened last week.   I played really well, putted really well all week, and it was cool.

Q.   Did you guys grow up in Utah?
JIMMY WALKER:   No, we didn't.   Well, my wife's family is from there, so we spend a lot of time up there.   Pretty nice place to hang out.   Park City.

Q.   Do you feel like you had a little bit of an advantage or do you think it's because‑‑
JIMMY WALKER:   You mean at the start of a new year? 

Q.   Yeah, yeah.   I mean‑‑
JIMMY WALKER:   I've never‑‑ I've never won, I've never locked up two or three years' worth of status before.   I've never really had that.   Even coming off Web.com, you know, you win out there, you play good, you go to the next level.   And I feel like every year I've always started off a ground zero and I'd have to keep working and working and working and start from the ground up. 
And it feels interesting to win, and you win the first one, and you know, it's a little bit‑‑ you know, your emotions are a little different.   That's the way it feels like to me anyway.   We got a long year ahead, and I look forward to the next three weeks that I'm playing, this week and the next two weeks. 
China is going to be fun.   I can't wait to start the new year.   And we get to play in the new year in Hawaii and Kapalua.   I get to, and I've never got to do that before.   So a lot of really cool stuff is happening, and it's been great; it's been fun.

Q.   (Inaudible). 
JIMMY WALKER:   I don't know.   It's new for everybody.   I think we were all‑‑ it's like we were running around on the range last week and like we couldn't figure out what was going on, is it new, is it old.   Is it‑‑ we don't know what's going on.   Happy new year?   A lot of that kind of stuff. 
So it'll be interesting to see how it plays out.   I know more and more guys will start showing up and playing.   It was pretty fast, especially the guys that finished up the four playoff events and Presidents Cup, and I think more guys will start showing up and playing.   It seems like the two overseas are going to have a pretty good field. 

Q.   Any difficulties getting a visa for China?
JIMMY WALKER:   We're working on it.   I just got a call I need to go to Walgreen's and get a passport photo.   I'm like I have a passport; why do I need a new photo?   I don't understand.   So we're going to have to figure that out.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JIMMY WALKER:   I have a passport.   Apparently they need a photo.   So I don't know.

Q.   For the paperwork. 
JIMMY WALKER:   For the paperwork. 
THE MODERATOR:   That part of the government is not shut down.
JIMMY WALKER:   I've heard that I've got‑‑ there's one way to do it.   I'm going to have to go to Hong Kong after Malaysia and hang out for day and wait for my visa to clear, and then I get to go to Shanghai.   So I might be like Tom Hanks in that movie, trapped in an airport.   I don't know.

Q.   Good shopping. 
JIMMY WALKER:   I could go shopping.   Yeah, I don't know if they'll let me out of the airport.   I don't know.   I don't have a visa to get in.   I don't know.   I don't know how that works.   I've never been.

Q.   Next stop after this?   Walgreen's?
JIMMY WALKER:   Probably.

Q.   Have you played Malaysia?
JIMMY WALKER:   I did.   I played the last couple of years.

Q.   What was that like?
JIMMY WALKER:   Malaysia is great.   It's a long way to get there.   They do a really good job setting up the tournament.   The hotel is nice.   The golf course is nice.   We're playing a new golf course this year.   It's really humid and hot there.   It's kind of a shock to the system a little bit. 
It'll be interesting, we don't get in till late Tuesday afternoon, late evening.   We don't get to the hotel to probably 5, 6 or 7 or something like that and run out and play the Pro‑Am the next morning and hopefully try to get on a decent sleep pattern.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JIMMY WALKER:   I think so.   We were going to maybe play Cancun.   I wasn't going to play McGladrey, but Cancun was kind of up in the air.   We're going to cross that bridge here in a little bit, but right now I think it's just going to be these next two after this one.

Q.   Sounds like a good next couple weeks. 
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, it's good.   I've enjoyed the off season.   After the last two or three years, I've enjoyed having that month and a half, two months off at home. 
It's nice to recharge the batteries, let your body kind of cool off for a little bit and then get going again in January.   So I'm going to enjoy the time off.   Seems like it starts up a little earlier this year over the new year. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
JIMMY WALKER:   I did. 

Q.   Can you explain what that emotionally was like?
JIMMY WALKER:   You know, I walked up on the first tee and I thought I was playing with three amputees, and it turns out they were all born without a leg.   And to hear the stories of what they've done, and the 16‑year‑old kid that hit it driver 3‑wood on 9 to nine feet, ten feet, you know, nice little two‑putt birdie; and I think we're leading the tournament. 
And Jeff, the four‑ or five‑time medallist at the Para Olympics, and Rowe runs a successful business in Illinois.   And I mean it's really cool.   These guys really played well.   They played amazing.   Probably the truest handicaps of anybody in the field, I think, this week.   Rowe had zero.   16‑year‑old kid, Austin, had four shots.   And Jeff had 16.   And I mean we shot 13‑under.   It was pretty cool.   They played really good. 
So I was‑‑ we had a great time.   I had a good time with them.   Andy had a good time, my caddie.   The parents were out there.   They were taking pictures and having fun, and it was cool.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah.   It was neat.   It was neat.   They played really well, and you know, they're out there and they're just golfers.   You know, other people see them and they're missing a leg, and after a while, you watch their golf swings, and they post up great on the left leg and they do everything really well. 
I saw a couple of them have some tough lies and stances and it was like it was second nature to them.   So it was cool.   I'll remember it, and I'm glad‑‑ I hope they had a good time, and I mean they played really well, and they may win the thing.   So they'll remember for a long time. 

Q.   When did you start working with Butch?
JIMMY WALKER:   I started working with Butch‑‑ I went and had a lesson with him in like February of last year or the year before. 

Q.   How would you describe the work?
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, the year before.

Q.   Just little stuff or did you guys do a fair amount of overhaul?
JIMMY WALKER:   It was just a little‑‑ you know, he saw a couple little things that he wanted to fix to kind of, you know, maybe make it a little easier to get the club in the position I was getting it into, and then some corrective things on the way down, but continually work on hitting through the ball, not hanging back so much, just lifelong deal of, you know, teeing it high, getting underneath it, flipping it, you know.   Just how kids kind of play golf. 
I didn't have a lesson until I was a junior in college, and I had a really good teacher get ahold of me and really show me how to really control the golf swing.   Bryan Gathright, and he and I worked for a long time.   And just like everything, you go through peaks and valleys with everybody, coaches.   And I sought out Butch, and he took me on, and it's been good.   It's been really enjoyable working with him.

Q.   Do you usually see him on the road or do you come to Vegas a fair amount?
JIMMY WALKER:   I come to Vegas quite a bit and try to see him.   And he does a good job of getting out.   He does a lot of the bigger events, and I wasn't in the bigger events when I was seeing him.   And I think that if you don't have the work done before tournaments start, you know, that's kind of‑‑ you know, you want to get it done before you show up.   And he's really good at fixing stuff on the fly, and I had two or three really good days with him last week before the Frys, and I was over hitting some balls with him yesterday.   So he's been good. 
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Everybody good?   Thanks a lot, Jimmy. 
JIMMY WALKER:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT