THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 12, 2013
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JIMMY WALKER:   I hit some good shots, like 4 I hit one in there just right of the hole, had about an eight‑footer, made that.   Then I made a really good putt on the next hole, about a 25‑footer.   Made another close one in on 6, made that, about eight feet.   
8 I hit one in there about 10 feet and just missed it.   9, I made a good par.   
11, made a good little like 10‑footer there, made a‑‑ on 12 we went for the green, knocked it right up by the green, chipped it on, had a tough chip, made like a 10‑ or 12‑footer there.   Was in the front bunker in two on 16, got that up‑and‑down, made about a five‑footer, and I was making the putts you need to make to keep the round going.  
   
 Q.   Naturally on Sunday when it's too late, it seems easy, right?  
JIMMY WALKER:   Well, there's nothing too late.   It's still hard and you still want to go play well.   I put the pressure on myself to go play well.  
   
 Q.   It's not like it wasn't windy, either.   
JIMMY WALKER:   No, I thought it played tough, and I thought I played really well.   I did, I played really well.   17 was a bummer; I'm standing there and the wind was blowing right in my face, and as soon as I made contact it switched, and it carried‑‑ I had 9 and I went back to wedge because I wanted to hit wedge, I wanted the wedge shot.   I was pretty sure it was a 9 but I wanted to hit the wedge, and I hit the wedge and the wind switched and two‑hopped it in the drink.   I hit it right on my line, hit it right on the bank, and it would have caromed down, and I was going for it.   I was going for‑‑ I wanted to birdie it, wanted to hit a good shot and post a pretty low number.   I wouldn't do anything different.   I hit a good shot.  
   
 Q.   Good way to finish the week, though, with a round like that.   
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah.   Couldn't really get anything going this week.   Felt like I was hitting it fine, a lot of bogeys, didn't play the par‑5s as well as I should have.   But it was always right there and today showed it was right there.   
   
 Q.   A bit of frustration you finally conquer 8, had trouble with that the first three rounds, and then 17 bites you?  
JIMMY WALKER:   It's just 8 is‑‑ I don't know what that is.   I hit it in the same bunker every day and today I finally hit a good shot, just lipped it out.  
17 I hit a good shot.   I can't do anything about it.  
   
 Q.   You were in the bunker all three days on 8?  
JIMMY WALKER:   The first three days I was.   
   
 Q.   The grind is over.   Are you relaxed, relieved, tired, happy?   You look tired.   
JIMMY WALKER:   I'm disappointed.   I wish we would have figured that out.   I can't do anything about it.   It's just a bummer circumstance.   I hit a good shot.   I hit good shots all day.   I think I only missed one shot today honestly.   It was on the par‑3, 13, I hit a pretty bad iron shot there, but for the most part‑‑  
   
 Q.   You hit a great chip, though.   
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, I got it up‑and‑down.   It was a bump‑and‑run and then running it down, and I did what I needed to do.   It was good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT