VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 4, 2013
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JIMMY WALKER:   I played good.   I played pretty good for a while, and then I pulled two bad clubs and made two bogeys in a row in the front.   Hit a couple bad shots coming in, and made par, so it was good.  
   
 Q.   Last year you obviously weren't real happy when you walked off the course the first couple of days here, but you're a different golfer today, I think, in a lot of ways.   How much different did you play today?   
JIMMY WALKER:   It played hard today, so it felt like a grind a bit today.   I'm in a better place.   I'm playing really well, and I want to keep playing well.   I'll try to minimize the bogeys.   I left a couple out there today, so that's kind of a bummer, but it played tough.  
   
 Q.   Couple of tee shots got away from you there.   I know on that last hole I saw it on ShotLink, but what happened?   
JIMMY WALKER:   Not good.   I hit it bad.   Just pulled it really fast to the left.   That was probably the worst tee shot of the day, but recovered and made a par.   I'm going to go work on it a little bit.  
   
 Q.   What do you take out of this round as far as where you are?   
JIMMY WALKER:   I think under par today is a pretty good score.   So I'll go hit a few balls and work on it a bit.  
   
 Q.   How did you feel out there today?   How tough is this course for people who haven't played it?   
JIMMY WALKER:   It plays tough today.   I think it's designed for a south wind and it's playing with a north wind.   So I think it's a tougher golf course than anticipated.   It played tough, lots of wind, and it got to me a little bit on the back nine.   But we'll go work on it this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   We were there with a few different groups coming through, and you obviously had the loudest ovations and the most support.   How much does that mean to have people come out here and support you?   
JIMMY WALKER:   It means a lot.   A lot of friends and family are here.   It will get bigger as the week goes.   So it's fun.   It's nice to be home.  
   
 Q.   Do you like that extra eyes and stuff, or are you one of those guys that would rather have a little less attention as you're going through a course?   
JIMMY WALKER:   It's the same everywhere you go.   There are people always clapping and cheering for you.   You've got fans everywhere.   A little more so here, but it's nice to have‑‑ everybody wants you to do well and the positive energy, you can't beat it.  
   
 Q.   Is this one of those courses that you get a chance to play on when you're not in season?   You can just come out here and play around a little bit?   
JIMMY WALKER:   I do.   I'm a member out here through the PGA TOUR.   So we get to come out here and play and practice as a member does.   And try to get in as many reps as I could before the tournament started.   We were home with the baby about six weeks ago, and I was out here for a full week working on it, checking the golf course out, hitting my numbers, hitting my spots.   So I've been working on it.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned the baby, and I know your wife is very involved in the community.   Can you talk about what she does and how proud you are of her efforts here in San Antonio?  
JIMMY WALKER:   She's a mom, and it's a full‑time job, and she travels with me quite a bit.   So we've got our hands full right now with two‑and‑a‑half almost three‑year‑old and a six‑week‑old.   So our time is pretty well spent right now with them.   She's doing a great job.  
   
 Q.   To be back here in San Antonio, I know it's tough when you don't play as well as you would like on that back nine, but how much fun is this when you get to stop, breathe and come out to a lot of support?   
JIMMY WALKER:   It's nice.   It feels like a different week when you're at home playing in the tournament because your whole routine is completely different.   You go home to your home and do different things than you would normally do.   It's a little different, so there is a little adjustment.   
But it's great to see all my family and a lot of friends I haven't seen in a long time.   This is always a great place to have everybody come out.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT