ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 22, 2013
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   The conditions probably a little better today.   Couple of 3‑under rounds, and you make six birdies today on your second go round on this course?
JIMMY WALKER:   That was a little different wind for us.   I thought it was a little tougher wind.   It just made the golf course play a little different.   Hit it well, hit some really good shots and got a few putts to go in, so it was a good day.

Q.   As you reflect back on the 18 holes, what were those critical shots to keep it going for you? 
JIMMY WALKER:   You know, hit a couple of good shots on the par‑5s coming in, couple of good putts, just some really good putts to kind of keep the round going, get the round going a little bit here and there. 
Nothing stands out.   Just two really good shots into 8 and 9, and I shot the front birdie‑birdie, so that was pretty nice.

Q.   How tough is that 17th playing?   It appears there are just all kinds of variables involved when you play that par‑3? 
JIMMY WALKER:   I always follow it too much.   (Indiscernible) yeah, and so I wish I would have played more for the middle of the green on that one.   But it was nice and downwind for us there, so it wasn't a really difficult shot. 
Yesterday was pretty tough.   It was in the wind and playing pretty tough.   But who knows what the wind will do the rest of the day.

Q.   Sitting at 6‑under right now.   Give me your approach to the weekend here in Orlando? 
JIMMY WALKER:   I look forward to a good week.   Keeping it on fairways and make a few more putts this weekend.

Q.   Think the rust is off after your break? 
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, I think pretty good.   I had a good little tip from my coach the other day, and I put it into play, and it's all pretty good.   So it's real good now.   I'm pretty happy with that.

Q.   Putting or hitting? 
JIMMY WALKER:   I think I'm making really solid contact.   Just kind of not too thick, not really clipping it.   I started hitting it pretty good this week.

Q.   Did you take much time to play on the weeks off? 
JIMMY WALKER:   I didn't do much.   The first week I didn't do anything.   The second week I played a couple of times.   The third week I started hitting balls and getting back into it.   That was down at TPC San Antonio, looking at it, and hitting some shots around the golf course.   Just trying to get another few looks at that before the tournament came up.

Q.   What day was the baby born? 
JIMMY WALKER:   The 21st.

Q.   What's his name? 
JIMMY WALKER:   Beckett.

Q.   Like Josh Beckett? 
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT