FRYS.COM OPEN
October 14, 2012
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You might have a chance to win this golf tournament. 
JIMMY WALKER:   It's funny, on the back we didn't have any scoreboards.   Or on the back nine, our front, we didn't have any scoreboards, so I didn't know what was going on. 
I just kept hitting shots and making some putts, and then you get over there and you see you're kind of right there.   Made a couple more, and unfortunate on 8.   That was such a long putt.   Hadn't had one of those all week. 
But finished it off good.

Q.   Really shooting a low one on the back nine and then going to the front, there's really not a lot of opportunities out there.   It's a tough stretch of holes out there on the front, and that's why the leaders didn't do a whole lot on the front nine. 
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, I played really well on the back yesterday, starting on 10.   And then turned to the front, which I think is the harder of the two, and I didn't do as well. 
Today just kept the pedal down and kept hitting really good shots and I made some good putts.

Q.   You started off with a 73 the first round, 68, 67.   You were trending in the right direction.   What was the difference today?
JIMMY WALKER:   You know, we played in the rain all day on Thursday and it was tough and I struggled a little bit with the golf swing.   Then we worked that on that after the round on the range and it felt good. 
My coach said it looked really good and I liked it and it felt good, and just the rest of the week that's how it felt.   So I was hitting it good. 

Q.   You were getting better and better each day.   How did the place feel to you?   Did you get a better feel for the golf course or something?
JIMMY WALKER:   No, you know, still visually off the tee for me is tough.   I just kind of hammered through it and just kept hitting good shots and stayed patient.
You know, I wasn't putting real well early in the week.   I couldn't get any putts to go in.   Today they all kind of seemed to go in.

Q.   A lot of guys are saying it's birdies, birdies, birdies, but you said to stay patient and the birdies come to you. 
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, you can kind of start to force it a little bit.   On the back nine I actually was going for more pins and knew I was getting close, so I started firing out a few more.

Q.   What do you like about the place?
JIMMY WALKER:   It's gorgeous.   Really pretty.   I love the backdrop of the mountain and hitting shots up against the hill.   It's gorgeous.   All the flowers and the resort is beautiful.

Q.   Did you get to stay here?
JIMMY WALKER:   I didn't. 

Q.   Do you want to? 
JIMMY WALKER:   I was okay at the Holiday Inn Express this week. 

Q.   It's good luck then. 
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT