BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2012
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice round.   What did you think of the course? 
JIMMY WALKER:   I thought it was set up good.   They had a couple of tees up maybe, I think.   It just played real soft.   If you landed in the fairway it wasn't going to bounce in the rough really, and wherever it was hitting, it was sticking.   A lot of mud.   Good we played it up.   Greens are soft and receptive. 

Q.   Not surprising there were a lot of low scores out there?
JIMMY WALKER:   You never know.   I mean, the rough is deep.   The rough is tough.   We had a couple of times today where you get in the rough and you're just hacking it out.   I didn't know what to expect, honestly. 

Q.   What's it like to come to a place where nobody has played a tournament round?   Is it going to be the guy who learns it the quickest?
JIMMY WALKER:   I don't know, it's tough to say that.   It is interesting being at a golf course nobody has played, or played in a while.   In that respect you don't know what to expect, but you just go out and play the golf course and see what it does.   I don't think you can go off pro‑am scores.   We can't even do that because we only played nine holes.   You just kind of go out and see what it gave you today.

Q.   Do you feel like your learning curve was pretty quick today?   Obviously the score reflected it. 
JIMMY WALKER:   You know, we just did our normal preparation for any golf course we go to.   Nothing changed, really.   Really relied on the yardage book, find the lines, and my caddie did a good job of getting prepared for the tee shots because there's a lot of kind of awkward tee shots where you're hitting off.   Pete Dye does a great job of putting a bunker somewhere that it doesn't need to be, and it kind of tricks your mind up a little bit.   Only 200 yards off the tee, but it looks like it's 300 something yards off the tee.   So there's a lot of that.

Q.   That's interesting you said that about Pete Dye.   When you don't know a particular course very well, do you think about the designer and what you know about him a little bit?
JIMMY WALKER:   Well, Pete does a lot of visual stuff.   He's very‑‑ he likes to make you put something in your head, and really a lot of times it has nothing to do with the hole.   You step out on the hole the first time, and you're like, wow, that bunker, can I carry that?   It's only like 230 and you can blow right over it.   There's a lot of that. 

Q.   We've had a lot of rain here this week.   Did that have an effect on the course at all that you saw?
JIMMY WALKER:   Oh, yeah, it's very soft.   We got here, with the hurricane that came up, I think it dumped two or three inches on the golf course, and I heard they hadn't had much rain before that, so it really softened it up.   It's a long golf course.   It's got a couple shorter par‑5s, but I didn't know how long it was going to play.   The wind picked up a little bit and helped on some of the longer holes.

Q.   Given your FedExCup status, are you playing more aggressive right now?
JIMMY WALKER:   No, I don't do that.   I'm trying to just make a bunch of pars and let the birdies fall where they fall.   They're good par‑4s.   Making pars on the par‑4s is kind of what I was wanting to do this week, and take care of the par‑5s and playing the par‑5s well and just kind of take care of that and see what happens.   I'm not trying to be super aggressive, not firing at every flag or anything.   That's where you can get in trouble.   You don't want to get in trouble too quick.   If it comes down to Sunday you might fire at a couple more or whatever.

Q.   Are you one of those guys that doesn't look at your projection?
JIMMY WALKER:   I know I'm going to have to finish like top 6 or 7 to go through.   I'm just going to go play golf.   Whatever happens happens.   I want to make it, but I can't do anything about it except keep plodding along. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT