THE BARCLAYS
August 23, 2012
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Very tidy round out there, five birdies, no bogeys.   How were you able to do it on this layout?
JIMMY WALKER:   I'll have to think about it.   I hit a lot of good shots, and I made some really good up‑and‑downs.   I made two really good up‑and‑downs on 17 and 18 today to close it off.   A lot of solid tee shots, a lot of good putts.   It was a good day.

Q.   I think on the back nine you're probably pointing to the putting.   Just 10 putts in total on that inward nine.   How is that possible?
JIMMY WALKER:   I don't know.   I didn't know that.   I putted really good.   I don't think I hit a ton of greens on the back.   I hit a couple really good shots, gave myself some looks, but just was fighting to get up‑and‑down, and I left myself in some good spots for up‑and‑downs, fat sides of the green, with the only exception 17.

Q.   Are you in such a zone putting wise that you didn't even realize how many putts you had utilized on the back nine?
JIMMY WALKER:   Well, it's that whole mentality one shot at a time, don't look at the past, just keep plugging along, keep looking forward to your next shot.   I really wasn't thinking about anything that had happened throughout the day, so just kept grinding away.

Q.   You've got to be thrilled to start the first round of this first playoff event in this position after your first 18 holes. 
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, I'm excited.   It's a great golf course.   It's really hard.   I played here in the Open in 2002, and I was excited to come back, so I'm excited about starting.

Q.   When you saw the scores from the morning guys did you think 5‑under was out there?
JIMMY WALKER:   Well, you know, the greens had started to firm up a little bit in the afternoon yesterday for the pro‑am, and I said, well, if you can hit some fairways the greens are decently receptive, and I think there are some good scores out there, and the guys this morning showed it, I think. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT