THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 31, 2011
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Jimmy, you started out with a birdie and then you gave it back at 2; you made another birdie 6 at and gave it back at 7. Then at 12 you got the big eagle that got things going. 
 JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, I hit a really good drive, probably the best of the week. Hit a nice 7-iron. Got it in there pretty close and got that one to go.
 Seemed like just couldn't get the ball to go in the hole today. I gave myself some chances all day and just nothing was really falling today. I think I made all of 'em yesterday.

 Q. You had some great looks today, and it looked like you and Bill really found a rhythm there late from the day. 
 JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, we did. I think we both would have liked to have made a few more, you know, kept the momentum going. It was just a little difficult. Couldn't seem to get one to go. 
 He finally made a good putt on 17 to get on in. So it was a struggle, but we were hanging in there all day.

 Q. What were you thinking of doing on 18? Were you thinking that ball was gonna move a little? 
 JIMMY WALKER: Yeah. I had the same putt last year. I know it's a different green, but it ended up breaking pretty good. I hit it right where I wanted to.
 I hit a lot of putts right where I wanted to today. They just didn't seem to go in. 

 Q. Talk about the day.
 JIMMY WALKER: You know, I shot 2-under, but I was hoping for something a little better. Just couldn't seem to get any putts to go in.

 Q. Talk about the week in general?
 JIMMY WALKER: It was a great week. Made the cut on the number, and finishing top 10, that's always a treat. 
 Another good tournament here at Greenbrier for me, so excited to come back next year and try to do a little better.

 Q. What do you think about playing a place like this?
 JIMMY WALKER: It's beautiful. I mean, my wife and I have enjoyed it this week. It's a great place to hang out, the food is amazing, and everybody is so nice. 
 The hotel is great. I don't know how you can't like it.

 Q. Next week?
 JIMMY WALKER: I have a week off, and hopefully that finish got me in the PGA. We'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT