SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2011
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JIMMY WALKER: I'm happy where I'm at. I didn't play very good today. I hit it kind of -- you know, to kind of hang in there, made some good up and downs and kind of kept myself right there. So looking forward to the weekend.

 Q. Weather a little bit of a factor with the wind today?
 JIMMY WALKER: No. No. It really didn't. I just made some -- lot of bad swings and just couldn't really get anything going. It was tough today.

 Q. Is it one of those days that drives you crazy about the day you had yesterday?
 JIMMY WALKER: Yeah. You know, I didn't drive it especially well yesterday. I just got away with a lot of stuff and made a ton of putts. Today I didn't make really hardly anything. Never got it close enough to have too many looks at it. It was miles apart from yesterday.

 Q. Did you find your swing today?
 JIMMY WALKER: Didn't feel good. Really didn't feel great yesterday, but I was getting by it and -- I putted just unbelievably well yesterday. Today just felt kind of about the same and going in the opposite direction.

 Q. You were okay on the range, felt good on the range this morning?
 JIMMY WALKER: Feels okay. It's not great right now, but you got to just still play. Go make some putts. Get up and down and don't miss the green. I was surprised to see it going straight. If it's 5 feet left, it's fine. I actually hit it pretty good. The ball is not quite doing what I want to it do right now. I want it to turn, it's not turning. If I want to fade it, it's not fading.

 Q. What kind of mental attitude do you take into the weekend?
 JIMMY WALKER: Hung in there. I had a great round yesterday and hung in there today. Depending on what the weather does this afternoon, I'll be right there for a good weekend. Be working on the range and figure a few things out.

 Q. Got a lot of friends and family and stuff around?
 JIMMY WALKER: I've got a few friends, few friends out.

 Q. Comfortable to play here? 
 JIMMY WALKER: Off the tee this is not my favorite golf course, just visually setup-wise, but, I mean, it's in great shape. Greens are perfect. You got to love the condition the golf course is in and love the green complexes. But, you know, just off the tee for me this place has always kind of got me a little bit. To be where I am, I'm really happy, honestly.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT