VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 15, 2010
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Okay. Jimmy Walker, thanks for joining us after finally getting through Round 2. Obviously yesterday was quite a long day but the wait obviously paid off, 5-under 67 today. Got you right in the mix. Just a few comments on the round and how you're feeling as we head into what looks like might be 36 holes of golf tomorrow.
 JIMMY WALKER: The round was good today. I drove it really well on the front and I was hitting it really close and gave myself a bunch of good looks. Birdie on 4 is the second day I birdied 4. It was a good hole. Moved the tee up. It was kind of downwind the last couple days, more downwind today. Hit one in there to about -- I made about a 10-footer or so there. 
 4, the short par 4, I hit a good 3-wood up the right side and that hole played a lot longer today. Yesterday I could almost hit 3-wood. I could have hit it on but I was a little left. Today I flipped a wedge in to four, five feet, made that one.
 6, I hit another close one in with a 9-iron to about six, seven feet. Missed that. That was one I would have liked to have gotten. 
 Hit a bad tee ball on 9. The par 5, made a good putt there. Then 9, hit one left, had a big clump of mud on the ball and it went right of the green and with that back pin it was a pretty tough up and down.
 And then got it right back on 10, hit two good shots in there, made about a 15-footer. 
 11, hit another sand wedge in there pretty close, about 6-footer straight up the hill.
 Good save on 12. I hit it left in the trees and hit it really good shot to the front of the green and then I had a really long putt, I don't know how long it was, probably 80, 90 feet or something. I think it was the hardest putt I've ever hit on the PGA Tour. It was way uphill. But I made a good two-putt there and that kept the momentum going.
 Hit a good 4-iron into the par 5, almost made eagle there. Just left it just short right on the lip. And then just some solid pars coming in. 
 17 was tough. The back pin, I hit a good shot in there and just hit on the downslope. The greens are still really firm today even after all that rain. The course drained good, played good.
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Open it up.

 Q. Jimmy, could you talk about familiarity here, it's been an aid for you as far as the fact you've been able to play this course a few times?
 JIMMY WALKER: We played here a bunch, Cameron and I over the winter and as soon as we could get out and making phone calls, can we get out and finally the staff was like yeah. They were great. Got us some golf carts and playing a lot of golf. 
 Tried to get as many rounds as we could over the winter. Played really tough in the winter. Kind of scared about how hard it was. We were -- I think the best any of us shot was like 1-under or something and that was, you know, finding a pretty calm day and we're -- we haven't tipped it out this week yet. I don't know if they're going to. 
 It's a hard golf course and getting that many guys around it's tough. They got some tough pins and some tough greens. It was nice to get a lot of rounds in. It really helped.

 Q. You had a good solid start to the year, a little swoon and last week The Players, have you stumbled on to something or have you returned to something in your swing that's got you playing so solidly?
 JIMMY WALKER: I haven't stumbled on. I missed three cuts in a row there after making a bunch in a row I didn't feel like -- I wasn't hitting it bad at all, I was just playing bad. You can hit it well and play bad. 
 I was playing bad golf. I felt like -- I knew I was close to playing good and last week I played -- I felt like I didn't really do much different than I had the previous three weeks, just kind of the rounds kind of came together, kept some momentum, found a little and kept it when I found it. 
 I've been -- in the last couple of weeks -- I wasn't birdieing the par-5s. Felt like I was getting a little behind the round a little bit. It's nice to stay on top of it and keep it rolling. That's what I felt last week and this week, too, finding a little momentum and keeping it.

 Q. I guess last week the final round a little bit of a stumble for you. As far as your scoring average going into last week you were 13th on the Tour and -- in your final round scoring average. 
 What kind of encouragement is that the way you've been closing this year knowing you've got 36 holes tomorrow?
 JIMMY WALKER: Once I got to the weekend I've been playing pretty well. I haven't been starting well. I haven't been shooting any good rounds starting the tournament. I feel like I've gotten way behind and it's hard to claw your way back from the back of the pack. I've been doing it but it's not fun. It's nice to get out and make the cut, you know, fairly easily and have two good rounds and then carry that into the weekend.
 I've always felt like I've kind of been clawing back a little bit but got off to a good start this week, made a couple bogies coming in but that was just -- I was hitting it in the wrong spot on the holes that I bogeyed.
 So, I've been feeling good and I knew I was playing good. I knew I was hitting it well and things were close.

 Q. Can you talk about your year last year, was it really discouraging, you went back to Q-School?
 JIMMY WALKER: I didn't have to go back to Q-School. I finished 125th on the Money List. No, I was not discouraged at all (laughter).
 DOUG MILNE: Okay. Jimmy, we appreciate your time and best of luck tomorrow in what looks like will be a long day but hopefully a prosperous one for you.
 JIMMY WALKER: Let's do it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT