CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 15, 2009
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good putt. Nice up-and-down. Did you have any idea?
 JIMMY WALKER: I knew it was close. 

 Q. Have you been in this position before where you're playing for your job. Are you able to put it out of your mind or does that come into your mind at all?
 JIMMY WALKER: No. It's not my favorite tee shot in the world, and I just made a poor swing. I hit a great shot from out of the trees, like I was supposed to, and I hit two really good putts, but both of them didn't go in. And yeah, you're nervous, you know. But you gotta deal with it.

 Q. (Indiscernible).
 JIMMY WALKER: I knew I needed to get up-and-down. Chip in, get up-and-down, whatever. 

 Q. What's going through your mind, trying to block that out?
 JIMMY WALKER: No. I just reset my line. It didn't look right. I don't putt until it looks good, and I got it where it looked good, and just went through my routine and got set and made sure to drop the shoulders and keep the head down, you know. That's it. I've been putting good all week, and this was left center, it's not that hard of a putt. 

 Q. You figured to keep your card or lose your card?
 JIMMY WALKER: No. I mean I didn't think that. I just wanted to make it, you know. I wasn't thinking, oh, my gosh, if I miss this, I'm going to not get my card. I really kept telling myself it doesn't really matter. I was going to play golf on the PGA TOUR. I was going to play in the finals and just go out and play hard. And I was playing really good. That 17th hole got me. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 JIMMY WALKER: Yeah. You have to. I mean you have to. You can't get up there thinking, oh, don't hit it in the lake or don't hit it short. Pick your target. We say our target out loud every time before we hit it. So you can be held accountable for where you're going. That's where we're going. That's where I'm going to hit it. 
 So I think if you pick your target, you know, I think it's easier. You know, you're just kind of broad stroking out there if you don't. It doesn't help you that much. So try to pick your spot out there in the fairway and try to hit a good shot.

 Q. You're one of two guys that went from outside to inside. You must be very proud of the 11th hour hail Mary despite the burp there on the last. It looks like you're going to get out of this thing not having to play in December. 
 JIMMY WALKER: I hope. 

 Q. You had a terrific run today. 
 JIMMY WALKER: Only really got to play -- I played two tournaments in the Fall Series, not including this one. I got a little sick at Vegas. I think I got the swine flu, and my shoulder went out on me in Phoenix, so I had to withdraw. And we got rained out at Jackson. I really hadn't played any golf, tournament golf. So it's hard coming in here because I haven't been able to practice. I've been hurt and haven't been able to do much. I'm really proud of the way I played today. I haven't been doing much. 

 Q. How long were you sick?
 JIMMY WALKER: About 12 days. 

 Q. Really? During the Vegas week?
 JIMMY WALKER: Yeah. 

 Q. Can you talk about then how satisfying it is coming in here this year, knowing what you had to do?
 JIMMY WALKER: It feels good. No matter what happens, it feels good to come in and play well, you know. I'm not even going to count 17. I played solid all week, kept it in the fairway, kept hitting great shots. You know, and I did a lot of stuff really well, so I'm excited about that. And I think you know, the limited amount of tournaments I get, 125, 150 next year, I think I'm in a better spot now than I was. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 JIMMY WALKER: I honestly didn't know where he was at. I didn't look at the leaderboard all day. I swear I didn't know how it was projected. The only thing I kept looking at was what the leader was because I was trying to make birdies and go chase it down. I was playing good. I can't complain. 

 Q. Which shoulder was it?
 JIMMY WALKER: Left. 

 Q. How did you do it?
 JIMMY WALKER: Kind of a fluke deal. My therapist thought it was some kind of viral deal setting in the joint. I just couldn't swing with it. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 JIMMY WALKER: I mean, here's one for you. I had to withdraw because of my neck in the final round. I didn't even get paid. 

 Q. Do you know where you were?
 JIMMY WALKER: Transitions. I was going to make at least 10 grand, 10 or 12 grand. 

 Q. That's what I was thinking, too many other things happening. 
 JIMMY WALKER: You can't think about that. I can't think of the one tournament or something. I just wanted to throw that in there. I think that's kind of a funky rule where, you know, you make the cut, you should get paid. It should count. You should get paid because you make the cut. I come down to the last putt, and I get -- a car comes out and runs me over and I can't finish and I shoot 65, I got a putt for 65. That doesn't count? You know. 

 Q. Would have been something. 
 JIMMY WALKER: Would have been something. May be the difference. 

 Q. Was there a time where the shoulder and the swine flu were overlapping and you were feeling down on your luck at that point? You're puking and your shoulder's out?
 JIMMY WALKER: You can't look at it like that. You can't think poor me. Nobody cares out here. They really don't. They're fighting for their own job, you know. You're out here by yourself. You know, it's hard. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT