SBS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 6, 2017
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The birdies were a little harder to come by today but you're still 3-under par today and certainly in the mix on the weekend?  
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, I stayed patient.  Just nothing was really kind of happening.  I hit a lot of good shots.  Just didn't make any putts.  A lot of lips.  I had a couple horseshoes and a couple of tight lipouts.   
Compared to yesterday, yeah, sure felt like a lot, but 3-under is great.  I'll take it, especially because -- I'll just take it.  It's good.   
 Q.  Penultimate group tomorrow, you're going to be playing with Patrick Reed, and this is kind of a jammed up leaderboard.  What are your thoughts on your game as you head to Saturday?  
JIMMY WALKER: I feel good.  You know, really just only had one bogey in two days, and it was kind of -- I thought I hit a pretty good shot into 17.  The wind, I don't know what happened.  Those shots usually fade out of the rough for me pretty good but it just stayed real straight and fell left.   
I like what's going on, I really do.  So I'm excited to keep it going.   
 Q.  Hard to beat an opening round 65, but still a solid 70, 3-under par round today.  What was the difference today compared to yesterday?  
JIMMY WALKER: Probably just a few putts.  I had a lot of lipouts today.  I felt like I hit some good putts that just didn't quite go in.  So that's kind of the difference.  You make putts, it drops your score.   
 Q.  When you play on this golf course and you're making pars, do you feel like you're losing ground to the field here because there's so many birdies out there?  
JIMMY WALKER: Well, you know there's going to be birdie holes, so I think it's easy to get frustrated.  I think it's hard to stay patient.  And so that's been kind of the goal, to stay patient.  I don't know when the run is going to come.  It's going to come.  Yesterday it came really early.  When you go 5-under through your first six, that kind of sets up the day for you pretty nice.   
But you've just got to wait for it, and that's what you've got to do it here, because it's going to come.   
 Q.  Halfway point now here in the tournament and you're obviously in the mix and it's a very condensed leaderboard with a lot of players still in.  What's your mind-set heading into the weekend?  
JIMMY WALKER: Just a lot of the same.  For me, it's keep taking care of business, keep hitting the good shots, keep making putts.  And you expect everybody to keep doing the same, so it should be fun to watch.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT