PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2016
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jimmy, I thought you were very patient in the third round?
JIMMY WALKER: I tried.  I was making a few loose swings here and there on the front nine and finally settled in and made a good swing.
6, I hit that one pretty close and made a birdie and that kind of helped settle things in.
Really bummed about the 3 putt on 8.  I knew that putt was slow after watching Robert's and I didn't really do anything about it.  I had a couple of horseshoe lipouts on the front and on the back.  I tried to keep making positive swings, lots of good shots, got a couple nice putts to go.
Q. I didn't think it was a coincidence that you started hitting your driver well, which resulted in birdie opportunities out of the fairway for you.
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, it did.  A lot of those pins were tough to get to.  There are some tricky pins.  15 is tricky, 16 is tricky.  Those back pins are tough to.  They are hard to get to.  I tried to skid one in there on 17 and I came up a little short and it did skid and I just didn't hit it hard enough.
The pin on 18 is super tricky.  It's sitting up there on a knob.  I feel like I played really solid on the back nine.
Q. The ball will be played up in the final round.  What are your thoughts on that and how does it help or does that change your approach at all?
JIMMY WALKER: No, I mean, I think it's a smart move.  They don't know what it's going to do.  It's pretty wet out there.  I don't think it gives you a crazy, crazy advantage with the ball in hand, maybe a little pitching here and there, but I don't think it's going to change anything.
Q. What was your expectation this morning for coming out?  How much golf did you think you would actually get to play?
JIMMY WALKER: I was just prepared, mentally prepared, to play the whole thing, so we'll just keep on that.
Q. What was the difference between the first nine and the second nine, and was there anything that kind of got you going?
JIMMY WALKER: Just made a couple of loose swings, and finally I settled in and said, let's hit a good shot into 6; I did, and it felt good.  And I said, man, I'm swinging at it good.  Let's just keep trusting that.  And finally after that, I started making some really quality golf swings, shots right at the flag, good ball control, good distance control, so felt good.
Q. Don't have a ton of time between the end of the third round and the fourth round.  Does that kind of help with the nerves or the mentality, the mental side of it, not having to be on the lead overnight or for a long time?
JIMMY WALKER: Either is fine.  Doesn't really matter.  Hopefully we get it in.  That would be fun and nice and we could all get out of here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT