PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2016
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your round today, 4 under.  You have the lead after 36 holes.
JIMMY WALKER: Solid day, a lot of good shots.  Right from the get go, just kind of kept the ball underneath the hole.  Hit quality shots.  Made a couple nice, long putts in the middle of the round that kind of -- not say jump started, but just kept it going.  I was real happy with the day.
Couple loose swings coming in, no big deal.  Little quick.  But the finish was -- wasn't what I was looking for, but it's fine.  I think you take 66 at any tournament all day every day.  So it's good.
Q. When was the last time you had two rounds like this back to back?
JIMMY WALKER: I don't know.  Maybe Torrey Pines this year, something like that.  Played tough there, two quality rounds in a row.
Q. Do you feel something like this coming?
JIMMY WALKER: I felt close.  I can't describe it any way other than that.  It's right there.  It's just a matter of time before the good play and continuous good play was going to start happening.  You kind of got to wait for it.  You don't know when it's going to happen.  I feel like everything was starting to trend the right way.
Q. How does it feel to see your name atop of the leaderboard?
JIMMY WALKER: It's cool.  It's really cool.  You're at the PGA Championship.  You are at the top.  It's what you are here to do.  It's fun.
Q. How often do you look at the Ryder Cup standings?
JIMMY WALKER: I haven't looked at it.  I know I'm not where I would like to be.  It's definitely something I would like to do.  I know there's still a lot of time in the year to finish strong and make an impression.
Q. What is your upcoming schedule?
JIMMY WALKER: Off next week and then play out.
Q. Will you look at the leaderboard tomorrow?
JIMMY WALKER: I watch it.  I don't think that's a big deal.  I enjoy watching it.  I think you need to know where you are at.  That's me.
Q. How will you keep your nerves in check going into the weekend at the top?
JIMMY WALKER: It is golf.  It's what we do every week.  I've won before.  I've won a few times.  I've won different ways.  I feel like I've done a lot in golf.  So this is one more little thing here that I haven't really experienced before, but I don't -- I mean, I'm pretty whooped and I'm going to go home and play with the kids and get them to bed.  I'm pretty sure I'm going to fall right asleep and be just fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT