THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 4, 2018
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Jimmy Walker into the interview room here at A Military Tribute at The Greenbrier.  He's making his seventh start at this event, with three top four finishes.  Runner up in 2013, and T-4 in 2010 and 2011.  Jimmy, you've always been fond of West Virginia, you've played well here, you've won on the Web.com Tour in West Virginia.  Just comment a little bit on what it is that you like here?   
JIMMY WALKER: I wish I could pinpoint it.  I do know I've enjoyed coming to The Greenbrier.  It's a great place to come and hang out and kind of relax.  I've enjoyed the golf course.  So that's kind of been the keys to success here.  I like the look of it and just seem to play well.   
THE MODERATOR: I know a bumpy start to the season for you back in the fall, but you've really turned it on.  13 made cuts in your last 14 starts, with four top 10, including the runner up at the players.  So comment a little bit about your season up to this point and your goals the rest of the way?   
JIMMY WALKER: You know, I've just been still working on trying to get back to being -- over being sick.  I feel like I'm super close.  I didn't play any in the Fall, just trying to get healthy.  Then it just took a little time getting some confidence going and working on the golf swing and practicing.  So that's kind of what we've been doing.   
It's been slow, but I had a good stretch there for a couple months, and I'm looking forward to finishing the season up.   
 Q.  Yeah, you battled through it.  You and Erin with both of your sort of health issues ever say why us?  Is there any of that?  
JIMMY WALKER: I don't think we've said why us, but it's definitely weird.  But it is what it is, and you've got to keep battling and keep working through it.   
 Q.  How do you prepare for the difficult par-3s here at this course?  
JIMMY WALKER: You know, I think you just -- nice high ball flight works, and I've got that, which is nice.  So the ability to kind of shape it in there, if you want it to hit a little softer, you can hit some cuts in there.  You can maybe get to some back pins hitting a draw.  But nice, high, soft shots seem to work into the par-3s, especially because they're pretty long.   
So, yeah, I mean 8 is a great little hole.  It's not little, it's pretty long.  Then even on the back, 15 is really good.  So they're good par-3s, for sure, and you want to be on the right level on 3, for sure.   
 Q.  When we're at the stretch of the season and there is a lot of golf going on, is it nice to have a week like this where it's a little bit more relaxing, perhaps, and maybe just take a step back from just the golf as well?  
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, I think so.  We enjoyed it, Chris Stroud and I went and shot some sporting clays the other day and just tried to kind of get away from it a little bit.  But I've enjoyed my summer.  We spent a lot of time in Utah.  It's been great.  Weather has been awesome.  I just relaxed and felt like I played a lot of golf there on a good stretch.  I was looking forward to this week, and just the next upcoming majors that are coming up, then finish out the FedExCup, which should be fun.   
 Q.  Who was the best shot yesterday, you or Chris?  
JIMMY WALKER: Chris was on the other day.  He was shooting pretty good.  I don't shoot a lot of shotguns.  Lot of rifles for me, but not a bunch of shotguns.  I need to practice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT