PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2016
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just give us a quick breakdown on your round this morning?  
JIMMY WALKER: Without seeing the card in front, just made a lot of really quality shots on my front nine, the back.  Made some good putts.  Hit a close couple of times.  The birdies on 15 and 16 were nice.  Made a good par on 17, had to pitch out in the fairway and lay-up again.   
18, hit a good drive.  When you hit a good drive there sure feels like it makes that hole a lot easier.   
On the front nine, I birdied 1, hit a pretty good shot in there, made a longer putt.  Felt like didn't play like crazy tough or anything, but found a couple of didn't hit it in the fairway a couple of times and felt like you were scram willing a bit.   
I made a good par save on 4.  Hit some quality shots coming in on 7, 8 and 9, so that was good.   
 Q.  What is the most challenging about being out there today?  
JIMMY WALKER: I think it was probably a little bit of heat.  The wind wasn't blowing, so it was always kind of hot.  Just constantly sweating, there's nothing to cool you off.   
The rough is a challenge.  You can either catch a nice lie or you can get one that's a pitch out.  You really wanted to stay in the fairway so you can have control of the golf ball.  The greens were very receptive.  I felt like if you were hitting from the short grass, you could pretty much do whatever you wanted with the golf ball in the green.   
 Q.  How important is for you to really make a (no microphone)?  
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, I want to win won.  It would be huge.  So that's the whole purpose and the goal in being here is to win.  I feel like I've prepared and I'm ready to go this week.  It's nice that that's what showed today.  I felt like I was ready to go.  So winning a major is huge.  Three more days to go.  There will be a lot more too.   
 Q.  The European Tour is going to shorts.  Do you think the PGA should consider that?  
JIMMY WALKER: Not during play.  It's rare.  We haven't had it this hot in a while.  It's few and far between.  I think we all look good in pants.  Some of us probably wouldn't look as good in shorts.  Not saying it's not me.  Pants are fine.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT