WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
June 30, 2016
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  3 under 67; looked at times like it was kind of a battle out there.  Describe your round.  
JIMMY WALKER: It was.  I did a lot of scrambling.  Chipping and putting today was really nice, and will try to tidy that up tomorrow, hit a few more fairways.  Back nine I hit a lot of first cuts, so it wasn't too crazy.   
 Q.  You're one of the first guys we've gotten to talk to coming off the course.  What were the conditions like out there?  
JIMMY WALKER: The greens had a little bit of bounce to them.  Greens rolled nice and had speed.  I thought the wind was kind of -- it wasn't hard to predict, it just flew different directions all day.  You had one downwind, into the wind.  It never kept the same direction all day.  Just kind of had to read every shot for what it is.   
 Q.  What do you carry over from a day where you're scrambling and you're still able to get in with a 67?  
JIMMY WALKER: It's great.  You have to be able to do that.  I haven't been doing that very well, but you've just got to be able to do that on days when something -- it's very rare you catch a day where everything is on, and you've got to kind of battle through what you're not doing well.  That's what we did.   
 Q.  67, nice opening round.  Before we get into it, the putt on 18, you looked very surprised that it was able to be short basically.  
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah.  I'm just kind of standing there over it looking down at it, and it just looks really fast.  I wanted to give it -- I wanted to make it but I wanted to give it its due respect, and boy, it was just a whiff.   
 Q.  Overall the putter worked pretty well, though, today?  
JIMMY WALKER: I did putt very well.  I did.  I started off the round making about a 35-foot curler with about six feet of break on it, and that just kind of opened the seal a little bit.  I haven't been making a lot of putts, and it was nice to see the birdie putts that I had today go in.   
 Q.  I guess it's finally up and running at full speed?  
JIMMY WALKER: No, it's going good.  I can't complain.  It works, and it's cranking away every night if it can.  The weather has been good in California.   
 Q.  I was just wondering, is it the putting that you've been looking to put together?  Is that kind of --  
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, I just haven't been making any putts.  I haven't been three-putting anything or missing short putts, but I just haven't been making any putts to get some momentum and run up the leaderboard a little bit and making birdies, so it was nice to see some go in today.   
 Q.  A lot of people like this place, the traditional old style.  Is that you, too?  
JIMMY WALKER: I do, yeah.  It's a tough track.  It's very tight, and there's some tight holes where you really have to drive it well.  I mean, you stand up on 9, and there's nowhere to hit it, 18 it doesn't really look like there's anywhere to hit it, and when the wind gets blowing out here, it gets tough.   
 Q.  How many times have you played here now?  
JIMMY WALKER: I think this is my third time to play.   
 Q.  How did you do the other two?  
JIMMY WALKER: I don't remember.   
 Q.  Tie for 26th I think is your best.  
JIMMY WALKER: 20s or 40s or something.   
 Q.  Do you remember what -- did you take away anything from those two times?  
JIMMY WALKER: I just remember just not playing real well.  I had a couple of good rounds here and there, but it's -- I like the layout, so there's nothing I don't like about it, just for whatever reason just haven't played really well.   
 Q.  Like you said, you haven't done real well the last few weeks, but do you feel like you turned it around a little bit.  
JIMMY WALKER: I had two okay events in Texas, a couple of 20ths or something like that, and just a lot of kind of blah golf, just not really making any birdies.  The U.S. Open was tough, obviously, we got kind of -- I didn't play great, didn't make any putts, didn't make any birdies.  Made one birdie for 36 holes.  But it's just been right there.   
 Q.  Are you looking forward to the British and playing that?  
JIMMY WALKER: I am, yeah.  I'm on the charter to go over.  I'll be there Monday.   
 Q.  You've had some success in 2014 but still looking to break through in the majors.  
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, it's always -- you know, just keep grinding, and I keep working hard, and sometimes it doesn't work for you and sometimes it does, but you've got to keep -- you just keep banging away.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT