WGC DELL MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2016
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JIMMY WALKER: Yesterday I really struggled, just under halfway through the round, I just played pretty poorly.  And Aphi didn't play great either.  We were just kind of trying to throw it at each other, and nobody really took the reins and he finally did.  I just didn't play very well yesterday.   
And today, hit it a lot better, made more putts.  Made all the putts I really needed to make, the little 4-footers to save par and halve the hole.  So that was kind of the difference, I think.  I made some good putts today.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
JIMMY WALKER: I think it's a completely different golf course than what we'd seen all week.  So it was a different golf course, and it was a matter of just refiguring that out a little bit.  So I think it was a different golf course today.  We hit driver, 9-iron into the par 5.  Today, same hole today, driver, 3-wood.  So it played a lot different.   
 Q.  What's the mind set of any guy who comes out here who doesn't win the first day, either halves or losses the first day, you know you want to bounce back.  What's kind of the thought process?  
JIMMY WALKER: You can only do what you can do.  But there's lots of scenarios, especially with the half points, matches tie.  I knew I needed to come out and win today or I didn't have a chance.  So that was the goal today.   
And then I'll have a tough match tomorrow.  And it just depends on what all happens with everybody else.  The playoff is certainly possible.  You could go outright.  So there's a couple of different scenarios.   
 Q.  Do you think this course will be dramatically different if the wind shuts off completely?  
JIMMY WALKER: Not too much.  It will be kind of right there for everybody.  You're always trying to fight it here or there, it seemed like the last two days.  And I think we've seen it both ways now.  With no wind I don't think it's going to be much different.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT