THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 26, 2016
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. One back currently, we followed you for a few holes and it looked like mid-round your putter maybe kind of went off on you a little bit and got hot again.  Speak to us about overall how you feel your putting is.
JIMMY WALKER: I've been struggling with speed a little bit.  I've been 3-putting quite a bit which is not normal for me, lag putting, running it by, mostly running it by.
Speed was awesome yesterday.  I worked hard on it over the weekend and today I hit a couple early that weren't so hot and kind of shook me for a bit with lines and speed and just kind of -- not lagging it up there.  Wasn't trying to.  Just was not super comfortable.  Finally put two really good strokes:  On 17 I made a really good putt and 18 was just kind of one of those, holed out kind of deals, I was just lagging it down there.
Q. Looked like the round could have potentially gotten away from you, make a bogey on 7 and miss a good opportunity for birdie on 8.  How big was the birdie on 9 to keep the momentum going?
JIMMY WALKER: It was big.  I didn't hit a very good drive there and caught a good break in the rough and hit a great shot.  Finally made a good putt.  Got a good read, made a putt.  You know, I didn't miss many greens today but every green I missed, I didn't get up-and-down.  I didn't miss a lot of greens yesterday, so I need to go practice my chipping.
Q. We always hear TOUR players say, 36-hole lead, doesn't mean anything, we have two more rounds to go, but how important is it to be close to the lead and in contention?
JIMMY WALKER: I think it's important to be close to the lead in a tournament like this because it's such a hard golf course.  And I think the field can get separated, but it seems like it gets really bunched up, too.  You've got guys that are going to play -- that can play really, really well and kind of distance themselves.  Rickie was -- I heard the roar on the last hole, it was him and Sergio but sounded like Rickie because he's a hometown boy.  I knew I needed to make birdie on the last hole to keep pace with him, and to get one more on him was great.
Q. Birdie, eagle to close things out on Friday.  To finish like that, how does that add up to a great day for you?
JIMMY WALKER: It adds up to a great day.  I was patient.  It played tough.  There were some tough pins.  Struggled with the putter a little in the middle of the round, speed was off just a little bit and finally got the speed dialed in on 17 and made one and that was nice.  Hit quality shots on all the par 3s coming in, right where I was looking, so I felt like I could control the golf ball.
Q. You had five straight Top 15 finishes and then missed the cut last week at Riviera.  What did you figure out from a few days ago through two days?
JIMMY WALKER: I had a bunch of 3-putts at Riviera that cost me, I think I had four in two days.  I just don't do that.  So worked hard on it, and that was the difference.  It plays tough, it's my favorite course, and I was really bummed to miss the cut there because I really enjoy playing.  Wanted to get it together this week because I know it's a tough week and it's a tough golf course, and it's showing it.
Q. How do you approach this tough course with the difficult conditions, the wind?  It's a challenge from tee-to-green.
JIMMY WALKER: It is.  You've got to have really good control of your golf ball or it can eat you pretty fast.  The rough is thick and deep, so missing greens, it's not a cakewalk.  It's hard.  So you really want to be in control.  I feel like I've hit a lot of greens, and you need to keep hitting greens out here.  Sure makes it a lot easier.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT