AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 13, 2016
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your round.  
JIMMY WALKER: I kind of keyed in on some swing stuff, slowing the back swing down, and then got a couple of putts to go in, which just hadn't been happening.   
I've had a bunch of 3-putt, the speed was way off the first two days, I mean way off for me.   
Then today the ball was going right into the cup with proper speed.  If it was hitting the cup it had a chance to go, whereas the first two days it was just kind of hard lipouts.   
 Q.  Which surprised you more, your play the first two days or the score you shot today?  
JIMMY WALKER: Oh, you can't say that, I mean I was kind of bummed about the first two days.  I had a good front nine at Spyglass the first day, and the first nine holes and it just kind of bled off.   
And then just some 3-putting.  Two 3-putts in a row.  Really rare.   
And then just couldn't get anything going yesterday, either.  It was tough.  The greens were weren't kind to me yesterday either.  But today everything kind of just fell into place.   
 Q.  What is it about this place and this course that really seems to bring the best out of your game?  
JIMMY WALKER: You got to hit proper golf shots around here and it rewards shot making.  I think you got to fight the winds and you got to fight the downhills and you really got to have control of your golf ball and you got to use your imagination.   
It's just such a pretty place to play golf.  I mean, gosh, when we teed off this morning it was just beautiful.  Big waves crashing and there's no better place I think to play golf on a nice day.  When it's bad, it's pretty gnarly out here.   
 Q.  Do you like playing Pebble back to back on the weekend?  
JIMMY WALKER: That's the first time I've done that.  The last couple years we finished at Monterrey Peninsula.  It might be a nice -- it's a nice feeling, because you just played it, greens are firm, they're firm out here, and you can barely keep a ball on 7 today downwind.  So, we kind of know what to look for tomorrow.  Firmer greens and so yeah.   
 Q.  Two eagles in a round?  That's a little unusual.  Can you tell us what you had into both of them?  
JIMMY WALKER: I hit 3-iron into 2.  To about 12 feet.  Made that one.   
Then I hit 4-iron into 7.  I mean 6.   
 Q.  There are times when you have to hit 4-iron into 7?  
JIMMY WALKER: I haven't played that day yet, I've heard about it.  I almost eagled 9.  It was on the lip and it's crazy.   
 Q.  What was that club in?  
JIMMY WALKER: 60 degree.  124.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT