AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 18, 2018
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another good week.  What's been working for you this week?
JIMMY WALKER: Just hitting it pretty solid, keeping it out in front of you, make a few putts.  That was kind of it yesterday, kind of like last week.
Q. As you come to the new venue at Trinity Forest, it's obviously different than a lot of courses we play on Tour.  What's the biggest thing that you have to be able to adjust to this?
JIMMY WALKER: It's how fast the fairways are running.  Yesterday they were running real fast and today I think we had a little more wind and a lot quicker.  Some aren't.  I hit one 3-iron that went a little too far in the wind into a bunker, some that wouldn't go far enough.  You lay it out there and kind of hit it.  That was kind of the difference I thought in the day.  The greens stayed the same, the firmness of the greens stayed the same, the speed was the same.
This course is cool.
Q. It being different, is it fun to play this golf course?
JIMMY WALKER: Definitely is.  We're talking like you took all these pavilions and grandstands and put the British Open ones in, it looks just like it.  Very cool.
Q. Good playing, good luck there weekend.
JIMMY WALKER: Thanks, bud.
Q. You felt like you were close and you felt it's coming.  Is this kind of the way you thought how the first couple days are close and you're right in the mix and you're playing the kind of golf you know you can play?
JIMMY WALKER: You know, you never know what's going to happen but I felt good about coming into the week and I liked the golf course.  I thought it was a lot of fun to play.  I only got to play it once before we teed off yesterday but I think it's showing really well and excited to play two more rounds.
Q. The wind is supposed to pick up a little bit over the weekend.  Does it make it easier (inaudible)
JIMMY WALKER: It's going to make the golf course play tougher because it's already firm and fast and we start getting some cross wind, start lose -- lose more control of the golf ball and that makes golf harder.
Q. Minus 11 through 2, do you feel like -- you feel pretty good?
JIMMY WALKER: I have no clue what the scores were going to be when we teed off at a new venue.  Starting to play fast.  I really wasn't sure.  But with no wind, you know, I think everybody out here is good enough that somebody is going to play really well, they're going to take advantage of it.
Q. This early in the tournament are you cognizant of what Leishman is doing or are you --
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah.  You see a guy running away, you don't want to let him get too far away.  There's two more days.  The wind is supposed to pick up and the golf course will play tougher with wind.
I just kept trying to make birdies and that's all -- just taking care of what I could take care of.
Q. What do you feel that you're doing well the first two days?
JIMMY WALKER: Hit some quality short mid-iron shots and I've kept -- fairways are pretty big out here.  You got to try to sometimes keep it on the right side of the fairway, take care of the par-5s.  That's what we're trying to do.
Q. Do you like playing these sort of way outs, you kind of got pick your angles?
JIMMY WALKER: It's fun.  It's a lot different than anything else we play.  I don't know why -- I heard mixed reviews coming in and I've never not played a Coore/Crenshaw I didn't like.
I kind of figured it was pretty good when I got here.  I thought it was great.  I stopped last night and told them what I though and how cool it was and what a good job.
Q. Realistically, how tough is it playing with Spieth or anybody else that's kind a big draw to begin with when guys -- the gallery taking off after he hits his shot and you guys are try to stay focused in on what you're doing?
JIMMY WALKER: I think the fans did a good job.  Jordan does a good job, too, and Greller telling everybody to hold up, stop.  It doesn't bother us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT