HYUNDAI TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 9, 2016
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under the first two days, 9-under today.  You were doing everything right today, weren't you?
JIMMY WALKER: It sure seemed like it, yeah.  I wish I could have gotten a couple coming in, but not birdieing the two par-5s on the back is kind of a bummer.  But all in all hit it great and made some putts.  It was fun.
Q. I thought it was going to be a tougher day for you guys.  What was the difference today?
JIMMY WALKER: I thought it was going to play -- I thought it played tough, too, I hit it really good, I played good, I hit really quality shots into the wind.
Played aggressive downwind and had a couple of 40, 50 yarders into some par-4s that you're normally maybe 100, 150.  So, it played a lot different on some spots, like No. 1.  Hit it in the fairway bunker and you got 4-iron in, instead of sand wedge.  So a lot of holes played different.
Q. So tomorrow you need to do this again, right?
JIMMY WALKER: It looks like it.
Q. You ready?
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah.  Yeah.  Just go out and give it all you got.  That's all you can do.  Jordan's playing really good and just nothing you can do about that.  You can only go out and do what you can do.  So that's what we'll do.
Q. 64 today, and you had some chances to maybe get lower.
JIMMY WALKER: I did.  I wish I could have birdied at least two out of those kind of three where I had good chances coming in.  Not birdieing the two par-5s is a bummer.
Q. Do you feel like you got yourself back within striking distance?
JIMMY WALKER: I don't know about that.  Jordan's playing pretty good and it's going to take another crazy low round tomorrow and him probably not playing so well.  But he's playing really good and that's what you got to expect.  So you got to go out and give it all you got.
Q. How much do you enjoy this course?  Last year you were so close and then today's round, how much do you enjoy this layout?
JIMMY WALKER: I think it's fun.  It's a great golf course to play.  I think it plays more fun with some wind.  You can take advantage of a couple holes.  Some holes play a lot harder, just depends on each direction the golf course is going to give you something.  You got to try it take advantage of it.  When it's not blowing, it's just kind of there and, I don't know, I enjoy playing with a little more wind.
Q. What did you do in the off season to sort of regroup.  You had a very good year but when you sat down with Butch in the off season what did you guys focus on?
JIMMY WALKER: Just really focused on -- he's been trying to get me to do this little head move and it's really worked.  I played well in the Bahamas doing it.  I didn't do a whole lot.  I hit the gym and hit some balls and played with my buddies at home and went out and tried to play with working on that move and hitting balls with it.  It's still new and young and I'm still, I still have to manually do it.  It just doesn't happen.  So, it feels good.
Q. When you see Jordan on top of the leaderboard, I know he probably doesn't have that Tiger affect yet, but when you see him playing this well and he's four strokes ahead going into today.  Is there something inside you that makes you press a little bit harder?
JIMMY WALKER: I definitely kind of had it going and definitely wanted to keep making birdies.  But it's tough.  It's hard to keep making putts.  I had a couple that the wind got and moved it out and then it wasn't my fault.  It was just -- it's blowing out here.
So, yeah, you want to definitely keep pressing hard, because you know he's been playing really well and you got to expect that.  So you have to go play better.
Q. How much adjustment do you have to make playing on this course and then going on to Waialae the next week?
JIMMY WALKER: Waialae, I mean compared it here, they got the same kind of greens, not quite as grainy next week as they are here.  Definitely a lot flatter, it's a flatter golf course and it's more, a little more precision.  It's a lot tighter golf course, a lot tighter fairways.  So you got to be a little more in tune with that.  Here, it's a lot wider and your margin of error is quite a bit larger.  You definitely still want to be trying to hit your targets out here.
Q. You enjoy playing Waialae I would assume after two victories in a row?
JIMMY WALKER: I've always enjoyed playing it.  It's a really cool golf course.  It's one of those underrated golf courses out here.  If you hit it well and you're making putts, you can take advantage of it.  If you're not, it can really hurt you.
Q. Do you have feel like after today, does that give you a little confidence going into next week?
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, I feel good.  I'm not thinking about next week quite yet.  Just got one more day to go here and then we're going to kind of chill out here Monday and hit the pool for a bit.  And we got a late flight to get over there on Monday and so that's kind of the plan.  That's it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT