SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 21, 2015
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








AMANDA HERRINGTON: We'd like to welcome Jimmy Walker to the interview room here at the Shriners Hospital for Children Open.  You've had some success here, a couple top 10s highlighted by a T4 last year, so starting the new season, what are you looking forward here to make that new start again?
JIMMY WALKER: It's a fun week coming here.  I've enjoyed the golf course over the years, so we're having some unseasonal weather today and yesterday for here, but I think tomorrow is going to go back to normal and it will be that nice warm kind of calm weather conditions that we're used to here.  I'm really looking forward to it.
Golf course is in great shape.  Greens are really fast.  So it's going to be fun.
AMANDA HERRINGTON: You've been a testament to the wraparound season in the FedExCup.  Looking forward to a new season, what are your goals, and how do you want to emulate what you've done in the past?
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, you know, getting off to a quick start is always nice.  I think anybody will tell you that.  But I want to take a little more time off this off-season and get home and spend some time with the kids and rest and relax and feel like I'm ready to go starting January.  But I'm looking forward to this week.  I really enjoy playing here.  The golf course is one of my faves.
Goals for next year, keep winning.  I'd like to win -- keep up the pace I've been doing, maybe win some more, contend in the majors, win a major, get back on the Ryder Cup team, Olympics, so those are the goals.
AMANDA HERRINGTON: We just heard from Rickie who spoke a little bit about some of the celebrations over in Korea.  How was your experience over there and what maybe did you add to the team celebration in the end?
JIMMY WALKER: Korea was great.  Everybody over there, the fans were great.  I think it felt like we had even more support than the international team did.  The golf course is in great shape.  They treated us like kings for the whole week.  The place that we stayed, the hotel was amazing.  We had a really good time.
What did I add to the party?  Just my amazing personality, I guess.
Q. Why does this course fit your game so well?  And what did you see from Rickie in Korea and even during the course of the entire 2015 season that makes him a much better and tougher competitor to play against?
JIMMY WALKER: What was the first question?
Q. First question is about the course at TPC Summerlin, why it fits your game so well.
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, you know, it's -- I don't know what it is.  You've always got to putt pretty good here.  Seems like you've always got to be making putts.  And then there's -- the par-5s for me are reachable.
So just -- place just kind of puts me in a good mood.  Vegas is fun, nice place to be.  MGM is one of my sponsors.  It's just fun to be here.  They treat us right, and it's always good crowds here, and the weather is nice.  Just kind of puts you in a good mood, I think.
As far as Rickie Fowler, it's really cool to see him step it up.  I think all the stuff that was said about him at the beginning of the year before THE PLAYERS I think is a bunch of bull.  He's obviously proved them wrong.  It's hard to win out here.  That's what people don't get.  You can play great on any given week and get beat by a shot.  You know, and you played great.  It's getting harder and harder to win out here, I think.  There's so many guys that can do it.  In any week anybody can win.  That's what we all talk about as players.  It's tough.
But he's been doing it, and he's going to keep doing it.  I have no doubt.
Q. I'm just curious, anything in particular coming off another great year, anything in particular you're going to be working on or things that are on your to-do list in the fall or the winter, maybe swing-wise or anything else that you're trying to work on?
JIMMY WALKER: You know, I'm going to go see Butch this afternoon and we're going to start kind of an outline.  I know he's got some stuff he wants to do, and we'll go see what that's all about.  Definitely want to work hard, keep playing better.  I wasn't real happy with the last half of my season this year, so I definitely want to step it back up and get back into playing the kind of golf I can play and play better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT