AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 17, 2018
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You eagled your first hole.  How did that help set the tone for your bogey-free round?
JIMMY WALKER: Making a eagle putt, it's a nice way to start the day off for sure.  I had a nice up and down the next hole.  That kind set the pace.
Just hit it solid all day.  Made a few putts and kind of kept it out in front and tried to play the golf course, what it was giving you, firm and fast.  Tried to play back a little bit.  Didn't push it too far today.
Q. Tied for second at your last event, Players Championship.  What kind of confidence and momentum does that bring into this event for you?
JIMMY WALKER: Feel good.  Last week was great.  A big week for me, especially what's been going on and I feel a lot better now.  Golf game seems like it's coming back.  Last week was huge, a big week.  Lot of smiles.
Q. Late play today, early start tomorrow.  You got a quick turnaround.  What is critical between now and then in order for you to keep this momentum going?
JIMMY WALKER: Go get the rug down after the round with Mark and get something decent, quick to eat and hit the sack.  Got to get up early in the morning.
Q. Comments about the round.
JIMMY WALKER: The round was good.  Started off nice, nice eagle to start.  Hit in it there about four feet.  I had a nice up and down on the next hole.  That kind of helped set the pace of the day, I think.
Just hit it pretty solid, for the most part, all day and made some -- took care of par-5s today.  I got real lucky on the back-9, par 5, made a wayward shot and got lucky.  The rest of it was just solid round.  Kind of out in front of you, and on the greens, making a couple of putts so it was good.
Q. You had not seen the course, I talked to you on Tuesday.  Are you a quick learner or you liked it a lot?
JIMMY WALKER: I hadn't seen it before but I think with the yardage books we have and how good we are, what we do and our caddies and what they do, it's pretty easy to pick apart a golf course and is there some local knowledge?  Yes, probably.
You can only get -- if the golf course likes to be played a certain way and that's what we try to do, is stick to that.
Q. Are you really surprised how low the scores were, especially a 61?
JIMMY WALKER: I wasn't sure what the score was going to be, honestly.  So, I didn't know what to expect.  I saw that there was a couple guys out at 6 or 7 when I teed off so it's got to be out there.  Just stay -- stick to your game plan, stay patient.
Q. How does your approach change with the heat out there and the fact that there weren't too many winds out there but it's supposed to be a little bit breezier?
JIMMY WALKER: I know the golf course would like some wind.  I think the fairways are nice and fast and got the greens good speed and a good firmness.  I hope they don't change that too much.
If they got firmer and faster on the golf course it would be pretty fun.  As far as the heat, you know, we're used to it.  I feel for the spectators with no shade, first week of the year it's really hot.  Just drink water, lot of it.
Q. Lot of waiting.  Do you think that's largely due to the newness and the large greens, lot of longer putts that you're having to read?
JIMMY WALKER: I think so.  You know, it didn't feel like it took crazy long today but it did feel a little slow.  It is what it is.
Q. Jimmy, how would you compare this current stretch you have to when you won at PGA?
JIMMY WALKER: I don't know.  I wasn't playing great into the PGA.  I had a good last round in Toronto.  I felt a lot of things kind of come together like I've been working hard and just wasn't clicking and then all of a sudden on that last 9 holes in Toronto I felt wow, there it was, everything I tried to do.  Carried over.  Working hard again after being sick and golf starting to feel good.  So, I feel good, which is fun.
Q. How are you feeling physically and how much does that factor in your play?
JIMMY WALKER: It's a huge factor.  I feel good.  It's a hard enough game as it is.  You don't want to feel bad when you're out playing golf or feel sick or injured or weak or that's just kind of how I was.
Q. This tournament kind of like Jordan Spieth's home tournament.  How nice is it to play well in front of something of a home crowd for you, too?
JIMMY WALKER: I've been in Texas a long time.  It did feel like Jordan's tournament.  They're throwing hats and T-shirts.  I asked them if I could have one.  They didn't say yes.  Yeah, it's fun.  It's fun to play here with him and big crowds.  It's cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT