QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
July 31, 2015
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JIMMY WALKER: Just Butch texted me after the round yesterday.  He saw some stuff on TV since we were the highlight group.  I tried to take it to heart last night and put into it play today.Q. Paid off, huh?JIMMY WALKER: Made a lot of putts, too, which is nice.Q. Given the way you were kind of struggle to find fairways again, was that eagle kind of indicative of your whole round?JIMMY WALKER: I don't hit a lot of fairways anyway.  It's not that big of a deal.  Putting it on the green, getting looks is key.  I took advantage of the good drives I hit and hit good iron shots.  Hit it in a couple fairway bunkers.  Bunkers out here are nice.  I hit some good shots.Q. After the evening what were you hoping for after this round?JIMMY WALKER: I needed to come out and shoot a good score today so I did.  I was looking, I was thinking 6-under, that would have been a nice morning round score to put up, but you tag two more on there, it's a nice morning.Q. Could you feed off what the other guys in your group were doing?JIMMY WALKER: It was -- Justin was struggling.  He just couldn't get it in the hole, kind of like me yesterday.  Shot a really just boring looking even par.  I mean I'm sure he would tell you the exact same thing about mine yesterday.  I didn't really enjoy it and I don't think he did, either today. David hit it great all week, last two days and hit it great again today.  He kept making putts.  Made a great up and down over on about the 7th hole and catching a mud ball.  He played really good.Q. Does the course set-up for guys who don't hit as many fairways?JIMMY WALKER: I don't know.  I mean I don't hit a lot anyway.  I'm used to playing out of the rough.  It's just part of my life that I deal with every week.Q. Did it feel any different today than as opposed to yesterday?JIMMY WALKER: I hit a few more quality iron shots, I was in a few more fairways but the iron shots were a lot better and made a bunch of putts.  That was huge.Q. You got plans to watch the full moon tonight?JIMMY WALKER: I'll shoot it from my house if the skies are good


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT