QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
July 31, 2015
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JIMMY WALKER: Just Butch texted me after the round yesterday.  He saw some stuff on TV since we were the highlight group.  I tried to take it to heart last night and put into it play today.Q. Paid off, huh?JIMMY WALKER: Made a lot of putts, too, which is nice.Q. Given the way you were kind of struggle to find fairways again, was that eagle kind of indicative of your whole round?JIMMY WALKER: I don't hit a lot of fairways anyway.  It's not that big of a deal.  Putting it on the green, getting looks is key.  I took advantage of the good drives I hit and hit good iron shots.  Hit it in a couple fairway bunkers.  Bunkers out here are nice.  I hit some good shots.Q. After the evening what were you hoping for after this round?JIMMY WALKER: I needed to come out and shoot a good score today so I did.  I was looking, I was thinking 6-under, that would have been a nice morning round score to put up, but you tag two more on there, it's a nice morning.Q. Could you feed off what the other guys in your group were doing?JIMMY WALKER: It was -- Justin was struggling.  He just couldn't get it in the hole, kind of like me yesterday.  Shot a really just boring looking even par.  I mean I'm sure he would tell you the exact same thing about mine yesterday.  I didn't really enjoy it and I don't think he did, either today. David hit it great all week, last two days and hit it great again today.  He kept making putts.  Made a great up and down over on about the 7th hole and catching a mud ball.  He played really good.Q. Does the course set-up for guys who don't hit as many fairways?JIMMY WALKER: I don't know.  I mean I don't hit a lot anyway.  I'm used to playing out of the rough.  It's just part of my life that I deal with every week.Q. Did it feel any different today than as opposed to yesterday?JIMMY WALKER: I hit a few more quality iron shots, I was in a few more fairways but the iron shots were a lot better and made a bunch of putts.  That was huge.Q. You got plans to watch the full moon tonight?JIMMY WALKER: I'll shoot it from my house if the skies are good.Q. Jimmy, you hit it nicely yesterday, didn't get anything at all.  It all evened out today.JIMMY WALKER: I think so.  I didn't drive it quite as well as I would like yesterday.  I felt like I drove it better today but I didn't hit as many fairways as it felt like.  Better iron shots, made some putts.  You know, like you said, it was nice.  Just kept it going, kept the pedal down.  That's fun.Q. Made the comment to someone yesterday after watching you play like 17 holes, it just looked so easy.  Is it really that easy for Jimmy Walker?JIMMY WALKER: Yesterday, it did not feel easy yesterday.  Just felt like nothing was going right.  Making a lot of pars.  I was pretty frustrated after the round. Then came out today and, you know, kind of started to materialize and made some good putts.  When you start seeing the putts go in it starts to build.  I really putted well Tuesday and Wednesday this week and hit some good shots.  Yesterday didn't show it but today it did.Q. Can you see the conditions changing much for the weekend, any changes in strategy, maybe?JIMMY WALKER: You know, not right now.  It's still pretty soft.  You can pretty much fire at any flag and the ball is not spinning too much so I just don't see it drying out too, too much.  It's still so humid it's really holding a lot of moisture in the ground.Q. Tremendous playing.  Go get some rest, man.JIMMY WALKER: Thanks


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT