AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 29, 2015
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JIMMY WALKER:   Hit it pretty good today.   Just didn't make as many putts as I did yesterday but made some good birdies coming in.   Got dark on that last hole for sure.  
   
 Q.   Are you more elated to be tied for the lead or relieved that you got the round in?  
JIMMY WALKER:   Nice to get it in for sure but no, it's always great to be right there at the top, have a chance on the weekend.   That's why we're here.  
   
 Q.   You were determined to get that round in like no matter how dark it was getting.  
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah.   I got little kids, Dustin has got a kid.   We didn't want to have to get up earlier again and go do that.   Get to us sleep in a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Did the light on the scoreboard actually help you?  
JIMMY WALKER:   It's funny.   The light from the sun was hitting the clouds for awhile and it was lightning up pretty good for us.   Then it went away and that was it.   It got dark real fast.  
   
 Q.   How have the conditions been?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I was actually surprised.   It was a lot drier than I thought it was going to be.   I thought it was going to be really bad.   It held up good.   
The tee ground over there on the par 3, par 4 was interesting.   It got pretty beat up when we were there.   But other than that, it was fine.  
   
 Q.   Kind of a weird day throwing in the 14th hole change, just all the rain.   Kind of one those days on the golf course.  
JIMMY WALKER:   It is but everybody has to play it.   I know there was some concern about that tee on 14 because at that time of the day it was beat up.   It was a weird shot.   Kind of on an up-slope.   Really beat up.   I kind of teed it up a little higher and kind of clipped it off there.   There wasn't much grass anymore.   It was pretty much mud and you were hilting off mud.  
   
 Q.   Can you just kind of sum up your day and your round, how you played?  
JIMMY WALKER:   I played good.   I hit it solid.   I hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens.   I hit some really good iron shots.   
I didn't make many putts.   I didn't make as many putts as I did yesterday.   Hung in there, made some -- made a couple of good birdies on back.   Hit it pretty close a couple times on 13 and 14.   Birdied 11 today with the tee up.   Hit 3-wood right in front of the green.   It was nice, a good day.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT