AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 28, 2015
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice round.   Can you talk about it a little bit, please?
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah.   I got off to a nice start, birdied the 1st hole.   Had a good look on 2. Nice little chip-in on 12.   Nice chip-in on 12.   Then I three-putted the next hole.   Tried to 3-putt the next hole but I didn't. 
Made a good par save on 16, 17 and 18 and then was able to start hitting some better shots and more fairways, more greens and hit a lot of quality iron shots on the back-9 and birdies on 1, the par 3 down the hill, hit a 9-iron there to about 6 feet or something.   Birdies on 7, 8 and 9 which is really nice.   Really good iron shots.

Q.   Just sort of a question, getting into your rhythm, do you think?
JIMMY WALKER:   I haven't been hitting it very good iron-wise.   Everything has been kind of left.   Kind of keyed in on some stuff this week and felt really good.   I was excited to come play.   It was nice to see the ball coming out where it was supposed to.

Q.   Playing a round here any different than any other place on Tour?   I mean more special to win in this area?
JIMMY WALKER:   I'm a Texas guy and lived here a long time so, yeah, winning in Texas is cool, being ability to do it at San Antonio a month and a half ago, whatever, was incredible.   So I'd love to be able to win up here. 
I know there's a lot of fans and a lot of people that went to Baylor so there's a big connection up here for sure even though there is two pretty big schools here.

Q.   Big finish.   7, 8, 9 aren't the easiest holes out there.
JIMMY WALKER:   7, the par 5 I was kind of pulled one left and then hit one in the front bunker, made a really good up and down there. 
8, 9 kind of caught them down off the right a little bit and hit a really big drive on 8 and was able to hit a little kind of chip 9-iron in there to the back pin and made that and then hit 5-wood off of 9 and had a little -- I had a hard pitching wedge that I hit to about 8 feet there and made that.   So, it was a nice finish.   Good iron shots.

Q.   San Antonio is a really tough course.   Obviously this one isn't the easiest in the world either. 
Do you like courses that are a little tougher, more challenging?
JIMMY WALKER:   I do, yeah.   I mean I think it puts more of a premium on quality golf where if it's, you know, if it's no wind and soft and everybody can kind of go in attack mode.   It is what it is.   You win and you play in all different types of conditions.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT