MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2015
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JIMMY WALKER:   I hung in there, made a couple good birdies on the par‑5s.   
And then 13 and 14, just completely over clubbed on those second shots and didn't get up‑and‑down.   
So just left a bunch of little shots out there I probably should have saved today.   But it's all right.   Get it tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Was it kind of frustrating seeing all the low numbers out there?  
JIMMY WALKER:   The course was getable, just by looking at the numbers.   There was four shots I should have saved and I shoot 3‑under and be close to the lead.   But, you know, that's it.   I got to cut that out and do better.   
   
 Q.   You're pretty used to being paired with Tiger.   But could you describe what it was like out there his first round back in a couple of months?  
JIMMY WALKER:   It's different here, because it's different.   If it was a regular tournament, it might have been different.   But it's different here, in a good way.   
The crowds are a bit subdued and they're respectful and don't really ‑‑ it's just a little different here.   But we all had a good day or a good time walking around talking.   It was good.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JIMMY WALKER:   Walking in is pretty good.   
   
 Q.   Pretty low key?  
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   So from door to range, how long is your walk?  
JIMMY WALKER:   Very, very, very short.   
   
 Q.   How pleased are you to ‑‑ obviously, a lot of guys talk about Tiger being back and being good for the game and that sort of thing and the conversation that you guys had throughout the round.   
JIMMY WALKER:   It's good.   I'm glad he's back.   He played okay.   He had a couple wild shots.   We all did today.   So there was nothing big.   
He had some good pars where he got up‑and‑down.   It was good to see him playing good.   It's probably not what he wanted, it's not what I wanted.  
   
 Q.   Seemed like the wind picked up a little bit in the afternoon.   
JIMMY WALKER:   It did.   It was blowing a lot from the get‑go.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT