VALERO TEXAS OPEN
March 28, 2015
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   Jimmy, thanks for joining us again here in the Media Centre here at the Valero Texas Open.   3‑under 69 today.   Puts you right where you want to be heading into the final round.   And with that some comments on the day.
JIMMY WALKER:   It was a tough day today.   It blew really hard, again, out of the south today.   So I know it's a windy golf course, but it's still tough.   The greens are firm.   It's getting firmer.   You can see some spots starting to brown out a bit. 
You had to control your golfball off the tee.   You really want to be in the fairway, some shots downwind, it's hard to control the golf ball but that's key.   Did some good things today. 

Q.   I know 17 and 18 are gettable.   You get birdies on the last two holes to finish, is that the kind of mindset you want to take tomorrow, you're expanding the lead, trying to find some ways to expand the lead, rather than nursing it around out there?
JIMMY WALKER:   I think so.   You definitely want to take advantage of the holes you can take advantage of.   It's a tough golf course.   I thought coming in today that even par, 1‑under, was probably going to be a pretty good score just with the way the wind was blowing.   I knew the greens were getting firmer.   You definitely want to try to extend.   You have to be smart about it, because it's a hard golf course.

Q.   The crucial point was on No. 12, making the decision on the bunker with the steep face there?
JIMMY WALKER:   I didn't really know what to do, I didn't know if the play that I made was going to be right.   It was way under there.   So that was a bummer, but I got it out somehow and then hit a good shot up there and thought if I made the putt that would have been gigantic.   Making 5 was good there. 
But I think the most important was the par‑3 down the hill, I ran one by 40 some odd feet, and that was big, making that, because that was going to keep me from making two bogeys in a row, heading into a par 5.   That felt like a nice momentum shift there for me. 

Q.   It's kind of shaping up as a little bit of a Texas shoot‑out, you and Jordan.   He didn't really think so, because he's fallen four shots off the pace now.   How do you view tomorrow?
JIMMY WALKER:   I view tomorrow that I have to go out and play a good round because, you know, seeing‑‑ it's just hard.   You can get on the wrong side out here pretty quick, it's that kind of golf course, it's hard.   So you have to really concentrate and hit the golf shots you need to hit.   So that's what I have to do tomorrow for me. 

Q.   Sounds like you're not going to be doing a lot of scoreboard watching.   You have to be focused for the reasons you have just given. 
JIMMY WALKER:   I'm going to be playing with Jordan, and I'm sure there's guys that will shoot some good scores.   I'm going to go out and hit the golf shots that I can hit and can do what I can do.   Try to make birdies, and make a bunch of pars and hit the quality shots, because it's going to be hard.

Q.   Going back to No. 12 in the bunker, did it flash in your mind that you wouldn't be able to find the ball?
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, I'm in there digging, I'm moving some earth and I can't find the ball.   Really?   Is it here?   It's here.   I don't know.   It was kind of hectic. 

Q.   What do you expect the atmosphere to be like tomorrow?
JIMMY WALKER:   I think for that last group, Jordan and I played the first two days and we had a lot of people.   And I think probably more people tomorrow being Sunday and the weekend and the last group.   It should be fun. 
DOUG MILNE:   Jimmy, best of luck tomorrow. 
JIMMY WALKER:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT