FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 7, 2015
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome Jimmy Walker to the media center 2-under on the day 8-under on the tournament.  Talk about your round and we'll have questions for you.JIMMY WALKER: The day was good today I drove it well.  Pretty good iron shots.  It was really tough to get close to some of the pins out there today.  I felt like pars were at a premium, maybe sneak a birdie in every now and then.  That was good.  But just try not to make any bogeys.  That was the key.THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions.Q. Do you consider yourself a late bloomer?JIMMY WALKER: I don't know.  That's kind of a seems like a term that -- I don't know.  I've been at this a long time and it took me until I was 35 or whatever to win, 34.  I've been out here a long time, so I don't think I'm a late bloomer, I've been playing on the PGA TOUR since 2005, so I've been out here a long time.  Maybe finding some new stuff going on, but I feel like I've been ready for this for a long time.  But I haven't done it before.  I don't know, it's just me.Q. In that regard, can you talk about how satisfying, how much fun these last two or three years have been when you're winning and in contention a lot, like I'm sure you always planned on.JIMMY WALKER: It's very satisfying.  I've always been a hard worker, I always worked hard.  Maybe not working on all the right things all the time. I feel healthy, where, in the past, I really hadn't.  I feel like we have had that under wraps and had control of that. So, yeah, it's been fun.  It's fun to go out and play good.  I think anybody would say that.  So it's been fun.  It's still fun.  And I'm looking forward to tomorrow.Q. Given your career trajectory, what do you make of this sort of movement where people feel like they're leaving school early, because they have got to be successful by the time they're 25 or they're washed up.JIMMY WALKER: Well, I think kids today -- I didn't have my first real golf lesson from a teaching pro until I was a junior in college.  Kids today are taught from the get-go.  They're seeing instructors right away and they move on to bigger and better guys.  I wouldn't say they're being groomed, but you just look at them, they are more ready today to play out here than they ever have been. Whereas, in the last 15, 20 years, 30 years, we have one every five years that came out that was ready to do that.  Now you've got a whole crop of kids coming that are ready to do that.  Never too young or old to start playing good, I think.  I feel like if you're in good health, good shape -- I still hit the golf ball a long way and just as far as the kids coming out, so, yeah.Q. Seems like your game travels pretty well.  You drive it reasonably straight and putt well, that's good anywhere.  How does your game fit this golf course and do you like playing it?JIMMY WALKER: It's a tough track.  It looks beautiful on TV, there's not much wind and it's still playing tough.  The greens are just firm enough to give you some headaches.  They tucked some of these pins and you just can't get to them.  It's tough. It sure seems like a golf course that pushes you away from pins a little bit.  Where you go to some places and the ball feeds in.  The ball is really not feeding in right now.  So, it's tough.  You hit it the in the rough, the rough is thick, it's decently deep and you never know whether you'll get a good lie or not. I had one on 17 today I wasn't sure -- I didn't think I could get it to the green, but I somehow did.  I mean it was a bad lie.  I got two cuts going and they got a down grain cut and an into the grain cut.  And you're hoping for that down grain, for sure.Q. On 18 did you originally have a 5-wood in your hand before you switched?JIMMY WALKER: I did.  I literally had the exact same yardage to the front today as I did Thursday morning -- Friday morning when we came back.  We had more push down the other morning, because we were 15 yards further back from the tee and that's exactly where I hit it. I took that into consideration, too.  You could just feel the wind, felt like it was left-to-right, a fraction in, and it was going back and forth and I just didn't like the 5-wood again, because it's pretty maxed out, especially with the heavy air you seem to get.  So that's why we ended up going with the cut 3-wood and it turned out perfect.THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT