ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 15, 2018
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just take away, 5-under to start your, to start the tournament.  
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, great day.  Just played super solid.  Lots of good tee shots, played to the corners, just tried to hit a bunch of greens, that's kind of it.  Just hoping to make a few putts, greens are rolling very, very nice, it's been awhile since I played here and the golf course is in phenomenal shape and it was chilly this morning, it's turning out to be an amazing day.   
 Q.  Talk about your final hole of the day?  
JIMMY WALKER: I hit a great drive, right down the middle, a little low hard fade and it kind of got a little boost off that downhill and had a wedge in from 132 and it was just a nice perfect number.  We weren't sure we were going to get it quite all the way there, we were kind of playing to the front of the green.  It's a tight little shot in there, especially with the wind off the left but it worked out nice.   
 Q.  How were you feeling these days?  Keeps getting better and better or do you still have any issues?  
JIMMY WALKER: No, I feel pretty good for the most part.  I would say 95 percent of the time pretty awesome.  It's rare anymore that I have a day where I feel bad.  I had one really bad day last week and the week before that in Tampa or in at the Honda I had a bad day on Wednesday where it just lasted all day.  I don't know why or what causes it, it just happens.  So but I felt great ever since Tuesday of last week.  So that's all I got.   
 Q.  Whatever the last treatment though that you got the last person you went to see, is that, did that set you on a better course?  
JIMMY WALKER: I'm seeing a doctor up in Connecticut.  I'm currently doing a pulse antibiotic -- and I'm on it right now.  Monday will be my last day on this two week pulse -- and then I'm off for three weeks.  So I'm on it right now.  It just makes, I'm real kind of hyper sensitive to the sun.  I walk around with my hands in my pants all the time, my ears are burning, just scab bing up right now, but that's just kind of part of the medication.   
 Q.  How do you use the putter?  I saw you use a few different putters last week.  
JIMMY WALKER: I'm using a red putter today.   
 Q.  How is your game sort of weathered all of the medication and all the ups and downs?  It seems like you've been playing a lot better lately.  
JIMMY WALKER: It really, it hasn't but I'm feeling better and that's the main thing.  If you feel better, confidence comes back a little bit, you can practice and work hard and all of that starts kind of coming together.   
 Q.  When is the last time you played this well?  
JIMMY WALKER: I don't know, I played good at Pebble a few weeks ago.  I'm missing about 10 or 12 holes per tournament that I've been playing in.  So just trying to tidy that up a little bit.  I like what's been happening so far.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT