FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 7, 2015
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Here with Jimmy walker.  Jimmy, this golf course is brutally long, the rough is difficult and I think the key is driving the ball well and you certainly did that today.  Hitting 10 out of 14 fairways.JIMMY WALKER: That sounds pretty good.  Definitely wanted to hit more today than I've been hitting on the first days we played it here.  I drove it better today.  It's still hard from the fairway.  You can see that.  Tucked pins and firm greens, so it's tough.Q. Your game has been spot on for now a couple years, I would say.  You clearly get off to a good starts in the beginning of the year.  You played well though all of last year.  Maybe you didn't, the scoring didn't quite show up like it did in the early part of the year, but there was no fall off in your game, was there?JIMMY WALKER: I don't feel like there was.  I continued to play well.  I played well in all the Majors and the PLAYERS and I had some more top-10s.  So even though I didn't win I felt like I was playing well and was in contention and had some chances.  As we all know, it's hard to win out here.  That's all you can ask for is just keep putting yourself in that position.Q. I was there with you most of the day.  But you're such a grinder.  You seem so calm, but you just don't want to make a bogey.  You just refuse to.JIMMY WALKER: I'm trying not to.  It's hard around this place.  Getting out of here with just one bogey today was big.  It's just, it's tough.  Unless you played it, it's hard to describe.  You see it on TV it looks so green and beautiful and lush, but it's a bear, it really is.Q. Let's talk about that bogey, because it was a good bogey.  It really was.  When you hit that second shot, I go even if he's got a perfect lie in the rough he's not going to go at the flag stick and you almost didn't find your golf ball.JIMMY WALKER: I almost didn't find it.  I had a good enough lie I thought I might be able to chase it up to the front and then it came out low and left. Then I had a really bad one and then it was just trying to get on the green and I ran one by and I made about a 6-footer for bogey.  So that was big.  I rode that in the rest of the way.Q. That putt you hit at 18, how did that miss?  It doesn't look like it's going to go right there.  The hole looks like it's high on that right side but it just bleeds toward the Pacific Ocean?JIMMY WALKER: I had it going right and maybe just not quite enough.  It sure looked good about halfway down there and even to the end, you always kind of looking for that maybe last little poa annua kick to go in your favor.  So it was close.  It burned the edge.Q. Three birdies only one bogey on this tough golf course.  Are you satisfied with your performance on this golf course?JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, you said it, it's tough.  So any time you shoot under par out here is pretty good on the South Course.  Even with light winds, it's still really tough.  They tuck the pins, greens have got a little firmness to them, so it's tough to get it close.  You want to throw the ball behind the hole and spin it, but it just won't do it.Q. Let's fast forward to tomorrow on this tough golf course.  What mentally do you think you have to do to win Sunday afternoon?JIMMY WALKER: Mentally you just have to be tough because you're going to get put into situations, it's just going to happen where you're just going to have to make a good par and you just have to be ready for that and know it's going to happen and then take advantage of good shots you hit and try to make some putts.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT