FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 6, 2015
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How would you rate your performance today?JIMMY WALKER: I played really good.  When you go out on the back nine that's some of the meat of the golf course, those were some really tough holes.  Then you mark the turn on the par-5 then you feel you can make some birdies.  You got three par-5s in a row out there and hit some wedge shots.  So I took advantage of those holes and made a nice birdie on the downhill par-3 on the front.  So it was good.Q. You go back to last year, now this year, seems like you come out of the gate in the calendar year smoking, you won't the Sony Open in Hawaii, your last 10 rounds on the PGA TOUR, you were a total of 50-under par.  How would you describe how you started this year so far.JIMMY WALKER: I played good.  I haven't been making any bogeys, been making a lot birdies.  That's how I would describe it.  I feel nice and rested after the holiday.  I worked pretty hard, but it's casual golf at home, it's not too stressful and I had a good time with the boys at home and did some good work in Vegas with Butch, so I feel good.Q. We have talked a little bit about last year when you had that great start it really leveled out a bit.  What can you do differently to maybe maintain the consistency that you have right now and move far ward in 2015?JIMMY WALKER: I don't know.  I felt like I played pretty well the rest of the year.  I didn't win again but I played well in the Majors, I still had top-10s, I was playing good in big tournaments.  So keeping your, keeping your sanity, your rest level in check I think is huge. So, that's what we'll try to do is stay fresh and that's how I feel, that's how I felt starting the last couple years for sure.Q. How heavy was that spacesuit?  Is it hard to move around in it?JIMMY WALKER: 65, 70 pounds.  A little bit, yeah.  It was too small for me, because I had to hunch down.Q. 6-under 66 in the second round, no bogeys.  Pretty good day.JIMMY WALKER: It was a good day.  Thanks.  I got through kind of the meat of the golf course, which is where we started on 10 on the North, 10, 11, those holes are really good.  If you can get through there about even par, then fortunately like there's that stretch of six or eight holes where you can really try to take advantage of the golf course.  And I was able to hit some good shots, make some good putts.  So that's where the round really materialized.Q. Was it a little bit more fun today than trying to survive yesterday?JIMMY WALKER: South Course can be, put you in survival mode, that's for sure.  I didn't drive it very well yesterday, and the South Course will punish you if you're not driving it in the fairway.  So it was tough, but I made a couple of good pars coming in and got a birdie on 18 to finish off at even.  So that was kind of the goal last night was to come out and get one birdie coming in, get to even par and go have a good day on the North Course.Q. You get a boost of confidence from today for the weekend?JIMMY WALKER: I feel good.  I like where I'm at.  I feel like I started to hit it a little bit better today than yesterday.  So carry that into the weekend and go see what happens.Q. North Course, South Course, playing with Phil, what was the day like and why so good today versus yesterday?JIMMY WALKER: As you all know, historically the South Course is tough.  It hosted a U.S. Open and they have got tough pins, so it's hard to get to some of the pins.  The rough's up.  If you're not hitting the fairway, it gets tough.  So it's a tough golf course. The North is always softer and you can attack more of the pins, the greens are more receptive as to shot shapes and funneling the ball a little bit.  And the par-5s are all reachable, the par-5s on the South are a lot tougher.  So I think that is a good place to take advantage of those par-5s on the North Course.Q. Disappointed with not birdieing the last?JIMMY WALKER: I'm a little bit.  I didn't hit a very good drive, but I was over there and I had a lie and came out a little left.  I had a good lie in the rough over there and it was kind of running downhill towards kind of the water down there and I hit a great chip, I thought it landed right where I needed to, good trajectory and boy, it just hit real soft.  If it gets a firmer kick, it runs down a lot closer.  I hit a good putt, it just didn't go in.  But, no, I'm happy with where I'm at.  It was a good solid day.Q. It seems like you really just keep the momentum going throughout the early part of the season, what's the challenge between keeping that momentum going and not being fatigued from putting yourself continually in that position in general kind of let down you can feel after a win?JIMMY WALKER: Some of this is still a little new, so after Kapalua, I knew I was hitting it good, I knew I was playing good and wanted to carry that into the next week, regardless of what happened in the playoff.  So I knew I was playing good.  Then I continued it that week.  I had two weeks off first week off I didn't do a whole lot, just kind of rest, let the body and mind kind of just chill out.  Then got back to work the next week and I felt pretty good coming in.  I felt like I was right where I needed to be.  I went to Vegas and saw Butch for a couple days and felt rested coming in.Q. Do you think after your first win you played three or four weeks after that, did you find it challenging to go back out after your first win?JIMMY WALKER: After the first win?Q. Yeah.JIMMY WALKER: No, not really.  I can remember after I won, when I won Frys and I showed up in Vegas the next week, I did feel like it was a little bit of a head spinner, whirlwind kind of deal.  I can remember I had to birdie the last hole to make the cut in Vegas and I can remember being more nervous then than I was the last hole of Frys.  I thought that was kind of funny.  But I don't know, I feel pretty calm and confident right now.Q. Can you talk about the first week off you were going to put the new telescope in play.  Did you do that and how much time did that take?JIMMY WALKER: I did.  When I got there, a guy who does this kind of on the side, he's pretty smart engineer at Cal Tech, he does, sets stuff up like this on the side and Paul came out and he met me there on Monday and we started to get to work on it right away.  We had some problems we had to fix so it kind of back logged us a little bit, but by the weekend we got it up and running and there's still a few more little tweaks to do and he had to go, but next time I get home, we'll, I'll get it finished up.  We can do everything kind of remotely and I can be there and do the tweaking manually.Q. How big is the footprint at home of this facility you have?JIMMY WALKER: It's 11 and a half by 15 feet.  So it's not real big, it's just big enough to put the scope in.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT