SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 16, 2015
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I've got to ask you, stuck on 66, never a bad thing usually. 
JIMMY WALKER:   You do that the rest of your life, you're doing all right.

Q.   How was the golf course today?   There was a little bit of moisture in the air.   What was it like when you got out there this morning?
JIMMY WALKER:   It was a fraction softer, but the wind started to pick up and dry it out.   The greens felt maybe a fraction slower this morning than they were this afternoon, even everybody in our group just kind of struggled to get the ball to the hole a little bit.   But yeah, that was it.

Q.   Couldn't get it to the hole on the back nine last night, either. 
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, they look fast.   It's just kind of one of those mental things where you want them to be faster than they are, and then some weeks you can't‑‑ you're knocking them by the hole.

Q.   Your thoughts going into the weekend?   You've got to be excited the way you're playing?
JIMMY WALKER:   Yeah, I feel good.   I didn't hit it quite as good.   I grinded a little harder out there in the middle of the round, but it was good.   I birdied three of the last five, I think, so that was good.   It's nice to finish like that any time.

Q.   Sometimes that's a good thing, though, isn't it, kind you knowing if you go through a little bit of a struggle on a day you can still get a good round in?
JIMMY WALKER:   I think so, and I've got a few things to go work on a little bit on the range after.   Last week was a week where I didn't do much practicing after the round, so I really didn't do any after any round, really, so we're going to do a little bit this afternoon.   I feel like I need it, and be ready to go tomorrow. 

Q.   Jimmy, nice finish to the round.   If we can get some comments. 
JIMMY WALKER:   It was good.   I birdied three out of the last five, I think, so that's a nice way to finish.   It sure makes lunch taste better.   It was more of a‑‑ I didn't quite hit it as good today as I did yesterday, but we ground it out, and it was a nice finish.

Q.   Your thoughts headed into the weekend?
JIMMY WALKER:   Thoughts are I feel good.   It's nice to put up two good scores and have a chance on Saturday and Sunday.   That's what I think we're out here to do.

Q.   What's the strategy for Saturday?
JIMMY WALKER:   Just got to make some more putts and keep hitting good shots.   I think there's going to be a lot of birdies.   I think you see these guys that played well yesterday morning will probably go out and play‑‑ you would expect them to play well this afternoon.   We'll be back a little bit but in a good spot.

Q.   How are conditions this year?
JIMMY WALKER:   It's very green this year.   It's in really good shape, and the golf course is starting to firm up a little bit.   The drive on the last hole went pretty far downwind.   It ran a long way, I think.   But it's starting to‑‑ the rough is up.   You want to be in the fairway for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT