ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 15, 2018
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice to finish on the last hole.  How far did you have?
JIMMY WALKER: I had 132, something like that.  And I think that's a tricky little pin.  The pin's off the left and it's a tight little area.  It's a nice way to finish.
Q. You always say that if you can drive it good you can kind of get around that 60 percent rate.  Today you missed two fairways, drove it right around 80 percent.  Driving is such a huge part for you, do you feel like you're starting to find a little bit of form with the driver?  I mean the stats look pretty good today.
JIMMY WALKER: Yeah, I'll take that every day, all day.  It looks good to me.  It felt good.  There were a lot of irons off the tee, just kind of playing the golf course fairly safe.  I wasn't pushing it today, like I said, just kind of playing to corners and trying to hit some greens.  I thought I hit a few shots kind of close there towards the end and got that one on the last.
Q. How have you been feeling?  I know you've been battling this Lyme disease.  Starting to feel a little bit better?
JIMMY WALKER: I do feel a lot better.  I still have days where -- I had a day last week where I felt really bad all day.  All in all a lot better, mentally feeling a lot better too, which is key.
Q. Great finish.  You dunked that second shot.  Take us through that.
JIMMY WALKER: It's a tough little shot in that front left pin, I think.  I hit a great drive down there, really far, had 132, and we were maxing out a pitching wedge right there.  The wind was in off the left a little bit and just hit a perfect shot.  We were looking for just underneath the hole.
Q. How about your play in this first round, a great way to get it started, all the way to 5-under, but the things that were working for you today primarily?
JIMMY WALKER: I drove it very well today, we played pretty conservative off the tee, didn't push it too far, didn't cut too many corners.  Just played to the corners.  You can get a little fancy here and there around this golf course, but I didn't think today was the day.  I was just kind of seeing it and wanted to just hit a bunch of fairways and greens and make it as boring as possible.
Q. Not the last shot though.  It seems like whenever you come here it's an automatic top-25.  What is it about this place?
JIMMY WALKER: I didn't know that or I would come more.  I don't know -- it's always in great shape and I do like the golf course a lot -- but I don't know, just last couple years, I'm a Texas guy, I tried to play a lot of the Texas events and I just kind of missed it.  It's just fallen into a spot where I couldn't come play and just needed to take some time off.  I got kids now, so we're trying to juggle a lot of things.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT