THE RYDER CUP
September 27, 2014
Rickie Fowler
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  How would you describe the emotion of playing in a Ryder Cup?  RICKIE FOWLER: Jimmy said it pretty well yesterday in the press conversation.  There's a lot of adjectives from ups to downs that you deal with in just one match.  It's pretty crazy.  We've been playing well.  It was nice to make some more birdies today.   Q.  More to the point of the emotion, Jimmy, you guys have to turn around quickly and go back out there.  How do you erase what happened this were morning and then go out there and play a completely different format?  JIMMY WALKER: We'll go in and get some lunch, dry out a little bit.  We do this every week, you do it every night.  You've got to flip the switch.  You got to flush the day and go back out there.  What's what we've got to do. We had a lot of really good stuff happen today, started to see some putts going, which is nice.   Q.  Very busy day out there, what about that putt on 18?  RICKIE FOWLER: It was a good match.  It was nice to -- we made some more birdies today.  Obviously we needed it against Rory and Ian.  It was nice to have a putt for the match there at the last, maybe a little bit outside the range that you're used to making.  But again, it was a chance and felt like I hit a decent putt, just needed to hit it a little harder.   Q.  Jimmy, enjoy your last night here in this Ryder Cup?  JIMMY WALKER: It's pretty fun, I've got to admit.  It's everything I've wanted.  I've had a great partner, one of if best in the world.  And you can't ask for much more.   Q.  I know you guys are going to be busy this afternoon.  Just a quick one about the putt on 18, did you think you had holed it to give the USA the win?  RICKIE FOWLER: It moved little bit more left at the break than I was expecting.  I thought it was going to come back a little more at the end.  Like I said, I needed to hit it harder for it to have any more of a chance.  I hit a good putt on 17, so I'll definitely be looking back at that  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT