THE RYDER CUP
September 26, 2014
Rickie Fowler
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How would you describe that match?JIMMY WALKER: It was tough.  We won 15 (cheering).  Then it was an incredible shot out of the rough on the green.  We tried to get a good look, but it didn't work out.Q. You've played five career Ryder Cup matches, four of them have ended in a tie.  Is there one more of a loss versus a half point gain considering you guys won or do you not look at it and choose to go positive heading into Day 2?RICKIE FOWLER: Half point is still a half point.  It's puts a half point on the board for us. Unfortunately, it hurts a little bit because we were up and we had control of the match coming in.  Rory made an awesome putt on 17, and that's out of our control. Jimmy and I played well today.  We had a great ball striking day.  We didn't get many putts to go in.  We'll get after it tomorrow.Q. Can you sum up your day, a long hard fight?RICKIE FOWLER: It's been a long hard fought day, but that's The Ryder Cup and we walk away with a half point.  It was nice this morning.  Maybe hurts a little bit this afternoon, but it's still a half point up on the board.  We'll keep putting points on the board.Q. Jimmy, you are up and Rory produces that bomb, what are you thoughts about that?JIMMY WALKER: There is nothing you can do about that.  We put ourselves in position to make a par and it's a good par hole.  He makes a great putt there. The last hole, it shifted there way. It's amazing how different a feel it is from the morning to the afternoon.  Still pointing points on the board.Q. Great to see you two playing together.  A turn of events from what happened earlier today on 18?JIMMY WALKER: Just didn't make the birdie on 18, but we played good all day.  The wind was really blowing.  We were in control of the match and Rory makes the bomb on 17.  We were in a good position on 18, it just wouldn't get down.Q. The shot you hit at 16 out of the rough, take us through that.RORY McILROY: I still had a decent lie.  It was a shot similar here on 18 as well.  My partner gave me the go-ahead, if you feel comfortable get it up there.  It came out perfectly.  Wish we could have got that birdie at 18


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT