THE RYDER CUP
September 26, 2014
Rickie Fowler
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GORDON SIMPSON: Jimmy, Rickie, thank you very much for coming in and joining us.  It's been an eventful day, good start for the U.S. and come back for Europe and probably the way The Ryder Cup goes.  Would you give us your thoughts on the first day's Ryder Cup performance?JIMMY WALKER: Exciting, exhilarating, heartbreaking, excruciating.  You get it all.  It was really fun.  So definitely want to come back for more.GORDON SIMPSON: Any other adjectives you can use to describe it?RICKIE FOWLER: It's probably the most fun week of the year, or every other year.  It's a special event, and it's been fun to walk alongside Jimmy the first day and kind of see him go through his first Ryder Cup.  It's something you want to be a part of as much as possible.  It's an awesome event.GORDON SIMPSON: And I suppose these last few holes, the fluctuating nature of it is also just what The Ryder Cup is all about this afternoon.RICKIE FOWLER: I've seen a lot of the last few holes my Ryder Cups with a record of 0-1 and four halves.  Some fighting back, and then today with Rory and Sergio, Rory makes a great putt on 17, nothing we can do about that and Sergio hits a great shot into 18.  We kind of had our hands tied behind our back there, and like I said, not a whole lot we could do.GORDON SIMPSON: You probably thought you were going to close out your match.JIMMY WALKER: You don't ever think that.  Nothing is ever set in stone.  You have your putter out and you're ready to go and you're waiting for your partner to make the putt, but you're always ready to go.  You're always on alert, because you have to expect them to do what they are going to do, and what they can do. So I don't think we let our guard down at all or anything like that.  Didn't expect anything coming in.Q. Just was wondering between yourself and Reed and Spieth, you all played quite well, I don't believe any of you lost a match.  Does that make you feel pretty optimistic for the future, as well as this week, of U.S. Ryder Cup golf?JIMMY WALKER: Well, yeah, it does.  I'm no young-en by any means, this is my first Ryder Cup, but we have got a lot of talent and we have got a lot of talent that's not here.  I'm very optimistic about U.S. golf.  I think it's really strong. So, yeah, I think it's good.Q. You guys were on both sides of the 18-hole flip.  Did Tom talk about the importance of the 18th hole, given it didn't go very well at Medinah?RICKIE FOWLER: 18th hole is always important, no matter what position you're in.  Obviously being down this morning coming in, to get a halve was huge.  Like we talked about with what Rory and Sergio did just now, it's a bit tough but it was kind of out of our control in a way.  But it's still putting points on the board, and if we can keep doing that, we're going to be in a great position.Q. Obviously you've been thinking about this week and getting to this day and finally starting your first Ryder Cup here for a while now.  How did things play out differently or the same as what you might imagine it would have been out there in terms of the emotions and crowds and just in terms of your performance, so to speak?JIMMY WALKER: You know, I didn't really know what to expect.  It was like when I played Augusta for the first time this year, I didn't really know what to expect.  I wanted it to be -- I had it in my head -- I didn't know what to expect.  I knew what I wanted it to be, and it lived up to it. And I knew what I wanted this to be like, and my partner and I, I think lived up to what I thought it was going to be today.  I had a great time playing with him and look forward to more.  But it was just an amazing day.  It's hard to describe.  You've waited your whole life to get here, and I'm 35 now, and to be able to be here with my friends and my team is cool. I really enjoyed every minute of it today.  There's so many times where you just look at the situation and you get chilled and goosebumps, and it happened quite a bit today.  That doesn't really happen very often in tournament golf back home.  You do crazy things here.  There's three hole-outs in our first match, in one day; you won't get three hole-outs in four rounds of golf at a tournament.  It brings stuff out of people that you don't normally see I think.Q. You guys have each spoken about the range of emotions you went through on the course, all the highs and lows.  How do you sort of recuperate, recover and come back out 12 hours from now and do it all over again.  How do you prepare?RICKIE FOWLER: Go have some fun in the team room, relax, grab some dinner and shut the lights out for six, maybe seven, hopefully, hours.  During Ryder Cup week, especially Friday through Sunday, you don't get tired during the day, that's for sure.  You get so pumped up, whether you're down or up.  You talk about the range of emotion, you're up one hole, down the next and it's match play, you put things behind you so quickly.  We'll put today behind us and we know what we need to do tomorrow.  We'll go have some fun in the team room like I said, enjoy the night and we'll come out refreshed.Q. Everyone this afternoon is talking about momentum.  Are you surprised the way Jordan and Patrick played this morning?  They didn't get a go this afternoon.JIMMY WALKER: You know, it's not our call.  The captain is Tom and Tom is going to do what he needs to do.  I think I'm not second guessing anything he's doing.  I don't think Rickie is going to do that or anybody is going to do that.  We are going to go play when we're told and that's what we told him, we'll be ready to go when you play us and we'll be ready to go when you don't.  So I think that's that.GORDON SIMPSON: Thanks for your time, all the best tomorrow.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT