THE RYDER CUP
September 25, 2014
Rickie Fowler
Jimmy Walker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. First Rickie, you guys are going off second.  Comfortable with that pairing going against Bjorn and Kaymer.  How do you feel?RICKIE FOWLER: I like the pairing.  I feel like we're playing against two guys that have played well.  Martin obviously with the U.S. Open, and Jimmy and I have done the same thing.  Jimmy has had an awesome with three wins, and couldn't really ask for a better partner.Q. You practised with him all week, what have you told him about going out there on the first tee tomorrow?RICKIE FOWLER: Haven't talked about it too much, just stuck to normal preparations as far as not changing much, getting ready for a different type of tournament, just like we would -- how we have all year, not trying to change anything. I'm sure we'll talk a little bit tonight and in the morning about what that first tee is going to be like.  It'll be something new for him for it will be fun to be with him.Q. Have you figured out who is going to hit the first ball?RICKIE FOWLER: We haven't exactly discussed that yet, but I'm leaning towards me hitting it.  But if he's strongly about going for it, I'm not going to argue.  But I'm ready to go.Q. Jimmy, over to you.  It's your first Ryder Cup experience.  How has it been so far this week and how do you feel about the pairing?JIMMY WALKER: The week so far has been amazing and I think it's just going to keep getting better.  I couldn't be more happy to have Rickie has my partner.  He's not only a great golfer, he's a good guy.  I like that about him.  I'm really excited to go out and grab a point with him.Q. Nerves on the first tee tomorrow, do you think you will feel them?  What are you thoughts going to hit that first ball?JIMMY WALKER: Oh, yeah, you'll feel them.  You can't not.  It's nothing that we don't do all the time.  He's played on big stage, I've played on the big stage and we know what the do.  I'm excited to step out on the first tee with him.Q. Feel well prepared having practised with him all week?JIMMY WALKER: I do.  Rickie and I have played a lot of golf this year together.  I think we're ready to roll.Q. Bjorn and Kaymer, have you played much with them and what are your thoughts on their games and strengths and where you can take advantage?JIMMY WALKER: I have played with both of them, both great guys, both great golfers.  Obviously Martin has had an amazing year, Thomas has had a great year too.  Played with Thomas a few times, played with Martin a few times. You've got to respect them and we're looking forward to going out and matching up tomorrow


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT