SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2009
Agnes Szavay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. SZAVAY/A. Ivanovic
  6-4, 4-6, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Did you have a feeling before today that this was going to be a good day for you?
 AGNES SZAVAY: Well, I was just playing my game. I had a really tough match in the first round -- or second round on my first match against Schiavone, because she was playing really good. 
 I didn't play my best tennis that day, but I survived the match, and I could won. I was really looking forward to this match.

 Q. You've had a string of good results after several losses. How does it feel to begin to feel that your game is coming back, that you're able to struggle with and beat the top players on the tour? How does it feel?
 AGNES SZAVAY: Well, it's a very good feeling, obviously. I'm really happy that I came out from this position, because I was playing really bad. I played like two months in the row like every week just to have some matches and matches, because I didn't want to lose first round everywhere. 
 So I was playing since the first week of February. I'm going home after this, so I'm going to have a good preparation for three weeks, and we will see how it goes on clay.

 Q. Do you enjoy playing on clay? What do you consider to be your best surface?
 AGNES SZAVAY: Doesn't really matter, but I really like to play on clay, because in Hungary we mostly have only clay and I grown up on clay, so I like to play on it. 

 Q. Looking at the draw for the rest of the tournament, do you think you've got a good chance here of getting far?
 AGNES SZAVAY: Well, I'm playing Azarenka tomorrow, and she's really in a good shape. She just went to the top 10, so she's obviously playing very good now. 
 I'll just try to do my best, what I can, and we will see if it's enough or not. 

 Q. Did you see anything in Ana's game today that made you think during the game that, Wow, this is a day I can really do it? Was there something she was not maybe at her top today?
 AGNES SZAVAY: Well, it was tough to play today because it was windy, like usually here. Like almost every day it's very windy. She's playing very strong and all the balls are coming very fast.
 So she can miss easily I think if it's windy, but I was concentrating on my game.

 Q. Would you consider this to be the biggest win of your career or top 5 when it comes to wins or how would you rank today?
 AGNES SZAVAY: Top 5, but not the biggest.

 Q. What would you consider your biggest?
 AGNES SZAVAY: Biggest? Probably when I beat Jankovic.

 Q. In Hungary, we've seen some countries like Serbia, for example, where one player breaks through and then suddenly coming after are three or four others. Is there many indications that in Hungary there are some players ready to follow you through?
 AGNES SZAVAY: I hope my sister going to be the next. She's 15, and she's playing junior tournaments. Really.

 Q. What's she called?
 AGNES SZAVAY: Blanka. She's playing very good, so I hope she's going to be on the tour.

 Q. Would you play doubles with her?
 AGNES SZAVAY: Yeah, for sure. That's our plan. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT