PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 25, 2007
Agnes Szavay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Can you tell us what happened with the back and the injury in the first set there. 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  I start to feel my back.  It was very tight in the last few days and one nerve is probably going into the joints and it really hurts. 

 Q.  Seemed like you did it on one play.  She hit a cross-court and you were going the other way and leaned back.  Did you feel it at that moment? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Not because of that point.  I guess it was -- every point it was worse and worse and just it's very painful. 

 Q.  How did you feel coming into the match?  Was it painful coming into the match at the start, or did it get progressively worse? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  It was the same as before the last few days so I thought it was going to be the same. 
 It was really bad after. 

 Q.  When did you originally hurt it?  When originally did you injure your back? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  I guess I felt it since I just got to the main draw I guess, or after Stosur maybe.  But at the beginning it was just a little muscle pain and nothing serious, and day by day it was worse and worse. 

 Q.  You were very emotional at the end there.  Was it disappointment to play so hard this week and then miss that? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Yeah.  It's a very bad feeling. 

 Q.  How does this affect you for the Open? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  We will see.  I will go for treatment and massage and we will try the best and we will see what happened. 

 Q.  Can you ask for a late start for the US Open? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  I will play on Tuesday. 

 Q.  I saw Sveta was sitting and speaking with you after the match.  What did she say to you? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  She's a very nice girl.  She always makes me smile.  Yeah, she's really nice and she was really sorry about it.  She was not happy that, again, she won with a retirement. 

 Q.  You got to feel like this was a great week for you though. 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Yeah, it was really, really good and I played really good, and that's why it's disappointed that I had to give up this match.  Especially after I won the first set, so... 

 Q.  At what point did you know definitely know you couldn't finish the match? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  I guess when I won the first set.  I was keep trying? 

 Q.  Is it the first time it's happening to you? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  That I give up a match? 

 Q.  No.  The problem with the back. 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  No, I had once when I was really young.  I was about thirteen years old it happened once. 

 Q.  Same thing? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  No.  That was more serious.  I was keep playing and then I couldn't even walk.  I couldn't do anything, so I didn't want to wait until that point. 

 Q.  Do the physios think it's just the number of the matches that you've played in a week, or is it something more serious? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  I hope it's only because of the matches and I played too much, and also the qualifying.  But we will check with the doctor now.  He's coming probably. 

 Q.  Is it the kind of thing where it hurts in one certain, if you move a certain way, or is it kind of always there? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  I feel like I cannot keep my body straight, so it's like -- I feel it every time. 

 Q.  Before having this problem do you think that you could play your best tennis here in New Haven? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Yes. 

 Q.  Best tennis ever? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Yeah.  It was some best moment, yeah, and I could play not up and down.  I could play really constantly, so that's good improvement. 

 Q.  Did you have any family here to the tournament, relatives? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  No. 

 Q.  Have you called home? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Not yet. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT