PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 24, 2007
Agnes Szavay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Nobody seemed to want to win a serve there in the third set.  How did you manage that? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Well, I tried to put my first serves in because I had a little problem with my back.  It's really tight and I was just concentrate for the movement and I tried my best. 

 Q.  How does to feel to be in your first final? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Really great.  It's such a good feeling and I'm really happy I did it, because from the qualifying it's really tough.  I feel my muscles everywhere, and I hope the physio girls can help me to get ready for tomorrow. 

 Q.  Is your back sore or is it just... 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  It is really tight and one hurts also like going into the joints.  We will see. 

 Q.  You were still hitting the ball pretty well and overcoming that. 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Thank you very much. 

 Q.  When she broke you at 5-4 and the racquet flew out of your hand, what was going through your head at that point? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  I'm really sorry about that.  I shouldn't do that.  I was really angry because I had my chances to serve for the match and I didn't do my best.  I mean, I tried but I made such stupid mistakes and so I was angry. 

 Q.  What do you think the key to your like great run this year has been compared to the years before?  Have you improved certain aspects in particular? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  I had a really good year in 2005 when I played juniors and I started to play WTA tournaments and then I got mononucleosis so I was sick for a half year but I was keep playing because we didn't know.  So I started to play last September, so, yeah, I'm improved a lot. 

 Q.  Have you played Kuznetsova before? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Never. 

 Q.  You seen her play obviously.  What do you think the key will be to beat her? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  To be ready with my back first of all and we will see.  I have to talk to my coach.  He knows her better, and I'm sure he will give me some good tactic. 

 Q.  What is the plan for your back tonight and tomorrow.  Are you getting some treatments? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Yeah, I'm going to the physio now, and I guess I will have a massage also and hoping. 

 Q.  Will you take painkillers? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Excuse me? 

 Q.  Will you take any painkillers? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  No, I didn't. 

 Q.  Can you describe this week just in general what kind of a week it's been for you to just keeping advancing? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  It's a really great tournament I guess, and this is my first time here and my first single tournament in the U.S. this year. 
 It's a really good organization and everybody is nice here and I really like to play here.  And I think it's really important that somebody likes to be here and then it's easier to play better. 

 Q.  Do you think you're exhaustion right now will make you sleep well tonight, or will your excitement keep you up all night? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  I will sleep good. 

 Q.  The players that had matches this afternoon, just about all of them, said the heat got to them.  If it's that kind of day tomorrow, do you anticipate possibly having problems, or will that not bother you if it's a steamy hot day like it was today? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Well, it was really hot today and I didn't practice in the morning or during the day.  Just I was hitting once before my match because of my back.  But it's going to be really hot and I tried to prepare.  I mean, I cannot do anything. 
 I guess I'm going to sweat more in my hands.  That's a little bit bothering me, but I will try my best. 

 Q.  I apologize for asking this if you've already been asked, but can you talk real quickly about the match you just had and what went so well for you in the second and third? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Well, the beginning I guess we didn't play really good, either of us.  That was not a good match.  And in the second set after I just lost the first I didn't play aggressive.  I should play more aggressive. 
 Then I realize it and I started to go for the balls and just leading the rallies.  And then I tried also in the beginning of the third set, but she started to play really good.  I think the final set was really a great set from both of us. 

 Q.  How much of a factor was the crowd?  It really seemed to be on your side. 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  It's unbelievable.  I never played I think in a big stadium like here and it's such a great feeling.  I cannot tell you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT