PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 23, 2007
Agnes Szavay
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  Six matches in seven days.  Are you tired yet? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Yes, I'm very tired, but I hope I can prepare for tomorrow.  The physio really make a good job.  They help me a lot. 

 Q.  There was one point early in the second set that seemed to go on forever.  I mean, you took a breather.  Did it seem like it was three weeks? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Yeah.  That was a really long rally, and I won at the end so I was very happy.  But I guess I lost that game after.  Yes, it was in 2-All at the second set. 

 Q.  It was 2-1 I think at the time in the second set. 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  No.  She was serving.  It was 2-All I guess, yeah, and then I lost it the game. 

 Q.  My memory is terrible. 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  That was a nice point. 

 Q.  When you get into a point like that, does it get you more fired up?  Because, I mean, it must have been going back 15 times, back and forth? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Yeah, it's a very good feeling, especially to win the point.  If you lose it then it's not so good. 
 But, yeah, it was a great point and I won and I could finish it with a backhand winner, so that's a good feeling. 

 Q.  You had that other one later on too when you finally broke her at the end of the second set. 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Yeah.  And then I had the match point with that point.  That was a big rally.  Actually she should finish the point, but I decided the right side and then I could hit backhand winner again. 

 Q.  You gave a big fist pump at that one. 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Yeah, down the line. 

 Q.  I know your goal at the start of every tournament is to go as far as you can, but are you, yourself, surprised at how far you've gone in this tournament? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Well, if somebody would tell me before the tournament I'm going play semifinal I would be really satisfied, but I'm just trying to play my game match by match, point by point. 
 I think I really improved a lot in the last year, so I trying to keep it up. 

 Q.  Are you surprised how quickly you've moved up the rankings? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Well, what can I say?  I'm really happy that I improved a lot, but I hope it's not the end rank of my career. 

 Q.  I guess playing in Italy when you won, what did that mean to get that first win for you, that first tournament win? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  This match that I won? 

 Q.  In Palermo. 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Oh, that was a great feeling.  Yeah, I played really good that tournament, and I started to play my real game and started to play very good the matches by matches. 
 Because sometimes the player just play a good match and then they lose the next day.  I could play really consistent, and that's why I won the tournament I guess. 

 Q.  What do you know if your possible opponents for your next match? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  I guess it's Safina or Daniilidou.  I don't know if they played yet. 

 Q.  They're playing this afternoon. 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  I never played them. 

 Q.  Neither one? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Neither one, so we will see. 

 Q.  Do you feel like an unknown?  I mean, do you think you're still sneaking up on people that don't know how good you are? 
 AGNES SZAVAY:  Well, I started to play very good this year, so probably they don't know me very well as the others.  But I hope it's going change soon. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT