COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 10, 1995
Andreas Barth
Daniel Beauvois
Axel Meyer-Wolden
Brian Tobin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ROBERT LUBENOFF: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for being here
this early and for understanding our news conference had to take place at a somewhat
earlier point of times being the final is starting at 2:00 and not at 3:00 as it would
last year; otherwise we would have time to do this closing news conference. I most
cordially welcome Dr. Axel Meyer-Woelden - I don't have to introduce him; ITF President,
Brian Tobin. Second to the right, Mr. Les Snyder, President of the USTA, the American
Tennis Federation. Mr. Daniel Beauvois, Managing Director of the marketing company of this
tournament, the organizer ISPR and last, but not least, Mr. Andreas Barth, European, CEO
of the title sponsor, Compaq Computers. Dr. Meyer-Woelden.
DR. AXEL MEYER-WOELDEN: Ladies and gentlemen, a very good morning to you. I would first
like to apologize for calling you at such an early time which is rather unusual for me
too. I only learned about this yesterday and nothing could be changed. We couldn't
postpone the news conference yesterday because the tournament -- the starting of the final
has been fixed for 2 o'clock and there is an official lunch at half past 12:00. This is
the reason why we had to invite you at such an early time this morning. I beg your
understanding for this. Could I take the opportunity to say my highest respect to Daniel
Beauvois for the splendid organization of this tournament, of this year's addition of this
tournament. You know that he was in charge as the managing director of the ISPR. For me
personally, after five years, it was the first time that I had the pleasure to watch a
couple of matches in a quite relaxed state of mind and not being officially responsible of
this tournament. At a point in time where there were problems I was, of course, with the
managing team. This does not have to be mentioned. And I gave my advice and my experience
every time I felt people needed it. I would like to thank Andreas Barth, Mr. Pfeiffer, and
representatives of the title sponsor. Without them, this tournament would not be in
existence and wouldn't exist as it does today. Their commitment is tremendous and the
trust we place in each other is something rather unique. At the same time, I would like to
thank the four Grand Slam tournaments represented today by Les Snyder and the ITF, whose
president is representing the organization today, Brian Tobin. Over the years this
tournament and those involved into organizing it have been trusted upon in a most
extraordinary way and your personal presence has shown how you are committed to this
tournament. You may have realized that the chairmen of all four Grand Slam tournaments
have been here, Christian Bimes, John Curry, Les Snyder, and Geoff Pollard. They have all
been here during this week and a couple of others. Without this commitment; without this
linking the Grand Slam Cup to the four tournaments, the outstanding success of this
tournament would have been an illusion. I have kept explaining how open I feel to any kind
of criticism. Still, by way of introduction, I would like to say one thing. It would
appear that the population of the city of Munich and its surroundings, as far as Germany
is concerned, and other countries are concerned, has fully accepted this tournament at a
time where many tournaments, and especially indoor tournaments, would face major problems.
This tournament has a unique record to show in that it has been fully booked from the
first day last Tuesday until the final day. I think this is really something rather
extraordinary and unique and I should like to recall that in a country where tennis is
very, very greatly considered, where great players come from - I am talking about Sweden -
Stockholm will not be in existence anymore as a single week tournament. The city of
Amsterdam couldn't take over for financial difficulties. And when this tournament then
came to Munich and took place for the first time -- came to Germany and took place for the
first time in Essen, as you recall a couple of weeks ago, wouldn't we have -- to show a
very positive record and I could give you examples on end talking about Sydney, or Geneva
and so on and so forth. There are major problems. And as I mentioned, this leads me to
saying that this tournament, its format; the way it is organized, its link to the four
Grand Slam tournaments and the ITF has never had to face these problems. Not only has it
never had these problems, there have never been any reasons for this tournament facing
problems. There has been great tennis here in Munich over the years and if players are
injured towards the end of a long season, players facing an extraordinary strain during
these many tournaments, this is certainly something we have got to deplore. But this is
not something hitting this tournament, specifically. You take the case of Michael Stich.
There have been many tournaments after Vienna. You take Andre Agassi, and he couldn't play
Paris, Bercy and the ATP Final and the Davis Cup and I have always kept saying that if a
tournament cannot do without one or two of these players, then obviously it doesn't have
the quality it requires in order to survive in success. This tournament goes to show this
and I have been approached during the tournament and I feel it relatively easy being the
counselor of Boris Becker, people said this tournament may face problems the day where
Boris Becker is not going to play this tournament anymore. Boris Becker's facination in
any tournament is a great help for any organizer, but I should like to remind you that
this tournament started off for three years without Boris Becker at a time where people
said there is no tournament possible in Germany without Boris Becker, and every year we
sold increasing numbers of tickets and the first time he was here, he lost in the first
round and again we sold more tickets the following year and he lost the second round and
again we increased our ticket sales and this year, Boris Becker lost in the semifinal
match and I truly hope that there will be the fulfillment next year if Boris can qualify
on the final and break the rule and win the final. But as far as dependence of this
tournament is concerned, from a player and especially Boris Becker, this does not exist
and I can say this more easily than anybody else given my function with Boris Becker.
Before ending on my behalf, I'd like to thank you again, the journalists, because you are
those who have been following this tournament in part overall these six years, these six
additions of the tournament. You gave me a hard time in the beginning, I must say, a
couple of problems I had to face, but then I feel that over the years a very good kind of
relationship has been built between us and you know that I am not the kind of fellow
asking for favors. I have never did so in my life. And I am not going to do so today. And
given the function I am in, not immediately involved into the organizing, this is very
easy for me to say. Thank you very much. 
ROBERT LUBENOFF: Thank you, Dr. Meyer-Woelden. ITF President Mr. Brian Tobin, please.
MR. TOBIN: Thank you, Axel. I wasn't expecting to actually say anything - only to
answer questions. But it is, of course, important that we at the ITF again congratulate
Axel and Daniel for the way they have put this tournament together and made it such,
again, a huge success and a bigger success each year. I think the whole organization of
the tournament has, as we discussed yesterday, become a sort of almost a family operation,
and our relationship with Compaq and with Andreas and with Axel; with Daniel, I think has
been a very personal one as well as, obviously, a successfully commercial one. I can only
say that speaking for tennis around the world; I have said it, I guess, for five years now
and I will say it again, the game of tennis has benefited enormously from this event. I
have said to you before that the Grand Slams do receive a payment of $2 million from this
tournament, which goes towards the development of the game in underdeveloped countries. I
wish that perhaps more of you had been here earlier in the week. We shared a short video
on some of the things that have been achieved through the Grand Slam Development Fund. And
I think you, like us, would have been very pleased to have seen the growth of tennis as a
result of what happens here each year in Munich. As I think Axel has pointed out in the
program, one of our early players, Byron Black, finally turned the clock around and became
a competitor in the Grand Slam Cup here, the Compaq Grand Slam Cup in Munich. And that
sort of gave the whole program a kick alone. So the ITF has been delighted with its
involvement with the tournament and continues to benefit and the game continues to benefit
from what happens here in Munich and I'd like to again pass on our thanks to all of the
people concerned here for what we achieved. Whether this is the time, but I did speak to a
couple of people here a couple of days ago, I was asked about the Grand Slam Cup for
women. And maybe the translation was a little mixed, but I just wanted to clarify again
that from our point of view, the offer of a Grand Slam Cup for women has been taken off
the table. It has been there for a number of years. And so far the council of the Women's
Tour has not seen fit to accept it or to put it into the calendar mainly due to
opposition, I would say, from the other tournaments on the Women's Tour, but it is not off
the table for ever and a day. It is off until somebody believes that they really need one
and I think the Grand Slams would be happy to reconsider it if and when that ever occurs.
It had nothing to do with equal prize money. I read that it was because the women didn't
get equal prize money that they didn't want a Grand Slam Cup. That is not the case. It
hasn't been the case for a couple of years. They would be happy to accept an event of
whatever size. But they don't see their way clear at this time. They want to support the
tournaments on the Tour - that is fine. I just wanted to make sure it is not off the table
forever. It is off the table at this time. Thank you.
ROBERT LUBENOFF: Thank you, Brian Tobin. Could I ask Mr. Andreas Barth, European Head
of the Compaq Corporation.
ANDREAS BARTH: Thank you very much. A very good tennis week will end today for us too
and I must say that this tournament, that I have been following for six years now and
where I have been involved in organizing it, building it up for my professional career;
for my personal experience is a very important event. Being a tennis fan, I watched
virtually every match with my guests down in one of the stands and every time this was not
possible I profited from our on-line system "Baseline." I watched the latest and
most recent score. Well, as you know, for the first time, we are on the Internet as I told
you before. Virtually potentially 40 million users worldwide, and on average everyday, we
had 40,000 people taking advantage of this. Well, as compared to the potential number of
users, it is not that much, but since we didn't do any advertising for it and it was the
first time, we are very satisfied indeed. This goes to show to what extent we have been
committing ourselves to this tournament - our name, our brand name, our company image, is
-- so that we owe this to the public and to create customer satisfaction and this, in this
case, in this week means great tennis, worldwide media coverage, which was excellent, and
a perfect organization. And although this tournament right from the beginning has been a
top class event right from its start, it has still taken a most positive development over
the years and this thanks amongst others to this very good corporation of Dr.
Meyer-Woelden and Daniel Beauvois, ISPR; Grand Slam Committee; ITF, and as the other
gentleman just stated, is really true over the years, we have really become part of this
Compaq Grand Slam Cup family. We appreciate this most greatly and this is the reason why
we decided to commit ourselves to the future of this tournament. We signed the second
sponsor period last year which will make sure this relationship goes on until the end of
this century and we do not want to be an ordinary sponsor paying money for the tournament,
but we want to be people bringing the technical and marketing know-how into this
tournament and making this tournament and tennis, at large, even more successful. Tennis
sport and techniques cannot be separated anymore because it is the technical side that
helps to make sport even more attractive for the crowd, for the audience, and if tennis
wants to remain at the forefront of professional sport, the sponsors; the organizers have
to be most innovative indeed. This is what we are trying through this commitment and
through our know-how. Now, thank you very much, the journalists, for having been with us
most successfully over the week and covering the tournament. I wish you all the best and
hope to see you again next year in order to provide an even better service to the
journalists.
ROBERT LUBENOFF: Thank you very much, Mr. Barth. Could I ask Mr. Les Snyder,
representative of the Grand Slam Committee, to say a few words about the tournament from
the point of view of the Grand Slam Committee.
LES SNYDER: Thank you very much. It is my pleasure to be here as the unofficial monitor
of the Grand Slam chairman. I have been fortunate enough to be at this tournament for
every year since the inception and I would say that each year the tournament has grown in
stature within the tennis community and we think that we are offering a great benefit to
the growth of tennis. I want to thank Compaq. I want to thank the tournament organizers.
It has just been very, very good to see this grow in the manner that it has. I would also
like to say to you, the press, if you recall when we had the first Grand Slam Cup, why,
there was a lot of speculation that took place in the press about the nature of the event.
I think that the events of this week certainly indicate that this is a tournament of great
stature within the tennis community and the Grand Slam chairmen are very pleased with the
way that this has progressed. The four Grand Slams represent major events within the
tennis events throughout the year. For us to have this as a cap stone event at the end of
the year, makes a lot of sense and it helps to bring together the outstanding players that
have participated in our tournament. So I, again, want to thank you all for what you have
helped in terms of getting the message out regarding the strength of this tournament and
regarding the high quality of the event. Thank you very much.
ROBERT LUBENOFF: Thank you very much, Mr. Snyder. Before ending the statements, could I
ask Mr. Daniel Beauvois to take the floor.
DANIEL BEAUVOIS: You heard a lot of talking, ladies and gentlemen and so I will be
quite brief and just give you our impression as the marketing and managing organization -
we are most satisfied. I suppose we are entitled to be satisfied with a few hundred
tickets on Thursday, except these, the hall has been fully booked over the week and this
means that there is still some minor room for improvement next year, just a couple of
hundreds of tickets. On behalf of the ISPR and the whole staff of the ISPR, I should like
to thank Dr. Meyer-Woelden, ITF and Grand Slam Committee for the trust they placed into
our organization, which was a major challenge, hard work, for each and every one of us. We
are very glad we succeeded to keep that high level Mr. Meyer-Woelden created for this
event, and it goes without saying, that we are going to do our utmost in order to make
sure there will still be headway and improvement. I shall be glad to welcome you again
next year and I, on behalf of the ISPR, wish you a very Merry Christmas and excellent
year, 1996. Thank you very much.
ROBERT LUBENOFF: Thank you very much, Daniel Beauvois for these statements. It is up to
you. You may have questions to ask.

Q. At first, Dr. Meyer-Woelden, you said or I read you were considering a ladies
tournament. I hear the contrary now. Why is that?

DR. AXEL MEYER-WOELDEN: Well, you know that many things come up and are said and stated
and printed and sometimes things are written that seem to lack the research required from
a journalist. I have been asked the type of vision I would have for this tournament and
then I said that the Grand Slam tournament would also comprise the ladies participation in
the tournament would be really fully complete the day where the ladies are in such a
tournament and then I declared that I could not consider this for the remaining part of
this -- not in the remaining part of this period towards the end of the century. I thought
it was realistic. I am not the one to trigger off for this. It is a matter of policy, as
you know, and the only thing I can do is having the visions.
JOHN PARSONS: First of all, it is not so much a question, just an observation. Dr.
Meyer-Woelden did, more or less, apologize earlier the fact that this press conference was
having to be held at this time. I think you should be aware that a lot of my colleagues
from different parts of the world who are here were very cross that this press conference
was being called at this time because it really is an impossible time for them to get
here. They don't need to get here as early as this for the work they have to do today. I
just think that point should be made and that at another time, if you are going to hold a
press conference like this, which, after all, is a means of selling the tournament - it is
a public relations exercise, for the tournament to expect the journalists to come here
with three hours to wait between this and the actual play starting, is not really on. I
just thought I would make that point. Again, I think all of you know I am a great
supporter of this event. I think the concept is terrific. If anyone had come up with the
idea of a Grand Slam Cup before you had the Grand Prix years and years ago, people would
have said what a wonderful idea and it would have taken off wonderfully well. It has been
a success this week. It has got better here year by year - there is no question about it,
but I think there are still issues that need to be addressed and one in particular is the
date. I'd like to know what you feel about this. I mean, there is a general feeling,
certainly among the journalists, that if this tournament was able to be staged in, say,
early October, a month after the U.S. Open, it would be a natural progression of the Grand
Slams. It probably wouldn't cut into Super Series events on the ATP Tour and, in any case,
if you gave the ATP Tour enough warning of this before they start their new calendar again
in 1997 or 1998, they wouldn't really be able to complain that you would be taking one of
their weeks away. Not only that, it might ease the problem of players being exhausted at
the very end of the season. There are so many ways in which I think this tournament could
be even better, much, much better than it is now, successful though it is, if you changed
the date and had it earlier.
DR. AXEL MEYER-WOELDEN: Before you start, Brian. John, I said this at the beginning,
you know, we apologize and be sure, next year you don't have to wait three hours for the
press conference and starting time. So I just can apologize. It happens sometimes - sorry.
MR. TOBIN: John, I think it is fair to say that all of us have been thinking about this
very problem and the questions of the bottleneck, I guess, at the end of the year where
you have got the women's finals, the ATP doubles finals, singles finals, Davis Cup, Grand
Slam Cup, and there has got to be a way of easing that a little bit by spreading it. You
are also correct in saying that we have got time between the U.S. Open and the end of the
year to play this event given a little time to get it ready. And so, there has got to be
some room to move. You know, we are not that happy about the Davis Cup final, either,
falling right in the middle of this end-of-year rush to finish. We discussed it a little
at the Grand Slam Committee meeting yesterday -- yesterday? Friday. Axel raised it. We
have also had been talking about it. I can only say that I have been in touch with the ATP
some six or seven weeks ago now to talk about dates, so far, actually, I haven't had a
response, but I know that we are talking about 1997. They are still in the process of
getting 1997 preliminary fixed in their minds and it is one of my priorities next week to
make some contact again to initiate some discussions. We haven't got any conclusions on
it, but you are right, it is something we need to avoid, if we can, and we will be trying
to initiate some discussions mainly with the ATP Tour to try and alleviate that a little.
Looking at the calendar for next year, for reasons that they have, I think the doubles and
the singles have been flip-flopped and so next year we have the ATP doubles; we have the
ATP singles and the women's finals both the same week and then the Grand Slam Cup
immediately after, and that really doesn't make sense either. So whether anything can be
done in 1996, I don't know. I doubt it. But we are going to talk about it.

Q. I was thinking looking now at 1998 to discuss?

MR. TOBIN: They are still fixing the calendar for 1997.

Q. Forget them. You tell them when you want to play it. It is about time.

MR. TOBIN: Noted.
DR. AXEL MEYER-WOELDEN: Not being worked into the politics, John, I always kept out and
as somebody who is independent and running such a tournament, you know, I believe you
should not overestimate your influence which you have and your power which you can bring
in. But honestly, I agree with you. And for me, there are two very important things on the
table. One thing is that I believe that the ATP as well as the ITF and the four Grand
Slam, they have to do the best for tennis and with all the competition which is involved,
they should not forget that they talk about a sport and they talk about people being
involved in the sport and they serve all people being interested in this sport, the format
and the system. And instead of fighting against each other, they should come to a
conclusion doing the best for tennis, and I tried to mention this in the way as I do, not
going against the ATP and talking for the four Grand Slams through being combined with
them. So I tried to do it objectively. That is the one statement. The other one is if
there should not be an agreement, then I am with you. I believe then the four Grand Slams
should use their power and starting already in 1998 and saying, okay, that is the date.
And they have a lot of possibilities to get this done and, as everybody knows, that this
event, the Compaq Grand Slam Cup has no obligation, so the players have no obligation to
play it. They do it because they like to do it, but if this would come in a fight, there
are a lot of possibilities to bring it through, by saying who is playing a Grand Slam
event has to play the Grand Slam Cup too and other things more and I thank you that you
mention this. I believe we should see this very clear. Thank you very much.
CRAIG GABRIEL: Les, representing the four Grand Slams, how would the individual Grand
Slams, do you think, feel about that if this event was to just go on its own and stage it
in the October timeframe when you consider the ATP at your event at the U.S. Open made the
concessions with prize money and points, etcetera, for the Grand Slams, how do you think
the approach -- what will be the feeling?
LES SNYDER: Well, I think the feeling would be that the first place to start is that we
initiate some active discussions. That decision was made in the last two days that we
become quite involved in trying to look at are there other alternatives to where we
currently are. There is dissatisfaction and the question becomes trying to get what is a
good deal for both parties and if that is not possible, well, then, you know, we have to
look at other types of things. But I think the first stance we need to take is really
examining what can we do and approach it that we have a common problem.
JOHN PARSONS: Craig mentioned the question of points which, of course, they are not
giving for the Grand Slam Cup. I don't know what you feel, but again there is a thought
that perhaps it would be best if there were no points for either the Grand Slam Cup or the
ATP Tour Championships. Again, from the best point of view of tennis, I don't know, do you
feel that this is also an issue worth taking up with the ATP because it gives the
impression that the points that they get in Frankfurt are overprotective for certainly the
first half or more of the next year which is the top players and it is probably unfair on
those who can't get there.
LES SNYDER: Well, I think -- not "think," I know that what we did was went
through a rather lengthy and sometimes very painful examination of what are the things and
that is the nature of give and take. We are trying something for a period of time and my
hope is that we are going to be able to lead to more things that we can do that will be
the for the betterment of tennis. You are right that there are some logical
inconsistencies in the way that it is put together. But I firmly believe that we got -- we
really labored. I mean, that is just the way it is. We labored to get to the point that we
are right now. But I think we will be able to approach this and come up with some good
ideas for the future.
CRAIG GABRIEL: Would there be any consideration to going back to the original way?
Prize money was distributed over here and drop the aspect of $250,000 to each player that
wins a Grand Slam event? Some have suggested that Pete Sampras was here to pick up the
500,000 and just play one match. So what are your thoughts on going back to the original
format? And Brian, as a follow-up, would the ITF endorse that?
DR. AXEL MEYER-WOELDEN: You know, Pete Sampras was the first winner of the Grand Slam
Cup in the first year. Pete Sampras showed up each year. So if there is a sportsman, Pete
is one of them. Pete came to me. We talked under full eyes and being honest enough, no
doubt at all, that he would be a guy picking up money and leaving the tournament -
absolutely not! He even promised that if he is qualified, he would appear next year and he
did it each year. So I would ask you not to have such kind of doubts in his case,
absolutely not! No, I don't think we should change it because the four Grand Slam winners,
they do a lot, you know, they are giving a lot of promotion for this tournament and they
are the champions and through the format which we have, we cannot do anything for them
because it could be the case that they are losing first round and I wouldn't have a good
feeling that a Grand Slam winner is leaving the tournament first round and is exactly
handled as a No. 16, respectively, and jumping in the tournament. On this kind of level of
tennis, everybody can beat everybody. Muster, you know, he has given some criticism to the
tournament and I take it serious. But Muster earned it. He was a winner of the French
Open. And his preferred surface is clay court. Of course, he does not have the same
chances here at this tournament indoor with the surface. So I feel pretty good that he got
his bonus. Whatever he said, I have a good feeling. So I personally don't believe we
should make any change.
MR. TOBIN: Craig asked me. I agree with Axel. One of the criticisms we faced when we
initiate this event was that the prize money was too high in Munich. And I don't
necessarily agree with that. As Axel says, it tends to be an overall bonus for the year's
work at the Grand Slams. We look at it that way. The fact that somebody gets $100,000 for
playing in the first round is partly due to the fact that he got here by his performance
during the year and as Axel pointed out, the money was divided so that each of the Grand
Slam winners really got a bonus for their performance in the Grand Slams during the year,
so Muster, being a clay court expert at least got a bonus for winning the French even
though he had to play on a faster surface here and wasn't perhaps quite as happy with it.
So I don't see any reason to change what we are doing either.
DR. AXEL MEYER-WOELDEN: It is not so new, by the way, the idea go back to the Masters.
ROBERT LUBENOFF: Any further questions, ladies and gentlemen?

Q. Monsieur Beauvois, if you are at the top of success, every top manager would say you
must be even more awake and careful and think about progress and improvement. Doing so, do
you consider what you could do, Boris Becker complained rightly yesterday about while he
is labouring on the court, people would leave the hall in order to eat and the hall is
half empty and then come back and go back and forth. Do you think about this?

DANIEL BEAUVOIS: Look, we must analyze all this and we are going to do so shortly after
the tournament with our organization team and every minor detail will be discussed. What
has been good and less good and in fact, you are right to say -- this is a point I noted
yesterday. I don't know the answer right now, but this is one of the points we are going
to analyze. It is difficult with any tournament; given the configuration of this hall, it
is almost unavoidable. People would leave and come out. You take the fourth level with the
hospitality, it is so close to the court that there is a lot of noise from the cafeterias
and so on, and we must study this most seriously. We want to find a solution. We are not
going to refurbish the Olympiahalle, I suppose.

Q. Well, something you could do, at least, is the stands where people walk very close
to the court, if they leave the hall on the top part of the stands, it is not that bad,
but down at court level, they leave in hundreds?

DANIEL BEAUVOIS: You know, the stairs and so on, everything is part of the
Olympiahalle. We can't bind them to their seats; can we?

Q. Well, for the psychology of the players, I suppose, it is a major problem?

CRAIG GABRIEL: A few of the players have commented that the court is too fast. Would
you consider slowing it down at all? Even some of the players who prefer a faster surface
have suggested that maybe it should be slowed down a little bit.
DR. AXEL MEYER-WOELDEN: Yeah, you know, we are discussing this each year. What we have
done this year is, being honest, I would have preferred having the court of Frankfurt
here. I gave it in the discussion. ISPR has decided to take again the Supreme Court, but
being honest, you know, when we talked about the court, the fabricators of the Green Set
explained to us that this Green Set is as fast as the Supreme Court. There is no
difference at all. Not at all. The first. Second, what we really have to consider is we
have to look to the balls. We have to do something with the balls. I will consult with
Bill Dennis. Third, you know, each tournament has its own character. Our character is
this, so people talking about the altitude of Munich, they talk about the court is too
fast. I don't know if anybody has realized that Boris Becker is playing Todd Martin, two
serve and volley players and they have needed three and a half hours for four sets -- four
hours and 50 minutes for four sets. The first two sets, one hour 45 minutes. And there
were a couple of rallies. Or when you have seen Kafelnikov playing Ivanisevic yesterday I
think were pretty nice rallies, you know, so the discussion we had each year one of the
most longest matches we had here in Munich, so it is maybe a bit special, I agree with
you. I will take care of it with Bill. By the way, Bill, thank you for all what you have
done - I see you - I forgot to integrate you. But I will care for it.
DANIEL BEAUVOIS: Maybe I could add concerning the decision of the court, as you notice,
this is a new court we have installed. We have indeed spoken with other manufacturers
including Green Set. They indeed ensured us they will not be able to deliver us a slower
court in Supreme Court and so far, there was no point to change manufacturers, especially
when we are pleased with the partner delivering the court to us. The brief we gave to the
manufacturer - and this is a new court - that it should be 25% slower than the court that
was used in the past. This was the written brief given to the manufacturer.
ROBERT LUBENOFF: If there are no further questions, I should like to thank you again
for your early appearance and we meet again after the finals for the news conference.
Thank you very much.
JOHN PARSONS: I complained at the start of this meeting, you may be wondering then why
so few of us came and supported your meeting about the Grand Slam Development Fund which
was half past 3:00 and a perfect time before play started. It was because we should have
known, Munich, like the rest of the world, the traffic is impossible on Friday afternoon.
There were a lot of us trying to get here, but we couldn't. (LAUGHTER) We will know to
start earlier next year.
ROBERT LUBENOFF: John, this morning there was no traffic on Sunday. (LAUGHTER).

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT