RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2018
Florentyna Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It was a tough start, but what a way to bounce back.  How do you reflect on the 3-under after your first 18?  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: Well, I mean it was amazing.  I mean my start, you know, it's just one of those where you just think, why can I not just start again?  I was four over after five holes.  Then I got two birdies that got me back.  I was 2-over, and you kind of think it's okay.  And then I holed my shot on 9, so a nice hole-in-one, and I said to my caddie, that's a level par, start again.  And it basically gave me a second chance, and you don't really get many of those in golf.  So it was great, and then my putter started working and the birdie on 18 was a bonus.   
 Q.  Talk me through the ninth hole.  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: The ninth.  Yeah, so I was 2-over par, and, you know, you think just hit the green, you know, because you're not playing great.  It was a quite short hole, downwind, and my caddie said, yeah, 8-iron, I wasn't sure, 7 or 8, since the wind is strong.  Hit my 8-iron, and I was like, whew, just get it on the green, and it was direction to the pin, and bounced, I think, a few times and then it just disappeared, and then it's just like you can't believe it really.  It was, yeah, amazing.   
 Q.  He'll be taking the credit for that knowing that he got you the right club.  How many is that that you've got?  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: I've had three.  But my first in a major.   
 Q.  You spoke about the mindset after the start.  It's difficult when you haven't played lots of competitive golf coming into a major like this.  How do you kind of get that mindset right?  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: Well, the thing is it's my tenth Ricoh.  I mean I'm not new to this game.  And I know what can happen on a golf course, especially one like this.  And you know, sometimes it helps, because you're like, I've got nothing to lose.  And I hit some shots on the par-5s, I think 6 and 7, or especially 7, I'm like, well, I'm going for it because it doesn't matter.  And maybe when you're doing quite well to start with, you might hesitate, play more careful, and for me that was never an option after that start.  I was just going to go for it basically.  So that helped me in a way that I had nothing to lose, and just go for birdies.   
 Q.  You're now in a great position heading into tomorrow.  Does this feel a little bit like coming home?  I mean I know your membership is down at Birkdale.  It's not too far away.  Do you feel a bit of home support out there?  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: Yeah.  It's lovely being here.  I played at Royal Birkdale two weeks ago.  I thought practice links golf.  It didn't work for me last week, but I'm hoping it's catching up with me now, and you put a lot of hard work into it, and then you have weeks where you just don't see the effort you put in.  And then this week, you know, I wasn't really expecting much because I'm not playing overly great, but the last few holes I thought I hit some really nice iron shots, and I'm playing quite nicely off the tee.  So that's really useful around this course, especially -- I mean the start is just brutal, and I said, you know, start and the finish.  I said in the middle you can have quite a few birdies, but it just all worked in my favor today.   
 Q.  It certainly did.  Well done today, and good luck tomorrow.  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: Thank you.   
 Q.  Ricoh will donate money towards the ^ Alzheimer's research for birdies and eagles.  Hole-in-one triggers a 2000-pound donation.  It's pretty cool to put your name against something like that.  How does it feel?  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: Yeah.  It's great.  We've actually been supporting Alzheimer's of charity for a while because my grandmother was diagnosed with it.  So it's a great charity, and I'm pleased to have contributed in such way.  I got a few birdies as well, so that should add to a few.   
 Q.  We should add up how much you've actually contributed today.  We'll do that.  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: I still can't remember.   
 Q.  You had six.  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: Six and a hole-in-one.   
 Q.  Yeah.  Great.  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: Yay!   
 Q.  You were obviously 2-over before you had your hole-in-one.  What was it like to get yourself back to level par?  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: I was four over after five, so I'm just living a nightmare.  I'm just, what am I doing here.  I so want to go.  The par-5s were coming up, 6 and 7, and like I said, I played quite aggressively whereas maybe I might not have done if I'd been in like a more normal position.  So that basically got me going, and got two back.  And then, you know, you're not too far away, with 2-under, it's not that bad around this course on the front nine, and yeah, the hole-in-one was just -- I mean it's amazing really.   
 Q.  Did it look good all the way?  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: Yes.   
 Q.  Did it bounce?  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: Yes, it did bounce.  I'm not quite sure how many times.   
 Q.  8-iron, 140.  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: 8-iron.  Meters.   
 Q.  It's 140 yards.  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: It was 130 -- it was 133 meters, I think.  134 meters.   
 Q.  34, so plus 10 percent?  
FLORENTYNA PARKER: Yeah, it's 137.  Downwind, so.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT