OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 9, 2016
Florentyna Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you assess that?
FLORENTYNA PARKER: Three bogeys, three birdies, I'm quite pleased with it because it was really windy today.  I managed to keep it going and bogeyed 16 but birdied 17, which I think was very important to make sure I get into that last group tomorrow.
Q. The wind seemed to be different strengths at different parts of the course.  Some places it was quite calm and others it was really gusting.  Must have been hard to get your distance right.
FLORENTYNA PARKER: Yeah, for us, I think it was windy all the time.  I'm not sure where you were standing.  It's really hard.
But obviously I'm from England so we're used to the win.  I think that's good and it's in my favour.  I did well with my clubs apart from once.
Q. Your mother is on the bag this week.  How has she been?
FLORENTYNA PARKER: She's behaving.  She's behaving, so that's good.  Yeah, she loves it and obviously the last time it was in Italy and I won, so she's getting more expensive each time.
Q. You've had such a good season.  Would it be fantastic it crown it off with a win here?
FLORENTYNA PARKER: The only thing I haven't done this year is win and that's all I'm going to do tomorrow.  And I'm just going to go for it.  That's what I've got to do.  Even if I finish second or third, I'm not really interested.
Q. So this is the second time that she's caddied for you?
FLORENTYNA PARKER: She's caddied before, but the last time was when I won in Italy in 2014.  She has no idea about golf.
Q. What do you normally talk when you're out on the golf course?  She's of no help?
FLORENTYNA PARKER: No, she doesn't play golf.  I tell her to stand.  That's what we talk about, where to stand for the next shot and not be in anyone's way.  We just talk about non-golf things.
Q. Is that a bit of a help?
FLORENTYNA PARKER: I know what I'm doing and I know what I have to do.  We have the yardage books and we have the green books.  There's nothing else we need.  Obviously with the wind now, if you have a good caddie, it might help.
But luckily it's quite consistent from the direction, so we have the compass in the book, so I know where it's coming from, so I just need to do my own thing.
Q. Can you tell us her full thing?
FLORENTYNA PARKER: Gina Parker.
Q. And just something about the back nine today, you scored so well yesterday or the day before.
FLORENTYNA PARKER: It was completely different and then I teed off on 10 on Wednesday, and there's no wind, it's calm, it's in the morning, the ball is holding.  I just went for it, because I struggled here the last three years, and I think 2010 was my best result being fourth.  I shot 6-under I think on that nine, or 5.
I said, I need to do the same.  Just have a fast start, and I did, and that was great.  I know I can do it, so I need to, the front nine is hard, a lot harder I find.  I need to just stay around par and then on the back nine tomorrow, I'm just going to have to go for it.
Q. What are you going to tell yourself tomorrow?
FLORENTYNA PARKER: That I've got nothing to lose.  I've had a great season and the only thing that's missing is me winning.  So that's what I've got to go for.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT