OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 8, 2010
Florentyna Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. That round got off to an incredible start, 5-under par through seven holes, what are you thinking and feeling at that point?  
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: Well, I want more birdies, I did the first few holes, I hit it really close and made the putts. It was really fun.   
 Then I had a par spell, and it was getting a bit boring and I wanted a few more birdies. But made birdie on 6, which was nice. Dropped a shot on 8 but was a tricky hole today. No, I'm really happy with my round.  
  
  Q. I've been doing a bit of digging and I found out you've got a cousin who is a golf pro in Dubai, have you been having a bit of sneaky practise?   
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: Yes, I have. He's a golf pro at Al Badia Golf Club, and I've been here for nearly two weeks now practising, because there's snow at home. So yeah, it was great to be able to practise and get prepared.  
  
  Q. Sometimes when a player wins for the first time, they play the way they feel about themselves on Tour and feel more comfortable. How was it for you?   
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: I felt comfortable my first year, but obviously when you win, it gives you more confidence and any time you tee it up, you know you can do it. Yeah, I've been feeling really good about this week.   
 I love Dubai and I love the course and yeah, I got off to a great start. That's what I struggled with last year. I always struggled the first round and was always a few shots behind and now I'm absolutely delighted that I gave myself a good chance.  
  
  Q. What's your philosophy going forward for the next three rounds?   
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: I don't know, just come off the course. Tomorrow, we'll see, I don't know, play the same. I'm playing well, I'm hitting it well, putting well and holed a few nice putts. Just continue the way I've been playing.   
  
  Q. Being the leader, how is that going to make a difference coming into the second day?  
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: Well we still have three rounds left and so many more shots to be played. Obviously everyone wants to be leading after the first round because that gives you the best opportunity to win, and I'm delighted if I stay in this position or if I'm a shot behind or so; I don't think it matters at this stage.   
 Tomorrow, I'll just be playing the same as when I teed it up this morning.   
  
  Q. When you look back on the round, what do you think was the key today?  
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: I just had a great start. I just started great and I was hitting it really close to the pin and made the putts, which was also a bonus. You don't all hole the three, 4-footers, but they went in and I felt really comfortable.   
 Then you've had a few birdies and then you think, well, I can birdie every hole, you know. So I started off with two birdies and went to my caddie, only got 16 more to go. No, it just gives you confidence. If you get off to a bad start, you're always a bit nervous and you worry and how is it going to end. But I felt really good.   
  
  Q. How did the course play?  
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: Good. To be honest I thought it was a lot tougher than last year. The fairways are quite narrow and the rough is thick and the greens are solid.   
 So if you are coming from the rough on to the green they are just going to shoot off. So I was quite lucky, I hit a lot of fairways and was able to control the ball on the green.  
  
  Q. Playing tough?  
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: Yes. It's quite long.  
  
  Q. And do you feel you can keep the momentum going forward the next three day?  
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: I hope so. Obviously I can't control what the other players are doing, someone might shoot 62, so that's up to them. But I'm playing good golf, so I hope I'll have another steady round tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Your cousin?   
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: Matthew Parker.   
  
  Q. How long has he been here?   
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: A year now.   
  
  Q. How old is he?  
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: 24, he's three years older. I was in Abu Dhabi a week and then a week with him. Yeah, it's been good.  
  
  Q. Does that give you any sort of advantage?  
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: Well, I think a lot of the players have been here or been in the warm weather because in Europe, at home, most countries, you can't play. Yeah, obviously I think you have to do it; it's our job, so we need to prepare. That's the way I prepare. I love Dubai. I come here very often.   
  
  Q. Does he know this course well?   
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: Yeah, he's played it himself. But my father's my coach; Matthew's not my coach. I just feel very comfortable and have a gait time whenever I'm in Dubai.   
  
  Q. Are you here quite a lot?   
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: Yeah.  
  
  Q. How often in the course a year would you be in Dubai?  
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: Five, six times.   
  
  Q. 5-under after seven holes, did the idea of course record come to your mind?   
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: To be honest, no. I wouldn't know what the course record is.   
  
  Q. 64, Louise Stahle.   
 FLORENTYNA PARKER: Well, tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT