US OPEN
August 27, 1997
Luke Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. So, Luke, fairly swift reduction of the Grand Slam.

LUKE SMITH: Yeah. It went pretty quick. You know, I've played a couple ATP events now,
but I hadn't played anyone up to this caliber. My highest ranked player, I lost to
Bjorkman last week in Indianapolis, week before. I think he's ranked like 25. I knew it
was going to be tough. It's really another level where he just kind of picked apart my
game style, you know, where I serve and volley, chip, charge. Even when I thought I
returned really well, he still came up with big passing shots.

Q. Is there one particular difference, perhaps the speed of the game? Is that
different?

LUKE SMITH: Yeah. You know, even when we stopped back on the baseline, it wasn't that
tough. I mean, he just worked the point around. The main difference was that his
consistency on his passing shots really surprised -- kind of surprised me. Even when I put
in a good serve, his returns were always down low. Even when I put in a good volley, I
mean, if he didn't go for a clean winner, he at least made me stretch for it. He was able
to cover the line for a passing shot, able to hold the ball on his racquet a bit longer
and kind of wait for the opening. He didn't really miss many passing shots. I think my
coach said he missed maybe four passing shots for the whole match. That's with me coming
to the net probably 80 percent of the time.

Q. What's the schedule, basically, for you?

LUKE SMITH: Well, after this, I'm going to go train with the Davis Cup team for
Australia down in Washington for a couple weeks leading up for the Davis Cup, which starts
the 19th. Then, you know, I'm not really dead sure with my schedule, because I'm still
going through agents at the moment. I'm not with an agent at the moment. Discussing it.
But I'm probably looking towards going to Asia, there's a couple of ATP events there, then
coming back and playing some Challengers and finishing up in Vegas, there's a Challenger
in Vegas in November. Going home, there's a tournament in Adelaide, where I'm from, in the
beginning of January, then leading up to the Aussie Open. 

Q. Which one?

LUKE SMITH: IMG, Vantage, ProServe, kind of talking to all of them at the moment. I'm
leaning toward ProServe at the moment. They've spoken to me the most. I'm going to make a
decision by the end of this week. I mean, he haven't even picked clothing companies
either. If you see me on the court, I'm wearing Prince shorts, Nike shoes, Oakley glasses,
playing with Pro Kennex racquets.

Q. Hedging your bets?

LUKE SMITH: That's right.

Q. The route you've taken by college to get here, is it a journey that you've
recommend, for example, to other Australians?

LUKE SMITH: Sure. It also depends how physically developed you are. I mean, for me,
when I was 17, I was very undeveloped. You know, all I wanted to do -- I knew I wanted to
play tennis, I just wasn't ready for it. I knew that; I wasn't going to try to force
myself. I never heard of college tennis, didn't know what it was till I got a phone call
from the coach at UNLV. Sounded good to me. Three hours of training a day, weights,
running, good facilities, play matches every weekend. I mean, it worked out great, you
know. It's exactly what I needed. School's not real tough, doesn't totally consume what
you do. It was great. I definitely recommend it (Phone ringing).

Q. It's probably the agent? That was Ivan Bloomberg?

LUKE SMITH: Where was I (laughter)? I'll definitely go back and recommend it to people
like my brother, for instance, 15, coming up, he'll probably do the same thing.

Q. Your family has a pretty strong tennis background. Has that really influenced you?

LUKE SMITH: Yes. I mean, I've always been involved in tennis. I played some other
sports, but tennis has always been it. My dad's a coach. My mom was a top state player in
south Australia. My father coached, Don Fitzgerald, Darren Cahill, Roger Rasheed. I've
always seen those guys out on the court. Ever since I was about this big, I was always out
on the court. Whether I was playing, I was always fooling around. I mean, since I was
about 12, I think I made up my mind I was going to be a professional tennis player. It's
kind of the only thing I've ever had my mind set on.

Q. What do you take out of today then? Is it a rude awakening or were you expecting it
to be pretty tough?

LUKE SMITH: I was expecting it to be about this tough. But I thought if I could play --
normally I kind of rely on my serve about 80 percent. Today, I don't know what I served,
but I'm sure it wasn't too flush. You know, he's much more consistent. He hits the ball
really hard consistently. I just realized, you know, I've got to kind of have more of an
all-around game. I kind of rely on my serve and volley, chip, charge too much. If my
volleys are a bit shaky, that kind of ruins my whole game plan. I don't really like to
stay back on the baseline. The good thing is I've got a lot of things I can work on. I've
had some success at my first ATP event. There's a lot I can work on.

Q. So what would be a goal this year, say, over the next 12 months? Have you set
yourself a long-term goal?

LUKE SMITH: I'd like to be inside the top 200 within the year, you know. I mean, I
think if I play well, I think it's a realistic goal. Any higher would be great. That's a
realistic goal.

Q. Do you know how much you've won?

LUKE SMITH: How much money?

Q. Yes.

LUKE SMITH: Yes (laughter). I think it was 13 grand. But after tax, we get taxed 30
percent, so it's $9,100.

Q. Not that you're counting?

LUKE SMITH: Not that I'm counting, wouldn't be doing that (laughter). I kind of count
every cent I get, because I don't have much of it.

Q. Show me the money.

LUKE SMITH: I have a shirt saying that. Should have worn it.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT