U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2001
Bubba Dickerson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BUBBA DICKERSON:  Thank you. 

BUBBA DICKERSON:  It feels great.  The opportunity to go to the Masters, just that's a great thing. 

BUBBA DICKERSON:  16 was a little more surprising.  It was sitting down.  But I got a bad break there yesterday and I guess it just rewarded me for the break I got yesterday there.  And I got a good break there today.  Hit the pin and went in the hole.  It was just a good time for that to happen. 

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I wasn't hitting it very well today.  I was swinging poorly at it on the range.  I kept hitting fairways.  That was one thing I kept doing.  I wasn't hitting it very well off the tee, but I was driving it in the rough a lot.  And he was making a lot of good pars.  And I felt like I should have been doing better in the match.  But his putting and chipping was really good.  And then, finally, I started to hit the ball a little bit better on the back, a couple better drives.  And it just turned around for me at the right time. 


Q.  What did you hit on 17, and what were you thinking on that?  Were you actually thinking about making it, or were you just trying to get it close?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I actually told my caddy before I hit it that I was going to make it.  I was pretty confident on that.  I hadn't made a putt all day.  Well, actually I made one on 10, but I hadn't made a real long one all day.  And I told my caddy I was going to make it before I hit it.  And it just so happened it went in.

Q.  How far was that?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I would say 35, 40 feet. 

Q.  Apparently, obviously, there was some bad blood between you guys down the stretch.  It started at 11.  What happened there?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Yeah.  I just forgot to concede a putt to him on 11.  And I was so in shock that he missed his par putt, because he ain't missed anything the whole day, I just walked off.  And then they called me back over because I forgot to concede the little tap in.  And then I guess I made him mad there, and he didn't give me a putt that was on the lip on the next hole, so I said, well, if he wants to play that game, I can putt them out if he can.

Q.  He said that you said after the official came over that the putt wasn't good, not that you didn't forget it.

BUBBA DICKERSON:  No.  He asked me if I conceded the putt, and I said no.  Just because, you know, if he picks up the ball before I concede it, then I win the hole.  And I was just making sure he didn't pick it up because I forgot to concede it.  But then he said, Well, is the putt good?  And I said, Yeah, it's good.  I concede the putt now. 

Q.  You started August by winning the Western Amateur, what has that done, that victory there?  Obviously, it's carrying you on through.  Can you talk about winning there a little bit?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I finally broke through and won there and it really gave me a lot of confidence.  I've been hitting the ball pretty good all summer.  Just not winning and not making putts.  And I changed putters, and I think that really helped me a lot. 

Q.  You changed putters there or here?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Actually changed putters midway through the summer. 

Q.  So you had the putter you changed to for the Western Am?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Yeah, it's the same putter.

Q.  Who did you beat there in the Finals 6 and 4?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Trip Kuehne.

Q.  How much was The Masters on your mind today?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Couple times.  15 tee it was in my mind a lot when I was telling myself to tighten up or you're about to get beat.  And that was about the only time I remember thinking about it. 

Q.  How about now?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Now?  Not even thinking about it really.  I'm just thinking about getting some food and relaxing. 

Q.  You were close last year to the Masters, you were 37 holes with D.J.

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Yeah.

Q.  Do you draw on that experience at all?  Do you think about that?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I think that we learn from your mistakes, and I definitely made a mistake last year.  I rushed that extra hole and I didn't play it very smart.  And that's what I was trying to do on 18 tee was just take my time and play it real smart.  Hit a better shot. 

Q.  How will you approach your match tomorrow compared to how you approached your final last year?  Do you change anything?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I'm just going to try to go play my own game, maybe give him a putt a foot away, maybe. 

Q.  What was your lie like behind the green on 18?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  It was pretty good.  It was sitting up pretty good.  It actually jumped out a little bit more than I expected, but the lie and the chip was not that difficult. 

Q.  How far was the chip on 16?  I saw you were kind 
of --

BUBBA DICKERSON:  16 it was probably only 12 feet because I was just passed the pin.

Q.  How bad was that lie though?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  It was sitting down pretty bad.  Like I say, I got a bad lie yesterday there too.  And today and yesterday I hit pretty good shots.

Q.  What did you hit there?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Actually, I hit a wedge in there.  I had 160 to the hole and hit wedge.  Leave it short. 

Q.  What did you think on 12 where Brian flew the green, and did you think you had a pretty good shot at winning that hole?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  You know the funny thing is, I was sitting there thinking, I said, you know, the wind is into him, he's far enough back there that he could actually hit a good shot here.  And when he hit it, I said this might go in the hole, really.  And I knew he hit a good shot when he hit it. 

Q.  Go back to 11 for a minute.  Had you made par at 11?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Yes.  No, no, I made bogey.

Q.  You had made bogey?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  We both bogeyed.

Q.  So how long was his par put that he missed?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  8, 10 feet.

Q.  And he had gone past the hole or  --

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I think he missed it right, couple, a foot.

Q.  And that was the putt after you had walked off the green?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I walked off.  I forgot to concede it to him.  I just wasn't thinking about it.

Q.  And that's the putt the USGA official said, Did you concede that put?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Did you concede that put and I said no, I haven't conceded it yet and then he said, Well, are you conceding it?  And I said, Yeah, I'll concede it to him as long as he didn't make an infraction in the rules.

Q.  So it was to halve the hole?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Yeah.

Q.  By that point he had already putted it?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  No.  He was still over there asking if it was good.

Q.  Because he went ahead and putted it, right?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  No, he didn't put it.  He ended up picking it up after he asked the official if I conceded it or what. 

Q.  Oh.  So really it was a miscommunication  --

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Yeah.

Q.  -- more than anything.

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I think so. 

Q.  He was getting up-and-down quite a bit.  I think on 10, 11, or 9 he had a bad -- kind of a bumpy chip.  And I think on 10 he had a side hill lie.  Does that wear on you, and how do you keep from saying, Oh, my God, this guy just keeps doing this to me?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  It definitely wears on you.  I felt like I was out playing him today.  But he was driving it in the rough on the front nine, he was hitting some great shots out of the rough.  I actually asked one of the officials if they mowed the rough last night for him or something because he was getting some pretty good lies.  And eventually it will catch up to you, usually.

Q.  So I guess you figure the chip on 16 was your kind of redemption?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  It was my redemption, 16 and 17, exactly.

Q.  What do you know about Hamilton?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I know he was in the Sweet 16 in the Western Am.  I don't know how far he went or who beat him.  And I know that he did well at the Northeast.  So I know he's a pretty good player. 

Q.  Will you be going to the baseball games now you're going to the Masters?  Are you going back to Gainesville?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I'm pretty positive I'm going back to Gainesville now.  I'll turn pro next summer after The Masters and hopefully after the Open. 

Q.  Have you gone to a baseball game every day this week?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Yes, I have.

Q.  Tuesday?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  They came in town Tuesday.

Q.  You going again tonight?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I'll be there.

Q.  It's kind of therapeutic or what?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I don't know.  Call it superstition, I don't know.

Q.  Are you a big baseball fan?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  A little bit.  If I'm rooting for a baseball team, it's the baseball. 

Q.  Bubba, you're pretty confident in your game.  I mean, in yourself or that the swagger, the confidence, or cocky, which  -- how do you feel about your game and your abilities?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I feel pretty confident in myself, yeah. 

Q.  Just a couple of days ago you had to play your own teammate.  After the match did he give you any pointers or anything leading up to this point?  Did he talk to you afterwards?  And what did he say?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I think he was a little upset with himself.  He missed -- he actually missed the putt on 7.  Actually, I offered it to him.  I said, good/good mine and yours and he said, No, let's putt them.  And I made mine and he missed his.  He was actually inside of me.  And I think from then on he was a little upset with himself and then he missed another little one on 15.  So but he didn't offer me any advice.  I think he was more hoping his countryman won, he was caddying for him. 

Q.  They had a big week this week and you have two of them on your team.  Those guys seem to be pretty good players.  You have two Colombians on your golf team?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Yeah, I do.

Q.  Is that something Florida has done actively to go down there and recruit them?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  They produce some pretty good players, they actually do.  And coach, he has to do what he's got to do.  If he has to go foreign to find good players, he's got to do it.

Q.  Any good phone calls from anybody?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Actually that was the first person I talked to when I won my match.  I think he already knew because his wife works for the PGA Tour media, she knows a lot of media people.  I think they already told her that I won.  But he gave me a lot of congratulations. 

Q.  Where is Hilliard, Florida?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  North of Jacksonville. 

Q.  Okay. 

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Thank you.  Appreciate it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT