U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 24, 2001
Bubba Dickerson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BUBBA DICKERSON:  Thank you. 

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Yeah, I was real happy.  I hit a lot of fairways.  I had three birdies through 15 holes.  I made my first bogey on 16.  I just played real solid.  Didn't make a lot of putts, but I didn't really have to make a lot of putts.  I made everything that I needed to make.  And I just played real well. 

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I was thinking about the Braves winning that game.  I was out at the game and just watching them play baseball.  I watched them for the last three nights and it's kind of kept me loose and relaxed. 


Q.  What were the pivotal holes for you during the day?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  He 3-putted 7.  We were both -- he about a 10 foot birdie, he was about 20 feet and he ran it a little too far by and missed the downhiller.  And then I would say 17 was the biggest pivotal hole.  He snap hooked it off the tee in the lake after he just got even with me on 16.  And that was the big hole. 

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Well, I know that the greens are going to be fast and the rough is going to be deep and you just have to keep hitting fairways and greens and you'll be successful in USGA events. 

Q.  What do you know of your opponent?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I know he goes to Arizona State.  That's about it.

Q.  So is it easier to prepare for somebody that you know or somebody that you don't know?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  I think it's easier to play somebody that you don't know because you're not an acquaintance or anything.  So you don't have no feelings for the person.  Like when I was playing Camilo Villegas, my teammate, it was hard to keep from talking to him and joking around with him because I wanted to beat him.  And I'm sure he wanted to beat me.  But he is my teammate and had to just forget about that at the time.  And it's a guy that I have no, no relationship with, I just try to beat him. 

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Just try to keep doing what I'm doing.  I think I'll be fine tomorrow if I just play the way I did today. 

Q.  You are you confident going in, you played pretty well this summer.  Do you think that your confidence is growing as you go a little further?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Yeah.  Any time you're winning, confidence is getting higher and higher.  And I feel good about my game right now and I've got a positive attitude and I think I'll have fun tomorrow. 

Q.  Did winning the Western, at least part of it, it's match play, you had to win four matches in two days.  Does that help you in this tournament?

BUBBA DICKERSON:  Yeah, but I think the thing that helped me the most there was winning the stroke play part of it.  Because I've been struggling, I've been finishing around top 20, top 10 but I haven't been winning any stroke play events.  And because that was 72 holes of stroke play, and I won that portion of it, as well as winning the match play part of it, I think that gave me more confidence than anything there. 

BUBBA DICKERSON:  No problem.  Appreciate it. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT