AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2019
Celine Boutier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did it feel out there?  
CELINE BOUTIER: Pretty nice.  I feel like yesterday I also played pretty well, but I made a few too many mistakes and today it felt pretty nice to have a lot of birdie opportunities and no bogeys today, so that's always nice.   
 Q.  How have you found the tournament overall this week?  
CELINE BOUTIER: I really like the course.  It's amazing to play it and in amazing shape, and the weather is pretty good, too.  So I'm very much enjoying it.   
 Q.  Going into the weekend, what do you think you have to do to keep atop the leaderboard?  
CELINE BOUTIER: I think I have to keep playing the way I've been playing.  Just try to have good looks for birdies on greens.   
 Q.  In terms of the Solheim Cup, is that on your radar?  
CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, it was one of my goals to be part of the team, but I try not to think too much about it because it kind of stresses me out a little.  So I just try to do my best and then hopefully that's enough to make the team.   
 Q.  And if you do make the team, what would it feel like to be part of the team?  
CELINE BOUTIER: I think it would be something very special.  I've played the junior Solheim Cup, so I had the chance to like watch it, and even just watching it, my nerves went crazy, so I can't imagine actually playing it.  But it would be an amazing experience.   
 Q.  What do you feel like really came together for you today?  
CELINE BOUTIER: It was a very good day, a very good game all around from driver to putter.  I felt like I had a lot of birdie putts throughout the round, and I didn't make a lot of mistakes, and 18 was a bonus.   
 Q.  You played in the final group at the women's U.S. Open.  What do you feel like you learned from that experience that can help you here this week?  
CELINE BOUTIER: Just having to experience that, is always very helpful.  It was my first time, so you learn how to handle yourself in those situations, how to handle the pressure and pretty much manage yourself emotionally throughout the round, so hopefully that will help me this week.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts here on the course at Woburn?  
CELINE BOUTIER: I was kind of -- I knew what I was going to get here because a lot of players told me, you know, it's not a links and whatever.  But I honestly just love the course.  I think it's in amazing shape and honestly I just enjoy playing it and the weather has been great so far.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT