U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 2019
Celine Boutier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did the round feel?  You had an extraordinary round.  Was everything just clicking for you?  Maybe putting, ball striking?
CELINE BOUTIER: Honestly, everything was going well.  I feel like I was hitting the ball pretty good and pretty straight.  Then when I was missing a couple of greens, my short game was there to save me.  I feel like all around, my game was pretty solid.
Q. As you were making a run up the leaderboard, were you aware?  Or do you try not to pay attention to it?
CELINE BOUTIER: I try not to pay attention because it gets me really stressed out.  It was a little bit difficult at the beginning, but then as the round went on, I kind of focused more on myself and my game.
Q. Your former Duke teammate and friend is tied at the top of the board with you.  What do you think tomorrow will be like, playing alongside her?
CELINE BOUTIER: I'm not sure.  I mean, I've played with her before in a tournament round, never in the final pairing of a Major.  So I don't know how it's going to be.  I think she's going to be very focused, and so am I.  So I don't really expect anything less.
Q. So Duke's having quite a run, winning the National Championship last week and then three players tearing it up out here.  Just what was your best experience at Duke?  Obviously, winning a national title, but what was it about Duke that shaped you and got you here, in part?
CELINE BOUTIER: I think just being able to practice, and kind of be around great players really motivates you to work harder and kind of, you know, try to compete with them a little bit.  Even though you're on the same team, you kind of push each other.  I think that's what also you can see a lot of Dukies kind of -- I feel like it just encourages people, like me at least.  I don't know about other people, but when I see Duke players playing well, I kind of want to play well too.
Q. Were you able to watch the National Championship at all?
CELINE BOUTIER: I did watch some parts of it, but I was playing a tournament at the same time, so it wasn't really easy to match the times.
Q. How much will winning earlier this year help you tomorrow, do you think?
CELINE BOUTIER: I think it's always good to have an experience of being in contention, being in the last pairing on the last round, and being able to win.  On Tour, it's always helpful, so hopefully -- I'm not sure exactly, but I think for my confidence, it helped me quite a bit.  Hopefully, for tomorrow, it will be the same.
Q. Is there any difference when you're playing a round with someone you're friends with as opposed to someone you don't know as well, or does it not really matter who you're playing with?
CELINE BOUTIER: I don't really mind either way.  But I think when I played with her before, she was very focused and kind of in her own bubble.  So I don't think for her it matters as much.  For me, I enjoy playing with her.  But, I mean, I don't think there's going to be a lot of interaction.  I'm not sure.
The last time I played with her in a competitive round, we didn't interact very much.  She didn't have a very good day, and I didn't either.  So maybe that's why, but we'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT