SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
October 2, 2020
Celine Boutier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Celine, a bogey-free round out there today.  How comfortable are you feeling coming off the course?
CELINE BOUTIER:   Yeah, extremely happy with the way I played and the way I scored particularly today.  I didn't really make any mistakes and I had a lot of birdie opportunities, so I thought that was a great way to get going for the weekend.
Q. How important is it to stay consistent out here at Seaview?
CELINE BOUTIER:   Oh, very important.  I feel like this course there is no hole that you can really relax, because the rough is so thick that if you're in it you cannot (indiscernible) for the second shot, so you have to really pay attention.
On then on the second shot, because the greens are so tricky, you have to be very smart about where you place your ball and I feel like you have to be on all the time.
So consistency is key on this course.
Q. A lot of birdies on the card today.  What do you think was going so well for you?
CELINE BOUTIER:   I think my long game was really solid, and like I said, I gave myself a lot of opportunities.  I didn't make all of them, but I felt like I had a bunch.  So definitely ready to be able to know that I can go low on this course.
Q. This tournament usually in the beginning of summer; now in September.  How did you plan on attacking this course knowing all the changes that it's gone through?
CELINE BOUTIER:   Yeah, wasn't really sure what to expect because I've only played this tournament once and was in the summer.  It's definitely a lot softer than in the summer.  The past two days haven't been that windy, so that was a little bit of a surprise.
But I feel like overall the course is playing a little bit longer also because it's not really getting that much roll, but definitely different than the years previous.
Q. When you're able to feel it clicking, feel all parts of your game clicking out there, how much more confident are you out there on the course?
CELINE BOUTIER:   A lot more stress-free.  Just so nice to be, you know, able to hit from the fairway and just putt for birdies a lot of times.
So I just cannot complain with the way I played today.
Q. What is there even to work on for the rest of the weekend and what's ahead of you?
CELINE BOUTIER:   I think I definitely missed a couple putts here and there.  You cannot make all of them.  But I feel like if I can stay the same consistency with my long game and just make a couple more putts, I'll be pretty satisfied.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT