U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 30, 2019
Celine Boutier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Celine Boutier from Duke University.  She shot 4 under today.
Q. Celine, great playing today.  With the four birdies, were you in a position where you maybe left a few out there, or was it really a good day and you got the most out of it?
CELINE BOUTIER: I think I did pretty well on the back.  I did leave a couple of birdies in the front.  But, I mean, it was just hard to get it close on some of the pin positions.  I'm just happy with my round.
Q. Best part of your game?  Was it driving the ball?  Was it ball striking, putting?  What was it?
CELINE BOUTIER: I think my long game in general.  I think I only missed one fairway, so that helped a lot.  And then I hit a lot of greens, so that was very helpful.  I think, yeah, my long game was definitely my strength today.
Q. So 4 under on the first day of the Open.  Got to be something that you're really happy about and proud of, I'm sure.
CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, very happy.  Haven't really had a very good record in Majors.  So I'm very happy in my round.  Obviously, I know it's a long tournament and three more rounds to go.  So just trying to focus on the present and take it round by round.
Q. Was it an advantage today to go out early with how hot it's getting this afternoon?  Do you feel like it was an advantage for you to be out early today?
CELINE BOUTIER: I think so.  But then, at the same time, I feel like it's not that much warmer than when I started.  So I don't think it was that much different.  I think maybe the greens are going to be a little harder because they're going to be more firm.  But except for that, I think temperature-wise, it's pretty much the same.
Q. How about the wind?  Some people said it's helped them, it's hurt them.  How did it do for you today?
CELINE BOUTIER: I think for me, it was pretty helpful because I feel like I get more focused when it's harder.  So I managed to be focused a round and hit some really good shots.  So I think for me, it was helping.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT