BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 22, 2019
Celine Boutier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So not the way you wanted to end your round, but still playing incredibly well; 10-under.  How did you feel coming off the golf course?
CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, I don't feel great right now.  I just feel like -- I just like struggled to make some birdies today.  I feel like my long game was not as good as yesterday at the end.  I just didn't make that many putts.  And then, yeah, just not a good finish.
I thought it was pretty average day.
Q. Was it weather conditions?  The day started out so cold and it's nice and hot right now.  Anything you thought was a change to your round or just not your day?
CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, no, I don't think the weather -- I mean, it wasn't very windy so it was playing -- I thought it was playing pretty easy.  Like the par-5s were much shorter, but I just didn't take advantage of those very well.
So I think just my game wasn't very good overall.
Q. If your scorecard is correct you had an eagle on 15.
CELINE BOUTIER: Yes.
Q. So the Aon Risk Reward Hole this week.
CELINE BOUTIER: It is?
Q. Yeah, so good there.  Tell me about the eagle there.  It was moved up today?
CELINE BOUTIER: No, I was just like super lucky because I pushed a driver and hit the cart path, so I ended up hitting my drive like 340 and had 5-iron in.  Hit it in the bunker and holed out from there.
Q. That's some risk/reward right there.  Never know.
CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah.
Q. Still at 10-under, two strokes off the lead.  You're still playing well, still right in this.  What do you work on going into the weekend?
CELINE BOUTIER: I think I'm going to work on my driving and wedges.  Hopefully tomorrow be better and have more birdie opportunities.
Q. Last question:  Yu Liu is up at the top of the leaderboard tied for first right now.  I know you played together at Duke on the National Championship team.  What's it like to see another Dukie up there on the leaderboard with you?
CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, it's awesome.  She's one of my closest friends out here.  We played on Symetra Tour two years ago together, we graduated together, and then last year we had a pretty good rookie year on the LPGA Tour together.
It's awesome to be playing well like both of us.  I don't think I could have hoped for better for the both of us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT