BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 21, 2019
Celine Boutier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bank of Hope Founders Cup round one solo leader with a birdie on the last, Celine Boutier.  What was the key to your 8-under par round today?
CELINE BOUTIER: I think overall my game was really solid today.  I didn't miss that many greens; maybe I missed two greens.  So I had a lot of birdie opportunities and I was able to make a lot putts.
I think that was the key to the round today.
Q. You became a Rolex first-time winner at the Vic Open this year.  How has that win changed your outlook and your mentality this season?
CELINE BOUTIER: It's definitely made me more confident in my game, my ability to win out there.  I feel like I was kind of lacking that confidence last year.  Being able to get that first win on the first tournament was definitely helpful with that.
I feel like also my game has been getting better and better, so I'm just super happy to be able to start the tournament this way.
Q. You had an exciting announcement this week.  Tell us about your new hat logo there.
CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, I am starting to be sponsored by PXG starting this week.  It's super exciting because I've been playing their clubs a full year now.  I've have like 13 clubs from PXG, so just super excited to be able to be sponsored by them.
Q. This week with the LPGA Founders here we relaunched a new brand, DriveOn.  Why do you drive on, Celine?
CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, I think it's something that really talks to me because I was never super talented at anything, especially not golf.  I feel like when I started a lot of people were kind of saying that I would never get there because I was too robotic, that I didn't really have the level, I wasn't good enough.
I feel like it's definitely something that I could relate to.  I just I would say like to anyone who's experiencing it, just focus on you want to achieve and just work hard and the rest will take care of itself.
Q. This is your second time playing the Bank of Hope Founders Cup.  How special is it to see the Founders on 18 green?
CELINE BOUTIER: It's awesome.  I feel like I'm always looking for -- you know, traditions is something I really enjoy.  I feel like this tournament especially is really good way to remember what the Founders have done for us and why we're able to do the job we have and just not take it for granted.
Q. What kind of confidence comes from that victory?
CELINE BOUTIER: It's just honestly not much, but just being able to -- just being aware that you can win on tour.  That's I think the main difference I think between last year and like this year after my win.
Because I knew that last year I could do top 10, I could get up there, but I just wasn't really convinced that I had the level to win.  So the fact that I was able to do that kind of really allowed me to have more confidence in myself.
I'm very humble so I don't like to over show like confidence.  I'm like always -- I need to see results first.  I feel like that really helped me with that.
Q. Does your coach work on that with you, trying to make you be less humble?
CELINE BOUTIER: No.  Well, he's definitely tried to remind me that I need to be more confident on the course, because unless you think that you can do it you're not going to do it.
It's something I've had to overcome, and I'm still very cautious.  I still try and find excuses when I can.  It's something I have to improve on still.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT