U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2014
Celine Boutier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How was it going today?CELINE BOUTIER: I feel like my game was better than yesterday.  I hit a lot more fairways and my irons were really good.  So I feel like I hit a lot more greens and I just had two doubles, except for that, just I played 2-over for the day and I think that's pretty good.
Q. Getting the double bogey on the first hole, was that a tough way to start?CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, it was kind of hard to begin with, because my third shot was a good one, so it's just, it just didn't stop on the green.  So then my fourth shot was kind of hard.  It's always hard to begin with a double bogey.
Q. How would you evaluate this whole experience this week?CELINE BOUTIER: Well, it's always a great way to learn, because I think it's probably one of the toughest courses I've ever played.  So it's hard to handle the frustration first, because obviously I'm not going to shoot 5-under on these types of courses, but it's always great to play and I know what I have to work on in the future for the next U.S. Opens, hopefully.
Q. What in particular have you learned about your game based on this experience?  And do you feel there are things that you need to work on or was it just the course that sort of took things away from you?CELINE BOUTIER: I feel like my game was pretty good in general, but the course is just so hard that you -- even if your shots are good, you're going to make a mistake because of the way you played it.  So I feel like I have to learn more shots, because especially the short game shots, because I feel like I don't really have that many shots in my bag, so I feel like if I learn to play different approaches, I'm going to be better.
Q. This is a rare course in the way you play it and the way it plays, do you think that will help you when you play more conventional golf courses?CELINE BOUTIER: Definitely I think they will seem a lot easier and if you play good on this type of course, you can play well anywhere.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT