U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2014
Celine Boutier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What were the difficulties you encountered today that seemed to give you trouble?CELINE BOUTIER: I think I maybe struggled today with getting out of the waste areas.  So I hit a couple of drives that I missed and it was hard for me to reach the greens and just try to make it up for it.  So those were kind of my struggles today. And I think I had two doubles, so, yeah, that was it.
Q. Was it a matter of the course, itself, being a little difficult with the heat, what do you think caused the problems?CELINE BOUTIER: I think it's more the course and, you know, you have to make it on the fairway, because otherwise the hole is getting so much more difficult.  And I think I felt a little bit of pressure out of the tee and I think that explains why I had much more trouble than usually.
Q. Besides your practice, had you been on this course or did you know much about No. 2 before this week?CELINE BOUTIER: No, I mean, it was my first time on Monday, so I haven't played it before.
Q. What were your impressions when you got here?  What did you think of the course?CELINE BOUTIER: I got to watch a little bit of the Men's Open before, so I knew what -- I expected a little that kind of course.  But I feel like playing it is so much different.  And I feel like it's harder around the greens.
Q. Let me ask you about the greens in particular, how did they play today and how difficult was that for you to get used to?CELINE BOUTIER: I think they were a little firmer than what we played before during the practice rounds. The thing I had to deal with more was the speed, because of the hills and sometimes you have to putt it outside of the greens.  And getting those speeds right was very difficult for me today.
Q. How did you end up with Darick on your bag?CELINE BOUTIER: How did I know of him?  I wanted a local caddie, because I wanted someone who knew the course really well.  So I asked our assistant coach and she got in touch with him, I don't know how exactly, but he's been caddying for different players before.
Q. Was he much of a help today?CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, definitely.  Especially, you know, on the lines off the tees and the lines on the greens, it's really helpful to have him there.
Q. Can you talk about the experience of playing in the U.S. Open?  What it was like for you today?CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, it's been really exciting and I had, I think, a little bit of stress on the first couple holes, but then I got -- I think I got into the competition and the game. And I think it went pretty well.  It's a tough course, so I'm not really happy with what I scored, but I'm pretty happy with how I handled it.
Q. How was the support for you today?CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, I mean, it was really nice to feel the support.  Both of my coaches are here.  Our physical trainer is here.  I've seen a couple of Duke fans.  So it's really nice to have them here for my first Open.
Q. It's going to be difficult to get above the cut line, given that you're minus 8 or plus 8, what's your strategy tomorrow, what do you try to do to maybe close that gap and maybe get yourself in position to play on the weekend?CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, I mean, obviously, the cut is, I think, around plus 3 or something like that.  So I think if I shoot around even par or a little lower I can have a chance. So tomorrow I'm just going to try to hit as many fairways as possible.  Because I feel like my irons are going pretty well.  So if I just put the ball in play on the fairway, I'm going to make my life so much easier.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT