LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
August 2, 2020
Celine Boutier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just finished second at the LPGA Drive On Championship.  I know it's not the finish you would've wanted, but you've got to feel proud of the way you handled yourself on quite a crazy weather gay.  What are your thoughts?
CELINE BOUTIER:   Yeah, it's hard right now to just see the positive right away, but I definitely had, you know, a little bit of trouble in the beginning.  I just couldn't get my round going, and especially with the tough conditions.  I manage so save some pars here and there, and then the back nine was much better.
So I'm definitely happy with the way I overcame my struggles in the front.  And then obviously I missed some putts on the back.  Overall I feel like my round was pretty good.
Q. It was very back and forth, but it came down to ultimately you and Danielle on the back nine.  At one point she had a two-stroke lead, then you came back thanks to some birdies and bogeys from Danielle.  What were your thoughts on the back nine, particularly as the weather shifted?  It got beautiful out and really came down the two of you.  It became like a match play battle.
CELINE BOUTIER:   Yeah, she was ahead the whole front, and then I just try to focus on my game, because at that point I hadn't played that well.  So I just tried to hit fairways, hit greens, give myself opportunities, and then I managed to make a couple of birdies.
So I obviously I didn't know how the rest of the field was playing and I knew there was a possibility that someone was going low.  But, yeah, I knew that between me and Danielle it was pretty tight, especially in the last like four, five holes.
Q. So you didn't know what the scores were?  You weren't checking your phone or anything?
CELINE BOUTIER:   No.  I mean, in general I'm not really a leaderboard watcher or anything.  And then just the fact that I have to like pull out my phone I think is a little bit strange in the middle of the round.  I just try to focus my own game.  I had a lot to manage anyway, so...
Q. So on 18 you put your approach in tight.  What were you chatting with your caddie, with Fred, as you were over your approach shot?
CELINE BOUTIER:   Just trying to get the distance, the yardage right, and then trying to see where I wanted to land.  Obviously because of the rain the greens were a lot softer, so I was able to hit it closer to the pin.  I knew it was going to stay there, so that was kind of helpful in that sense.
But nothing really special.
Q. What was your distance out and what club did you use there?
CELINE BOUTIER:   I had 86 meters, and then I hot my 50 degrees wedge.
Q. And then unfortunately didn't make the putt on 18, but what positives do you take out of this now?  First event back after nearly five months off and you finished second with the chance to take the win.
CELINE BOUTIER:   I mean, any time you have the opportunity to play for the win it's always positive.  Then especially after the break you don't really know where you stand, where the other player stands, so it's definitely good to have top two.
Then it's just hopefully I just learn from this and take it for experience for the next time I get the chance to play for the win.
Q. When you get to play for the win and come back next year and play the Solheim Cup.  You basically just had nine holes of match play.  What are you most looking forward to next year when we come back for the Solheim Cup?  You went 4 and 0 for Europe last year, so you're likely going to be one of the leaders of that team.
CELINE BOUTIER:   I feel like team events are my favorite.  Even in amateur golf I was playing with the French National Team, and those were the events that I was looking forward to the most.  I'm super excited and looking forward to the Solheim Cup next year.
If I can be a part of the team would be obviously even better.  But, I mean, I definitely think this match play golf is very different and it's kind of fun.
But the next time we play here, going to be a lot more spectators so different atmosphere for sure.
Q. Last question:  When we started this morning it was cold and wet, very rainy.  Rained on and off all day.  Now under absolutely perfect conditions.
What was the whole 18 holes like?  I mean, you had rain gear, umbrellas out, and now you're down to your shorts.
CELINE BOUTIER:   Yeah, it's crazy.  This morning when I woke up and checked the weather I was pretty positive we were not going to be seeing any rain because it was only 20% chance.  So I didn't think it was going to rain, but I took the rain gear in case, and I got here it was just pouring down.
Once it was pouring down I was like, We're never going to see the sun.  Thankfully it was a little bit windy so the clouds just moved away and it's just the most beautiful day right now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT