SOLHEIM CUP
September 15, 2019
Celine Boutier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Celine, what a fantastic performance. Can you sum up how you're feeling securing that point for Team Europe?  
CELINE BOUTIER: It's pretty unbelievable. I'm so happy to be able to bring another point to the team and very excited about the round today. I feel like we both played pretty well and very steady. So it was definitely good.   
 Q.  As a rookie for this team, you seem to have taken it all in stride. Can you sum up how special the whole week has been?  
CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, it's very hard to describe. I feel like I've never really experienced something like that. But it's something you have to really embrace and kind of I feel like once -- I guess it's different because the team -- the crowd and the team's all behind you. But when you play for something bigger than yourself, it's something very special and very hard to describe.   
 Q.  How about another hot rookie who puts up the third point for Team Europe. You go undefeated so far this week. Describe what this whole week has been like and your excellent play.  
CELINE BOUTIER: Yeah, it's unreal. I mean I would have never expected to do so well, but I had a great partner in the doubles with Georgia. So we managed to have two points.   
And then today I just tried to focus on my game. And after that me and Annie both played very well and steady all day. We just have to make birdies to win holes. And that's the kind of golf we like to play, so it was a very good round, and kind of an incredible experience, four points for the European team.   
 Q.  How do you switch from going from team play where you have someone to lean on, to go out there by yourself to try to get a point?  
CELINE BOUTIER: It's definitely a strange feeling on No. 1, when you're really by yourself. But you kind of have to also rely a little bit on your caddie. And hopefully you're like a team with him, and just try to manage to hit some fairways and greens and focus on making good shots.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT