BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 4, 2011
C. Wayne McIlwraith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'll be joined later by the winning connections of Perfect Shirl. They're still in the Winners' Circle. We're joined by Dr. C. Wayne McIlwraith. 
 Dr. McIlwraith is the on-call veterinarian for the American Association of Equine Practitioners, the AAEP. Dr. McIlwraith has some information for us both with respect to Announce who is scratched before the start of the Filly & Mare Turf and also with respect to Dynaslew, who we saw be transported back to the barn in the horse ambulance. 
 THE MODERATOR: Dr. McIlwraith, thanks again for coming to visit with us. Start either way you wish, with Announce or Dynaslew. 
 DR. C. WAYNE MCILWRAITH: Announce started acting up approaching the gate. The jockey had trouble controlling her, and she ran into the rail and sustained a mild laceration to the right hind limb. She has since been examined back at the barn, and it's a small laceration over the hock, the right hock. She'll be fine. 
 And then with Dynaslew, the veterinarians were concerned with how she looked. They've told us that she was either mildly lame or she was -- or she acted mildly lame, but it could be just fatigue. As a precaution, she was loaded onto the ambulance and taken back. We have no further information at this stage, but she walked onto the ambulance fine. 
 THE MODERATOR: I'm going to ask you one question, Dr. McIlwraith, with respect to Announce. At least on the television images, Announce's jockey Maxime Guyon appeared to be upset with the scratch, was waving his arms with disappointment. Is this a situation where the jockey's opinion is given any credence, or was it 100 percent the observation of the veterinarians? 
 DR. C. WAYNE MCILWRAITH: I wouldn't say it's 100 percent, but there's no time to discuss it. She did have a laceration, which means it wouldn't be humane or absolutely safe to start the filly. So she had to be scratched. 
 THE MODERATOR: Any other questions for Dr. McIlwraith while we have him? It appeared not. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT