BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 6, 2010
C. Wayne McIlwraith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ERIC WING: All right. Before we speak to the winners of the Breeders' Cup, Sentient Jet Breeders' Cup Sprint, we are joined once again by Dr. C. Wayne McIlwraith, the on-call veterinarian for the AAEP. I understand that Dr. McIlwraith has updates on both Rough Sailing, who was injured in the Breeders' Cup Juvenile Turf, and also Atta Boy Roy, who is apparently injured in the Breeders' Cup Sprint. Dr. McIlwraith.   
 DR. MCILWRAITH: Thanks. Yes, follow-up report on Rough Sailing is that he sustained a fracture of the humerus in the right forelimb. It's not a fracture that's repairable in an adult horse. The owner has gone ahead and requested euthanasia, and that's being done.   
 ERIC WING: And for Atta Boy Roy, who was pulled up following the conclusion of the Breeders' Cup Sprint?   
 DR. MCILWRAITH: Calvin Borel noticed that there was a little bit of sensitivity in the right forelimb. Jumped off the horse. The horse was taken back in the ambulance and has just been examined and has sustained a mild injury of the medial branch of the suspensory ligament, which is all good news.   
 The other point is that it has not had an ultrasound examination, but Dr. Northrop reports that it is very minor on clinical examination.   
 ERIC WING: Dr. McIlwraith, is it too soon whether -- to know if Atta Boy Roy's injury is career-threatening? It sounds from what you're saying, it is not life-threatening, though I don't want to put words in your mouth.   
 DR. MCILWRAITH: It's certainly not life-threatening, and it's probably not career-threatening. We'll have more information after the ultrasound examination.   
 ERIC WING: Dr. McIlwraith, in the meantime, we do have a question from upstairs in the press box. We can go ahead with that now.  
  
  Q. With Rough Sailing's injury, could you tell whether -- how it occurred, whether it was as the horse went down or when he got back up? Was there any way to tell?   
 DR. MCILWRAITH: It's a good question, and we don't know for sure, but it's not uncommon for the scenario to be a primary fracture or a fracture second -- you know, a fracture in the humerus that then leads to the horse going down. But we don't know for sure.   
 Postmortem we'll probably confirm the exact cause of the fracture and whether we can relate that back to being sustained because he went down or being the primary injury.   
 ERIC WING: Any other questions, either in the main press box or down here, for Dr. McIlwraith? Once again, Dr. McIlwraith, thank you for the update.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT