BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 6, 2010
C. Wayne McIlwraith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ERIC WING: We are joined now in the interview room by Dr. C. Wayne McIlwraith. He is the AAEP on-call veterinarian, one of two on-site today. For those members of the media, just incidentally, Dr. McIlwraith's last name is spelled M-c-I-l-w-r-a-i-t-h. Dr. McIlwraith is here with us now to give us a report on Rough Sailing, who, as you probably saw, fell going around the first turn. Dr. McIlwraith?   
 DR. MCILWRAITH: Yes, thank you. Rough Sailing fell going around the first turn, and after they caught him, they found that he was lame in the right forelimb. He has sustained an injury. It has not been localized.   
 But the initial examination, it looks as if the horse is having trouble extending the leg, so we think it's an injury up high. He's being transported back to the barn, and then will undergo further examination.   
 ERIC WING: Members of the media are welcome to ask a question.   
 I have one, Dr. McIlwraith. Could you just explain what you mean when you say the injury has not been localized.   
 DR. MCILWRAITH: Just we don't know exactly what the injury is, but the initial examination, the veterinarians report that they think it's up higher in the limb, but we don't know the specific bone or if it is a bone injury or a ligamentous injury.   
 ERIC WING: Any questions for Dr. McIlwraith either here or upstairs?   
 Do we know where they will take the horse?   
 DR. MCILWRAITH: He's being taken back to the barn area, and there is a veterinarian. As I understand it, Dr. Northrop, Foster Northrop, will look at the horse and report back to us.   
  
  Q. Just want to make sure it's not a grave injury.   
 DR. MCILWRAITH: We don't know the extent of the injury or how grave it is at this stage. All we know is that he is lame on the right forelimb.   
 Immediately after a race, it's hard to ascertain the severity of it based on the clinical science.   
 ERIC WING: Dr. McIlwraith, thank you very much for that update on Rough Sailing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT