WNBA FINALS: MONARCHS v SHOCK
September 6, 2006
John Whisenant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COACH JOHN WHISENANT:  Well, it's not nearly as much fun to be up here as it was after the last game.  I don't know where to start.   
 We were awful.  We scored 26 points in the last three quarters, two in the fourth quarter.  We got outrebounded by 16 in the second half.  They got almost half of their misses back on offensive rebounds, 48 and a half percent.  That's an unbeatable number, that alone.   
 Our defense which creates opportunities for us, only got five turnovers in the first half.  We did get a few in the second, and didn't do us much good the way we were playing.  And we obviously just weren't prepared to play.  For what reason, I don't know.  But we talked about it, we talked a good game, but we obviously were not prepared to play.  And maybe we subconsciously wanted to go back to Detroit, I don't know.  I don't think so, at least in my case.   
  
  Q.  What did you tell your team right after the game, was it forget this one and move on, or what did you tell them in the locker room?   
 COACH JOHN WHISENANT:  Told them we had a 7:00 flight in the morning, I mean, 7:00 bus to go to the airport to get to Detroit, fly all day.   
 I had yelled at them at our practice this morning.  We were this way in practice, our shootaround.  We were dead, and I warned them then that we were celebrating before the dance.  You know, we were reading clippings of the second championship.  That's very hard not to do that.  It's not what you're supposed to do.  I think all of our players understand that.  But obviously they were intense and played hard and we weren't ready to deal with that.   
  
  Q.  No team has won on the road in The Finals here, so what's your mindset going in now to a Game 5 back in Detroit?   
 COACH JOHN WHISENANT:  We don't even worry about that.  We can beat them in Detroit.  We have beaten them in Detroit.  We beat them the first game in Detroit.  We swept the season series in 2004 and 2005 with Detroit.  It just comes down to, we've got to play.   
 You know, as I said before this game, it came down to us executing our stuff better than they did their stuff, and obviously they won, easily tonight.  So when we go back there Saturday, we've got to see if we can get our alertness and intensity back and do our stuff better than they do.  And it will be harder in Detroit on their court than it should have been here on our court.  Since I've been here, we haven't lost a playoff game until tonight.  So this was my first loss here in Arco in the playoffs and it doesn't feel very good.   
  
  Q.  The second half, Kristin Haynie played at the point, Ticha played sparingly, can you talk about why you went a lot with Kristin the second half tonight?   
 COACH JOHN WHISENANT:  They were just guarding us five on four.  You know, Ticha has to make shots, has to make at least the elbow shot.  You know, the last game she got aggressive and made some of them.  Tonight she was hesitant even before she shot the shots, and I don't have an answer for that.   
 Kristin's not afraid to shoot.  Kristin has trouble guarding, is her problem.  But she'll make shots, and she's not afraid to knock one down.  I have to choose between that.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT