U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2018
Joao Sousa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








N. DJOKOVIC/J. Sousa
6-3, 6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What was the experience like?
JOAO SOUSA: Yeah, well, not the best one.  Of course, I lost.  But, yeah, the crowd was amazing.  I think it's a great stadium.  I mean, it's the biggest in the world, so it's very special for me to play out there against a great player as Novak is.
Yeah, of course it's very special.  I am not happy, of course, with my loss today.  But I think we played a good match.  Not a great match, but we played a good match.  Yeah, in the end, Novak was better than me.  That's why he won today.
Q. What wasn't working?
JOAO SOUSA: Well, physically perhaps I was not the best I would like to be.  Was very hot today out there.  In the beginning, me and Novak, we were suffering a bit.
But, yeah, I mean, no excuses.  I think he was better player today, yeah.
Q. How do you feel about Novak coming back?  You played two years ago.  Did you feel a difference?
JOAO SOUSA: I played him in Roland Garros last year, so he was playing good there.  But I didn't feel any difference.  I think he's playing good.  Perhaps he had some down in the past months, but he's playing good tennis.  He's one of the best tennis players in the world.  Of course, he's playing good tennis.  So far he won rounds here, is in quarterfinals.  I wish him the best.
Q. Novak took six minutes between the second set and the third set.  You were talking about the umpire about that.  Why do you think he took that long?  Are you happy about that?
JOAO SOUSA: Well, I'm not happy about that, but that's a rule.  He can have a toilet break.  I was asking him why he's taking so long.  There is no limit for a break, toilet break.  So I think it's a rule that it's a little bit messy.
But I was not complaining.  I was just asking, How much time he was taking?  For me it was too much between the second and third set.  But, yeah, the rule says you can have a toilet break, so he got it.
Q. Seemed to be struggling with a chest problem in.  Third set.  Had to go off court again.
JOAO SOUSA: I don't know.  I was more focused on me than on him.  But, yeah, I don't know.  I didn't see any difference between the second and third set.  He was playing good.  Yeah, he called the physio at 2-1 of the third set.  So, yeah, I mean, nothing to say about that.
Q. You don't think that's special treatment toward the bigger players?
JOAO SOUSA: No, no, I don't think.  It's just a rule.  I can use it, as well.  I don't think that he used it to get an advantage of the match.
Q. Best result was third round, played Djokovic.  Can you compare your play now, how you evaluate your improvement?
JOAO SOUSA: I play much better than that time.  Was my first time in a big stadium.  It's another experience, no?  I have more experience now.  I have played many times against great players in great courts.
But, yeah, I mean, it was very special because was the first time.  I didn't play good at all.  But Novak destroyed me.
Yeah, today I think with that experience that I have been taking the last years, I think was not an easy match for Novak.  I don't believe he says that.  I played great tennis today.  Perhaps today I didn't play not the best tennis I could play.  Also because Novak didn't let me play.
But I'm happy with this result.  I think I played after some months that I didn't play so well, come here, to do fourth round, my best result in my career of a major, I think it's great.  I'm very happy with that.
Q. Do you think in your country, tennis has more attention?
JOAO SOUSA: Well, hopefully it's like that.  I would like to believe that tennis is improving in Portugal.  I think is improving.  Of course, results like this, not only me, but my colleagues, my players from Portugal, I think it's very important that tennis is becoming a great sport in Portugal.  Of course, I'm more than happy to help that to be like that.
Q. You spoke about how well Djokovic played today.  He could play Roger Federer in the next round.  Do you think he's the favorite going into that?
JOAO SOUSA: Well, I don't know.  Every match is different.  Conditions are different.  I don't know.  I don't know how fit Roger is.  Roger has to win.  So, yeah, let's see.  Of course, I'm going to enjoy in the sofa of my house, let the best win.
Q. I think you've been playing last 10, 11 years, but this is the best result in the Grand Slam.  You have a big title at your home.  Why did it happen this year?  Do you have some secret?
JOAO SOUSA: No, no secret.  My secret is work, work hard.
Yeah, it's been a very special year for me.  As you said, I won Estoril at home.  Was very special for me.  Me and my team, we were trying to reach that big goal of winning home.  Is not easy to win home.
Yeah, we made it this year, so it was very special for me.  As I said before, after that I didn't have so good time.  I was struggling a little bit.
But, yeah, I came here, I work hard, keeping work hard, believing on my work.  Yeah, good tennis these two weeks.  I played great tennis, perhaps the best tennis of my career.
So, yeah, it's been a very special year, but also some up and downs.  Hopefully till the end of the year I can play good level, I can be able to make even better results.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT