INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 27, 2014
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Another two points for Spain.   You guys kind of had an up‑and‑down match.   You only tied three holes with pars.   Right out of the hopper you birdied No. 1 on top of Mikaela.   What were your thoughts going on out there?  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Well, I was playing good.   Mikaela, unfortunately, she hit a couple of bad shots, but she putted amazing today.   So I knew that as long as she was on the green, she was going to have a birdie chance, a very good birdie chance.   She drained a couple of long ones and that's why she was such a good player.   
I was playing good and I just thought, Just play my game, just play middle of the green and give myself a good chance at a putt, a good 2‑putt for par.   
I made a couple of birdies, so I had a lead, like you said, and then she got a couple back.   But I said, you know, Stay patient, you're playing good.   
Then I didn't want to tie the hole with a bogey here, to finish the match, but I'll take it.   It's 2 points to Spain.  
   
 Q.   Yeah, that's match play.   So you don't have a partner today.   Is it any different mindset coming out here when you're by yourself?  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, it is.   I actually talked to Azahara this morning and I said, you know, I'll miss you today.   It's been a good three days, but when you're playing as an individual you're a little bit more focused on your game.   When you're playing four‑ball, you're paying attention to your partner, making sure that if she needs you, to give her advice, to help her read a couple of lines.   So obviously your mind is a little bit more spread out.   
So today I was more on my game and just focused on what I was doing, which I like to be like that on the course.   So I like that and I played good, so I'm just happy to play good.   
   
 Q.   You started out strong.   You were never ever down in the match.   Can you talk about that?  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, Mikaela hit a great second shot on the first.   She left it for a tap in for birdie.  
Then I holed my putt for birdie to tie the hole on the 1st, so that gave me a little bit of boost.   And then a good 2‑putt for par on 2.  
3, a good birdie there.   
So then I was 2‑up after 3, so obviously that gives me confidence.   I gave myself a good chance on 4.  
A good birdie on 5, so that was 3‑up.   
So I felt good.   I had the momentum.   I had the lead right away.   So it's always work for the other player to catch up with you.   So I said, Just keep playing your game, keep playing smart/aggressive, give myself a couple of birdie looks, but always be on the smart side.   
I played well, I got the two points for Spain, so that's good.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT