RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 11, 2014
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  COLIN CALLANDER:   Tries fantastic round of golf, you must be very pleased.  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yes, I'm very pleased.   You know, I just felt really well, very good yesterday with my game, and just about everything, I felt really confident off the tee, which I think is key on these kind of courses.   
It's so important to put it on the fairway because that gave me the confidence to be more aggressive and be able to chase a couple of pins and chase some birdies.   I putted really well today especially, and coming in, finishing with three birdies is a good icing on the cake for my round and how I felt.   
I'm just very happy that I can put these rounds together and put myself in a good position for the weekend.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   You haven't had a great run in recent weeks, I know you made the cut at the U.S. Open, but is there any reason why the sudden transformation in form?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, it's been a challenging and learning experience for me this first half of the season.   You mix injuries with compensations in your swing and working on the wrong things to get back; it definitely makes it harder than it needs to be.   
You know, so I just feel very happy about being able to get back and especially be able to enjoy myself again.   My coach has definitely helped me accomplish that and everything is really coming along.   
I felt that after three good weeks of work with him before the U.S. Open that I was back in the direction that I wanted to be.   I just felt very confident.   I just felt, you know, it's just a matter of time that everything has kind of come along, and I'm going to start enjoying myself and be more confident on the golf course and trust what I'm working on and trust every shot.   
You know, I just feel very good about my game right now and I think the score shows it.  
COLIN CALLANDER:   Is this a new coach you've been working with?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yes, just started with him a month, five weeks.  
COLIN CALLANDER:     What is his name?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Jorge Parada from Spain.   
COLIN CALLANDER:     What actually have you been working on?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I was in such an undesirable situation or place, however you want to call it, that pretty much we just worked on getting the swing back, getting the positions back to   neutral and back to a position where I could just trust it and hit the shots that I wanted to hit, which are high draws, which like I say, just really worked on basics.   
We didn't try anything fancy.   We just worked on take away, backswing, release, follow through, really basic stuff.   But I needed it, and that's given me the confidence to be able to go out there and enjoy myself.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   Are you surprised it's taken so little time to click into place?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No, I'm very good (laughs).   No, honestly, after everything I've gone through, I just said, I need a little bit of hope, I just need a little bit of improvement and I know I can do it.   
I was so desperate to feel that I was improving, which, you know, for the first few months of the year, I didn't feel that way even going back.   And that just made me the happiest girl in the world and make me get up the next day and work harder and just keep getting to the place where I wanted to be.   It's been a lot of hard work but when you put itwith a good swing thought, it makes sense and it all falls together.   
   
 Q.   Could you tell us about your injury problems?   I think there were more than one?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, started with my right‑‑ my hip, my right hip was high rotated in.   That the didn't allow me to fully rotate on my backswing and make my right leg stretch, and that hurt my lower back and mid back.   
So, I mean, I'm not going to get into specifics because my doctor know it is a lot better but that's pretty much what happened and that's how it all affected my swing.  
   
 Q.   And the wrist?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No, the wrist was this week after a very adventurous trip on Sunday where no man helped me in the airport and I had to carry four pieces of luggage just on my own.   That's what happened.   Englishman are very ‑‑ not gentlemen.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   Which airport?  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Edinburgh.  
COLIN CALLANDER:   So it's Scotsmen then.   
   
 Q.   Did you ask for help?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No.   I was so pissed.   They kept coming back.   Two women tried to help me, and I said I'm not going to do that to you because they are really heavy.   But no, I mean ‑‑ it was just a joke that it happened, but yeah.   
COLIN CALLANDER:     So did you strain your wrist?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yes, I did.   But the physios just on   Monday, Tuesday, fixed it.   The physios here did a great job and I was pain‑free on Wednesday.   So I was thrilled.  
   
 Q.   Why were you flying into Edinburgh?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Well, I spent last Sunday in St. Andrews with Allianz with my sponsor.   They did a great junior event with their parents, as well.   They were there this whole week but I was just with them on Sunday and that was the reason.   I had a great time, but they cancelled my flight that night and I slept two hours, and like I said nobody would help in the airport.  
   
 Q.   It was a trip in the airport ‑‑  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No.   They cancelled my flight, so I had handbag, another bag, suitcase, golf bag.   You can visualise it.   This was Monday morning after sleeping two hours.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No, hotel airport.   Next to the zoo actually just to make it even more funny.   They put us in a hotel next to the zoo just to make it even more comical.   If we stayed with the monkeys it would have been better.   
COLIN CALLANDER:     Can we go through the birdies, please?   You started very well today.   Is that one of the keys to get around here.  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, I gave myself chances from the first hole.   I was hitting fairway, greens, fairway, greens.   I felt like I'm in a very good position and I felt like I was hitting the ball really well.   It was just going to be a matter of time that the putts were going to start dropping.   I hit a very good putt and made a good birdie on 7 and good putt for par on 8.   
COLIN CALLANDER:   What club did you hit in at 7?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   8‑iron.   
COLIN CALLANDER:     And how long was the putt?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   12 feet maybe.   And then 9 was pin‑high on the left.   That was a long putt.   Very happy I made that one‑‑  
COLIN CALLANDER:     The length?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Long, from the other side, I don't know.   I don't know.   40 feet, 30 feet.   
12, hit a good shot but just released to the back and decided to chip because it was a little bit of a downhill lie and didn't want to putt it.   I didn't want to putt negative loft on my putter and I decided to chip it in, 30 feet I guess.   Off the tee, 7‑iron.   
Then I hit a 7‑iron on 16 and probably had a 25‑footer for birdie and made that.   
17, just past the pin maybe nine, ten feet and made that.  
Then 18, hit a good bunker shot and probably had four feet and made that.   
COLIN CALLANDER:     So you made a fair number of putts out there?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yes, I did.   It was about time.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel your game is suited to links golf?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   You know, my record is not good on links course, but I think the key is that I have learned from my mistakes.   I try always to always play fancy and shape the ball against the wind, and that never worked for me.   
So I figured as long as I stayed on the fairway, which is the strong part of my game, because I have always driven the ball really well, and I was able to just hit my side draw and play with the wind and be aggressive to the pins that I could be; then I thought that I would be fine.   
Yesterday I felt really good and then I had a strong finish on 17 and 18 last night, and I just felt really confident.   I felt everything was really kind of starting to roll.  
Today I just kept it going and that's really what I've been doing this year and just trying to play my game and not try to do anything different just because obviously this course demands very good ball‑striking and you've got to place it on the right places on the green and sometimes forget about where the pin is.   
Just try to play my game and enjoy it.   It's been a long time since I have been enjoying myself on the course and that's really what I'm more pleased about from today.   
COLIN CALLANDER:     Game plan the same over the weekend, hit fairways, hit greens?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Exactly, just keep it going.   
COLIN CALLANDER:     Are you going to practise this afternoon.  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yes, I am.   
COLIN CALLANDER:     Thank you very much.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT