KIA CLASSIC
March 25, 2014
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   We're here with defending champion, Beatriz Recari, starting the Kia Classic this week.   Beatriz, coming into this tournament as defending champion, how are you feeling?   Healthy?   You feeling good entering this week?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah.   I feel a lot better.   You know, I've decided to take it day by day, and when I came here for media day right after Singapore, I wasn't sure how long it was going to take me, and unfortunately it took me a little bit longer than I thought, and all I wanted to make sure was that I was ready for this week, to be able to defend, and I didn't play last week in Phoenix, so that gave me some extra time to just take care of myself and my health and my game as well, and so you know, I feel good about this week.  
THE MODERATOR:   Perfect.   And a lot of people have been talking about the course conditions here, and recently I heard someone say it's been voted one of the Top‑25 courses in the country.   Heading out there, have you noticed a difference between last year and this year in terms of course condition.  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I definitely noticed that it's in a lot better shape.   The fairways are nice and have a really nice turf.   I remember last year was a little bit more wet in terms of there were some areas that were a little bit muddy.  
But no, I mean this week I could definitely tell the fairways were really nice, and you know, even, and fortunately the rough is not as high as last year.   That I noticed, too, but also the greens are rolling better than last year, too.   So I think, you know, definitely overall it's looking better and it's going to be a good challenge.  
   
 Q.   Now, how does this course play to the strengths in your game?  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Well, you know, it's a very‑‑ it's a course that has‑‑ you know, it's not like one of those courses that you finish the round and you look back and you can't really tell, you know, hole 13 with hole 15.   You know, each hole is different, and it has its own character.   And you know, you have to really position the ball all the time, from the tee and on to the green, you know, even though some greens are not the biggest.   You know, some greens are big and some are a little bit smaller but still, it's important to place the ball and make sure that you have most of the times uphill putt because downhill putts are really fast.  
You know, and sometimes the greens are tricky to read, but it's no surprise that it is voted one of the Top‑25 courses in the country.  
THE MODERATOR:   Well, and you just mentioned putt there.   You had a pretty memorable putt to win the tournament last year.   Can you talk a little bit about the plaque they presented you commemorating that I saw on Instagram.   You posted that yesterday; right?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yes.   It was a very nice present or gift that obviously the tournament and Kia did for me remembering last year.   It was very special, and they showed it to me when I came for media day, so it was definitely a confidence booster and brought a lot of memories, you know.   And still, you know, when I go back and I see the ball going in, you know, it gives me goose bumps every time I remember it, and to have a little plaque just to, you know.  
THE MODERATOR:   It's so special.  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   It is.   It is.   It's definitely a very nice thing they did, and you know, it's always, you know, when you play courses and you see the plaques like Fred Couples, like I played Lake Nona, and Fred Couples' second shot hole on No. 9 and you're like, oh, you know, I wish I had my own plaque, and now I have my own plaque here at Aviara.  
THE MODERATOR:   Exactly.   Well, now, every time you hit the 18th green this week, are you going to feel a little more added excitement knowing that your name's out there.  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yes.   Like I said, anything that brings you a good vibe and positive feeling is always good.  
THE MODERATOR:   Good.   So also at the end of this week the International Crown teams will be set.   Have you had a chance to look at your team's roster, and how do you feel going into that event.  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I haven't really paid attention too much.   I never really liked to pay attention to things that are out of my control, and you know, I was sure that we had a very good‑‑ or strong performance coming in, and I think if we by the end of this week we're qualified, I think we'll play really well together.  
THE MODERATOR:   Good.   And just touching on the whole International Crown, can you talk about the excitement of playing country versus country, and will that fire you up, so to speak, playing for your country.  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yes.   You know, we're so used to playing, at least back in Europe, you know, playing‑‑ every year we always have, you know, competitions that were by team, or you know, always playing for your country and always a team event.   So you know, then after when you turn pro, you kind of like leave that behind, so it's really good to go back to those memories, you know, when we played as an amateur for your country, and it's definitely going to be very special as a professional to be able to represent your country.  
THE MODERATOR:   Perfect.   Thanks, Beatriz.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT