KIA CLASSIC
March 26, 2019
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You were the first winner of this event in Carlsbad.  Talk to me about what you remember from that year.  You had another win that year.  2013 was your year.
BEATRIZ RECARI: Yeah.
Q. What do you remember about your win here?
BEATRIZ RECARI: It was definitely very sweet win for me because, you know, it seems like you get derailed a little bit with other people's expectations, right?
So I won my first event in 2010 and they always question you.  Oh, you're an LPGA player, but are you a winner?  Then I got my win and it's like, Yeah, but are you a one-time winner, right?
So for me, I remember when I saw the putt go in and then a mental realization that I had won, it was just really emotional for me, as you can see in the picture.  I was just like tearing up and crying.  It was just really emotional.
Definitely gave my a lot of confidence moving onto the rest of my season.  We're only in March, and that allowed me to -- I really believe that helped tremendously to get my third win later that year.
It's just great to come back.  Regardless, every year I come back here no matter how I'm feeling.  It just cheers me up.  It's my favorite week, one my favorites for sure.  I'm very excited to be here.
Q. That was my next question:  Do you like coming here?  Bring good memories?  Are you frustrated because you want that next win?  How is the course different from what you remember in your win?
BEATRIZ RECARI: So I haven't actually got the chance to go on the course today.  I hear it's in the best condition that it's ever been.  You know, obviously I step on this course and I have great memories, a lot of positive vibes, and reminds me a lot of my home course.  That's probably why I feel so comfortable.
And definitely I am really chasing that fourth win.  It's been six years since 2013.  You know, I'm patient, but obviously every week I step it up or tee it up I am looking for that next win.  Coming here it's definitely a plus for me because I've had good results obviously.  I won here.  Gives me that little extra positive vibe for me to say like, Okay, I can do it.  I did it here so I can do it again.
Q. Six years is a long time.  How has your game as a player changed and how have you evolved over the years just being out here?
BEATRIZ RECARI: So funny, because I feel like it's been six years but feels like 15.  Also hasn't been -- 2013 was my best year.  After that hasn't been nowhere near where I definitely expected it to evolve.  I've had some really rough years and some struggles.
Feels like I've evolved in so many levels.  I feel like I had to ask myself many questions of why am I doing it, what is my motivation, why am I still here, should I just settle and call it quits.  Hey, I had a great career.  Three wins, whatever.
But I think that these six years have helped me a lot for me to mature as a person, a human being.  I know it sounds very spiritual right now, but I feel like it's been so tough on the golf course with the results that I had to just really step it up in my inner game and mental game and keep pulling through and keep finding the motivation, that extra edge.
You know, I'm really excited with where my game is going.  I also tinkered a lot with my game because that's where it started.  The problem started with some poor technique.  I'm very excited about that.  I feel like my best years are still to come because of all that experience that I've gone through and all those years that I feel like -- I'm telling, it you feels more than double.  Six years feels like, my God.  Feels like emotionally 15 years.
So I feel like when I get in contention again I feel like it'll feel completely different, and I'm very excited about having that experience and, you know, challenging myself.
Q. Yeah.  Sounds like you had to really dig deep to bring out just the motivation and to gear up for another season.
BEATRIZ RECARI: Yeah.
Q. And possibly be disappointed and then having to do it all over again.
BEATRIZ RECARI: Exactly, yeah.
Q. Has anyone in your life been very instrumental in your career?  Who do you lean on?
BEATRIZ RECARI: Well, I really lean on my fiancee, Andreas, who caddies for me, who has been through all of this, right?  He's been through the really highs and the really lows.  Been with me every day.  Been unbelievable frustrating and very emotional and very difficult in general.
Like I said before, I had to like ask myself a lot of questions and really change my focus of like do I want to do it to prove people wrong.  That's really the motivation I realize that I had before.
I'm like, okay, no matter what happens I want to become the player that I want to become more emotionally.  I want to be able to be independent, and no matter what, I want to be able to have some composure.  I want to be able to have a different skill level in terms of values.
Like I said, that's my change, and no matter what happens, I'm happy.  But, yeah, I definitely -- it will be Andreas who has been with me every day.  It's been rough, so, you know, that's been my companion.
Q. When are you guys getting married and all that?
BEATRIZ RECARI: So we got engaged in August last year.  It's really complicated with the whole family situation.  He's from Norway and I'm from Spain and we live here.  We don't know yet.  We've been together many years.  Again, like through everything.  Feels like even longer.  We just decided we want to get married, but we don't know yet.  We're very low-key.  We don't need to have something big.  Maybe just a small ceremony even the two of us alone.  No, we don't have a date yet.
Q. It sounds like you have hope and faith that everything that you've gone through is going to culminate into something bigger, right?
BEATRIZ RECARI: Yes.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT