THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 18, 2013
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (No Microphone.)
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I didn't know what to expect coming into this week because it's such a different experience, it's such a different experience, that I could never imagine that it was going to be this amazing. 
It's been ‑‑ I don't have words.   I mean, even if you interview me in Spanish, I still wouldn't have words.   I could not have words.   I mean we have bonded as a team since Sunday, and this has been one of the most wonderful experiences of my entire career.   Being part of this team and how we bonded, this is such an individual event, but I tell you, this week was beautiful.   It was such a good team and I'm just so proud of each other.

Q.   Beating Angela Stanford, how proud do you feel right now?
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I feel really proud of myself because she's a top player, she's always up there.   And last night when we finished we were like, okay, we have 12 points, let's set a new record.   And let's just focus on winning each match.   And I did my job and I'm just really happy, I'm very happy with my game, I take a lot of positives out of this week.
I have some things I still have to work on, but I feel like I'm improving every week, which is what I want and I'm just so happy and I can't wait to celebrate.

Q.   I don't know if you're going to be working on your putting.   You putted absolutely fabulous and putted the lights out.   How do you feel about your putting?
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No, you're right.   My putting has been one of the best, if not the best weeks, that I've ever had.   So I'm very happy there.   But I always want to improve, and I always want to make some more putts.   So you can't set yourself low, you got to keep improving. 

Q.   What do you think this means to European and also Spanish golf, so many of you on the team, it must just be so fantastic to have so many Spaniards with you on the team. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, it was definitely an advantage.   We have known each other since we were nine, you know, so we definitely helped bonding the team and we played great.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT