MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 21, 2013
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   It is my pleasure to welcome in the 2013 Marathon Classic champion, Beatriz Recari.   Congratulations on your third career win.   What an awesome day of golf. 
Paula was just in here and said how fun of a competition it was all day back and forth.   Take us through your day.   You got cool down a little bit, but just take us through how you're feeling. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, well, I still can't believe it, because I was so focused for the last two rounds to just keep cool and just focus on my game.   Because like Paula said, she played amazing for two days.   It was really a competition.   It was like who was going to stick it close and who was going to make a putt.
She made a birdie on 3; I made a birdie on 4; she made a birdie on 5, i made a birdie on 6; we made birdie on 7, both of us.   I mean, it was back and forth, back and forth, so it was a lot of fun. 
Like I said, you know, she played great.   She's that good of a player.   She was in the rough, and normally you think she's not going to have a chance, and she leaves it two, three feet from the hole.
It all came down to the last putt.   So I'm just really happy.   Definitely in order to win I had to play my best game. 
MODERATOR:   You talked about the missed cut at the U.S. Open that cut the streak.   I want to say this is probably a good bounce back from that.
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I would say so. 
MODERATOR:   So you think that you redeemed yourself from the streak?   Obviously a win is what you play for every week.   Talk about what that does in terms of where you are in your game right now. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   You know, it's definitely a boost of confidence because you never like to miss a cut.   But I felt really good.   I said it two days ago:   I took a lot of positives from that week.   I didn't miss the cut because my game was poor; it was other factors that I let influence myself.
I mean, I played great on Friday, so obviously my game was fine.   It was something that happened and I learned from it.   But it's definitely very relieving to bounce back and post a good score, and to win is a bonus.
But like I said, I'm just very happy with how I played the last four days.   That's what I'm proud of.
MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Congratulations.   Most of the international players have family here and everything.   Do you? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No. 

Q.   All by yourself?
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No.   They're thinking about coming over when they can retire.   At the moment that's not going to happen.   I don't know if it will in the short term.
But my mom tries to come every now and then; my dad as well.   He likes to come to tournaments; my mom likes to come for weeks off.   So I need to have a good balance. 
All my family is a still in Spain, and I can't wait to see them next week actually.

Q.   Toledo has a great tradition of embracing the international winners here and naming the street out here after the champion.   Are you ready to step into that role now here in Toledo?
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Okay.   Normally in Spain it's like you don't name a street until that person is dead, so I don't know.   I mean, I'm a bit superstitious, so I don't know.   I'm cool with it.   If that happens, that would be an honor for sure.

Q.   Talk about the pressure you might have felt on the putt on 18. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I was definitely shaking a little bit.   I knew that I had to make it to win and avoid a playoff.   Playoff is always nerve‑wracking or you're even and it can go either way. 
In Kia I won the playoff, but really I took a couple breaths and said, Okay, just read the putt, put a good stroke, and just be calm.   It went in, so I'm happy.   I'm just really happy. 
Like I said, just all came down to the last putt.

Q.   One other putt highlight:   On 16 she's like three feet away and you've got twenty‑five feet, I don't know.   At that point, were you almost certain she was going to tie it?   If you didn't make yours she would have the short putt for birdie. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Oh, definitely.   I mean, it was a very makable putt.   I didn't see, but she was right there maybe three feet, even two and a half feet.   She hit a great shot onto the pin. 
All I wanted was to‑‑ I didn't aim to make it, but I had a great read, I felt really good about the putt, and I just stroke it and the hole got in the way.
So it was definitely a bonus to keep the momentum. 

Q.   The difference was never more than a stroke all day.   Does that put you in a state of mind where you worry about mistakes even more each hole? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   The thing is that you can't think like that.   You can't think about not making mistakes.   You have to focus on what you want to do and stick to your plan.   Play to win, not play to not miss.   That's the difference. 
You know, 17 and 18, both are birdie chances.   I just had a one‑shot lead coming up to 17, so I knew that I had to play good.   I just missed the putt for birdie on 17, which would have given me a good, comfortable two‑stroke lead.
But you know what?   I made up and down for par and to win by one on 18, so that's all I care. 
MODERATOR:   I have to mention possible Solheim Cup match play matchup.   Today Paula said it had a little bit of match play feel.   If you haven't looked at the rankings like you said, you're eighth on points by Rolex Rankings, so you're pretty close.   And you'll jump up with your win here. 
Just talk about the feel of today. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   It totally felt like Solheim Cup for the last two days.   She is very experienced player in Solheim Cup and I'll be a rookie.   It was great to play with her, to learn, because she's so consistent.   I said even if she drives it into the rough and doesn't have a very clear shot, she's going to leave it very close to the pin.   She's done every time she was in the rough for the past two days.
So definitely felt like a little match play feel to it.   But I think it was good for us.   If you can say it that way, I felt like we were feeling each other.   She birdied, I birdied.   We all knew that in order to win we had to keep on making those birdies.
So, yeah, it was great. 

Q.   When you progress in this game and all the streak of never missing a cut, two wins in nine starts, Solheim Cup, all that stuff, as you progress in the game, do your aspirations change any do your goals become any bigger or better?
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No.   My goals are big enough already.

Q.   What are they? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Step by step.   Let me answer the first question. 

Q.   Okay. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I just have goals.   Every day I try to do my best in every single area of this game and of my life to make sure that I complete those goals.   Every day is just an evaluation of what I'm doing and feedback.   You know, obviously I feel that I'm in the right direction and I'm doing things right. 
Like I said, I miss cut in U.S. Open.   I felt like I had to approach something that needed to be approached.   I did it, and obviously I'm in the right direction.   I just bounce back with a win, so I'm definitely getting good and positive feedback. 
And I'm not going to tell you the goals. 

Q.   But, I mean, my impression is maybe you're the best player on this tour that nobody has ever heard of‑ at least until right now.   I'm not trying to be dramatic or anything, but when you look at what you've done over the last couple years, the wins, the money, the rankings, the whole shot, is that in stratosphere where you want to reach into, where people are talking about you in that type of conversation?
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yes and no.   Like I said, I have goals big enough that I want to accomplish.   There are great players out there, you know, like Se Ri, like Annika, like Inbee.   She's having a great year.   All I want to focus is to be the best I can be, and I cannot control what other people, how other people think about me.
Some people are going to love me; some people maybe they don't value me the way they should value me.   You can't control that. 
So all I can do is put a good score out there, get those wins, and the wins speak for themselves.
But, again, I don't focus on how other people see me.   I focus on how I see myself.   That's what I learned.   Just do what I have to do, you know, and not limit myself.   Just go out will and be fearless and play my best and keep on improving and getting better every day.
That's all I want to do. 
MODERATOR:   I heard on the telecast there was the comment where you said‑‑ maybe it was before you won at Kia ‑‑ where you said, Winning is easy.   We just make it very hard on ourselves. 
Now you have No. 2 under your belt.   You are always in the zone and always like you're going at it.   You're really, really fearless on the course.   Talk about the rest of the season.   No specific goals, but anything you want to accomplish throughout the second half of this year. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I mean, I have some goals I would like to accomplish end the year, but I don't want get too stressed about it.   I wan to stay in the present as much as I can.   I know that I get very intense and I don't smile very much.   Sine people say, You're a businesswoman.   You mean business out there.   And I do.   That's just how I am. 
I like focus and do my job.   Be respectful to the other players obviously, but just do my job.   I'm really happy.   I can't believe I'm standing right here.   I felt great all week long.   I didn't have winning in my mind.   I really felt like being in the present every day.
This morning I woke up so chill.   I had a regular day.   I didn't even think about winning, where in Kia I did.   So I think I'm maturing in a way and just feeling good.   I'm happy to have a week off now and see my family next week. 
MODERATOR:   Will you go home to Spain? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   For the weekend on Friday. 
MODERATOR:   Okay.   Very nice.   Thank you so much for joining us.   Congratulations on your win. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT