MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 20, 2013
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Beatriz, certainly you've got to be thinking about winning tomorrow.   But you're out against a tough field, especially (no audio). 
  BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, definitely.   I played with her today, and she's a real fighter and a great competitor, so it's not a surprise to see that chip‑in for birdie on 17.   I know that she's always going to give herself good chances and she played great. 
  I had a great day too.   I started with a birdie which is great to start your round with, and then I hit my irons really well and gave myself chances all the time.   I had some putts that just went by the hole.   But I stayed patient, and it was really good to get that birdie there on 17 and 18 to get close to 67.
Q.   Well, this is a golf course it seems as though you're long enough off the tee, but certainly very, very straight.   So that is an advantage. 
  BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, definitely.   There are some tee shots out there that it doesn't seem like it, but you do have to shape the shot. (Indiscernible).   And on 7, for example, you have a big tree on the right, so you definitely have to be smart off the tee, and sometimes you have to step back a little bit. 
  But, no, I love this course.   I have a good record on this course.   I love it.   I think the greens are rolling really true.   So, yeah, I'm feeling really good, and definitely making some putts, so that's a bonus. 
Q.   What is your mindset going into the final round? 
  BEATRIZ RECARI:   Well, same as today.   Still 18 holes left, and a lot can happen.   So I just really am trying to stay in the present as much as I can and just go shot by shot and just stay patient.   You know, like I did today.   I started with a birdie, and I had some really good chance that's didn't go in.   But I stayed patient out there, and it was great to finish with a birdie, birdie.
Q.   Is it difficult at all since you're in the same group with your co‑leader to kind of play match play?   Is it easy to get caught up in it, I guess? 
  BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, definitely, it's easier because you're playing with the closest to you kind of scoring player, if you can say it that way.   But you still have to do your best.   You can't control what she does, so you always have to stay focused on what you're doing.
Q.   Is it possible to carry momentum from one round to finish birdie‑birdie? 
  BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, it's always a bonus because I've had good chances and I felt really good about it.   It's always great, definitely.   Like I said, I felt really good and I'm feeling really good, I'm playing really well, seeing the ball great and making some really good putts out there.   So, yeah, I'm just going to stay patient and do the same thing tomorrow.
Q.   There is a sizeable group of players that have a chance tomorrow, what do you anticipate being the difference tomorrow, whoever separates themselves? 
  BEATRIZ RECARI:   To be honest, I don't know.   I haven't seen the leaderboard.   I don't want to get too caught up on other players' scores.   But the difference, like always, will be on the greens and making those putts and obviously, giving yourself good chances to make them.   But it all comes down to putting.
Q.   Have you played much with Paula in the past? 
  BEATRIZ RECARI:   I've played a couple of times, especially this year.   I've played with her in Texas, and I played with her in Kia.   It's always great to play with her.   She's a great player.   It's always great to play with her.
Q.   What would it mean for you to win this? 
  BEATRIZ RECARI:   It would mean a lot, honestly.   But I still have 18 holes left tomorrow, so I just want to stay in the present and whatever happens, happens.
Q.   With the season that she's had and Inbee not being in contention, does that surprise you out there? 
  BEATRIZ RECARI:   I didn't know she wasn't in contention, but it's definitely a surprise.   She's so consistent.   She's such a great player.   She's had such a good run up until now.   She won three in a row in the U.S. Open, so she's definitely having a great season. 
  But, like I said, you can't control what other players do.   You can only control what you can do.   I'm just happy that I'm tied for the lead after the third round. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT