MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 19, 2013
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome Beatriz Recari.   Thanks for joining us.   Taking a little deep breathe in the cool AC in the interview room. 
Talk about the heat today.   Obviously another factor, but it was a little bit breezier for you guys though.
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I felt like actually yesterday was a little bit hotter.   I don't know how many bottles of water I drank.   Definitely it's as factor, but it's the same for everybody.   You've got to stay hydrated, but other than that it was fine.
My round was really, really good.   I started with a good par save on the 1st hole where I laid up.   I was on the left in the rough and I had a tree blocking it, and I laid up short and good approach shots, and then a 15‑footer for par.   So that was good mojo and good way to start with a positive feeling.
I was feeling really good about my iron, and I was definitely more aggressive than yesterday.   I kept fighting as good as yesterday, so that's really the difference.   I gave myself some more birdie chances and I made them. 
Eagle on 15, and then good birdie on 16.   Two birdie opportunities on 17 and 18, but overall I'm really pleased with how the day went.
MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Take use through the recovery of the bogey, bogey, birdie, birdie.   That has to be comfortable in the middle of your round to be able to recover from that and close out strong?
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, I was a little bit upset, especially about that bogey, bogey, because especially on 11 I hit a great 6‑iron that was just past the pin, past the greens.   But I was just on the fringe, in between the fringe and the first cut of the rough. 
I hit it, but it was just lightning fast and it went by, I don't know, just‑‑ I didn't make it and I was like, Eh.   I was determined to get it back, and I did. 
I made a good birdie putt on 12; then a good birdie putt on 13; good opportunity on 14; then eagle on 15 and birdie on 16. 
So, yeah, it s a good recovery, like you said, and I was pleased that it went that way. 
MODERATOR:   I have to ask, sorry to bring it up, but your first missed cut at the last event at the U.S. Open.   The streak is cut, but 46 straight made cuts.   Talk about maybe having almost the weight lifted off your shoulders, or did you think you could go a little bit longer? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No, I didn't have any weight on my shoulders.   I would have loved to keep continuing and it was a disappointment not to make it.   I played good round on Friday, just the first round. 
But I have some time to reflect, and I am actually pleased that it happened because it was a good lesson that I had to learn. 
I took some positives out of it and I decided that it's no pressure.   If I have to start from zero again, I will start from zero.   I always go out there and do my best, regardless of the result.
Like I said, you know, it was a disappointment, but I learned a big lesson which was needed for me to keep improving.   I did a good job the last two weeks, and obviously it's paying off.   So I think pressure is self‑imposed. 
Like I said, I only focus on the (indiscernible) which were many, and that's it. 
MODERATOR:   You took a couple weeks off; didn't play last week.   Anything in particular you practiced?   You love to practice and grind it.   Did you take time off or did you really go out and hit balls and grind it out to get back on track? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, well, I unfortunately took time off because I wasn't feeling 100%.   It was something that had bothered me for more than a month, so I decided to take the time necessary.
I always said it was a joke with ironwoman, you know, I am not going to play every week if I don't feel like I can perform at my best.   I didn't feel like I could, so I decided to take a week off.   It was hard for me, but I took some days off to recover physically.   I did, and I'm feeling match better.
I made sure the days leading into this week that I practiced really well and with quality, and I'm feeling good. 
MODERATOR:   Good.   Questions for Beatriz. 

Q.   Illness or injury you're refer to about not feeling good?
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Not feeling good.   You can read between the lines. 

Q.   There are a lot of lines to read between. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I don't like to call it injury.   It was something that was bothering me for more than a month.   I'm feeling much better. 

Q.   Can you talk us through the eagle and your shots and what you hit, the distances?
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Well, if I remember right, it was either 150 or 152 to the pin.   It was slightly to the left.   It was like a 7:00 wind direction.   It was an 8‑iron.   It was really fitting my eye, because I normally see the tiny draw.   It was on the left and it was perfect to cancel the wind.
I saw it land and I saw that it was the right distance with the amount of wind that was helping.   I saw it land and I saw that it was obviously taking the direction toward the pin.   I knew it was going to be a good shot.   I didn't now it was going to go in, but I felt good and it was a good shot.
Yeah, I took two shots on that hole instead of one.   So it's always good to have. 

Q.   Are you thinking about Solheim Cup already? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Because everybody is asking me about Solheim Cup, yes, I'm thinking about it because I'm getting a lot of media requests from Spain and people are asking me if I'm thinking about Solheim Cup.   Only the British left, right? 
So it's in my mind because obviously people are making me more aware of it.   But I'm not really thinking about that that much.   I don't want to focus too much of that. 
It all comes down to the captain's decisions.   She has to pick the team she thinks, and whether it's me in there, great.   If not, you know, it's a team event.   It's not about me.   It's not about individuals.   All I can do is do my every week.   That's what I can control.   And make sure that she has the reasons to pick me.
You know, it will definitely be a dream to be part of that team since I was so close two years ago.   It was definitely something I set up as a goal.   I can only say that if I don't make the team I'm relieved because I know that I did my best to make the team.   If I make the team, great.   Obviously I'm doing the right things.
I'm feeling good.   I had a very good year so far.   I'm definitely excited about the second half and definitely going to‑‑ I'm determined to keep up this level of play and keep improving and hopefully get more wins.

Q.   Have you paid attention to the points race and where you stand? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No, don't tell me, please.

Q.   So you don't want any extra pressure?
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No. 

Q.   Just tell me at the end, huh?
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah.

Q.   There are quite a few Europeans that are likely to be on the team.   How strong is that team going to be? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   You know, to be honest with you, and I'm dead honest, I don't even know what position I'm in.   I didn't want to think about it because it's not my decision. 
I know that many good European players are playing great.   Suzann, Catriona.   So many others.   Julia.   She's playing great.   Had a good tournament in the U.S. Open.
So what matters is Europeans are doing well.   Then it all comes down to who the captain wants to pick.   I haven't paid attention.   I can only focus on what I can do. 

Q.   You've won on this tour.   I'm not suggesting that winning is not the goal every week, but is there something to be said for the consistency you've shown the last year and a half?   Did the cut streak mean a lot to you? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Well, it obviously gave me good feedback.   You know, that was the result of that.   Just keep on doing the same things I'm doing and improving tiny little things and refining things little by little by keeping it simple and being very consistent. 
Obviously that's paying off and it has paid off. 

Q.   As good a round as you had today, when you walked off 17 and 18 here with par, does that feel like you maybe left something out there because of the birdie opportunities those holes gave you? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   You know, you aim to do 18 birdies and hopefully get an eagle here and there.   Maybe 19 or 20‑under.   Obviously that's my goal.   If I don't shoot that, obviously I felt that I left something out there.
But 17 and 18 I played the shots as I wanted and they were all very good shots.   I gave myself a chance.   They just went by.   It wasn't like it was off line at all.   I gave myself a good chance.   Some putts go in; some don't.
I'm very pleased with 17 and 18 because I did my best and I hit very good shots and very good putts.
I did very good on all the holes that maybe you don't think that they're birdie opportunities.   But you can't think that way.   You can't just see this is a par hole or birdie hole.   Then you go crazy.   You aim to do your best every hole.
I don't look at it as I dropped two chances.

Q.   Have you ever done a full interview without being asked about Running with the Bulls? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I think so.   But, I mean...

Q.   I just wanted to make sure that streak was... you've been there many times, I presume.
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah.   You know, that's where I grew up.   For us, I always explain it, because internationally it's known as The Running of the Bulls, but there are so many more things going on.   It's a very religious festival for the locals.   There are a lot of traditions, a lot of things, a lot of festivities.
Yes, it's a party festival and happy festival and there is a lot of singing and good food.   Yeah, just everybody is happy.
But there is a lot of tradition.   I always want to make sure that I when I explain it people understand that it's more than just the Running of the Bulls in the morning.   It's a whole experience and ambience.   Like Christmas.   Everybody is happy for that week. 
So I am happy to see it and I loved ‑‑ when I was young I was always excited for that week to come.   I had so much fun with my family, with friends.   It's a very fun festival and always something to do every day.
MODERATOR:   When was the last time you were there for it? 
MEG MALLON:   I think three years ago.   It's always from the 7th to the 14th of July, so always during the week of a tournament or in between two tournaments.   My commitment is here, and if I go back I'm not going to practice.   It's not good preparation.   So I obviously follow it through TV with my fans. 

Q.   St. Fermin? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Good job. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT