LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 17, 2013
Suzann Pettersen
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   We'd like to bring in two of our current leaders.   First off, Suzann Pettersen, who shot 7‑under today, and Beatriz Recari who shot 5‑under.   
The two of them played together today, so we thought it would be fun to bring them in together to get a chance to talk about your rounds.   
Great playing.   I guess I'll just ask you both:   First off, what were you most impressed by with each other's games today watching?   You both had some tremendous rounds going out there.   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Well, I think she started with a birdie, so I mean, it's always great to play with her because she's so competitive.   I think it got to a point where we were kind of beating each other because we were making birdie, birdie and we were just really hitting really good shots into the pins and making some putts.   
And then I had a good run in my first ni one, so back nine; then she had a very good run in the second nine.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   No, I went out today and tried to be really aggressive.   My dad was so disappointed after the Kraft that I left all the putts short.   He's like, You got to hit the ball past the hole to make putts.  
The greens are a little bit slower here so you can be a bit more aggressive.   Played a good round of golf.   Made a fair share of putts.  
Always nice to play with a fellow European.   Nice to get to know her game with a big event coming up.   It's a lot of fun.   
MODERATOR:   We were talking as we were coming back and there was one key to your round that no one might know about.   What was the difference?   You're going to credit the shoes for your round today?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   I may be wearing a brand new pair of Nikes.   They're not released yet, but I've been testing them at home.   That's all I've been playing with over the last few months.   
I got the green light to put them on in a tournament this week.   Feels like I'm right at home.   Very, very good shoes.   It's the female version of the Tiger Woods shoes.   They're very comfortable.   
I must say I actually feel the greens a lot better because the foot is fitting a lot better in the shoe.   Very, very happy with that.  
MODERATOR:   Beatriz, after getting back in the winner's circle at Kia this year, what kind of pressure did that take off you?   I know you'd been playing great golf even before that win, but seemed like that consistency just stayed with you.   These good rounds just keep coming.  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, well, it was actually no pressure.   I mean, to get that second win was definitely very special, especially because I had three years in between where I felt like I was improving and getting my game to where I wanted it to be but just not getting those wins.  
So definitely very special.   The thing is when you win you want to keep winning.   I didn't feel like just wanted to sit back and relax and just kind of cruise.   Obviously you want to put yourself in that position again and hopefully get more trophies.  
So really no pressure.   It felt great to get the second win, but I want to keep winning.   It's kind of like I want more.   I have that feeling as opposed to any pressure at all.   
MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   Give us an idea of conditions out there and if you've ever seen it as calm as it was today.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, yesterday was pretty calm.   A bit unusual wind.  
I mean, it's very playable.   The wind kind of changed a little bit on the back, on our front nine, which was the back nine, which makes actually the two par‑5s on the back reachable.   
Into the wind when we played them you can't get there.   I mean, you could almost get to 10 when we played, which makes all the par‑5s a three‑shot hole.  
If the wind turned like it is now, you can probably get to 1 and couple more.  
But very playable.   Greens are really, really true, very good.   Course is in good shape.   Obviously dumped a lot of water a couple days ago, but it's recovered well.  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   This is my second time in Hawaii, so to answer your question, I think it was kind of challenging today, I felt, with the wind, since the it wasn't blowing at all the first three days.   If anything, it was blowing a different direction.  
This wind direction really was the wind that we had last year, so it was kind of‑‑ you know, you have to visualize the hole a different way than the last few days because wind was completely different.  
So I think at the beginning that was probably a challenge.   And also 12, you know, made it a little bit easier since they moved the tee up.   
But I think honestly, we tee'd off at 7:50 and it was already blowing pretty hard, especially in the back none.   Those holes are really open to the ocean.  
So I think it was a good challenge out there.   
   
 Q.   How are you so consistent with the number of tournaments you played?  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No, I think I found my key.   I found one, two, three, things that obviously are giving me the results and consistency that I wanted to achieve.   
So I love playing.   I feel fit.   I'm young.   They gives me a lot of crap because I play every event, but I love it.   I absolutely love it.   I love the competition.  
If at some point I feel like I cannot play four in a row, I will decide to take a week off.   But it's not the case.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   You say you're not going to play four weeks in a row?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I am.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Yeah, you are.   Sorry.   Thought you were feeling a little bit sick right there.   No, everything is fine.   
   
 Q.   What do they pick on you about?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No, no, I mean, just a joke.   I feel like every week I play is a chance to win.   
Like I said, if I didn't feel physically, mentally ready to put myself in a position to win every week, I wouldn't do it.  
So that's why I play every week.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   When I was young I used to play every tournament, too.   She'll get to my age and figure out that her body and mind needs a rest.   
MODERATOR:   Suzann, how impressive is it when you do look at the streak of consecutive tournaments that she's been able to compete as consistently as she has over that stretch?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, I look at ‑‑ probably you can even look few years back.   I could see the disappointment of not playing at European team.   I think she almost deserved a spot at that time.   
Taking that frustration and disappointment and turn around, keep grinding it out, get better, and make sure you play your way onto the team this year coming, I think she's done a phenomenal job.   Her consistency shows.   Her win was no surprise to any of us.  
And that's what I like.   She's a grinder and she fights it out and bounces back.  
MODERATOR:   We figured out this month there are four months until Solheim.   I know you're already gearing up for that to make sure you maintain the Cup.   How excited are you looking at the team you've got coming together and talent like this going back to defend your title?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Well, it's kind of interesting.   I mean, if you look at them now, our team is looking a little different.   I mean, when I used to start playing the Solheims, half the team was Swedish.   We had the No. 1 player in the world who was the most dominant player ever, and couple of English.   It was almost like guaranteed team just sitting right on the paper.   Everyone was playing well.   
Now I think there is a lot of new young players knocking on the door who wants to be the a team.   I don't think that's a disadvantage.   They're hungry and want to perform and get out there.   A lot of them already have a lot of great experiences from playing in the Junior Solheim.   
So I think our team is, as of now, looking good.   I think we have more and more players starting to play good.  
If you look at Kraft, I remember standing on the 18th green and looking at the scoreboard, and all of a sudden I'm like, There are six Europeans in the top 10, top 12, which is probably the first time ever.   It was good.   
MODERATOR:   Any more questions?   
   
 Q.   How many times were you putting for eagle today?   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   For eagles?   Oh, I just tried to make birdies.   Hit a few shots for eagles, bit I didn't make 'em.   I couldn't get to the par‑5s.   
   
 Q.   Suzann, you had two bogeys out there today.   What happened out there?  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   The first bogey I just missed a very short putt.   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Let's not talk about bogeys.  
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   The second one I didn't get up and down.   7‑under, it was a good score.   Could have been a couple better, but also made my fair share.   No complaints.   
   
 Q.   How did you get the nickname Iron Woman, and what do you think of it?   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   It started as a joke with another player, just a friend of mine.   She just kind of was joking and saying, Oh, you're playing every tournament.   Stop.   And then she just came up with that name.  
I mean, I kind of adopted it.   I thought it was a nice nickname.   I now have to keep it up.   You know, I have to keep up the consistency.   
So it's a good nickname.   It's funny, because in Spanish media they translated it so they thought they called me iron woman for other reasons, which I'm not going to get into.  
No, I mean, it started really just as a joke.   You know, all I care about is what it means, and that is that consistency that I have right now and that I worked so hard to achieve.   I just, like I said, have to keep it up now.   
   
 Q.   Who was the player?  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I can't tell you.   I don't want her to get all like, you know.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Pamplona and the Running of the Bulls.)  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   You know, I mean, that's really crazy.   Those are completely different things.   
Yeah, it's just ‑‑ I watched it enough times to realize it's just too crazy.   It's just tradition that started hundreds of years ago and made my hometown famous.   It's a very small town and it's very charming once that week comes, and, you know, all the traditions that involve that festival.   
Making every cut or playing every event just is pretty demanding, but both are completely different things, so...  
MODERATOR:   Any more questions for these two?   Thank you very much, ladies.  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Thank you.   
SUZANN PETTERSEN:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT