SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 8, 2018
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What things did you do well today out there?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: You know, I think I was just really solid tee to green.  Of course I dropped some putts.  I feel like I had a very good strategy.  I always placed it in the right spots on the green and gave myself good looks; putted well, too.   
I guess it was a very well rounded round overall.   
 Q.  Is this a course you like to play?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: Yes, I've always scored really well here.  Always had really good finishes.  I don't really know how to explain why it's a good fit for me, but I feel very comfortable.   
You know, I've been working hard on my game and it's definitely paying off.  I hit the ball really, really solid.  I had a very good few weeks of building up and improving bit by bit, and I am very pleased with today.   
 Q.  What are some of those things you've been working hard on?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: Just technique-wise.  Knowing my tendencies, staying a little bit more centered.  Using my body a little bit better, you know, together with my arms.  Just trying to get better at it, you know, step up the level of playing.   
 Q.  You've got pretty good numbers from an accuracy standpoint statistics-wise.  Think that's kind of maybe something that helps you out here?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: Yeah, I feel like I've been very derailed in the past with trying to hit it longer.  You know, doesn't work.  For me at least it doesn't work.  I have to analyze what has worked for me in the past.   
I've had three wins on tour and obviously I know how to be successful, so it was just a matter of remembering what my game is and how I need to play.   
Actually, I was very pleased with that decision.  I felt more comfortable out there.  I felt like it was more me, my style of play.  I felt like -- yeah, emotionally I feel a lot better sticking to my game plan and who I am.   
Yeah, felt very comfortable today.  I think it's obvious with the score.  Yeah, just very, very pleased.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT