U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2012
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Please tell us about your day.   
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Well, my very first hole was kind of an adventure.   I hit my driver way longer than I did in the practice round, so I was a little bit on the left on my first hole.   I teed off on the first.   So I was just past the left bunker, had a downhill lie, in the rough.   So had to just hit it a pitching wedge.   It was behind the bunker.   I had a very difficult bunker shot, or chip shot.   Played it, hit the pin to like one feet, one foot, holed it and then I birdied the second and then pretty much all day long I was very steady.   I definitely kept to my strategy, just play the ball in the right positions, and I took my chances when I had them.  
   
 Q.   Getting out of that first hole with a par did that kind of lift you a little bit?  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, definitely.   I mean you know, when you have that ‑‑ it was a very, very difficult chip shot.   I had to flop it over the drunk and then it was just all downhill towards the pin.   So definitely.   I mean I was positive there.   I just have to have good visualization, and it finished one foot away from the hole.   So that's definitely ‑‑ I took it with me.   You just have to get the good bounces when you have them and just say, okay, you know, that was good par.   Keep moving and just focus on the next and just give yourself ‑‑ be aggressive.   On the par‑5s I had a wedge on the second shot so ‑‑ on the third shot.   So yeah, just definitely today was ‑‑ we did ‑‑ my caddie and I did a great job selecting clubs and just making sure that if I was not going to be able to reach the pin, you know, give myself a pretty decent two‑putt.  
   
 Q.   Everybody wants to be where you are after the first day.   How does it feel?   Is it important to you to be up near the top after the first day and where are you confidence wise knowing ‑‑ everyone's been talking about how difficult this course is knowing you're at the top going into day two?  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Well, I've been playing very solid all year and I was tied for the lead in Wegmans as well, so definitely my confidence is where it has to be.   I mean you just have to keep on building it and make sure that you don't get, I don't know how to say, like too confident.   You just have to keep working hard every day and keep making sure that you tune up the right parts of your game when you have to.   
And my putting wasn't at the right level, definitely in the last few rounds at Wegmans, so that's something that we worked on, and my course management as well, and Tom Creavy, my coach, and I definitely went through it after Wegmans and worked on my putting, touch putter last week and that definitely made a huge difference in my mid range and long putts.  
   
 Q.   What was harder the difficulty of the course and the heat, to shoot as well as you did, I imagine you're feeling pretty darn good aside from being at the top?  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, it was definitely very, very hot, and you know, keeping yourself hydrated was No. 1 goal out there and make sure your brain is still functioning and not too drowsy.   
But I love hot weather.   I'm from north of Spain and it's incredibly cold and I moved to Florida.   I'm a Floridian now, and I definitely love the hot weather.   Doesn't bother me too much.   Just a matter of make sure that you hydrate yourself properly and drink plenty of water and take your electrolytes at the right time so you don't have any lulls out there.  
   
 Q.   Is this right up there with the hottest weather that you've ever played in?  
BEATRIZ RECARI:   You know, last week was really, really hot, but I think there's some humidity because of the lakes and rivers around.   I mean I'm soaking wet.   I can't say anything else, and you guys know, it's very, very hot.   And I don't know ‑‑ I'm not sure if it's the hottest I've ever played in, but it's one of the hottest for sure.   I mean it was challenging.   
   
 Q.   Thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT