U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 2012
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, we have Beatriz Recari, who fired a round of 2 under par 70.   Beatriz is 25 years old, she's from Espana.   We congratulate her for that good round.   How did you deal with the heat today?   It looked brutal out there. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, that was definitely a challenge today.   And we bought some electrolytes last week.   It was incredibly hot.   It was very hard conditions.   Took some electrolytes, drank some electrolytes before the round when I was warming up.   Some more   halfway through and in the end.   Make sure that you drink plenty of water.   That was definitely goal No. 1 out there to make sure that we stay hydrated and, yeah, we just‑‑ that was the most important part. 
But it was challenging, and, yeah.   That was it. 
THE MODERATOR:   You had a very consistent round.   Two birdies, no bogeys.   A birdie on No. 2, the par‑5.   What did you hit to the green there, and how long was your putt? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   On No. 2?   I hit my 54 degree.   I had, if I remember right, 86 yards to the pin and I probably had like a 5‑footer past the pin. 
THE MODERATOR:   And then on No. 12, the par‑4, you birdied.   What did you hit into that hole? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Hit my 6‑iron.   I think it was 164 to the pin.   It was slightly helping.   And I don't know.   I would say maybe a 12‑footer right‑to‑left.   It was pretty big break.   But, yeah, I made it. 
THE MODERATOR:   How do you feel about your round today? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   I feel great.   Especially because I played very smart out there.   I gave myself chances.   And the most important part is that I didn't run into trouble.   I had a great up‑and‑down in the first.   After that ‑‑ that was a little bit more of an adventure hole, my very first hole.   But after that I was just very solid, driving it to the fairway on the green, and just my distance starting my long putting was very, very good. 
My comebacks were tap‑ins.   If not, they were no more than 3‑footers.   So that was definitely very important.   We did a lot of work on the greens this practice days and made sure that we have the greens very well charted. 
Like I said, just make sure that if I was not going to be able to go for the pin, just position the ball in the right place so that I could have an easy 2‑putt.
THE COURT:   A lot of players said the putting was going to be the key this week.   Particularly the long putts.   Do we have any questions? 

Q.   Rounds are about five hours or so at least in length.   Do you think a lot of that is because of the difficulty of the course or just the conditions being so warm out there and hot and humid? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   You know, the practice runs were very long too.   And I think the greens are challenging.   There are a lot of small ridges.   It reminds me a lot of links courses, the greens, that is, very small.   You definitely have to keep‑‑ have the greens under control pretty much. 
And I think‑‑ I don't know why exactly, but I mean, it's obvious it's a U.S. Open course.   It is hard.   And you have to play smart, and yeah, it's very easy to run into trouble.   That's what I did really well today.   Just stay out of it. 
But a few pins out there that you can actually be aggressive.   Most of them are just going to go and roll past.   Then you have long putt as a first putt.   So, yeah, you‑‑ it's a challenging course.   Definitely. 
THE MODERATOR:   Do you think the fact that it's such a difficult course, that's what made the play slow? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   That's the only reason I come up with.   It's hot out there.   That doesn't make you that much slower.   I mean, I think I play with Se Ri and J.J.   We all, by the looks of it, have the same routine as in a regular tournament.   We drink more water, but you don't walk slower.   Why it took longer is because of the difficulty of the course, I would say.   That's my opinion. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions? 

Q.   How do you prepare to play a course that's 500 yards longer than what you play on average at the tour? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   That's always been my advantage and disadvantage at the same time.   I've never been a long hitter.   As an amateur, I was always the first one to hit and hit in a bunch of woods and hybrids into the greens.   So that is not new.   Doesn't upset me when I go to one course, and I have to hit a lot of hybrids.   I developed a very consistent swing, and I joke with my caddie, my hybrid is my favorite club of the bag.   I just leave it as close as with my wedges.   It's not upsetting when I have to hit hybrids.   I accept it.   I have to commit to that shot and make sure that my mind is in the right place. 
But coming into this kind of courses, now that, for example, I tend to play slightly always‑‑ I always do it.   But even more now‑‑ I tend to play a little bit longer yardages than we normally do, because if you practice in harder conditions, then you go to your tournament and you feel very confident about your game. 

Q.   So you think there could be an advantage to the players that are normally shorter playing a course like this because you're more used to using your woods and hybrids? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   The only advantage is going to be for those players that are very consistent and patient.   I play with Se Ri and J.J. 
And it was a great experience.   It was the first time I ever played with Se Ri.   And I think the second time I played with J.J.   And they are very consistent and solid players.   That's what they do.   They give themselves chances and just stay patient and just be solid all day long.   That's the key. 
THE MODERATOR:   After a day like today, when you've been struggling a bit with the heat and the length of the round and a difficult golf course, what do you do now?   Do you go out and beat balls or do you go rest? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Well, I always wind down even if I have a very good feeling.   Like today I just‑‑ I'll do a few drills that I do every day just to make sure that the right feeling is still going on for tomorrow and for the next few days.   But definitely in any situation, any day, resting is very important to recover. 
I'll probably go to the gym a little bit, since I have a late tee time tomorrow.   So I can definitely do that and release some adrenaline.   But hydrate yourself, eat proper food, a little bit of gym this afternoon and plenty of rest.   That's my plan. 

Q.   You had a fairly early tee time today.   Can you weigh the advantages and disadvantages of playing in the morning versus the afternoon? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   As a first day round? 

Q.   Today. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Just today. 
THE MODERATOR:   I think he's talking about playing early‑late, which is what you have. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   You know, you play late‑early or early‑late always.   But in the U.S. Open if you're feeling confident, you're playing well, it's definitely an advantage to just set up a good score and get yourself up in the leaderboard soon and then keep that. 
I think with these heat conditions and this type of course it's going to be good to have that extra rest in between.   So play late‑early I think is going to be a good side of the draw.   I feel like it. 

Q.   What I'm driving at is did you find the course was hardening up as the day went on? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   No, I played‑‑ I had a late practice tee time on Monday, and I had early Tuesday and Wednesday.   And I think it's just as challenging.   It's not softer.   It's just as hard.   The greens are the same in terms of how receptive they are.   But I think I'm going more towards having that extra rest in between and putting up a good score on the leaderboard early after the first round. 
THE MODERATOR:   The statistics on the golf course showed that up until at least a half hour ago the 8th hole, the par‑3, was the third hardest hole on the golf course.   I know you parred it today.   But 195 yards. 
Averaging more than 3.5 strokes.   Why do you think it's the third hardest hole? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Well, you have a balance of water on the left.   And the shape of the green it is‑‑ starts on the right and then kind of follows towards the left.   So already like where the tee were today, it was playing pretty long. It was like 160 something yards to the front, to the very front, and that's on the right, and the pin was on the left.   The left side is intimidating.   When I played it, it was the wind was blowing to the right.   If you play just to the middle right it's going to end up in the thick rough and that side of the hole is ‑‑ practice these last few days is very, very thick.   So it's challenging. 
And I was‑‑ it is an intimidating hole just because of the setup of the green and especially where the pin was today.   It was long left.
THE MODERATOR:   And the wind was blowing it towards the out of bounds in the water. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Exactly.   So you had to play it smart.   That hole, it was just par was ‑‑
>> THE MODERATOR:   You were glad to get out of it with a par. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yes. 
THE MODERATOR:   Beatriz, fine round.   Thanks for joining us and good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT