RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 18, 2011
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Welcome.
 BEATRIZ RECARI: Thank you.
 THE MODERATOR: Good playing today. 
 BEATRIZ RECARI: Thank you.
 THE MODERATOR: Just start it off by just some comments on the round.
 BEATRIZ RECARI: Well, I'm feeling very solid. I did really good work during these last two weeks, and I'm feeling very solid with my game. I was striking it really well. 
 So I birdied on 10. I had a birdie chance on 10 and I made birdie on 11. So I was overall feeling very confident. 
 I missed two putts on the back nine, my very first hole. So I then kept patient and I was playing really well, putting them next to the pin, and then they started dropping in. So I'm really happy.
 THE MODERATOR: Given the unique nature of the event, I've been asking everyone who's coming in, who you're playing for and why.
 BEATRIZ RECARI: I am playing for a charity in West Palm that is awareness for girls and boys with eating disorders. Why, because I already told you out there in the media because I struggled myself a few years ago, and it's something that touches me personally. And I thought that, you know, if I have this opportunity, then why not play for this cause.
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.

 Q. How much does winning on the LPGA Tour last year help you coming into this year?
 BEATRIZ RECARI: It helped me tremendously because it's verify for me that the work that I was doing was correct and that my game was good enough to win out there. It's just a matter of refinement here and there just keeping with it, that it was not a major thing; I could win, so why can't I win now. And after that I had a very good end of the season, so that gave me a lot of confidence, of course. 
 And other than that it gave me confirmation that what I was doing was right, so I just kept working on it and harder and harder and harder, and I believe that I did very good winter training, so far the best I consider. And I played well in Asia and I'm playing very well, so I'm feeling overall very confident. 
 Like I said, I won last year, and of course, I want to keep winning. How many, I don't know. And you know, if I don't win this year, I can't control that. I just can control every day, and that's what I did out there today. And I just hope that I can put another two good rounds and I can take the trophy home. 

 Q. How many fairways did you hit today and how does this course suit your game?
 BEATRIZ RECARI: I just finished, so I don't really know the stats. I have to go after. I don't like to get obsessed on the course on how many greens I'm hitting or not.
 It's just that I was playing very well and I missed a couple of fairways just on the edge, but I'm very happy with how I played. I don't know exactly the stats, how many. 

 Q. When Brittany was in, she mentioned that the greens were very firm and she really had to adjust to account for that. Did you find that to be the case also?
 BEATRIZ RECARI: Not so much the greens. I play in Florida, and I believe that I hit a little bit further here because it's not so humid. It's really dry. So for me it was a matter of adjusting the distance that I was flying at every single cup. 
 Yes, there are some greens that are a little bit bouncy, but for me it was more the wind and the extra yardage when I'm hitting over here. But I think I managed well. There were just a few that were bouncy. The rest are okay. 

 Q. Do you keep track where you are on the Solheim Cup point list?
 BEATRIZ RECARI: No. (Laughs). No.

 Q. Is that important to you, making the team?
 BEATRIZ RECARI: Of course it is very important. This year is the closest I've been to making the team. I don't know where I'm standing. I guess I'm up there, I guess, but again, I don't want to focus on it. 
 It's one of my goals this year, of course, but if I cannot make it for whatever reason, the important thing is the team, the 12 of them are the best that are playing right then. And the most important thing is that they get the trophy. 
 If I can be a part of it, that's my goal and what I work for. It would be great. If not, I believe there will be many more chances in the future. But of course, it is one of my goals this year, but again, I don't get obsessed by it. I just want to focus on every day, and I believe that is the way to do it. I learned something last year and that's that you cannot force any win or anything to happen. You cannot force it. 

 Q. Have you been to Phoenix before, and what are your impressions of like the desert or something? Is it something like maybe you would see in a movie or something?
 BEATRIZ RECARI: Yes. I've never been. This is my first time. And I just arrived Tuesday night, so to be honest with you, I haven't seen much, other than what is around the course. 
 I heard and many people have told me that it is beautiful, but when you travel, I don't get to see much. It's totally different because I live by the ocean, so this is as close as you can get to a cactus. So it is beautiful. It's different, and I really like it. The people are great, but yeah, my skin is dry. 
 But other than that, it is good. Again, the only thing that I've had to adjust is that I believe the ball flies longer because there is no humidity here. 

 Q. With this format with the purse going to charity, what kind of hardship has it created for you, and how do you feel about it?
 BEATRIZ RECARI: Well, it definitely, you know, this goes back to the question before, since I chose something that is very close to me, of course I have that extra motivation to do well because it's kind of like I've had that, and for me, it's giving it back to those people that are in that situation. And if I can help just one person, you know, it's really good for me. 
 And especially with what's going on in the Pacific, I think we have to be very thankful for where we are. And you know, you never know, you have to be happy and thankful for everything that happens every day. 

 Q. Can you give the short version of -- I believe it was anorexia you battled with? What ages you had it and how you came out of it?
 BEATRIZ RECARI: I don't want to make a drama out of it. Okay. I don't even remember. It's just not like all of a sudden the next day I'm like I'm anorexic. It's not like that. 
 And it's not like I was anorexic either. I lost a little weight. I don't want to make it sound like I was anorexic or whatever. I lost a little weight because for me I was struggling with that, and it started for me, when you're growing up, you know, everything that you see out there is whether it's going to make you fat or not. Or you have to stay thin because that is associated with being successful, and that's what you see in all the people are like, I'm trying to lose weight and everything. You hear it constantly, not only in magazines, but just out there on the street. 
 And when I was growing up, I didn't understand. Like all of a sudden I was like, why didn't you eat that biscuit, it's like well, because it's going to make me fat. So for me it's like, what? 
 So that's how I started. I had that experience. Again, I don't want to make a drama out of it. I am very healthy now. I love my body. I love eating. It's just an experience that I had, and that made me grow as a person, and that's all I care about. I hope that from my experience and my learning experience I can help other people who are struggling like that because I just want to help other people and be a good example. 

 Q. Who helped you with that?
 BEATRIZ RECARI: Who helped me what, find the organization? 

 Q. You're helping an organization that does that, but I was just curious, who helped with you with it.
 BEATRIZ RECARI: Several people who were close to me. My family, of course. And just people that I happened to meet after that or gave me advice after that, and I learned so much about nutrition and about my body. I learned how to deal with when I'm traveling, you know, to eat. I travel with my fruit bag so I can always have snacks wherever I go, and it's just the focus. My family was right there from the very first moment, and after that you meet like other people like that.
 THE MODERATOR: Anything else? Thank you.
 BEATRIZ RECARI: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT