CVS/PHARMACY LPGA CHALLENGE
October 15, 2010
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. At 9 you just seemed to hit fire. You got the eagle on I think it was 11, and some nice birdies after that. What clicked for you and turned it around?  
 BEATRIZ RECARI: Yeah, well, I had a very good mojo from yesterday. I was playing very well. I was leaving it close to the pin just the putts weren't dropping.   
 I just said, Okay, I just have to be calm. You know, there's plenty of holes out there and plenty of opportunities.   
 So, yeah, just kept calm. Yeah, just sometimes you see them or they're passing by the lip. Sometimes you see it clearly and they just start dropping one after another.   
 That's what happened on the back nine. I'm very happy with my performance today.  
  
  Q. Obviously this course appeals to you. What do you like about it?  
 BEATRIZ RECARI: I like the fact that you have to position the ball. You have to be very conscious of where the pin is and where you want to position it.   
 Also from the tee, some holes you have to (recording interrupted) you know, left or right or even with the driver.  
 So that's what I like about it. The course, the last year on European Tour that I won was very similar to this, was very strategic and positioning the ball, small greens, and similar grass.   
 So just gives me good memories. And as I say, it just suits my game because -- well, I have a very good caddie, too. We're always discussing the shots.   
  
  Q. We don't know a lot about you. Talk about your time on the LPGA Tour this year.   
 BEATRIZ RECARI: Well, for me the step was very big. At the beginning I had a very slow start. I had two top 10s, but then I had several missed cuts. That definitely, you know, affected me, and I tried to change stuff.  
 These weeks off with my family, we just went back to basics. I did a very good job at the gym and worked very hard on the course and out there, in the gym.   
 Yeah, that's what brought me here. I just don't have any expectations. Just go out there and play. You know, the ball doesn't know where it is. I just have to trust myself and let it happen.  
  
  Q. What do you expect tomorrow to be like?   
 BEATRIZ RECARI: You know, I don't think about tomorrow now. I'm just going to enjoy it. I like to be day by day and enjoy the small victories.  
 I think tomorrow is nothing special. (Recording interrupted) If I was top 10 I would go aggressive. So, you know, I just don't like to focus on the position and just play the shots.   
  
  Q. This is kind of a transitional time with the LPGA with Lorena gone and everyone jostling for that No. 1 ranking. What does it say when you have two rookies heading into the weekend sharing the lead?   
 BEATRIZ RECARI: Well, I know Gwladys from the European Tour, and she's a great player. It seems like the No. 1 spot is a kind of like switching every week.   
 But, yeah, no, I'm very happy to be here. I worked hard to be here. You know, the course and the results are showing that, so that's all I care about.  
 As I say, I go day by day.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT