ANA INSPIRATION
March 30, 2018
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Even par today.  Are you happy with the way you played?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: Yeah, a couple holes I wasn't as sharp, but I hit good recovery shots, and I hit some really good shots.  Maybe today I wasn't -- I don't know if it's the right way to say -- the wrong side of the hole.  I had a lot of downhill putts and obviously on these greens it breaks a lot and you have to be extra careful on the pace.   
I guess that yesterday I had a little bit more closer looks, but I still played really well.  I had some good up-and-downs.  I hit some good putts, and overall, I think I played really well.  So I'm just going to keep it up for the weekend.   
 Q.  Any adjustments you're going to take into the weekend maybe to put yourself into some better spots on the greens?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: Yeah, I mean, you always try for that, but I guess that today I had a lot of distances where I was in between clubs.  Yesterday I had more opportunities where I just had the perfect distance.  So you know, it happens.   
But I think I played really well.  Even par as well is very good, so I still have good chances coming in the last two rounds, and that's all I care about.   
 Q.  Were you paying attention to where the leaderboard was at during the day, or is that something that you are aware of while you're out there?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: No, not really.  I wanted to do my own thing.  I can't really control what other people do, but in the morning, obviously, there are more chances of going lower than in the afternoon.   
But at the same time, I don't really like to pay a lot of attention.  I just want to focus on what I'm doing.  Now (indiscernible) a couple scores, but all I care about is I have a good chance coming into Sunday.   
 Q.  It's been a couple years since you've won.  Are you feeling like you're back maybe when you won a couple times, back to where you were then?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: Definitely.  I feel very confident, and last week, I keep repeating it, but it was very important for me because I have never felt so good in my game overall on the golf course.  So that gave me a lot of confidence.   
Yeah, I feel really good.  You'd never know what's going to happen, but I feel really good.  So I think that overall I'm very excited about this year.   
 Q.  Yesterday, even par as you mentioned.  The stats look very similar, the numbers do, to how you performed yesterday.  What was the difference today?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: Today I felt like I was a lot over the hole which made it a little more difficult to be aggressive on the putts.  Then also I felt like I had a lot of in between.  I was a lot in between distances.  Yesterday I felt like I had a lot of perfect clubs and going on to the pin.  Today I felt like I either had to like draw it a lot with shorter irons or high fades, also on it's so firm.   
But I felt like I played really well, it was just one of those days that happens.  But overall I felt like even par was the worst score that I could score today.  I felt like my game is really good, and that gives me a lot of confidence for the weekend.   
 Q.  When things like that happen early in a tournament and it's a golf course that you know very well.  What can you learn from those leads, as you say, to carry over into the weekend?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: I think be even more patient and play more on the fat side.  I think maybe a got a little anxious and I wanted to make birdies.  I felt like I was hitting fairway, greens, starting on the first few holes and it was just not dropping and maybe I forced it a little bit.   
I made a silly mistake on 17.  But I think that the key is patience.  This course can get to you.  It's easy to miss in the wrong spot and make a silly bogey.  I think the key is if you can't make birdie, make sure you two-putt for par and move on, because any round under par is going to be a very good score on this course.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT