CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 27, 2017
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BEATRIZ RECARI: Lots of progress, lots of positives.  I actually came back from a break from sickness.  I had to withdraw from the U.S. Open, and my very beloved Marathon Classic and the British Open.  So it feels really good to -- it was a bummer to have to withdraw from all those events that I really liked and wanted to play.  Took some time to recover physically.  Did some really good work in the off weeks, and, you know, lots of positives.
I would have loved to finish a little stronger, but at the same time it's definitely by far -- I don't know where I finished, but performance-wise, definitely by far the best one, so I'm very, very proud of myself.
Q. What were the injuries that you had?
BEATRIZ RECARI: Well, I had a lung infection.  Yeah, so between pneumonia and really severe bronchitis, I'm not a doctor, but I felt really bad.  So I was taking a lot of meds, so, again, it feels good to -- sometimes you don't know whether it's the right thing to not play or play.  You know, I listened to my body.  I took some time off, and it definitely paid off.  I really did some really good work in the off week, and I'm very happy with the result this week.
Q. You had a lot of good confidence and momentum moving through this last little bit of the season, I would assume?
BEATRIZ RECARI: Absolutely.  I'm really looking forward to the next few events.  I'm planning on playing Portland, Indianapolis and Evian.  So I'm definitely looking forward to those events.  I feel good.  I felt good coming in.  It feels good what your feelings are to actually get it reflected on the golf course.
Q. How would you describe the golf course up there this week?  People were saying major championship set up.
BEATRIZ RECARI: Yes, definitely.  Well, the conditions were definitely major championship.  Definitely the greens were very challenging, very fast.  You know, you had to place it on the fairways.  The rough is high and definitely a big test.
So it was -- I mean, so much variety.  Like some holes, par-4s were long, some par-3s were long, longer than we normally play on regular events.  Then we had some short holes where you could be aggressive.  At the same time, the greens were challenging.  So overall you had to think a lot, but tough course.
Q. Are you back at 100% now?
BEATRIZ RECARI: 85.  I don't feel too tired today on Sunday.  Again, I think I did the right thing.  I listened to myself, and I definitely am not taking any medication, anymore, and I'm just taking vitamins and I have the regular stuff.  No, I'm actually feeling good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT