MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 16, 2016
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BEATRIZ RECARI: Yeah, I felt really good.  On Thursday I didn't feel like -- I felt like I played really well, but I didn't make any, and then yesterday I started to make some on the back nine, and it gave me a good feeling, and today I just had great feelings, great memories on this course, and I wanted to be a little bit more aggressive and give myself some more chances so maybe have a good run on the weekend and give me a chance to -- have a chance to win the trophy tomorrow.  I did that, made some really good putts, and yeah, really good in the end, so I'm very pleased.   
 Q.  Will you take that aggressive play into tomorrow to keep going or will you sit back a little bit because you've got a great lead?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: No, I mean, I think there are great players at the top, and you always have to play your best, and I think I'm going to keep my same strategy, obviously.  I've been here and have good memories, so I kind of have a good idea of what kind of things you can go for and some that you just have to play it on the fat side.  Yeah, I think I'm going to keep it simple, do the same thing.  I feel really good, and I'm very happy to give myself a chance today, and we'll see what happens tomorrow.  But overall I feel very confident.   
 Q.  You withdrew after the first round last year.  What had happened?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: I had some personal issues.   
 Q.  But what does it mean for you to come back this year, you had a little shaky start on Thursday but to really back and have these strong rounds yesterday and today?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: Yeah, it feels good.  Like I said, I feel really confident here.  I have good memories, and I told myself to be patient.  I was playing really well, it was just a matter of making those putts, and even my caddie told me, he's like, just play this good and they'll drop eventually, and they did.  Just feeling really good.   
 Q.  Do you have a certain confidence or comfort even just walking on this course?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: Yeah, it's always great to come back to a place I've had great results, and I also came to this week where I was playing really solid, and so overall, yeah, it was -- I felt really confident and very -- I was really looking forward to coming into this week.   
 Q.  What worked best for you, what worked the most for you today?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: I know, I had a very good round, so overall I drove it really well, which is very important on this course.  I hit my irons really well.  I was able to give myself good chances for birdie, and yeah.  I made some putts.   
Overall I felt like my game really came together, very grounded, and just playing really well.   
 Q.  Weather, too, is that a factor, the overcast, the cool temperatures, not a ton of wind?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: Yeah, definitely today was a little bit different than the last two days because the wind direction was different, so it definitely played a factor.  Every hole I have an idea what pins you can be more aggressive than others and also the memories from the last two days.  You had to be really aware of wind direction, but you know, obviously it was really hot the last two days, so very nice that it was a little bit cooler.  I felt really confident out there, and yeah, feeling really good.   
 Q.  To go from withdrawing last year to setting yourself up for Sunday, you're feeling pretty good, obviously?  
BEATRIZ RECARI: Yeah, I feel great.  Like I said, I think -- 2013 I won, and before that every time I came here I finished top 10, so I obviously have great memories.  I feel very comfortable on this course, and then I came here playing really solidly.  Yeah, just really, really good overall, feel very good, and we'll see what happens tomorrow.  But you know, I gave myself a good chance, so I'm very proud for it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT