LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 17, 2014
Beatriz Recari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A couple late birdies, really good for you. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, definitely.   I played solid on the front nine and then I missed it, put it on the wrong spot on 11, that was my only bogey of the round.   But then I reacted really quick and then I made birdie right away on 13 and good 2‑putt on 14, and then a good birdie on 15. 
So definitely I gave myself some chances and finished strong, always under par on this course is great.   I'm just very pleased with my game and continuing yesterday's play, as well. 

Q.   Last couple of events, you've been playing better, maybe more than the beginning of the season.   Anything in particular is clicking? 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, I consider the U.S. Open my first tournament of the year.   I started, struggling with injuries and had to kind of redo my swing from scratch.   So you know, I consider the U.S. Open my first tournament and my goal was to qualify for these Asian events. 
I was aware that I started kind of in the middle of the season and that I had to focus so much on my long game that I kind of neglected certain parts of my game because I had to because I had no time. 
And the most important priority was my long game from my play from tee‑to‑green, so I knew I was aware that I was going to make some silly mistakes just by lack of practice really.   And lately I felt more confident.   I gave myself some time to practice my short game, practice my putting, especially because that's the one thing that I thought was letting me down, especially when I was playing‑‑ I played really well in the British Open and Grand Rapids, and I felt my putting was what was letting me down. 
I spent a lot of time in China and especially last week in Malaysia, and started seeing the results in Malaysia right away.   Just confirming to myself that all I needed was practice.   I always considered myself a good putter.   So it was just a matter of getting back to putting in the hours and seeing the putts go in and trusting my stroke. 
Last week I came back to good stats on my putting on tournament rounds and that gave me confidence towards this week, and my game was solid.   So just very happy that everything is pulling together. 

Q.   You've played here a few times; comfortable on this course?   It's been playing pretty tough. 
BEATRIZ RECARI:   Yeah, I have a good record this year in windy conditions.   You can see the British Open.   Starting yesterday, I felt confident about previous results, and every time that I have fast greens, my stats are really good.   I feel really comfortable, and like I said, getting back to the numbers that I'm usually at on greens, on putts per green from last week, that gave me confidence to trust it even more. 
So, yeah, I feel very comfortable and everything is where I want it to be and I just want to make sure that I keep it up on the weekend, and whatever happens for me, it's been a process of getting back and I'm seeing the progress and I'm seeing the results and that's all I care and I'm just really excited for the weekend.   Just keep on doing a better and better job every day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT