NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CUBS VS DODGERS
October 14, 2017
Corey Seager
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When did it become clear to you, I guess, that you just weren't going to be able to go for this series?  
COREY SEAGER: Probably yesterday.  It had been gradually getting better every day, and we were optimistic all the way up until yesterday, and basically that's kind of when we decided.   
 Q.  Can you take us through what happened on that slide, what it felt like, and how you got through the rest of the game?  
COREY SEAGER: Yeah, it was a very normal slide.  I watched it over and over again to see if I landed awkward, hit awkward.  I mean, it was extremely normal.  Felt it on the slide right away.  Really wasn't kind of sure what it was.  Puig pulled that first ball foul and took off running, and that's kind of when I realized something was wrong.   
I put a bunch of hot stuff on.  It was getting worked on between every inning.  And basically the adrenaline of the game kind of kept me in it.   
 Q.  What are your feelings about the way the back feels now and whether or not you're optimistic, if the team advances, to play in the next round?  
COREY SEAGER: Yeah, obviously, that's what we're hoping for.  It gives you a little more time.  I think next week is going to be kind of a big week to see if I can get back into baseball activities and stuff.  But right now I'm really not sure.  I'm progressing every day, which is really nice.  But I'm not really sure.   
 Q.  So even right now as you're walking, do you feel something back there, and what is it that you feel?  
COREY SEAGER: Walking has been pretty good so far.  Just a lot of tightness.  A lot of tightness, basically.  Not really mobile in the hips.  It's not really moving very well.  But it's gotten looser, gotten better.  Walking has become pretty normal now, so it's getting better, for sure.   
 Q.  Just how disappointing is this for you?  
COREY SEAGER: Yeah, this sucks, to be honest.  Obviously you try to be the best team that you can right now, try to not be a distraction.  Try to be as positive and inspirational, whatever you want to say, to help your team right now.  But just basically trying not to be a distraction right now.   
 Q.  Where exactly do you feel it, and what treatment have you gotten?  
COREY SEAGER: The bottom left.  Everything from trigger pointing, soft tissue, floating, anything to kind of decompress is basically what we've been doing right now.   
 Q.  Did you push to try to see if you could run or swing or see if they would let you do anything like that, or did you just sort of understand it wasn't realistic?  
COREY SEAGER: Yeah, it's been really no baseball sort of activities.  It's just been a lot of on the table -- I forget the word for it -- but just flat spined and all those kind of movements.  It was just unrealistic to think that I would be able to go.   
 Q.  Do you plan on traveling with the team or are you going to stay in Los Angeles?  
COREY SEAGER: No, I'm going to stay here while they're in Chicago.  I can obviously can travel, but it's just with the flights and stuff, it's not really productive at this point?   
 Q.  Do you know how much you have to kind of progress every day until you get to the next level?  
COREY SEAGER: I'm not really sure.  I think it's going to be a lot of symptomatic stuff.  If it doesn't hurt, keep going; if it does start to bother you, tone it down a little bit and reassess.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT