UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 28, 2011
Bryan Harsin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Obviously everybody talks about Baylor's offense and what they bring to the table.   What do you see out of them defensively? 
BRYAN HARSIN:   Yeah, well, I think overall just as a team, they've done a very good job and they've been very successful at home. 
Defensively they do their deal.   I think they‑‑ they'll bring some pressures and give you some different looks, but they try to‑‑ they don't do a whole lot, or they haven't throughout the year, and they're just good at what they do.   I think their guys up front play hard, and then in the secondary I think their corners, those guys match up well with some of the guys, and they played some very good passing teams with some good receivers out there.
But they kind of do their deal and try not to let you just go up and down the field, wait for you to make a mistake, and I think they're pretty opportunistic when that happens.

Q.   With the success of the two‑minute drill, does that momentum, I guess, is that good for them coming into this week?
BRYAN HARSIN:   Yeah, I guess.   We've been in that situation several times, and this one we got it done.   And so that was good.   As much time as we spend on that week to week and the scenarios that we've gone through where we haven't been successful, and those came up in this last game and we were successful this time, I think it's just kind of going back and proving that what we could have done in those other drives happened in this particular drive here.   And so that was good.   It was good from the quarterback standpoint, the wide receivers, the whole operation, coaches, everything, all working together just to get in that position and then ultimately we gave ourselves a chance to win the game. 

Q.   Does it make much of a difference taking the or off of Case McCoy or David Ashton?
BRYAN HARSIN:   They'll both play.   I think we'll play Case, and David will have his package in there, as well, and those guys will be back and forth kind of like we did in this last game.   Like we said, we've got those two guys and we're developing both of them.   We had more plans for David in this game.   The problem was we weren't converting 3rd downs.   We didn't extend our drives to get the plays that we hoped we were going to get, and so that shortened his opportunities in the game. 

Q.   Is there a lot of frustration offensively because you haven't moved the ball the way you'd like? 
BRYAN HARSIN:   Well, yeah, from the standpoint of just going back and you look at the execution and certain things, you look at stuff that we've been doing that we've been successful at in this game, maybe the same play we weren't successful.   It comes down to consistency is what it comes down to, and that would be the biggest thing that we talk about offensively is we're doing the same thing and we've done it before, we've got to be consistent.   It's got to be something we do over and over and over and over and over, and until we get to that point, that's where it gets frustrating where you're in those three‑and‑out situations, and we have the opportunity to not be in that situation, we've got to take advantage of that.

Q.   How much of a difference does it make having Jaxon back?   What does that do for you offensively?
BRYAN HARSIN:   Well, it does a lot.   Not just‑‑ obviously come game time he's a guy that you want to have on the field.   He does a lot of different things.   He's got a lot of different abilities.   But just back in practice, you know, and we talked about Shipley when he got here, just his habits, I think his mentality, the attitude he brings, it just seems to lift everybody up a little bit more when he's out there on the field. 
We all like how competitive he is and how he prepares and what he brings to the table just in that type of standpoint on the field.

Q.   Did you just having him throwing the ball for four weeks?
BRYAN HARSIN:   Yeah, we kept his arm loose, yeah, waiting to get him back there (laughing). 
That was a great play.   He's a guy, he's got a lot of different talents, and the one thing is whether he's throwing it, catching it, running it, he's a guy that‑‑ in big games will make big plays, and that's why it's important to have him out there. 

Q.   As an offensive coordinator is it ever difficult to ask your wide receivers or your backs to take a direct snap?   It seems like they always enjoy it. 
BRYAN HARSIN:   No, is it difficult for them?   No, everybody is trying to try out for quarterback and wants to do this and that, it's just a matter of picking the right guy.   You know, we have a lot of guys that have done different things in high school and have a lot of different talent, it's a matter of what fits that week, and that's the fun part, when you're able to get to that, where you can involve a lot of guys and things are flowing and you're extending drives by getting 3rd downs, you get more plays and things like that.   That's when it becomes fun, and we've got those type of guys to do that with.

Q.   It seems like any time you ask Jaxon or Cody or Fozzy about the wild formations they'd always get a big smile on their face. 
BRYAN HARSIN:   Well, they know they're going to get the ball.   That's a guarantee, the ball is going to be in their hand, somehow, some way.   Those guys and their mentality is they want to have that opportunity.

Q.   Do you see it also gives them a little bit more sympathy toward the quarterback position?
BRYAN HARSIN:   No, I don't think so, not unless they're able to drop back there and maybe take a blind shot or something like that, but they usually don't get to do that.   I think they do their deal, and the quarterbacks are on your own.   You've got to take care of your job, too.

Q.   So it's not walking a mile in their shoes, it's walking an inch and a half?
BRYAN HARSIN:   No, not at all. 

Q.   Anything in particular you need to try to get Malcolm doing again?
BRYAN HARSIN:   Yeah, I think kind of what we've been doing.   We've got to be more effective with what we're doing.   We want to get the ball in his hands, we want to get him inside on the perimeter.   We're trying different ways to get him rolling, but it's not just‑‑ it's not Malcolm, it's everybody on the field.   So it comes back to that consistency of doing what we've been doing and guys doing their jobs and helping him out from that standpoint. 

Q.   You mentioned after the game you thought Case managed the game well.   I know Greg McElroy took a lot of heat for being called a game manager.   Is that what you have to do with Case right now?   You talk so much about turnovers and not turning the ball over.   Is that what he needs to be right now is a game manager?
BRYAN HARSIN:   Here's my thought on the quarterback position, and it was no different with Kellen, and Kellen was a great football player and has done a lot of great things, but it was no different for him starting out, just go out there and manage the game, and here's the things you need to do:   Don't turn the ball over; make sure we get the ball to the playmakers; go through your progression; if the first read is there, take it; don't try to do any more than you're asked to do.   And if you'll do those things, then eventually you're going to be asked to make bigger and more and better plays. 
And like in Case's situation, he managed well out there, and then all of a sudden that opportunity for him to run presented itself, and I think those are the type of plays by just managing the game you're going to get and you're going to be asked to now go out there and try to win the game for us. 
Just like anybody else on offense, they just need to do their job.   First read is open, take it.   If it's not there, throw it away.   Make good decisions, don't put us in a bad situation, and by doing that you're helping yourself out ultimately because defenses are going to say this guy is smart, he's not going to hurt himself, they're going to be a little bit more risky and then the opportunity presents itself and you get a big play out of it.

Q.   Has that been frustrating this year trying to develop this offense and the amount of turnovers that you just never could develop that consistency?
BRYAN HARSIN:   Yeah, we've juggled those guys around.   It is what it is, that's just part of the deal right now, and I think those guys have done a great job with it. 
But that's going to be part of the consistency that needs to improve in that area there with everybody else, and when we can do that and we can get some games like this last game where we managed it well, when you do a better job on 3rd downs, a better job on converting and things like that, once we can get that improved, then I think the rest of it is going to take off. 

Q.   Mike Davis, has he lost confidence?   It just seems like he's maybe dropped balls that he didn't drop last year and I'm assuming doesn't drop in practice. 
BRYAN HARSIN:   Yeah, you know, I don't know if it's confidence.   It's consistency, again.   I keep using that, but that's really what it is, because no, I mean, those guys in practice, they make plays in practice, and that needs to carry over into the game, and that's for everybody on offense. 
That's the thing about offensive football.   You can have ten guys all doing their job and one guy doesn't and the play is not effective and it makes it all look bad.   It's all 11 guys being on the same page, doing their job, focused, and if we do that, I think we'll be okay.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT