UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2011
Bryan Harsin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. After Saturday, what are your reflections, and where do you go from here? 
 COACH HARSIN: Well, if we go back to what we've been doing, we go back to practicing hard, go back to our process that we've been talking about since we got here in the spring, and that's what you do. You look at that film and you look at what were some of the things that we could have done better in that game. What were some of the little details that showed up there. And that's what we continue to talk about each and every week. There's one or two things each and every day, and that's what we've got to get corrected in practice and just go back to focusing on those details and learn from this game and get back to work.

 Q. Is it discouraging that this far in the season the passing game hasn't developed more than it has?
 COACH HARSIN: It's going to come when it comes. 

 Q. In practice do you see things that make you think it is coming maybe that aren't showing up --
 COACH HARSIN: Absolutely. I don't think we'd do it if we didn't see it in practice. It has come along from that standpoint, and that's something that we've just got to make sure it's happening come game time.

 Q. Talk about the shots you took vertically. Seemed like you took a lot more vertical shots. 
 COACH HARSIN: Yeah, well, that was part of just what we were getting as far as eight-man front and guys in the box and one-on-one match-ups outside. Those are opportunities now that we're trying to hit some big plays, get some big chunks. That's what we need to do to try to swap field position. You know, that won't change. We've got to connect on those. We've got to do a better job with the timing and all those things, just from the quarterback standpoint. But those will come, and we'll continue to try to emphasize those.

 Q. Is that just a matter of repetition in practice and trying to find --
 COACH HARSIN: Yeah, yeah. There's a lot of factors that go into that. You're not just dropping back in the game and setting up and everything is perfect and guys aren't moving and you don't have anybody in your face. I mean, there's a lot of different factors that go into it. If we're playing seven on seven, I feel like you can just drop back and get that done, but it's a different game. So there's a lot of different things that come up that from the quarterback position you've got to learn from and maneuver around and still throw on time and be able to do that in those type of situations. 

 Q. Besides the emotional part of losing Fozzy's leadership and that kind of --
 COACH HARSIN: Right.

 Q. How much changes with what you have to do because he could do so many different things for you offensively? 
 COACH HARSIN: Well, yeah, obviously the number one thing is his leadership, is him being on the field and being part of our team. You know, that hurts, and he's done a lot for us from that standpoint, and obviously he's been very productive out there on the field.
 We're going to have to do some different things, maybe a little bit differently. We'll find somebody that's going to fill his role, and that's part of football now. Everybody -- there's going to be dings and things like that that happen, and guys that are backups need to step up and fill the roles. So we'll continue to have those packages in there, but the biggest thing is we're still having Fozzy out there, he's going to be helping us, he's going to be talking to those guys, being a part of the team and still provide the leadership that we need from him.

 Q. Is Jeremy the best option at the wildcat?
 COACH HARSIN: Well, they've all done it, yeah. They've all done it. I think naturally you would think that would be the progression, that you would just fill him in there. But Joe and Malcolm and all those guys have done it and taken reps on it. 

 Q. How bad do you need Joe and Malcolm back now that Fozzy is gone?
 COACH HARSIN: Well, we'd like to get all our guys that are dinged up back. You know, that's part of football. Those things happen. We're trying to get as many guys back as soon as we can, and we'll see what happens from there.

 Q. How crazy was that? We understood that Malcolm looked good in practice and you were thinking you'd have him and then at game time he wasn't in the game plan?
 COACH HARSIN: Yeah, you know, that's just kind of one of those things come game time that happens. You plan for it, you prepare for it, and go from there.

 Q. I assume you're not expecting the Kansas State team that gave up 50 points last week? 
 COACH HARSIN: No, no. I've seen a lot of Kansas State through our film this year, and I think those guys, they do a very good job. I like the way their kids play. They play hard. They play physical. They're very well coached. You know, I know that those guys are going to come in here and battle, and they've played in a lot of tough games. They've played some very good opponents. They've played them very tough. It's going to be a dogfight from that standpoint, and we have prepare for come in and play our very best for four quarters.

 Q. A lot is made of your offense because it is unique looking as far as the personnel, but what do you see in their defense?
 COACH HARSIN: Well, I see a lot of athletic players out there that play very hard. You know, I think they're maximizing their ability, they're flying around and they're doing it consistently through each and every quarter when you watch the games. They're just -- they're a team that continues to play all four quarters and they play hard, and they're good at what they do on defense. They play a lot of guys in there, too. They'll rotate quite a few guys in and out, so they've got depth from that standpoint.
 You know, it's a good structure the way the kids play, having depth. There's a lot of good things you see from their defensive side.

 Q. The defensive players of Texas talked about how physical they'll have to play. Is their defense as physical as their offense is?
 COACH HARSIN: Oh, yeah, the entire team. They're a physical football team. They're physical on offense and defense. That's their mentality, that's their nature, and you've got to be able to match that intensity.

 Q. We talked a little Saturday about trying to get the spark when you brought in Case. Was the decision to go back to David because --
 COACH HARSIN: Yeah, really, neither one had had the impact in there that -- so we were trying to get that from either one of the guys and didn't quite get that. We made the change and tried to go back and see if we couldn't get something going there. It was still a tight ballgame and we needed just a couple scores from that standpoint, and that's what you've got to have. It's not just the quarterback position; it's other positions when you have depth there to try to get somebody in there that's going to get an explosive play for you and get the thing going. 

 Q. I know obviously you don't use injuries as an excuse, but when you're down potentially three running backs and receivers, does there come a point where you have to adjust what you do, or do you just continue to stick with your philosophy --
 COACH HARSIN: You've got to stick with your philosophy. You can only adjust so much with what you're doing because the other thing is is those guys that are filling in those roles that were backups are also taking those same reps throughout the week. It's not like they hadn't taken the reps or they hadn't been in those situations in practice or in some scenarios in the games towards the end and things like that. You go into that prepared from the standpoint that these might -- these players may or may not be able to go, and that's what your game plan is based off. So that has nothing to do with the outcome of the game. It's -- you want to have those guys back, but that has nothing to do with that. 

 Q. What kind of blow was it when Fozzy went down? I mean, did you feel the air sucked out of the sidelines? Did you get that sense, that it was just hard to recover from that? 
 COACH HARSIN: Yeah, I think right there initially. Anytime somebody on your team gets hurt and they go down and trainers are out there and they're not getting up right away, you're always concerned about that. Obviously we're all -- we know how good we feel about Fozzy and what he's done for us. 
 But that's part of football. You know, that's something that when everybody plays and you strap on that helmet, you assume there could be some injury and some risk from that standpoint, and so that's nothing new, and guys have to get back on the field and go play.
 And I thought we did that. I thought our mentality was right after that happened to go back out there and play. That's a hard blow now for the football team, but during the game you've got to get back out there and go do your job.

 Q. What has he meant to this program? 
 COACH HARSIN: Well, yeah, I wish I had more time with him. That's the one thing. In just a short period of time he's done so much you can see for our team, for our young players on our team, for us as coaches. He's kind of the total -- he's the total package from that standpoint as far as just the type of player you want with the toughness, smart, a guy that will go out there and practice hard and just gives you everything he's got.
 You know, when you lose that, not just from the game standpoint, I mean, just from everything else, how you prepare and things like that, I mean, that's big. Obviously for Fozzy, as well, it's hard in his situation right now. But he's a guy that even in this situation has great spirits, is going to continue to be a part of what we're doing and help those guys out. 

 Q. Did you see what you'd want to see from David yesterday in practice or whatever he was doing Sunday that he wants to learn from that rather than being discouraged? 
 COACH HARSIN: Yeah, you know, the one thing about him, that's all we can do at this point is learn from it. After a loss like that, you come back, and these guys care tremendously about going out there and playing well, and so that's not a concern. What you want to do is teach them, especially at that position, here's what happened, here's how we can get better, here were some scenarios in the game that will come up again, what should we do next time, and he's all about -- he's all ears. He wants to learn. He wants to understand why he gets frustrated like anybody else as a player.
 I think he takes that energy out on the field there and turns it into a positive, and I thought he practiced well yesterday. I expect him to be practicing well this week, and he's excited to get back today and start preparing for this game.
 So his mentality is right, and he is -- he's on the right track as far as learning from some of those mistakes, and each and every game we've had him, and he continues to improve and learn, and that's part of the process. 

 Q. Coach Brown said he came in here and he's on the of the AFCA rules committee apparently and he's advocating maybe going up to the booth to check on replays. There was a holding penalty or a spearing penalty. Would you be in favor of that? 
 COACH HARSIN: That the head coach goes up to check it out? 

 Q. That the booth reviews on certain plays -- expands instant replay. 
 COACH HARSIN: Of all the plays? I don't know. I mean, there's -- I don't even know how many there are that they can review right now. The rules have changed so much. 
 But yeah, I mean, that's part of the game. That's part of the game, and that's up to the officials and what they decide and what's reviewable and things like that because there's obviously a time frame within a game that you've got to get it over with in a certain time. That's up to the officials. 

 Q. And this is your first senior day here. Have guys like Cody, Fozzy, Blaine embraced you, and has it been a good experience with this senior class?
 COACH HARSIN: It has been good. All these guys have been good, and I think they've embraced just the entire change and what's happened, from both sides of the ball and all those things. They've been very good. They've been very coachable, and their attitudes have been positive, and when it's been really, really good and it's been really, really bad I think they've been consistent, they've been positive. 
 So I've had a lot of respect for these seniors and what they've gone through. Obviously they've been very successful, and I think they've been very good this year, as well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT