PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: PENN STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 28, 2017
Trace McSorley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. (Indiscernible) what do you see as role here?  You've done well (inaudible)?
TRACE MCSORLEY: For me, how I see my role is I'm coming in, knowing the ins and outside of what we're doing from a game plan perspective, knowing why we want to run the ball versus a certain look, who we're trying to put in a bind based off of leverage and number, and being able to execute our game plan from a run-game perspective, and then from a passing-game being able to change up our protection, make sure we're protected up and we're not short on the pressure or short on anything like that.  And then being able to react to defenses and know where we're trying to go with the ball versus certain coverages.
And for me it's not really trying to force the ball down the field; it's getting the ball in playmakers hands where they're in open space, and they're able to do something with it after that.
Q. (Indiscernible)  Their defensive line is considered one of the best in college football, and they stop the run well.  How does that impact your game plan (indiscernible)?
TRACE MCSORLEY: For us, it's going to be kind of doing some things in the run game that allows us to maybe get the ball in the edge based off how certain guys play or being able to take advantage of numbers and angles advantage, things like that.  They are extremely good up front, so it's been a difficult challenge for us, trying to put ourselves in what we feel is the best opportunity to be successful in the run game.
But they are going to be -- they're tough up front and it's going to be a mentality thing.  When we come out of offense with our offensive line, and kind of our mentality on offense is being able to say these guys are really good, but we're going to have to change our mindset a little bit to have to grind out some tough running yardage.
Q. (Inaudible)?
TRACE MCSORLEY: I think it's able to impact games in a couple of different ways.  One in the run game being able to add a dimension, as far as being able to put the ball in our running back's stomach and possibly being able to pull it and run.  And make the defense account for that, so they can't all jump at the running backs and just go right at our running game, being able to keep the defense honest.
And the passing game, being able to scramble, give a little bit of extra time for our receivers to get open or if everyone's coming up, being able to turn a negative play into a positive play.
Q. If you run you just run (indiscernible)?
TRACE MCSORLEY: It's situational.  Third down, get the first down.  That's your mindset.  But once you get the first down, if you don't need to take an unnecessary hit, get out of bounds or slide and preserve yourself.  That's obviously something that we want to do.
Q. (Question about McSorley's relationship with Jake Browning.)
TRACE MCSORLEY: We both did the Uplifting Athletes thing in Chicago.  They actually had us rooming together, so we were roommates for that trip.  We would hang out, got to know each other a little bit, check out Chicago.  It was a good time, really enjoyed it from then on.  We've been staying in touch a little bit.
Being able to watch him every time, being able to catch a Washington game on TV.  Check him out.  He's obviously one of the top passers in the country, a guy that's a big threat to our defense.  And I know they've put a big emphasis on being able to contain him.  But just had a good time with him in Chicago and just being able to kind of stay in touch with him from there.
Q. Kind of funny how it's turned out where your teams were then and where they are now. (Indiscernible)
TRACE MCSORLEY: You never really do know.  At that point I hadn't been named starting quarterback yet.  He just finished up his first year.  And these last two years they went to playoffs last year and now we're playing each other in the Fiesta Bowl.  To see where our team's have come the last two years it's pretty cool.
Q. Did he strike you in any particular way?  Did anything stand out about that weekend together?
TRACE MCSORLEY: Not really.  I mean talking to him you could tell he's kind of all-business kind of guy.  He's dedicated to football.  That's what he wants to be successful at.  And he's going to do what he can to be the best that he can be.  And I think that's something that we're both alike in that way.
Q. Doing anything fun outside the area?
TRACE MCSORLEY: When we first got here we had some free time, go out check out Scottsdale and some of the things that it has to offer around here.  And then the last couple of days we went to the Fogo de Chao restaurant and had a good time there.  And last night we had Topgolf.  That was fun.  It's been an awesome experience so far.  Definitely enjoying it.
Q. What do you think of the area in general?  (Indiscernible)?
TRACE MCSORLEY: It's awesome.  Being out here in 70-degree weather, sunny, can't really ask for much more than that.  Personally, I kind of like how it always smells like really good Mexican food.  I love tacos and Mexican food.  I love that.
Q. What is it about this (indiscernible) that makes you guys click so well and be so successful?
TRACE MCSORLEY: First off, I'd probably say it's our chemistry.  How we are off the field.  These are guys here, I mean best friends between DaeSean and Mike, Jason, Saeed, me and Saquon, the list goes on and on.  Just our chemistry and continuity off the field, I think, really helps us on the field.
We're that much more comfortable with each other on the field.  We know where guys are going to be at and how they're going to run a route or go through the mesh or whatever it might be.  Just our chemistry off the field it helps us huge on the field.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT