ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 29, 2010
Kendall Smith
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Do you feel it gives your defense any added experience having faced off against a quarterback like Russell Wilson when taking on a game-changing quarterback again like Tyrod Taylor this weekend? 
 KENDALL SMITH: Yeah, well, in the middle of the season we played against Russell Wilson and he's a very good dual threat quarterback, and Tyrod Taylor, he's definitely a great dual quarterback, and he definitely gives teams problems with his legs and whatnot. By us already having that experience early in the season, we can game plan around playing Tyrod and try to keep him in the box. 

 Q. Virginia Tech has sort of owned this league since they came in in '04, winning 46 out of 56 games in regular season play. Do you guys feel like this is a shot to sort of put Florida State back on the map? I know you're coming off a big win over Florida, finished strong, but could this thrust you back on the map do you feel like? 
 KENDALL SMITH: Yeah, this game right here could definitely -- is definitely going to determine whether or not they put us back up in the spotlight of taking over the ACC. In the past Florida State was very successful with taking over the ACC, and by us going against Virginia Tech, which has been very successful in the ACC in the past four to five years, we've definitely got a chance to -- this is going to help with recruiting, with everything. This is going to show the world that, okay, if we win this game at Florida State, we're back on the path and whatnot. 

 Q. Coach Fisher was talking yesterday about the way Christian Ponder has led this team just in terms of leading by example with his work ethic. What are some examples of the way that his work habits have kind of set an example for you and the other teammates? 
 KENDALL SMITH: Oh, definitely the way he works and the way that all the other seniors work on the team, just to lead by example and do what you've got to do, do your job within the classroom and on the field, that definitely influenced a lot of us and our teammates, especially with our team being a very young team. So by him leading us and showing us what we need to do and all the seniors are doing the same thing, it definitely worked out for the best. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT