RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2008
Yuri Fudoh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   COLIN CALLANDER: We have Yuri Fudoh in the interview area. She has scored a 69 for a three-round total of 13-under, 203, and leads this championship going into the last round.   
 First and foremost, Yuri, how do you feel about the round out there today?   
 YURI FUDOH: I could play without any pressure today, compared with the last two days.   
 COLIN CALLANDER: Why was there less pressure today compared to the last two days?   
 YURI FUDOH: A few things, first thing is I followed my caddie's advice, and the second thing is I've done everything that I can do. So I think that the golf will take care of itself, that's why I could play without pressure.   
 COLIN CALLANDER: Do you think you will feel the same tomorrow when you're in the last round?   
 YURI FUDOH: Right now, I don't know if I will feel the same or not. I hope that I can do that and play just like today.   
  
  Q. I'm just curious why you never decided to come play in the United States on the LPGA since you have so much success in Japan.   
 YURI FUDOH: I don't think I have enough power to play on the LPGA, like physical condition. I don't think that I have enough condition, so that's why.   
  
  Q. How important has Peter Coleman, your caddie, been this week?   
 YURI FUDOH: He has helped on distance and I think 50 per cent of what I have done is because of the caddie.   
  
  Q. How do you communicate, if he doesn't speak Japanese and you don't speak English?   
 YURI FUDOH: He can speak very fluent Japanese -- joking.   
 He speaks very slowly and his English is quite easy to understand for me.   
  
  Q. Your shots seem stable, what do you think about that?   
 YURI FUDOH: The driver goes a little left and right, so I can keep scoring lower scores because of my good iron shots.   
 COLIN CALLANDER: Could we get the details of the birdies and the bogeys? How did you get 4 on the first hole?   
 YURI FUDOH: 1st hole - Sand wedge, 50 yards shot and three-foot putt.   
 7, second shot 8-iron and 5-foot putt.   
 9, 70-yard sand wedge shot and 3-foot putt.   
 11, sand wedge from the collar and 3-foot putt.   
 17, 60-yard sand shot and 10-foot putt.   
  
  Q. Any special preparation for this tournament?  
 YURI FUDOH: Nothing special but I practise every day.   
  
  Q. How famous are you in Japan, and who is the most famous golfer now in Japan, you or Ai Miyazato, who would you say?   
 YURI FUDOH: Torakichi Nakamura, she's very famous, and she's been the most famous player in women's golf in Japan for like ten years, but I should be almost the same level now.   
  
  Q. And if I went to Japan, where would I see her? Would I see her on the billboards or anything?   
 YURI FUDOH: Tough question. If you see the tournament posters, she's always on the posters.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT