PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE VS CLEMSON
December 27, 2016
Pat Elflein
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAT ELFLEIN: So it's just a matter of are you ready when you got your opportunity; and, yes, these guys are ready.  So they just learn from their previous players that were there in front of them, do a great job of doing teaching the younger guys the ropes and how to act and how to play.  So I think that's a credit to the older players that were in front of these guys and just the whole program in general.   
 Q.  How has playing Oklahoma, the team up north, Wisconsin, playing in these big games, these overtimes, these pressure games, how has that helped prepare for this type of atmosphere and this type of game and for you and the entire team?  
PAT ELFLEIN: Just the fact that all those previous games that you just mentioned were prime time games, game day, at night and big-time environments.  That's going to help us.   
So know these experiences, pressure situations, it's all going to come into play in this game, because I'm sure there's going to be situations, games that are high pressure, it's going to be loud and hostile.  So using those to help us get through that.   
 Q.  One of the things that you had in all those places was Buckeye Nation.  They've always showed up.  They're really comfortable here.  Coach Meyer talked about them yesterday when you got off the plane.  What are you hoping for from Buckeye Nation to show up here in the Valley of the Sun and give you guys that little extra support?  
PAT ELFLEIN: Oh, I know Buckeye Nation is going to be here.  They're going to be here full force.  They're going to be here supporting us.  They always do.  Wherever we go.  California.  Wisconsin.  Texas.  New Orleans.  Wherever we go, Buckeye Nation is there full force.  So I expect that they'll be here again.   
 Q.  It was about this time last year, you announced you'd come back, had a kind of checklist, beating Michigan.  You've done everything.  Where does the national championship fit into the script when you decided to come back?  
PAT ELFLEIN: That's all part of the plan.  So a few of those things you mentioned were personal goals.  And obviously you have team goals which is win Big Ten, College Football Playoff, and National Championship.  So I think it's worked out pretty good so far.   
 Q.  What have you seen about Clemson?  
PAT ELFLEIN: They're big.  They're explosive.  Talented.  Really talented players across the board, all of them.  So they're a big, physical group.   
 Q.  What about the linebackers, they don't get a lot of the credit in terms of the media, but they're a big part of the pass rush (indiscernible)?  
PAT ELFLEIN: Yeah, they're a complete defense.  They have players everywhere.  No. 10's pretty good.  So I mean they're a complete defense.  And that's what makes them great.   
 Q.  Has there been something with bowl practice that Urban has pounded into your heads, the team, saying that it's something that you've keyed in on the last month?  
PAT ELFLEIN: It's been a countdown of how many days we have until the game, and it really puts into perspective how quick it goes and how crucial each practice is.   
 Q.  Obviously the goal's to score points.  When you face a team like Clemson, essentially every game this year piling on a bunch.  Is there extra motivation to know you guys have to convert touchdowns and make field goals?  
PAT ELFLEIN: Yeah, we know this team scores points.  We have to do our job on offense to make sure we score and put our defense in a good position to help us win the game.  So, yeah, you take that into account.   
 Q.  Take us through your acting performance for Elflein, what was the motivation; do you have an agent?  
PAT ELFLEIN: Well, we have a creative team that puts all that together.  So it was their idea around Christmastime.  So we were in the holiday spirit.   
And Elflein on the Shelf worked out good.  Got an elf costume and had to get Wild Bill over there to be my partner.   
 Q.  How about his acting?  
PAT ELFLEIN: I think it was good, but there's room for -- some room for improvement.  There's room for improvement.   
 Q.  You mentioned when we were back in Columbus that when you found out he was an All-American, he went into Bill Mode.  Could you define what Bill Mode actually is?  
PAT ELFLEIN: Oh, man.  It's hard to define what Bill Mode is.  It's more of like a visual.  I'm sure you guys have seen Bill get into Bill Mode before.  And I'm sure you'll see a lot of Bill Mode during the game.   
 Q.  It's just a very excitable version of just his normal self?  
PAT ELFLEIN: Yeah.  He turns up a notch, yeah.  Bill, Wild Bill.   
 Q.  I asked Curtis this (indiscernible).  What has been put into the game plan from the start of the game plan, do you like the game plan?  I know there will be changes, what you need for who Ohio State is, but do you like the game plan, what you've seen so far?  
PAT ELFLEIN: Yeah, I think our coaches do a great job and put us in the best position they can to help us win the game.  And they put a lot of time into it.   
And every player has to really invest and buy into the game plan.  So, yeah, I think we all like it.   
 Q.  When you talk about the pressure that players feel when they go into a big game.  Some people really embrace that.  You as an offensive line, do you feel like you're going to put this on your shoulders a little bit?  
PAT ELFLEIN: Yeah, you have to as an offensive lineman.  You win games by controlling the front, controlling the trenches.   
And if it's running the ball, if it's passing, whatever it may be, you win the game.  You get momentum, get confidence, if you control the line of scrimmage.  So, yeah, we know we have to do that.   
 Q.  Do you all look at the season, the product, the 12 games you played as a group, two All-Americans in the group, have second-team All-Defense, a pretty accomplished group.  Do you all look at the group as where you want to be, or were you somewhat disappointed?  
PAT ELFLEIN: I mean, yeah, you always look at the group of where you want to be.  Obviously some individuals got some big accolades, which is pretty cool, and good for them.   
But, yeah, you want to look, when you evaluate offensive line, you look at it as a whole how they do together.   
We had some growing pains at points, but I think overall we've had a good season.   
 Q.  Coach Meyer, you've been around him now in big games, you've been around him for years.  Is he taking the same approach?  Is he still that -- I know you guys had some fun in practice and stuff like that.  But the approach that he takes for games like this?  
PAT ELFLEIN: I think this is when Coach Meyer is at his best, in games like this.  So then we have some fun, too.   
You have to have that, because if you're locked in all the time like that, it's not good for you to be like that and be so tense.   
You have to be able to relax a little bit and enjoy your teammates.  So we do a little bit of both of that.  When it comes time to lock in and go hard, that's what we do too.   
He always says that's a sign of a good team to be able to lock in and being able to relax a little bit.  So we did that this bowl prep, and it was successful.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT