HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2007
Meaghan Francella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN:  Meaghan, thanks for coming in.  A disappointing loss, can you just take us through the day and what it was like for you out there today? 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  Yeah, you know, Maria played so well.  She didn't make any mistakes and she made some putts when she needed to. 
 I really couldn't get my putter going this afternoon, so you know, I tried my best and unfortunately I didn't come out on top.  But I had a great experience this week and you know, I'm going in with some confidence for the next two weeks. 

 Q.  I know you still had three matches to go but at any point after your match with Pat did you allow yourself to think about winning this thing? 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  Yeah, I think so.  I was thinking about it last night.  You know, it's hard, you can't get ahead of yourself; but at the same time, it's normal to think about winning, because that's the goal. 
 But I knew Maria is very tough, and I mean, she's got a great match-play record.  She's just solid.  She's got a lot of experience, and she's played great. 

 Q.  The other part is, correct me if I'm wrong, but it seemed like both against Lorena and Pat, you seemed to wear them down by being more consistent and allowing them to make some mistakes, and when you started to make some mistakes that that force you out of that game plan or away from that? 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  Yeah, the game plan was fairways and greens, and I think you know, I hit the fairways but didn't hit -- I mean, I hit the greens, but I put myself in some tough positions.  Look where I was on 13; you can't 2-putt from there.  I mean, you can, but it's almost impossible to stop it. 
 I've never gotten mad out there, which I could have probably gotten really mad at one point, but you know, I did my best.  You know, I tried.  I tried as hard as I could.  It just backfired, I think. 

 Q.  Last year in the quarterfinals, eight players, six of the Top-10 seeds.  This year, only one Top-10 seed out of the eight players.  Do you think the change to this course has anything to do with that, or is it just the format of match play? 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  I just think match play, anything can happen. 
 This is a tough golf course.  So you've got to put the ball in the right position on the greens, and everybody left is, you know, Mi Hyun Kim is the top seed left I think, and she hits the ball straighter than anybody out here and she is probably one of the best putters on Tour. 
 So I don't think this course favors, you know, anybody over, you know, Hamilton Farms did.  Just the person who makes enough putts is going to win. 

 Q.  It looked like you maybe had a laugh at the last lie you had, kind of dark humor? 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  It just kind of goes to show you how my day went.  I couldn't hit an 8-iron from my yardage and I gripped down on a 7, just pulled it a little bit.  I mean, that lie was -- I had no chance.  I mean, I actually hit a decent shot.  Yeah, I think it was just like one of those things where it's like, oh, okay. 

 Q.  Do you think the tournament officials would like you to bring your gallery back tomorrow? 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  Yeah, I don't know.  I don't think they are going to come tomorrow.  They are going to be tired from walking 36 today. 

 Q.  Can you just reflect on that, just the experience of playing here and playing well here; when you have some time to think about it, what will stand out from this week? 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  I can't believe how many people came out.  You know, a lot of people came to Sybase when it was here, but I mean, never this many people.  It just goes to show you how much support Port Chester has given me.  It's just been incredible.  They have been -- everybody, I've seen people I haven't seen in years this week.  I'm just thankful for the support I have and my parents were out this week, which is great. 
 You know, we just -- we had a fun week.  Lindsey Wright stayed with us and we both played well.  It was just a great boost for next week. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  All right, Meaghan, thanks for coming in. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT