HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2007
Meaghan Francella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN:  We have Meaghan Francella, the hometown girl here.  Just talk about what it's like to be playing in your hometown and how has the he representation season about so far. 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  Yeah, it's been good.  I think a lot of people are planning on coming out this week.  It's just going to be an exciting week.  I've been looking forward to this the whole season and just glad I was able to get into this event with the start of my season.  So, pretty excited. 

 Q.  What can you tell us about your rib and your oblique muscle? 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  Yeah, I had no pain for the last ten days, and yesterday I think I might have overdone it.  I didn't take any days off after Toledo.  So it's a little sore.  But I think the cortisone is wearing off.  I think it will be all right. 

 Q.  Have you done a lot of match play and what do you think of match play in general? 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  Well, a lot of our amateur golf was match play.  So we did --  I'm familiar with it.  I just haven't played it in a long time, probably in like three or four years. 
 I think it's exciting.  I think, you know, to look at some of the matches, there could be some upsets tomorrow.  Anything can happen.  So I think it's a good format, and I think it's just going to be a really exciting week. 

 Q.  Do you play differently; do you have to play the game differently?  Somebody earlier said that golf is golf, but do you do things differently in match play than you would in stroke play? 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  I think, you know, obviously if you see your opponent hit it in the trees, you're not going to -- you're going to try and place it in the fairway and play conservative. 
 I think, you know, you have to be aggressive to an extent, and I think that's -- you know, I'm used to playing pretty conservative.  I don't go for a lot of tucked pins.  But in match play, if your opponent is in there close, you've got to go for it.  I think it's good, you get to be aggressive and you get to play a different kind of game maybe you're not used to which could be good. 

 Q.  You're obviously familiar with this course.  Compare the old version of this course to the new version of this course and how that sets up for your game. 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  I think the routing is kind of different.  I think it's better.  You know, like I said before, I think it's a really good match-play course. 
 Before they took -- they had a lot more trees.  They knocked down a lot of trees for the changes.  I was playing my practice round yesterday and I got to a ball and I told my caddie, "I'm going to hit it right there." 
And he said, "No, you've got to hit it more left." 
 I said, "No, there's a huge tree over there." 
 So I think it let's you be -- it's a little bit more forgiving maybe, but the greens, I'm sure the greens are going to be fast.  Mike always speeds them up. 

 Q.  Just curious about your opinion on this.  You beat Annika in a playoff earlier this year and at that point she was the No. 1 player in the world.  You're in a position where you beat her, so you probably want to think of her as the best player; is she the No. 1 player in golf when she's healthy or do you look at Lorena as the No. 1 player in the world? 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  I think we have two No. 1s. When Lorena is on, she's on, she's No. 1.  And when Annika is healthy, she's obviously No. 1. 
 So I think women's golf is in a good position where we have two unbelievable players right now, and I can't pick one over the other.  So I think they are both great.  Obviously when Annika is healthy, she's unbelievable and Lorena is unbelievable.  So I really can't pick one. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Have you allowed yourself to think about what it would be like to win here, an LPGA event? 
 MEAGHAN FRANCELLA:  Yeah, I think it would be pretty cool, hometown.  Obviously I looked at the brackets and when I win tomorrow and if Lorena wins tomorrow, I'll be playing here in the second round.  So a lot of rounds to be played and you have to take it one match at a time. 
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Meaghan, thanks for coming in and good luck. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT