BARBASOL CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2018
Troy Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Troy, 3-under par, 69.  Seemed like you were grinding out there today.  Comment on the round if you can.
TROY MERRITT: Our group was kind of stuck in neutral.  On this golf course when you have three guys playing well, neutral is a few under par.
None of us got really much to go on the greens.  I think Billy even might have (indiscernible) three-putt today.  I didn't make the putts that I've made the last couple days, and Cam didn't really putt well either.  We all hit it just fine.  I was a little bit sideways with a couple tee shots.  But still only missed three greens and had a lot of looks; ut didn't get much to go in.
Q. With that, tied for the lead.  Four players up there right now.  Just comment on the final round.
TROY MERRITT: Yeah, you know, when you're got a birdie fest sometimes it's hard to maintain that lead, especially when you've got guys five, six, seven shots back that can go out and shoot 8- or 9-under.
That might be the case again tomorrow.  We are going to have to go out and work really hard not to give anything away and try to put up five or six birdies, because it could take a 65 to win tomorrow.
Q. We got a logjam in a hurry.  You guys just started coming down 17 and 18 just knocking it out.
TROY MERRITT: Yeah, I mean, I was just saying a little bit earlier that this is the kind of golf course that when it's birdie fest that guys from five, six, seven shots back can put up a good round, 8-, 9-under par, and get right in the mix in a hurry.
Kind of one of those courses where it's a little bit tougher to hold that lead because it keeps so many guys in the mix.  So tomorrow, I mean, yeah, four-way tie for the lead.  Got a lot of guys a shot or two back.  I mean, it might take 7-under par from one of the leaders to have a chance to win.
Just have to see what the weather does and how many guys are making birdies and try to keep up.
Q. Even when you're in the lead like that and there are so many that in contention, does that take pressure off you because you know there is just so much golf to play?
TROY MERRITT: You still have to do your best to freewheel it, you know, keep the tension out of the arms, make good solid golf swings.  Put the ball in play in the fairway.  Give yourself a lot of birdie looks.
Keep the tension out of the arms.  When you putt, you get tight and you're not going to make many putts.  That'll be the key tomorrow.  Everybody out here can hit the ball well.  It's just going to makes the most putts tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT