ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2018
Brendon de Jonge
Troy Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I don't know what the game plan was, Brendon, but I would say you executed it about as well as you wanted to today.
BRENDON DeJONGE: Yeah, you know, it's hard to mess up when your partner is birdieing every hole.  It was fun.  Troy played great today, and was it fun to ride his coattails.
Q. I know you guys are looking for a little bit of form at this stage.  We've been asking this question a lot.  We've seen a lot of guys that have been able to partner up and find something in this format.  Troy, what's been the key to success with this guy?
TROY MERRITT: Well, it's just like every other week on the TOUR in the fact that just because you've played poorly or subpar coming into a week, doesn't mean you're going to play in way this week.  Especially this week when the format is different; you can rely on your partner; have a few laughs; have some positive mindset and maybe not think about golf so much.
Just go out there and play naturally like we have our entire lives.  I think that's why you see guys maybe not in the greatest of form come in and actually play well this week.
Q. We switch it back over to foursomes tomorrow.  You've done it once.  It's kind of interesting way to play down the stretch.  Going to be some nerve wracking times out there.  What do you take from yesterday into tomorrow?
BRENDON DeJONGE: We actually played pretty good down the stretch.  We got off to a terrible start.
You know, I think we'll try and take that into tomorrow.  I think probably I would imagine stay with the same holes so we're a little more familiar with that as well.
Q. Troy, how do you see this golf course developing?  I thought it was really starting to firm up out there.  It was getting bouncy late in that round.  Going into tomorrow, no rain forecasted, a little bit of winds maybe.  How has this golf course changed over the last 48 hours?
TROY MERRITT: I think it's played pretty similar, besides the wind going the opposite direction today to how we played it yesterday morning.  I think the boys yesterday afternoon had it a little bit more firey than we did in the morning.
It was a very similar course to what we saw yesterday morning.  Maybe the greens might have been a touch slower than we played them yesterday.  I don't know what the plan is for tonight.
I know we saw some carnage down the stretch yesterday, so if they want to enforce that tomorrow and want to see us kind of limp into the finish, then they don't put the any water on it.
But just excited to get back out there tomorrow.  It's a fun format tomorrow.  We don't get to do it any other time this year.  Just going to be fun to have some laughs, and hopefully we make some birdies.
Q. Talk about your round out there today.
TROY MERRITT: It was very similar to the one on Thursday as far as score goes.  Pretty consistent.  For us, we weren't exactly knocking the flags either day, but we rolled the ball really well.
We had a couple stressful ones.  The only difference today for us is we didn't have to try to stress out pars.  We did a good job of always having somebody there (indiscernible) more aggressive with birdie putts.  That's what you have to do on best ball days.
Q. What kind of mindset did you take to the course today?
BRENDON DeJONGE: I think fairly aggressive.  I think obviously you know you need to go low.  I think we knew that, and saw what the scores were like before.  Kind of went with that.
Q. Have you been surprised by how much movement we've seen today?
BRENDON DeJONGE: No, not really.  It's kind of that format.  (Wind interference.)  The way the golf course is playing.  Going to be a bunch of birdies.
Q. Now we switch back to alternate shot format.  What did you guys learn the first day that can help you in the final round?
TROY MERRITT: We played pretty solid the first day.  Had a couple shots we thought were all right that ended up in the water; maybe avoid those.
But we played pretty solid and had a we good finish on Friday.  Last few holes were solid.  We'll look back at those holes and take that into tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT