NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 19, 2016
Troy Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Solid play today.  Caught up with you at the 15th hole today and I saw you 109 yards out is what ShotLink had.  Did you get that same number, because I saw you guys walking it.  
TROY MERRITT: The little 5-iron right out of the bunker, clipped a tree and ended up on 17.  We actually paced off about 80 yards to the hole, which ended up being a good number.  Was in the rough and didn't have to worry about the spin too much and as a result we tapped it in for par and went to 16.   
 Q.  Did you have a great look at 17?  Did you hit the putt where you wanted to?  
TROY MERRITT: It's crazy -- we have so many crazy putts out here.  My caddie read it inside right.  I had it inside left.  Hit it straight and missed it half a cup right.  It was one of those squirrely ones.  Ones that probably if you hit it a half-cup left it goes right down the fault line and miss it half a cup left.  One of those weird ones.   
 Q.  On 18, no bubble there, you played that hole beautifully.  
TROY MERRITT: We were just a couple paces up into the rough and it was as straight a shot as you're going to get to the right pin.  Hit a nice solid 5-iron, jumped nicely a good 20 yards and landed like a wedge somehow and rolled in for birdie.   
 Q.  Your thoughts going into the weekend being 8-under par.  I've been in kind of your situation before here, and you don't think you're playing all that great, but it's just posting a number out here.  
TROY MERRITT: If you're not going to hit every fairway, every green, there's a lot better places out here to play from if you have the right angles.  If you get short-sided, sometimes it's good, sometimes it's really bad.  That's kind of the way we played today.   
We had a lot of putts from the fringe today but we had uphill putts.  We were rarely above the hole and that's what we're going to do this weekend.  It's going to firm up just a little bit.  Like to be in the fairway a little bit more often so we can spin the iron shots in there a little bit more.  Just make sure we're in the right spots if we do that.   
 Q.  Plodder's course, you have to play a shot ahead, figure out where you want to come from and what quadrant am I going to putt the ball on the green.  
TROY MERRITT: Some holes I was playing three shots ahead, just making sure I was in the right to get it off the tee, in the right spot to make sure I had the right shot for birdie.  That's exactly right, keep it in front of you, you really try to limit how aggressive you are, at least I have.  It worked out the first two days and hopefully it works out on the weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT