THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2015
Troy Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk about your round today and what was going well.  TROY MERRITT: I hit the ball really well today.  I got off to a tough start.  I had lead hands on the first hole.  Hit it in the woods, half shanked it in the fairway, and then wedged it in to a couple inches and made par. After that everything was really solid until the last half of the back nine.  I got a little squirrely off the tees and I missed the fairways coming in, the last four fairways.  But putted well on the back, made some par-saving putts, a good bogey-saving putt on 15 and rolled in a couple birdies.  But all in all, swing was good, made some good putts on the back, and I'll take 68 on this course any day.   Q.  How good is it to be back here after a few years where you weren't able to be here?  TROY MERRITT: This is my favorite tournament of the year.  I love this golf course.  The fans are great.  The course is awesome.  It's one of the best finishing stretches that we play all year, and it hurts when you miss the tournament.  So my goal was to get back here, and I got off to a good start, so hopefully can keep that going.   Q.  It looked like not a ton of really super long putts today; were you happy with your approaches and kind of giving yourself a lot of makeable opportunities?  TROY MERRITT: My proximity was pretty good.  I think the longest birdie putt I made was on 3 and it might have been 18 feet, so I hit the ball real well.  Breeze picked up on the back nine, but I still struck it well.  I gave myself some chances.  Not as many chances on the back, but when I had them I took care of them and got up-and-down twice on the par-5s on the back to take care of those.  It was a pretty solid day overall.  Would have been nice to finish with a par, but 18 is playing about 4.75 today with that breeze.  So it's a good hole.   Q.  How did you feel like coming in that you were playing?  Seems like you had a couple top-10s recently?  TROY MERRITT: My swing's felt good the last month or two.  I missed the cut in Houston, shot 1-under, but didn't really play poorly.  Just didn't putt well.  Missed the cut in New Orleans, shot 4-under, missed it by one, just didn't make any putts.  But the swing's been good for the last two months.  It's just all about making putts out here, and I rolled a couple in today.  I didn't really have to work too hard. I had a couple stressful holes coming down the stretch, but I got it in the barn with 68.   Q.  You said this is one of your favorite events.  What makes it so?  TROY MERRITT: I think it's just the aura of the place.  When you walk in or drive up you see the clubhouse, you go out, you see the huge range, you see all the people, you can see 18 when you walk by.  It's just a cool place.  It's our PLAYERS Championship.  It's just a lot of fun to play in.  Best field of the year.  You just want to be a part of it.  You want to have a shot.   Q.  How did you feel like the conditions were?  TROY MERRITT: Greens were a little bit soft.  They rolled really well.  They got a lot quicker throughout the week.  They're getting a little bit marked up early this morning with just a couple groups in front of us, but they rolled well.  The fairways were maybe a tad soft, but I still got it out there a couple times.  I just enjoyed the golf course today.   Q.  After the dust settled, what was your takeaway from Hilton Head?  TROY MERRITT: That I really enjoy playing Sunday afternoon with a chance to win.  It was a lot of fun, and I want to put myself in that position more often.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT