RBC HERITAGE
April 19, 2015
Troy Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you describe the emotions and the mentality that you had out there as you were playing.   
TROY MERRITT:   I had a lot of fun.   I hit the ball probably a little bit better on the whole today than I did the other days.   I hit 11 fairways, 12 greens and two fringes and one was on and rolled off.   The ball‑striking was solid.   I had a loose drive on the first tee and made bogey, but still should have made par.   And a loose tee shot on 12 that rattled around and bounced by a yard or two.   Other than that it was really solid.   I just couldn't get the ball in the hole.   A.  
Lot of putts on the lips and a couple just short.   They didn't seem to fall today and that's tough.   You have days like that.   Unfortunately it happens more off than not.   Unfortunately for me it happened today.   But real pleased with the way I finished, and just happy with the week overall.  
   
 Q.   Would you call today a learning experience for you?   If so, what did you learn?       
TROY MERRITT:   You know, I relearned again that when the tempo and the golf swing is there, I don't shy away from shots, and I felt I good control over the golf ball.   I played pretty aggressive for the most part all week.   I had a lot of good swings, very few loose ones.   So I'm going to take that forward and try to play well next week in New Orleans.  
   
 Q.   You had such a great week and today a couple holes got away from you.   
TROY MERRITT:   Yeah, I had two poor swings today.   I had a loose driver on 1, but still should have made par; made bogey.   And a loose driver on 12 that rattled in the trees and ended up out of bounds by about two yards and led to double.   
Other than that it was just rock solid all day.   Just couldn't get any putts to go.   And if I made three or four putts that hit the edges on the front nine, and it's a whole new ballgame for me, and it would have been a little more interesting on the back nine.   
But nonetheless very solid week, very pleased with my day.  
   
 Q.   You came in pretty much under the radar.   I don't think anyone was picking you to win or anything, but you led for two days and you played really well to finish pretty high up the leaderboard and you had a lot of fun doing it.   Do you feel like this was a really good week to get you on track?  
TROY MERRITT:   From start to finish this was one of my best weeks on Tour.   Very pleased, it's my second third‑place finish.   I had a second, as well.   For 72 holes it was really solid.   I had two bogeys, two doubles, made a lot of birdies.   Really enjoyed myself, hung in there, played a lot of good golf and just didn't quite get it done today.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned yesterday you didn't have a lot of experience playing with the lead group on the last day.   Did you find yourself looking over at the board as Jim was going up there?   What was your strategy?  
TROY MERRITT:   I don't ever shy away from the scoreboard, so I have no problem knowing where I sit or who is doing what.   I really enjoyed my time.   I had four rounds in the 60s, three rounds of 69 and then the on 61.   Shot 4‑under on the weekend, which unfortunately this week just didn't get it done.   Pretty solid from start to finish.  
   
 Q.   Must have been a nice bonus at the end to sink that birdie on 18.   
TROY MERRITT:   Yeah, I got over the ball and it's just one of those days where nothing goes in.   And you make the one on 18, and sure enough I hit it right in the back center.  
   
 Q.   Nothing like life on the PGA Tour on a Sunday afternoon.   Take us through the emotions of your round today, and trying to battle back there at the end.   
TROY MERRITT:   Yeah, I did a really good job today staying in the moment.   I had two loose swings all day:   The tee shot on 1, I should have made par, but I made bogey; and the tee shot on 12 that rattled in the trees and ended up out of bound by a couple of yards.   
Other than that it's probably from tee to green the best I hit the ball all week.   I just couldn't get anything to go in the hole.   I had three or four putts on the front nine that hit the edges.   And a couple on the back nine.   You never know, if some of those go in, it's a different ballgame.   But nonetheless very pleased with 16‑under, third place.   It was more than I was kind of hoping for coming into this week.  
   
 Q.   A momentum builder as you go into another part of the season?  
TROY MERRITT:   Absolutely.   I found the tempo this week with the irons, and when it's there I'm not afraid to be aggressive and attack shots.   When it's not there, I get a little bit timid and kind of shy away from shots that normally I wouldn't.   It was nice to have it for 72 holes and definitely good momentum going into New Orleans next week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT