FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 8, 2014
Troy Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Heck of an effort.   I know that last putt had the heart rate bouncing a little bit.   What did it mean of that one to get it in, to post an number but also solo 2nd?   What a great week for you.
    TROY MERRITT:   It all started with a trip down to St. Jude's Children's Hospital and donating a hundred bucks for each birdie and 500 for each eagle.   We ended up making 21 birdies this week which is as many as I've had in quite awhile and I don't know if it was the most in the tournament but it was a good time to do that. 
    Nonetheless, very solid playing.   Didn't really make any putts that final round.   Must have used them all the first three rounds.   I was very pleased.   Nice to see that putt find the bottom on 18.

Q.   You're now projected 111th in FedExCup standings with that solo 2nd.   Put it altogether this week after this season, can you even describe what this week has been like for your game to find it at this point in this juncture of the season?
    TROY MERRITT:   Yeah.   I hit the ball actually pretty similar to the way I've been hitting it most of the year.   My short game has gotten better.   You probably couldn't tell that today.   Hit a couple of squirrely chips. 
    I made a lot of putts this week.   That's what you have to do out here if you want to contend and be there on Sunday afternoon and hopefully we can keep that putter rolling.   I've always been a streaky putter.   Hopefully the streak doesn't end for awhile.

Q.   You hit a ton of fairways.   You drove it brilliantly.   You took dead aim on a couple holes today as well. 
    Were you trying to mix and find your spots?   It felt like half the time you were playing it back a little bit, sometimes you really took dead aim.
    What was the strategy today?
    TROY MERRITT:   My strategy for the whole week was something I've been kind of struggling with, that's being a hundred percent committed and aggressive golf swing with the iron shots and the best way for me to do that is take dead aim, and my short game has come a long ways.   I doesn't really bother me quite as much if I miss the green anymore. 
    So, yeah, I took a lot of chances today.   I would have liked to have that 7-iron and the 8-iron back on 17 and 18.   Nonetheless, couple pars, posted a number.   Ben played great.   Hats off to him.   Well deserved.   He's been struggling for a little while.   Very happy for Ben.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT