FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 7, 2014
Troy Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.     Birdie at the last.   That always fees good when you get in the house with a birdie on last hole.   Your thoughts on how you played, 4-under, 66, 14 of 18 greens, 26 putts.  
    TROY MERRITT:   Yeah.   Birdie finish is a lot better than a double finish.   Good way to finish the day.   I hit the ball better than I did yesterday.   The iron shots seemed to work out a little better.   
    I had 8 birdies yesterday, 7s birdies today for the kids over at St. Jude.   I feel good to be donating a hundred dollars for each one.   Hopefully we can keep rolling them in the next two rounds.   I don't know weather-wise what we're looking at.  
   
 Q.   You had a long day yesterday especially waiting around for something to happen and you never did get to tee off in the second round until this morning.   
    Do you think having not to go back out helped at all or did it make any difference?  
    TROY MERRITT:   For me, it's a huge advantage.   I'm a notoriously bad starter.   If I had to start last night and play a couple holes and start again this morning it probably wouldn't have been the best for me.   
    Having that delay yesterday and not being able to get out there probably definitely helped me.   We got out there this morning.   It would have been nice not to have that hour fog but, nonetheless, had a good night's sleep and started fresh this morning.  
   
 Q.   Got to feel good about putting these two good rounds together, putting you in a position for the last day.  
    TROY MERRITT:   Absolutely.   Good rounds have been hard to come by for me this year.   To have them back to back on a course as tough as this one, you know, I'm very pleased with it.  
   
 Q.   You'll have a little bit of time to wait before you tee off.   You're tied for 4th.   How are you going to spend that time?  
    TROY MERRITT:   Relax and get something to eat.   Hopefully the weather stays away and I'll reemerge about a quarter to 4 and go through the whole routine again.  
   
 Q.   Continued success.  
    TROY MERRITT:   Thanks a lot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT