THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 11, 2019
Troy Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about the emotion of making it to Chicago?  
TROY MERRITT: Yeah, obviously that was the main goal.  Had it wrapped up through the second round, third round we were still fine and that's why we play 72 holes.  Just stayed in it, finished strong.  Made several birdies coming in and got the job done.   
 Q.  The front nine, not your best.  Did you do anything at the turn?  
TROY MERRITT: Just staying positive.  Just stayed with it.  Didn't give myself a lot of stress really the last two days.  Didn't have to make many par putts and made some birdie putts today.   
 Q.  With the season on the line, the way you played down the stretch, what confidence do you take going into BMW?  
TROY MERRITT: Yeah, game's in a good place.  It's nice when putts are going in.  That takes a lot of stress off of the iron game and the short game, knowing you can be more aggressive, you're probably going to hole one.  I'm going to try to carry that forward into next week.  Hopefully the putter stays hot.  Hit a lot of quality shots and see if we can bust another bubble.   
 Q.  What was it like today?  You're not only just playing to make it into next week, but you're also in the mix out here, too.  What was it like for you?  
TROY MERRITT: We took ourselves out of the mix early with the bogey on 3 and the triple on 5.  But held it together.  Hit a lot of quality shots today and got ourselves out of trouble when we needed to and holed putts inside of ten feet.  As a result, erased the bad start.   
 Q.  Looks like you are at 59 right now.  We'll see how that goes, but probably pretty save.  You just told me you have a flight to catch here pretty soon.  Feel good that that's going to Chicago now?  
TROY MERRITT: The flight was always going to Minneapolis, actually.  I had a niece born on the 23rd of July.  We are going to spend a day with my brother, sister-in-law and her, and now I'll head down to Chicago on Tuesday.  I didn't book a flight home from Minneapolis.  I didn't book a flight from Chicago.  Wait and see how things happen.  Take care of that tonight.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT