FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 7, 2014
Troy Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  TROY MERRITT:   Almost finished 26 holes and, you know, usually that's not too bad but it's hot out there.   Really took a toll on me.   I don't think I've drank that much water on a golf course in a long time.   I feel pretty good.  
   
 Q.   If we finish tomorrow, 54 holes in two days for you?  
    TROY MERRITT:   54 in two days.   I didn't play on Friday so that's not too bad.   Played 36 last Monday so my body is a little bit used to it.   Just the checking out of the hotel at 5:30 in the morning and getting all packed up and bringing everything over here.   Other than that, I just hope to get it all in.  
   
 Q.   How did you go low this week?  
    TROY MERRITT:   I've been putting the ball well.   My driver and my irons have been great.   Wasn't great the last round but the last two and a half rounds it's been solid.   I've made a lot of putts.   I think I only missed two putts inside of ten feet.   Been rolling it well.   Been keeping stupid in the bag pretty well and things have gone my way for the most part.  
   
 Q.   Talk about just today in terms -- you were able to hang right there with the leader.  
    TROY MERRITT:   Yeah.   Kind of take care of yourself.   You start the final round you kind of position yourself.   That's what you've seen over the years.   Anything can happen on the final day when we've seen six shot leads falter on last day.   If you can stay within a couple shots, that would be great.   Anything can happen on Sunday on the PGA TOUR.  
   
 Q.   You made birdies for St. Jude's.  
    TROY MERRITT:   Wasn't a thousand dollars.   I wouldn't be able to buy diapers for my 7 year old.   It's a little extra incentive.   It's for a very good cause for the kids over at St. Jude's.   I think I'm up to 17 now.   Two more this 3rd round.   
    So, I feel pretty good about that.   It would be nice to find an eagle and add to it, that's $500 an eagle.   As much money as I can donate, that's kind goal this week.  
   
 Q.   You played 26 today.  
    TROY MERRITT:   I'm on the 8th green.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your birdie there.  
    TROY MERRITT:   Yup.   Hit a good tee shot right down the right center.   Kind of had a little bit of a downhill lie with a pitching wedge.   Didn't get to carry it like I wanted.   Came up probably about 20 feet short right, and had about a foot and a half right to left break and just kind of rolled right in the center with good pace.   Just one of those perfect ones and found the hole.  
   
 Q.   How are the greens playing?   It's been awhile since they cut them.  
    TROY MERRITT:   The greens have been phenomenal.   With all the rain we've had, the grounds crew is doing an unbelievable job keeping the golf course playable.   I played Thursday morning and they were firm.   Obviously they softened up a little bit.   They're taking a bit of a bounce sometimes.  
   
 Q.   Did they roll any slower today?  
    TROY MERRITT:   I don't see that at all.  
   
 Q.   The scores kind of what you expected today with the conditions and all?   No one is really going extremely low.  
    TROY MERRITT:   Before the third round started I thought there might be a few more lower numbers.   Obviously guys played anywhere from 7 holes to 15 holes almost.   It was quite breezy this afternoon.   It was just a little bit awkward.   Lot of awkward iron shots out there.   When the breeze is up, obviously this course is tough enough as it is but the breeze makes it that much tougher.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT