FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
June 5, 2014
Troy Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Troy, I know not the finish you wanted there but still 3-under, first day.   Pretty good score.  
    TROY MERRITT:   Yeah.   I'm just actually happy we finished today.   I know we'll probably get a pretty good long rest with the guys in the afternoon aren't going to finish tonight and have to come back in the morning; depending on the weather tomorrow have to play their second rounds.   
    Who knows when we're going to start a second round.   We got a little bit of time to just kind of recover.   It's been a long week over the U.S. Open Sectional Qualifier.   Body can use a little break.   But, nonetheless, I'm pretty happy with 67.  
   
 Q.   Talk about it overall except -- I mean how you played.  
    TROY MERRITT:   I played pretty solid.   I hit my driver really well.   It's been pretty solid for awhile.   Hit a lot of irons that I like.   I was able to save pars and I made a lot of putts today.   
    Monday in the U.S. Open Sectional I had a lot of downhill putts and I think it kind of helped me for today because I had a lot of downhill putts today.   They found the hole today.   It's kind of nice to watch them all go in.  
   
 Q.   As you go in and have a pretty good round and be atop the leaderboard and you double 18 going in, did you allow that to kind of disappoint you on your day or, "Hey, one of those shots that got away, I'll take the 67"?  
    TROY MERRITT:   It's one of those shots that just got away.   I hit a fade with my driver.   Never on the left side of the course.   The wind was off the right.   A perfect tee shot.   
    Hit it down the middle and it stayed right there and tugged it a little bit.   As if we weren't wet enough I wanted to get a little bit wetter.   Nonetheless, pretty solid round.   Haven't had a whole lot of success this year.   It's nice to post something in the red.  
   
 Q.   When that happens, what do you say?  
    TROY MERRITT:   "It's one of those days."   Like I said, I don't hit it left.   I know that's not going to go that way very often.   Just happens.   Sometimes when it goes left, whatever is over there you don't want to be over there.   Just a bad shot.  
   
 Q.   Forgive me if somebody asked this, No. 17, did you prepare for that shot?   You knew your distance.  
    TROY MERRITT:   We knew the distance but when we were out there earlier the wind was pretty stiff coming off left.   As we got prepared to hit the shot it switched and was a little bit more down off the left.   
    We had to -- little different -- I did hit a couple of my 24-degree Adams Hybrids on the range but I wasn't prepared to hit quite that shot and wasn't prepared to take some off.   Nonetheless, good swing coming off the rain delay.  
   
 Q.   How bothersome are these delays when you only have a hole and a half left to play, you're not -- some of these guys didn't tee off.   
    Do you like it that way or would you rather have your whole round to play if you had to sit out and wait three and a half hours?  
    TROY MERRITT:   I'd rather have the whole round.   Like we'll be able to finish up on Saturday, those are my least favorites.   I'm not a very good starter when you have to start and play a few holes and start again the next day, it usually doesn't bode well for me.   It's something I'm working on.   I'd rather have gotten all 18 in today.   But, nonetheless, that's fine.  
   
 Q.   Did you get any sense of the course and how it might be playing, how much softer and whether or not it might be more conducive to scoring?   
    TROY MERRITT:   It's a little bit softer.   The greens held really well through the weather delay.   Still rolling well.   They were a little bit softer.   
    That second shot I hit on 17, had I hit the same shot earlier today it would have released much further.   The greens were pretty firm this morning.   I'm still happy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT