CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK CLASSIC
November 11, 2010
Troy Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Troy, your first time to see these courses, and The Palm is unfortunately one you gotta go get early. You got it early.   
 TROY MERRITT: Yeah. I got off to a great start. I was making putts and doing everything right the first six holes and made a great par save there on 16, made about a 20-footer and had too bad of a lie in the bunker on 18 and clicked it over the green and wound up making double. But besides that it was a pretty solid round. I really can't ask for a whole lot more.  
  
  Q. Liked the way you held it together after that. You make a double at the palm, a lot of guys head south. You hung in.   
 TROY MERRITT: Yeah. And it wasn't like I played stellar golf afterwards. I made probably three key par putts coming in the last nine holes and really didn't have that many looks at birdies, but I scored well on the nine holes, came away with eight pars and a birdie, and I guess I'll take it.  
  
  Q. Making all those putts, now, that could have something to do with last night at Fantasia Golf. I understand -- I have sources that tell me you were scoping it out, and then Rickie told me there could be a big game tonight between the two of you before the big Kodak show down tomorrow.   
 TROY MERRITT: Yeah. I wanted to see what all the hype was about over there. They say it's the world's hardest mini golf course, and it's definitely the toughest one I've ever played.   
 And I think I made all the putts today just because the greens are so much easier here. You weren't playing 20 feet of break and aiming backwards and whatnot, but I had a lot of fun last night, and I think we're going to have a lot of fun tonight out there.  
  
  Q. How much fun has it been with Rickie over the last few weeks with this Kodak thing. He says, hey, if he makes a birdie tomorrow, there will be some jawing, there will be a little wave back to you on the tee because you'll be playing right behind him.   
 TROY MERRITT: Oh, absolutely. I hope he does. I figure he or Aaron are going to make birdie, and I'm sure he's trying his hardest. I mean he's here to win the tournament, obviously, and as a secondary goal birdie that Kodak and send us into a playoff. If he birdies it, yeah, I'll see it. I'll know. I'll hear the roar, and hopefully I'll stick one in there and stick one right on top of him. So tomorrow should be fun, and hopefully the weekend will be just as fun.  
  
  Q. You guys keep having fun. Thanks a lot for joining us.   
 TROY MERRITT: Absolutely.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT