THE McGLADREY CLASSIC
October 7, 2010
Troy Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just first, tell me about your round. Things going well for you out there today?
 TROY MERRITT: Yeah. I got off to a pretty solid start, just hitting a lot of fairways, a lot of greens. And it was nice to hit it into within a couple of inches on 11 and get the birdie right away. 
 And I made a nice 30-footer on 14 for birdie and was able to hit the green in two on 15 and make birdie. And I had my worst swing of the day off the tee box on 18, just a big hook, which it really surprised me because it's one of the swings that you don't see with my driver. And it went in the hazard, and I was able to make a good bogey. And then just played real solid golf the last nine holes, only had to really was scrambling for par on No. 4 from about 75 yards, but other than that, it was pretty solid.

 Q. What's the key to scoring well out here?
 TROY MERRITT: Give yourself a lot of looks and not missing greens. If you miss the greens out here, you're really going to struggle to make pars. And that's why -- they're not very big greens, so if you can hit it in the middle, you're only going to have 15, 20, 25 feet, and you're going to make a couple of those throughout the week.

 Q. Is the rough pretty thick out there?
 TROY MERRITT: It's not that it's so thick. It's just that it's just right down to the bottom, and Bermuda rough is, for me, especially, it's tough to play out of because it's something that I didn't see until I was a junior in college. So I try to avoid it as much as I can, and especially around the greens.

 Q. What does it do for your confidence to have your low round of the year out here?
 TROY MERRITT: Oh, it was nice. I played just fine last week. I just had a couple of breaks on Friday and posted a big number. I guess you could say I followed up my worst round with my best round. So that's always good. It's always positive to come back like, and yeah, hopefully I can carry the momentum I gained today throughout the rest of the week.

 Q. What kind of thoughts do you have coming into the week 123 on the Money List?
 TROY MERRITT: Just you know your position. You know you're inside, but you know you're not going to stay there if you don't do anything the rest of the way. So you just gotta go out there and hit as many shots as you can and try to eliminate a lot of the mistakes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT