BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2019
Troy Merritt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TROY MERRITT: Yeah, we're kind of not so pleased with the par-5 scoring the first two rounds.  I think we sat at, I think, two points and you just can't do it out here.  We took care of them today.   
I think we ended up with 12 points.  It was nice to have the two eagles, especially the last one here on 18.  And it just puts us in a much better position tomorrow to win the tournament.   
 Q.  You missed the cut on your last two events.  How does this kind of just motivate you and continue to propel?  
TROY MERRITT: Yeah, the golf wasn't overly spectacular the last couple of weeks but the putter was ice cold.  The swing's been a little better this week.  I still missed some shots.  But we really putted well this week.  Read the green well and the speeds have been really good.   
We had two 3-putts but usually when you're putting well you're aggressive, you'll have a couple of mistakes.  Putts just need to keep up tomorrow, just keep making putts.   
 Q.  Talk about the conditions being in this mountain climate, a little bit later than what you're used to.  Is this any challenge to you?  
TROY MERRITT: Luckily I live in Boise, I believe half the elevation.  I played a couple college tournaments here in Reno.  I've played the elevation before, not particularly well but I have played it.  I don't remember ever playing it this soft, though.  It's always pretty bouncy here.  So that's a little bit different.  Maybe that's a little more as to the secret why we're playing well this week.   
 Q.  What's the mindset going into Sunday?  
TROY MERRITT: Just gotta get the ball in the fairway and get it on the green.  With the way the putter is rolling, if we can have 14, 15 good looks, might make half of them, and hopefully that's good enough.   
It's just getting the ball in play, getting the ball on the greens and hopefully the putter keeps working.   
 Q.  You've also had three top 10 finishes this season.  What makes the difference between those starts and --  
TROY MERRITT: It's usually the putter.  The ball-striking this year has been more consistent than any other year I've been as a professional.  But the weeks that I've played well, the putter has been working as well.  Hasn't been overly great this year, but switched to a new putter back in Minnesota, had a top 10 right away before the 10 missed cuts and should be working again this week.  So hopefully just ride it out to the finish line tomorrow.   
 Q.  And eagles are huge at this event.  Five points.  Do you feel like you play more aggressive this week?  
TROY MERRITT: Yeah, I mean you have to, especially on these par-5s, they're a little bit longer.  But some of them you get mid-irons in, like 13 and 18 here.  You have to play aggressive and give yourself a good look at eagle.  The worst you can do is make birdies.  That's why the first couple of days I think we had a bogey and a double and a few pars on the par-5s and you can't do that.   
 Q.  Made 30-foot putt on that eagle on 18 here.  
TROY MERRITT: It was long enough, (indiscernible) the ball to the hole.  It was probably about 30, 35 feet.   
 Q.  What's going through your head on that?  
TROY MERRITT: Just keep tracking, keep tracking and disappear.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT