DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 1, 2009
Matthew Turner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How have you enjoyed the whole four days? 
 MATTHEW TURNER: I've enjoyed every minute, every hole. Playing with last week's champion, as well, was something special today. He shot 64, as well, so something to witness. But I enjoyed all of it.

 Q. How do you reflect on how well you've played?
 MATTHEW TURNER: I've played well all week until the finish today. I got to 6-under with 15 to go and finished level par, which speaks for itself I guess. But I just got a bit tired and hit a few bad shots and didn't get up-and-down. But otherwise, level par at the beginning of the week, I would have taken it for sure.

 Q. Nervous about being on this kind of stage with expectations from the locals and your family? 
 MATTHEW TURNER: At the beginning of every round. Not so much today. Yesterday was hard because I was playing with Darren Clarke, as well, and that was a big thing for me, especially with the amount of people on the tee. 
 Once I got off to two holes, I was calm and relaxed and felt like I could do anything really. I guess that's what the secret was this week. Last year, I was nervous the whole way around and this week it was just the two holes and I just played my game.

 Q. Was that the biggest crowd you've played in front of when Darren Clarke was alongside?
 MATTHEW TURNER: Yeah, definitely, on that 10th tee, it was the biggest roar I have ever had. Hopefully I'll get a bigger roar in the prize presentation, but I'm looking forward to that, as well. Hopefully I'll be alongside one of the big names, which I'm sure I will be.

 Q. I'm sure you noticed the 19-year-old who is leading tournament now, as well. 
 MATTHEW TURNER: If I do half as well, I'll be happy. I know he made the cut in The Open at 17, and I know it's not The Open, but it's a start. If I'm leading a golf tournament when I'm 19, I'll be more than happy.

 Q. I'm sure the other guys around here know a bit more about you, but what are your ambitions, presumably you would like to make a name for yourself in this game?
 MATTHEW TURNER: Eventually. Going to spend four years in college in America and get a degree, as well, just in case, and after that, see what happens. If I'm good enough, I'm good enough and if not, all I can do is try my best and see what happens. 

 Q. Are you taking good advice, or just advice and level headed? 
 MATTHEW TURNER: Good advice, and I am wise and level-headed. No, I'm looking forward to getting out to the States, as well. It was my choice in the end, I suppose. My parents are supporting me the way that they got me to go out to the States, and I got to go out to the States as well, and that's the main reason for it. 

 Q. To study what? 
 MATTHEW TURNER: Probably something in business or finance. Something that doesn't take up too much time. So I'm looking forward to it, end of this year. 

 Q. So what does this do for your self-confidence?
 MATTHEW TURNER: To know that I can make the cut is a big thing. Sort of in the back of my mind, I knew I could do it. Just needed to go out and then feeling like I have, just getting the confidence in every tournament and how I play in, and I'm just looking forward to playing golf again. 

 Q. You mentioned being tired; the weather didn't help you, but the scheduling, did it?
 MATTHEW TURNER: The only morning I was not up at 6.30 was the morning I didn't even play. But every other morning, I had 7.30 tee times, so that's tough.

 Q. But that goes with the territory, I suppose, when you're an amateur trying to get a reputation for yourself?
 MATTHEW TURNER: Yeah, I just have to do what I'm told and take the opportunities. 

 Q. You mentioned the prize-giving ceremony, you're really looking forward to that?
 MATTHEW TURNER: Yeah, for sure.

 Q. And to be there alongside whoever wins, possibly McIlroy, will you see that as something similar to the Silver Medal at The Open?
 MATTHEW TURNER: Well, it's just sort of same sort of thing. 
 The Open's got a lot of players, but the field here is almost as good, minus Tiger, but they still have one of the best fields they have had on The European Tour. So to make the cut, I feel like Rory, what he did in the Open a couple of years ago.

 Q. Has making the cut made you more hungry?
 MATTHEW TURNER: Sure. I just see how these guys get treated every week and they have everything handed to them. It's unbelievable, the life they lead; and playing new golf courses every week, it's just unbelievable. So definitely looking forward to try to do the same thing. 

 Q. Yesterday you said Darren Clarke was very helpful with tips and advice. 
 MATTHEW TURNER: Yeah, Darren last night, I had to mark a putt on 5, I had about a ten-foot left-to-right, and he said: "A pro would have marked that and come back tomorrow." He said, "You can putt it now if you want." I didn't putt it and I holed this morning. Probably saved me a shot because I probably would have missed it last night. 
 Quiros was unbelievable. On 12, I remember the drive he hit -- I was still on the tee laughing and I hit it as well as I could and I couldn't touch him. 
 I guess he was playing his own game. That front nine he played in 7-under was just unbelievable to watch.

 Q. Has there been one standout highlight for you?
 MATTHEW TURNER: I think at the start this morning, after I hit my shot into 12, especially playing with the likes of Quiros, I just didn't want to make a fool of myself and birdied the first three holes. From then on, it was a struggle. 
 But to get it to 6-under par was something to be able to remember and especially playing with such huge players. Just to know that I can be up there with those guys and maybe with a bit more experience, I could finish it off and get a couple more under. But knowing I can get so many of the leaders, as well, and knowing I made so many birdies, but making too many mistakes in each round, which I noticed the guys don't do. I just didn't get up-and-downs when I got into trouble and they just seemed to get up-and-down from everywhere. So just an aspect of my game I need to work on now. 

 Q. You mentioned the American universities, and the last time you had three on the go; have you narrowed it down? 
 MATTHEW TURNER: I'm sort of leaning towards Ohio State, at the minute looking most likely but hopefully after this week I have a few more options.

 Q. You said Stanford last time didn't you?
 MATTHEW TURNER: That was a very original thought. I did speak to them and the grades are very, very tough to get in and the golf is really tough to get in. 

 Q. Do you think Ohio might be your destination?
 MATTHEW TURNER: They have got an unbelievable golf programme.

 Q. Do you know anybody else who went there?
 MATTHEW TURNER: Sindelar and a couple of other guys. Not any new guys, I don't think. They are a Top-30 team this year so the golf team is progressing every year and the money they have is unbelievable for new facilities and stuff like that, so I'm looking forward to it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT