HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2019
David Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
(SUNG HYUN PARK'S CADDIE)   
DAVID JONES: After the last couple of days, just on the back nine -- the course, if you get a little bit greedy, it can bite you.  That's what happened for two days.  We probably got a little bit too aggressive when we're on form, and the course being set up as it was put us out.   
 Q.  What was the difference today on the back nine?  
DAVID JONES: There was a couple of holes, par 3, on 11, we just had a bit of discipline.  On 15, we tried to be clever and keep it on the top.   
But we were holing so many putts early in the round that all of a sudden, you can hit it 20 feet and you actually feel a bit more comfortable going for it.   
But there was two or three pin positions on the back nine that we played smart for and we had the luxury coming in 17 and 18 not having to go for the pins.   
 Q.  Does she chat much out on the course?  
DAVID JONES: She does, actually.  If you look closely at us at times, we're chuckling away at things.  Both of us are pretty quiet, and when you're in it on Sunday, a little quick joke here and there, but you're so focused on what you're doing, both of you, there isn't really that much chitchat on a normal day from the two of us.   
 Q.  How is her Irish?  
DAVID JONES: It's funny, because even a lot of the caddies out here struggle to understand me, but she does, and I don't know why.  I have no idea how, but yeah, she gets it.   
On the golf course, we have very little problems communicating, because golf is simple.  It's numbers, it's wind, it's figures, and we've spent our whole life in that.  There's not much difficulty that way.  Never has been.  Sometimes you just want to lighten it up, you know, you need a story, and there's where -- simple is good.   
 Q.  Give us one of her jokes or the jokes she shared?  
DAVID JONES: It's normally me doing something stupid at myself.   
 Q.  She laughs at you?  
DAVID JONES: Yeah, that's -- generally.  I'm an Irishman, so she's always going to be laughing at me.   
 Q.  What do you do?  
DAVID JONES: No idea.  Ask her.  Haven't a clue.   
 Q.  The commentators were calling her an enigma.  Do you agree with that?  
DAVID JONES: 100 per cent.  And it happens in the men's game and it happens in our game:  Every ten or 15 years, someone comes along that just has raised the bar, and she is that person.   
 Q.  How long have you caddied for her?  
DAVID JONES: Close, it will be coming up on two years.  Almost two years.   
 Q.  Where does she excel from the rest of these women?  
DAVID JONES: Her ball-striking, heads and shoulders above lots of people.  She's long.  She's straight, and if we had a driving stat at the minute for strokes gained off the tee, hands down we would be No. 1, last week and this week.   
She's long and she's straight.  She hits her irons good and high, and she's a good putter.  So when you put all those things together, there's not many weaknesses in her game.   
 Q.  You talk about aggression, and today she really had to go for it to win, do you feel in the back nine where she didn't do so well in the past two days?  
DAVID JONES: I think we just got stuck into what we do.   
We've had 38 and 39 on the back nine for two days, but we didn't play that bad.  So you can't go changing your game plan.  The par 5s were there for us on the back nine, which suits us because we're longer and we held a couple of putts.  That was the only difference.   
There's a fine line between shooting 32 on the back side today and shooting 38, 39 that we shot yesterday.  We didn't play -- didn't seem like we were six or seven shots better.   
 Q.  So better putting, did you work on putting yesterday?  
DAVID JONES: No.  She's been stroking it good all week.  They just haven't gone on in, and the putts dropped today.  Golf, sometimes you can hit good putts and they don't go in.  Today, they went in.   
 Q.  Was there a momentum changes when Minjee dropped that stroke on 14?  
DAVID JONES: I don't know if Sung Hyun realised at the time.  But I was looking across and I could see that we were -- and the board hadn't changed, then but walking up 16, I could see Minjee was in the bunker, and she had a short putt and then the board changed.   
I was aware that that birdie putt on 16 was to go two ahead, which was key, because it meant the pin on 17, you could be safe -- you can't get near.  That was the luxury we had coming in.  We just had to put it at 30, 40 feet and take your two putts, which is just kind of how we got it in for the last two.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT