U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2017
Chia Yen Wu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're headed to the quarterfinals of the Women's Am.  How are you feeling?
CHIA YEN WU: Today I know I played this morning, I played -- not play very bad, but she played very good, like three birdies on the front nine, and just on the front nine, 4-down, and on the last nine, I just think -- every shot hit close, because my putting is not very good.  Hit closer, and if I do my best and I lose, it's okay.  But if I not do my best, I will not happy.
In the afternoon, I know I played with a very strong player --
Q. A champion.
CHIA YEN WU: Yeah, a champion.  I think I'm very excited.  I want to learn about her, like how to play.  And I think I just do my best, and yeah.
Q. So you're not happy with yourself when you don't play your best, but talk to me about some of the great holes you had today.  I know you probably had more than a few birdies, so tell me about the good stuff.
CHIA YEN WU: On the last nine in the afternoon -- because I got four birdies -- because she got birdies very strong, and she's very strong player, everything like 10 feet, and she make it.  So I just tell my caddie, I want the same with her, do the same as her, yeah.
Q. So you just want to hang with her?
CHIA YEN WU: Yeah.
Q. Were you nervous coming into the match knowing that it was Kristen and that she had won this before?  Did that make you more nervous or more excited because you could learn from her?
CHIA YEN WU: Yeah, and I think it's just second time playing -- third time playing match play.
Q. Wow, that's incredible.  And so you qualified for this event last year but couldn't actually play because you were injured.
CHIA YEN WU: Yeah.
Q. What was your injury last year?
CHIA YEN WU: My knee.
Q. And it's feeling a lot better now, obviously?
CHIA YEN WU: Yeah.
Q. What else have you played in this summer so far?
CHIA YEN WU: When?
Q. What other type of events have you played in this summer?
CHIA YEN WU: I play a lot -- I am Junior World and Future champion.  On August 14th I play the Swinging Skirts Invitational and qualified.
Q. So you've played a lot?
CHIA YEN WU: Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT