NL DIVISION SERIES: ROCKIES v PHILLIES
October 6, 2007
Jeff Baker
Yorvit Torrealba
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Jeff, were you surprised that they didn't go to Romero pitching? 
 JEFF BAKER:  It's one of those things I have to figure out the task at hand, I was trying to get a hit off Romero and they didn't bring him in so there was nothing I could do. 

 Q.  A lot of talk about the build-from-within system, that they've been adhering to for years now; as one of the guys brought up in that system what do you think about that? 
 JEFF BAKER:  It's a system where day in, day out guys are pulling for each other, been on buses with these guys day in, day out, going from the rookie ball, and bunch of guys on the team and to see us playing this well I can't tell you how exciting and gratifying it is. 

 Q.  Jeff, how did you prepare throughout the game in the dugout for that one moment? 
 JEFF BAKER:  You know, as a pinch-hitter it's one of those things you try to play along with the situation.  When we put Sullivan into the 9-hole I knew the pitcher's spot was going to be coming up and they had Romero face Todd and then Hawpe, so you try to stay loose, fortunate to have Mike Bard throw to us day in day out and stay loose, kinda come into the dugout and calm yourself down and not be too excited out there. 

 Q.  Back to that young core of players how important is it that Helton is in that clubhouse and not just because of his bat but because who he is?  Would you guys be there without him? 
 JEFF BAKER:  Absolutely not.  Todd is our rock, our leader.  Throughout the whole year he's been a rock since day one and he's seen this thing all the way through and being able to go out there and win a lot of games and being on the field with Todd celebrating is pretty special. 

 Q.  Jeff, the way that winning-run rally started it seems like this team is on a roll, that kind of roll where it's a team of destiny, nobody out, two on and you guys get three straight hits. 
 JEFF BAKER:  It's a testament to our guys never giving up, and Hawpe had a huge bat to move the guy over and get a base hit.  Day in, day out guys grind and that's what this team is all about, that's why we've been on a roll here. 

 Q.  Given the way the streak has gone, when you guys were tied, how much confidence did it give you?  What were you saying to each other in the dugout about not getting down? 
 JEFF BAKER:  One of those things, keep fighting, keep scratching it out, Shane Victorino got a big hit and put us all square and we were trying to go out there and scratch out a run.  The way our bullpen has been pitching with Tito (Brian Fuentes) and getting Corpas in the game we knew he would have a good shot, we were trying to get a lead and just grind out a hit.  That's what we were trying to do. 

 Q.  A lot of times with a run like that, of course there are many moments in it but is there one moment as kind of the time when you guys knew you had something magical going on here? 
 JEFF BAKER:  Two, really.  When you look at it for us, the home run Todd hit the day and night double header and to see the emotion that Todd displayed that day, he's not a fiery guy, he's a quiet competitor and he leads by example and to see him put that emotion forth jolted us, and put us on a roll, and in San Diego Hawpe hit a big home run there and we were able to sweep those guys, it was one of those things, we might have something special here, and let's ride it out and go day by day and see what happens. 

 Q.  Were you looking for something special from Romero in that at-bat? 
 JEFF BAKER:  I was looking for something up and out of the plate.  You know, you get in a situation, you don't want to get beat by that and I was trying to slow myself down and get something over the plate and hit it the other way. 

 Q.  Jeff, since it seems like there has been a different star every day how did you feel up at the plate thinking, okay, is it my turn? 
 JEFF BAKER:  Absolutely.  I was excited, just to get the opportunity right there to put us ahead, it was a big at-bat, all I wanted was that opportunity.  To be able to pick the team up day in and day out, each guy -- a different guy stepping up along the way and that's why we were able to keep the streak and let it roll because we're not relying on one guy every night to pick us up.  We've got three, four, five guys day in and day out that will do the job. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you, Jeff. 

 Q.  The way Ubaldo Jimenez was pitching, what was his strength and what did he have going for him? 
 YORVIT TORREALBA:  I think all his pitching was working.  Obviously he wasn't throwing that hard like the way we used to seeing him, 95, but his sinker was a big thing tonight.  He was keeping the ball down, got some movement in his fastball and we just tried to finish hitters with a slider and the slider was there.  I think it just was a hanging slider for a home run but overall he was on his game. 

 Q.  Jeff was talking about how a lot of these guys, because they played minor league ball together, came up together, did those long bus rides together, they know each other really well.  What have you seen as the effect of having those guys and how well they know each other? 
 YORVIT TORREALBA:  Well, obviously I just get here last year but I can see that from all those guys, I mean, they're really close.  They try to help one another, help each other and they are comfortable and feel like basically I get here last year and they treat me so good.  They just a bunch of nice guys.  We have good people in that clubhouse and it's amazing. 

 Q.  Was Ubaldo Jimenez better last Sunday or tonight? 
 YORVIT TORREALBA:  Well, last Sunday -- I'm saying tonight basically because I mean, like I say, he was on his game, he went 6 and 1/3rd, but last Sunday he was throwing harder and was consistently hitting 98, 97, miles per hour but he wasn't throwing that hard tonight but he was on his game, he wasn't missing that bad and he was keeping the ball down. 

 Q.  Yorvi, how would you describe the attitude in the dugout when you guys were tied, and you knew you had a chance to go ahead, how would you describe the atmosphere? 
 YORVIT TORREALBA:  Obviously we stay focused and something I keep saying every time, everybody asked me about this team, I say we never give up.  Even if it's a tie game or we down 20 runs, we battle and try to come back and win a ballgame. 
 The attitude was, you know what, we was actually telling the pitching staff to keep us in the game and we know we going to score sooner or later.  Overall we have a good, offensive ball club.  The attitude was the same, keep us in the game and we know we're going to score. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT