BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 14, 2013
Buzz Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







NOTRE DAME -   73
  MARQUETTE -   65

Q.   Buzz, it looks like it got away from you a little bit when they called that third foul on Vander. 
COACH WILLIAMS:   I thought it was a critical play in the game.   What was the score?

Q.   54‑52.

Q.   Coach Brey said after the game last night he challenged his four big men to perform like they did in Milwaukee.   Do you think that was the key to the game? 
COACH WILLIAMS:   I thought they did great.   I think it was 48‑50 with 7:03 to play.   Of the next 11 points, they scored 7 of them on offensive rebounds, and then the call that Michael just mentioned.   I think they had two more offensive rebounds from that point.   I thought those guys were great.

Q.   What was the difference of turnovers in the first half and then in the second half? 
COACH WILLIAMS:   I think when you get embarrassed on national TV with 11 turnovers against a team that doesn't press, you hope that you respond in a much more positive way, and I thought our guys did.

Q.   What's your expectations now, Buzz?   You go home and wait on selection Sunday. 
COACH WILLIAMS:   We'll go home at some point tomorrow.   We'll practice before the selection show.   Try to figure out‑‑ last year we didn't know who we were going to play.   Hopefully, on Sunday we'll find out who and where and when we play. 
Either practice Monday and Tuesday and leave, I would assume, is probably what it will be.   Our kids will be back in school.   So they'll go to school on Monday, probably practice Tuesday morning, go to school Tuesday, and then leave, I would assume‑‑ unless we're playing on Friday.

Q.   Your expectations would be? 
COACH WILLIAMS:   Win one more game and then win another one.   We have to be a lot better than we were today.

Q.   Buzz, do you use this game as consistent motivating tool over the next few days, or will you review tomorrow and do your best to get the team move forward ahead and put this in the rear view? 
COACH WILLIAMS:   Yeah, we need to learn from our offensive inadequacies from the first half.   I mean, we shot 60 percent, but we turned it over 11 times.   Our turnover rate was way too high.   Our points per possession were much better in the second half just because we didn't turn it over as much.   But we have to learn from it. 
The season isn't over.   This part of the season is over, but we need to learn from it and grow from it and then flush it out and begin to prepare for whoever we're going to play next week.

Q.   Do you have a different feeling now with this team as opposed to other ones where you've left the Big East Tournament in the past and headed into the NCAA with a loss? 
COACH WILLIAMS:   The last time we got beat, we handled it pretty good, which was last year.   And then‑‑ oh, I can't remember.   I can't remember what happened two years ago.   Won one, lost one.   And then three years ago, won two, lost one.   And then four years ago, won two, lost one.   I think that's what it was.

Q.   Coach, what was the biggest difference between today's game and the game in Milwaukee earlier in the season? 
COACH WILLIAMS:   Cooley was much more involved.   Connaughton‑‑ how many balls did he shoot, ten?

Q.   Six. 
COACH WILLIAMS:   He made six?   That's pretty impressive.   Last night, did he make six or seven?

Q.   Six. 
COACH WILLIAMS:   Six?   I don't know that he took one dribble.   That's really good.   I don't mean that in a negative way.   I mean, somebody else created a shot for him.   That means you were in rotation, and he was standing there, and he made 6 out of 10 balls, and he did the same thing last night. 
That's the thing.   You have to guard the ball screens with Atkins and Grant, and it puts you in rotation because Cooley and Knight, Sherman and Zach are all rolling.   So now your guards have to absorb, and then Connaughton is standing out there waiting on somebody to pass him the ball. 
So if he does it on the four that he missed, how about they rebounded two of them, and they probably scored both of them.   They had 17 offensive rebounds at our place.   And they had 12 tonight.   We held them to 40 percent from the field, but they also got 30 percent of their points from the free‑throw line, which is atypical for a Notre Dame team. 
And then tonight for us, we scored 15 percent, and we're not built like that.   We played 39 minutes until we got into the bonus.   That's not good for us.   We could have played‑‑ what's Notre Dame's sister school?

Q.   St. Mary's. 
COACH WILLIAMS:   We could have played them.   If we don't get to the bonus with one minute to go in the second half, it will be a close game.

Q.   When Davante was in the game, did you want to go back to Chris? 
COACH WILLIAMS:   I did, and he whipped Chris.   Then I went to Davante, and he whipped Davante.   We were trying to tag team him, and he just kept knocking us out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT