NL DIVISION SERIES: DODGERS v CARDINALS
October 8, 2004
David Ross
Robin Ventura
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q:  Robin, you're a veteran.  Jim was talking about Finley.  Would you talk about him as a teammate? 

ROBIN VENTURA:  Obviously, it was a big deal when we got him.  The trade, you know, losing Lo Duca, Mota, Encarnacion.  We obviously needed somebody with some substance.  He's definitely that guy.  I mean, he's been able to do it with a couple teams, with San Diego and Arizona.  You know, there's very few guys that can go to a team right away and kind of be thought of as a leader.  He's definitely one of those guys.  To be able to do it in that quick of a turnaround, enough said.  I think he's done that for us. 

Q.  Jose Lima taking the mound tomorrow night, what does it mean for the team and both of you guys? 

DAVID ROSS:  It's important.  He brings a lot of energy to the field.  I think he brings a lot of energy to the locker room, to the stadium.  You know, it's a guy that's going to go out there and give it his all, just like the other guys have.  I mean, it means a lot.  He's important, he's got a lot of wins for us.  Hopefully we can pick up another one tomorrow. 

Q.  He said he's very superstitious and may have to kiss every bat tomorrow.  What do you guys thing? 

ROBIN VENTURA:  I don't think he's kissed my bat yet.  Can't be that superstitious.  As improbable as his year has been, I think it's good for us to have him go.  He lets it all go when he's out there.  You know, for the situation that we're in, he's probably the perfect guy to be doing it. 

Q.  Robin, how do you view Jose as teammate compared to when he was on the other side? 

ROBIN VENTURA:  Just a lot louder.  I think, you know, you can see him -- I think you talk to other guys, and you've always known guys that you look at and think you wouldn't really get along with.  But everybody that's ever played with him has enjoyed him as a teammate.  You know, it's no different here.  I think he's definitely, you know, very talkative and loud and all those things.  He definitely keeps it lively in the clubhouse.  We don't listen to the same music, but it seems to work. 

Q.  Robin, last month Matt Morris pitched what Tony LaRussa said was the game of his life.  You got two hits off of him.  What do you expect?

ROBIN VENTURA:  I hope he doesn't throw it tomorrow.  He's definitely a good pitcher.  You know, I think he's had some injuries that have really held him back over the years, keeping him being consistent over the past few years.  He's as good as any pitcher in the league if he's on.  That's one of those things that we're definitely going to have to be patient, you know, try and find good pitches to hit.  Hopefully we can work counts, get guys on and get some hits with some guys on. 

Q.  You played in the American League, is the Cardinals lineup similar to an AL line up?

ROBIN VENTURA:  I think once they got Larry, it's become better.  I mean, they were good earlier in the year.  But, you know, to get a guy like Larry and put him second and to be able to move your lineup around, as well as being as balanced left-handed and right-handed, that's stuff you really only find with American League teams where they can move around to DH or something like that.  You know, they found a way to have guys that do a little bit of everything as far as home runs, Reggie Sanders was bunting guys over yesterday, Matheny can hit and run, obviously got some big hits for them. 

Q.  Your 53 come-from-behind wins speak for themselves.  Knowing if you don't win tomorrow, there's no next day, does that change your approach in any way? 

DAVID ROSS:  I don't think so.  You know, the 53 come-from-behind wins kind of shows the heart of this team, how they never give up.  I think that our focus is still going to be there, our focus has been there.  I think that we're going to stay focused.  I think all we need is one big hit.  One big hit could have turned especially that last big game around in our favor, one or two big hits. 

ROBIN VENTURA:  Yeah, we realize the situation that we're in.  You know, we've been in tough spots, not obviously as tough as this one.  But we've been in tough spots during the year and been able to bounce back.  You realize each game is its own game.  You know, you don't have to win three in one day.  You know, for us, we just need to win tomorrow and then you worry about the next day.  So you just play nine innings at a time.  If it takes a little longer, then it does.  But we realize that we need to play well for nine innings. 

Q.  David, you had the first of the three consecutive walks off Eldred.  Do you think you're taking the right approach to the Cardinals pitchers? 

DAVID ROSS:  I think so.  Whenever we've come from behind or scored a lot of runs in innings, there's usually a walk or two here or there, then a guy gets a big hit, or walking somebody or something like that.  We definitely have gotten their starting pitchers' pitch counts up.  They haven't went real deep in the game.  They had to go to their bullpen early.  Hopefully that will play into our favor next time.  We've seen some of their bullpen guys a little more than they'd like, and maybe take advantage of that.  I think our approach is really good. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT