FC CINCINNATI MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 27, 2019
Alan Koch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Red Bulls - 1, FC Cincinnati - 0
Q. What's the frustration level right now, just in terms of trying to find the back of the net?
ALAN KOCH: There's lots of frustration, and you can see at halftime, the guys were a little disappointed how they came out and played the first 25 minutes.  We were a little too timid and gave the Red Bulls a little bit too much respect in the first 45 minutes.
The response in the second half was very, very good.  They showed courage.  They battled.  They fought for each other.  What did we have, three posts in the second 45 minutes.  So proud of how they did in the second 45 minutes but very, very frustrated tonight.
Q. Talking to the captain after the match, he pretty much said he was proud, too, of the second 45 effort that you guys put in.  How do you continue to build off that going forward on this road trip?
ALAN KOCH: You cannot go anywhere in this league and not play and give everything for the full 90 minutes and expect anything out of it.  The first 45 minutes was a challenge.  We had a lapse of concentration that obviously allows the Red Bulls to score a goal.
But I think Kendall is spot on.  The response in the second half was excellent.  That's exactly what we needed.  It's something that we'll have to build on.  We have to come up with the right intensity in the first 45 minutes.
Q. What was your message?
ALAN KOCH: It was pretty heated to be honest.  I think everybody was disappointed.  Everybody was frustrated, and we got a very good response.  You could see right out of the gates in the second half, the guys were going for it and fight for each other, because that wasn't a good fight tonight.  It wasn't the most attractive soccer played at certain times in the game by us and by them.  But sometimes you have to do that on the road.
Q. How frustrating is it for you and the staff that the impetus for the positive play in the second half of these games has been going down a goal?
ALAN KOCH: Well, obviously if you go down a goal, you've got to respond.  If you don't respond, you're in trouble.  The challenge is going down a goal in the first place, and that's something else we have to address, but we need to focus on the response.
So the response was positive, but we have to make sure that we try to set ourselves up for success so we can go and capitalize on a chance -- because we are creating a lot of chances and when we get those chances, we have to bury them.
Q. How did you like TT (ph) in that tonight, first game since March 2?
ALAN KOCH: Yeah, good for his first game back.  He did whatever he had to do.  There's not too much he could have done for the goal unfortunately, but for his first game back, he did a good job.
Q. Kendall -- do you have to be a little more cautious?
ALAN KOCH: No, it's a long season.  They just have to go out and play their game and stay is that true to what they are good at.  Players get suspended in this league.  That's part of the game.  You get yellow cards for a bunch of different reasons.  You obviously don't encourage players to get yellow cards but it's part of it and you just support them.
Q. How long do you dwell on this match or reflect on it?
ALAN KOCH: Obviously we'll digest it overnight.  By the time we get to Philly, we'll start our preparations already for Wednesday night.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT