BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2014
Amber Battle
Ivonne Cook-Taylor
Candace Whitaker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









CANDI WHITAKER:   I thought we did a nice job of battling and being in the ballgame and then had a big stand in the second half where we just couldn't rebound it, get loose balls, get a stop and score on the other end, so TCU went on a big run, and it was hard to recover after that run.   But proud of our team.   They've been through a tough year, but they have always continued to fight, and I'm really proud of that. 

Q.   How big were Amber and Ivonne both tonight?
CANDI WHITAKER:   Man, they just, I thought, left it all out there.   Amber played 40 minutes and Ivonne played 39.   They were exhauster, but I thought they played extremely hard on both ends, I thought they played every possession.   Ivonne stepped up and shot the ball extremely well, made big shots for us, and Amber made big plays for us like she has all year.   Really proud of both of them and how they've developed over the year and how they've come along, and excited to get to the offseason with them. 

Q.   Amber, what was working so well defensively for you all in the first half? 
AMBER BATTLE:   I think just being active and calling out screens early and communicating with each other.   I think that really helped us.   Following our scouting report and really knowing their plays and executing our defenses. 

Q.   Ivonne, after losing all of your conference games, was there a point when TCU started to go on that run when you thought, here we go again, we have to try to fight back? 
IVONNE COOK‑TAYLOR:   Yes.   We had our moments where we kind of like let down, which we shouldn't, and that's something we definitely have to work on. 

Q.   Coach, going into spring you only lose two seniors, so what was your message to the girls in the locker room? 
CANDI WHITAKER:   You know, that it's been tough, and I know that.   They're stronger for going through this season, as am I, but I'm excited to get them in the offseason.   I told them I'm already counting the weeks that we have together and just what that's going to be about, that we have to have a fire in us, that we are going to move this program forward, and we're never going to leave this program or have this program in this situation again.
A lot of young players, and we want to really evaluate where can we help them get better.   Our staff does a great job of developing players.   It's something we're proud of.   We're going to work hard this spring developing weaknesses and continuing to get better at our strengths. 

Q.   Coach, you said you guys are really young.   Obviously you guys start three freshmen, and then a junior.   A lot of momentum from this game even though you didn't win.   Is that going to lead you into next season? 
CANDI WHITAKER:   Yeah, it's going to have to.   I told them you never want to lose, but when you do lose, you want to feel like you tried as hard as you could and you left it on the floor.   As long as they can look in the mirror and say that, then I think you have a better feeling moving forward.   We've got a lot of work to do, and I think we have, again, the right staff that will help get these players where they need to be, and I think they're the right kind that want to be great, so we'll get to work here in the offseason. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT