KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2020
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We are back with Rolex Rankings No. 8 Sung Hyun Park.  Sung Hyun is playing in her fourth KPMG Women's PGA Championship and has quite a record:  Tied for 14th in 2017, won in 2018, was the runner-up in 2019.  Sung Hyun, what is it about this KPMG Women's PGA Championship that really seems to bring out the best in your game?
SUNG HYUN PARK:   I think all the courses at the past KPMG championships have suited me well, and I think I've also felt really good during those weeks.
THE MODERATOR:   These are always incredibly tough, hard golf courses; are you someone that thrives in the challenge and really does well on hard courses?
SUNG HYUN PARK:   Yes, a little.  Looking back to past scores, I think it definitely looks like I've been playing well at difficult courses, and normally I thought about why I've been playing well at difficult courses.  It's probably because I tend to focus more on weeks where I play on difficult courses.
THE MODERATOR:   I think that also ties into your success at majors; you just seem to play well at majors.  We're here at Aronimink.  What are your thoughts on this golf course, and how do you think it fits your game?
SUNG HYUN PARK:   I practiced for the first time yesterday.  I played nine holes.  The greens are definitely a lot bigger.  There's also wind, and the course is also playing a lot longer.  It's definitely going to be a challenging week, so I'll work on my shots, my putting, and hope to work on my performance day by day, and I'll discuss my strategies for the week with my caddie, as well.
THE MODERATOR:   How are you prepared for this week here at the KPMG?  Did you focus on anything in your game as you were coming in to Aronimink?
SUNG HYUN PARK:   I think I'll definitely have to focus on the greens.  They're a lot bigger, and the pins are not easy to target.  There definitely will be a lot of long putts, so I'll be working on those.
Q. How is your shoulder?
SUNG HYUN PARK:   Good.
Q. Are you pain-free now?
SUNG HYUN PARK:   Yes, it's pain-free.  I was a little worried, as well, just working on my swings and everything because everything is different when you're actually playing a tournament, but there's no strain on it right now.
Q. Have you been surprised at all that some of the Korean players haven't come over like Jin-Young, for example, to play at all this year?
SUNG HYUN PARK:   No, I wasn't really surprised.  The choice is theirs to make, so I really wasn't that surprised.
Q. I'm curious what your impressions are of Nelly Korda's game.
SUNG HYUN PARK:   I think I first played with Nelly since three years ago.  I can definitely see that her performance has been improving year by year.  She's definitely one of the longer players out there, but she also has a good short game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT