THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 25, 2019
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was your round overall?
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think that today went well, but there were a lot of situations that I didn't like, so I went 4-under.  There are some shots that I need to rethink, but my putting was really good today, so I think that in the remaining rounds, it'll be fine.
Q: Could you please explain what happened on 16th?
A: I had to swing a hard shot with a club that was just right for the distance and I hit it thin then I thought “that’s going to be short, it’s going to fall into the hazard” and then I saw it hit a rock and bounce to the right and I honestly thought that it went out of bounds. Luckily, it was right on the steps of the tent so I dropped the ball and made a bogey, which I was satisfied with. The second shot which was a chip shot was a difficult one. It was in the rough and I was in a situation, where I didn’t know how far it’d go but I think that I did well by making a bogey.
Q. How was the weather for you today?
SUNG HYUN PARK: It was a lot better than I anticipated, it was warmer yesterday.  I didn't check the temperature but it wasn't too bad.
Q. Do you prefer the fall or the summer?
SUNG HYUN PARK: I really like the summer.
Q. On No. 18, what did you hit on your second shot?
SUNG HYUN PARK: I hit my 6-iron; 163 meters to the pin.  My caddie told me to hit my 5-iron but I decided to go with the 6-iron and I hit it in the rough.  I had a good par save there.
I thought my first putt was going to run past the pin.  Maybe I started to lose a little focus at the end.  I could've made it, so it was a little disappointing.
Q. When you think about your round, what sticks out the most?
SUNG HYUN PARK: There were about three shots that stick out to me, good bounce; those were iron shots.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
SUNG HYUN PARK: I don't really like No. 1 tee.  I switched to my driver from that tee and it went right, but when I practiced that my bunker shot worked well and I had good par saves.  I was prepared for the bunker shot.
Q. And tomorrow?
SUNG HYUN PARK: The morning compared to the afternoon will roll a little slower; however, I think my ball striking might be a problem.  I'll have to work on that in practicing tomorrow morning.
As long as that is sorted out I'll have a better score than I did today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT