THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 23, 2019
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








(Through translation.)
THE MODERATOR: Welcome everybody to the media center here at the Evian Resort Golf Club for the 2019 Evian Championship.  Here I'm joined by world No. 1 Sung Hyun Park.  She is a seven-time winner on the LPGA, a two-time major winner, making her 13th start of the LPGA season entering her fourth consecutive week in the No. 1 spot, and making her fourth start at that time Evian Championship, with the best finish of T2 on 2016.  Sung Hyun, welcome back to Evian.
You had a two-week break before coming to France.  How did you enjoy your time off and what did you do?
JESSICA KORDA: So after the four consecutive weeks of being on tour I had two weeks off.  I went back home to Korea.  During those two weeks I ate a lot of good food.  I did lose some weight on tour, but I gained that back eating good food back home.
It was a short time, but it was a really good time, too.
THE MODERATOR: What are some of the dishes that you miss that you get to eat in Korea and you don't get to eat on tour?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So I especially like sushi.  Sushi in Korea is very good.  I go at least twice in a week.  I've also had some Korean food, street food, called (in Korean.)
THE MODERATOR: We caught you coming off the golf course for practice.  How is the golf course looking for you this week and how are you enjoying your time in France so far?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So the weather here is really good in July.  I didn't know that it would be held in July, but it makes me feel good.  I've noticed that at least two holes have changed.  There are a couple holes that have changed from par-4 to par-5.
The course seems really good and fresh.  I've practiced on all 18 holes on the course and it looks good.  I think as long as I do well it's going to be a good tournament.
THE MODERATOR: This week is the first week of back-to-back majors.  What else did you consider as you were getting prepared for this week?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So the two weeks I had off after the four weeks I was on tour I was a little -- I was physically strained and I took time to relax and sort of recover from those four weeks.
I arrived on Saturday.  I'm not that jet lagged right now.  During those two weeks I didn't play that much, so I'll focus every day on getting back into the game.  My practice has been better today than it was yesterday, so I'll try to focus on getting better each day.
THE MODERATOR: The last time we saw you here at Evian you missed the cut and you were very disappointed about that.  What were some of your biggest takeaways from last year, and what would be your game plan for this week?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So after being cut from last year's tournament I was a little shocked.  Was the first time my sister came and watched a major game, so she felt sad for me, too.  It was hard to swallow the results, but it was a good learning experience.
This year I feel that my shots and putts are better than last year, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up to questions.
Q. How do you feel that the conditions of the golf course are different in July compared to September?
SUNG HYUN PARK: It's a lot drier in July.  The green runs more and bounces a lot more, so I've got to be aware of that.  Rolls really fast, too.  I have to be more aware of my long putting as well.
Q. Do you prefer it this way and do you like heat?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So I like the heat a lot better.  I do hate the cold.  I was complaining a little when it used to be in September and colder.
Q. (Question in Korean.)  So this is a time when there are two majors in a row.  There must be some pressure on the players.  What do you think about having to play two weeks in a row in majors?
SUNG HYUN PARK: It is the first time there is going to be two majors in a row in two weeks.  I can't say that it is a good thing or a bad think, but I do think that if I do play bad, then I'll have a lot of regrets not being able to play in anymore majors during the rest of the year.
But I do believe it's going to help me build more experience.  Yeah, it's definitely going to be difficult to focus during those two weeks.
Q. Do you know that the men like to have a month between their majors, and Justin Rose was saying last week that anything less than a month is not good enough?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So I do agree to that point a little, especially because during majors we are -- the players are definitely more physically strained and have to focus double the amount.
So I do believe that we need some rest in between the weeks.
Q. I would like to know how important is it for you to be No. 1 in the world and what does it mean?  Is it very important to stay that position?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So I do get this question a lot.  Although being No. 1 is important, I believe that winning is more important.  Being No. 1 in the world is something that probably wouldn't last, but winning is something that will last forever.
I'm not saying that it's not important, but being No. 1 makes me feel proud of myself and makes me work harder each day.  I would like to work harder to live up to the expectations of my fans and my family.
Q. Do you prefer the 18th hole as a par-4 or a par-5?  What will your strategy be on that hole this week?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So when I saw that the 18th was changed from par-4 to par-5 I was actually glad.  I know that when it was a par-4, maybe because the weather, a lot of players missed their shots.
But I'm not saying that it is easier.  There is definitely a bigger -- a long distance for the second shot and there is a hazard right in front of it, but I believe that it's going to be more fun now that it's a par-5.
Q. Will you go for it in two?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Yes.  (In English. )
Q. (Question in Korean.)  So before when it was a par-4, a lot of players have been satisfied with a par save.  Now that it's a par-5, other players will go for birdie.  With that in mind, did you practice?
SUNG HYUN PARK: When I was looking at the green for my second shot I thought there would be a lot of dramatic scenes from this hole.  Now that it's a par-5, there will be a lot more birdie chances, which is why I said that it'll be more fun.
But it is also still difficult around the greens.  Could be also more pars than birdies.  So if my ball goes to the -- goes into the rough it would have to be a three on, so it would be important to keep my ball in the fairway.
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions for Sung Hyun?  When you first came out on the LPGA, for the first couple wins you bought a dog.  You have two dogs.
SUNG HYUN PARK: Yeah.
THE MODERATOR: You have seven wins; you don't have seven dogs.  Any plans to add to your family?
SUNG HYUN PARK: To be honest, my mom might get mad when she hears this, but having five puppies at least is my dream in the far future.  My mom does say that it is hard to keep up with just having two right now, but I do love having puppies.
So, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: What does this championship mean to you and what would it mean to capture your third major win this week?
SUNG HYUN PARK: I came to this tournament for the first time in 2016 and I tied for second; then right after that year the first round got canceled, and last year I missed the cut, so there were a lot up and downs.
Others expect a lot from me and that's why I've been under a lot pressure for this tournament, but I do want to play well.  I've definitely been under a lot of pressure.
If I do win, I think I would be as happy as I was when I first won the U.S. Women's Open.  I wasn't too confident when I was on the course in Evian, which is why I think I didn't expect myself to win.  If I do win, I think I might break down in tears.
THE MODERATOR: Any last questions?  Okay, Sung Hyun Park will tee off first round, 12:18 p.m.  Good luck.
SUNG HYUN PARK: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT