THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 6, 2019
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Sung Hyun, 20-under, tied for the lead at the end of day three here at the Thornberry Creek LPGA Classic.  You shot 4-under on the opening side.  What worked for you on the front nine today?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I believe I've played a good round the front nine.  My shots and my putts were good.  I made a few mistakes on the two holes, so that's a little regretful.   
 Q.  And you are in position again to go after a victory sitting near the top of the leaderboard.  What did you take away from your play at Walmart where you ended up winning heading into contention again tomorrow?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So I take away a lot of things from every single tournament.  I believe that every shot is important.  I didn't do too well in the first few rounds last week as well but everything went well.   
I believe that tomorrow is going to be a difficult day because of how crowded the leaderboard is, but I'll focus on every single shot going into the fourth round.   
 Q.  What do you tell yourself when leaderboard is so crowded?  How do you adjust your approach when there is that many people near the top of the leaderboard?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So I really try to just focus on my shots, swings, and putts.  I try not to think about the other players or how crowded the leaderboard is.   
 Q.  You're in position tomorrow to be the first back-to-back winner on the LPGA Tour since Shanshan Feng in 2017.  What would that mean to you if you accomplished that tomorrow?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  It would definitely mean a lot.  It would be good.  Winning back-to-back is one of my goals on the LPGA Tour.   
I believe that tomorrow's round is important, and I'll try focus on my play and play without regrets.   
 Q.  You're still tied at the top of the leaderboard.  Maybe a tough finish for you, but how do you feel coming off the golf course?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So I'm not 100% satisfied with the third round today.  I had a good start but not so good of a finish.  I believe that the final round will be important, and I'll try to focus and play a good round tomorrow.   
 Q.  The double bogey on 15 and then the bogey on 16.  Just bad swings there?  What happened on those two holes?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So the swings weren't that good.  The play on the green wasn't good as well.   
But I'm relieved that today was just the third round and I look forward to tomorrow's round.   
 Q.  You're paired and 17 year old rookie in Yeahlimi Noh.  What do you think about her and the maturity you see from such a young athlete out here in her game so far?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So to be honest I was really surprised.  She spoke very good Korean so I had time to speak with her some.  I asked her how old she was and she said she was 17.  Even though she's a young player, her swing is really good, her playing is really good.   
I look forward to her play in the future.   
 Q.  Did you play like that when you were 17?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  No, I don't think I played that well when I was 17.   
 Q.  How do you take today's round, put it behind you, and move to tomorrow?  You still have a chance to win for the second straight week.  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So the third round wasn't my best round, but I still am at the top of the leaderboard and there is still a chance for me to do well tomorrow.  Although the leaderboard is crowded, I'll try my best tomorrow and focus on every single shot going into the final round.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT