THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 5, 2019
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First of all, you set a course record after 36 holes shooting 17-under.  How do you think you did today knowing that you played that well?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I think today's round went really well.  My putting was especially at its best, and I think I've played a good two rounds.
Q. Knowing this course scores so low, do you try to go aggressive today knowing other women are going to be aggressive as well in the low scoring?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So I definitely knew that there had to be a lot of birdies and I tried to avoid as many bogeys as much as possible.
The greens are very soft so it was easy to sort of target the pins.
Q. So your back nine was very strong.  A lot of consecutive birdies.  What was working so well for you on the back nine?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  My shots weren't really good, but after I made that second birdie my game started getting better and I was able to make a lot more birdies after that.
Q. Final one.  The mentality heading into round three knowing your atop the leaderboard right now?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So I do have experience playing in the last group from last week's tournament.  I would like to keep this momentum going.  There are two more important days left and I would like to keep my putting going as well.
Q. Going from missing the cut last year to setting the 36-hole scoring record at 17-under par, what did you learn about Thornberry Creek last year that let's you play at a historic rate this year?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So I came here right after the KPMG win last year and I was a little exhausted and not familiar with the course.  I wasn't prepared, to be honest, and that's why I think I missed the cut.
This year I tried not to make that happen.  I talked with my caddie and tried to get more familiar with the course.
Q. That familiarity led you to birdieing four holes in a row not once but twice today.  What got you in such an incredible zone today?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I made four birdies in a row twice today.  I honestly didn't know.  When I was 8-under today I thought I was 7-under.
But I was really focused.
Q. That focus over the last few weeks has kept you scoring really consistency.  What's kept you scoring so consistently over the last few weeks?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So I think my chip shots around the greens and putting has definitely been better than my shots.
My putts have especially been good, and I feel that too.  I would like to keep this momentum going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT