THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 2, 2019
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: All right, here inside the media center at the Thornberry Creek LPGA Classic with the newly crowned world No 1, Sung Hyun Park, coming fresh off a win at the Walmart Northwest Arkansas Championship.
What are the feelings right now coming off the win and also regaining the No. 1 position in the world rankings?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So I feel really happy coming off a win from last week.  I came to this tournament really happy last year, but I unfortunately missed the cut.
I want to do better this year.  Being No. 1 again, I feel happy, too.  I've been going up and down the world rankings but this time I would like to work on my play and sort of keep that going.
THE MODERATOR: You've talked about especially in Arkansas about the pressure that comes with being world No. 1.  For you, what are the ways you cope with that pressure and what are your expectations of yourself?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Even though I try to sort of cope with the pressure, the pressure will always be there.  The only thing I can do is practice more and more and improve my play.  Practicing will help me focus on my play and less about the pressures of being the No. 1.
THE MODERATOR: Now, this tournament specifically is known to go pretty low.  You went low last week; Sei Young Kim went pretty low last year smashing some records.  How does that factor in in how you play this course this year?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So I honestly haven't been doing well at courses that many other players have been scoring low on, but I do anticipate and look forward to the tournament this week.
I remember Sei Young doing very well last year as well and I look forward to her play this week as well.  Although I missed the cut last year I will do my best this year.
THE MODERATOR: For you what's the improvement from last year to this year from your strategy on the course to try to get to the weekend?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  To be honest, last year I wasn't really -- I didn't really know much about the course so there were a lot of -- I missed a lot of tee shots and there were lots of small mistakes I made.
This year I'll try to, during practice with my caddie, get to know the course better.
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up to questions.
Q. Coming off a win last week and now being No. 1, do you feel like you're the player to beat here?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  It definitely is difficult winning twice in a row.  I have done it in Korea but it has been very difficult and I have not won twice in a row in the States yet.
But I do definitely want to win again.  I'll try to stay focused as much as possible this week.
THE MODERATOR: One question I have, too.  This event particularly is very unique compared to other events.  From your time last year and just being around Green Bay this year, why is this a unique event here on the LPGA Tour?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Aside from I think all tournaments are unique and special, but this Thornberry Creek is also great.  From last year I am participating in this tournament again because I want to do well.  I also want to get to know the course better.
I think other players would think this tournament is unique.
Q. Just a quick one about being world.  No. 1.  We've obviously discussed you've just become the world No. 1 again.  Does that add any extra pressure to your game?  How do you focus with that extra thing to think about?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I am the same Sung Hyun Park yesterday and today.  Nothing has changed.  I will be playing as I have been doing.  My shots and swings will still be the same.
THE MODERATOR: If that's it, thank you guys.  Thank you, Sung Hyun for coming out and doing this with us, and good luck this week.
SUNG HYUN PARK: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT