ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2019
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Like to welcome everyone to the ANA Inspiration here in the media center with world No. 1 Sung Hyun Park.  Welcome back.  Going into this week's major, how are you feeling coming off a T-2 finish at the Kia Classic?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  After last week's finish I've been anticipating this week, and so I'm very, very excited.  It's the first major of the year, so I'm a little nervous.  It's a tough course, but that's what will make it a fun challenge this week.   
THE MODERATOR: You just got done with your practice round.  Can you tell us a little bit about the course conditions here at Mission Hills?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  After playing the practice round this morning, the speed and the greens are a lot better than last year.  The greens are pure, rolling a lot firm and faster.   
The rough is longer this year, so if you miss it's going to be really big mistake.   
THE MODERATOR: This is your fourth ANA Inspiration.  Your best finish was a T-6 back in 2016.  With another top 10 finish last year, what's the key to playing well at this particular major?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Particularly last year I remember hitting well, but then was struggling as each round kind of progressed.  The course is really hard and there are a lot of opportunities where if you make a mistake it'll be detrimental to the score.   
This course also offers a lot of opportunities for birdies.  At the same time, if you play well you're going to play well this week.   
THE MODERATOR: What are your goals this week?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Of course my goal here is to win.  The ANA Inspiration is a major that I've targeted as a tournament that I would like to win.   
THE MODERATOR: If that is your goal, do you know how to swim?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: No.   
(Through translation.)  No, I don't know how to swim, and so if the level is deep then I might drown.  (Laughter.)   
THE MODERATOR: You've been No. 1 for five consecutive weeks.  You've mentioned that that's not really your focus.  Your focus is to win week per week.  How has that been for you this past month?  How have you been handling that?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Before I made No. 1 in the world I did feel a lot of pressure.  At the beginning of this year I played a lot more freely, which helps me play better at the beginning of the season.   
So just being able to maintain that level of freedom, just feeling more comfortable out there.  Of course the world ranking is important, but that's not something I'm focusing on.  It's more important to me to win, and you're never sure when the rankings will change.   
What I need to focus on is the week at hand.   
THE MODERATOR: Open it up to questions.   
 Q.  Why do you think you play so well in the majors?  You've won two majors already.  This is your third year.  Seems like you're just collecting majors trying to get through all five of them.  Talk about how you feel about major championships.  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Like you mentioned, I do have two major wins under my belt.  Honestly, at those wins I had good luck those weeks.  I think myself, including all the other players in the field, we focus more on the majors and players put a lot more emphasis on it, as do I.   
I'm just focusing on getting those low scores, but overall I think it's just good luck.   
 Q.  Second question:  Are you feeling more comfortable here in the U.S. dealing with media, winning and having to speak and maybe even learning English?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Just being out here for three years I've definitely become more comfortable.  I'm obviously playing well in the States.  Obviously I need to work on English, and going forward definitely will make the effort to study more.   
With all that said, I've definitely been adapting to playing in the States better.   
 Q.  Question about last week where you said your goal was to win five times.  Just curious about why you set that as a goal and also why you shared that.  Was it to motivate yourself?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  At the beginning of last year I set the goal to have three wins.  I was able to accomplish that.  Each year I'm out here I want to set larger goals for myself and believe that I can accomplish those.   
To your point, sharing that goal with others, I want to be able to share each win with others around me, especially fans that support me.  I want to credit those for each win.  That's why I chose to share my goals.   
 Q.  Last year the first two rounds here you played very well; the last two rounds you kind of slipped down the leaderboard.  What do you learn about this golf course each year that will help you hopefully win this tournament someday, both in playing well and playing badly?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So last year I learned a lot throughout the four rounds.  Overall, I felt that I did well, I completed the ANA well, but there were one or two places where I felt like I made mistakes and kind of fell from there.   
Overall, I think if I'm able to focus and take away as much as I can, each shot, each hole, each year, it's going to only build my experience from there.   
THE MODERATOR: Any other questions?  All right, thank you again, and good luck this week.   
SUNG HYUN PARK: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT