BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 22, 2019
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us about your round.
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Overall I'm really happy with the play today, especially putting was really good and the shots were better than yesterday.
Q. How do you like the course here?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I think that course condition is really good and the greens, first bounce like bounces a lot.  Overall it's okay.  It's good.
Q. Did you celebrate your win in Singapore?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Yes, I had a really nice dinner with the fans who are there in Singapore.
Q. You took the fans out to dinner?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Uh-huh, Korean barbecue.
Q. How did you spend your off weeks?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So I had a week off in Korea, so I practiced, but I spend most of the time resting myself.
Q. And you played in the Philippines.
SUNG HYUN PARK: Yes.
Q. And you won.
SUNG HYUN PARK: Oh, yeah.
Q. Of course.  Just a quick question about the Founders being here this week and how special that is.
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  This is my fourth time play Bank of Hope Founders Cup, and when I realized that they're looking at me, like watching everyone is playing at 18th hole, it makes my nervous, but also makes me exciting and also appreciate them.
I hope they're doing well.  I hope they're doing like healthy, being healthy forever.
Q. How does winning early in the year maybe free you up or affect you for the rest the year?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Makes me really comfortable.  So I used to have not really perfect beginning of the season in the past.  Since I have early winning this season, it will make my like comfortable with my playing.
Q. Did you do anything to maybe get yourself ready earlier, try to do anything to play better earlier?
THE INTERPRETER: Like off-season?
Q. Yeah, like anything different this year.
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So nothing like different, but well, I tried to spend more time on my workout.  So I tried to make myself fit.  Like practicing time was also same, but I spend more time with my workout.
Q. Another question:  You play so well in major championships where scoring is really hard.  How do you like this where there are so many birdies?  How do you like this style compared to majors.  It's birdie fest here.
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Personally, I like the difficult course better than the easy course.  I think if I feel pretty good with my shots then I can get a good score.
I really feel myself comfortable and really happy with my shot today, this week.  So I think I'm going to have a better score than the last three tournaments this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT