CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 2018
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: All right, ladies and gentlemen, we are back here with world No. 2, Sung Hyun park.  Sung Hyun is fifth in the reset points to the 2018 Race to the CME Globe.  She won the Volunteers of America Texas LPGA Classic; another major at the KPMG Women's PGA Championship; and also at the Indy Women in Tech Championship.
Sung Hyun, welcome.  I know you played in the Pro-Am yesterday.  Tell us how the golf course looks out there for you.
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I think the course got softer than last year, meaning that I thought the fairway last year was rougher.  But I think got smoother this year.
THE MODERATOR: Will that be a good thing for you or how do you feel getting ready for this week?  You said last week in China you had a goal of winning this week.  How are you prepared for this week?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Because I thought the fairway was rough last year, I kind of missed some fairway shots.  Like I said last week at Blue Bay, winning CME is my goal still.
Last year I also thought I really wanted to have a strong finish.  That would be my goal still.
THE MODERATOR: Last year was such an incredible year for you.  You also have three wins this year.  Look back at your year.  What has been some of the highlights for you and what are some things you can continue to grow on?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Even though I've made three winnings this year I feel like there are still a lot of things I should work on.  I kind of feel that every week by playing with other players.  I would say reduce like small mistakes would be something that I should work on.
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions.  You look back to last week.  You had a very good finish.  What are you hoping to do better this week?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I'm not like 100% satisfied last week's results since the i had over par on the last day.  I think the putting didn't really work really last week, so I will really focus on practicing putting.  If it works well, then I think I'm going to have a pretty good finish this week.
Q. I was just wondering how you feel like you've transitioned to competing in America and competing on a global scale now.  I know it's a lot different than just competing on the KLPGA week in and week out.  Do you felt more comfortable this year, your second year, than you were as a rookie?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I think it's more tiring, because when I played in KLPGA it was pretty usual to play seven three weeks in a row, or even eleven weeks.
But if I play in America I'm playing four weeks in a row.  It's more tiring for me.  So I think controlling the number of the tournaments is pretty important for me.
What I've been getting comfortable is I would say American food.
THE MODERATOR: Do you have a favorite American food yet?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Burger.
THE MODERATOR: Smart woman.
Q. I was going to ask that.  Do you think you'll play fewer tournaments next year than this year?  In terms of figuring out the best number for your schedule, what have you learned?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I think it would be pretty much same as this year, so I would say three weeks and one week off.  It's pretty suitable for me.
Q. You and Ariya being No. 1 and No. 2, looks like you could be competing for a lot of the same -- for No. 1 and a lot of the same awards for a long time.  Do you look at her game and evaluate her to say, Okay, if I'm going to beat her over a period of time, here is what I need to work on, comparing yourself to her?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I would say putting of course, and even stats says that Ariya has more percentage of putting success.  So I think that's something that I really keep working on like as a hallmark, and I will focus on my putting this winter, off-season as well.
Q. And then just a follow-up.  You and Ariya went head-to-head at the International Crown.  Sounded like you guys really got to know each other better in that match.  How good was that for you guys to really get to know each other a little bit better?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I would say since UL International Crown was more like event tournament, and that's why we -- I think that's make me have more fun than usual tournaments.
We also had a lot of chance to talk each other, and I think that's what made us got to know each other better.
THE MODERATOR: You've had some great moments this year.  We all think about your win at KPMG and crying afterwards.  What has been some of the highlights of the year?  What are your favorite moments as you look back at the season?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I would also think KPMG, because before KPMG I had like four weeks in a row that I missed cut outs.  Whenever I feel like I'm not playing well, I kind of remind of the KPMG, that moment, and that makes me feel more confident.
THE MODERATOR: Any further questions?  Okay.  I'll wrap up with one more.  You have a possibility to win $1 million this week.  What would you buy with one $1 million?  Would you treat yourself to anything?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So every year I always go travel with just my friends, but if I win $1 million then I want to bring all of my family to somewhere warm to have fun.
THE MODERATOR: Somewhere warm.  Anywhere special you would want to go?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Thailand or Saipan.
THE MODERATOR: I hope that works out for you.  Thank you so much.  Good luck.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT