BLUE BAY LPGA
November 6, 2018
Ariya Jutanugarn
Sei Young Kim
Sung Hyun Park
Shanshan Feng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We have Sung Hyun Park of Korea, and next to her is Ariya from Thailand; next to Ariya is Shanshan Feng; to my far left, Miss Sei Young Kim.
Welcome.
So why don't we just ask everybody maybe to say a few words about this tournament, your anticipation, and then we'll open it up.
Miss Park?  Just talk about your anticipation for the tournament which is going to start.
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Last year I had pretty good results on this course and I like the course as well.  I think it has a good condition.  It has a lot of wind on this course.  I think it will be important to use the wind well.
THE MODERATOR: Ariya, your anticipation for the tournament coming up?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I have a great memory here.  Always great to be back here.  Every time I finish the tournament just looking forward to come back here again.
Here I am, so just like want to enjoy all every day this week.
THE MODERATOR: Shanshan?
SHANSHAN FENG: (Through translation.)  Obviously time does fly.  The day when I captured the title is still something that I can remember, recall vividly.  Here I am to defend the title, and I would like to give my thanks to everybody for giving us a chance to come back to this beautiful town of Blue Bay.
As far as my form, I didn't fare too well; however I may have saved the best for the last given this is going to be the last tournament of this year.  Certainly I would like to do my best, and I hope that everybody will be here to support me and support us.
THE MODERATOR: Last but not least we have Sei Young.
SEI YOUNG KIM: I'm glad to be back her.  I have a good memory in 2015.  I'm looking forward to this week.  I'm exciting.  Yeah, thanks.
THE MODERATOR: The floor is going to be open now.
Q. (Through translation.)  Miss Park, or should we say Sung Hyun, the question is to you.  The battle for No. 1 is always very fierce.  What do you make of it, especially right now?  Ariya has already won the title for the best player of the season.  Your comments about the battle for the ladies No. 1 spot.
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Of course being world No. 1 is important, but for me winning the tournament is more important because ranking No. 1 can be changed any time by anyone.  Personally I like to congrats Ariya.
Q. (Through translation.)  The question is about your defending title situation, Shanshan.  You did pretty well and successfully defended your title in Dubai and Japan.  Would you utilize this kind of luck to help you defend your title in Blue Bay?
SHANSHAN FENG: (Through translation.)  Well, actually I cannot say that I'm a very good defending titles, although in my career I've won over 20 titles.  Yes it's true that for three or four times I did defend my title successfully.  For example, as you mentioned I did so in Dubai and also in Japan.
Obviously as a defending champion or reigning champion here I will be under a lot pressure and people are expecting me to fare well.  You might have pressure.  However, for me, I'm trying to alleviate my pressure.  I will do my best to say -- I wouldn't give myself the pressure to say I have to win again.
I probably will use this kind of successful experience as my confidence to do well.
Q. (Through translation.)  The question is for Ariya.  You've already locked, secured your title for best player of the year.  Do you intend to actually capture more titles down the line?  Your take on that?
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually I never think about that because like everything like God is just like present in my life.  I just keep working hard, do my best every day.  That's how I feel right now.
Q. (Through translation.)  Miss Park, last year you had a fierce battle with Feng Shanahan for world No. 1 spot, and this year you still have a shot to actually fight against Ariya on the course for the world No. 1 spot.  What might be your anticipation?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Like you said, last year I was battling for No. 1 Feng Shanshan, and this year with Ariya.  First of all I want to kind of pat on myself because that means I've been doing pretty well.
I played pretty well last year this course and that makes me more confident towards this week.  I just want to focus on my play this week and very looking forward to it.
Q. (Through translation.)  This question is about Feng Shanshan's most memorable experience, and also with all the achievements that she has under her felt.
SHANSHAN FENG: Different phases, the objectives or goals might be different.  For example when I was still at my younger age, obviously to qualify for the chance to go to compete on the LPGA might be my dream, and I realized that.  Later on, step by step, I actually captured one Grand Slam title on LPGA Tour.  That also was part of my dream.
Down the line I also dreamed about winning a medal on behalf the country during the Olympics.  I also did that.  And later on of course world No. 1 spot was also a dream and I also successfully got that, captured that title.
I consider myself very lucky because I have been doing so step by step to realize my dreams.  Looking back, world No. 1 perhaps is the most important memory or thing to me because it has a lot to do with China, the situation here.  China still cannot be dubbed as the powerhouse in the sport of golf.  To do so, to actually capture the world No. 1 spot, to be world No. 1, the best player, is obviously very, very encouraging.
Also it tells a lot of younger players, my followers that if I can do so many others can do so in the future.
Q. (Through translation.)  Sei Young, you did pretty well here.  As a former champion here, how much do you know about this course, the conditions here of this Blue Bay Club?  Share some thoughts about your knowledge of the course and the conditions here as a former champion.
SEI YOUNG KIM: I think this course, even if you're long hitting the driver you can take advantage of the par-5.  And then I didn't play last year, so when I play 2015, '16 it was pretty windy, so you have to know about the wind and then good strategy, smart strategy.
That helps a lot of the good score, yeah.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much ladies.  I know everybody is having a very hectic schedule.  We want to thank you so much for your presence.  (Applause).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT