THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2018
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Like to welcome into the media center the No. 1 player in the work, Sung Hyun Park, and her manager to help us today.  Welcome to both.  Thank you for joining us.
You have a tour leading three wins this year, including the 2018 KPMG Women's PGA Championship.  How are you feeling heading into this week, the final major championship of the year?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I can't believe it's already last major of this year.  I always think that Evian is pretty tough course for me.  Condition is pretty good.  And I also had second two years ago so I'm very looking forward to it.
THE MODERATOR: Speaking about that second-place finish, third start this year and you have played well here.  What do you like about this golf course and being in France?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I think the fairway is pretty narrow and there are many hills.  What I like about the course is when I hit the ball, when it's kind of slips down the hill kind of closest to the hole cup.  Feels pretty good.
I think it's pretty interesting course here in Evian.
THE MODERATOR: You've been the No. 1 player for about a month now.  This will be your first major championship as the No. 1 player in the world.  What does that feel like for you?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Of course I have been having a lot of pressure as No. 1, world ranking No. 1.  It's also more difficult to keep No. 1.
And because of that, this tournament is very important, that I'm very well aware of that.  Even though there are many pressure, whenever I see my caddie, they been wearing that Rolex caddie bib.  That makes me more confident.
THE MODERATOR: And your win at KPMG was the second of your career, and second different major.  Have you thought at all what it would be like to win a Grand Slam?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Actually I haven't thought to that far.  I only won two majors and I think there are many more steps to go on, so I haven't thought about that much yet.
THE MODERATOR: All right.   I'll open it up to the media for in any questions.
Q. You said before your goal was to win three times this year.  Now that you've done that, what are some of the goals for the rest of the season?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So my first goal would be do my best at the last major, Evian Championship.  If I don't win this one, then I think I want to win one of the tournaments rest of the year.  That'll be my goal.
Q. This is the final major of the year; obviously that's the focus this week.  But the Rolex ANNIKA Major Award, how big a goal has that been for you since you won your major title this year?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  When So Yeon won last year I was really jealous.  I always see on the TV when one of my role models, Annika, giving an honor.  Yeah, I'm very exciting to win the award this year.
Q. The change of Evian to July next year, do you think that will make a better rhythm for the major season?  Is it difficult to come to Europe in September?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Since next year's schedule is not 100% confirmed I can't really say that.
But I think most major tournaments will be pretty close to each other in terms of the date, so I think it will be -- makes me more nervous.  Most majors that I'm feeling nervous will be close of each other.
Of course there will be high chances of winning the tournament.
THE MODERATOR: Any further questions?  Last one from me.  We're about a month away from the UL International Crown in Korea.  How much are you looking forward to that event?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Nervous, very nervous.  Because I'm representing my country, and at the same time competing with other players from other countries.
So since it is going to be held in Korea, my country, of course there will be a lot of fans and of course a lot of pressure, but I want to do my best.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you so much for your time.  Good luck accomplishing your goals this week and the rest of the season.  Thank you.
SUNG HYUN PARK: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT