CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2018
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're here with Sung Hyun Park, the defending champion, currently ranked No. 1 in the world with three wins this season from the Republic of Korea, who will then go on to represent her country at the UL International Crown later this year.   
Welcome back, Sung Hyun.  It's so good to have you here.  This event last year was your second career win on the LPGA Tour.  You've had three more wins since then.  How would you describe your win, your experience so far on the tour?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  So this tournament was my last win of the season, and after my win here in Canada I just got a lot more confidence after that.  I had a lot more experience under my belt.   
Since it's my second year on the tour, again, have a lot more experience, even though I've had a couple missed cuts this season.  But because of that, I felt like this is a really great season for me and I think I can win more tournaments this year.   
THE MODERATOR: So you made it back to No. 1 in the world after last week's win in Indy.  How does it feel to be No. 1 again?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I am so excited and happy to be ranked No. 1.  Nothing has really changed.  It does put a little bit of pressure on me, but I just want to maintain that type of play.   
I'm still going to focus on what I need to get done this week.   
THE MODERATOR: Last year in Canada you snuck up on the leaderboard.  You finished 12th after round three, and then you go on to win the whole thing.  Describe what that last round felt like, and did you even think it was possible to win that day?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I played 7-under in my last round, but that day I was so focused I didn't even think about how much under par I was hitting.   
I didn't even have winning in my sight, so I thought it was pretty amazing that I was able to come out with a win that day.   
THE MODERATOR: At the beginning of the season we talked a lot.  You made it your goal to win one more tournament than last year.  That would've been three this season, which you got last week.   
Of the remaining events this season, do you have different goals or do you have any events that you're focused on?  Would you include Crown in that?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I am so excited and happy that I accomplished what I set out to accomplish.  I'm going to focus every tournament week by week, round by round.   
We still have a major left in Evian, and of course UL International Crown.  I think it's just going to be important I represent my country well week by week.   
THE MODERATOR: How are you feeling this week here in Canada, the site of your win last year, and how is the course looking for you here at Wascana?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I love Canada.  I love coming here, and the environment makes it feel very comfortable for me.   
I went and played my practice round yesterday, 18 holes, and the fairways are pretty narrow.  There is a ton of hazards and the greens are firm, rolling hard, and so getting birdies is going to be really tough this week.   
I'm just going to do my best and just focus on what I need to get done here on the course.   
THE MODERATOR: So we'll open it up to any questions.  We'll come around with a mic.   
 Q.  In both your major victories and the Women's Open last year you had to overcome deficits heading into the final rounds.  Do you feel there is not as much pressure on you heading into the final round?  That you can just go out and play your game and post a score?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  You know, I don't think it's a lot of pressure when I do enter into the final rounds.  Like I said, I just want to take it shot by shot and focus on what I need to get done.   
At the end of the day, I just want to come out with a great tournament.   
THE MODERATOR: And my last question.  Tiger Woods has been making a comeback this season.  Your nickname is Tiger.  Does that affect you in your game at all?  Does that give you more confidence?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  It makes me really happy that Tiger has been playing well.  I hope we can see a win from him soon.   
A lot of people call me Tiger, and it's something a little embarrassing to be compared to someone that's so great in the game.  Whenever I think about Tiger and his game it gives me a lot more confidence; it makes me love to play again.   
Seeing him do well gives me more confidence, and that's what I really appreciate about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT