KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2018
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: It's now my honor to welcome to the media center our 2018 KPMG Women's PGA Championship winner, Sung Hyun Park, winner in a fascinatingly exciting two-hole playoff after a bogey-free round of 69 today.  Sung Hyun, congratulations.  How does it feel to be able to lift that trophy?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: It was a really long round today, and I can't still believe that I'm sitting right next to this trophy.   
THE MODERATOR: I think the moment that we all remember is that amazing shot on No. 16 right next to the water.  Tell us what you thought as you walked up and saw that shot, talked with David, and then made that stroke?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: Actually it was my first time doing that kind of shot, and of course I talked a lot with David, my caddie, and since there was no water below that, that really gave me the confidence to do a nice shot.   
THE MODERATOR: And then your final stroke in that playoff hole, when it went in, we saw you cry and get emotional.  What does this win mean to you?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: I had another win before this one, and of course it's been a tough year for me since there was five times of missed cuts, and even though it was a really tough year, I think I did really good play this week, and I think all the work I've done has paid off today.  That's what really made me cry.   
 Q.  Was the ball on 16 plugged at all, and how did you hit it?  Did you hit it like a sand shot or did you try to catch the ball first?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Since there was no water below the ball, I did like what I do with a bunker shot.  So I felt like, "I got this," when I did the shot.   
 Q.  It was a tie game, and also there was a late rain suspension.  How did you manage the pressure and the mental?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: To be honest, I got less nervous during the playoff, so I even made like jokes with David and really made me comfortable.   
 Q.  Could you talk about what you were thinking after So Yeon had converted her putt on the first playoff hole, knowing you needed to make yours to extend the playoff?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I just kept thinking, just do my best and do always what I was doing, and I really liked -- I was satisfied with the tee shot.  That was pretty good.  And second shot was difficult, but I'm happy with that.   
 Q.  On television today the announcer said that your nickname at home is "Tiger."  Are you familiar with that, and what do you think about that?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Only my dear friends back in Korea just made me joke like, oh, Tiger, Tiger, and I didn't know that the announcers actually said that on TV.   
 Q.  When is the last time that you remember being that emotional after a win and crying?  And then the second part of that is were you surprised by your emotions?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Actually this is my first time feeling like this kind of emotion, like being this emotional, and I was really happy.  Like I couldn't help that.   
 Q.  In addition to getting emotional after the win, we saw a lot of fist pumps out of you today, which is something we don't normally see.  You're known as the quiet assassin out here.  Is that something we will see more in the future?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Actually I do my fist ceremony when I'm really focused in the game.  So I think if I do better play in the future, then you'll see a lot of fist ceremonies.   
 Q.  Do you read much of what is written about you in the Korean press?  And do you feel more pressure from yourself or from the outside world?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Actually it's been a while since I actually looked at the articles, even in Korea or any country, especially if I don't like the play, then I try not to look at any articles.  That actually helps me a lot to play better.   
 Q.  Luckily you secure your spot for International Crown representing South Korea.  Tell us, how does it feel, the tradition?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: After now I'm part of the participants representing the Republic of Korea, and I'm really happy that I represent my country.  I'm nervous, but also at the same time it's very exciting, so I'm really looking forward to it.   
 Q.  This is your second major championship; what does it mean to you to have two major championships in two years?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Actually this year's win means a lot to me since it made me go one step forward.  I think I've been waiting this time for such a long time since I've been having a tough year this year especially, and this is my second major win in two years, and I can't still believe what I've done, but I'm really happy.   
THE MODERATOR: I believe you're heading off to Green Bay to our Thornberry event.  What does the next few weeks bring for you as you hoist this trophy?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: The trophy gave me a lot of confidence, like more than I can imagine, and I have pretty good feeling that I will do really good next tournament in the future.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT