ANA INSPIRATION
March 30, 2018
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your round today?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Today the shots were awesome.  I just felt really good about my driver.  The shots fell in just as I wanted them to.  Even though there were a couple things that I missed, but overall just had a great round.   
 Q.  So 36-hole scoring record, did you know you were setting a record today?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I had no idea.  I just was so focused on my game today, I didn't even know I was 8-under, so it was a good round.   
 Q.  Can you give us details on the eagle?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: So the second shot was 93 meters out, and I just felt really good about the distance and saw that it had really great back spin, but I didn't even see it go in.   
 Q.  What was the club?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: 50-degree.   
 Q.  How does your game and the feeling compare this week to when you won the U.S. Women's Open last summer?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: So I was super focused at the U.S. Open, and felt just as focused for today's round.  So I think just the competition overall just felt really great.   
 Q.  You haven't played quite as well this year as you did particularly at the end of last year.  Is there anyway to explain why in this tournament you seem to have really turned it around and are playing as well as you are?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: At the beginning of the year my performance wasn't as well as I had hoped it would be, but I just needed more time to practice.  So during the time of not making the cut last week I was able to get more practice in, so I feel really good about this week.   
 Q.  Are you more motivated this week after missing the cut last week?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Of course.  It was a bummer to not make the cut last week, and I felt pretty disappointed.  But I feel like it was a really good comeback today.   
 Q.  You're one of the few players on Tour that doesn't have a regular coach.  Can you tell us why that works for you?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I really enjoy the time alone to practice alone.  On my own it's serving to be pretty good for me and pretty satisfying.  If it comes to the point where I need a coach, I will consider that, but right now I just feel really good about my game.   
 Q.  Does it benefit you that you can kind of fix yourself?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Yeah, I love being on my own, and it's been about four to five years by myself out there.  It's my own game, so anytime I need to fix something, I'm going to feel that, and I think it's really served me well to work on my own.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT