CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2017
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Front nine was sort of a mix of good shots, long putts.  Your entire game was on display.  How did you feel about it out there?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  The round was good overall.  My shots were solid and the putts were good.  Overall I am satisfied with the round.
Q. Of the five in a row, what do you consider your best birdie in that group?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  When the long putt went in -- I can't quite remember the hole off the top my head.
Q. 7.
SUNG HYUN PARK: That was the one, yes, the long putt.
Q. You had another one on 17, though.
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Yes, that's right.
Q. What's it like for you in this tour championship to have such a sizable lead just 36 holes in?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I don't think it's quite that far of a lead.  You know, two, three shots of a lead can change at any moment.  I think we still have to see what's in store for this weekend.
Q. We usually don't see a lot of emotion or anxiety.  How are you feeling?  Are there nerves we're not seeing?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  To be honest, I don't feel quite as nervous as I thought I would.  After the first shot, after the first hole, I felt a lot more comfortable.
I'm not feeling as nervous as I thought I might be going into today.
Q. So being more comfortable now, how does that affect you for the weekend?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I think that means -- the fact that I can be comfortable today means I can go into the weekend feeling a little bit more comfortable, and hopefully I'll be able to play more solid shots that way.
Q. What makes you nervous?  Anything?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Outside of golf, nothing.  Nothing makes me nervous.
Q. Spiders?  Snakes?  Nothing?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.).  I hate spiders.  But in terms of golf, I always get nervous.  To this day, on the first tee I can feel my heart pounding.
It's the first tee box that I always get nervous.
Q. On the long birdie on 7, what club did you hit to the green and was it a good shot?
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  It's been such a long round I don't quite remember.  Maybe I'll ask my caddie.
THE INTERPRETER: The question was how did you feel having five birdies in a row.  Sung Hyun said, I actually didn't quite know that I was doing five birdies in a row.  Come hole No. 10 I realized that I hadn't been jotting down my scores as diligently, and so I realized it a little bit later on and it felt great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT