BLUE BAY LPGA
November 8, 2017
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: How would you assess your performance today?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: Generally I had a pretty good feel for my shots and putts today.  I think I had more opportunities to make birdies, but I was not able to make all of them.  But it was a pretty good round.   
 Q.  Obviously according to the stats, your driving, you are ranked No. 9 on the LPGA.  However, what might be the category as far as your technique that you are really good at in terms of your skills in addition to driving?  What other categories do you think you're good at?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think from a driving distance standpoint, as long as you can drive it to a certain distance, I don't think it's really that important for me, as long as you can get it to a certain point and be able to attack the holes, I think I'm okay.   
But for me, the most important thing is the to make sure I have as many opportunities to save pars.  Par saves, for me, I think that's the most important statistic.   
 Q.  Given that you are world No. 1 ranked right now, of course, coming into this first round of the LPGA Blue Bay, were you confident or a little bit nervous as No. 1?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Yeah, before I teed off this morning, at the first tee, I received a lot of congratulation texts from friends and family.  I was a little bit concerned about going into the first round.  I thought I might be nervous going through this round.   
But at the first tee, hitting my first shot, I felt comfortable, and the rest of the round was much more comfortable than I anticipated.  So it was no problem for me.   
 Q.  So are you overall happy with the course here, especially the grass, the height of the grass itself, and the overall condition of this LPGA Blue Bay?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Yeah, I think it's really good.  You know, this is the first time I'm playing in this part of China.  I played my first round in the Pro-Am tournament yesterday.  I thought the condition was very good, whether it's the greens or fairways.  Everything was good.   
I think the wind was a lot less -- there was a lot less wind here today than I had anticipated.  So yeah, it was really good.   
 Q.  You're already Rookie of the Year.  You've won and you're No. 1 in the world now.  Are you feeling any pressure for the rest of the season awards that will come to be next week at CME?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I'd be lying if I told you there's no pressure.  So I definitely feel the pressure, but as I mentioned in the previous question, I was really concerned going into the round today.  But as I've mentioned, I played much more comfortably than I anticipated.  So I think I'm almost finding that out about myself; that I don't really feel that much pressure within the golf course.   
But as you said, there are two more tournaments left with this tournament, and I think the key point is just staying within myself and focusing each and every day and finish out the season.   
 Q.  In the past, you've been spending more time in your home country, Korea, and for the first time you went to the States to compete, as well.  You did pretty well.  How did you do this?  How did you succeed in the States and any secrets that you can share with us?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Well, I can tell you, there's no secret to what I'm doing.  I think even for myself, I wanted to see if I can improve myself each and every day.  So I focus on getting better every day, and I wanted to see myself work harder every day, and I think that's what led to my success today.   
 Q.  Why don't you talk about feelings you might have tomorrow?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: For me, playing in any tournament, my goal is to win that tournament, and that's each and every week.   
I think I had a good start today, so I want to stay within what I've done today for the next three rounds.  And if I can keep being consistent in all my shots and putting, then I think I have a pretty good chance of winning the tournament.  I'll just go and try to stay within myself and do that for the next three rounds.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT