LPGA KEB HANABANK CHAMPIONSHIP
October 13, 2017
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Sung Hyun, many thanks for coming into the media center.  You had five birdies in your first ten holes today; dropped a couple shots on the back nine.  Probably not the finish you would've wanted.   
How would you assess your round today?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I think it was a bit shaky up until the 12th hole, but I managed to save the pars.   
I think after the 13th hole I kind of became antsy and my putting stroke was a bit off.  After that I missed a lot of short putts, so that was a bit unfortunate for me.   
THE MODERATOR: What was the biggest difference in your game today compared to yesterday?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I think in terms of my driver shots and second shots it was largely the same.  You I mentioned earlier, I think my putting was slightly off today, and that's probably why the score today isn't as high as I would like it to be.   
THE MODERATOR: You're still in a very good position:  tied for second going into the weekend.  You mentioned earlier in the week that the Vare Trophy is something you would like to win.  There are still two rounds to go, but how much is Player of the Year on the LPGA Tour also in your mind?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I agree I am in a good position going into the weekend.  To be really honest, I'm not really thinking about Player of the Year or any of that at all.  I'm really focused on the game at hand.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  You bogeyed No. 13, a par-5 hole.  I'm thinking going into it you probably wanted to birdie that hole.  Can you elaborate on the situation that led up to the bogey.  Did that hole have an impact on the rest of the game?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I did birdie the 13th hole yesterday so I definitely thought I could birdie it today.  Then my second shot was sort of a left hook shot that led to kind of the grass areas.   
So all in all I think I managed it well because I managed to bogey this hole.   
I think after that hole there were a lot of chances that I didn't manage to capture.  I wouldn't say that hole had a whole lot of impact on the rest of the game.   
Think rather there was a kind of a change after the 15th hole.   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  So you've taken part in this event for three years straight.  Each time you were kind of in a different status or position.  In 2015 you took part as a KLPGA player; 2016 you really wanted to go to the States; 2017 now you're a major global player actually in contention for a lot of key titles.  So the course is exactly the same, but each time you take part you are at a different position, a different status.  Can you tell us how that feels?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  Like you said, it's my third time here at this event.  I wish I could tell you that every year it has been different, but for me it's been exactly the same.   
It's true it I'm taking part as a higher-ranking player this year, but I think that all events I kind of take it with the same kind of attitude and don't really feel different.   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  In a previous interview just before you, Angel Yin, who's on the top of the leaderboard, said that you motivate her to do better and she actually improves because she is competing against you.  So can you share your thoughts on what you think of Angel?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  I played with Angel during the first and second round of the Canadian Open or the event in Canada.  I was actually really surprised, because I thought she had a really solid swing.  In fact, she actually hits about 20 meters longer than I do.  I thought I shouldn't call myself a long hitter in front of her.   
As a rookie I think she's really bold with her games and I quite like her style of play.  I actually learn a lot from her as well.   
 Q.  (Through translation.)  So I think we keep coming back to No. 18 with you.  Today your ball was in the rough.  You managed to save it, but missed the birdie putt chance.  Yesterday at 18 you missed the eagle putt chance.  Yesterday you mentioned how you weren't really reading the lie very well.  I was wondering what you thought of your performance in that area today.  And my second question is:  As we get nearer to the final round, the final hole might actually be the determining hole of who will win.  I'm sure you have that in mind.  Going into the weekend, do you have any strategies or thoughts on how you're going to tackle No. 18?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: (Through translation.)  With the last hole today I can't say that I miss-read the lie because it was just too short of a putt for that.  I think as I mentioned earlier, my putting stroke was kind of off today.  I was quite frustrated with myself after I missed that really short putt.   
However, I'm trying to be more relaxed about it.  I am a long hitter, but doesn't mean that I'm guaranteed a birdie on a par-5 hole.  I am trying to be more comfortable about that.   
I mentioned this earlier in another interview, but I think when you're behind the lead by one or two strokes the last hole is important.  And because as long hitters you really want make it on the green in two, the last hole is all that more important.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT