AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 31, 2019
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, please welcome Sung Hyun Park to the AIG Women's British Open media centre.  This is your fourth appearance in this tournament.  You played here in 2016, and you're coming off a win, second place, a bunch of top 10s.  How are you feeling ahead of Thursday?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: I'm feeling good coming into the Women's British Open this week.  After last week's tournament, I had some time to relax and rest on Monday, and then yesterday during the pro-ams I was able to practise on all 18 holes, and today I did nine and was able to sort of discuss the strategies with my caddie.  I think my shots are getting better than they were on Sunday, and overall I feel good going into the tournament.   
THE MODERATOR: I noticed when you came in you were a bit cold; how are you dealing with the British conditions, the wind and the rain potentially looking ahead to the tournament?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: So yesterday playing in the pro-ams it rained a lot, so it was really cold, and today is also cold.  I didn't bring a lot of warm clothes with me to the tournament, and I do get cold really easily, so I'm really worried, but I'll put on my rain clothes and try to fight the cold.   
 Q.  Is this the only week of the year that you use your raincoat?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: So I really don't wear my raincoat unless it rains, but it is really cold here, so I think I'll have to wear it this week.   
 Q.  You played in 2016; what do you remember about the course, and what do you think you need to do well to win here?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: When I came here in 2016, it was a hard time.  It was my first time in England, and I had to work with a local caddie.  It was hard to communicate, and I wasn't really familiar with the course.  But this year with David I've been talking about when I was here in 2016 about the difficulties I had, and I feel that the course feels a lot easier this year.   
 Q.  Is there a limit to the number of sponsors' badges you're allowed to wear because you seem to have -- I can't see if you've got them all over your back, as well, but you have a lot of sponsors, and deservedly so.  But how many badges can you wear?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: So I'm not sure if there's a limit to the number of sponsors that I can have, but I do -- I am wearing a lot of sponsor badges right now.  I think there could be more, but I'm just not sure if there's a limit.   
 Q.  How many are you wearing right now?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Nine.   
 Q.  Counting the back?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Oh, 10.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  I wanted to ask about your sponsors.  It has to be very satisfying to you to know that these businesses pay attention to you and are paying attention to women's golf.  What does it mean to you to be a representative for all of these companies and they support you and women's golf?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: So right now all these badges are Korean companies, and to wear badges of these Korean companies and to play in other countries, it definitely makes me feel proud.  Others ask what these companies are, and I get to introduce them, and I really feel proud about that.  But also I do feel some pressure having to present these companies, so I would like to always try my best.   
 Q.  Just the positioning of the various sponsors' badges, do they pay more to be on your hat?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: So yes, my main sponsor obviously pays most, and depending on where they're located and where you can see them, it depends.   
 Q.  You mentioned that you just feel more prepared this year in England, the communication with your caddie, everything about being here; is there any one thing you can put that down to?  Is it just a case of being part of the LPGA for the last three years and getting used to life on Tour, or is there any one thing that you've mastered from travelling abroad or outside America?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: So back in 2016, I didn't have any information about the tournament such as the weather or the course, but currently this is my third year on the LPGA Tour, and I have been travelling a lot in Asia, the U.S. and Europe, and I have had some experience with the weather and the courses.  That's why it feels a lot more comfortable and easier going into the tournament this week.   
 Q.  We've talked a lot about fan clubs this week in our other preview press conferences.  Do you know if any of your fans have traveled to be here this week?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: So yes, my fans have been actually following me around since last week.  This is their second week watching me.  There is, I believe, seven or eight of them here.  I do talk to them very often, and I am friends with them.  I eat with them, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT