U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 16, 2017
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: It is my pleasure to welcome the 72nd U.S. Women's Open Champion, Sung Hyun Park.  23 years old, U.S. Women's Open.  Sung Hyun, can you talk about your emotions?  Has it sunk in that you are the U.S. Women's Open champion?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Well, to be honest with you, I still cannot believe that it is actually happening.  It's almost feel like I'm floating on a cloud in the sky.  Of course, I did have many winnings in other tournaments, but winning here at U.S. Open means so much more and for that I am grateful and extremely happy.
Q. You did so in incredible fashion.  Wonderful play particularly through the weekend.  You had a 5-under 67 yesterday, 5-under 67 today, and I saw that you were 9-under on the back nine.  Talk about your play over the last two days, how you felt and your play.
SUNG HYUN PARK: Well, throughout this tournament, I felt that I was getting the good touch and the good feel that I was going to have a good shot.  So I was thinking to myself that maybe two out of four rounds that maybe I was going to have this great numbers.  And I think that happened in my third and fourth round and maybe that led me to the championship.
Especially the back nine, I was actually extremely pleased with it myself.
Q. Congratulations on your victory, by the way.  Your clutch birdie on the 15th hole, came in front of President Trump.  His box is right on that green.  Were you aware of that?  Did you know he was stationed there?  Even if not, what was going through your mind on that shot?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Actually, I saw the president yesterday and somehow I thought he was going to come back today, but I didn't actually get to see him today.  When I was approaching 15th hole, that is a par-5 hole, and all I was focusing on is to capture a birdie.  That's what I was thinking.
Q. You had the nickname in Korea Dak Gong.  I don't know what that means.  It literally translates to shut up and attack.  Can you tell us how you came about that and what it even means?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Well, that nickname, I guess kind of came from my fan last year.  Like some or a lot of number of Korean female golfers, I guess I am more aggressive in my play.  So fans gave me that nickname that I just focus on attack and aggressive.  That's how probably it came.  And I'm happy for it.
Q. What is the Korean translation?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Literally just shut your mouth and attack.
Q. What are the Korean words?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Korean, Dak Gong.  Like an acronym.  Made up word, actually.
Q. How was it you were able to stay so focused and concentrate so well on the golf course.  That's something that's very difficult to do and you do an excellent job at it.
SUNG HYUN PARK: I agree.  I think one of the most difficult things is to stay focused and keep that concentration level up because I know firsthand that once you lose it, your play is going to just go sideways.  So I always try to stay focused myself.  But particularly today, I think my caddie had a great role of helping me stay focused.  Because whenever I was slightly shaken a little bit, he would put me back by saying, you know, small jokes or assuring me or pep talk.  That definitely helped me on the course.
Q. We understand your caddie is very friendly with Brooks Koepka's caddie, who is our U.S. Open champion.  Did his caddie offer your caddie any advice about playing in the final round of a U.S. Women's Open?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Well, I'm not really privy to that.  I don't really know.  I heard that they are pretty close and friendly.
Q. That was nice moment when you saw your mother and she congratulated you.  Can you describe what that was like to be with your mother after winning and what is your mother's name, please?
SUNG HYUN PARK: First of all, my mother's name is Keum Ja Lee.  Well, up until the moment that I saw my mother, I mean, I really couldn't feel that it was really happening.  But it's not like my mother always shows up whenever I win any tournament, but particularly this time she stood right in front of me and she said, I am so proud of you Sung Hyun.  At the moment it really dawned onto me, I guess I really won the championship.
Then my mother travels with me and it's pretty tough on her.  So I am so thankful for her sacrifice that she makes.  The moment that I hugged her, all this time that we spent together sort of flew through my head.  It was pretty emotional, but I was -- I thank her deeply and I told her that I will play harder.
Q. Your caddie was particularly impressed with your first round and he said that you had worked really hard on your short game, your chipping last week.  Can you talk about what you figured out with your chipping and how that helped you to win this championship and particularly the last shot on 18?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Fans in Korea actually know about this.  My issue with the short games.  So I particularly study and practice focusing on short game more than others.  But when I came here, I found that the approach to the green was more difficult than I expected.  So it was on my mind.  That probably also explains that the rounds how I did on the first three rounds because the approach was not as satisfactory as I wanted.  But that's the one thing about the answer for the short game, I guess.
The last shot on the 18th hole, the fourth one, I think I said this earlier out on the 18th hole.  My mind basically went blank.  But at that moment, I was telling myself I should just stick to how I usually practice.  So I think the repetition and practice that I carried out probably paid off.  To be honest with you, I was actually surprised myself.
Q. I was wondering who your swing coach is right now.  And what your working on?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Currently I don't have any swing coach, so I practice by myself.  And particularly as I stated earlier, the short game is what I pay closer attention to and spend more time practicing.
Q. How is your swing so beautiful if you don't have a coach?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Thank you, first of all.  Well, I often tape my own swing and study and analyze as many times as I can.  And in terms of swing, that is something that I try to perfect myself, so maybe there's a little difference there.
Q. Last year, the final two rounds of the U.S. Women's Open cost you the championship.  Going into the final two rounds this year, were you motivated?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Well, I think as compared to last year, I could say that I played probably little bit more relaxed.  But here at the final round, there's also the hazard that I couldn't shake that off my head and maybe because of that I got a little bit of overshot as a result.  But the experience was definitely worth it because based on that good experience that I had last year, I think I was able to garner the championship this year.
THE MODERATOR: Sung Hyun, thank you again for being with us.  Congratulations on your wonderful play.  We enjoyed watching.  We are thrilled to call you the Women's Open Champion.  We look forward to seeing you next year.
SUNG HYUN PARK: It's been a long and hard way to come here to the United States and get my championship.  Also, it was not the easiest that we have gone through with my family, as well, with my parents.  But I have to definitely thank my parents and the sponsors who waited patiently and believed in me.  That's why I'm here.  So I really like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude for their patience and love and care.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT