U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 15, 2017
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Good afternoon.  Welcome to the Saturday play at the 2017 U.S. Women's Open Championship, 3rd Round play today.   
We are very happy to welcome Sung Hyun Park of Korea who today shot a 5-under 67.  That featured 6 birdies on the back-9 en route to a back-9, 30.   
Sung Hyun, will you talk a little bit about the back-9, how you were feeling and how well you were playing?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: The first half didn't go as well as I wanted but I was -- I kept telling myself that I should stay and be patient because then I will probably get a good birdie chance I think which probably I believe that was going to happen and then I guess that's how I came with lots of birdies.   
THE MODERATOR: That's exactly right.  You are now 6-under, you're in contention, just two strokes off the lead.   
Did you think that you might be in this position when you started the day today?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: As I mentioned during my interview yesterday, although I only finished 1-under, I felt that I still have two more rounds to go.  So, that would still be enough to provide me an opportunity to play better and I think that's probably what happened here today.   
THE MODERATOR: Great.  Thank you.  We'll open it to questions.   
 Q.  How much differently did the golf course play today than it did the first two days?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I would say the putting is probably the most significant change, like first two rounds not only myself but the people who were watching probably got equally frustrated with the putting that at didn't go as well, but I think today, definitely in the back-9, I think putting much improved.  I think that made a big difference.   
 Q.  If you look at the leaderboard right now, 8 of the Top-10 people on the board are from Korea.  Why do you think the Koreans are dominating this tournament like the way they are right now?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Yes, quite a few Korean players on the top leaderboard.  I think most of them, if not all, have strong capability to play really well and they also been playing on Tour for quite sometime.   
I think if I can add just one more, maybe the course is soft, it's somewhat similar to that of in Korea.  So, maybe they are doing better.   
 Q.  Following that up, how prestigious, how important is this particular event in South Korea?  
 How big a deal is it?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: Yes, I strongly believe so and the U.S. Open is a tournament that reminds a lot of Korea players of Se Ri Pak and also one of the motivations that a lot of players want to actually come and compete.   
 Q.  How did coming so close last year maybe make you more determined this year?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Last year I played at the tournament as a non-member.  However, this year I play as LPGA member and during the year I also gained lot of experience so I think that experience definitely helped me be here and maybe put me at little ease, more comfortable.   
THE MODERATOR: As an FYI, Sung Hyun finished 3rd at the Women's Open at CordeValle last year.   
 Q.  Sung Hyun, can you attempt to explain just how much of a focus there is in Korea on women's golf and how popular you are as one of the top players there?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Rather embarrassing to say about it but I would like to think that I probably had a pretty good record through the KLPGA and I had 7 wins so that's kind of prompted to have more then and I'm always grateful that, you know, I get to have this position that I am now.   
THE MODERATOR: Anymore questions?  One.  Tom.   
 Q.  Last year you led after 36 holes and then you shot 74, 74.  
 Were you angry with yourself or was that a learning experience?  You missed the playoffs by two shots.  How did you feel after that was over?   
SUNG HYUN PARK: Well, I don't know if I answer your question exactly right but if I were to trade back my memory against last year in the last day, the shot went into the hazard.   
When that happened I kind of knew that maybe my winning trophy was in the far distance.  Also, some people criticize that the shot I took, that may not be the best one, and I did it, but I don't have any regrets and I think that was a valuable experience, precious experience for me.   
Rather than regretting about it, I think I was here for the first time as a non-member and that got me much better to be where I am now.   
THE MODERATOR: One more on the left.   
 Q.  So, how do you rest and/or relax to get yourself ready for tomorrow?  That's the first question.  Second question is, do you have a favorite hip-hop artist?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Tomorrow will be the last day but I don't think I'm going to do anything differently, just like the first three days.  I think I'm going to prepare pretty much the same like how I did for the first three days.  I'm going to get up at the same time and also try to practice the same amount of time.   
As to your second question, I like G-Dragon and Big Bang, if that helps.   
THE MODERATOR: All good.  Thank you so much.  Congratulations.  5-under 67 today.  Very well played.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT