THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 27, 2019
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








(Through translation.)
Q. Another incredible round.  At the end there, difficult conditions.  How would you describe your 18 holes today?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So it was a good 18 holes.  Of the first, second and third rounds, I think today was the best round.
Q. Conditions out there maybe at the beginning of the day looked to be a little more forgiving, easier; would you agree with that?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So overall I think it was similar, but I think the green was a lot softer today.
Q. Looking ahead to Sunday, obviously it's pouring rain at the moment.  Does that change your mentality at all, or just concentrate on your golf and whatever happens, happens?
SUNG HYUN PARK: I don't think anything is going to change with the weather.  All players have experienced it.  I have played in the rain a lot of times, so I will focus on my game and do my best tomorrow.
Q. What do you do at the end of a round?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So today it's raining so I'll head back straight to the hotel.  Usually I don't really do anything.  I just lie on my bed and read comics.
Q. You got very lucky to get done.  How do you feel right now?  You're in a good position going into the final day.
SUNG HYUN PARK: So I'm satisfied with the way I played the first three rounds; I think that my putts are getting better.  Of the three days, I think today was the best day with my shots.
Q. The Koreans are dominating the leaderboard.  How do you think this golf course favors Korean players?  Does it remind you of home?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So a lot of the golf courses in Korea are in the middle of the mountains, so it does have a similar feel to the Evian golf course here.  So I think that the players are familiar with the golf course.
Q. How well do you know Hyo Joo?  Are you buddies?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So, yes, I knew her since we were young.  We used to train together.
Q. On the national team?
SUNG HYUN PARK: On the national team.
Q. Describe her game and her personality.
SUNG HYUN PARK: So she's very playful and really nice to all the older players.  She's known to be really nice.  I think today was first time I played with her and her short game was amazing.  I learned a lot from just watching her playing today.
Q. Otto, and what's the other name?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Taon.
Q. How do you spell it?
SUNG HYUN PARK: T-a-o-n.
Q. And what kind of dog is Taon?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Labrador retriever.
Q. What is Otto?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Rottweiler.
Q. Big.
SUNG HYUN PARK: Yeah.  Not big, huge.
Q. How old are they?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Two year.
Q. Both two years?  You got them at the same time?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Taon three year, Otto two year.
Q. They live in Korea?
SUNG HYUN PARK: Uh-huh.
Q. Oh, they're not...
SUNG HYUN PARK: No.
Q. Too big to travel.  We're in the media center after it just totally down poured at the end of play today.  What were you thinking when you saw the rain coming down as hard as it did as you wrapped up the 18th?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So while I was putting, thankfully it didn't rain that much.  As soon as it started pouring down when I was done I was a little shocked and surprised.
Tomorrow I expect there to be a lot of rain as well.
Q. The highlight of the round was the 9th hole, the par-5.  Holed out for eagle.  What were you thinking about from that bunker shot before you hit it?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So at the Evian Championship I've been practicing my bunker shots and they have been very good.  It was short shot and I was very confident.  When I was making that shot, I looked at the cup and thought that this could be an easy chance.
Q. What kind of momentum did that eagle give you for the rest of the way?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So after I made -- I think the eagle was sort of a game changer.  Before then there were couple of birdies, but they weren't the best.  I think that the eagle helped me play a better game afterwards.
Q. With this much rain this course is going to soften up.  It played very hard these past couple of days in terms of bounces.  What do you have to adjust to with that heading into the final round tomorrow?
SUNG HYUN PARK: So every time I was here at Evian Championship it has always rained, so I think I'm familiar with the course conditions when it has rained.  I'm sure that other players will play their game like we have done, and I will also do that.
I'll have to discuss the strategies with my caddie for tomorrow.  As long as I keep going like I did today, I think I'll have a good round.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT