THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 26, 2019
Sung Hyun Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
(Through translation.)   
 Q.  5-under today, 9-under for the tournament.  Must be very happy with the way you're playing.  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Overall I think I played really well.  Like yesterday, I think I'm not 100% satisfied with the way I played on the last hole.   
And then thinking about that, although I did play well overall, I feel like I didn't play that well.   
I'm satisfied with the first and second rounds.   
 Q.  Looked amazing for us.  What aspect of your game are you not so happy with?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think my shots weren't that well but I've had some luck today.  Although I feel my shots have been better than yesterday, still through practice I'll try to get better for the third and fourth rounds.   
 Q.  Going to go and practice now?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Yes.  I think I'll have to practice some today.   
 Q.  How do you feel the course is playing?  Quicker today than opposed to the first day?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: So, yes, I feel that today it was a little quicker today.  It took six hours yesterday, but it feels like today was a lot shorter.   
 Q.  Just about to talk to your caddie as well, David.  Anything he's not allowed to tell us?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Like about David or...   
 Q.  About your relationship.  
SUNG HYUN PARK: No.  We do talk a lot about things other than golf, but there isn't things I couldn't tell you about.   
 Q.  5-under today.  Talk about your round.  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I think I did well today.  I'm really happy with the bogey-free round.  There were a couple holes I could have bogeyed but my putts were really good so I made some par saves.   
Overall I feel that I've done well.   
 Q.  You looked pretty annoyed by the last hole, the three-putt.  Will you get over that pretty quickly?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: Just like yesterday, I made a three-putt on the last hole.  It was a short eagle putt but I missed it, and I think the stroke was a little too fast.   
Hopefully tomorrow I'll birdie the last hole.   
 Q.  Do you feel like the strategy for this weekend should be low scoring in good weather, defend the lead as the rain comes in?  Do you think that could be the way the tournament develops?  Do you need to shoot a low score now...  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I did hear that it was supposed to rain over the weekend.  I knew that I had to score low the first and second round, so I was a little aggressive.   
 Q.  How much are you itching to win a major this year?  Where is that on the priority list?  
SUNG HYUN PARK: I can't really explain it in words, but I did win a major two years ago and last year, too.  I think I was a little lucky too.  I did close at KPMG, too.   
But I definitely want win another major.  A major is a tournament that everyone wants to win.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT