APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 9, 2012
Francesca Schiavone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. SCHIAVONE/S. Stosur
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Very convincing scoreline obviously.   Did it feel more tight than that, or did you feel in control all the way through?
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:   You are never in control with Sam.   You never know what can she ‑‑   how she can play.
But I think was really aggressive, and she couldn't play her game at the best.   Was tough, tougher than the score.   I think the first set less than the second set.
Second set the level was higher, but I serve really good and I put her pressure.

Q.   Must be hard to play against her never knowing if she's going to club a winner or miss by a mile.
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:   Yeah, I say to the manager just now, five minutes ago, I should have won in Roma in the quarterfinal and she should won here.   So if we can switch...
I think to play against her, it's always really, really tough match.   You have to play top level, and I think anyway it's not easy for her to play here in Australia.
For Australian Open will be different.   She has big power and big shoulders to do it.

Q.   Is that because of expectations here?   Is that why you say it's not easy to play here?   There are a lot people watching.
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:   I think to play home, when you love something, is tough to catch it.
But she has another chance, and the bigger chance is Australian Open.

Q.   Do you think that was something you could maybe capitalize on drawing her first up?
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:   Cosa?

Q.   Did you think that would be in your advantage that she would be under a lot pressure playing here in Australia?
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:   No, but at the end is tennis.   You have to hit the ball and play.   The advantage for me today was I think I was really aggressive.
You know, when someone come inside the baseline and put you pressure, it's not easy.   You have to play really well to come out.

Q.   Is that the mindset you have to adopt against Sam because you know she's going to be so aggressive?
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:   Yes.   That is one way to play against Sam is that one.
Otherwise, she's strong and fast and she put you pressure.   She come inside and no way to defense.   Live or die.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT