QATAR LADIES OPEN
February 23, 2011
Francesca Schiavone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. PENG/F. Schiavone
  7-5, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. I think that's now the fifth time since Paris that you've gone out in sort of your first game. Are you finding your game fluctuating more? Are you worried at all about that?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I was a little bit, yeah, up and down, but I couldn't really, I think, give the maximum every point. For me to go out first round or third round is not the problem. It's how to go out, so that's what I think.  
  
  Q. What are you like when you lose? Are you the sort of person who lets it get inside of you for a long time?   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: What I like when I lose?   
  
  Q. No, no. What kind of person are you, like how do you cope with it? How do you deal with it?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I'm really -- I'm realistic. I look at things how I made it. I analyze, and I take the example to don't do the next time or to build something.   
 For sure this match is not about tennis that should be putting so much pressure. No, when you serve, when you play, you play with the personality, and hitting the ball is something when you play up with body. And one ball in and four out, normal that the opponent got win.  
  
  Q. Did you feel before that you were not at your top?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Yes. I say to the confidence -- I was not confident, but I tried to find the good feeling those days, just yesterday and two days ago. I couldn't do great, but I am this, too.   
  
  Q. Are you really surprised with the way you're playing the Chinese player today? Are you surprised or are you already played against her?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I'm not surprised. She played flat, she tried to push. She doesn't do an amazing job, but she's -- she play with order. She play better in the backhand.   
 Very simple, but like every Chinese people, Chinese girl play, flat, try to put your pressure, play long. Good play.   
  
  Q. Was the wind affecting you or conditions?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: No.  
  
  Q. What happened exactly? What went wrong? Was it serve putting pressure on you?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I would like to say something, but is very -- is very tough. If I can't, don't do it this interview, is better, because is not easy to say something fake. For me it's much better to say the truth.   
 You can win or you can lose. Is poor answer, but I don't know what to say.   
 What do you want to know?   
  
  Q. I mean, you played much below par than you normally play, so that was the most surprising for all of us.   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Suddenly recently you have been playing well, and you came to the tournament with, you know, a positive frame of mind, I suppose.   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Yeah, but I'm positive now, too. But is just a moment you are a little bit sad and you go forward, but is not easy to explain, when you don't play tennis, why is the motivation.   
 So sometimes we have to say some stupid answer, because is a feeling. It's something inside. It's -- don't say bad words.  
  
  Q. Seemed to be missing right from the beginning.   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Yeah, I miss a lot of balls easy, and I try to -- when I was good and open the court, I had the ball here, here, just here in front of the net, and, boom, out. I think when you are not in, you are out.   
  
  Q. You're saying you obviously got something inside you that's not quite happy or enjoying it or something as much as before. I mean, do you just need a couple weeks off? Do you need to relax and then look forward to the clay? The clay is fun, right?   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: No, I should take some days off, but there is no time. I don't know. I will see if yes or not. But sometimes tennis player can decide; sometimes not.   
 So is better that we take good decision on the court and not where to go, how to go, but play tennis and go (motioning with finger to lips).   
 Sometimes you write -- you don't like, but you write. It's the same for us.   
  
  Q. Are you suggesting sometimes you have got to play when you don't want to play?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: No. I don't want to play? No. Because you love your job; I love mine.   
 But sometimes much more tough, and you don't find a good way to say, Okay, we play, we play in a bad way, we fight, we do something.   
 But is not enough, because the things that make the difference, it's always personality, be aggressive, and hitting the ball and later feel the pressure and go in and then play some slice, is my play. So when you do this, it's normal that...   
  
  Q. Yeah, it's tiring. Quickly, where are you going next? What is your next move?   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I don't know.   
  
  Q. Home to sleep?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: No, should be Kuala Lumpur.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT