ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2017
Francesca Schiavone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MUGURUZA/F. Schiavone   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Obviously a difficult, difficult first-round draw here at the French Open.  Can you give us your take on this match and how you felt you performed out there.  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Yeah, tough first match.  You know, when you arrive and you win some matches, then you arrive to the center court, maybe you feel a little bit better.   
But today was really tough.  I think my play could hurt her, but I think I arrive a little bit late, because first set went too fast.  Mistakes, too much.  The other one, take one set advantage is a lot, and the second set, I think I didn't take my opportunity, but I build something.   
 Q.  Having said that, it's maybe your final year and final time playing here, what were the emotions like on court today?  Were you able to put those aside or do you still have them very much in mind and in your feeling during this match?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I think the first three games you could see that I couldn't put one ball in.  And then I say, Wow, I feel like 15 years old (smiling).  I say, Oh, come on.  It's 18 times that you play here.   
This is me.  I am like this.  This is my power.  This is my strength.  I have to manage this.  Anyway, I'm proud of what I did.  I want to keep going and watch this tournament from outside.  Is pain, but because clay, I love to play on clay, but what can you do?   
 Q.  You were so exceptional at times there.  It didn't look like an athlete who is in the last season.  Is there any possibility with you that you have won a clay court tournament already that you might make a return next season?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Can be.  You never know.  For the moment, I want to live this moment this year.  I have to see how I feel physically.  You know, is not easy to wake up and run again for six hours and push yourself.  But we will see.  I think after US Open I will ask to myself what I want to do.   
 Q.  That's quite a change from the start of the season when you were saying definitively this is going to be the last season.  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Si, si, but it's not changing a lot.  I don't want to say something that is not true or yes, but I'm going to say no.  Then if something change -- I don't know.  I didn't think about this.  I'm thinking about Roland Garros and to play this match.  Now to stop a little bit and go to Wimbledon.  That's the most important things for the moment.   
 Q.  Garbiñe called you a legend and she said she couldn't ever imagine playing for so long on the tour with all her injuries and all of that stuff.  When you were a young player arriving here for the first time with big dreams and all of that, did you ever imagine that you'd be here for so long doing this same thing and still loving it?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: No, I didn't imagine, but I couldn't imagine to keep going to play tennis and to arrive so high like I did.   
It's something that you do just step by step, years by years.  Can you see Venus that she's playing 20 years here?  It's amazing.  It's something I think very special that just if you love the sport you can do it.  Just if you go through problems physically and you keep going to work and push your limits every time, I think is fantastic.  I see Venus here, and I say, Wow, this is a big example for everybody.   
I think Muguruza have a long, long season.  Depends how you leave tennis.  If she leave tennis good, will arrive the time for her.  But, you know, now, I mean, she is 23?  I don't know how many.   
 Q.  Have you always loved tennis as much as it appears that you do now?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: No, I hate sometimes tennis (smiling).  Is a big relation.  Is a love that you have to love and then you hate sometimes.  It's like when you marry someone.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  You referred to the strain on your body and the injuries.  Will it be a physical decision when you come round to the US Open to leave or to stay, or is it emotional, mental tiredness that will determine the decision?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: When I start in November, end of November, my preparation was both.  When I say, This is the last push that I do.   
I think is coming both, like decision, mental, heart, physically.  I don't know yet, because I didn't finish.   
But for today I was really impressed for my emotions.  I was really impressed.  I say, Come on.  Let it go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT