FEDCUP FINALS: ITALY v USA
November 7, 2010
Francesca Schiavone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. OUDIN/F. Schiavone
  6-3, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. How do you feel you played today?
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Today I didn't play great. But I think she played a high level of tennis. So the mix couldn't make the difference for me, for sure, but for her.

 Q. How do you think she played compared to the last two times you played her? Different?
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Of course, she played very good this time I think, yeah.

 Q. When did you find out that you were playing Melanie? What was your thought at that moment?
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: One hour before they told me that the team was changed. But I thought yesterday when I saw Mattek with the problems to the legs, I say maybe will play Oudin.

 Q. Could you be specific about the way that Melanie played or what she did that enabled her to be so successful.
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: She know better than me because I didn't understand what was the solution, so... I think she know better (smiling).
 Good rally, big energy. She played really long. Was ready for everything. If I played short ball, long ball, spin, she was ready for anything.

 Q. You've had so many great wins this year and in Fed Cup. You must be very disappointed. Can you explain to us how you're feeling.
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I don't know exactly 'disappointed' in Italian what does it mean. But I feel sad for the team. But with myself, I have to say that sometimes often happen that I win and sometimes I can lose. This is sport; this is tennis. You can't always be 100%. You can't always win your match.
 I know was important point, so for this reason I am upset or sad. But is not finished because this is a team sport. I give what I had today.

 Q. Despite not playing at your best, you seemed to try to play aggressively. Did you try and change your strategy after losing the first set?
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I think was a good way to go aggressive but not with so much rush. Maybe I had a little bit more rush than normal. I should take a little bit more time because she was playing always the same - good, but always the same. I was the person that could make the difference and I didn't.

 Q. Now that your singles year is over, can you look ahead a little bit and how difficult it will be for next year or does this give you more motivation than ever?
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I don't know why the woman make better question than men. It's tougher always answer to a woman. Nothing to take off for the men (smiling).
 No, I think this is a step. I think in life you can't go always up, up, up. Sometimes you have to go down. So I take this experience like one moment of Fed Cup, one single of Fed Cup. I can't take like, okay, I don't want to anymore play, or I want to play now because I'm ready with more motivation, no.
 I can say that I am ready now in this moment for the doubles. Is strange to think about this, but I have to do. And then next year, if the captain believe again in me, I think I will be ready.
 You think I finish and you will go to miss me (smiling)?

 Q. No. I meant your next year on the tour in general.
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: In general, sorry.
 No, no, no. No, it's one match. I won so many (laughter). I know that the journalist, you lose one, change (smiling).

 Q. I meant your whole year this year has been so wonderful. Sometimes players come back the next year and struggle, especially at 30 years old. Are you more motivated?
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Si, I am. Yes, I am. I understand just for Fed Cup, sorry.

 Q. You said that women are better persons.
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I didn't say that. Do you know the difference between man and woman? No material, but other things? I think they go much more in the heart, in the sensibility, in the mind. The man is much more, Okay, this is the way, you go there, you like, you don't like. But we can't live without one each other, so...
 I'm not taking out nothing from you (smiling).

 Q. So in the end, we're okay.
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: You are fantastic (thumbs up).







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT