FEDCUP FINALS: ITALY v USA
November 6, 2010
Francesca Schiavone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. SCHIAVONE/C. Vandeweghe
  6-2, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Francesca.   
  
  Q. Please discuss winning your first match here today, how it feels, how you were able to do it.   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Was a good match for me. I start really well, particularly the first set. Then I went a little bit down 4-3. But the way that I was playing was good. I was aggressive, good defense, a good serve.   
  
  Q. Could you sense nerves in her a little bit at the beginning? Did you feel towards the end, especially when she broke you in the second set, she might have been finding her rhythm in the match a little bit?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Yeah, but the rhythm, she could find it if I give her the chance to do it. So I was keep going, playing along, and she couldn't come in.   
 I think she was playing good, a good serve. She take her chance to come on the net. But I played a solid game. I passed her with some shots. Was not easy today for her, but I think she can play good tennis really because she's strong, power.   
  
  Q. Do you ever get a sense, since winning the French Open, that you can win matches like this just 50% because of your reputation as well as the tennis?   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Absolutely not. I don't believe in these kind of things. I believe that she feel the pressure on the court, not just for the T-shirt or for the name. Because when you serve good, when you don't give her the chance, after she doesn't find the solution or she feel pressure.   
 So if you have more experience, maybe we can play again for all and fight. But she's young, and I think she play a good match for the first time in Fed Cup.   
  
  Q. 2010 was a really big year for you. Can you tell us about your plans for the off-season, for training, and your goals for next year.   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Now holiday and then I will think about (smiling).   
 But I already find something to work on my play. So I have three, four things to work really hard. I'm ready put something about next year, a good project.   
 But my goal for sure is to keep going, to improve, to take my chance in the Grand Slam, to give the best, of course.   
  
  Q. What are those things?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I don't tell you, but I will show you (smiling).   
 No, is something like better serve, maybe find a good technique to work, fix technique. It's more tennis than other things I have to work on.   
  
  Q. What did she want to do today in her game and how did you combat that? How was she attacking you?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: You should ask her. But I think her goal was to give all the energy that she has, because she's young. You can feel when you have an opponent that run and give you many surprise. I think she can give you a surprise like good serve or serve and volley or hit the ball and come to the net. That's a good mix for her. She can do this kind of tactic.   
 But I was ready for everything today, so it was tough for her.   
  
  Q. She said she had problems understanding your game at first. I'm wondering how quickly you could understand what she could do and what she couldn't do, because you never played before, and if that experience was a big factor more in the match?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Yeah, of course. Is like when you did the first interview, how did you feel it? Was the same like today, you can explain to me how was the match, I don't have to explain to you.   
 But some games, some games. But my goal was to play my tennis. And for sure, if I play good spin, aggressive, good defense with my backhand, let her run, for sure is already a problem to her, or is already good tactic for me. Then I felt that on the forehand she could play better. Backhand she was playing just direction. I think some games need a player to understand the other one.   
  
  Q. What went through your mind after her first two serves?   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I say, Oh, God, today is tough (smiling).   
 Was strange because she can play really good serve. But she mix it up a lot: kick, ace, flat, slice. I was ready to receive any service that she wanted to do.   
 But she play just some aces, otherwise was much more tough.   
  
  Q. Last year at this time you weren't a Grand Slam champion, you weren't a top-10 player. Now you come into a match like this and you're expected to win, to beat the younger players. Do you like being in that position?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Yes, because I stayed in the other position for long (laughter). Now is time to stay here in this side.   
 Is exciting. Is really good. I think I can hold these kind of things also because I am 30 years old. I am good experience. I am good physically. Mentally I grow up a lot. It's time to be in this part of the play.   
  
  Q. Butch Buchholz, who runs the Miami tournament, is trying to put together a men's and women's combined event to go really against the Davis Cup and Fed Cup, because he sees problems with it. Would you support a change in playing a combined event or do you like Fed Cup the way it is in this home-and-away series?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: You think, for example, they put Dubai and men in L.A., this is the question?   
  
  Q. No. They're trying to make an event that will go together.   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Together.   
  
  Q. To go against Fed Cup and Davis Cup, try to take the place of it.   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: No, I don't think is correct because Fed Cup and Davis Cup has big history. I think we have to hold these kind of things, history.   
 I hope the combined can be maybe one day Davis and Fed Cup in the same place. That could be interesting. But I love the tournament, combined tournament. So I am already in one side.   
 And about the other tournament, you can take another date. It's no good to limit, to give no-show for Fed Cup and Davis.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT