FEDCUP FINALS: ITALY v USA
November 5, 2010
Corrado Barazzutti
Sara Errani
Flavia Pennetta
Francesca Schiavone
Roberta Vinci
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please, for the Italian team.   
  
  Q. Francesca, what is your reaction to Coco being named to the U.S. team?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I am a little bit surprised because I know all the balance from one player to the other one. I think she's young, she's growing up. She play very good this year. The captain has the chance to study her a little bit more in Asia. So he know how she play.   
 I have a good opportunity tomorrow to give the best and to try to take this point.   
  
  Q. Francesco and Flavia, can you remember the first time you played a Fed Cup match and how difficult will it be for somebody as young as Coco to do that?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, I think the first time I was a little bit nervous, but in the same time very exciting. You play for your country, so it's very nice.   
 You don't have nothing to lose. She play with one of the best player in the world at the moment. Of course, it's going to be a good match for her. But I hope Francesca play really good, to just enjoy all the moment.   
  
  Q. Francesca, how hard do you think it will be for her being so young?   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: You'll have to ask her. But I think is not too hard because she has everything to win. She is good player. She has just to play, to enjoy. I remember the first time was like this also for me.   
  
  Q. Corrado, what is your reaction to Coco's selection? Does it surprise you, given this is a faster surface than last year?  
 CAPTAIN BARAZZUTTI: Well, I think if Mary Joe Fernandez decide to put Coco on the match probably is because she's playing good. Well, for me is not a problem who's playing for the United States. We want is to catch is the three point, the three points that we need to come back in Italy with the Cup. That's it.   
  
  Q. Flavia and Francesca, what is the fatigue factor? Both of you were in Doha last week. You had a travel a long way. Have you been able to adjust? Can you also talk about the surface, what your impression of the surface is.   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Well, you know, we are used to travel so much during the year, so is not a big deal for us to be used for the court, for the jetlag, all this stuff.   
 Of course, the first two days, you don't know where you are, and the time is not easy to catch. But we had already almost one week, and I think for me personally I'm fine. I think also for them.   
  
  Q. Do you feel pressure now as the defending champion as the favorites, because without Venus and Serena...   
 SARA ERRANI: No. We are favorite, but it's a play you have to play in the court.   
 Like Flavia say the other day, every match has to play in the court. You have to do your best. In the court there are no favorites. There are two players. You have to fight every point and try to make your best.   
  
  Q. Francesca, I know you've never played Bethanie, Flavia, you haven't played her in a couple of years, but how do you think you match up?   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Really, I don't know because I don't know her. She is around the WTA circuit, but I never see her play. I need to speak a little bit with the captain and other girls, for sure they will help me.   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: I play against her few times and was always really tight game. So I think I have to play really aggressive. You know, I think in the last two years she improved a lot. So it's not going to be easy for me to play my tennis, but I'm will to try to do that.   
  
  Q. Corrado, not to embarrass Francesca, but her performance at Roland Garros was one of the great victories in recent memories. What was so special about her run to that title?   
 CAPTAIN BARAZZUTTI: For the winner of Francesca?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 CAPTAIN BARAZZUTTI: Well, I think Francesca play absolutely very, very good, very well, and make a great tournament in Paris and improve a lot this year. This is why, because she play so well.   
 Well, I think she find some feeling inside. In that week in Paris, she potential. That two week she find the best game that she can make. She play so, so good, so well, because she have a great potential.   
 That's two weeks she found the best of tennis.   
  
  Q. The week you've had here in San Diego, can you talk about what you've done other than play?   
 FLAVIA PENNETTA: Nothing.   
  
  Q. The American team talks about being so together. What makes you such a good cohesive group?   
 SARA ERRANI: We are trying to stay together in the hotel. We're not doing anything because we don't have too much time.   
 But maybe went one day to outlet in the morning, one day playing cards. Trying to do something together also to stay with the team make good feeling between us.   
  
  Q. What makes you so together?   
 SARA ERRANI: I think we respect each other. We have everybody something good, something not so good. So we know each other and expect what we are.   
 I think this is a very good thing to stay together, also to know how is another person. But you know how it is and you take how it is and you have to accept it.   
  
  Q. Roberta and Sara, if it comes down to the doubles rubber, how important is it going to be the two of you have played so much this year compared to Huber and Oudin?   
 SARA ERRANI: We play together. We feel very good together all the matches. I don't know. Depends how it will be the other matches. But we are ready to play. We enjoy playing together, so we have a good feeling. We hope to play together and...   
 ROBERTA VINCI: ... to win.   
 SARA ERRANI: To make a good match.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT