ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2016
Francesca Schiavone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. MLADENOVIC/F, Schiavone   
6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was quite an emotional moment out there and the crowd was very loud and supportive of you out on this court.  Talk about the match today and your emotions afterwards.  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Emotions about what?   
 Q.  Just during and after the match with the crowd and things like that.  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: No, no, no.  We have to go one step before.  So Roland Garros announced my retirement, but I didn't.  So you can stand up all of you and go back to work in the office because I didn't say that.  I will announce when I will want to stop.   
But that's why.  When I finish, everybody stand up.  I say, I don't know if it's respect, I love, I appreciate this situation.  But I think that everybody thought this because Roland Garros announced it.   
It was not the last one for me.   
 Q.  So sorry for your loss.  In what way do you think that female tennis has changed from 2010 and '11 when you played finals here?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I think a lot of fight.  Much more physically everybody are ready.   
But I think that I drop off.  It's not that they came up so much.  I don't see big difference between 2010 and 2016.  Yeah.   
 Q.  The game hasn't got faster?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: On the clay, no, no.   
 Q.  But about the emotions, because you were quite emotional after the match, was it just because of the loss that made you kind of tear up a little bit, or the crowd?  Why were you so emotional afterwards?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: No, no, of course when I finish I was sad, but I didn't understand why the people stand up.  If was for respect and that's the reason, I'm very thank you and I can understand.  I would like that the sport is like this.   
Doesn't matter with who or the age or what.  The most important thing is to enjoy a match.  I could understand that they were everybody with Mladenovic, which is correct, but is strange.  She is French and here we are in France.   
But then if you respect the opponent, it's great to see the people to clap and enjoy.   
 Q.  I know it's difficult to lose every time you lose, but the loss in the final in 2011, how was that compared to losing first round this year?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: $1 million and then...   
 Q.  Emotionally.  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Yeah, of course.  Was not easy that day, yeah?  Because there is big different between winning Roland Garros and losing final.  You are second and nobody care about you, about your emotion.  You're nothing because everybody are into the winner, and that's correct.   
The big difference is to express yourself or to don't express.  When I play tennis and I lose, it's okay.  It's okay, because you learn many things and you keep going and you work on the stuff that didn't work.   
So everything is going forward.   
 Q.  So losing at 35 is easier than losing at 30?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: No, no, it's not about that.  It's about the tennis.  I don't think that Serena, when she lost in final of Australian Open, she say, Okay, it's my age or not.  No, the age doesn't change the feeling.  The feeling on the court is something that you live in the moment; doesn't matter the age.   
So I lost my...   
 Q.  No, just because when you get older more things in life become more important maybe other than tennis, so maybe losing is not the same emotional de-route.  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: If you want I show you how much I am pissed or that I just had half an hour ago one crash because I start to feel not so good.   
So maybe ten years ago I could break this one and now I just keep inside.  But different kind of feeling.  I think is the same feeling, but I express in a different way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT