FED CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FINAL
November 7, 2009
Corrado Barazzutti
Francesca Schiavone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. SCHIAVONE / M. Oudin
  7-6, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Francesca, talk about at 4-2, were you happy to see the rain? You seemed to regroup really well once you came back on the court.   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Speak in English or...  
  
  Q. In English.   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: I don't think there is lucky or unlucky. I think we were very close when we start. She just won some games more than me, but I felt really close and really that I had chance to take that set.   
 It was not easy, but when we stop, I spoke with them, with the captain, with the other coach, and I tried to find the solution just to win the points, most important points. They give me a good solution.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about the Fed Cup aspect of having a captain on the bench with you. How important? Do you like that?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: No, he's God.   
  
  Q. He's a good coach? God, oh.   
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: He's God. Light. No, he was a big player, so he can understand what's going on when we play. That's, I think, the most important things.   
 Also, the part of humanity is important. So it's good mix that give us balance and good feeling, for me, for Flavia, for all the team. Character and professionality.   
 No, that's true. So we are lucky.   
  
  Q. Corrado, talk a little bit about the difference between playing and having to sit and coach.  
 CORRADO BARAZZUTTI: Much better to play. Much better to play, I tell you. Well, anyway, it's a pleasure to stay, be a captain with a team like this. They give a lot emotion and make a great results.   
 Well, anyway, this match we didn't finish yet, so we have to wait tomorrow. But this team is great. And anyway, I'm staying in the seat, not like a player, like a captain. It's different.   
 But for me, it's as great pleasure. Because when you have a player, you have to stay on the court and fight and fight and fight every points. They make so great the results. It's something really beautiful.  
  
  Q. And tonight, when you go back, obviously you're 2-0 up and excited. You have to kind of say on the team, Let's not get ahead of ourselves. We haven't won yet. Don't get too complacent. We have more matches.   
 CORRADO BARAZZUTTI: Sure, sure. We have tonight just to stay there, focus for tomorrow. We have to talk for tomorrow, for have to play. So the match is not finish. We have to stay there.  
  
  Q. And also, can you just give a little bit of an idea of your thoughts on Melanie Oudin. She's had such a big year with the US Open.   
 CORRADO BARAZZUTTI: Yeah, well, I think that she's 18 years old. She make a great results this year. She's play quarterfinal in Flushing Meadows and make first 16 in Wimbledon, I think.   
 I think she have a great future. And I think also the team, the American team, they have a good future with Melanie, because she's play good.   
 Now, I think maybe she's play much better in the fast court, in the hardcourt and maybe in grass court than clay. I think. That's what I think. She's very younger, so I think she can play very, very well for the future.  
  
  Q. Francesca, you mentioned you talked with Corrado and coaches about coming up with some adjustments during the rain delay. Was Melanie doing anything unexpected at the start of the first set that you adjusted to? And what were you doing after better after the delay?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: We spoke about the attention and maybe not to play too close from the line, but to use the speed and to push her as much as I could and to be aggressive. Not wait, wait, wait.   
 And then I think she felt the pressure that I put. Like person I think experience and screaming and all the crowd and all the team were support me. It's not easy for the other one. I know, because when we play outside, when we play, I don't know, in Russia or in France, it's 5,000 people screaming against you. It's not easy. Maybe she's 18 years old and she felt the pressure. I don't know if she say like this or not.   
 But about playing, I tried to be much more aggressive and about the crowd and how to push her. I tried to do my best.   
  
  Q. Your opponents today, Francesca, they're 18 and 20. What role do you think the added experience of the Italian players had? What difference did that make?  
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: No, of course I'm 29 and Flavia is 27. We played together from five years, I think. Five years. We build a team all together, and we keep going to grow up like players. So these kind of things together can be the maximum of the team.   
 But now, we have to think about tomorrow. I go to sleep, get some rest and, I hope Flavia will be a good match. She will play a good match, for sure.   
 In case, if she lose, I'm ready to play again if the captain call me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT