WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2009
Francesca Schiavone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. DEMENTIEVA/F. Schiavone
  6-2, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Did you find the conditions very tough out there, the heat?
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Yes. I think is not easy to play always in small courts or outside. It's not like Centre Court or Court No. 1. I think I should play some more important matches in Centre Court or Court No. 1. 
 Today I couldn't play my best, but I can't say that was not good tournament, and I want to take these experience for the next one. 

 Q. Did you find nerves got in the way because of all the people?
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: You are small over there (smiling). But I think is experience. If you do all the time you feel better, and a good condition, you know everything what's going on. So today was tough in this kind of thing, so... 
 I take this experience for me. 

 Q. You're listed as living in London. Can you tell me about London life and whether this second-week success at Wimbledon has been something special to you?
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Yeah, for me is special because I have many friends. They came today, but they were upset. I say, No, don't be upset, but enjoy. 
 For me to arrive in second week is good. The life here is strange, often rain. This week there was a good sun, so was a good present. 
 And here is good. Is London. London give you many chance from everything, from business, from friends, from culture. So you can find everything. I'm happy to come here when I can. 

 Q. Did you ever feel like you were actually ever in the game today?
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Not really. I tried. I tried many time. I was not totally out. I did my best to try to play, but I couldn't. I think to keep 11, 12 day, the big tension, I forgot because I did it 2004 and 2001. 
 So is good for me to have this one and try to do another time, and I'm sure that next time will be better.

 Q. What would you say are Elena's greatest strengths as a player?
 FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE: Elena didn't play so good for me, I think personally. She did some mistake, some double-fault, easy. 
 But for her is normal. She play many times quarterfinal. She play many times in a big stadium. 
 She took the chance. She took the breakpoint directly, and I didn't take. She won and I lose. That's the game. Just breakpoint, breakpoint again, I didn't take the chance, breakpoint again. I had like, if I remember, seven or eight breakpoints. 
 She had some, and she took directly straight. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT