U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2013
Francesca Schiavone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WILLIAMS/F. Schiavone
  6‑0, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   I have to ask you about the moment, second game, second set.   We've all been there before.   Sometimes you just need a hug.   Tell me about that.   
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:   A hug?   No.   I don't need a hug in that moment.   I need a game, points.   I don't need the hug.   
No, no I went to the ballboys to say, Well, that's tough.   No, it was just a joke.   
   
 Q.   Just something maybe to mix up what was going on in the match.   
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:   Si.   Maybe relax and see something maybe I couldn't see it.   It was tough today.   Really, really tough.   
   
 Q.   What was your first thought when you saw the draw?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:   Oh, shit.   But it's normal.   When you are there, you have the same.   She has two legs, I have two legs.   Two arms.   We are the same.   We are human.   
One has to win.   She was much, much better today than me.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of Serena as a player?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:   What I think of Serena as a player?   I think is not because she beat me now 6‑Love, 6‑1.   I always say I think she's the best athletes ever had in the world.   We are speaking about some of the best, like Steffi Graf, Billie Jean King, Navratilova.   
We are speaking about something that is really unique.   You know that.   I don't have to say that.   
   
 Q.   Entering a match like this, is there a fundamental strategy in terms of playing Serena, a way that you're typically looking to take points off of her?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:   I think with Serena, you have to play very good serve.   For my play, of course.   It's very different for Azarenka or Sharapova.   Very good serve that today didn't work.   
And mix it up, because that's the key.   She doesn't like up and down.   
But today she was strong, huh?   
   
 Q.   She's a month from turning 32 years old.   
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:   She's old.   Wow!   
I think is a good example Roger.   Many players now, the career, the young player can learn that the career is long and we have the chance and the opportunity to stay healthy much more than before.   You work a lot, really, really hard, so this one can give us the chance to keep going until we feel that it's time to stop.   
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on the retirements recently from the sport with Bartoli and James Blake today.   Is it a different atmosphere around the game now with a lot of people leaving?  
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:   Of course, tennis is going to evolve, is going to grow every part of a person.   Like physically you have to be really, really tough.   Mentally every week you have to fight, marketing.   Before was I think much more simple.   You have to go there.   We have the match now.   There are many things.   
But you can see this part like interesting, not bad.   It's good part.   
Of course, when you feel time to stop, it's time.   I don't say more.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT