FED CUP - USA vs. ITALY
July 19, 2003
Francesca Schiavone
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  You fought very hard in the second set.  Can you talk a little bit about what the difference was. 
 
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:  No, there is no difference because when I start till matchpoint, the last point, I play not so good.  Between the first and the second, for her, is not so easy to win the match because you need to win always, and every points are difficult.  I played not very good, not special, like I can play, but it's okay.  Meghann, she won a good match.  
 
Q.  Was it your forehand?  You had been in wonderful rallies, then your forehand would seem to fly off on you.  Could you just talk a little bit about that part. 
 
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:  My forehand?  
 
Q.  The forehand. 
 
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:  No, but is a good shot.  But today was really tough because for tension maybe and because is completely different situation, Fed Cup for me  - I feel my heart let go like 100 speed.  And, no, my forehand is very good when I stay with my legs, with my foot down, and I don't jump.  But this is a technical mistake, that kind mistake.  I can be a lot of points with my forehand.  I need to study and to practice a lot, but my forehand can be very good shot.  
 
Q.  What is the most difficult part about playing someone like Meghann Shaughnessy? 
 
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:  What is difficult?  
 
Q.  What is the most difficult aspect of playing someone like Meghann Shaughnessy?
 
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:  Meghann, with me, I don't know, but she play always good.  At the end she has had some difficult because to win the match is not so easy  like everybody think, "5-1, okay, is done."  But is not like this.  Meghann, she play good serve, and she play very good when she move from the forehand to the backhand side.  And she push my backhand. But, you know, she is good.  If I don't play like today, was tough.  The result was 6-3, 6-4.  
 
Q.  When you were down 5-1 in the second set, a lot of players would have given up; you made a good comeback.  At what point did you think you might be able to pull this out and maybe take it to a third set and win? 
 
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:  Maybe the point, the breakpoint that I have had in the last game, 5-4, and she mistake the first ball.  I played one backhand out.  You know, if you play inside the court in that point, maybe it can change the match. 
 
Q.  With what state of mind will you approach the match tomorrow? 
 
FRANCESCA SCHIAVONE:  Tomorrow will be tough because Chanda play good.  But we will see because Rita, Rita need to play today, and you never know.  I believe in the play Rita play.  Tomorrow, we will see.  Because I am strange, I can play unbelievable match, I can play very good, and after, the day after, maybe I can lose against one of you (smiling).  So I need to find my balance, and after I will be tough for the other people, the other players.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT