NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2016
Isaac Jordan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Isaac Jordan, your second finalist at 165.  After his victory tonight Isaac is 32-0.  Start off with a brief statement about your match tonight.   
ISAAC JORDAN: I'm happy I won!   
 Q.  Isaac, close match he gets out in the third period, takes you down, ties it up, what's going through your head?  How did you come back in that third period, get the take down and ultimately win that?  
ISAAC JORDAN: Starting the third we figured -- he deferred to me in the second, so in the third he picked the top and we figured he would do that.  He picked that every time besides the first one and he thought he could beat us there and when I got away I relaxed.  I've been working on that so much.  He took me down right away, so I had to refocus, get my composure back.  He got the leg and we worked on that a lot, so that was a big deal.   
 Q.  Isaac, I'm sure you're getting tired of getting asked about this family thing, but it is a big deal, no other families do it.  Can you talk about -- do you ever talk to Bo about this?  Do your families talk about this?  You know it's going to happen.  In fact, early in the year he was going to wrestle up a weight but he came back down.  What did that do to you?  
ISAAC JORDAN: I think they thought it was best for Ohio State and best for the team, so I didn't hold it against him.  I knew I would wrestle him at least twice going into the year.  We talked about it before, and actually before the match we met in the bathroom.  We both needed to use the restroom and he looked at me and said, man this sucks.  It's tough with family, but it's just a wrestling match.  So we'll get past it.   
 Q.  Your dad won this tournament and I just saw him on TV rooting for you.  Did you get to chat with him about the special nature?  He beat a guy, John Smith in the NCAAs, which a lot of us remember, which was a big night for him and a great achievement.  How important will it be that you have your dad around and he might tell you a little bit about the finals night?  
ISAAC JORDAN: Having him here, you know, is emotional, I guess.  He's been a really big part of my growing up and my wrestling abilities, and we watched his match against John Smith a few times and you can see the emotion and the celebration.  I just want to do the same thing, beating a guy like Dieringer would be to the same degree of him beating John Smith.  So I feel like that's something he can give me good advice on.   
 Q.  Isaac, what did you guys say after the match?  
ISAAC JORDAN: Nothing, I gave him a hug, that's all that needs to be said.   
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Isaac.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT