BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 28, 2013
Kyung-Tae Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CALVIN KOH:   Thanks for coming, K.T.   I think this week you are likely to finish as the leading Korean.   Maybe sum up how the last four days have been at the Ballantine's Championship. 
K.T. KIM:   Thank you very much.   I'm very much satisfied with the result that I had the past four days. 
Of course I could have done better on the final hole in the final, fourth round.   But overall, I improved what I aimed to improve the four days, so overall I'm satisfied.   I think that through this occasion, I can have a better start in the next tournament. 
CALVIN KOH:   As you look back at the last four days, what would you say is the highlight of your week? 
K.T. KIM:   Well, I think that every round was important for.
Me.   However, I would say that the highlight was the second round, definitely.   I think that because of that good result, I was able to carry on till the final day. 
Though in the second round, in the first nine, there were some risky points where I could fall or drop below the cut line.   However, thanks to the birdies that I scored, I was able to recover my confidence, and I had the energy to continue on for the next two days. 

Q.   So you scored birdies continuously in the fourth round; however, you ended with a bogey on the par518th hole.   So could you compare what happened? 
K.T. KIM:   Yes, until yesterday, I think that I scored a lot of birdies, as well as bogeys.   So today my aim was to make as few bogeys as possible, so I did my best with my second iron shots. 
Obviously I was able to score four birdies, and I definitely had a lot of chances and opportunities to score more.   However, unfortunately, I did actually manage up until the 17th hole without a bogey. 
However, at the 18th hole, I've scored a bogey because I think that I missed my tee shot.   For the past four days, my tee shot at the 18th hole was not that good, so I did not have that much confidence, and I think that led me to miss my tee shot at the 18th hole, and also my putting I think could have been better. 

Q.   Obviously you are among the best of the Korean players this time around, however it would have been better if you were best among the entire group of players.   But anyways, I ask this question to Mr.Hyung‑sung Kim, as well, but what do you see as the major difference between Korean players and European players? 
K.T. KIM:   For the past six years, it's very unfortunate that no Korean player was able to take the trophy for the Ballantine's Championship. 
In my personal opinion, I see there is a difference between Korean players and European players.   Yesterday, we definitely had huge, swirling winds, and I think that European players tend to do much better amongst that huge wind because obviously they have experience in Asia, Europe and even Africa.   I think that that made them better adapt to a different environment. 
During the four days, yes, I was able to tell that European players definitely do have an upper edge in terms of their short games, and because of their strength, I think that they were able to manage to score par, even if they make small mistakes. 

Q.   So, your future plans? 
K.T. KIM:   Well, definitely, I will be flying over to Japan tomorrow to attend a tournament and I will be coming back to Korea to be part of the Maekyung Open, and I will be going back to Japan to play another match.   And then for some time, I will be taking some rest. 
So in the first half of this year, there are not that many Japanese tournaments, so I will be traveling back and forth between Korea and Japan, so I will be focusing more on the Japanese tournaments. 

Q.   What about the U.S.?
K.T. KIM:   I can't go even if I wanted to. 
CALVIN KOH:     With that, good luck, thanks and see you at next year's Ballantine's Championship. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT