WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 3, 2012
Kyung-Tae Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. No bogeys out there today, very good playing.   How did you find the golf course?   
K.T. KIM:   You know, I played quite solid today.   The driver off the tee was great.   I think I missed about three greens today.   I was a little bit shaky on the back nine, or the front nine for me, probably missed about three tee shots, but overall it's been great.   I'm playing quite solid.   I'm looking forward to the next two rounds.   
   
 Q.   Obviously you've played on grand stages all over the world.   Are you getting more comfortable here in the States?   
K.T. KIM:   You know, it does take a little time to get used to, the grand stage.   I'm finally getting used to it.   I'm finally getting used to the grass of not just the PGA TOUR but also the American culture, so it's getting easier by the day.   I haven't really had a good season so far.   Hopefully this can propel the latter stage of my career.  
   
 Q.   The Presidents Cup obviously a huge issue, a huge platform for you last year.   Do you look back on that and say if I can do that I can do anything I need to do?   
K.T. KIM:   It's funny that you mention the Presidents Cup because that's why I'm here actually.   That's how I was able to get into the field.   I didn't really have a good month prior to the Presidents Cup, and ever since it's been a little bit of a downward spiral for me.   But I think today sort of reflects that I am getting back in shape, getting back in form, so hopefully with the Presidents Cup and with this WGC event, I can probably get better as the year goes by.  
   
 Q.   How are you and Andy Barnes working out?   
K.T. KIM:   Definitely have to give props to my caddie Andy today.   He saved probably three or four putts today.   He read the green quite well for me.   It's been a little bit of a weakness for me sometimes on the U.S. Tour, and Andy has been‑‑ he's like me, very quiet and not flamboyant or anything.   I think we're a solid player and caddie combo.   I've been with him, this is my fourth tournament with him, and I think there's some chemistry going on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT