BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 26, 2012
Kyung-Tae Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CALVIN KOH:   Let's just start off by talking about your round today.   
KT KIM:   So my feel for the shots that I made was not very bad, and I don't think I had too many difficult challenges.   I'm overall satisfied with the play and with my game today.   
Of course I made a few small mistakes, and so I lost some scores.   Especially where the distance of a hole was short, I missed a few chances for birdie.   But considering the very strong winds today, I'm very satisfied with the score that I have, and if I can continue with the game that I showed today, I'm sure that I will be able to do pretty good for the rest of the round.   
   
 Q.   So I think your tee shots were very good, but compared to your usual state, I think your second shots were facing a bit of difficulties.   I think you had a hard time getting the accurate distance, the right distance.   Was the wind a factor in this?   
KT KIM:   Actually the wind was not too much of a big challenge.   The wind did not blow in the same direction.   The wind was actually blowing‑‑ the direction of the wind changed for every hole.   
Sometimes there was no wind before I made my shot, but then after I made my shot the wind started blowing.   So I think the other two players also had difficulty getting the right distance because of the wind.   For instance, when there was less than one hundred yards, I couldn't make it, I came up about 20 yards short.   
So because of the wind, there were some difficulties.   
   
 Q.   So I think compared to last year, I was wondering if there were personal changes in terms of distance or your swing?   
KT KIM:   I think my distance is the same, but before I focused 90 per cent on the draw, but after some difficulties with my shots, I've been focusing on a fade.   
So in the first round when I use fade shots, then my results for the second and third rounds do not turn out very well, and this actually impacted my next game.   
So I've been focusing on the draw and I think in the earlier stages, there were some difficulties, but it's picking up.   So right now, I'm in my fourth week, and I'm completely focusing on my draw strategy.   
CALVIN KOH:   Thank you, good luck.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT