STATE FARM MISSOURI VALLEY CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2019
Darian DeVries
Tremell Murphy
Brady Ellingson
Anthony Murphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Drake - 78, Illinois State - 62
THE MODERATOR: The victorious Bulldogs are with us.  They have a date tomorrow in the semifinals against the winner of SIU and Northern Iowa.  It will be Game 2 of our doubleheader on Saturday.  We're going to ask Coach DeVries to open up with a statement.
DARIAN DeVRIES: I was certainly proud of our guys' effort tonight.  I thought they really competed and left it all out there.  This time of year, that's what it's all about is finding a way to advance for the next day.  These guys played with the same tremendous effort and resiliency and unselfishness they've played with all year, and I couldn't be more proud of them.
Q. I speak for everyone here when I ask how is Nick McGlynn?
DARIAN DeVRIES: We're not sure what his status will be.  We'll hopefully find out a little later tonight or tomorrow morning.  He couldn't compete today.  Would love to have him back.  Obviously, he's meant a lot to us.  If he can't go, we'll have to find a way and have some guys step up similar to the way they did today.
THE MODERATOR: A side note there.  Nick is getting treatment and will not be available in the locker room after these proceedings are finished.
Q. Tremell, with what you guys have gone through this year with Nick and D.J. going down, how much even when Nick goes out was there no panic and you guys were able to keep rolling right along there?
TREMELL MURPHY: We just kept together, kept a straight face, and just kept playing hard.
Q. Coach, just how impressed were you kind of with how everybody was able to handle that early adversity and really kind of keep the foot down there early?
DARIAN DeVRIES: As we said, these guys have a tremendous belief in one another.  They don't care who gets the credit.  They just love to compete.  Whatever guy we throw out there, they've prepared themselves.  They've all put themselves in a position to go out there and perform, and I think it's a credit to all of them that they're ready to go and ready to play their role when they get out there.  None of these guys care at all about anything but winning, and that's what I think you saw today.
Q. Darian, could you talk about the adjustments defensively you made from the last time you played Illinois State.
DARIAN DeVRIES: We actually thought the last time we played them we guarded them a lot better than the first time.  The first time, they had their way with us.  The second time I thought we did a better job.  We just tried to clean up a few things from a principle standpoint that I thought our guys really locked in on and did a nice job.  They have so many weapons.  It's hard to take away everything.  When you double Fayne or Yarbrough, you're giving up some threes and things.
I think a lot of it just came down to the guys really fought.  I think that kind of helped us keep them in check a little bit, with just our overall fight.  But Fayne still had 18.  He's such a good player.  Yarbrough had a tough night from the floor, so that's -- you know, he doesn't have a lot of those type of nights, so we were fortunate in that way.  And just proud, like I said, just proud of the guys' effort.  We flew around and played with some tenacity, and that was probably the biggest difference for us tonight.
Q. With all the variables that come into play with a tournament setting and shots can fall some nights and not others, when you get off to a start like that, what does that do for everybody when you get off to a start like that?
ANTHONY MURPHY: It gets everyone going.  Once one guy makes a shot, the other person thinks they're going to make a shot.  Just a continuation and hit us in the right way.
DARIAN DeVRIES: You know you had ten rebounds, though?
ANTHONY MURPHY: Oh.
Q. Again, as we head into the locker room, what kind of confidence booster does that give you guys heading into that again?
ANTHONY MURPHY: It just gave us a little momentum, and by Coach emphasizing we've got 40 minutes of play.  That's another 20.  We have to keep fighting and keep striving and come up with the victory.
Q. Brady, you guys lost Nick Norton, then you lost D.J. Wilkins, then you lost Nick McGlynn, those earlier ones, losing those guys, did that kind of help you get through McGlynn being out tonight?
BRADY ELLINGSON: I think so.  We've got a tough-minded group, and we've got a next-man-up mentality.  The guys who played, they gave it their all.  Antonio, he was great off the bench.  He gave us what we needed, and he was a force in the middle.  Those two guys really helped us get the win today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT