ICC CHAMPIONS TROPHY
June 3, 2017
Upul Tharanga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
South Africa won by 96 runs 
 Q.  How pleased were you to keep them to just under 300?  Did you feel that was a good effort?  
UPUL THARANGA: It is a very good effort. They were really, in the middle period, at one time it's like they are going to get nearly 325-330. I think the bowlers came very hard and kept them under 300 is a very good effort.   
 Q.  What did you make of Lasith Malinga's first game back after a long injury layoff?  
UPUL THARANGA: Yeah, I feel like he's okay. He didn't come to his … like he is two years back. But I think he's getting better and better. He bowled … even he didn’t get any wicket.  He bowled well in the up front, but even in the death.   
 Q.  Took an extra 40 minutes for you guys to bowl your overs innings, over four hours.  Is there a reason it took so long?  Are you concerned that it took that much longer and how it might hit you and your team?  
UPUL THARANGA: Yeah, I think I feel, we were like … slow.  Even when they were playing the middle overs, … the main thing is in the field, between overs also we were a bit slow. Umpire told me also in the 40th over that we were three overs behind. I knew like last six-seven overs, definitely we need the time.  So after 40th over, didn't think about it that much.   
 Q.  You seemed to be going quite well in the chase up to a point.  Where do you think it changed?  You mentioned Imran Tahir would be a threat yesterday.  Obviously it was him again.  But just what was the problem with the approach?  
UPUL THARANGA: Well, even he got four wickets in the middle period, but I think we started well. But Dickwella and Kusal Mendis, I think, both get out very short period of time.  And even when me and Chandimal are batting, we are trying to get a partnership.  I think that run out, and next ball, Kapugedara got out.  So I think after that, even our run rate is good.  I think losing four wicket in first 20 overs, chasing 300 is not easy.  So only thing is like as a batsman, I think we had to get those big scores and get the partnership in the middle overs.   
CHECKED BY WISDEN INDIA   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT