ICC CHAMPIONS TROPHY
June 2, 2017
Upul Tharanga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Angelo is having a fitness test later.  How is he?  
UPUL THARANGA: Yeah, I think he's having a fitness test like today also, so we are going to look tomorrow morning, as well.  So I think final decision, we think by tomorrow morning.   
 Q.  Obviously South Africa go into the game as favourites, having beaten you guys 5-0 in South Africa.  How is the mood in the camp leading up to this tournament?  
UPUL THARANGA: Yeah, I think they have played against us in the last series but I think we know what are the areas we have to improve.  Like since the run in England, I think we have done well so far.  I think especially even we didn't win the games, I think we have a better feeling has been improved lots.  The main thing is that bowling is also getting more improved with Lasith Malinga coming into the side, his knowledge and experience.  Like I said, we were like -- loss to them 5-0, but I think we feel we have a good confidence in tomorrow's game.   
 Q.  And as for you, what's your role going to be?  Are you going to be an opener or batting the middle order?  
UPUL THARANGA: No, I'll play as an opener.   
 Q.  With many teams chasing 300 easily what will be the Sri Lankan hope, to bat first or to bowl first?  Have they decided yet?  
UPUL THARANGA: No, that one, didn't decide yet.  Also during the practice games and in the first game, also, I think high-scoring games.  Yeah, it depends I think even if we bat first or second, it's good side, is like really good very batting friendly wickets.  So hopefully tomorrow will be like high-scoring game.   
 Q.  Now that Allan Donald is part of the team management, how much information has he been passing on to you about some of the South African players?  
UPUL THARANGA: I think he has seen the South African team, as well.  A lot of I think his knowledge and what he knows about the South African, he shared the information, especially with the bowlers as well, how the players are doing.  Yeah, those things, I think he's a fantastic bowler and a very experienced player.  I think he has been playing in England County, also, like so many years.   
 Q.  Who will be the most likely partner for you?  Will it be Dickwella or Kusal?  
UPUL THARANGA: Tomorrow, Dickwella.   
 Q.  How much would you say has changed for the Sri Lankan side between February when you were in South Africa and now, especially in terms of the batting?  
UPUL THARANGA: Especially in South Africa, I think we have been missing like a few players.  Like Angelo is not there, and like even if they got a batting lineup, I think we have mix players, mix some experience players and some young players.  Especially if you take Dickwella, Mendis and Asela, those players have been really good, like last six, eight months.  Even now, Kapugedara is coming into the side, a lot of experience.  I think especially if you take a tournament like especially ICC tournament, Sri Lanka has always done well.  So we have that confidence.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT