WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2007
Akiko Morigami
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You had a determined opponent today in Venus.  What did you find most challenging about her play?   
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  Well, definitely challenging was just me, I think, because I try to not think about who I'm playing against, even though when I was up 5-3 in the third, obviously she's a champion, she's not going to give me anything, I have to go get it.  But that was the most tough part, as well.   
 I really think she stepped up when she needed to.  So that was -- I think that was different, as well.   
  
  Q.  How frustrating was that for you, because you seemed to really have control of the match for a lot of it.   
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  Yeah, I think I came out pretty good, especially the first couple games.  But I tried to focus on my things, but she's obviously a champion.  She's always playing well towards the end, and she served up pretty good.  But it's a little bit frustrating for me, but I definitely have to give a lot of credit for her.   
  
  Q.  You said something about her height when she hit a forehand, you said something like she was tall or something?   
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  No, because I hit a pretty good forehand down the line, then I came into the net and she hits an unbelievable angle.   
 I got it, I thought it was a perfect drop volley, but she got to it and she made a shot.  She was really long.  I mean, everything long.  Long arm, long legs.  Everything for her is maybe three steps, and me, I have to move maybe ten more steps more than her.  I was like, gosh, she's so long.  That's what I said.   
  
  Q.  She complimented you on being a tough opponent, and actually in the third set in particular you seemed quite evenly matched.  Were you pleased with your play?   
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  You know, I'm pretty satisfied how I played, and I think if I kept playing like this I think I definitely have a chance to beat top players.  But at the same time I'm pretty disappointed because I couldn't serve it up when I was up 5-3.   
 Yeah, I mean, now I really think it's top player -- I think definitely I can play in that level.   
  
  Q.  How tough was that last game, because it was like raining and obviously she wanted to play through it and get it over?   
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  Yeah, I thought -- it's a little bit tough conditions for me because it's a heavy condition today, you know?  She served up really good.  She hit a couple of body serve, and she's serving like over 120.   
 Me, I'm trying to hit it as hard as I can.  Still goes 102, 105 at the fastest.  But that's her thing, I think.  Well, it just for me was pretty satisfying how I played, but I have to keep it up and see how it goes.   
  
  Q.  Was it tough yesterday?  You kind of like had a whole day to think about you were 4-1 up.   
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  I tried not to think about it, then I tried to focus on my game and I definitely tried not to think about what's Venus going to come up and play, just have to try to focus on myself.   
 I think I did a pretty good job, but I guess it wasn't enough to beat her.  But definitely I learned a lot of things.  So let's see how it goes for next time.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT