WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2006
Akiko Morigami
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT










 Q.  Congratulations on a good comeback today.  Were you in some ways happy that there was rain yesterday, that gave you a chance to -- 
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  I would say so, yes.  Obviously, I didn't feel too well in the first set and then it was definitely good rain for me. 
 And then I felt a little bit uncomfortable, I mean, very first set because I was nervous a little bit because of Wimbledon.  Then I was playing well until last week and I expect myself that I am playing well, but it's always tough to play in the first round. 
 But I found a way to win today, so I'm very happy that I won. 

 Q.  What was the big difference today in terms of your own game? 
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  Well, still in the beginning of the second set I was down 2-0, and then I was down a break.  But I was telling myself, "Well, you never know until you shake the hands.  I just gonna compete, I just gonna try to find a way to win."  I think I can do that.  I'm very happy the result. 

 Q.  You battled really hard. 
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  Yes.  Well, yes, especially in the second set, I try to win the second set so hard.  I just, well, I think it's fighting and competing, never change.  So I think I could compete pretty well today, so I'm very happy. 

 Q.  How positive did you feel today considering yesterday's outcome? 
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  Well, I just try to think positive, that's my coach told me all the time.  Even if you lose a point, win a point, doesn't matter, just stay in the positive.  I think I can do that. 
 Well, still, in the beginning of the second set, I was not feeling the court.  I wasn't feeling -- everything just didn't go my way. 
 But, well, anything can happen.  So just try to positive and try to compete.  That's, I think, what I could do that. 

 Q.  And now you're through to the second round.  How positive do you feel about the rest The Championships? 
 AKIKO MORIGAMI:  Well, now I am playing against another Japanese player, Ai Sugiyama.  I respect her as a person, as a player, so I'm really happy to play against her.  I just want to play my best tennis and then see how it goes (smiling). 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT