NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v WARRIORS
May 17, 2016
Harrison Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you feel everyone's ready?
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, everybody's ready for the challenge.  Coming up here tomorrow.  We haven't really been down in a playoff series this year yet.  So we have to just get back to being who we are and have more poise.
Q. What's the feeling the day after for you guys?  Is it frustration that you let one get away or disappointment, anger?  What is the emotion?
HARRISON BARNES: Just motivated.  We lost our poise there a little bit, started turning the ball over.  We just got frantic toward the end of the game.  Coming into this game we're going to need to be sharper, especially from the get-go and just cutting down on the mental mistakes.
Q. How much mentally stronger do you think you guys are at this point this year than say last year before the championship and you got through the series?  Do you feel you're stronger mentally as a group after that experience?
HARRISON BARNES: We're definitely stronger.  Being down 2-1 in two series on the road for Game 4 has definitely given us the resilience.  But at the end of the day you have to take care of the little things and that's what plagued us.  We've been in those situations before.  We just need more poise.
Q. How do you guys block out the feelings of doom and gloom, that kind of thing, whether it's from outside and fans or whatnot?  You guys seem to have gotten pretty good at that.
HARRISON BARNES: I think it's a little early for doom and gloom.  It's just one game.  But our focus has always just been sticking to what we do.  We've had success doing that for a couple years now, and I think if we just relax and just breathe we'll be fine.
Q. How do you feel about Draymond [Green] being on the cover of SI?
HARRISON BARNES: Oh, I didn't see it, but that's great.  That's fantastic.
Q. What about the jinx?
HARRISON BARNES: Oh, is there a jinx?  I'm not familiar with it.
Q. Sometimes there is.
HARRISON BARNES: I wouldn't put too much stock in that (laughing).  I don't put too much stock into it.
Q. Was last night's outcome kind of a surprise?
HARRISON BARNES: What do you mean a surprise in?
Q. The outcome of the game.
HARRISON BARNES: No, they're in the Western Conference Finals for a reason.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT