NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 13, 2015
Harrison Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How much does your versatility play a part in how you adjust to teams?   Because once you've adjusted, you've taken off.   Is versatility a big part of it? 
HARRISON BARNES:   It's huge.   I think our small ball lineup has been very successful for us.   We've gone to it a lot in late‑game situations.   (Indiscernible) it was different, but it was good to put our offense in it.

Q.   Do you think maybe you should have done that earlier in Games 2 and 3? 
HARRISON BARNES:   Not necessarily.   Obviously we won Game 1 with our normal lineup.   We've had a great season with our normal lineup.   So it's something we went through last season to get our offense going.   So whether we stick with it or go back to the old one, we'll see.

Q.   They're obviously playing a smaller rotation, but does the extra day off make an impact in how fresh you are in the deeper rotation? 
HARRISON BARNES:   Yeah.   The games being at 9:00 o'clock there, you're eating at 2, 3 a.m., get on a flight.   Kind of out of it a little bit yesterday.   So to be able to come back today, sweat it out, kind of get back into a normal rhythm is good.

Q.   The last game was different, so when you play (indiscernible)?
HARRISON BARNES:   You still got to guard LeBron, even though they're going to play some four and guard bigger guys. 
But anytime you're in The Finals against a great player and great team, it's a once‑in‑a‑lifetime moment.   So you're definitely going to try to embrace it, try to soak all this stuff up and live in the moment.

Q.   But it's not easy for you when you're playing small ball, or would you prefer to with the strategy? 
HARRISON BARNES:   Yeah, I like small ball.   You definitely have to be more aware when you play small because I'm more the help side defender.   Guarding LeBron, the focus is LeBron.   Off the ball, you're making sure to help, not only on him, but if somebody else gets beat and all that type of stuff.   So you have to be more aware when you play the four.

Q.   What is your respect level when you say LeBron might be showing you guys when you shut him down in the last game?   Is he kind of tipping his cap a little bit or is he still kind of the dominant player in terms of believing that he can kind of basically take you guys on? 
HARRISON BARNES:   Yeah, I don't know.   Obviously we're in The Finals.   So you think that he'd respect us, but we're not necessarily going around and looking for that.

Q.   Harrison, the Warriors are a young team.   But do you think the Warriors with Andre Iguodala has contributed significantly in the game?   How much does it mean to you to have a player that's got significant playoff experiences? 
HARRISON BARNES:   It's huge.   I mean, for Andre to sacrifice all year and play his role and to be with it and just stay ready.   For him to come out in his first start of the season and help us big time in that game, not only offensively, but defensively, that was great.

Q.   How much defensive benefits of playing small?   We all see the small ball was much better in the previous game, but how does it contribute? 
HARRISON BARNES:   It's huge because it allows us to switch.   1 through 5 on the court, we can switch, we can move, we can rotate.   We get out and run more on offense, and it allows us to flow better.

Q.   What's it say about Andre that he can not start all season and come right in and do the job he did?   You kind of know how swinging back and forth can be difficult, and for him to come up with that performance right away? 
HARRISON BARNES:   Sure, it speaks volumes to the fact that he's able to stay ready.   To come off the bench all season, first start, NBA Finals, a big game and come out big for us.   Playing offensively and defensively too, he was huge. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT