NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 6, 2015
Harrison Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Do you get down at all a little bit after last season when shooting percentage is a little lower this year?   You're up around 50.   Did you have a point over the summer last summer where you not doubted yourself, but did you get down on the way you performed the second year? 
HARRISON BARNES:   Oh, for sure.   Last year was definitely very tough.   At the end of the season it was kind of like you have to put that behind you and try to start fresh, come into the season with a new mindset.

Q.   Harrison, what are some of the things that Dellavedova does in the defensive end that people just don't see? 
HARRISON BARNES:   I think just the little things.   He's really good at kind of irritating defenders.   Always staying with guys and always being that nuisance. 
A lot of times people look at great defenses, steals, blocks and stuff like that, but it's things like that that can get a guy out of his rhythm.

Q.   On the other side of the court, what's it like to defend the Cavs with Kyrie on the floor versus Delly? 
HARRISON BARNES:   Well, with Kyrie on the floor you're definitely looking to create.   Definitely looking to get to the basket and do all those types of things.   With Dellavedova on the floor, he's going to be looking to shoot.   Especially with LeBron, he's a great spot‑up shooter, so you definitely have to worry about getting it out to him.

Q.   In film sessions over the past couple days, has there been a lot more film around Delly versus Kyrie? 
HARRISON BARNES:   We didn't know until yesterday that Kyrie was going to be out of the game.   But for the most part we still approach it the same way.   Just because even when Kyrie's playing, Dellavedova could have a good night.   We approach it regardless whether he plays 10 minutes or 30 minutes.

Q.   Saw you watching the soccer game over there.   Which teams are playing? 
HARRISON BARNES: Barcelona ‑ Juventus.

Q.   Do you have a favorite team? 
HARRISON BARNES:   Barcelona.

Q.   Does that translate to basketball, watching soccer? 
HARRISON BARNES:   A little bit, if you're talking about movement.   Obviously on a soccer field there is a lot of movement.   Sometimes if it's your first time watching it, it can be kind of difficult to understand what's going on.   Oh, why are they kicking the ball backwards and that type of thing. 
But once you understand that movement and how everyone wants to work on their strengths the same way as basketball.   Five guys have to work on the court together to achieve the common goal.

Q.   Did you play any other sport growing up? 
HARRISON BARNES:   I did track.   I had a brief stint in football, and then soccer.

Q.   Did the Cavs express serious interest in you in 2012?   They had that fourth pick.   Did you ever think you'd be playing here for that team?   It could have gone that way, actually? 
HARRISON BARNES:   It definitely could have.   Yeah.

Q.   During that process, did they express interest? 
HARRISON BARNES:   Yeah, I worked out for them.   I definitely interviewed for them.   I thought in the back of my mind I might have gone there, but that's not how the cards fell. 
I'm definitely glad to be here right now.

Q.   Did you immediately see even though you may have slipped a few spots that night that this was kind of an ideal situation for you to flourish playing around such talented guys? 
HARRISON BARNES:   It was.   I definitely think this was the best fit for me draft night.   Yeah, it's crazy how it all turned out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT