NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 3, 2015
Harrison Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's it like as a young player being in your first Finals and your first media day?   
HARRISON BARNES:   It's good.   Obviously, being in The Finals is something we all dreamed of and to be able to do it.   It's some of our third years, but for most of us, it's our first time.   It's a special experience, so you want to take it on.  
   
 Q.   Can you describe the challenge you've had with a guy your opposite number, LeBron James on the opposite team, being here the fifth straight time?   Can you describe that challenge?   
HARRISON BARNES:   He's one of the greatest players in our game today, so he's obviously going to be a handful.   You know he's going to get his points, but you obviously want to make him work for those.   And he does a good job getting his teammates involved.   Obviously, limiting guys like J.R. Smith, Iman Shumpert, Tristan Thompson, Dellavedova, make sure those guys don't get easy stuff.  
   
 Q.   Do you consider yourself the X‑factor of the series?  
HARRISON BARNES:   I don't know if I'd go that far.   I mean, I definitely want to contribute.   Obviously, they're going to be focusing a lot of attention on Steph and Klay, but it's our job as the supporting cast.  
   
 Q.   When you have to turn it on, you will turn it on.   You scored nine consecutive points in Game 5 and finished with 24.   Who was the real Harrison Barnes?   The guy in the regular season or the guy in the postseason?   
HARRISON BARNES:   I guess the guy right now because that's where we're at is the present moment.   I definitely love the big stage and I love being here right now.   Definitely just want to try to play to the best of my ability.  
   
 Q.   Do you ever doubt they'll get you the ball when you're hot?   You're not the first option or second or even third when it comes to offense, but do you ever worry about getting the ball?   
HARRISON BARNES:   Not at all.   Just going throughout the regular season there are definitely a lot of ups and downs in terms of shot attempts and scoring 9 (Indiscernible) in the third.   I've just gotten used to just trying to have an impact on the game whether I'm shooting the ball or not.   The shots will come.   I'm definitely confident in my teammates finding me.   Steph's got great court vision, as well as Shawn and Andre and all those guys.   If I'm hot, I have no worries they'll give me the ball.  
   
 Q.   This is the type of thing guys aspire to to come here and see this does it sort of bring it all home for you?   
HARRISON BARNES:   I think the very first time you step on the floor, I think that will kind of bring it full circle.   It's still kind of like, wow, we're here.   Obviously, put in a lot of work in the season, and The Finals is somewhere you want to aspire to be, a champion is what you aspire to be.   But to be here right now, it's still kind of like you're still taking it all in.  
   
 Q.   With Harden you guys were willing to live with contested step-back jumpers.   LeBron is shooting 30% on jumpers in the postseason.   Is the formula the same to make sure he doesn't get to the rim, give him space and you'll live with those kind of jumpers?   
HARRISON BARNES:   Obviously, it just depends how he's playing.   If he's getting hot from three, obviously you can't say we'll keep living with that.   You have to change how you're guarding him.   But him getting to the rack, he's shown that he can finish over anybody.  
   
 Q.   Are there things you can do when he's playing not only to contest him in terms of the shot, but when you're guarding him specifically, try to prevent him from passing?   Are there things you can do?     
HARRISON BARNES:   Obviously, he's one of the best in the game at that.   He's seen so many different coverages.   A lot of people try to take him out of his rhythm and that type of thing.   But the biggest thing is make him uncomfortable, make him do things that he doesn't get in a rhythm, a groove, because when he does, he can win games and series.  
   
 Q.   Take yourself back to Game 5 when you were in the zone and scored nine consecutive points.   What is going through your mind?   What is the feeling you have when you're playing to the best of your ability?   
HARRISON BARNES:   Honestly, nothing's going through my mind.   It's kind of like you're just moving out there.   You're not really thinking that you're trying to overcompensate.   Or go out there and try to score a whole bunch of baskets.   You're playing in the flow of the game and kind of just in that zone.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT