NBA AFRICA GAME 2018
August 1, 2018
Harrison Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I was wondering, have you been to South Africa before, and either way, I was wondering if you could sort of put into words what it means to you to play in this event.
HARRISON BARNES: This is actually my first time being in South Africa, first time being in Johannesburg, and it's been just a great experience for me to take in the culture, to work with the kids today.  We had a chance to get on the court with them, and then to do some life skills activities with them and just to see the culture, whether it's dancing, singing, playing games, these kids have so much passion and fire in their eyes.  It really makes me appreciate the game of basketball that has been able to take me all across the world, that I'm here able to spread the game of basketball, but at the same time, as well, it's been able to bring together a lot of people from a lot of different places.  It's been a great couple days so far, excited for the next couple more and to be able to play in the game.
Q. Basketball Without Borders has done a lot for promoting basketball internationally.  In your words, what makes it so important that basketball is an international sport and that the NBA helps develop it and makes sure it grows across the world?
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, I mean, I think Basketball Without Borders is huge just because of the platform that basketball is.  I mean, the game is on fire right now, just expanding overseas and just globally, and I believe that coming here and doing a basketball camp, that's good, that's great.  I think it has an impact on the kids.  But the fact that we're able to make a donation to the Nelson Mandela Foundation and learn more about the work they're doing here in the community, to be able to go out tomorrow with Habitat For Humanity and literally help build 10 homes with brick and mortar and actually get out there in the community and get involved, I think that's what makes Basketball Without Borders so much different than just a normal basketball camp is because we're actually able to experience and have an impact on these kids in more than just an on-the-court way.
Q. You mentioned some of the events that you'll be participating in while in South Africa.  Could you maybe expand on some of the specific activities and your thoughts about them?
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, so during the camp itself, we do skills work, we do scrimmages to evaluate the kids, coach them up, show them some things, but then part of the on-court session is a group called Hoops For Hope comes in, and we just talk about the importance of discipline, the importance of friendship, the importance of community and how being a part of that, we all have a social responsibility for that.
A lot of connections have been made this weekend with Nelson Mandela because it's coming up on 100 years of his life on August 4th.  So that's been a big deal, as well.
That's what we did on the court.  Tomorrow we do Habitat for Humanity, which we're going to go out and help 10 families build their homes essentially.  We're going to literally help construct those, whether some people are going to be doing brick and mortar, some people are going to be doing painting, some people are going to be socializing with those families that are going to be moving in, getting to know their experience a little bit down here, and then the game itself, the money for that will go towards the Nelson Mandela Foundation, which does work here in South Africa to help bring people together and to help fight poverty.
Those are the big things that we're doing on top of when guys have time, being able to go out and tour some of the city, try to go to the Apartheid museum.  Some of our families have been able to go on safaris and things of that nature.
Q. Your family members came; who came in your traveling party?
HARRISON BARNES: I had a few people.  I had my wife, I had my mom, I had both my mother and father-in-law, and then my sister-in-law actually lives in Johannesburg with her husband, so it's been a mini family reunion.
Q. You said your sister-in-law lives here?
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, she lives in Johannesburg.
Q. Have you had family conversations -- I would imagine you know a little bit about -- also you're very well-read, I know that.  You take social responsibility as important.  Have you had conversations about South Africa and African culture and just what to expect when you come here and what's important in this country and things like that?
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, we actually have.  Out of the group, I have the least amount of experience because this is my first time being on the continent, let alone South Africa and Johannesburg, so there's not much I can say to these guys or tell them, hey, did you know this?  Yeah, we've either lived it or we've been here before or we've done this.  I am just kind of wide-eyed trying to learn as much as I can.  Being here on the ground is so much different than reading about it and things like that.  We can actually talk to people who live here, who are around this lifestyle every single day.  I think that's what makes it so unique.  I'm just -- like I said, I'm just excited to just be here because it's so much different than anywhere else I've ever been.
Q. You mentioned that you're going to be talking about the importance of friendship, community, etc.  We also know that physical activity is an issue around the world in terms of getting kids more active and also kind of living more healthy lifestyles.  Can you talk a little bit about how you think sort of incorporating both physical and mental health will be important parts of this program?
HARRISON BARNES: Part of what I was talking about when I said the culture is different is when we did our life skills sessions with the Hoops For Hope for the kids today, it was mostly all song and dance.  We were literally dancing, moving, getting almost a workout involved with these discussions.  I think that fitness is a big priority, getting kids to move, getting kids to be active.  It's one thing to do that in a basketball setting where it's pretty cut-and-dry what you're doing, but to kind of have those conversations that some kids may honestly find boring, to kind of like add some life into it, make it fun, I think that's a huge thing.
Q. I'd be remiss if I didn't take this opportunity.  You're obviously representing the Mavericks and yourself and Dallas; I wondered if you could share a quick thought about summer additions, changes to the team?  You're obviously playing in this, but you're also preparing for the upcoming training camp which starts next month.  Can I get your general thoughts about the additions that have been made this summer to the Mavericks?
HARRISON BARNES: I'm excited.  You know, I think the addition of DeAndre [Jordan] was huge for us, giving us that rebounding presence, that anchor that we've kind of been looking for.  He can block shots.  He can rebound.  I think what he does and how he plays fits perfectly in our system, and us drafting Luka [Doncic], I think, is a another guy who once again fits our system perfectly.  Great play-maker, really knowledgeable, extremely good player for his age.  So I think that those two guys can really help us coming up this year along with all the other additions that we made.
Q. Is there anything about the experience there that has surprised you about the culture or anything like that, whether it's the food or just anything about the experience that's kind of stood out to you so far?
HARRISON BARNES: I would just say just how appreciative and passionate the people are here.  I feel like everywhere we go, somebody -- everyone just has like an energy about themselves that they give you, whether that's good or bad.  I just think it's just a great energy.  I mean, that's just the best way to say it.
Q. As part of this you've also done a lot of community work, including winning the [Al] Attles Community Impact Award and helping with underserved people, etc.  Could you talk a little bit about your personal efforts and how those might be linked to this one?
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, you know, I've been very fortunate throughout my life with a number of opportunities, a number of great people that have helped me be in the position that I am today to be an NBA basketball player and to be living out my dream.  For me, the biggest thing I want to try to do is give back to the next generation, whether that's advice, whether that's opportunities, a lot of things that I focused on in Dallas and in the States is focusing on education primarily, literacy, and underserved and underrepresented communities.  That's one thing I feel very passionate about.  But just to be able to come overseas and to be able to help people out, be able to give kids a hope and let them know that just because we're standing here as NBA players or on this platform or on this stage, we're just like you guys.  We were all in the same situations that you guys were.  We were kids with goals and dreams, and we got there through a lot of hard work, but we also got there through a lot of people helping us get to that point and some lucky breaks in there.  What we want to try to do and what I try to do is just let these kids know that, look, I'm a resource, I'm here to try to help.  I want you guys to be the most successful versions, the best versions of yourselves that you can be, and anything I can do, I'll try to help.
Q. If I'm not mistaken, Dirk [Nowitzki] and Salah Mejri represented the Mavericks in Africa last year, and this year it's you and Dennis [Smith Jr.].  I wondered if you'd had any -- you travel with Dennis and you really served as one of his mentors last season, but this is obviously a much different experience.  Have you guys been -- do you have any stories of you guys side by side?  Have you talked much during this trip?
HARRISON BARNES: He's had a little bit of flight issues, so I haven't quite seen him yet, but once he gets here, we'll definitely talk and share experiences and have shared experiences.
Q. Rick [Carlisle] didn't put you in charge of making sure he stays out of trouble?
HARRISON BARNES: No, we have team security here for that, so we're all good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT