NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2012
Harrison Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Harrison, if you can start with opening comments about being drafted by the Warriors.   
HARRISON BARNES:   Yeah, I'm very excited.   I'm just truly blessed.   I don't really have a lot of words right now other than that.   It's a very first‑class organization and I can't wait to get out there and play for them.   
   
 Q.   Talk about how you're looking forward to working under Mark Jackson and learning the tricks of the trade?   
HARRISON BARNES:   Yeah, I always had a lot of respect for him when he was an analyst, especially as a player, as well.   I got a chance to talk with him at Chicago a little bit, just talking basketball.   And it was great to see how much of a player's coach he is.   So I'm definitely looking forward to being coached underneath him and having that relationship.   
   
 Q.   Could you just talk about being able now to play with Andrew Bogut and what you expect to bring to his game?   
HARRISON BARNES:   Hopefully add three‑point shooting and a little diversity.   I'm bigger than Klay but Klay and Stephen (Curry) can both shoot the ball, so I just want to do whatever the team needs me to do.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of the Bay Area?   Have you been there?   Are you familiar with the region?   
HARRISON BARNES:   I haven't.   Actually I have a few friends that have been in that area and they told me it's beautiful.   So I definitely look forward to going out there tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You're all great athletes.   Do players themselves make a big deal of who is going second, third, or fourth?   Is that such a big deal or do we make more of a big deal than we should out of this stuff?  
HARRISON BARNES:   Everyone is different.   Me personally, I'm just truly blessed to be in this position.   Looking back over my high school years and middle school years and stuff like that, there was a chance I wasn't going to be this player.   So I'm just happy to be here and I'm just going to try to‑‑ whatever my ceiling is, I'm definitely going to try to reach it.   
   
 Q.   When you saw all of the names ahead of you, is that motivation for you going forward?   Is that something you're going to use as maybe a chip?   
HARRISON BARNES:   That will always be motivation.   Just the fact that, you know, someone says they are better than you and they are drafted higher than you, so that's always going to be motivation.   So I'm extremely happy that the Warriors were able to pick me and I can't wait to get out there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT