NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 18, 2016
Harrison Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's it like to be a day away from Game 7 of the NBA Finals?
HARRISON BARNES: It's exciting.  You know, to be able to be playing at home with the NBA title on the line, it's a good feeling.
Q. It feels like, obviously, it's Game 7 so it means a lot.  But at least from our end it feels like there is a lot more at stake, seems like legacies and stuff like that.  Does any of that stuff creep in?  Do you hear about it?  Does any of that stuff creep into your mind?
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, you hear that stuff.  That's what you play for.  We've been trying all year to play for a back-to-back championship, and they've been playing to get to a championship.  There's a lot of things that go into it, but the biggest thing for us is just focus on this one game.  We don't want to focus on being ahead 3-1, the fact that we lost the last two.  Just focus on the next 48 minutes, and the NBA Championship will be crowned at the end.
Q. How do you stay confident in your shooting when going through a tough stretch like this?
HARRISON BARNES: Just come in and put in some work and don't really think about it too much.  Shot felt good today.  Came in last night and did some work as well.  I feel good coming into the game.
Q. How much do you feel like momentum carries from one game to another?  Because it seems to be one way or the other.  Either it does carry over or it doesn't?
HARRISON BARNES: I've been on both sides.  I've had good momentum that hasn't carried over and bad momentum that hasn't either.  I think every game you have to bring it.  I think this next game, both teams have put themselves in good position, and you have to make your momentum.
Q. When you're going into Game 5, did you ever expect you'd be back here for 7?
HARRISON BARNES: I mean, I didn't imagine it, but here we are.  At the end of the day we took care of business early on so we had room at the back end, and we're in a Game 7 now.  So one way or another, the season's going to end the next game.
Q. You guys played three must-win games in the last round.  How did that prepare you for what you're facing tomorrow?
HARRISON BARNES: You just know what it feels like to have your back and going into this game, it's nothing we haven't seen before.  We've been in elimination games three times in a row.  And in this series, it's one of those instances where we need to win games.  So I think we feel confident coming into this game, that we have dealt with this kind of pressure before.
Q. Is there anything specific you guys have to do differently other than just make shots that you haven't done over the past couple games?
HARRISON BARNES: Oh, yeah.  I mean, even if we take shot making out of it, on the defensive side of it, just the open shots we're allowing, the easy things, the free throw, the turnovers, those are things that we can control.  They come out here and they're hitting tough contested shots and working for all the baskets, you tip your hat to them.  But it's the easy ones, that's when you kind of look at yourself and say what can you do better.
Q. How big of a factor do you expect the crowd to be tomorrow?
HARRISON BARNES: Oh, it will be crazy in here tomorrow.  So it will definitely help, but we can't just rely on them.  We can't say oh, we're going to play at home.  And it's going to be loud.  We have to go out there and give them something to cheer for.
Q. How do you get your offensive game back?
HARRISON BARNES: Just step up, shoot, don't think about it.  I can't say my shot selection has been the issue the last couple of games. Obviously, I missed a few wide-open shots.  So just going to step into them and continue to take them.
Q. Was there too much thinking the last couple games, or is it just the way it is?
HARRISON BARNES: No, it's really the way it is.  They were wide-open shots.  You've got to slow a few things down, watch some tape.  A few technical thing.  But other than that, just let it ride.
Q. LeBron had back-to-back 41-point games.  What do you expect from him tomorrow?
HARRISON BARNES: You know, he'll continue to be aggressive.  He's a great player, so he's going to score.  We need to take away the easy ones, a lot of them in transition, easy dunks, defensive breakdowns, not let him just get to the rim easy.
Q. What are some of the things you took away from the previous round against OKC in Game 7?
HARRISON BARNES: Just enjoy the moment.  I think this is what you work for all season, to play for an NBA Championship, and here we are.  Game 7.  There are no more games after this.  We need to come in sharp, focused, and just play like there is no tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT