NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 15, 2016
Harrison Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What kind of impact does Andrew Bogut's absence have?  
HARRISON BARNES: His ability to anchor our defense and protect the rim.  On offense, he plays out of the post and is a great passer.  So it's not necessarily one person that's going to replace him.  We're going to need a combination of Festus, Andy [Varejao] and Mo [Speights] to kind of fill that void.   
 Q.  Do you think you can play the so-called small lineup even more? Or is there a max on that?  Can you go 35, 40 minutes without a traditional center?  
HARRISON BARNES: We could.  We definitely could.  But I think the strength of our team is obviously our depth.  So we're going to want to get those guys in there, those bigs, and see how they do.   
 Q.  This series felt normal through Game 4 -- competitive, it's 3-1.  Then Draymond gets suspended, and then Bogut gets hurt.  Now it feels a little unsettled from the outside.  Do you feel any of that or do you just move on and say, "We're going to Game 6"?  
HARRISON BARNES: We just feel like we're going to Game 6.  We look at last game -- we weren't playing well and things weren't going our way, but we're tied at halftime and we still had opportunities to cut it down in the fourth.  So we look at that and we look at all the mistakes that we made.  Giving up 27 points in transition.  Giving up the turnovers.  We won the rebound battle, but they shot 54 percent.  So little things like that we feel we can correct.   
 Q.  When you hear Draymond taking ownership and saying he's a bad teammate, how do you guys receive that?  Does it help when he takes responsibility and puts it on himself?  
HARRISON BARNES: I think it's an exaggeration to say he's a bad teammate.   
 Q.  He does that though, right?  "The loss is on me"?  
HARRISON BARNES: He said that, but we're not going with that.  Things happen.  We have to move on from it.  We can't dwell on what happened in Game 4, what happened in Game 5.  The only focus now is everyone preparing for Game 6.   
 Q.  Is it at all kind of fitting that you guys are back here with a chance to clinch instead of at home, where it would have been the perfect ending?  Now you have to grind it out?  Does that kind of fit how these Playoffs have been going?  
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, for sure.  There have been a lot of times this season where "We should have done this" or "We should have done that" [or] "We could have closed here," and we haven't.  Now is a great opportunity to focus everything on Game 6, forget everything that happened in the past and just bring it.   
 Q.  When you watch the video, what did you learn about your game?  Obviously, you shot worse than usual in Game 5.  Did you learn anything from reflection or watching video that you can apply for tomorrow night?  
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, there were a couple plays where I could have made the extra pass.   But a lot of those shots were wide-open shots.   
 Q.  So the shot selection was pretty good?  That wasn't the issue?  
HARRISON BARNES: No, there were a plethora of wide-open shots. Like I said, there were a few that could have been an extra pass, but for the most part it wasn't a bunch of contested, tough, hard jumpers.   
 Q.  Do you just put that aside or does it fuel you?  
HARRISON BARNES: It's not going to change my mentality one bit.  I'm going to go out there and be aggressive and let it fly.  I'm going to play the same way I've been playing the rest of the series.  I'm not going to dwell on a bad shooting night.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT