NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 12, 2016
Harrison Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was your initial reaction halfway through practice when you found out?  
HARRISON BARNES: Oh, you know, we were disappointed, but it's the league's decision, and we've got to go out this next game and come ready to play.   
 Q.  How does your role, if at all, change without Draymond?  I mean, you play four already, but going to play more four and just roll on with it like that?  
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, I'll probably play a lot more four, probably less three.  But the focus will be quick rebounding, especially because we might be playing small lineup, so just get on the boards.   
 Q.  We've seen more of Andrew in this Final series than we did last year.  Some big blocks and really having influence on the defensive end.  Have you been happy with his performance?  
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, we love the way Boges has been playing.  Throughout the entire season it's like he's been our defensive anchor, our guy that's been able to erase all of our defensive mistakes on the perimeter.  So in the Playoffs he's been huge, and we've been able to keep him on the floor, even though we've been playing a lot of small lineups.   
 Q.  If you focus more on rebounding, will you have to sacrifice any other parts of your game, getting out on breaks and things like that without Draymond?  
HARRISON BARNES: You don't look at it like that.  You look to find other opportunities. You may be on the glass more, or be in the trail position more for some open threes.  You get a chance to attack in a different way as opposed to being on that outlet and being one of those guys that Steph likes to pitch it too.   
 Q.  You and Klay met at a basketball camp back in 2010.  What was the impression for Klay at the time?  Talk about some stories of then?  
HARRISON BARNES: Klay was his usual self.  He's just very quiet, very chill guy.  Could still shoot it the same way he shoots it now.  So that's one thing I was impressed with him at a young age at.  It's just crazy that how we met at that camp and all these years later we're on the same team.   
 Q.  Did you find the NBA discipline decisions inconsistent?  
HARRISON BARNES: I've got no comment on that.   
 Q.  We've got to try.  You hear Draymond, the term "emotional leader" a lot is assigned to him.  Who do you think will step up in that role for Game 5 and really get you guys up?  
HARRISON BARNES: Well, I don't think it's necessarily trying to find one person to go in and try to replace what he does, whether it's his presence on the court or what he brings from an emotional standpoint.  But I think we have to come in focused and ready to go.  The task is still at hand.  It's going to be the same Cavs team that we've seen in the last four games, and we have to be ready to play.   
 Q.  Were you shocked when you found out?  I heard you guys found out during practice.  
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, we were a little disappointed.  But at the end of the day we have to still go out there and play.   
 Q.  Who informed you?  
HARRISON BARNES: Coach Kerr.   
 Q.  Coach Kerr.  Did he have any words to say after that?  
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, he said some stuff, but it was mostly just team stuff.   
 Q.  Do you feel a little bit like underdogs in this next game considering you're missing an All-Star?  
HARRISON BARNES: Whether we're the favorites or the underdogs, it doesn't really matter.  You've got to go out there and play how we play.  And I feel like we have enough depth on this team that somebody will step up.   
 Q.  This team seems to play better when you're able to be aggressive offensively at the beginning of the game.  Tomorrow night you might have a tougher defensive assignment to start out the game.  Are you a little worried about that balance where you might have to dig in a little more defensively and maybe not get off like you did early in Game 1?  
HARRISON BARNES: Not at all.  Just trying to go out there and just take advantage of the opportunities that you have.  The defense is going to be huge for us, especially rebounding.  We're all going to need all five guys to get in there and board.  But offensively, just play loose.  That's what we've been doing all season.  But all series we've been having a loose flow on offense, and we'll just try to do the same thing.   
 Q.  What kind of energy are you supposed to have to start the game?  
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, I think this next game we're going to start out with a lot of energy.  I think that's when we play better, so that's what we're going to try to focus on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT