NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 9, 2016
Harrison Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When you guys lose it doesn't seem to be by 7 or 8 points.  It seems to snowball a little bit.  Anything you can point to why it kind of gets out of control when you do lose?  
HARRISON BARNES: Oh, I mean usually it's two factors when we lose:  It's energy and turnovers.  We've got to give them credit.  They came out and started off the game the right way.  We lost the rebound battle, we lost the turnover battle, and when you lose both those it's kind of hard to make up that difference.   
 Q.  Who's going to lead you guys out of this one-game slump?  Is it any one guy?  
HARRISON BARNES: I don't know if it's possible to have a one-game slump.  But it's a collective unit.  It's not necessarily one person that can say, look, we need to turn this thing around.  It's everybody who comes into the game.  We all have to be ready to play and go out there and have that focus and take care of the basketball.   
 Q.  Coach has been talking about how these Playoffs are officiated differently, so less stuff gets called and it's more physical.  Can you tell us about that?  What is the level of rough stuff?  
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, I mean, it changes game to game, series to series.  The last series was extremely physical.  You know, there was a lot of stuff that was able to be done, and it was just a different kind of ballgame.  Though this series, it was like last night, there was kind of more of a tightly officiated game.  A lot more touch fouls and a lot less physical play and all that type of stuff.  Not that that's a criticism against the refs.  But you have to get a feel of the game and how the game's going to be officiated.   
 Q.  Do you have to ratchet up your own physicality, dirty play?  You've got to match fire with fire.  Do you have to pick that up, too?  
HARRISON BARNES: I think we have to pick up our energy.   
 Q.  You personally.  
HARRISON BARNES: Oh, me personally? I'm ready to play.  I think we have to come ready to play. I don't necessarily think we need to play dirty.  I think that's a stretch.  But we definitely need to match their physicality.   
 Q.  What was said at the end of the first quarter that enabled the bench specifically to come back and make a run in the second quarter and get you back in the game?  
HARRISON BARNES: Well, we knew they were coming out with the punch.  That just seems to be the tendency of how we're being played on the road.  But just continue to battle back, continue to work and keep things together.  I thought we did a good job.  We cut it to single digits at one point.  In the second half, I think in that third quarter, I think we let things slip away, and that's kind of when the game got out of reach.   
 Q.  Scoring has been down for Steph and Klay in this series in particular.  Is it anything they're doing defensively or is it a matter of them hitting shots they don't normally do?  
HARRISON BARNES: Give them some credit.  They're obviously doing a good job of defending both of them.  But we also have to make it easier on ourselves.  We're not really putting them in positions to get easy shots where they're having to work.  Whether it's an isolation situation or them using their abilities to try to get a shot and we're not doing a good job helping them out with that.   
 Q.  Did you make a conscious effort to hit the boards more in Game 3 or just it happened?  
HARRISON BARNES: No, I mean, that was something that we we tried to put more emphasis on.  Especially playing small, we had to get on those boards and do a better job.  Although they still beat us, coming into this next game we still need to keep up with that focus.   
 Q.  Last year for the first time the players got to vote on the League MVP.  It was a separate vote.  James Harden won that, did you vote on that?  Were you a member?  
HARRISON BARNES: Oh, yeah.   
 Q.  Now this year assuming you get another one, who will you vote for for MVP?  
HARRISON BARNES: I'd probably vote for Stephen Curry.  Unanimous MVP, 73-win team, that's pretty good.   
 Q.  Can you vote for your own team?  
HARRISON BARNES: Yes.  Steph can't vote for himself.   
 Q.  Throughout these Playoffs there's been a lot of lopsided games.  Teams win by 30, lose by 30.  Do you have a theory on why that's happening so much this year?  
HARRISON BARNES: Honestly, I have no idea.  I think back to last year's run, and it was every game was close.  I think the first two games were in overtime and it just seemed like everything was coming down to the wire.  This year it's been the complete opposite.  I really don't know why that is.   
 Q.  At one point LeBron's shots were not falling, and he made an adjustment I think this the third quarter.  What kind of changes do you see from LeBron when he was able to make that change?  
HARRISON BARNES: Oh, you know, he started hitting jumpshots.  I think that's what kind of opened up the game for him.  The first couple games he wasn't really making those shots.  Last night he got hot, and I think that's what kind of allowed them to pull away a little bit.   
 Q.  Are you surprised with just how two of the hottest three-point shooting teams in the NBA coming into this series, and you guys are both struggling from behind the arc?  
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, it's either great defense on both sides or poor shooting on both sides.  I'm going to go with great defense.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT