NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 7, 2016
Harrison Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  When they take Tristan out, do you feel the extra spacing for them?  It gets a little harder for you to help at the rim?  There is more ground to cover when they have the ball, like with Love at the five or Channing at the five?  
HARRISON BARNES: Yeah, you have to pay more attention to that, just because we've seen in previous series that Channing needs a little bit of space to get going, Kevin needs a little space.  They run more high pick-and-rolls and spread the court out.  That's definitely a focus of ours when they go small.   
 Q.  Why doesn't iso ball work against you guys?  Why do you defend it so well?  
HARRISON BARNES: I wouldn't say that iso ball doesn't work against us, but we've done a great job of just team defense.  I think in the last series going against Westbrook and Durant, really having to load up and guard those guys, kind of prepared us for this series as well.   
 Q.  Do you play the percentages in that situation?  Is that the philosophy?  
HARRISON BARNES: You don't want them to get in a rhythm.  Whatever the isolation is, you want to try to hopefully get them out of their comfort zone.  If they're going to make a shot, you want to make sure it's a contested shot.   
 Q.  When you guys were down 3-1 to OKC, everyone was kind of writing you off saying that's the end of that.  Now these guys are down 2-0, and it's starting to get that feel, too.  Coach Lue said he had brought that up to them, and Coach Kerr said he brought it up to you guys: "We did this so they're going to have the motivation that we had when we were down."  What were those motivations and how do you think they'll apply to Cleveland?  
HARRISON BARNES: It's never over until it's over.  We learned that from last series, and just looking at any playoff experience, that is the case.  But winning on the road is tough.  It's difficult.  I think we've seen that throughout our playoff runs with some Game 3s, and last series, Game 3 and 4.  We just need to continue to do a better job of playing on the road, because it's different.  It's easy to play at home.  You have your home crowd.  You feel comfortable, you're in your own element.  But when you go on the road, it's always difficult to win in the Playoffs.  We don't look at it that it's 2-0 in the series.  We have two games that are going to be a dogfight here, and we'll go on from there.   
 Q.  Steph announced yesterday that he's bowing out of the Olympics.  Where do you stand on your desire to play for Team USA?  
HARRISON BARNES: To play for Team USA would be a great honor.  But we're at the NBA Finals right now.  The attention is more so here than anything.   
 Q.  In the regular season, knowing you were able to get a win on this court, how important is that to your confidence for you?  
HARRISON BARNES: We feel confident in how we've played throughout the postseason.  But this is a different team.  They're going to come out desperate, hungry.  They're going to be on their home court and their crowd's going to be into it.  So we have to come with the mindset from the tip that it's going to be a battle.   
 Q.  You just mentioned Game 3 has been kind of the waffling spot for you guys.  Do you have any idea in particular why you've had some challenges in Game 3s as a group?  
HARRISON BARNES: The storyline tends to be the same:  The other team comes out hungrier than we do.  We can't afford to get down early.  We can't afford to spot a team 10, 15 points on the road in the Playoffs and think we're going to have miraculous comebacks.  It doesn't always work that way.  We have to do a better job starting off the game on the right foot.  Then after that, everyone will adjust and be fine.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT