NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 4, 2016
Harrison Barnes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The Eastern Conference is not as good as the Western Conference.  You played three rounds against the West and now you're playing the Cavs.  Do you see any difference in the toughness level?  
HARRISON BARNES: This is the NBA Finals, so no matter if you come from the East or West, it's a long road to get here.  You're here for a reason.  You're not here by accident.  I don't really get into too much into who is better, the East or the West.  This is the best -- these are the last two teams standing.   
 Q.  In the first game you were very aggressive offensively.  So is there any change or adjustment from you, or will you just go for it?  
HARRISON BARNES: We're just trying to take advantage of what's open.  There was a lot of attention focused on Steph and Klay.  So we're trying to be active, cutting and moving and trying to find open areas and just be aggressive.   
 Q.  You're always looking to attack close to the rim.  So any adjustment or just outside, inside, you want to keep the balance of the inside and outside?  
HARRISON BARNES: I'm just going to try to go with the flow of the game.  I'm not trying to come in with a predetermined "I'm going to shoot more threes" or "I'm going to try to get to the rim."  It's just be aggressive and take what the defense gives you.   
 Q.  What's different from last year's Finals?  
HARRISON BARNES: Much more relaxed.  Last year was like everything you did, it was like, Oh, my gosh, it's The Finals.  You get the chills walking in here.  It's crazy, like a little kid.  Now we're a little more experienced, we can settle in a little bit more and go out and focus on the game and play, as opposed to being caught up in the moment of we're actually here.   
 Q.  You mentioned last year was more like a Cinderella for you guys.  This year what kind of fairy tale do you want to tell people?  
HARRISON BARNES: This is the last chapter of the story.  We're trying to finish it out.  The expectations coming in this year were much different.  It wasn't, Oh, this is the very first time we're getting to The Finals with no experience.  It's, We're the team that won 73 games.  A lot of people predicted us to be here.  We're just trying to follow the beat of our own drum.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT