NL DIVISION SERIES: MARLINS v GIANTS
September 30, 2003
Sidney Ponson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  The manager has told us that either you or Kirk Rueter will pitch Game 2, the other one Game 3.  How does that throw things into the mix for you? 

SIDNEY PONSON:  For me it's not going to be in the mix.  I'm preparing myself to pitch tomorrow.  For any reason they change it and make me pitch on Friday, I have to be ready for Friday.  So right now I'm preparing myself to pitch tomorrow, so I'm looking forward for tomorrow. 

Q.  What is your normal routine the day before you pitch? 

SIDNEY PONSON:  I don't have any.  I'm just going to look at Jason, how he approach these guys.  I'm pitch against these guys already, so I already know them pretty good.  I pitch against them in spring training.  I'm just going to see how Schmidt is going to attack them and put it in my game plan, go watch them a little bit on TV for a couple innings, see what my game plan is.  Basically come in early tomorrow, talk to Benito or Torre, whoever catching tomorrow, and see what my game plan is and go from there. 

Q.  How difficult would it be for you to stop all your preparations for tomorrow and pitch on Friday? 

SIDNEY PONSON:  I just answer him.  I say I'm prepared for tomorrow.  If it's not, I have to prepare for Friday.  I mean, I'm going game plan for tomorrow.  Whatever happens today after the game, he say, "You're pitching on Friday," it's the same game plan because I pretty much have the same hitters in Florida I'm going to get over here.  I'm going to write a couple things down.  I'm going to have tapes.  I'm going to be game ready for tomorrow.  Whatever happen happens. 

Q.  Do you pitch to them differently at Pac Bell Park as opposed to Pro Player Stadium? 

SIDNEY PONSON:  Not really.  I'm going to try to keep the ball down into the zone, change speeds, you know, try to read the hitters.  You know, I think Benito is going to catch these games.  He knows these guys.  And I know -- it's all depends how I feel, too, coming out of the bullpen.  I might be feeling good, I might be feeling bad, I might be feeling so-and-so.  I'm not going to change.  I'm going to pitch my game and make adjustment inning by inning.

Q.  Does the idea of splitting the right-handed starters, putting Rueter in the middle, do you think that's a good way to go? 

SIDNEY PONSON:  I think so.  You know, I think me and Schmidty are similar pitchers.  So, you know, like I said, it's a short season.  We need to get in, get on top right away, you know, go to Florida at least winning by one, 1-1 or 2-0.  If we go 2-0, I pitch Game 3, we have to go in there and try to finish on Friday. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT