MOUNTAIN WEST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 10, 2014
Sara Halasz
Yvonne Sanchez
Deeva Vaughn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We'll begin with New Mexico.   Coach, if we could start with some general comments on today's game. 
COACH SANCHEZ:   You know, big game for the fans.   Came down to the wire like our last two games did.   Again, just like the last couple games:   we just didn't finish it out. 
We had some really good performances by these two on my left, Sara and Deeva Vaughn.   We're going to miss them tremendously. 
It's just a tough game. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for the student‑athletes. 

Q.   Sara, the first half, both sides shooting the ball well offensively.   You had the lead.   Do you think the four‑point lead they were able to convert changed things at all?   What do you feel the turning point was in the second half for you guys? 
SARA HALASZ:   We didn't come out the first four minutes ready to play.   That's been our Achilles' heel every game we've come into.   I don't think the four‑point play had anything to do with it.   We just need to come out and execute and be ready to play. 

Q.   Deeva, you had the chance to tie late.   Talk about that last play and the look you were able to get. 
DEEVA VAUGHN:   The last play of the game? 

Q.   Yes. 
DEEVA VAUGHN:   We were going to specifically go for a three‑point shot.   Communication didn't flow like it should have.   That's pretty much what happened. 

Q.   Jennifer Schlott is a very focal point.   How do you feel you were able to deal with her defensively? 
DEEVA VAUGHN:   I think that helped with us as post players coming up and just giving false pressure, if you will, so she wouldn't drive all the way into the gut of the court, if you will. 
I think we did a fairly decent job in the second half with that. 

Q.   With the close games this season, that's been a recurring theme.   To end the season with a close loss, how tough has it been? 
DEEVA VAUGHN:   For us as seniors, it's very tough.   It was a pattern obviously.   But this is a whole different season.   We started out 0‑0.   I felt like we were trying our best to win.   Close games, I mean, I don't even know how to answer that question. 
SARA HALASZ:   That's part of basketball.   That's what you come out on the court for, to play close games, have competition, have fun with it. 
In the long run, we just needed to come out and finish 'em. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll continue with questions for Coach Sanchez. 

Q.   Can you talk about the difficulties of guarding Schlott and the difficulties she creates for you guys. 
COACH SANCHEZ:   She's very talented.   She's smart.   She'll go left and mostly score.   She'll go right a few dribbles, three or four.   She likes to go back left. 
We know what she likes to do.   She's still hard to guard.   She's got an array of moves.   She's very smart.   She does a good job. 

Q.   In the second half it seemed Utah State was focused on keeping you more on the perimeter.   The first half you were successful getting the ball down low.   Anything they were doing specifically that was keeping you from getting the points in the paint?
COACH SANCHEZ:   They did a nice job of denying that high post.   We just didn't do a great job of passing the ball.   We turned it over.   That killed us the first four minutes of the second half.   We turn it over from the high post, we turn it over from the short corner.   We made just really errant passes when we were converting those in the first half, we weren't as aggressive.   Then we settled for jump shots.   Short corner was there, the dive was there, the high post was there. 
It was still open.   We just did a really poor job of finding it in the second half, getting the ball to those people.   You shoot 22% in the second half after shooting 58% in the first half, that's a lot, because we settled for jump shots instead of going inside. 
We went to the line 17 times in the first half, I think went seven in the second half.   That's attributed to us settling for shots instead of going inside.   We went away from what we wanted to do.   We had four people in double figures, which should have been enough. 
Credit Utah State, they did a terrific job, they really did. 

Q.   Everybody knows about Schlott, how good she is scoring‑wise.   Bairstow seemed to step up and one of the biggest games of her season. 
COACH SANCHEZ:   She's a good player.   For whatever reason, why she didn't have a good game the last two times I'm not real sure because she's a really good player. 
So she played the way I feel she can play.   I mean, she hit some threes, she hit some good shots, she's smart.   We sent her to the line a few times.   But she hit a couple of really big shots when they needed to. 
Again, I mean, I don't know for Utah State, I just think she's a terrific player.   I wasn't real surprised.   Williams, we held down a little bit.   But I think Bairstow is a fantastic player.   I'm not surprised with what she did.   She's just good. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the last play. 
COACH SANCHEZ:   Sure.   We were running two up.   We ran it a little bit differently than we usually do to try to disguise it.   Brea went a little bit too soon and didn't let the screen get set. 
By the time she cut out, it was just a miss‑timed play.   Still had ten seconds left.   We were trying to get a ball screen in there.   It just didn't work out.   We just didn't take a very good shot there at the end. 
I told them, If we don't get the three right away, go in and get a quick two.   I think they might have panicked a little bit and jacked up the three.   With 10 seconds left, you can get a quick two.   You still have time for a foul, maybe get a trap, a turnover.   We just didn't get it done. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you very much, coach. 
COACH SANCHEZ:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT