BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 11, 2017
AJ Dillon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NC State - 17, Boston College - 14
Q. How much did things change once Anthony went out, and how much did you have to kind of carry things?
AJ DILLON: I mean, both Anthony and Darius, we, as a team, have full confidence.  The coaches have a game plan, so we knew we were going to stay to it.  We all, obviously, we went over and saw Anthony on the sideline.  We were just hoping that he has a speedy recovery from whatever it is.  But as far as Darius going in, there was no doubt in anybody's mind that anything in our game plan had changed.  They're both great guys, great leaders, and I was happy for him.
Q. (Inaudible)?
AJ DILLON: I mean, I mentioned a couple weeks ago after Louisville, after I had 39 carries, I focused a lot more on my stamina.  It's still not where it needs to be for my personal, for what I really want.  But I feel like the workload, as it is, I was just so focused on getting a win, that I didn't really feel -- it was fine.  I felt good.
Q. Can you just tell us what you saw in the touchdown run?
AJ DILLON: The line blocked really well.  I forget which tight end.  I think he blocked a corner, a corner, D-end.  But one of them pushed him out, and I saw the safety or corner over here chasing me.  So I just saw the hole, hit it, and ran as fast as I could into the end zone.
Q. Addazio was just in here and he was talking about how it felt at times as if you had to play games and win games with one hand tied behind your back because of the injuries.  Is that the sense in the locker room that you guys have kind of done this?  You've overcome some obstacles, too?
AJ DILLON: Yeah, definitely we've overcome a lot of obstacles.  I mean, it's football and you have to have the mindset that anything can happen.  That's one of those times where when coaches preach, you need to be ready when your number is called.
That's something I feel like we really execute well.  I feel like when people are called upon, they go in to be put in a situation.  We have a very good tendency to be able to handle the situation.  So, I mean, obviously injuries are not -- you don't want to have injuries, but they happen, and that's part of football.  You just got to keep moving forward as a program.
Q. Also, (Inaudible)?
AJ DILLON: Yeah, I don't know exactly what happened.  I saw him on the sideline, and I saw him back in the locker room for a second.  I just told him to keep his head up.  The entire team has his back.  That's one of my closest friends here.  So, obviously, I'll talk to him more tonight probably.  But I just told him that I love him and I'm there for him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT