UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 10, 2008
Will Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Did it lighten the mood a little bit yesterday having gotten a win behind you?
 WILL JOHNSON: Yeah, I think so. I mean, everybody was a lot happier around the building and stuff. It wasn't loose. I mean, we moved on pretty fast because we want to get ready for the next game. But I mean, moods are a little bit more -- we saw what we could do and everybody was clicking on Saturday, so it was a good feeling.

 Q. What did you feel went differently up front for the group on Saturday? 
 WILL JOHNSON: I think we had a good package in, and I think everybody just realized that we've just got to keep playing. The offense having success helps the defense out a lot, giving them more breaks. We had like six three-and-outs in the first half, and we just got on a roll. Everybody was on the same page. I think we had a good week in practice, and I think it just carried over to the game. 

 Q. Are you thinking about senior day? 
 WILL JOHNSON: Am I thinking about it? Yeah, it's my last home game, so it's kind of a weird feeling, never be here again. Yeah, I'm excited, and I just want to get a W on Saturday. That would be a good way to go out.

 Q. What's your best memory from the big house? 
 WILL JOHNSON: I think there's tons of them. This year Wisconsin was great. I mean, last year we had a bunch. Let me think here. Penn State, even though I didn't play much in that game, but that was great, in 2005. Yeah, we've had a lot of ups and downs, but overall it's been a great experience. 

 Q. How have the seniors adjusted to the new coaching staff? 
 WILL JOHNSON: I mean, it's been difficult. We've had a difficult process. I mean, the season hasn't went the way any senior wants it to go, having that long a losing streak. But I think you just have to take what it gives you and just keep rolling. There's bigger problems in life than losing football games. It's just a game. 

 Q. How about for you personally?
 WILL JOHNSON: I think it's went well. The whole D-line has done a great job, I think, and everybody, Terrence, Tim Jamison, Brandon Graham, Mike Martin stepped up a lot. I think we have a good bunch of guys up there and I love playing with them and next to them. 

 Q. Coach said you guys as seniors are helping to lay the foundation for the future. Do you feel like that? Do you feel like you're helping to build what's going to come next? 
 WILL JOHNSON: It's kind of hard to see. I guess we're laying the foundation. I mean, this is the first season. They went through the same thing at West Virginia. They had like a 3-and-8 season, and that set off winning seasons for the next I don't know how many years. 
 Yeah, so I mean -- yeah, I guess so, yeah. We'll see next year and years to come. 

 Q. Do you think that good things will happen eventually for this program?
 WILL JOHNSON: Yeah, they've got a good coaching staff, and they've got a lot of talent this team. It's young, and everything wasn't clicking at the same time and it's taken a while. I think Minnesota built everybody's confidence up, and everybody knew -- if everybody runs what they're supposed to do, it'll click if we can move the ball. 

 Q. Did Coach Rod talk to you guys about what it was like the first year at West Virginia, that it can turn around?
 WILL JOHNSON: He doesn't really talk too much about West Virginia, but other coaches mention it and stuff. They laid the foundation there, and it was a tough season, but those seniors are what built the next how many years. 

 Q. Are you a sentimental guy? Do you think you'll be emotional on Saturday knowing it's your last home game?
 WILL JOHNSON: We'll see on Saturday. I don't know. I mean, I want to have a good time, but I'm not going to get too emotional. I just want to play hard and get a W. 
 Yeah, I mean, I'm sure I'll get -- it's the last game here, so it's kind of a weird feeling for the seniors.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT