UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 12, 2007
Will Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q.  Can you talk about the big plays they've been able to make, and how you're going to try to make sure that doesn't happen again this year? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Yeah, they made some big plays in the past that has no bearing on this year.  I'm sure they're going to hit some big plays.  We have to have a good game plan together, and everybody has to execute, do their job, and keep the ball out of the end zone. 

 Q.  Can you describe yourself what this week is like not only in football practice but around campus? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Students here are excited.  I've talked to a couple of them they're pumped for the game in my classes.  I talked to them in my class today. 
 It's a good atmosphere this week, and I think we're going to be ready to go. 

 Q.  What are they saying the guys in your class? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Oh, they're just excited for the game.  We have a great opportunity to win Big Ten outright.  And I wouldn't want it any other way, and a lot of the mm feel the same way. 

 Q.  Is it surprising to be in this position? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  No, I think the first two losses, we rebounded really well, and the pass loss was a wake-up call that we need to step it up and get ready for Ohio State. 

 Q.  Do you anticipate the seniors doing anything special this week or having talks in regards to what's happening? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  I'm sure we'll have some meetings, but I expect every senior to get his game plan in, study a lot, and get ready to play an emotional game, and get ready to play. 

 Q.  What were they saying after the first two games compared to what they're saying now? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  I don't really hear negative stuff to my face, but I'm sure there was some.  But they were supportive, and they told me I had to get it going and we did that. 

 Q.  What's Coach Carr talk about the turning around process from a tough start to where you are now? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Just keeping an eye on us.  Telling us we have a great opportunity ahead of us with the Big Ten championship.  And we capitalized on it, and still got a chance to win it. 

 Q.  What's the defensive ine pose against you and Ohio State? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  They're a big line, they have a lot of returning starters.  So we have to keep leverage on the ball. 
 They run a power gap scheme offense, and if one person's out of position, they might have a big play on us, and we can't have that. 

 Q.  After looking at Wisconsin is the run defense maybe not what you want? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Yeah, some people were trying to do other people's jobs.  Tackling was an issue, we're going to work on that this week a lot.  And just leverage on the ball - some people were out of position.  We realized that and we'll be bale to fix it. 

 Q.  Coach Carr's taken a lot of shots this year.  How bad do you want to beat Ohio State and get these championship for him? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Yeah, definitely.  Definitely.  We want to win it for him.  He's taken a lot of criticism, but that's his job as a coach.  But we represent him as a coach.  So yeah, we definitely want to win it for him. 

 Q.  How old does it get hearing, "you have to beat them"? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  It does get old, but those games are in the past, we're concentrating on this week.  I'm not going to concentrate on last year or whatever.  I'm not going to -- it has no bearing on this game. 

 Q.  You guys saw Wells last year.  Can you talk a little about him as a running back?  What makes him good?  How do you try to stop him? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  He's a big, physical back.  He's running behind a big line.  He's got great feet, great vision.  He knows when to cut back.  We've got to have people in position where they can make plays and get them down on the ground. 

 Q.  You obviously want to win this game for yourself and for Michigan? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  I want to win it.  I'm playing for everybody on the team.  I'm playing for everybody.  Chad and Mike have been through a lot here.  And this past year with the injuries, they're fighting back and getting in games.  And we're going to try to win this one for them and everybody on the team. 

 Q.  Has Coach Carr's demeanor changed this week? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  I expect this week we'll be pretty fired up, and we'll be pretty intense.  I expect, yeah, that's what I expect out of it.  I expect there will be a lot more film study, yep. 

 Q.  What was yesterday like?  Was it different than during the Sundays during the 18-win streak? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  I think we got in, we watched the film, and we realized where the mistakes were made.  And we went into a little bit of a game plan of Ohio State.  I mean, we're all fired up and ready to go for this game. 

 Q.  Do you remember the last game against Ohio State? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Yeah, I was in the stands.  It was an exciting game.  Both sides of the ball played excellent, and I expect them to do that this year, too. 

 Q.  Can you talk about how you got to where you are now? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  I know football.  Everybody's got to put their effort in.  It's not given to you every year.  Ohio State's a great program so are all the other Big Ten teams.  On any given year, you can step up and win it.  And we're in a position to win it this year.  So we're looking forward to it. 

 Q.  On the field is the intensity different in this game than in other conference games?  Are the hits harder?  Is it more difficult for you guys as players when playing a rivalry to keep your composure? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Yeah, this game's not going to come down to X's and O's.  It's going to be an emotional game and come out with a physical play.  Whatever team hits harder, tackles better, blocks better and keeps them out of the end zone is going to win the game, so, yeah. 

 Q.  The things that the coaching staff have done over the years and getting more emotion on it, and some guys maybe haven't grasped the rivalry.  Is there anything you can think of? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Not off the top of my head? 

 Q.  Take us back to last year, Bo's speech to the team and his passing the Friday before the game, and the team what that whole scene was like with Coach Carr? 
 WILL JOHNSON:  Bo gave a great speech before he left.  It was real sad when he passed away.  But we knew that he would want us to go out and fight to try to win that game.  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT