ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 8, 2011
Galina Voskoboeva
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. VOSKOBOEVA/M. Bartoli
  6-3, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. Obviously the first upset of the tournament and maybe the biggest win of your career. Can you talk about what was going right for you today?  
 GALINA VOSKOBOEVA: Um, I think I just played pretty successful this year, and I'm pretty confident right now. And we are working with my coach, Alina, ex-tennis player.   
 Actually, I was not that nervous, you know, against who I was playing, so I just knew that I can play good and that's it.   
  
  Q. When did you start realizing that the dropshot was going to be so successful? Because it seemed like you were using it a bit, and then all of a sudden you were using it more and more the second set.   
 GALINA VOSKOBOEVA: My dropshots are always successful. (Smiling.)  
Q. You were talking a bit about your success so far that year. Has much changed in your game?  
 GALINA VOSKOBOEVA: It's -- probably yes, because last year I didn't play. I had the injury.   
 And from this year, you know, I was just really happy that I could come back and start playing again. So everything went pretty good.  
 So probably I was relaxed in the beginning of the year, and it just went this way.   
  
  Q. You were aggressive on your serve. Do you think that benefited you, like worked to your advantage?  
 GALINA VOSKOBOEVA: Yes, but my serve, it was always good, just of course last year it was not good.  
 But it always helped me. But anyway, I'm always working on it, and I'm trying to improve it.   
 So I think it's getting better, also.   
  
  Q. I don't know how accurate this is, but the Wikipedia biography, it says that you hunt pigs. Do you hunt boars?   
 GALINA VOSKOBOEVA: (Laughter.) Yes, you know, I found that probably it's not interesting anymore to go to the cinema or to read books, so I decide to change something. You know, when I have free time I just go hunting pigs. Why not?   
 For Russians it's normal when we have free time just, you know, go for hunting pigs.  
  
  Q. What's the biggest one that you've been able to snare down?  
 GALINA VOSKOBOEVA: Sorry?   
  
  Q. What's the biggest pig or boar that you've been able to hunt?  
 GALINA VOSKOBOEVA: No, of course not. No, it's a joke.   
  
  Q. How did that get started?  
 GALINA VOSKOBOEVA: Being serious, we just found it out recently with my -- actually, she read that. I didn't read it before. So probably it was somebody's joke.  
 No, because other -- it also says that I like to play chess, yes, with Alex, so actually I also don't know who is Alex.   
  
  Q. But do you play chess?  
 GALINA VOSKOBOEVA: No. I like to play more cards.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk a bit about what was going through your head when you won the match and how you were feeling immediately after?  
 GALINA VOSKOBOEVA: Of course I was happy, and I was pretty glad, you know, that I could play good from the beginning until the end.   
 That's a good thing, you know, that in the end I could also play aggressive and, you know, to finish it by myself, not waiting for her mistakes.  
 So I'm pretty happy with that.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT