ATP CUP
January 6, 2020
Lloyd Harris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








L. HARRIS/N. Jarry
6-4, 6-4
South Africa - 1
Chile - 0
(Transcribed from ATP audio.)
Q. Good win. First win of the year. Talk about the match, kind of what worked for you, do you think?
LLOYD HARRIS: Yeah, I'm super happy. I went down early at the start with the break, but came back strong straight away, broke him to love, and I think I just built on confidence from there. Started serving well, hitting some spots, going more for percentage and I feel like I just constructed the match very well and it panned out as I wanted.
Q. What was the game plan coming in?
LLOYD HARRIS: We knew he was going to be a tough opponent. He's serving very big, going to for massive ground strokes, so with him it's always staying focused on your game, first of all. I wanted to keep going for my spots on my serve, try to stay as aggressive as possible on the forehand, but the idea was to make him play that extra ball, getting in good defensive positions when he was playing with very strong ground strokes and I think I defended really well.
Q. Do you feel like you, Team South Africa, is kind of settling in now as well?
LLOYD HARRIS: Yeah, for sure. I think the win's going to boost our confidence a lot. I mean, I saw now Kevin is already 4-love up. So I think it was a good start, something we needed after our 3-0 defeat against Serbia. So I think from here on out we'll just be more confident, play even better, looser, and we're up for the challenge. We're looking forward to our next couple matches.
Q. How fun has this week been for you guys?
LLOYD HARRIS: It's awesome. It's something different, like, all year round it's kind of you competing, but this team environment it's an amazing feeling. We've got a lot of South Africans here on our squad and our team, so I think all of us have enjoyed it thoroughly.
Q. What's it been like to start the year with this field, just kind of start with a bang?
LLOYD HARRIS: Yeah, it's nice, it's nice. It's kind of like a good way to start the year because it's an easier environment instead of just going back to the, kind of being one-on-one with, maybe your coach, maybe have you a trainer or whatever. This is something like fun and it's an exciting way to start the year, for sure. I'm super happy with the tournament so far. I think ATP Cup has been fantastic, to be honest.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT