ATP CUP
January 4, 2020
Lloyd Harris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. LAJOVIC/L. Harris
3-6, 7-6, 6-3
Serbia - 1
South Africa - 0
THE MODERATOR: First question.
Q. Well tough match out there but obviously some good moments. What do you take from that overall?
LLOYD HARRIS: Yeah, it was a very tough match at the end. I felt like I played really well at the start, got off to that early break and continued with the momentum throughout the first set, even the second set until like halfway I was feeling pretty much in control of the match and even just holding serve back and forth back and forth in that second set. But unfortunately I didn't feel my best towards the end of that second set and third set and he was just too good a man for me.
Q. You said you didn't feel your best, so was it a physical thing for you, like you just ran out of gas or what was it exactly?
LLOYD HARRIS: Yeah, it's, I mean it's tough, it's first match back after the off season. But all credit to him, he took advantage of me struggling a little bit, but, yeah, I wish I could have felt better out there.
Q. You had a good year last year, what did you think, what do you think is working well with your tennis that let's you finish in the top-100 and come here with some momentum?
LLOYD HARRIS: Yeah, I played especially well at the end of last year, to be fair, and, yeah, I mean I think the parts where I play well was just staying aggressive and using my serve and kind of my big game to my advantage. And I feel like I'm moving pretty well for a big guy and that's something I've really been working hard on. And when that's there I feel like my game just goes up another 10, 15 percent and I think that's the difference for me overall. So when I'm not moving and feeling that well my game can break down, unfortunately, like anyone, but I think that's some of the big changes I've made.
Q. How much do you look to Kevin as kind of a role model, for lack of a better word, because he's from your country but also similar games, big guys who can move.
LLOYD HARRIS: Yeah, I mean, excellent role model, if you think about it in theory. Because, I mean, I also like to serve big and stay aggressive, move forward a little bit, so very similar game. So I do use that for sure as well as some other guys.
Q. Have you guys been able to spend a lot of time together on the team, on the court, off the court this week?
LLOYD HARRIS: Yeah, it's been really fun, we have had good interactions with everybody, everybody on the team. We got to practice, all of us. I've practiced with everyone on the team, to be honest. So it's been a really fun week and an enjoyable week and we have put in a lot of hard work, so I mean let's see what we can do from here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT