NCAA MEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: ST. LOUIS
March 20, 2016
Chris Mack
James Farr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Wisconsin - 66, Xavier - 63   
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Xavier head coach Chris Mack and student-athlete James Farr.  Coach, an opening statement.   
CHRIS MACK: Obviously not the outcome that we expected, wanted.  Really, really tough locker room.  Told the players in the locker room that the sun will shine tomorrow.  It doesn't feel like it.  But it always does.  And just grateful.  We had an unbelievable season.  It's hard to end this way.  Give Bronson Koenig all the credit in the world.  I don't know if I've ever been on the wrong end of two dagger 3s like that in the last 11 seconds of the game.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  Coach, what goes through your mind when you see the ball actually go through the hoop there?  
CHRIS MACK: I knew it was good.  I mean, in terms of beating the, beating the buzzer.  Been around this game long enough and I knew it was good.  It's just heartbreaking.  Guys like James and Remy have given this program their all, given their teammates their all.  And you know we didn't play poorly.  And that's always tough to take.  But to answer your question, just disappointment when it went through the net.   
 Q.  They got the ball with like four seconds left and called a timeout with two.  What was your plan defensively at that point knowing that there was just two seconds to get off a shot?  
CHRIS MACK: We couldn't have played better defense.  You know, we put Jalen on the ball so they couldn't lob it under the basket and get a quick tip.  We told our players that if they ran into any screening actions off the ball to go ahead and switch it.  But it had to be a contact switch so we didn't have two defenders on one player and none on another.   
And Remy did a great job.  The screens really didn't get contact with them.  Kid caught it going away from the basket and turned around and shot a contested 3.  And Remy did his job, didn't foul him.  Made him take a tough shot.  99 times out of 100 -- I've been in that position a lot -- the ball doesn't go in, you go to overtime.  But again he's a senior, and a terrific player.  Big-time shot.   
 Q.  Could you talk a little bit, Remy did a really nice job on that kid tonight.  And to have it happen at the end that way, can you just kind of talk about that a little bit?  
CHRIS MACK: I think I just did.  The first three got caught on a switch.  When he made the first three to tie the game, there's probably 11 seconds, I think, when it went in.  I was contemplating really trying to get our players' attention to go ahead and foul.  But I wanted to get it under 10.  There's just too much time to play with if you foul with 11 seconds left.  He makes both free throws.  Now you have to inbound the ball against pressure.  I knew we were still going to get the ball back, which we did.  Again, he made two of the biggest daggers I've ever been around.   
 Q.  James, obviously a very tough ending.  Can you speak a little bit just to the season, I mean your senior season; you really had a lot of records broken.  You guys had an impressive year.  Could you speak a little about that?  
JAMES FARR: I had a marvelous senior year.  Not just talking stats-wise, just the morale of the team, the chemistry we all had.  For it all to be over now, I'm going to miss it.  But like Coach Mack said, the sun shines tomorrow.  I'll definitely cherish this for the rest of my life.   
 Q.  James, I noticed right when the game was over the first thing you did was hug some teammates.  Can you talk about that particular moment, what was going through your head right then?  
JAMES FARR: Yeah, at that moment, I felt like the shot was good myself.  So I just tried to stay strong, tried to hold it all in. I just told my teammates I love them and I'm going to miss playing with them.  That's pretty much it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT