NBA FINALS: LAKERS VS. HEAT
October 1, 2020
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Anything that you can take from your Finals experience that you were able to share with the team last night or today?
ANDRE IGUODALA:   Nothing that I've -- with the individual things between guys.  Just anxiousness and anxieties that come with the game.  Just enjoying the process and making the most of it, embracing it through the good and the bad.
So just taking it one day, one game at a time.  Then you're locked in so much and so much is going in the brain because you want to win so bad, and those are all good things.
Q. This team obviously deals with adversity well.  How is the spirit of the team today?
ANDRE IGUODALA:   We got a strong unit, very tough, competitive unit.  We been through a lot this season, through the length of it, through guys being in and out.
So I think spirit is really good, where it needs to be.  Just being ready to get another crack at it tomorrow.
Q. Just wanted to ask you about Kendrick [Nunn].  He played well obviously last night.  Anything you spotted in him last night that changed or is it just getting back into a rhythm making shots?
ANDRE IGUODALA:   Well, he' done a great job of just staying ready.  You know, that's something that we all talk about with the Heat coaching [staff], just being ready and keeping yourself not just physically ready but mentally ready, too.  He's been proving he's growing as a basketball player, as a person over this last season being with the team and making most of his opportunities.
You know, an opportunity to just sit back and watch us through the playoffs not playing as much as he would like, but knowing if the opportunity came he would be ready for the moment and he showed that last night.  Excited for his opportunities moving forward as well.
Q. Just dealing with their size, obviously Spo played small at times when they had one big on the floor.  How overwhelming can it be to deal with their size as you felt last night?
ANDRE IGUODALA:   It's a part of the game.  It's good to go through that and have that experience and see how you can adjust and prepare for it even better into the following games.
So it's something that uses their strength, and we got a chance to experience and feel that.  It's about us making the right adjustments and doing what we got to do so it doesn't hurt us as much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT