NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
May 30, 2018
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The team obviously announced you're out for Game 1.  Any update on how you're feeling, what you're thinking?  How's it looking?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Yeah, just trying to get back as soon as possible.  Just keep grinding away at the process.   
 Q.  Is it more of a pain thing, a structural thing?  You just can't move right right now?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Yeah, just trying to figure out how to move in general.  Making some progress.  Slower than we expected, but we're just being realistic.   
 Q.  It was reported that you had a second opinion on this thing.  Are you getting clarity, at least, when it comes to what you're dealing with?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: We've had a lot of opinions, just to be assured.  But I think that's just standard.  I think some of that could be -- not blown out of proportion by somebody reporting it, but it could be taken as someone not doing their job.  It's someone doing their due diligence and having the right clarity and making sure they're on the right track.  We're all on the same page at this point.   
 Q.  What can you do, since you're not playing, to just help this team prepare off the court for The Finals against the Cavs?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I think it's planning every day like you're playing, first and foremost, so the guys see that you're engaged.  In the last couple games at the Houston series, I was interacting a lot with Coach and a few of the guys coming off the bench, just making sure that we're all on the same page.  It's almost like you're playing who is on the floor.   
 Q.  The numbers say you're the best defender against LeBron.  What adjustments do you feel the Warriors have to make without you?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I'm going to quote one of my favorite rappers, Joe Budden.  He said numbers always lie.  You can't always believe in numbers.  I just think staying in tune, staying locked in.  LeBron is a very cerebral player.  He does a very good job of always being a threat, whether he's on the ball or off the ball.  He does a really good job of making his teammates threats at any given time.  So you've got to stay locked in.  You can't take any possessions off.   
 Q.  Have you had a chance to watch him in these playoffs and form an opinion about what he's done this year in particular?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Yeah, of course you watch.  But I don't really have opinions and stuff like that.  You respect the talent and you respect all your opponents.  I have an appreciation for all the guys in the league.  Just looking forward to the challenge and going out there and seeing how I can help my team win.   
 Q.  Is it tough to stay patient at this time?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Yeah, you can get impatient.  There are times where you can take yourself out of a good manner with it taking time, which actually takes away from the healing.  The mind is a powerful thing.  So it's good to go through difficult situations because once you get out of it, you learn from it.  So I learned a lot from the time being out.   
 Q.  You know the history of the game, and I wonder just in terms of seeing the same team four times in a row on this stage, what's it like to walk it back with LeBron and the Cavs again?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Historically, there have been teams who have formed rivalries.  There's been a lot of documentaries.  And they stood the test of time as far as everyone gravitating toward it.   
So it seems like one of those similar situations.  We have a rivalry between Boston versus Lakers, and they made a documentary about it recently.  I think ESPN did like a 20-part series on it.  It just seemed like -- they said they hated each other.  That was kind of funny to me.   
I don't feel that way.  I just feel like it's two great teams.  The best teams going against each other.  I don't think there's anything wrong with appreciating your opponent.  But when you step on your lines, you compete.  You're trying to get the best of them.  It's the same they're trying to do for you, but there is none of that hate stuff.   
 Q.  What's it been like watching?  Wow tough has it been to sit there and watch?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I don't look at it that way.  I think I asked myself that one time, what would I do out there.  And it went away from my mind.  That's just wasted thoughts and energy, you know?  Just stay in the here and now and what can you do to help.  It's not what would I do; it's how can I help that guy in the position he's in to help the team win.  So that's what it's all about.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT