NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 8, 2017
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously a long way to go, you guys are still focused on Game 4, but how exciting is this moment knowing that in two days you won't have to talk to us for three months?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I got to talk to y'all in like three or four weeks.  Three weeks, four weeks.  I got to talk to y'all again right around July.  First week of July.   
 Q.  Well you got to talk to me --  
ANDRE IGUODALA: No, there's going to be some people there though.  KD, Steph, guys are going to be talking again.   
 Q.  So how do you balance staying in the moment and appreciating what you guys are accomplishing while also not getting ahead of yourselves?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Well I think we -- it's interesting, we had the conversation, we talked yesterday last night about why certain things happen to you and it's for you to grow.  I feel like we use the experience we had in the past to prepare you for moments in the future.  We have been in situations where we have had a huge advantage and it slipped out of our hand, it didn't work out the way we wanted it to, so -- and we got guys who never been here before.  So everyone's got to stay locked in, stay hungry, so that's what we're trying to preach.   
 Q.  Have you given any thought yet to where you guys would stand historically if 16-0 happens?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I have not.  I just was asked earlier, but you can't, I mean, you don't want to be a team you measure against to say, who is the best team to never win it.  So until the job's completed it's not even a thought.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the block on LeBron last night, did it give you some kind of personal revenge from last year's block that he had on you?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: No.  We got a league full of great players.  We got a lot of guys who can make some great plays.  You just are looking for the right opportunity to make a play for your team and it just happened to work that way.  So, I mean, you're not thinking that when the ball's being inbounded.   
 Q.  But after it happened?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: No, after the moment we had time left.  I mean, I knew we would get to the foul line, make the free throws, game over, but the series is not over with and you know how kind of karma can kind of work sometimes where you don't want to get too ahead of yourself.  So just stay in the moment, handle the business on that day, and got more business to handle.   
 Q.  Do you see like that KD can get even better?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Definitely.  We have, Steve Kerr and I have talked about that many times of how he can get better.  He's so dominant and so quiet, I think that's what makes him great.  Within our system, we can make it easier for him, just as easy as he makes it for us drawing so much attention.  So we definitely feel like we can play even better, we can take it to another level and that's what we're trying to do.   
 Q.  Going back to that block, did you know that LeBron was trying to shoot it from the corner and how he mixed up the ball, did you have that in mind?  Did you anticipate it?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I think the play was going somewhere else and I was kind of upset that I let him get to the corner, but he did a good job of kind of shedding himself and creating space to catch the ball.  And when you play basketball your feet will turn two ways to shoot.  He does kind of the opposite of the traditional way of turning to shoot, so if your hand is in the right place, you got a high percentage of causing him to, distracting him from shooting the ball cleanly.   
 Q.  Sounds kind of silly for a team that has a chance to go 16-0, but can you get better as you guys play together year after year and what does that mean for the rest of the league?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I don't think that's a silly question at all.  I think it's a great question.  I mean, I personally feel like this team can, there's another level.  And we do have a weakness, and Steve Kerr, he knows what it is, and I feel like I know what it is, and if we can continue to grow in that area, then it's really scary.   
 Q.  You played with Klay for almost his entire career.  Can you talk about watching him grow and becoming somewhat of a superstar in this league?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Yeah, I've had a really, I've had a really fun time watching Klay grow.  There's a lot of humor there.  But at the same time you kind of feel like a proud older brother to see a guy who wants it, who embraces it, does a lot of great things that people don't notice, and continues to grow within his role and being comfortable in that role.  He'll go down as one of the greatest shooters of all time.   
 Q.  What's that weakness that you talked about?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Something that we have.  It's not anything physical.  You can't see it.   
 Q.  A lot of teams that have competed for titles on a kind of multi-year basis have a tendency to splinter apart, whether it's money or ego or roles, that kind of thing.  Why is this team different?  Why do you think this team has a chance to stay together long enough to become a dynasty?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Well, I think everyone compliments each other really well, so there's no clashing.  Everyone does what they do really well within the grand scheme of things.  And if there is overlapping, then it is within the team concept or personalities, guys blending really well, and it makes the whole picture something that's beautiful.  So I think that comes into play.  So hopefully that happens, but we are here in the now and this is where we're trying to focus.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT