NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
June 3, 2017
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How important is it to have glue guys on the team.  People are telling me you're one of the glue guys.  How important is it to have glue guys on a team?
ANDRE IGUODALA: I think it's important.  I don't know if I'm a glue guy or not.
Q. If you had to describe a glue guy, how would you describe it?
ANDRE IGUODALA: I don't know.
Q. Okay.
ANDRE IGUODALA: I don't have a definition.  I mean, anybody can be a glue guy.  High scorer, high rebounder, high assist man.
I just try to be aware of what's happening during the game.  If that's a glue guy, then I guess it is.  But for me everyone is a part of the culture and everyone puts the pieces together, so everyone has to have that in them.
Q. Is there a veteran that you remember in the locker room that you think, man, this guy really keeps us together?
ANDRE IGUODALA: I think every team just, some teams have to have it, I think.  But like I said, it can be different for every team who that guy is.  But on a -- like there's some superstars, like they were glue for the team, they made sure everybody stayed together, always having that veteran presence is definitely important.
I guess the best definition is someone that's been around who knows the emotional roller coaster of the season, maybe been to the Playoffs, you see that on every championship team.  So we have a couple of those guys on our team, myself, Zaza, David West, we have all been in fires and tough games, tough series, so we just try to add to our team.
Q. Was [Leandro] Barbosa really one of those guys?
ANDRE IGUODALA: Well LB was just a positive presence.
Q. Did he calm Draymond down?
ANDRE IGUODALA: Yeah, I don't think it was just [that] -- he was just being himself, as far as his natural energy and his natural joy of life, kind of just distributed amongst the other guys.  It's always great to see a guy like that.  You can call him a glue guy, but a different type of perspective, not really saying a whole lot, but just his, the way he embraced everything and everyone, it was good to have him around.
Q. What does it mean to have guys like David West, Zaza, veteran guys, that this is all fresh to them, this is their shot at the title, what does it mean to have them?  Do you feel an extra responsibility to make this happen for them?
ANDRE IGUODALA: No, I don't think we feel extra responsibility, I think it's just you got veteran guys on your team and they're locked in at all times.  They have been in the League a long time and they understand what the moments mean, but they never really got here and now they have the opportunity to make the most of it and make sure everyone's locked in, they're locked in, they play really well when they're on the court.  So it's great to have them.
Q. You wouldn't take anything for granted being in The Finals, but is there anything that makes you appreciate how tough it is to get here when you see guys put their time in and not get here yet?
ANDRE IGUODALA: Definitely, I would agree with that.  Being here a couple times, you set your expectations to a high level, and you set the bar for yourself and sometimes you forget you need to do the little things.  So it's really fun to see those guys really locked in and it's good to have them around.  That freshness keeps you, it kind of can rub off on you.
Q. When you took the court the other night, did you know you were going to feel as good as you looked like you felt?
ANDRE IGUODALA: Yeah, not at all.  We have a great training staff, the rest was good for me.  It's always a sacrifice in life around this time, you're not doing anything, you're on the court, then you're going home.  It's a miserable time, but you keep hoping that it pays off.
Q. Any time you're in The Finals the stars come out to watch.  Some are louder than others.  What do you make of Rhianna's impact the other night?  Is that something you even noticed?
ANDRE IGUODALA: No, no.  I was just really focused on the floor, so anything outside of that --
Q. Did you hear her?
ANDRE IGUODALA: I don't pay any mind to it.
Q. What sort of adjustments are you expecting from them tomorrow?
ANDRE IGUODALA: We'll have to see.  You can try to think about different things that they might throw at you.  I'm sure they want to clear up some of their mistakes.  They had some turnovers.  We didn't have as many.  So I'm sure they want to have less turnovers and kind of pressure us a little bit more and be a little more physical.
When you have that margin of victory, they let the game go a little bit further as far as contact goes, you expect it to be physical and having to play through it and understanding that it's going to take a great effort.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT