NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS. HEAT
September 21, 2020
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Q. Just a couple quick ones for you.  First of all, is the time off a challenge because of the way you guys have been going about it game day, off day, or is it a blessing when some bodies might need some time?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Well, you just look at it both ways.  You know, if you -- you've just got to look at it that's how the NBA schedule goes, and we're really kind of creatures of the unknown or just adapting and being able to adjust to any environment or schedule.
 So just kind of have to roll with the punches, and then on the flipside if you do have some extra time you have some things that you can heal with the body, you try to take advantage of that, as well.
 Q. As it pertains to the thing that this defense takes pride in most, taking care of the paint first, first how disappointing was the result of what Boston accomplished in Game 3? And then how much did that wake up the idea of what needs to be done?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Yeah, well, they did a really good job of getting to the triggers early and making their adjustment and executing that adjustment well.  As you've seen before, the series has become a matter of adjustments and counters and then counters to counters.
 It's kind of a game of chess.  We've got to do a better job of imposing our will defensively with our principles and things we're trying to do.
 Q. I was curious about an update on the back spasms that had you out at the end of Game 2.  Was that a factor in the last game and was it a factor in not playing the second half?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Yeah, well, same thing.  Just trying to roll with the punches and understand that you've got some unknowns and the body may not react as well as you would like.
 One thing you don't want to be is a detriment to the team and just sticking through it and being ready for whatever lies ahead for you.
 Q. Last game they tried to park to a degree Enes Kanter during his brief stint on you defensively.  We saw Kemba on Jae Crowder.  You've been through this all the time with all your trips to The Finals.  How important are the adjustments to the adjustments when you get into a Game 3, Game 4, Game 5 of a playoff series?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Yeah, yeah, just doing a better job myself and anyone else when they try to throw a different look at you, just understanding -- getting to those triggers quickly, a little bit faster in terms of what you're trying to do offensively.
 Like I said before, making the counters to the counters and making sure that we aren't surprised by whatever is happening and knowing what puts us in a good position offensively and the triggers and things we need to do to make sure we're ready for any type of little nuances they throw our way.
 Q. It's been clear that in addition to the talent and the versatility, the true chemistry that is on this team has been a strong point.  The further along that you get in this playoff run, how much does that chemistry truly matter, and how are you seeing that pay off now at this point?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Yeah, that's important for all championship teams, you know, having that chemistry, especially on the court.  Probably only good thing about being in a bubble is getting a little bit of closer ties to the guys, and so you have to rely on -- the brain goes through a lot of different things, and in turn that might help you when you're out there on the court in those tough situations.  Spending more and more time with each other on the court, off the court.
 You really kind of get a good read on your teammates, whether they're having a good game or they're having a bad game, knowing how to respond to them, knowing how to pump them up.  All these little things are part of that chemistry that don't show up in the stats sheet, don't show up in analytics, but it really helps you interact with one another as the game is going on.
 Even when you're on the bench talking about the game and how you can help each other.
 Q. Tyler and Duncan both have told me how much you've meant to them, how much you've helped them in such a short amount of time.  What has it been like for you to come in at this point and be able to make such a fast impact?  How have you enjoyed that relationship with those young players specifically?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Yeah, well, I've seen a lot.  I had really good vets, so very appreciative of what it's like to have a good veteran teammate.  Just try and do the same thing for my guys.  I don't let people knowing about that.  I like when no one knows, so I try to take no credit at all.
 Q. What is special for you to be in a position to help two such young talented players?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Well, there's a human element to it in terms of being a professional athlete that people don't really grasp, things that you have to go through and the mind goes through, especially when the game is over.
 Just having some success, whatever success that I've had, I've been able to realize that there's -- it's like real life, and there's some other things that go on outside the game of basketball that everyone is going to have to adjust to at some point.  So just trying to get those guys in a good mind space to first and foremost appreciate the time that they have here, try take the most of it, make the most of it, but at the same time build those relationships because we rely on each other once it's all over.
 Q. To kind of follow on that, this is such an unusual circumstance.  You've been through so many playoff series and deep runs, but typically a game is over, a loss happens, you go home to your families.  It's a different environment.  Here you're in the bubble with these guys.  What has it been like, and just simply as a human being, what has it been like being there for almost two months?  How mentally taxing has it been?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Yeah, yeah, you have good days and you have bad days.  Luckily for us -- or I shouldn't say for us, but for myself, there's been more good days, which I really can appreciate.  Sometimes I have to remind myself to stay positive on those bad days, like today is kind of like a really (expletive) day.
 But just trying to stay positive through it all.  Understand we really are blessed to be in this position.  I've got to keep reminding myself of that.  But at the same time that's what's helping me.  My teammates are helping me through those down days.  I haven't had many, honestly.  When those guys are having down days, I'm there for them.  I think that goes to the chemistry thing, just picking each other up.
 I think this environment is, we're really built for this environment.  Kind of puts us at an advantage, and just keep reminding ourselves of that.  But that's brought the team even closer together.  We were already a tight-knit team, so we keep telling ourselves that we always planned to play to the end, so that's been our focus.
 Q. Michele has been here about as long as you guys have.  What has it meant that the leadership has been here to see good, bad, ugly, all of it?  What has that meant to you?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Yeah, we knew she was going to be here from the beginning.  I've been having a lot of conversations with her early on.  Chris Paul has done a hell of a job.  He's kind of -- the work he does flies under the radar and the work she's doing kind of flies under the radar in terms of the sacrifices that are being made, the time -- there's a lot of time put in, and she said from the beginning, How can I say I'm all in and really be there to support you guys if I'm not there with you guys?
 So she's in the trenches with us. And I've also been reading lately, and the leader of the next charge is going to be a woman.  Just really fortunate and blessed and happy to see the position she's been in and taking advantage of it and is really supporting us and being behind us 100 percent. And whenever we've called upon her, she's exceeded expectations.
 Q. Does she help when you have those rare bad days?  You said today is one of them.  Especially when it got bleak, really bleak in here, does her presence, is it calming?  What's her leadership style?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   She's no (expletive), you know, so she comes from that lawyer background.  She performs well in any environment, and it seems like the uglier the environment, the higher she performs.  And especially when it gets tense and it gets pressure time.  That's when she shines brightest.  We've had some tough days even before we got to the bubble and it really wasn't looking good, and she was a voice of reason.
 You know, there was specific reasons for certain decisions that were happening, and she made it clear and cut on why we should move in certain decisions with whatever decision was being made.  There was a lot of pressure taken off of us, and she's just been performing really well for us.
 Q. When it comes to Boston's dribble penetration, what is it you guys had to take away?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Well, I mean, defense is being protective.  When you're protective defensively, it takes a lot of those things away, and when you're being reactive, that's when the defense has two and three options.  That's when you're on your heels.
 When you're on your heels, that's when you're rotating, rotating, and eventually you're running out of guys and they're getting the looks that they want to get.  So, it's about being proactive, turning your weaknesses into strengths, and then like at the same time, the same way you have a confidence offensively you've got to have the same confidence defensively in your skill set.
 You may not be one of the highest jumpers, but you can put yourself and be a position guy where you can be at the right position to get the ball, whether you're least or most athletic.  All those little nuances come into play, as well, and that's one of the things I try to give to not just a younger player but guys that have been in the league for a while.
 You're one of the top stoppers in the league or you're a better defender than you believe.  It's the same type of things.  We went through some good film, not just after the last game but the first two games, too.  Just trying to put that full game together.  That's the benefit I feel like our team has is that we still haven't put a full complete -- our A+ game together, and we're still in a good position.
 Q. Earlier you talked about the vets; did you ever visualize you'd ever be that, especially when you're 21 and you look at 32 and you're like, I'll never get there, that's light years away, and now you're that guy?  How do you take that in when you get older in this league and you kind of have to accept it?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Yeah, I mean, it's not really that hard.  It's just something that you're supposed to do.  I forgot what book it was I was reading, but I think I've seen it multiple times in terms of once you master something it's your duty to give it back and teach it, so that's kind of my duty.
 I've seen it at all levels, high levels, and no matter if I'm the main guy, franchise player, or I'm one of the guys coming off the bench, just being a veteran player, being a role player, it's a different way of being all in.  It may not just be production but it may be in terms of being a leader and being a good veteran, being a good teacher, helping the guys through the tough times, helping them improve, giving them that confidence at the same time, giving them encouragement.
 I guess you reap what you sow, and just the energy that you put out there plays a major part in your progression as a human being, as well.
 Q. Do you get flashbacks to when guys used to come tell you that, and you're like, man, what are you talking about, or did you always listen to your vets?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Yeah, I had really good vets, so it was really easy to listen to them.  They did it the right way.  Yeah, I wasn't one of those guys who was promised to be -- make an All-Star team or play in the Olympics or win championships.
 Like I didn't know I was going to be in the NBA until I got drafted.  I was always appreciative of all the moments and just tried to make the most of it.
 Q. After playing alongside Gordon Dragic this year, I wonder what historical comparisons you see with his game or opponents or teammates you've played with or against in the past?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Yeah, well, he's from a part of the globe where there's a very high IQ of basketball that's been played historically, so he has a very amazing feel for the game.  He hits big shots in big moments, plays with some confidence.  He's been through the trenches, especially in the Euroleague and Euro basketball with his country winning the championships.  I can't pinpoint the year, but very recently.
 You know, he's done it.  He's got it in his game.  He's been huge for us in the Playoffs.  I learned a lot about him from -- similarities between me and him in terms of the regular season and even going into the Playoffs.  It's been a joy to see, a great teammate, a great guy.  But he's kind of like just that prototypical, high-IQ Euro player that is just -- he's been very key for us.  He hits big shots in key moments.
 You've seen in first quarters he starts off a little slow he'll be that guy that eases us back into our groove, that 10-point deficit we may have, he'll cut it to six like that (snaps).  He's been a pretty huge part of our success, and he's been a stabilizer for us in key moments throughout this run.
 Q. Do you see any like Manu Ginobili's game at all?
 ANDRE IGUODALA:   Yeah, I never played with Manu, only as an opponent.  But yeah, you know, everyone is thinking about the left-hand thing.  But I will say the simulators, those big shots, those big moments and that stabilizer, whenever the Spurs needed a bucket, Manu seemed to hit a huge shot.  Got to the line when he needed to, very crafty with their passes, and then that change of pace was very similar.
 But I'm explaining the same person when I say a guy who's a Euro player, who's got a high IQ, who's done well at an international level, big games internationally and been able to translate that here to the NBA game and impose his will upon the game.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT