NBA FINALS: CLEVELAND VS GOLDEN STATE
May 31, 2017
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This team has a good mix of guys that play hard and hate to lose, yet you guys have fun.  How healthy is that?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: That's always a good mix.  That's something that goes unnoticed easy, how everyone contributes to the team and we're all for one another.  I think that's always an ingredient that has to be a part of a team that has the success that we have had.   
And on the other side as well.  They all play hard and they all do their jobs together.  That's why you see them here.   
 Q.  Is this sort of a redemption series for you guys?  Do you even think about that?  Is there a different process with it?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I don't think about it too much.  We try to focus on the game and prepare for what's ahead and be locked in.   
 Q.  What do you see the difference in what happened last season to this season?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: They have different personnel.  Whenever teams have another year of experience with more guys, they're only going to get better.  The team communicates better with one another.  They seem to always be ready.   
 Q.  When you're guarding LeBron, what is more important, stopping him as a scorer or as a facilitator?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I don't think you can focus on one or the other because it hurts you.  You have to keep your head on a swivel and stay locked in.  They have a lot of weapons that can hurt you.   
 Q.  Does it mean anything to you that you guys have the chance to make history if you sweep The Finals?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: No.  Actually, I don't really care about history too much.  I try not to focus on that either.  Just handle business the way you're supposed to handle business, and that's the way you make history.  If you're trying to chase something, I think that kind of deters what you're trying to do.  So for us, it's just handling business.   
 Q.  Is that a lesson at all from last year when you guys had the historic regular season but didn't get the ending you wanted?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I don't look at it like that, but I can see that you can learn from that.  I would agree with that and I think you kind of do some things differently, especially the rest throughout the season.  Be smart with that.  And it's helped us so far in getting here.   
 Q.  There are a lot of guys in these Finals who have little kids.  Is your wife still -- has she given birth?  What is that like on the verge of, during all this, having a new one come around?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: She doesn't like me giving out clues.  It's not too bad.  I got a pretty good family on both sides and lots of good people around.  So it's kind of a sacrifice everybody is making for this little window.   
 Q.  You say you're not focused on making history, but are you able to appreciate the unprecedented nature of three consecutive Finals against the same team, which has never happened before?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: No, I'm not.  I'm just wired a little different.  I kind of have it in me to enjoy my career, so I'm always shooting for something.  If I reach a goal, I'm going to shoot for something like an hour after that.  Like, what's next?   
So I haven't been able to enjoy it.  Just trying to embrace the moment and make the most of it.  I just need to be locked into the game.   
 Q.  Where do you stand on the rivalry question?  I know some people would debate whether it is or not.  But three straight seems like it's building and brewing?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Yeah, I don't know.  I just don't really have an opinion on it.  Like, whatever, we keep meeting up with a great team.  They're dominant in the East, and we did some good things in the West.  I think both teams have great characteristics of how you build a great team.   
 Q.  Is there a continuing of sadness without Steve being able to coach this team?  Have you guys been able to buoy him a little bit and he you?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Yeah, he's there.  I got a text from him this morning about the game, about things we could do better.  So it's almost like he's always there.  And the way our environment and culture is set up, when someone is absent, they try not to miss a meeting.  We know exactly what to do in his absence.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT