NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 18, 2016
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How is your health?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I'm breathing.   
 Q.  What were you able to do today?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I was able to do a lot.  I've been getting treatment around the clock.  The training staff have been doing a helluva of a job, just making sure I'm good.  I just had a really long flight, and it just kind of built up on me a little bit.  But the staff has done a great job.   
 Q.  Have you been dealing with it for a while or did that pop up?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: It kind of just popped up.  Like I said, a long flight and bed and just fatigue, and a lot of minutes lately.  It's just a perfect storm.  But I'm glad we caught it early as opposed to happening in a Game 7.   
 Q.  Were you talking about the flight out to Cleveland?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Yeah.  Just bad timing for me.  But like I said, kind of perfect timing that it happened then as opposed to happening in a situation like tomorrow.   
 Q.  Did the extra day off help?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Extra time and things like that always helps.  Had the game been today, I feel like in this situation you make a way, no matter what it is.  I would have said I was perfectly fine if the game was today.   
 Q.  In Game 6, it looked like you were obviously struggling.  How tough is it to try to stay with your standards?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: You just try to will yourself to do it.  I felt in a bad position in Game 6, but saw a lot of things and still made a couple plays.  A few things I couldn't quite do, but I felt like there was a way around it.  So figuring it out, and the main thing is not using it as an excuse.  I'm still trying to find a way.   
 Q.  It's safe to assume you didn't practice today?  I know it's so late in the season, you don't necessarily need to practice.  But as much rest as possible for your back?  Is that fair to say?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: No, it's more getting the right treatment.  You're being really active anyway, so it's similar to practice.  So not really missing anything.   
 Q.  But no practice today just to confirm?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: No, I went through some things in practice.  We didn't do much.  We walked through some things.  The actual physical part I was actually rehabbing, which is still the same kind of active motions of the body.  So like I said, I didn't miss anything.   
 Q.  How did you feel last year at this time?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I mean, late in the season everybody's got something.  I was in some pain last year.  You just get numb because of the celebration and everything crazy that's going on.  But everybody's banged up a little bit.   
 Q.  With Game 7, what about the timing?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Yeah, but I don't think anyone's 100%.  Being an athlete for a long time, you understand you're going to have some bumps and bruises.  You don't want to use it as an excuse, so you tell yourself you're fine.  You go all out and do what it takes to help your team win.   
 Q.  In what ways did the back most inhibit you in Game 6?  What aspects of your game were most inhibited by your back?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: You just couldn't take off as well as you would like, as far as sprinting up the floor.  Going up for rebounds was really tough; I had position to get a few, but had to wait until it came to you.  Like I said, you do other things to combat that as far boxing out and getting good ball position so you don't have to put yourself in a vulnerable situation.   
 Q.  How do you feel about the collective spirit and were guys' minds are at?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I think Steve [Kerr] has done a really good job of keeping us in the right place.  Film sessions have been really good.  Showing a lot of bad things, but at the same time getting us to understand that if we correct them, we put ourselves in a good situation and set ourselves up to do something special.   
 Q.  What are some of the positives you learned, especially from the third quarter, in Game 6?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Transition defense is going to be really important against an explosive team.  Being who we are and getting to the core of who we are offensively and how the ball moves.   
Both teams are going to try to impose their will.  We've got two really good teams.  It comes down to one last game, which is what you all would like.  It's good for the game, I guess.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT