NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 12, 2016
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You haven't had much luck in terms of your groin area.  It's been hit a couple times already in this series.  Are you surprised that Draymond got a flagrant when a flagrant wasn't assessed on any of your incidents?
ANDRE IGUODALA: Not really surprised.  Circumstances, different voices, different opinions being voiced.  Depending on who it may come from at times, it might hold weight with someone else.  But that's just the way things happen sometimes.  You've got to try to learn from it.  That's how you become a better person, a better basketball player, a better whatever.  You learn from experience and try to move forward.  If it was to occur again, act in a different manner.
Q. What is the trickle-down effect as far as the responsibilities on the court now with Draymond gone?
ANDRE IGUODALA: It's the model we've had in the last few years, Strength in Numbers.  You don't look for one guy to try to pick up the slack.  You look for 14 guys to pick up the slack in little bits here and there.  I get a few more rebounds, [Harrison Barnes] get a few more points.  The responsibility of the playmaking, we're going to do that collectively, Shaun Livingston and myself.  There is an opportunity for a guy to step in.  The whole world is watching for him to make a name for himself.  But within the team setting, that's something we've preached the whole year, and we're confident we have guys that can do that.
Q. Is there a way the team, especially you as a veteran leader, they need to reach out to or support Draymond maybe one-on-one?  Because this is a really tough moment to possibly not be on the court.
ANDRE IGUODALA: We all support each other.  We definitely wouldn't want any one of our teammates to be in this situation.  But we all give the advice and we try to learn from the situation, not harp on it.  The main thing is not feel bad for ourselves and not use that as an excuse.
We're playing basketball for a living.  We're doing something we really love to do.  Billions of people would pray to be in a situation to actually just step on the floor one time.  So, just like I said, try to learn from the experience, try not to let it happen again, but grow from it as well.
Q. The answer might be obvious, Andre, but just overall, what does Draymond bring to the floor?  Is it fair to say he's this team's emotional leader, and what will be missing in Game 5 in that sense?
ANDRE IGUODALA: We can say Strength in Numbers because every individual player on our team brings something to the big picture of the team.  He's a big part of that.  He's an All-Star.  He has an opportunity to represent the country this upcoming summer.  He's worked his tail off to prove a lot of doubters wrong, to become a complete player.  He pretty much had the total package coming in; nobody really quite knew.  But the areas he needed to work on, he's polished himself up and he's become a complete player.  Everyone is a reason why we won a championship last year, and he's just as big a reason as anyone else.
It's a big void that's missing.  But we've had games throughout the season where Steph has gone down, Klay has gone down, Draymond may be out or myself, and we just try to pick up the slack as a unit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT