NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 9, 2016
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was the biggest difference that you saw with the your team?
ANDRE IGUODALA: You know, the Cavs came out and did a great job of establishing themselves early, setting a tone, and kind of put us in panic mode.  You've got to give them a lot of credit for having that energy and fighting for their lives.
Q. It seemed like the time the things went right for you guys was the beginning of the second quarter, you kind of downshifted and maybe went smaller.  What did you see was different in the start of that quarter that you can bring into Game 4?
ANDRE IGUODALA: Well, we've got to have a sense of urgency, but still being calm, still not being in panic mode.  We've had times throughout the season whether we're up or down that we can kind of get panicked and get too loosey with the ball.  They turned us over a bit.  But at the same time, a lot of unforced errors.  And then rebounding collectively.  They killed us on the glass.  We understand that that's a big key for us and that's an area we've got to do a better job at.
Q. You mentioned the unforced errors.  You have a very smart team, obviously.  Do you think that sometimes works against you occasionally?  Do you sometimes overthink it out there?
ANDRE IGUODALA: I would disagree with one part.  I won't say which part.  No, I just think don't try to get it all back at one time.  And sometimes you've got to hit a bunch of singles to get runs in.  You can't just look for home runs, and sometimes we go for home runs.  When you try to force home runs, it usually bites you in the ass, and it can come back to haunt you.  Taking a quick three or shooting too quickly early in the shot clock and not making the defense work, they get the rebound and they're off to the races.  I think that happened in the second half.  We were trying to get it back all at once, and that led to them getting easy transition baskets.
Q. Do you have an explanation for the blowouts?
ANDRE IGUODALA: Yeah, one team's scoring a whole lot more than the other team.  That seems to be the trend.
Q. It is the first time after so many years that we have so many of those.
ANDRE IGUODALA: Yeah.
Q. Up to 50 points.
ANDRE IGUODALA: Teams have been really taking advantage of their home court these first three games and for us being on the road Game 4, we don't want that to be the case.
Q. I just want to take you back, if I can, when you were traded here and the lengths that Bob Myers went to get you here.  How privy were you to everything he had to move around to get you here and how much you mattered to him?
ANDRE IGUODALA: You'd have to ask Bob.
Q. Well, I will.
ANDRE IGUODALA: Bob would say -- Bob always says he didn't have to come get me.  I just had to convince them.  Then once they were convinced, we kind of made it happen.
I'd been in the league for, I don't know, eight, nine years up to that point, so I kind of had been around for a while and kind of had a vision for myself and where I wanted to be.  This was the vision where we're at right now.  So just trying to make the most of this other blessing.
Q. Bob had a very unconventional route to get here.  What are the things about him that impresses you the most?
ANDRE IGUODALA: Well, I've gotten to know him a lot over the last three years that I've been here.  He's a very open and honest guy, straightforward.  You know, you don't get that, especially coming from a guy from his background being an agent.
Q. You expect the opposite almost.
ANDRE IGUODALA: Right, you expect the opposite, but it's interesting.  We've kind of started our own little club, he and I.  You try this out, you try this out, his family and my family.  And he used to work with my agent as well, so when I need some history on him to see if he's BSing me or not, I can just go to my agent.
But he's been a straightforward guy, and sounds very simple and this is very like plain word, but it means a lot in society today.
Q. Can you give me one example of that straightforwardness that just really says, oh, wow, that's not what I'm expecting to hear?
ANDRE IGUODALA: No, I can't.  He would get in trouble.
Q. Who would get in trouble?
ANDRE IGUODALA: Bob would.
Q. Obviously every game is very different.  But have you ever been through such a situation where the level is comparable to the situation here?
ANDRE IGUODALA: We've been here before in this situation, and we've been down many times which can mentally be taxing on you.  Being down 3-1, being down 2-1 a few times.  With the regular season we just had, with all the coverage and the pressures of that.  So we've seen some of the situations, but this is kind of the height of the NBA and this is where you want to be.  Both teams have been in pressure situations many a times and we'll just try to continue to force our will and take it one game at a time and get a win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT