NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 4, 2016
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANDRE IGUODALA: This has been a real tough year.  We've had a lot of our leaders that we looked up to that have passed, Prince happened earlier in the Playoffs and now Muhammad Ali.  It's a different type of generation that we're in right now.  So those guys don't get the type of respect that they deserve.  Even though they do get a lot of respect, we don't know how much they sacrificed for us.
You know, that's something that my community misses is the leadership and what it really means to sacrifice especially in your prime.  Imagine one of us just stop doing what we're doing in the prime of our careers to make a change for our people.  That wouldn't happen today.
So just he lived his life and he stood for something, and that means more than anything that fame or money or glory can try to make up for.
Q. Did you ever meet him?
ANDRE IGUODALA: No, I actually never had a chance to.  I followed him a little bit, read a little bit about him.  But his legacy will last many lifetimes.
Q. What kind of impact did he have on you?
ANDRE IGUODALA: Just as an African-American athlete and being willing to stand for something and not being afraid to voice my opinion when I feel like it's needed for me to say something for my people or speak freely to my people and not worry about the consequences or the backlash that may come financially from a higher power that may want me to do something differently.
Q. Driving in today I was kind of flipping through talk radio, sports radio, and the question people are talking about is not can the Warriors beat the Cavaliers, but can the Cavaliers win a game.  Pretty high on what you guys did in Game 1. Are we getting ahead of ourselves?
ANDRE IGUODALA: That's what our day and age has come to.  Looking ahead, and there are so many opinions that you forget about the actual process, you forget about what goes into every single game preparation.  You forget how concentrated our league is with talent.  There's a lot of talent.  There's a lot of good teams, and anybody can win on any given night.
They're a championship team and they're championship caliber, and one night may not be the night, but the next night may not be our night or it could be both teams' night and they could just get the best of us.
That's something we don't look at at all because we can only control our efforts.  But that's definitely not the case.  They're hungry and they want to win a championship, and if we don't play our best basketball, they can beat us.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT