NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 9, 2015
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   Were there times during those first three quarters when you guys felt overwhelmed out there? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   No, I don't think so.   We've had times throughout the season where it seemed like we weren't in sync, and we just keep gutting it out and find a way through it.   So similar case tonight.   We just couldn't find our rhythm or we haven't been able to find our rhythm. 
Then we had those small spurts where it seems to be going for us, but tonight it was a little too late.

Q.   You've been the most consistent player on your team both on the offensive and defensive end.   Is part of that because you're a veteran, you've been through a lot more experiences?   And how can you kind of get that information, that experience to them to make sure that your team doesn't panic and realize it's still a long series to go? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   Yeah, that plays a part in it.   Just being in the NBA for a long time, having a lot of experience on this level.   But we've just got to stick to who we are and not get outside of ourselves or fall into any traps or things that may distract you from what's going on the court. 
There's a lot of things going on outside of The Finals that can draw your attention.   But once the ball's thrown up, the game is the game, and we've just got to focus on us.

Q.   Is there a sense of urgency?   You guys are down 2‑1 on the road.   No one on the team has ever played in The Finals on the road before? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   Yeah, every game is a sense of urgency.   We've discussed that from day one of the playoffs.   Every playoff win is going to be hard.   You really don't care how you get a win.   A win is a win.   You've got to take every possession like it's your last possession.   I feel like that's the energy that Cleveland's playing with. 
They have some veteran leadership, and they have a lot of guys who have been here, so the message is kind of throughout the team. 
But with us being here for the first time, we've taken a few jabs.   But I feel like we'll wake up and we'll get there.

Q.   You guys were in this situation in the Memphis series.   I know it's a completely different series, but are there parallels to that and anything you can draw from going into a Game 4 on the road down 2‑1? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   Well, you know you've been down before and you can get out of it.   But it's easier said than done.   It's up to us to do the things that we haven't been able to do on both ends of the floor.   Executing small things.   Small things are really biting us in the ass a little bit.   So loose balls they've gotten to every one of them.   Offensive boards, second‑chance points, they seem to have a knack for those things, and we've got to come up with them.

Q.   It's like they've dictated tempo and kind of forced you guys to play their game all series long.   How do you guys change it and get to playing your tempo or at least close to it? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   Well, it seems kind of weird but not weird that we've always started off a little slow.   But as the series have gone on, we've gotten a little bit better, and we've gotten into our flow.   So hopefully that will happen sooner than later.   But we're playing against a great team, I think, who is very underrated.   LeBron makes a lot of those guys good, but they're a very good team.   They're just taking it to us right now. 
But we've got to focus on little things.   Cutting hard, back screens, sacrificing for one another.   I feel like we can get there, but we've got to put our minds to it and get it done.

Q.   I'm curious, 55 points through three quarters today, I think 59 on Sunday through three.   Can you talk about the Cleveland defense?   Why have they been so successful and does it surprise you that they've been so successful?   And how well do they stack up against the best defenses you saw in the West? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   They're really in sync, and they do a good job of doing their scouts, and trying to find a flaw or weakness in our offense.   When we don't get enough passes, we seem to rush even more.   So we've just got to take our time, settle in, make them work a little bit more defensively.   I think we found something there with David Lee that's working for us.   So he's going to get some more minutes, I would like to think, going forward, and then other guys will see how effective he is and they'll do the same. 
So we'll have a steady diet of something we found that can work throughout the rest of the series.

Q.   Was there a foul during your last three‑point shot? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   I didn't shoot any free throws (smiling).   Y'all take care. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT