NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 5, 2015
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the roar of the crowd lasted night when you went into overtime.   Can you talk about that and the fans?   
ANDRE IGUODALA:   This fan base has been like this since I've been in the league, and I don't know how long it goes back, but they've always been very supportive of their team.   You know, to say you have the best fan base, but we really can say that because we go to different arenas and we don't see anything like the one we have here.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the transition from (indiscernible).   
ANDRE IGUODALA:   You're just playing basketball.   Initially you get caught up in the hype because you get the question asked a lot.   But you're only human and trying to figure out how you adjust.   But once you get into the flow and the rhythm of the game, it's just all about finding a comfort level and adjusting to it.   Once you do that, you have a great team with a lot of depth, playing with different guys, playing with starters, playing with your second unit.   
I just feel like I have a great rhythm with both teams.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) struggling kind of to get over nerves (indiscernible) different energy in The Finals games.   What did you learn from Game 1 now that you guys have settled in now?   
ANDRE IGUODALA:   Well, the game is the game.   You realize once you get into it there may be a lot of things that happen off the court, even with just (indiscernible) the media, you're not used to seeing that and the coverage.   You kind of have to focus as far as your attention and being careful with certain challenges.   
But once you get on the court and the game starts, you realize the game is the game and you've got to execute the way you play in order to win.  
   
 Q.   Of all the teams you've played with?   
ANDRE IGUODALA:   We're a very talented team.   We have a lot of depth.   We have a good mix of young guys, guys who are in their prime, veteran players who have been with good and bad teams.   Guys that have had success.   It's just a really good match.   We have a great relationship with our coaching staff from top to bottom, and it's just working really well for us.   
Hopefully it will work for us one more time.  
   
 Q.   Your teammates seemed to have some nerves early in that game.   You talked about being an 11‑year veteran.   Did you tell them anything throughout the course of the game to try to get them to settle down?   
ANDRE IGUODALA:   Well, I think we've got seven championships, and so they've seen it all and they've been through it.   They've pretty much kept us in the right mind frame of what to expect and how to adjust.   
We've still got to go through it and experience it and get a feel for it.   So the first quarter was kind of (indiscernible) for us.   But it was good for us to go through the experience.  
   
 Q.   Frustrating at all that James could throw elbows and you get called for a foul?   
ANDRE IGUODALA:   No, not frustrating at all.   You understand in the game some things go your way, some things won't.   You've just got to play and adjust.   A new phrase for us throughout the playoffs has been stay with it, stick with it.   We've had some times where we've been down (indiscernible) got wind (indiscernible).  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT