NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 3, 2015
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Will your team play match‑ups if Harrison has or you have a small guy on you?   Are you going to play towards match‑ups or are you going to just do what you guys did? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   Well, we'll do what we do.   The thing about our team is we've done such a good job of evolving into kind of this team and find the mismatch within our sets, it just gets found in the wash as they like to say.   So we'll see Harrison as a mismatch.   And we'll still run our set.   Harrison knows when to cut to the block, and we'll have a few misdirections to get to something, so we don't get stacked.

Q.   Do you feel that Harrison is the X‑factor of this series, or do you think it's more complicated than that? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   I don't look at it like that.   I look at it as we just need to focus on who we've been, who we are.   That's taken us this far, and I feel like it will take us to where we're trying to get this next, until now, 16 days at the latest.

Q.   How much do you look forward to guarding LeBron? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   I'm just looking forward to playing basketball.   Going out there and playing.   There is a lot of media attention across the globe.   There are only two teams left.   So looking forward to just taking advantage of the moment and enjoying it.

Q.   Anything special about him and guarding him?   I'm sure you've answered this six times. 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   Well, you know, you've got a great player, best player in the game right now.   He's had a lot of success.   He's had a lot of attention and a lot of pressure on him that he's been able to overcome and excel in every situation from a young age.   So he's been here the last five times.   So a lot of attention is on him. 
So for us, we've got a tough task in front of us, but we also have a game plan we're going to try to execute and try to help us win.

Q.   What are you looking forward to the most in this Finals? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   I'm looking forward to the most?   Trying to win one game at a time and being the first team to get to four wins.

Q.   Can I ask you about Andrew Bogut and what kind of qualities has the Australian brought to this? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   Qualities as an Australian?   That's a good question.   Bogut is one of my favorite teammates because he's just brutally honest.   He's not afraid to tell you how he feels.   He's a very smart player, very cerebral basketball player and brings a lot to our team from the five position.   Being comfortable with who he is in his role, being a defender.   Not looking to be in the spotlight.   He's just happy to help the team win anyway possible.

Q.   There's been a lot said about the other Australian in the playoffs in Cleveland, Dellavedova, about him being a dirty player.   Do you have any say on that? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   No, I mean, for us like I've been saying throughout the playoffs, even throughout the whole year, we're worried about ourselves.   We try to control what we can control out there on the court and execute to the best of our abilities. 
We feel like if we do that, we'll have a great chance.

Q.   How does the team feel right now?   Is there a little anxiety, a little nervousness?   Is that necessary going into Game 1?
ANDRE IGUODALA:   For me it's kind of human nature.   For me it's the game is the game.   These things kind of take you out of your normal routine and it can throw you off in a second.   But I think once the tip‑off starts we'll be fine.   We'll be locked in and ready to go.

Q.   Is this hype, all of this, is this more or exactly what you expected? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   It's probably what I expected.   Played in the World Championships in the Olympics and had a lot of media presence, and you see a lot of different things throughout your career as a basketball player.   Draymond Green has been in the Final Four a few times, so he's kind of seen the media scene and been on a great team in college. 
So as you go through your basketball ranks, you kind of see everything, and nothing really surprises you.

Q.   With the USA Basketball experience and your time playing against LeBron in the Eastern Conference, do you have tips for your guys, or is there really any tip you can give? 
ANDRE IGUODALA:   Everybody has their scouting report and what they want to do to implement to the team and give them the best chance to win.   So we'll have a few things we're going to try to do.   You know, everybody's going to talk about LeBron's scoring, but what makes him a great player is he's really a fast, innovative, smart player.   Getting out in passing lanes, being very dynamic and kind of changing the tempo of the game at any given time.   So it's really small things that you have to worry about and key in on in order to win. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT