NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2006
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  It looked like you had a lot of open dunks, were you at all thinking about tomorrow with some of those tonight? 
 ANDRE IGUODALA:  Oh, not at all.  Tomorrow is going to be a fun day.  I've got a couple of things under my sleeve.  I want to try something new.  Everything I did today, you've seen before.  I am going to try some new things tomorrow. 
 Q.  Do you have any legs left?  You were really getting up there all night? 
 ANDRE IGUODALA:  Yeah, and this is the third night in a row, playing Thursday, now tonight and then again tomorrow. 
 You know, just going to rest up and get some ice.  Just going to have fun tomorrow, not put any pressure on myself, just going to go out and have fun. 
 Q.  Does it mean more to you to be the second 76er to get the MVP and have a performance like that after Allen, watching him? 
 ANDRE IGUODALA:  It definitely means something, and Allen, the way he plays and carries himself as a ballplayer.  Actually I had no clue I had a chance of getting an MVP award.  I was coming in to make sure we won.  And having my teammates look out for me, and I had some open shots and made them. 
 Coach kept me on the court, so I have to thank him.  We just had fun out there. 
 Q.  In the second half were you trying to get 3-pointers, trying to mix it up because they were expecting you to go in? 
 ANDRE IGUODALA:  We had a lot of breakaways for dunks.  You know, we were just getting out on the break and they couldn't get back.  We just spread it out a little bit, got some open threes.  I think I've been shooting the ball well this year, so as long as I'm confident, I feel like I can make all of the threes I can get. 
 Q.  Tonight your performance is very great, and is it the biggest award for you? 
 ANDRE IGUODALA:  Is it the biggest award? 
 Q.  Yeah. 
 ANDRE IGUODALA:  So far in the NBA, I have to say that, being that so many great players have gotten this award; Carmelo Anthony last year, Amare Stoudemire, Allen Iverson, a lot of great players have gotten this award.  Hopefully that trend can continue and just continue to work hard on my game. 
 Q.  Following up with that, those guys you mentioned have gone on to have really good careers so far.  Are you excited about the prospects of what this night could bring? 
 ANDRE IGUODALA:  Oh, definitely.  I think it's just a confidence booster that when I'm playing out there and I'm playing freely, I'm confident. 
 You know, the sky is the limit for me.  As long as I continue to work on my game every night and just focus in on basketball. 
 Q.  A lot of this game was filled with players that have kind of flown under the radar this season, was this a night for some of you guys to kind of get more of the national spotlight than you've had? 
 ANDRE IGUODALA:  I think so.  I think that's what a lot of guys look forward to, for the spotlight to be on them.  I actually thought Ben Gordon was going to get the MVP.  I was looking forward to him getting it.  That's what I thought coming in.  Just happened that the game went my way. 
 So guys like myself and you see Nate Robinson, Charlie Villanueva did a great job out there tonight.  Dwight Howard is known in this league.  Everyone is just looking to be known as one of next players to be great in this league. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT