NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
June 1, 2019
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Even after Game 1, I know it's just one game, but there obviously wasn't a lot of banter with you guys.  What does this group have inside that allows them to rebound so easily?
ANDRE IGUODALA: I think just try to use our experience, the best lessons are learned through experiences.  Being able to get through, being down previously, bouncing back is something we have gone through.  So hopefully we can use that experience to our advantage again.
Q. Did they surprise you, Game 1 in Toronto?  You guys said you had obviously not seen them a lot.
ANDRE IGUODALA: We have been able to watch them through the other series and realizing they're a team that plays really hard, a team you can definitely have a lot of respect for.  They got some guys that can make plays for them and they were able to do that in Game 1.  So just a few key adjustments and hopefully it turns in our favor.
Q. Yesterday Steve said that the Raptors reminded him of the early years with you guys.  What's different between them and the other teams that have maybe tried to imitate you guys over the last few years?
ANDRE IGUODALA: Well, they just do a good job of just looking for the open play, they hit some singles, drive and kicks, guys looking for the opportunities to try to take advantage of them.  Got some open threes.  Gasol had a few, Danny Green hit a few, Siakam hit a few.  VanVleet has shown what he's capable of.  So just got different guys out there who can play solid winning basketball.  So got to keep an eye on all their guys because everyone's a threat on the court.
Q. We asked Kawhi, has anyone ever trash-talked you and he said no.  Why do you think that is?
ANDRE IGUODALA: I don't know.  I mean, I don't trash talk.  So I mean, even when there is trash talk, I really don't know what's being said.  Just being locked in on the game and it's for some guys, not so much for others.  So I don't get trash-talked much either.
Q. On guarding Kawhi.
ANDRE IGUODALA: You got a special player and he's shown what he's capable of, being able to do damage from the perimeter, getting to the basket, shooting the ball at a high clip right now.  So we always try to say make the game as hard as possible for everybody on the court.  You're not going to stop him, but you just try to make them expend as much energy as possible while he's on the court.
Q. On dealing with injury while trying to guard high level players like Kawhi.
ANDRE IGUODALA: It's always difficult going against top players.  You got to be locked in mentally, physically, it's just part of the game though.  I mean, you've heard it from the history of sports, you just have injuries, you have pains, you just play through it and just try to help the team win.
Q. With all the things that Kawhi can do offensively, with the way you guys blitzed him in Game 1, is his play-making the one area where you guys prefer to test him?
ANDRE IGUODALA: Like I say, you just try to make the game hard for him.  The few times we trapped him, he was able to make the right passes out of the traps.  He found Gasol a few times and they're doing certain things to try to counter that.  So we have a few schemes here and there, turn it on, turn it off.  So for us it's just our back-line defense, being able to rotate, especially when you know you have a special player who can draw two.  They're trying to make the other guys pay and we're trying to rotate out the right way and it's kind of a game of chess.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT