NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
May 29, 2019
Andre Iguodala
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANDRE IGUODALA: We all have expectations of ourselves.  We raise the bar just as high as anyone else does for us.  For us, it's just getting through the regular season, getting through the noise.  There's more and more noise every year, especially with our team and how many eyeballs we draw.  Just keeping a level head and understanding the roller coaster of the season.  Just getting through each phase.  It sounds easy, but there's a lot of mental preparation that goes into it.   
 Q.  What is it about this team that has bred so much success?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Honestly, just pieces fell into the right place at the right time.  It's a true blessing just how things kind of came into place.  You really can't plan for the way things came about for us.  It was just the right time and the right guys at the right time.  The guys being brought up in the right environment for them to succeed and then other guys being in the right place at the right time.  Everything just seemed like it the stars were aligned.   
 Q.  What's it take to come into this environment and get a win in Game 1?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Game 1 is kind of like a feel-out game.  Neither team played at full strength against each other this year and it's a different look for each team, so it's kind of going to be a lot of wild punches thrown and guys trying to figure out where to find their rhythm, their groove.  There's going to be a lot of energy in this building, so just understanding the patience it's going to take.  Just getting through all of that and not letting the moment take too much control of you and just trying to settle in as best as possible.   
 Q.  The fifth NBA Finals for you guys.  Obviously it shows dominance, complete dominance over the NBA.  At this level, do you still see and feel that?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: Well, we always say that we respect the opponent.  Understanding what you're going up against.  There are two teams here and both of them deserve it.  They did the right things, and it's more than just talent -- having the effort, chemistry, camaraderie.  That team, we really respect them.  They put their work in and they're coming out without fear.  We know the preparation that they put in to try to come in and prove everybody wrong.  Everybody is counting them out as if we just win and just go out and the game's over.  But teams really believe in themselves and we have to be ready for the challenge.   
 Q.  From the first championship to this one, do you still have the same passion and drive coming into this first game of the NBA Finals?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I think we try to have a good balance.  Trying to use the adrenaline to your advantage.  The first one, the first two, you're over-excited and you have a little bit of nerves.  But then the more and more you go, you can't get too comfortable.  You have to try to find the right balance to go into Game 1.   
 Q.  How do you slow down Kawhi?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: He's kind of got a different game than anybody.  He's very unique.  His strength, with his quickness, being able to explode to the basket, but also being a threat from the perimeter.  So he's pretty much got it all.  I guess trying to throw him off balance.  Belichick always says, "Try to make guys play with their left hand."  That sounds easier than it actually is.  With him, just making him make tough plays, put him in tough situations.  That's easier said than done too.   
He's more of a quiet guy.  So he doesn't get as much talk about him as he should.  These are situations that he prepares himself for, to let his game do the talking.  We have to be ready for the challenge.   
 Q.  Obviously winning helps, but why do you think this organization has become a free agent destination?  
ANDRE IGUODALA: I don't know if I all the way agree with that.  It's starting to kind of trend against us, where guys are kind of afraid to come because of the expectations and the media challenge of coming here and having to deal with so much.  But we have done a good job of setting the right culture, and the guys who come here really enjoy it.  Once they get here, they realize that there's nothing else like this.  We're going to continue to try to live by our values, keep the culture where we've placed it and try to maintain the success we've had on the court.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT