UBS HONG KONG OPEN
October 25, 2015
Matt Ford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Are you proud of yourself, the way you played across the course of this week?  
MATT FORD: Yeah, very happy.  Obviously left myself a lot to do and yeah, seems to bring out the best in me.  So it's very emotional and haven't spoken to the family yet.  Probably break down again there.   
Yeah, it was a bit of an achievement; obviously second place was just amazing and obviously you start doubting yourself when you start missing cut and not playing great.  Always knew this course suited me.  Just a case of keep going and yeah, extremely proud.   
 Q.  The story of the week, you've been going in the right direction and very calm and composed, at least on the outside throughout those three days.  The back nine with a couple of bogeys; a bit iffy.  
MATT FORD: Yeah, I actually didn't hit that bad a shot into 15.  Short-sided myself.  Left myself a tough up-and-down which I didn't make.  Hit a poor tee shot on 16 and I was struggling there.  Short game has been pretty solid all week but left myself some real testers those two holes so I was always struggling.   
But I knew that 17 was a bit of an easier hole, as such.  I hit a nice tee shot down there and hit a really nice iron but I was actually still 15, 16 feet away.  That was a big putt.   
 Q.  It was a very big putt at the last which cosied up nicely.  
MATT FORD: I'm not sure cosy; three feet, still felt quite long at the end.  I didn't know what the scenario was so just kept going and thinking, didn't know the scenario, whether it's a case of finishing -- just every spot counts.  Gave it my all for every shot and supposedly it's good enough.  I still don't believe it to be honest, so I'll wait for everyone to finish before I really believe it.   
 Q.  At the moment we believe it's 107.  I know we've touched on this across the course of the week but the season started so well and didn't seem like you were going to be in this kind of nervy, precarious position.  
MATT FORD: No, I suppose not.  But first year out here, I kind of never knew what to expect.  Yeah, played good some stuff at the beginning of the year and never seem to get myself into a good position.  But obviously African Open changed that.  I took a lot of confidence from that and I kind of carried that on but never really stepped it up and then obviously you start playing poorly as you always will at some point.  Can hopefully enjoy the next few weeks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT