DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 28, 2015
Matt Ford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MATT FORD:   Anything under par I would have been pretty ecstatic about this morning, so yeah, very happy.

Q.   Presumably it's not a day to really look at the leaderboards but at the same time if you did, you'll find you're amongst the select few at the moment. 
MATT FORD:   Yeah.   Yeah.   Happy with where I am.   Obviously there's a lot of golf to play, and in these conditions you just don't know what's going to happen.   Let alone two days, three days, four days, so much can happen.   So happy with how I played today.   Did pretty much everything that I could.   There was a lot of good, some bad in there as well, but overall we're happy.

Q.   I don't really want to make you sound like a weather forecaster, but tell us about those conditions.   Elaborate, because you had all sorts of everything, didn't you?
MATT FORD:   Yeah, amazing.   I mean on 17, for example, I hit tee shot in the sun and then we're walking up the fairway and the storm comes in.   And luckily enough I wasn't first to play, and actually we were kind of looking for our ball almost, but by the time we looked for the ball, they had played.   My turn, sun was back out again.   So yeah, within probably five minutes there, we've probably had all four seasons almost in that short period of time. 
Yeah, strong winds really‑‑ strong winds came with the rain.   So it was quite strange out there.   But yeah, tricky.

Q.   But aghast, it's what you expect of links golf, isn't it?   Did you relish that kind of challenge?
MATT FORD:   Yeah, I do.   I've played quite a lot of it at home, down in Kent there's a few links down there.   You play quite a bit of links golf when you're an amateur.   So used to that.   And yeah, we're an island, so the weather is going to be a bit changeable, I think.   You just have to deal with whatever comes your way, and sometimes you might get on the wrong side of it; sometimes you might get on the right side of it.   Just keep doing what you're doing really.

Q.   And Royal County Down is a course that you favor?
MATT FORD:   It's probably one of my favorites.   I'm a fan of St. George's down my way, so I would say yeah, these two are probably my favorite courses.   Yeah, I love it here.   It's great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT