DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 18, 2020
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. PAVLYUCHENKOVA/B. Bencic   
1-6, 6-1, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  We want to know how you turned that around after the start.  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, well, as I said on court, even in the first set, it's tennis, sometimes it happens. You go out there and you just don't feel anything which is frustrating because I've been practicing so hard, working. I don't know, nothing seems to be working out for me.   
You know what, I just kept on fighting, still trying to hit every ball, trying to be there. Mentally I was quite positive, just playing point by point. Even though it was 5-0, I thought, Oh, my God, it's embarrassing, so bad.   
I think it helped me going into the second set because I took that mentality, mindset of being positive and fighting, trying to do my thing. I was like, You know what, doesn't matter what the score is, just play. Slowly just started to turn around, I started to find my game.   
 Q.  When you lose the first 19 points, what are you actually thinking? It's not about games, it's getting a point.  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: No, not really. Honestly is wasn't focusing on the score. Sometimes you can play amazing tennis and still lose 6-1. Sometimes the score doesn't really show. It's like the third set, 6-1, I think it was good level from both of us.   
Yeah, it's just probably more like, Okay, c'mon, you can't lose so many points in a row. You got to adjust, you got to tactically maybe try to change something. It's more about this.   
You got to also give her credit. She started, like, really, really good, aggressive. I think it was like 3-0 in five minutes or something. Yeah, doesn't matter what, keep going.   
 Q.  Did it help playing her in Moscow? That was three sets.  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: No, not really. It was absolutely different match. There I won the first set. I started really good. Then she went like a train after, like 6-1, two sets. I thought I was out of gas a little bit by the end of the tournament. I think it was completely different match.   
I tried to, like, forget about that and start over today. It was a new match.   
 Q.  Did you actually do anything different after the first set?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: No, not really. I mean, again, it was just different. I started to put the ball in the court. Probably that helped. I was just being more sharp. As soon as I won one or two points, I was like, Right, okay, this is something I need to keep doing. I was trying to realize why I won it, what did I do right. I was just trying to find that rhythm. I did find it, so yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT