WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2016
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/A. Pavlyuchenkova
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Overall what are your thoughts on that match? How do you think you handled it?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: How do I think I handled it? I think it was a good match overall since the start till the end. I'm a little bit, you know, thinking I have some thoughts now of course after the match, maybe I could have been a little bit more aggressive at those 4‑All, both first and second set. 
But, you know, I thought I had not many chances at all on the return. She was serving amazingly today. There was a bit of breeze out there as well. I thought that was helping her a little bit more. 
Of course, maybe that's the reason I've got a little bit more pressure on my serve at that 4‑All. 

Q. You played her over a long time. What changes do you see in her compared to the Serena you played on tour years ago?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Last time we played was a while ago, maybe a couple years ago. I was different. She was probably different. It was not a Grand Slam. If I remember well, it was Brisbane, final of Brisbane. It was, of course, definitely a good event, but not Grand Slam. 
I think Serena is always on when it's a Grand Slam, of course. Especially grass, I would say one of her favorite surfaces. So she's always on and playing great. 
I thought today she was there since the first points to the last. Me, as well, of course. But, yeah, it was quite close, I would say. 

Q. How much is today a bittersweet feeling for you? 
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, that's unreal actually. I've always been saying that I never like grass, always been quite negative in terms of grass and playing at Wimbledon. 
I think right now I'll change my mind. It's been always one of my favorite Grand Slams, though, very special. 
So it's been five years since my last quarterfinal. It was at the US Open 2011. I've been waiting for this moment for so long, so it's very special right now playing against Serena on Centre Court here. 
Again, I was very nervous today before the match because I didn't want to go out there and just enjoy, I really wanted to win.

Q. What do you think about women's tennis these days? We see a lot of unpredictable results. Seems a lot of room for some surprises like you or your countrywoman. 
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Well, surprise in terms of just the ranking, I would say. I think both me, including Elena, even Dominika, is just about the ranking. All three of us, I think we have really good tennis, good tennis for grass. 
Right now everyone is practicing every day. Everyone is working hard. Everyone has got a good coach. Some of us have, of course, physios and bigger teams. That's quite normal. Everyone is hungry. Everyone wants to beat everyone. 
The times has changed and tennis has changed. Now it's a lot of opportunities for everyone. 

Q. What about Russian tennis? There were nine Russians at the start, two in the quarterfinals. Is it in good health?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Obviously it is. It's not that bad. We've always had a lot of good Russian women tennis players. I think that's great for our country. That's great for us and for me because we push each other. That's also great. 
Yeah, there is a lot of potential. 

Q. Elena, who is in the semifinals, what do you make of her big year? 
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: I've always liked her tennis, to be honest. I think she always had a lot of potential there, but maybe just didn't believe enough in her game. Now she's obviously turning 30, I think. She's grown up. Maybe that's something changed in her mind. 
But, again, I'm happy for her. Maybe she took her opportunity with a good draw, as well. I mean 'good' like she didn't face somebody like Serena, so that's good for her. 

Q. She faces Serena next. What would your advice be for her?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: No advice. I think she's played Serena also couple of times, obviously seen her on TV. Everyone knows about everyone, so there is not really much you can say. 

Q. Sharapova has been described by some players here as thoroughly unlikable. What have your experiences been like with Maria Sharapova, whether that rings true for you?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: We've been always good actually because I've known her for a while in Fed Cup. We've always had actually a lot of laughs in the locker rooms. Even at the normal events, always we were the only two chatting in the locker rooms. So I had no problems with this.

Q. Your thoughts on her ban?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: This I can't comment because I have no clue what's going on there. 

Q. If it ends up being Serena against Angelique in the final again, do you think Serena has a better chance because it's Wimbledon and it's grass?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: It's really tough to say because I think it all depends on Serena. When she's on, it's really tough to beat her. I thought she was quite on today. I felt it. 
When she's not so on, then there is a chance. 
It's really tough to say anything right now because they both have to also play one more match to get to the final. Yeah, and then I don't know what's going to happen. 

Q. Up next for you is Rio. Are you worried at all about Zika?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, I'm aware. 

Q. How do you feel about it? Are you still happy to go? 
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: I was aware that it's more dangerous for pregnant women, so... I haven't really thought about it or discussed this at all with anybody, like going into details. All I know is that I'm going and I'm looking forward to go and I'm excited to go and finally participate in Olympics, as I didn't unfortunately make it to London four years ago. Being top 30, I still didn't make it. 
That's exciting for me. Of course, I'll go through those details before going to Rio. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT