BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 5, 2013
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/A. Pavlyuchenkova
  6‑1, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   A little bit hard on yourself at the end when you said when you play Serena she makes you feel like you don't know how to play tennis.   Was that a bit hard?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   No, it's not hard, it's true.   No, seriously, when I played her four times ‑ this was my fourth time ‑ and every time I play against her I was going on the court being confident, and feeling well, like today. 
I started the match pretty well, I think, but when she's on fire, there is not much‑‑ well, I feel like there is not much I can do.   Still I was hoping to turn the match around.   Until the end I was fighting, like every point. 
But this was true what I said.   It's not tough.   I mean, she's a great player and she deserves to win, I guess. 

Q.   You've seen her work closely in Mauritius recently. 
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Yeah.

Q.   What is it she does that's so different to everyone else?   How do you think she can play as she does?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   I don't think it's only preparation.   I think she's such an experienced player as well.   She's much more experienced than me.   She's played thousand of finals, you know.   She so self‑confident as well.   I think that's what help her.   And such a great serve and return.
And her power, like she has got this power that not so many girls has it, so it's quite different.
So I think that's the main quality she has. 

Q.   Do you think when she's playing like that there is anyone on the women's tour that can beat her, or is she a level above when she's playing that well?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Well, I don't think I'm the one to say who can beat her, who cannot beat her.   I don't know.   I'm not the one to judge. 
But all I know is that she is playing amazing.   She hasn't lost a match since August or something.   Obviously nobody can stop her for the moment.
I was trying to do it though tonight, but didn't work out.   (Smiling.)   She is good for the moment.   Let's see what's going to happen after.

Q.   You said you started well.   What happened at 3‑2?   Did she step up another gear?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Yeah, well, she put so much pressure since the start, so I felt like I had to go for winners or aces or these amazing like serves, you know.
As long as I slowed down a little she was there.   She was returning, making winners, serving aces, so you cannot stop.   You have to play your best level every point, which is quite tough to keep it.
So then at 3‑2 I didn't serve aces, I didn't serve as well, and then she was there. 

Q.   When your coach came on after the first set, what did you talk about?   What did he tell you to try and do or focus on?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   I don't remember.   (Smiling.)   I wasn't really listening to him. 
Well, he said definitely be more aggressive and show her that you are there, that I'm ready, you know.   Not like just being on the court physically, but trying to do something as well. 
So trying to move her, of course, and putting more first serves in and trying to mix the serve as well.
Then again, it's not as easy as it looks.

Q.   It's hard to hang in a point with her and wait for her to make a mistake because she gets every ball back, and she gets every ball back with interest, yeah?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Yeah.   You feel like if you're not going to make this good serve then you receive a return winner.   So this kind of pressure.
But then, yeah, your serve percentage goes down right away, I guess.

Q.   Do you feel a little bit deflated now?   Do you feel encouraged too?   You got to a final in the first tournament of the year. 
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   No, I mean, I'm really happy with the final, of course.   I mean, that couldn't be better to start like this the year before Australian Open; great preparation.
I was totally focused on the match today.   I wasn't thinking it was final or second round or Serena.   I was thinking about myself and trying to win the final.

Q.   Serena did have a little bit of a dry spell, and then she joined Patrick after the French Open.   What do you think in that sort of relationship has changed her mentality or approach to the game and made her start winning again?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Well, I have no idea what change her.   Like I can't read her mind or anything.   I don't know.   I think it's better if you ask her about this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT