BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 3, 2013
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. PAVLYUCHENKOVA/A. Kerber
  7‑6, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   So two very good wins in a row for you.   She's a good defensive player, and you hung in there even though it was a little up and down towards the end, no?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Yeah, I'm definitely really happy.   I didn't expect it's going to come so fast after my tough pre‑season, first tournament of the year and I would go so far and beat such a great players.  
But I'm really, really happy that I could manage to pull this match through.   She is definitely a great fighter and she defends a lot, so I had to be aggressive today the whole match.  
   
 Q.   So the tiebreaker was pretty good, too.   No unforced errors.   I think you hit five winners and she was trying to rally, but it seemed like you were the calmer player out there.   
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Yeah, I didn't expect like to be at 6‑0, you know, and then serving for the match.   It was too easy.   I didn't understand what was going on after like two hours of battling there on the court.   
Anyway, I said to myself when was 5‑4 down or 6‑5 down, I said, No way I'm going to lose this set.   I have to win it in the tiebreaker.   
So that's how I started my tiebreaker in the second set.  
   
 Q.   In tight match which could have gone either way, what do you tell yourself to be able to stay mentally calm under that sort of pressure?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Well, I'm definitely working on my mental as well because I'm such an emotional person.   In the past it was a lot of the matches lost because of, I guess, my emotions.   I get really like upset or excited.   Every time it's like this.  
So I'm trying to stay more calm and positive and just focus on my things what I have to do on the court and tactics as well, so that helps.   
   
 Q.   Do you think she might have been a bit down after that two and a half hour match she had yesterday?   Do you think her recovery hadn't been enough?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Well, definitely it's not easy to play the next day after the match she had yesterday.   I don't know how she felt, but probably for me I think of course it would be not as easy.  
But I actually watched her match yesterday, and I thought she increased her level today and I thought she was playing a bit better.   Well, actually I didn't feel that she was really tired and playing not well.   I thought she was playing good today.  
Anyway, I was trying to focus more on myself rather than thinking about her.  
   
 Q.   So you had a very difficult year last year.   A lot of downs, a few ups.   I know you went back to Mouratoglou.   What did you work on in the off‑season?   Looks like your fitness is better; you were calmer.   What do you tell yourself to do?   Just talk about that a little bit.   
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Well, yeah, last year was really tough year for me.   It was up and down, really annoying.   
I had a nice rest and then I started over, you know, like clean sheet.   I was working on everything, and then little by little I just came here, first tournament of the year, and I was enjoying every match and then just fighting on the court and see how it goes.  
I'm in the semis right now so I'm happy with this.  
   
 Q.   So you're working with Hingis at Patrick's a little bit?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Patrick is mostly with Serena.   I guess he's communicating with me a bit.   He knows me so well because he was working with me since I was 15 or 16.   That helps.  
Yes, Martina Hingis was also hitting with me.   Were playing some matches and she was giving some advices.   That was really nice.  
   
 Q.   Did she say anything that was particularly helpful to you?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Yeah, definitely, because you know, I think the fact that she's a woman as well, and I guess ‑‑ well, I guess‑‑ I think women and men mentality is a bit different, especially on the court as well.  
So it was interesting for me to hear how she felt during the matches as well, what she was going through.   So we were talking about this a bit as well during pre‑season.   
It's very interesting talking to her as well.   She very passionate and she loves tennis.  
   
 Q.   I think you broke into the top 50 in 2008; you're 36 now.   What do you think you need to do to get in the top 25?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Keep playing like this and playing more semifinals of big tournaments, I guess.  
I actually wasn't thinking about the my ranking at the moment.   During pre‑season I was like, Doesn't matter.   I just have to play well and improve my game.   
Last year I was seeded almost on every tournament and my results were not there, my game wasn't there.   So it doesn't really help.   It's just a number, I guess.   
As long as you're playing well and work hard, then the ranking is following.  
   
 Q.   Did you hit at all with Serena or get to know her a little bit?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Yeah, we actually were singing together.  
   
 Q.   Singing?   
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Yeah, in karaoke.   I haven't had a chance to hit with her, but I had a chance to sing with her.  
   
 Q.   What did you sing?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   We sing‑‑ I don't remember exactly.   Few songs that also Martina was there.   You know, group singing.  
   
 Q.   So was it good or not so good?   
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Yeah, we both good, I think.   Yeah, she loves karaoke and I love karaoke.   I've been singing since I was little.   I'm not as good but I like to sing and I'm trying to do it well.  
But they're much older with Martina so they sing songs of '90s that I don't really know that well.   Me, I'm more like in, you know, 2011, 2012 songs.   
   
 Q.   So the coach Bremond, did you work with him before at Patrick's, or is this new for you?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   I actually started working with him in September when I just got into academy.   We were in Asia to go, so it was easier to start pre‑season after working a bit in September.  
   
 Q.   Look ahead to the semis.   Probably not the opponent you expected tomorrow.   
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   What do I expect tomorrow?   
   
 Q.   No.   Probably not who you expect to play.   How do you approach it?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA:   Well, I'm ready to play any time.   Definitely it's going to be tougher and tougher now, so I'm just ready to try to do my best again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT