BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2009
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. PAVLYUCHENKOVA/J. Jankovic
  6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. So what do you think made the difference in this match? Were you playing really well, or was she just playing really poorly?  
 ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Well, I think the match was very good, I mean, considering the level. But I didn't really look at her. I didn't really think about what she's doing. I just tried to focus on my game. I just tried to play every point, try not to be focused on the score. And just that's it.   
 I just tried to be very aggressive, and I think maybe she doesn't know me that well so she didn't expect the way I was playing since I was quite aggressive since the beginning.   
 So then after she -- I saw she had some troubles on the service ball, so, well, I just tried to push her all the time. I think that was the key.  
 I think she's a very good player and it was a very tough match for me today.   
  
  Q. I read that you trained in France; is that right? Was there some particular reason for that? You're Russian.   
 ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Well, some people already asked me this question. Most of the Russians, or a lot of players, they go to USA or somewhere to Spain, and me, France, which is quite original and unusual for the people to know.   
 But I've been practicing there since more than one year, so I got really used to it and I really like it, as I'm there. So I have very good relations there with everyone, and especially with my coach.   
 I don't know. I really feel like at home there, and I spend a lot of time there, more than in Russia. So it's very comfortable.   
  
  Q. When you come into a match like this, are you nervous or were you excited? What was your mindset coming into tonight?  
 ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Well, before -- definitely, I was a little bit nervous because I was also young and just coming on tour. It was something new for me, and I didn't know the players before. They were like all stars for me, so it was a little bit hard for me to play.   
 Especially today I went on court, and I believed I could win. I know she's very good player. Everybody is very good. I think everyone has practiced hard, so I just -- I really -- I was focused and I knew I could do it, so I was quite excited. More than nervous. I was just enjoying playing.   
  
  Q. Do you know who you're playing next?  
 ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Knapp from Italy.   
  
  Q. Have you played her before?  
 ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: No, but I've seen her in juniors before, as I was playing the much older girls. So she was one of the last year, so I have seen her a little bit. I've never played her.  
  
  Q. You seem very calm. Are you excited about your win today?   
 ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, sure. I'm excited. I'm very happy. But I don't know, maybe I'm tired, that's why. But of course I'm happy.   
 But as I said before, I'm actually very happy when I win any matches. Doesn't matter actually who I beat, because I like to win matches. And as long as you win, you're happy.   
 But also, especially today, of course, I'm very happy, but I tried not to be very overexcited, because after I still have to continue in this tournament. I just want to continue to keep playing in the same way.  
  
  Q. Have you called a lot of people yet, or have a lot of people called you?  
 ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Didn't call, but texting quite a lot of people from France and my agent. And also it's quite difficult with the time, because in Europe, it's much later. It's almost 5:00 a.m. in Paris.   
 But some of the people, they were very excited. They're not sleeping, so I text a lot already. So I will later. I will wake up everyone. (laughter.)  
  
  Q. I've read that you've won a few junior Grand Slams. Do you have any thoughts on the future of winning the Grand Slams on the WTA Tour?  
 ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, sure, I wish I could. And when I was playing in juniors, and I think -- I don't remember exactly, but one of the press conference I said that I wish to do the same in the pros as the did the juniors.   
 I finished No. 1 and I won quite a lot of tournaments, and I said I wish I could do it. I'm still thinking about it, so I still believe in it and I work for it.  
  
  Q. For this year?   
 ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Well, I think it's maybe too tough. But anyway, you never know. Impossible is nothing, so I will do my best.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT