US OPEN
September 10, 2006
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q. How does it feel to win the whole thing, apart from doubles?  ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Don't know. I cannot understand now everything well. Like at the Australian Open.  But anyway, I really happy, and I think I expected that maybe some day. But when during the match, I couldn't believe that I will have won.  But I don't know. I just kept fighting, and I will done it. I don't know. Just really, really glad.   Q. How tired were you before the match, and how tired were you afterwards?  ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Uhm, I think like my mentally and physically, I was pretty fresh, but I don't know. I really felt tired in my legs, both of them, and I couldn't move well today. So is the worst parts of the game today. So I couldn't do it like I did every day.  So, uhm, I don't know. After the match I was so tired, so I cannot even lift my leg up. I couldn't play doubles well, so I really disappointed about that.  But that's tennis, so...  Q. It was a long match. You must have been also hard to keep your energy up after winning? ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Uh hmm. After the match, I couldn't concentrate for my doubles because I was excited that I won the Grand Slam, you know. It's really difficult to focus and concentrate on the doubles.  But, uhm, anyway I will keep fighting on doubles, and I try to do my best, and Sharon was fighting, too. She played well. Like just it's okay. I like it a little bit.  Q. But a good day, as well.  ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah.  Q. It didn't help having your thigh strapped after the first game of the second set?  ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Doubles?   Q. No, in the singles, sorry. In the singles.  ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: No, yeah, I lost first set and I was upset, because in the first game I was up like 2 Love, then in the game, something. So I was upset that I couldn't win that first set.  So then I said it's like a final, the last match, and this tournament, so I can't just play bad and just give her this match. So I try to keep fighting, and, I don't know, just played every point. It was so difficult. She played really great tennis. She moved me. I don't know. I played her before so I think she knows my game a little bit.  She played that game that I cannot really I cannot like, or I don't like so, you know...  Q. But at the end of the match, the two of you met at the net and you hugged. I thought that was very nice. Do you know each other well? ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, pretty well. She's a really nice girl. I like her like a person. We always was talking on this tournament, congratulated every time each other.  I actually didn't think that we will be in the finals playing against each other. She really nice girl. She told me that it was great match, thanks for the game. So, you know, it's really good for her, and it's really nice that she's like that.   Q. You will probably end the year as World No. 1 now because of winning this title. Does that mean something to you?  ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: I wanted to continue be the No. 1 in the world. It wasn't like a dream, but anyway I really wanted this. I really happy. You know, I think it's the main thing for me that I won this tournament. Even if I won't be like a No. 1 in the world, anyway I won the Grand Slam, and I really wanted to win because it's one of my favorite tournaments.  It's the last Grand Slam of this year, so I really happy. I don't know.   Q. It's a nice bonus, of course.  ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Uh hmm.   Q. It takes, I guess, the pressure off, you've probably done that now?  ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Uh hmm. I think I won't put pressure on me. I think it will be okay. I don't think about this. I just, you know it's no pressure, I think. Just if you play well and the main thing for me, that I have to be confident in myself. So if I will be confident in myself, it will be everything is okay.   Q. How much of a help was it having so many friends and family members cheering you on today?  ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Well, that's great because at the Australian Open it was too far so everybody couldn't come there.  You know, it's really great that my family is here and they saw, like, I won this title. It's really nice 'cause at the Australian Open, my father was not there. And just by phone, you cannot explain your emotions and everything by phone. I'm really happy that I could make the present for them. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT