AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2020
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. PAVLYUCHENKOVA/A. Kerber   
6-7, 7-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Impressive offensive performance. 71 winners.  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: 71 winners?   
 Q.  Yes. Around 35-ish unforced errors. Big gap. What do you think went so well for you throughout this tournament to make the quarters?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: I think my attitude, my fights and spirit. I was there pretty much every point. I mean, I tried to.   
That always, I think, pays off or at least that gives you some sort of confidence, as well. Sometimes there were some moments or matches where I didn't feel my best or I didn't play my best, but I still was there.   
I knew that today I had to stay aggressive against Angelique. Anyway, that's how I usually play. It was tricky. I think it was very high-level match from both of us.   
I didn't expect how aggressive she was, as well. She was going for her shots. It was a tough match. But I'm happy I pulled it through.   
 Q.  When you talk about your attitude, what has been the key there? What do you mean? Being positive, focused?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Focused, of course. Disciplined. Just fighting. Doing your job pretty much, doing what you have to do. Sometimes before something I would go crazy and I would lose myself just because, like, you would just -- I don't know.   
You would just not do what you have to do. Normally you prepare the match, you discuss with your coach. I would go and I would just go crazy. I will start doing something. He will be like, Well, hello. Where are you? You're just not here any more.   
So I think just that.   
 Q.  Is it something you and Sam have been discussing a lot leading up to this event?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, for sure. We've been working on that. But also I want to change that myself, of course. Of course, we work on everything. We do a lot of work. I've been working so hard during the off-season, putting a lot of work in off the court and on court.   
But I think I just find it more fun now. I like it. Like, I like these tough matches. I'm enjoying it. Before I think my game was always there, and I could come up with a lot of winners before, too. It's not enough. It's not enough just to play.   
Sometimes win is the win. You have to win somehow, find a way. I enjoy that sometimes, too. How many times you're not going to play your best tennis every match obviously. Sometimes something is off. You just feel more tired or whatever. That's the part of the game.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you're playing your best tennis here?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: To be honest, let me be humble here. I'm not going to say, I'm not playing my best tennis, not at all.   
I feel like I play good, of course, good tennis. But I still feel like I can improve a lot of things. I put it this way. That gives me also a lot of positive things. During the match, I guess I got to work harder, I got to improve this. It gives me more confidence or belief that there is still room for improvement, which is always good.   
 Q.  Talk about playing Muguruza, the challenge.  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: I don't know what to expect because it's going to be new day and new match. Of course, I know how she plays and I know her. Very good player, very aggressive player.   
But I don't know what to say. The deeper you go in the tournament, the tougher it gets, the more champions you play. I got to be there obviously playing my best tennis and be ready since the first points. Otherwise there is no secret. Nothing much to say. Just a lot of good players, you got to beat them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT