AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2017
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. WILLIAMS/A. Pavlyuchenkova   
6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you think that match kind of turned for you?  It seemed like you were able to break her serve fairly easily, but it was difficult to hold onto those advantages.  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, was a little bit on and off, the match.  I think we both were breaking each other.  It just felt like we were both returning better maybe today.  Both of us were aggressive on the returns.   
I just think I wasn't fresh enough to really, like, go for the serves.  I knew that I had to serve good because she's very aggressive on the baseline and return.  I was kind of put a bit of pressure on myself on the serve.  That's why the percentage went low.   
 Q.  Was there anything she did out there that surprised you?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: It was kind of surprising for me how in great form she is now.  Like, she's playing good, moving well, very solid on the baseline, very aggressive.  Of course, she's serving well.  That's a good job from her.   
She just also wasn't giving me much of a rhythm because she was either making, like, winners or easy mistakes kind of.  So that was not easy for me.   
 Q.  You said before you had a tendency in the past to maybe beat yourself up over losses, and that maybe took you out of months of tournament play.  As you sit there now, is this a tough loss for you, or do you walk away from Melbourne Park feeling like things are on track?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: So it's 50/50 'cause first of all, of course I'm very disappointed I lost today.  I actually thought I had a lot of chances today.  I didn't take a lot of chances in the first set, and also tiebreaker in the second.  That kind of disappointing.   
At the same time definitely I've had a great week, an amazing start to the season.  Also in Sydney.  So for the first time I did quarters here.  I have to take it as a very nice way to start the season, try to improve and do much better in the next tournaments.   
 Q.  Were there balls coming back that surprised you?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Well, if she hits the ball well, if she feels good, it's really fast ball coming at you.  So definitely I was a little late sometimes.   
Again, a little disappointed with the way I started the match.  I think I wasn't, like, hundred percent on every shot since the start.  I was a bit sluggish sometimes or slow.  At times I was waiting for her mistakes, where I should have been more aggressive, going for it, as in previous matches.  That's the only thing I disappointed about.  I wasn't very energized today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT