ROGERS CUP
July 29, 2016
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
M. KEYS/A. Pavlyuchenkova   
7-6, 1-6, 6-0   
An interview with:   
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What went wrong in the third set?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: In the third, well, she stepped it up, of course.  I expected that.  Yeah, to be honest, I was really tired.  I think it was just that in the third.  I had really tough matches since the first round.  Yeah, felt like I didn't have much left for the third unfortunately.   
She stepped it up.  She was hitting full power every ball, serving well, so yeah.   
 Q.  What happened with your service?  You had eight double-faults.  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, well double-faults, I think I had like five yesterday.  It's not really a big deal.  Everyone is doing double-faults here because the balls are flying a little.  I was going a bit more for my second serve, especially today against Madison, she's returning aggressive and good.   
Yeah, again, I was really tired, so that was one of the reasons why I couldn't really serve at my best today.   
 Q.  Are you a little bit sad not going to the semifinals again?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Of course, I'm sad.  You're never happy when you lose.  I hate to lose.  Even though I still give myself credit after winning these good three matches, making my first quarterfinal here in Montréal.  I still wanted to do better and still wanted to win today of course.   
But it's tennis.  She was better in the third today, so I have to give her credit.   
 Q.  Do you feel there's something that's wrong with you that you won't be able to go in the semifinal this year?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: No, nothing wrong.  We had a good match, tough match.  She was better in the end.  Nothing wrong with me, I think.   
 Q.  The speed on Madison's serve, she was serving over 200 sometimes.  That's a hell of a serve in the women's game.  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, sometimes I was thinking, Is it me or the ball is really too fast?  It's maybe just my feeling.  Then I look up at the screen and there is 204.  I'm like, Yeah, okay, that's okay then.   
It's really, really fast.  I think also the surface here and also the Wilson balls, it's, like, really flying a little.  It's a bit faster than usual.   
But I expected that.  We've practiced couple of times.  We practiced with her on grass.  It's even faster there, so I expected that.  Yeah, she's hitting the ball really fast.   
 Q.  What are the positive things you can take out of this tournament and bring into the next couple weeks?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, you know, I have to separate my emotions right now after losing this match, and still try to find positive things.  Of course, there are lot of positive things.   
Even today, I mean, I know I was serving twice for the set, but still losing that set 7-6, being able to come back and win the second 6-1, yeah, it's still very positive.   
Yeah, there is clear picture for me, a lot of big room for improvement and everything.  That's also positive.   
 Q.  What are the next couple of days for you?  Are you going to stay in Montréal?  
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yes, actually one day.  I already had a flight on Sunday to Rio.  That's also something I'm looking forward to.  It's going to be my first Olympics.  Really looking forward to it and very excited.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT