ROGERS CUP
July 28, 2016
Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. PAVLYUCHENKOVA/A. Radwanska
6-4, 6-7, 6-1
An interview with:
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How does that win feel?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: It feels great, amazing.  Especially losing that second set, being match point up - two actually.  But, yeah, so proud the way I came back and pulled the third set through.
Q. You talked at Wimbledon about a lot of the work you've been putting in with Dieter.  Is there another example of a match that your fitness, focus, all came together to get you the win?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Yeah, definitely a lot of work been put, and all together I think now it's, like, coming in one big thing.  So I'm really pleased to see that it's paying off a little bit on court.
But also I think I'm mentally stronger.  You know, like also this match showed also the way how I mentally stayed tough still in the third set after that second one.
She's very tough opponent.  She's fighting till the last point.  Yeah, I'm just really happy with my first quarterfinals here, as well.
Q. You're the third Russian to make it to the quarterfinals today.  Pretty good day for your country.  Does it give you any extra motivation?  It's not the first time.
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Exactly.  I was about to say it's not like it's normal for us, but Russian tennis been always very strong.  We always had, in the past, so many Grand Slam champions.  We always had this going on, always tough field.
Yeah, of course, now it's great to see that we have Daria, who is very young and upcoming player as well.  She's doing great so far this year.  Also make her debut in Olympics this year because of these good results, as well, so it's great to see this as well.
Q. After the second set, what did you actually do to get yourself back on track?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: I was so happy with the way I just continued.  Also Dieter came on court and we just agreed that I was doing everything right.  It was just about few points.
She actually stayed consistent throughout the whole match.  Credit to her coming back being down match points.  But I was doing everything right.  So I just stick to my plan in the third, and I just thought, Okay, I need to actually bring my energy level a bit up more.
I just stayed calm.  I believed till the end, I still can win this match.  I'm just happy with this, as well.
Q. In your point of view, what is the most difficult part of getting a great result at Wimbledon and following it up afterwards?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: I don't know if there is some connection, sort of, Wimbledon and this event.
But definitely Wimbledon gave me more confidence in me and in my tennis, in my game.  Yeah, I just came back after Wimbledon to practice mode, came back and was really practicing hard, working hard for this event.
Yeah, just kept on fighting.  Like the first round, I almost lost the match.  I won it from match point down.  Yeah, so then I build it up sort of like during the tournament.
Q. I assume you're pretty motivated right now.  Has there been another time in your career you have been this motivated?  Is this the most motivated you feel you've felt?
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: It's one of the most motivated times right now maybe.  Been playing tennis for a while.  I had some ups and downs, of course, like everyone else.
Yeah, I haven't felt that motivated for a while, I would say.
Q. I heard on the court, they were talking in French to you.
ANASTASIA PAVLYUCHENKOVA: Because I practiced in Mouratoglou Academy.  I had some French coaches.  That's why I picked it up.  But never learned it at school.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT