BIG TEN CONFERENCE MEN'S HOCKEY CHAMPIONSHIP
March 17, 2017
Erik Autio
Guy Gadowsky
Peyton Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Penn State - 4, Minnesota - 3, 2OT   
THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Penn State, head coach Guy Gadowsky, Peyton Jones and Erik Autio.   
Coach, an opening statement.   
GUY GADOWSKY: Extremely happy.  A tremendous hockey game to watch.  Obviously a great game to win.  I thought everybody played great, really hard.   
Very, very happy to be playing here tomorrow.  It was a big win for the program, not only for the Big Ten, but I think it probably solidified going into the NCAA tournament.  So for us, it's a first.  It's a big night.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for our students.   
 Q.  For either player.  Has this been exciting for you guys that had signed on to a relatively new program, start crossing off all these firsts along the way, getting in the NCAA tournament now?  
ERIK AUTIO: Absolutely, yeah.  It's always cool to try to get things off the checklist.  We know this was one of those things.  We're excited to play in that championship game tomorrow.   
PEYTON JONES: A lot of schools have a lot of history.  This hockey program has been around not very long.  All the things that we're accomplishing right now is history for the school.  First time it's been done.  It's pretty exciting for us.   
 Q.  You have played now eight periods in two days.  How do you turn around and play another full game tomorrow?  
PEYTON JONES: Go home, eat, get a lot of rest.  Wake up tomorrow, get the body going.  Get to the rink and keep it going.  Just a quick turnaround here.   
 Q.  Erik, how does a guy from Finland hear about the Penn State program?  What was your mindset in your decision to come to Happy Valley?  
ERIK AUTIO: I started looking into playing college hockey when I was in high school.  I got an opportunity to visit at Penn State.  It's just an unbelievable place, unbelievable hockey program, great coaches.   
 Q.  Erik, talk about the winning goal.  What did you see?  Denis bringing the puck in?  
ERIK AUTIO: I saw Denis had the puck.  That's when you go to the net.  He's pretty good with the puck and has great vision.  He made an unbelievable play.  I just put it in.   
 Q.  Peyton, the glove save you made.  What did you see on that play?  
PEYTON JONES: I love Carey Price and Braden Holtby.  I watch them all the time.  They make those fancy glove saves.   
I went over, read and reacted to the play.  Made a nice save, so...   
THE MODERATOR: You guys can head back to the room.   
We'll take questions for coach.   
 Q.  Coach, you worked wonders down at Princeton, getting them into the NCAAs.  You had a reputation of bringing in kids from western Canada, Alberta.  Now it seems like you've expanded your horizons a little bit:  Finland, two Russian freshmen.  Talk about expanding your horizons on the recruiting trail.  
GUY GADOWSKY: We try to get the best student-athletes anywhere.  Penn State is a tremendous, world-class university with great brand name that people know about, whether it's in Russia or Finland or here.   
The university has a strong reputation as it is.  It makes it a lot easier.   
 Q.  Anyone from your staff make a trip over to Mother Russia?  
GUY GADOWSKY: No, not yet.  Not yet.   
 Q.  What are you expecting to see different out of Wisconsin than the last time?  
GUY GADOWSKY: I'm sorry?   
 Q.  Than the last time you faced Wisconsin.  
GUY GADOWSKY: Probably not a lot.  They were very good the last time that we faced them.  Watched the game today.  They're very good again.   
I don't expect a lot different, other than another great game.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.  We'll see you tomorrow.   
GUY GADOWSKY: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT