BIG TEN CONFERENCE MEN'S HOCKEY CHAMPIONSHIP
March 16, 2017
Guy Gadowsky
David Goodwin
Peyton Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Penn State - 4, Michigan - 1.   
GUY GADOWSKY: You know, just happy to be moving on.  I thought the guys played really hard.  I thought we had some great blocks, specifically by Trevor Hamilton, and really the strong defensive play.  I think Ricky DeRosa, James Robinson led the way in that regard, and just happy to be moving on.   
 Q.  Having just played them and getting swept in their building, what was the difference between Saturday and tonight?  
DAVID GOODWIN: Yeah, just last weekend we had a rough weekend against them, but I think everyone was just really excited to play them on neutral ice.  And everyone kind of had more of a killer instinct tonight, and we're just thankful we came out with the result that we got.   
 Q.  David, your goal late in the first made it 3-0.  How confident were you guys coming out of that first period as far as the outcome against Michigan?  
DAVID GOODWIN: Yeah, that was definitely the start we wanted.  We felt we took the pedal off the metal a little bit in the second, but after a good first period it put us in a good spot to be successful throughout the game.   
 Q.  Peyton, you seemed to be seeing the puck pretty well tonight.  Was there any difference between tonight and last series?  
PEYTON JONES: I mean, just kind of similar, defenseman, forwards, getting guys out from in front of the net, letting me see the puck.  So it's them doing a good job, allowing me to see the puck.   
 Q.  The last year obviously against Michigan you guys unfortunately lost every single game, and this year you won half of them.  And now in the Big Ten tournament, playing against two completely different teams.  What was your mindset heading into this game and just comparing the two different teams?  
DAVID GOODWIN: Yeah, you know, that was unfortunately in the back of our mind, our record against Michigan last year specifically in the Big Ten tournament.  I don't remember the exact score.  I think it was 7-2 or something.  Like I said, it just kind of gave us a little bit more energy, passion, grit to, I guess, redeem ourselves for last year's performance against Michigan.  But you're right, it's two completely different teams, and in a way I just think that's college hockey.   
 Q.  After that 3-0 going into the second period, what was the message to your guys with as big a lead as you had?  
GUY GADOWSKY: The message was try to keep doing what we're doing and stay the same.  Unfortunately, for us Michigan came out a lot stronger and took a few chances that paid off and were able to generate a lot more shots.  But like David said, I thought we maybe faltered a little bit in the second but put ourselves -- because of what we did in the first, we put ourselves in a good spot and played a decent third.   
 Q.  Any idea if you're going to have Andrew Sturtz back tomorrow night?  
GUY GADOWSKY: That's above my pay grade.  I'm going to find out later on.   
 Q.  What was it like to compete against Coach Berenson these past few years in the Big Ten?  
GUY GADOWSKY: Phenomenal.  I actually had the opportunity to -- I started college coaching in the CCHA in Alaska and had the opportunity to compete against him.   
He's a legend in hockey.  He's a legend in college hockey.  He's a legend in NHL.  He's such a fine man, and he's so gracious off the ice, but I'll tell you what, on the ice, he's an incredible competitor.  To be able to compete against him any time, it's an honor, it's a privilege.  It always means a lot to me.   
 Q.  When you went to the handshakes, looked like Coach Berenson stood with you for an extra long time.  Can you characterize the nature of that conversation?  
GUY GADOWSKY: Did you ask if he commented on -- that was just for him.  Look, very gracious, sort of along the same lines as the question.  He's always been -- like I said, he's an incredibly tough competitor, and he wants to beat you up really badly on the ice.  But off the ice he's such a great man and such a kind person.  It was just -- yeah, it was along those lines.   
 Q.  Coaching in a building like this, the Joe Louis Arena, with as much history as it has a building for hockey, what was this win for you in this final season, what does that mean to you?  
GUY GADOWSKY: I think it means a little more, but I think that's not -- we're not thinking about that right now.  I think depending on how the rest of the weekend goes, it's something we're going to look back on, but right now, I mean, I don't care if we're playing on the moon.  We just want to win.   
So I know that's not a great answer towards it, but I think after the experience we'll maybe reflect and it would mean quite a bit more, but right now we're just really happy to get a win.   
 Q.  You're playing Minnesota tomorrow; unfortunately for you guys you lost the four times that you played.  What do you have to do different, or is there one single thing you can single out that you have to improve on that beat them?  
GUY GADOWSKY: Well, the most recent experiences were at our home rink, and we certainly -- we didn't match up well against them at Minnesota.  We didn't play our best.  They played very well, and it wasn't close.   
I'd like to think we learned something from that, but really it was -- the games in Blue Ice Arena, specifically the last game that we played a great game and ended up losing in the end.  And to be honest with you, it was a systematic -- it was my fault.  It wasn't the players or anything they did.  We learned a lot through that.  We lost a face-off with seven seconds to go and they tied it up and then we lost in overtime.   
So I can tell you as a coaching staff and personally we learned a lot from it.  I can tell you that the guys are an excellent team, absolutely, for sure.  But I think at that time in the locker room, it was one of, boy, I'd like to try this again, so that's really the mentality.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT