NCAA MEN'S 2ND & 3RD ROUNDS: OMAHA
March 17, 2012
Anthony Evans
Kyle O'Quinn
Pendarvis Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Norfolk State is with us, on behalf of the team, Kyle will open up with a statement. 
KYLE O'QUINN:   It's a great day to be a Spartan, historic event at our school, great to have the student body behind us, it was a great win last night. 

Q.   Kyle, just wanted to ask you, what has it been like the last 24 hours since you guys won that, what's been going on with the team and have you picked up a thousand new Twitter followers? 
KYLE O'QUINN:   I picked up 2100 Twitter followers yesterday, before dinner and my teammates got tired of me giving them an update.   We thought it was funny.   It's been great.   Once in a lifetime feeling, winning has never brought to which joy to your team, your family, to a player, this is big, a lot of congratulations, just knowing with that feeling you did something good. 

Q.   Can you talk about going up against the history books here, 15 seed, going up against a two‑time national champion but talk about the chance to play well and make history. 
PENDARVIS WILLIAMS:   It feels great we started out making history by winning our first MEAC championship, and then getting to the NCAA Tournament, it feels great. 
KYLE O'QUINN:   It feels great.   A lot of people don't get the chance and I think we have worked hard to be in this position but at the same time we're going to go in as if we want to go out on top like we did last night. 

Q.   Kyle, you talk about when you went out for basketball, I guess it was your junior year in high school, how bad were you? 
KYLE O'QUINN:   I was pretty bad.   I mean, I wasn't that bad but I lacked a lot of things that other kids had I lacked experience, I lacked getting discipline from coaches.   It was different, only my parents ever told me what to do so to listen to a coach, and actually know he was on my side, that he wouldn't tell me nothing to hurt me, but it sounds so complex, and I grasped everything, I was a sponge to the game and everything somebody taught me from how to tie my shoes I took it in. 

Q.   Kyle, I wanted to ask you, you touched on it a little bit last night, that trip to the Virgin Islands that you guys went on.   You beat some good teams and then you played Marquette real close, almost beat them in the finals.   I was wondering how much confidence that gave you guys and from a team chemistry standpoint, how a trip like that brought you guys together and propelled you guys together to where you are now. 
KYLE O'QUINN:   It was early on in the season and it was big.   It trickled down from the beginning of the season to the end which we are at now.   Went into those games if we lose we lose but let's win so we won a couple of games and got confidence.   It would have been tough going into TCU and playin' em, offer going to Drexel and playing them but on a neutral site, that's how we looked at it.   It showed last night. 

Q.   Offensively your starters scored last night, no bench point, how concerning is fatigue going into a game where Florida was able to get more rest, did have a comfortable lead? 
PENDARVIS WILLIAMS:   Well, I would say usually our bench, they carried us all year as well as the starters, but it was good to come out with a win even though our bench didn't help.   They were key all year.   We just had to do what we had to do to get the win and we're just happy and we're going to get ice bath and rest up so we can be ready for Florida tomorrow. 
KYLE O'QUINN:   Us starters, we didn't notice that we were the only ones that scored but it's want like they put us into a position to score, anyone, 1 through 15 can get it done, so that goes to show that we have more to offer, and we feel that 1 through 15 can put the ball in the hole and the starters were the only once that can put it in the hole, but that's okay, because we know they can do it, too, and they have all year. 

Q.   We need to get back more on your history.   How tall were you when you decided to start playing and why did you wait so long?   Once you got to Norfolk State, can you talk about the importance of having a big man coach like Wilson Washington? 
KYLE O'QUINN:   I came into high school at 5‑11, my sophomore year I went up to 6‑3 and then before my junior year I was 6‑7 so it was kind of like I was forced, I was pushed, there was nowhere for me to go after school but the gym so I went and went and I finally didn't want to be the beat‑up toy, I wanted to be good.   I was a popular kid and I wanted to keep that popularity going in a positive way.   When I got to Norfolk State they took me in, they took me in as if they had plans for me, plans that nobody else had for me.   Wilson Washington wasn't there from the beginning, they had a guy there who knew the system and I took everything, and we worked countless hours, before practice, after practice, Wilson Washington just refined things that I was doing.   He's been a great help but I give it up to Coach Vickers and Coach Jones because they spent the time in the gym with me. 

Q.   Just with a day of reflection, what is it like to know that you're part of the group that beat that Missouri team in this season.   A lot of people were thinking they could go to the Final Four.   What's it like being the team that took 'em out? 
PENDARVIS WILLIAMS:   It feels great.   Everybody had them in their Final Four so it was great to get a win like that, and hopefully we can move on to the Final Four but we're taking it one day at a time. 
KYLE O'QUINN:   I wouldn't mind taking their place, in people's brackets and going to the Final Four but we're taking it one game at a time but to mess up that bracket in such a way that no one expected, it feels good.

Q.   Pendarvis you guys have a big backcourt how do you use that to your advantage? 
PENDARVIS WILLIAMS:   Me being 6‑6 at the point guard position it's usually a match‑up, I'm probably one of the tallest point guards in college right now and Pressey is about 5‑10 so I was able to shoot right over him as well as the other guards who were playing 6‑4 or under.   Chris McEachin is tall as well and McCauley, so that is to our advantage. 

Q.   Kyle, do you think it helped with Larry Vickers being your assistant coach for big men that he, too, did not play high school basketball before he played college basketball? 
KYLE O'QUINN:   Oh, yes, that definitely helped because not only on the court key help me, off the court he could let me.   When I was down he could let me know, you're not supposed to be here, so taking everything in as a blessing.   He started late, a lot of kids start early.   He gave me life lessons, instead of, like, on the court, it was great.   I'm filling his shoes.   He always told me that he put his career in my hands to get a championship so I played a little harder for him and he did a couple of extra things for me that a lot of coaches in the country I know wouldn't. 

Q.   Pendarvis I have to assume that your story must be similar to Kyle's, because a 6‑6 point guard does not come out of Philly without offers from these big five schools looking at him? 
PENDARVIS WILLIAMS:   I didn't play my freshman year, my sophomore year I played Junior Varsity and my junior and senior year I played Varsity, but I didn't play AAU that much and got overlooked but I went to Hun School in Princeton and did a post grad year and I had interest but nobody offered and Coach Evans came to my games and offered, and he told me I was one of their first options, and I liked Norfolk State, and I went there and it all turned out well. 

Q.   Florida is a team, like Missouri that relies on their guards and shoots a lot of 3‑pointers.   Do you feel like playing Missouri is going to have prepared you for the style Florida plays? 
KYLE O'QUINN:   Well, going against that stiff play that we're used to, you go into that game with a sense of confidence, we're playing against different players so we have to take their tendencies out but going against the style of play is good, so we try to stick to the same game plan, you don't have to change the game plan as much but everybody knows the new game, 0‑0, we still got to come out and play. 
PENDARVIS WILLIAMS:   Like Kyle said they do play a similar style but they are different players so we have to prepare for those type of players but they rely on three's, and they like to get in the lane and drop it off to Patric Young so we have to make sure we prepare for that. 

Q.   Kyle, did you almost get kicked off the team in high school because you jacked around so much? 
KYLE O'QUINN:   He saw potential, we had coaches come in and help out older players, they saw potential.   I wasn't playing as hard, so he scared me a little bit, I thought I was going to get kicked off the team, now I got to answer to my parents, it's like, okay, when are you going to get your act together, I didn't want to get kicked off the team, I didn't want to answer to anybody, like I said I was a popular kid and everybody would want to know why is this kid not on the team so I wanted to keep my image clean, and I played as hard as I could.   I was close, he never wanted to kick me off, he success suspend me off, but he never kicked me off.

Q.   Some of your teammates were saying last night in the locker room that they were waiting for a call from President Obama, I was wondering if he checked in with you guys last night?
PENDARVIS WILLIAMS:   Our teammates took a shot at President Obama because he had Mizzou in his Final Four and didn't think we were going to win like a lot didn't, people thought we were going to lose by at least 20 so it shocked them that we got the win.   But I don't think he has responded. 

Q.   Kyle, on Tuesday when we talked before you came out hear you mentioned that when you first got to Norfolk State, your ultimate dream would have been just to sit on the end of the bench, take your scholarship and that would have made you happy to do that.   If you had any clear, huge aspiration it would have been to start at some point, average 10 points at the most.   When did you awaken to the fact that you could achieve more than that at that school and sort of‑‑ you don't seem like a guy that lacks for confidence, did you have to build confidence as you kind of went along in college there?   Or did somebody help you come out of your shell a little bit? 
KYLE O'QUINN:   As I progressed, I felt confident and more confident, but I still question myself. 
But it was my sophomore year when they announced me second‑team all MEAC, so I stuck to the plan, maybe I was doing something different, and I set my goals higher and higher and my senior year I got the player of the year that's why I try to appreciate the guys under me, it's not that far, once you start, you get on the right path, you stick to it you get what you want, second team turned into first team, turned into player of the year so I had a lot of help but I stuck to the plan. 

Q.   Pendarvis, Florida likes to press, how do you feel that you're equipped to handle their pressure? 
PENDARVIS WILLIAMS:   We played against a team like Marquette who pressed us the whole game, and I think we have good enough ball handlers to handle the pressure and get it up the floor so we can execute plays. 

Q.   I apologize for bringing up a bad memory but for those of us that aren't familiar with your squad, can you tell us what happened in that Illinois State game where the margin was so big?   Were there guys out with injuries or what happened that night? 
KYLE O'QUINN:   It was a tough night.   It was a tough night, everybody hits 'em.   It wasn't our night, got in foul trouble quick, and seemed like everything was against us, we was in a gym where we had no fans, it was just the bench, probably one guy at the scorer's table that came with us, it was a bump in the road, every team hits it, we hit it hard, we bounced back, so we took everything from that game that we could, we look lessons from that game and went to it Toledo and it's been uphill ever since. 

Q.   Kyle, what's the most interesting tweet that you've gotten in the last 24 hours? 
KYLE O'QUINN:   The Jay Bilas tweet, I saved it and I "favorite" it, something like Kyle O'Quinn dominatein' player, something like that, it was great, it was great, it was from Jay Bilas is, I loved it. 

Q.   What happened with Elizabeth City. 
KYLE O'QUINN:   We overlooked 'em, I'm sorry if you were pointing at Pendarvis.   We thought we could go to the gym and show our faces, and it didn't work that way, they came in our gym with a sense of urgency, they wanted to play, they wanted to win, our schools are close, helped to take the majority of the fans, they did.   They played hard, we lost. 
PENDARVIS WILLIAMS:   We overlooked them, and they played hard and they wanted the game more than we did. 

Q.   At what point last night did the adrenaline wear off and you guys were able to settle down and get to sleep? 
PENDARVIS WILLIAMS:   I didn't fall asleep until about 2:00 in the morning, Kyle was already out snoring.   I was too hyped, I'm still hyped.   I've gotta calm my nerves and move on to the next game. 
KYLE O'QUINN:   It was tough going to bed, but when I fell asleep I was out cold and text messages woke me up this morning, I was answering text message when we were on the phone but I went to sleep I was exhausted. 

Q.   Kyle, there are a lot of kids from New York City on the roster, and kids from Philadelphia, how does that "city influence" play into your team? 
KYLE O'QUINN:   Being a NewYorker you have to have the personality of "don't back down" because the city is so big you have to have alot to answer to.   You gotta cover yourselves at all times, if you win, the city loves you, either you're the hero or the goat, you always love the city to love you. 

Q.   I don't think you trailed by more than 4 at any point last night and I think that was only once.   How important was it to always have Missouri right there, never let 'em get any kind of a lead, as far as staying in that game confidence wise and knowing you could pull that thing off and it's important that you do the same thing with Florida tomorrow, never to let them get any kind of separation on you. 
PENDARVIS WILLIAMS:   Well, when we stuck around we gained our confidence and the crowd got into it because a lot of people didn't think the game would be that close.   Once we stuck around we believed and we knew that we had a chance to win and that helped us a lot. 
KYLE O'QUINN:   It gave us confidence and when they went on a run and you look up and you're only down 2, down 4, it's like, okay, one stop and a score we right back in it, one stop and a score we right back in it, now they're chasing us, let's score, and get a stop.   That's how it goes, it's a basketball game with the guards they have we knew they could put up points, we was waiting around and we seen it was happening, and we were like, okay, let's win this thing.   We have a chance, let's win this thing. 

Q.   Kyle, take me through your most helacious travel experience for basketball this year. 
KYLE O'QUINN:   The Virgin Islands, it was a wonderful trip.   It was vacation‑‑

Q.   What was the worst? 
KYLE O'QUINN:   Oh, the worst one.   Probably Illinois State.   It felt like everybody was against you, the whole crowd was screaming crazy things, I couldn't tell you the things they were saying from the stands but that was the worst one. 

Q.   What about the worst in terms of getting to where you were playing a game?   You guys fly commercially don't you? 
KYLE O'QUINN:   Oh you mean like bad experiences. 

Q.   Yeah. 
KYLE O'QUINN:   Just know that this is the best experience.   I mean, not to down play the university but we bus pretty much all of our trips, we're not bad, we don't taste this life all the time, it's not bad, I love it, Norfolk State is my Duke University, I treat it like so, bus trips are great, going in and out of TSA and things like that might be bad, but you learn to appreciate it because not everybody can do it. 

Q.   Kyle, I assume you guys are aware that 15's are 0‑4, the 15's that have won have not won their next game.   Is there a challenge in putting what you have done behind and you Pendarvis talked about coming down last night from the hype, is there a challenge in coming down and looking at what's ahead of you? 
KYLE O'QUINN:   When you made history and you want to "make" history it's hard.   We know the good feeling we had last night and we don't want it top end.   We love Omaha, Nebraska and we want to stay here and enjoy it to the fullest.   It was a good game last night but we got to play tomorrow, last night is not going to win us tomorrow, and we understand that, we're five seniors on the team, it's going to trickle down. 
PENDARVIS WILLIAMS:   Would you repeat the question, please? 

Q.   Four No. 15 teams have gotten this far but none have gotten father.   You were talking about the hype last night and is there a challenge for gearing up for the next game and coming off that win? 
PENDARVIS WILLIAMS:   Like Kyle said it's good to be all a part of history, but we're not worried about things that happened in the past.   Just like the people that didn't believe we were going to win last night.   We are we're going to go and prepare and do whatever we can do to advance to the Sweet 16. 
THE MODERATOR:   Gentlemen, enjoy Omaha, see you tomorrow.   Head Coach of the Spartans, Anthony Evans is with us. 
COACH EVANS:   The team is excited about the win but we know we have a tough challenge in front of us, Florida.   We're going to prepare for today, look at some scout and prepare for tomorrow. 

Q.   Kyle has come in and taken over this place with his personality and his play.   What makes him tick? 
COACH EVANS:   He's a big kid to be honest with you.   He's kind of got his emotions under control because when he first came he was all over the place but now you can see why the personality, the kid is who he is. 

Q.   Coach, you guys are obviously facing a lot of history just like you were against Missouri.   Do you use this as a motivating tactic for your players that no 15 seed has won a second game and you're going up against Florida? 
COACH EVANS:   We can use that and talk about VCU last year and we're going to take the mentality of going in, playing good defense and being prepared.   Just finish the game up. 

Q.   Pendarvis talked about having trouble getting sleep last night, up till 2:00, trouble coming down.   Is there a challenge in getting a team that's just accomplished the greatest win in school history to put it behind them and concentrate on the next task at hand? 
COACH EVANS:   Only until we get to practice, once we get back to reality, they start working and we start yelling at them again, they'll come down from the high. 

Q.   Anthony, can you talk about your upbringing and the things that have shaped who you are as a basketball coach and a person? 
COACH EVANS:   Well, started out a long time ago.   As a volunteer assistant in Orange County Community College, I worked at a convenient store I've made sacrifices in my life to get to this point.   My mother has been great, she is a single parent, disciplined, she took care of me, made sure I was good and coming up in Brooklyn.   It's a tough environment and if you don't stick to your values then you can get swallowed up by it. 

Q.   Anthony, pretty good size for a backcourt that you have with 6‑6 point guard, 6‑5 footing guards, how do you use that to your advantage and how do you think it helped during the Missouri game? 
COACH EVANS:   Just like with Missouri we're going to try to keep those guys out of the lane.   Dribble penetration is important because it creates shots for other teams so we don't want them to get into the lane, we want to use our length to challenge shots so they're not knockin' down wide‑open shots.   We know they're not going to shoot as bad as they did yesterday, at all. 

Q.   Coach, I understand that when you went to Campus Magnet High in NewYork to recruit you were recruiting a point guard and you wound up discovering Kyle.   What was it about this guy that obviously didn't know an awful lot about the game that was attracted to you?   Was it the size? 
COACH EVANS:   Yeah, it was 6‑10, in the MEAC you don't get that every day so we wanted a kid who wanted to be at Norfolk State who was looking for opportunity and we saw the skill and potential in him. 

Q.   You guys‑‑ did you offer the point guard‑‑ did you wind up offering the point guard that you were looking at? 
COACH EVANS:   Not after we saw Kyle, no. 

Q.   Coach, Kyle seems like he was made for the national stage when he gets up here.   His personality, he's articulate, he gives great answers.   He seems like he's destined for big things and I'm not even talking about basketball.   Has that been the case or are we seeing a kid blossom? 
COACH EVANS:   He has blossomed but the personality has always been there.   We wanted to rein him in a little bit because he wanted to be the class clown.   You wanted to run practice and Kyle is telling jokes on the sideline or pouring water down somebody's back and those things happened as a freshman, but this is a reward for him for all the hard work over the past four years and I'm happy for him. 

Q.   With the day to reflect on a victory like that, what's it like when you look back five years from now beating Missouri in this season, possibly the best in school history, what will you take away from that experience? 
COACH EVANS:   I think we will realize at that point that we are a part of history in this tournament and not a lot of 15 seeds who have beaten a No. 2 seed so hopefully we will look back and see "One Shining Moment" and know that we were a part of this and be happy about it. 

Q.   Anthony, how concerned are you with the fact that your bench did not give you a whole lot last night and what will you did about that in practice today or in discussions with them? 
COACH EVANS:   I think it's confidence.   Yesterday those guys came in and they did a decent job of spelling our starters, but all year long they have been consistent for us, all year long they have been productive so I think tomorrow they will be productive for us when they step on the floor. 

Q.   Anthony, Florida is a team that mixes in the press throughout the game.   How do you feel you're equipped to handle their pressure if they throw it although you? 
COACH EVANS:   We've seen teams this year who have pressed us, TCU pressed us early in the year, teams in our confidence pressed us, so we will be ready for it, it's a matter of taking care of the basketball and not allowing them to get easy layups, transition baskets, because if we do it will be a long, long night. 

Q.   Coach, you hear NFL teams Super Bowl week talk about managing distractions, you've got Super Bowl week wrapped up in one day, what is it like? 
COACH EVANS:   I've never been around anything like this, it's great for the program and great for the kids but in practice we talk about it being "businesslike" or preparing for the game it's "businesslike" that's the attitude we have taken all throughout the year and it's helped us be successful. 

Q.   Coach Billy Donovan was in here earlier and he talked about when he watched the game yesterday when he sensed from watching the fact down the stretch the fact that they believed they could win and some of them had Missouri in their bracket.   Can you talk about when you did yesterday to get them to believe that you are the better team and you could win? 
COACH EVANS:   The thing we could reflect on is Marquette University, we played them a couple of times, we lost to them pretty did I bad the first time, and we played them in the Paradise Jam, and we only lost by 2 points.   They like to run up and down, they play great basketball, but I was confident we could do well.   I didn't know we were going to score 84 points, I thought we would have to keep the game in the 70s, but the team did a great job offensively but we talk about this being a special year for us, they were going to be confident, they have been tested throughout the year so we wanted to reiterate that we could go out and win this basketball game. 

Q.   Coach, you guys have struggled shooting the ball from the perimeter a little bit this year, but what was it that you did yesterday to shoot better and is that something that you feel like you can repeat against Florida? 
COACH EVANS:   I think it came at the right time.   Pendarvis and Chris were in a slump going down in the end of the season maybe because of fatigue but they shot the ball really well yesterday and we're hoping that we can continue that but I don't know if we can shoot 50% but we're going to go out there and execute and try and be efficient and productive. 

Q.   You said you were work at a convenience store, is that while you were a coach? 
COACH EVANS:   Yes. 

Q.   What was a typical day like for you? 
COACH EVANS:   I would go to work at the college, work out with players, we would have practice, I would walk to work, I didn't have a car.   So I would spend probably seven hours in a convenience store till close, I was the person that closed and repeat the process the next day. 

Q.   What was the name of the convenience store and what was the worst chore you had to do there?   What annoyed you the most? 
COACH EVANS:   Cleaning the bathroom, that was terrible, but it was something that you had to do.   Bathroom had to be cleaned, it was cleaned.   The person that I worked for e‑mailed me last night and it was funny because he said "I taught you everything you knew about working in a convenience store" I thought that was funny, Kevin Hannon, great guy.   He helped me get my first car, he was a great person. 

Q.   What was the name of the store? 
COACH EVANS:   84 Quick Stop, Q‑U‑I‑C‑K.

Q.   Anthony, a lot of New York City kids on your roster and I know that you have a NewYork background, maybe a comfort level of recruiting kids there and do they show their fearlessness on the court because of their background? 
COACH EVANS:   You always want to go where you're comfortable and New York City players have a toughness that you're looking for and when you step on the court and they have played in AAU against the best players in the country, that fear is not there, obviously we talk about respecting our opponent but there is no fear. 

Q.   The night you guys lose to Elizabeth City, what goes through your mind about what needs to change with this team?   I'm quite certain at that point that the furthest thing from your mind was probably getting this far, were you just thinking how do I get them through the next day of practice?   What do you change? 
COACH EVANS:   It was a wake‑up call, we had won some games in a row and we weren't doing the things that helped us win. 
We were starting to repress a little too much and it was a wake‑up call because I believe the next few games we actually won. 

Q.   Coach, in terms of Kyle's conditioning, he gave you 37 great minutes last night in an emotionally charged game is he capable of coming back and giving you 37 more or do you have to limit how much he's on the court against Florida? 
COACH EVANS:   We're going to try to manage it better but Kyle has been the heart and soul of this basketball team, he's played 30‑some minutes about every single game, when we played in the tournament, 30 minutes, Paradise Jam, 30 minutes, so he's going to definitely play and if he can give us 37 minutes he will play 37 minutes, we're going to manage it. 

Q.   Has he had back‑to‑back games where he's done this, played 37 minutes and then‑‑
COACH EVANS:   In the Paradise Jam, 30 minutes every game. 

Q.   The fact that you had gone probably 18 games in a row as being the favorite coming down the stretch, how much did you appreciate being the underdog and how much did you let that play into your players' heads that, hey, we're the dog here, let's do something with that role? 
COACH EVANS:   It was good because when you're the underdog there is no pressure.   There is no pressure on you, you go out and perform, and what we told 'em is four‑minute increments, we go out there and play hard, as long as we stay close we're going to put the pressure on them and the last thing we told 'em is to go out there and have fun.   This is not a tournament where you can walk out, deer in headlights, go out there and play like you have all year long. 

Q.   Anthony, your players seemed impressed with the water slide and the restaurants and the charter flight and the arena, how does this compare to a normal road trip? 
COACH EVANS:   Not normal at all, the charter flight was nice, the bus came on the tarmac to pick us up, we have never experienced anything like that before, the closest thing we could talk about is when we went to the Paradise Jam, when they picked up our bags and brought us to the hotel and they treated us great but this is a once‑in‑a‑lifetime thing and I hope these guys understand it and appreciate it. 

Q.   Do you game plan when you're connecting on flights and you have layovers in airports? 
COACH EVANS:   Oh, yeah, we doing, my staff and I text each other, talk all the time about what we can do to disrupt the other team, what we can do to be as efficient as possible. 

Q.   You have alluded to that trip to the Virgin Islands.   What was that like as a bonding experience? 
COACH EVANS:   Because it was us against everyone else, we didn't have any fans‑‑ we did, we had six fans and Marquette had a stand full, TCU as well as Drexel, so it was us against everyone else, I thought it was a great bonding experience for us and it worked out even though we lost in the championship game we were the first MEAC team to get there and I was proud of the team. 

Q.   What kind of conversation or comments were your players making when they're riding a bus with a police escort with the sirens going off in front of them?   Were there comments made about what was going on? 
COACH EVANS:   I wish you were in the bus.   They were in the back going crazy.   None of us‑‑ I was even in awe, the police were cutting off everyone to let us go first.   Everyone was saying it felt like we were the president or in a presidential motor car, but it was good, it was a great experience. 

Q.   You mentioned earlier that you don't get a 6‑10 guy in the MEAC guy very often, what do you think in the long run what happened yesterday, all the publicity that you're getting does for recruiting?   Do you feel like you're carrying the banner for the MEAC as well? 
COACH EVANS:   Yeah, hopefully it will help recruiting, I've gotten text message and phone calls that they wouldn't return my call before so it's a good thing.   And I think people don't understand how good the MEAC truly is.   It's a great conference, they have great coaches, great players, and you don't get the exposure that some of the big schools do but it's a good conference and for us to get this win, I've gotten calls from the coaches in the league, they're proud of us and they want us to continue. 

Q.   You mentioned the Paradise Jam and you may have answered this but how do you go from lose to go Marquette by 30 to losing to them by 2 points? 
COACH EVANS:   Made adjustments, up at their place they got transition basket after transition basket, we slowed 'em down, played zone, three‑quarter pressure, and we slowed 'em down, along with confidence, you're playing somebody for the second time there is a sense of, okay, we know these guys, understand what we did wrong and we're going to make adjustments so we can win the game. 
THE MODERATOR:   Anthony, thank you very much, best of luck tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT