KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2019
Mike Miles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You held it together on a tough day for scoring.  It wasn't -- it was great for weather obviously.
MIKE MILES: The course is just hard.
Q. Just plain hard, huh?
MIKE MILES: Yeah.  It's hard.  And if you get off the fairways, whether it's by the greens or in the fairway, it's a whole different ball game.  You're trying to basically almost not make double bogey and make sure you make 5, so everybody, our whole group and this and that.
I started hitting the back end of the fairway at the end of the round, so I got a little relaxed.  And then saw that the cut was real high, so I started to make some -- I was a little tight this morning.  I'm not -- this is -- you know, I don't play tournament golf, so, you know, I'm playing well, but get a little rusty.
Q. After 69 the first day, do you just sort of say, well, I can try to be steady the second day?
MIKE MILES: Yeah.
Q. That's all you try to do?
MIKE MILES: Just try to hit good shots.
Q. Yes.
MIKE MILES: You know, not really -- you always -- I -- at least I always try to think, well, I like to climb the leaderboard like I would if I was whoever, you know, a name player, but then you got to turn back around as you just hit a good shot, hit a good putt, and don't get ahead of yourself.  Just like you always hear on TV.
Q. Sure.
MIKE MILES: Same for me.
Q. The last hole, how far was that par putt?  I mean, excuse me, birdie putt.  Excuse me.  Birdie putt.
MIKE MILES: That was probably 30 feet, but it was a tough putt because it was up and then downhill.  And the greens were a little hard to read, the up and the down today, I think just because the sun kept changing.  I've got contact lenses and old eyes, so I missed a couple of the breaks on the green, so I had a couple of three-putts that I normally wouldn't have.  Other than that, I think for me it was a real solid, solid round.
Q. As you know, tomorrow everybody gets an early start because of the rain coming in later in the afternoon.  And so it's just a matter of, like you said, dealing with it and just trying to play calm and patient?
MIKE MILES: Yeah, I'm going to switch gears, you know, it's great for me to make the cut, as much as, you know, that might not be a great goal, but for me I get to play two more.  Now I can kind of relax and it doesn't mean a whole lot to me.  My life doesn't change unless I won the tournament.  If I finish 5th, I still go back to work and have a great place.
So it's kind of going to be fun for me.  Some of the other guys, you know, it's a little different.  They're still playing solid.  So it will be a great time for me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT