KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2019
Mike Miles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty decent day out there.
MIKE MILES: It was a good day.
Q. Let's hear about it.
MIKE MILES: Oh, I -- it had a little bit of everything.  Had some good ball striking.  Couple really long putts, 50-footers, and some good up-and-downs at the end.  I think I started getting a little tired.  I'm not used to this much golf because I've got a real job.  But all in all, I shot 1-under, which, you know, on this golf course, for me, is great.
Q. What were the 50-footers?
MIKE MILES: We had the rain delay, and then we came out, No. 1 was my 10th hole, so I got to play down off the tee.  I left it short of the green, about 50 paces off the green, so I had about a 50-footer up to the hole and holed it from off the green with a putter.
And then just on No. 9, I hit two really good shots up on the green.  The wind was howling.  And, again, it was probably -- you know, it was a good 45 feet.  Hit the back of the hole and went up in the air and kind of sat there for about five seconds and went right down into the hole.
Q. Did you notice any difference after the delay?
MIKE MILES: Yeah.  At first the rough was a lot more wet.  So the balls were not coming out of it.  So I had a couple shots that I thought would jump, and they didn't.  And then probably about our last six we started getting that really heavy wind.  And then the last hole, it's doing now what it was doing on Monday.  So the course is brutal when it's like that.
Q. Even par is a great score today, but you didn't get that last one --
MIKE MILES: Yeah.  Oh, it's just -- it's fun for me.  I'm not a competitive golfer.  I was a long time ago.  You know, I still once in a while look like a good golfer.  But some of the guys playing in the tournament are some of the greatest that have ever played.  So I was cup of coffee on the Tour for a couple years, and then I've worked in golf (indiscernible) that I'm working on.
But to shoot 1-under, I'm always thinking I'm going to win the tournament, but be realistic, I just try to hit some good shots.  But to shoot 1-under now, you know, I'm playing well, swinging good, I may as well think I can stand up there.
Q. Played in this a couple times before, but this was easily your best round.
MIKE MILES: Yeah, this is my third one.  And, yeah, for sure.  Yeah.
Q. Is there a difference in your game today than it was --
MIKE MILES: Yeah, I've -- from the time I turned 50, the way I work on my game, the way I play competitively, I get a lot more out of it than when I was young.  So when I do play, I tend to play pretty good.  I don't overpractice and I work on things that are my weaknesses.
So I have a different perspective now that I'm older.  I made a lot of mistakes when I was young and on the PGA TOUR.  That's why I never stayed there.  So I don't make those mistakes, which is fun.
Q. So you have -- now that you're kind of in the mix to advance to the weekend, have your goals or objectives for the week changed at all?  Did you come in here with a specific goal in mind?
MIKE MILES: I think when I -- I don't enter any tournaments unless I think I can possibly win.  That's a big stretch for this one.  But it's different, the senior players, they all have something wrong with them, you know, the best of the best.  I've got a bad back.  I can hit the same shot that Bernhard can hit, I just might not hit it ten times in a row.  So there's no reason why I can't finish up at the top in some fashion.  Yeah.  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT