WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL A: TOKYO
March 7, 2009
Tae-Kyun Kim
In-Sik Kim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well, that was such a huge loss, and can you tell us about the starting pitcher and also the impression for the Japanese offense?  
 IN-SIK KIM: Yes, the starter Kim Kwang-Hyun, he's only a 20-year-old pitcher. He's young and he doesn't have enough experience, such as Olympics and WBC. So he was a little bit too nervous.   
 And also, the Japanese team has a lot of current Major League players, four or five, many foreign Major League players playing against, so that is also a pressure.   
 Kim Kwang-Hyun pitched well against Japan. We had advance scout information, but I think Kim Kwang-Hyun's condition is not so well and his location is not as good as he's supposed to throw.   
 And also, the Japanese hitters, they kept the game's momentum because of their beginning in the early innings.  
  
  Q. Now, you changed the catcher, was it because of the pitcher what was the reason for the change, please?  
 IN-SIK KIM: Well, we gave up so many runs before, and I wanted to rest Mr. Park for tomorrow's game. That's what I planned for an early give-up of runs.   
 And I understand that Mr. Park has some injury or pain in his body. Yesterday he slid into second base and I think he injured his arm. It's a very minor injury, however I wanted to make sure that he can rest well for tomorrow's game.   
  
  Q. You have to play four games in the first round; you used four pitchers in yesterday's contest and also today you used four pitchers. Does this affect the third pitcher? He pitched too many, do you think? Do you agree with my opinion?  
 IN-SIK KIM: Well, this game, throughout the tournament the system, some teams have to play three or four games. And also, a 14-2 loss is the same value as a 1-0 loss game.   
 Today's game, Japan beat us with 14 runs. And our pitcher, yes, pitched too many. Due to a lot of earned runs, a pitcher has to pitch so many pitches. Yes, as a matter of fact, it affects tomorrow's game.   
 If a pitcher pitched more than 50 pitches, you have to have one day rest, and that's the rule. So we have to follow the rules. So the third pitcher, Jang Wonsam, he pitched more than we expect.   
  
  Q. It was a very tough game and you gave up huge runs. Now you have to play again and improve or encourage players to be motivated, and there is the possibility for your team to play against Japan Monday. How would you like to prepare your players for next match against Japan?  
 IN-SIK KIM: Well, the most important game is tomorrow's game for us. We don't know -- well, I can't think what will happen next after until after tomorrow's game, because unless we win tomorrow, there will be no game on Monday.   
 So we will give it all tomorrow, and then after that, wealthy about the day after tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Tell us about your game plan against China. Did you analyze enough, or do you have a starting report about the China Team? You have no rest day tomorrow and you have to play against China. How do you prepare for tomorrow's game?  
 IN-SIK KIM: Yes, about the China Team, we have enough advanced report, so it all depends on tomorrow's contest, what is going to be in this tournament.   
 So the more important thing is tomorrow's game. We think about the future after tomorrow's game. Anyway, tomorrow's game is more important than anything.   
  
  Q. Baseball is a game that you sometimes lose. Now, some of the problems were exposed from today's game. Whether chin shoe and chin say hoe, do you want to use them tomorrow?  
 IN-SIK KIM: That is a good question, and your point is good, because baseball changes a lot as the game progresses.   
 About Dae-Ho, he is good on offense, and it is possible for him to replace the other infielder.   
 And about Choo Shin-Soo, he was not able to practice a lot, so that's difficult for him to play as the DH. However, I think he is improving.   
  
  Q. Recently you had a good test against team Japan, but today you have a mercy rule loss. It was kind of a surprise to us. Does this mean the Japan team has improved, or your team is increasing the level of baseball?  
 IN-SIK KIM: As you know, although we won the Gold Medal in the Olympics, none of the Major League players can play in the Olympic contest. On the other hand, the WBC, Major League players can attend in the play.   
 So compared to our roster, Japan has four or five Major League active roster players, but here, our team doesn't have enough. So the material of the player is quite a difference.   
 And also, although we won the Olympics last year, we missed a couple of key players due to injury. Although our latest stats, we had a good result against Japan, but I personally always think that Japan has advanced capability.   
 Yes, we lost 2-14, but this is a part of baseball. So a loss is a loss. It doesn't mean anything beyond that.   
  
  Q. Again, today's game was very difficult. About tomorrow's game, can you tell us who you will start the game with?  
 IN-SIK KIM: Mr. Yoon I am thinking of starting tomorrow's game.   
  
  Q. Although you had a tough loss, that was such a nice home run off Matsuzaka. Since choosing to have the DH spot, sometimes due to the bench work on the double-switch system stuff, sometimes you have to go back to the dugout. How do you feel?  
 TAE KYUN KIM: Well, all I can say is the more important thing is to contribute to the team, to win. So that's my comment. That's my quote.   
  
  Q. Now, you are a member of the national team. Actually this is the first loss, after the professional baseball players participated on the Korean National Team. I think emotionally, you might be suffering from the loss. How are you doing and how are your teammates doing?  
 TAE KYUN KIM: Well, the baseball is the game that you can win and that you can lose. The loss is the loss, even if you give up only one run or you give up a huge runs.   
 So of course, early we gave up a lot of runs, so we don't have to worry about today. What we are thinking about now is tomorrow, and we will make a great victory tomorrow and we will play against Japan on Monday.   
  
  Q. You played against Chinese Taipei and today against China; is there any mental balance change, or are you feeling the same emotionally?  
 TAE KYUN KIM: Yeah, mentally, compared to last night and tonight, there's no difference.   
 But we had a huge lead early innings, so during the game, I felt Japan is a tough opponent. And the more runs Japan scored, some of our players might have been lacking concentration.   
  
  Q. Including you, there are a lot of players who are young, born in 1982. However, you had a really tough game loss by giving up a lot of runs. However, I think you are senior to the younger players. Do you want to give any advice to your fellow team members?  
 TAE KYUN KIM: As I said earlier, that players are not really upset with this loss. We lost and after the game is over during the meeting, post-game meeting, we talked about not getting depressed and just prepare for tomorrow.   
 So, we are fine. Mentally, we are okay, and we will play again tomorrow, do our best, and play our game tomorrow and I will have to show a great performance tomorrow with my teammates.   
  
  Q. Your first at-bat, you had a 3-0 fastball and you had a home run. Second at-bat, you flied out to right field. Is there any differences of impression of Matsuzaka when you faced him twice?  
 TAE KYUN KIM: Yes, his fastball is the same. My first at-bat, I am ahead of the count, so I had confidence.   
 But in my second at-bat, I am behind in the count, so I was on the edge. Matsuzaka's velocity is pretty much equal. That's how I felt about Matsuzaka.   
  
  Q. In the WBC last year, you didn't participate. However, you already had the leader, such as Mr. Kim Hyun-Soo. Now you have a team with young members. Maybe you are full of energy, but maybe you miss having a strong leader. Do you think the lacking leadership caused this loss today?  
 TAE KYUN KIM: Well, at the beginning, people thought about that, however because I am playing with almost the same age, and actually with the members at the same age on a young team, so we can enjoy the game and we can really relax.   
 Today we lost by giving up huge runs, however, I would like to stress that we are not in a bad mood. And I don't think we lost because we don't have any leadership. I think it's just today's loss was caused by the difference in capability.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT