U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2019
Canon Claycomb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just talk me through a little bit about the last two holes there.
CANON CLAYCOMB: Yeah, so I was 4-up making the turn and hit a good shot on 10 and missed the green from like 120 yards.  I think I lost four holes in a row after that.
And then Luke chipped in on 17 to go 1-up.  Then I been playing 18 really well.  He missed the fairway to the right and then hit a wedge into the bunker, and I hit one to about 15, 20 feet.  Then he hit it over the green and gave me the hole.
Then 1, I have to give all my credit to my caddie.  I nuked a 2-iron down there.  Hit it so hard.  That was a really good tee shot.  You got to be in the fairway there.
I was just thinking too fast and I pulled 8.  He pulled me off and said, Hey, man, I think this is a 9.  We talked through it and it was a 9.  I hit it to about six feet and then, I mean, just dead center of the cup on the last to win.
Yeah, felt really good.
Q. Yeah.  Heading into the round of 16 now, what's the mindset going into the afternoon?
CANON CLAYCOMB: I think I'm just going to go out and enjoy it.  I been just trying to enjoy the moment in every match.  I mean, I have a little fire under me, you know, watching my three best friends do an interview with the USGA before the round and I'm the only one standing -- I think Michael might still be here and Akshay, but I know Carl is not.
I was a 36 seed; just beat the 4 seed.  I think me and my caddie, we have this underdog mentality, whether that's true or not.  Yeah, just trying to go out and win every hole and take it one hole at a time.
Q. Yeah, there are a few of the top seeds dropped already and couple more are in trouble.  Michael is tied going into 17 now.  1 seed William lost this morning; 2 seed is in trouble.  Does that kind of give you a little bit more fire?
CANON CLAYCOMB: Yeah, that's how match play is.  It's just whoever gets the best draw usually does the best.
I know like Moll played a good player this morning.  At this level we're all so good that, I mean, 64 seed could beat a 1 seed and no one would be that surprised.
I think it's just more mental.  Yeah, I definitely enjoy being the 36 seed, and especially winning against the 4 seed this morning it was a lot of fun, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT