U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2019
Canon Claycomb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So that was a survive and advance situation.
CANON CLAYCOMB: Yeah.
Q. How did you pull it off?
CANON CLAYCOMB: You know, I played -- we both played okay all day.  Neither one of us played great.  Back nine I made the turn and hit a driver on 10 down in the bottom of the fairway and kind of got a little momentum there.
And then I hit a 2-iron to like six feet on 11 and made eagle to go 2-up.
So I had a little momentum, and then I lost 16 and 17 back to back.  Just put myself out of position.
And then he hit what I thought was a pretty good 2-iron on the last hole.  Ended up in the rough and left himself short-sided in the bunker, and I hit it to about six feet and made the putt and he made 5.
Yeah, I pulled it out.  Played good towards the end other than 16 and 17.  The whole back nine I played really well.  Yeah, feels good to win.
Q. What did you hit into 18 and what was your yardage?
CANON CLAYCOMB: I hit 2-iron, and that left me with 93 yards.  I tried to hit it 95 and hit my number perfect.  I hit a 56-degree kind of knockdown, try and take the spin off, and it landed really nice and spun back to about six feet.
Q. When you got on the 18th tee, what were you thinking?  What was your he mental state?
CANON CLAYCOMB: I was just trying to get a ball in the fairway.  Out here if you miss the fairway at all you just out yourself out of position and you're playing for par at best.
I just wanted to get a ball in the fairway.  If you have a ball in the fairway on 18 it's a pretty easy wedge, especially to that front pin today.  That was kind of the mindset on 18.
Q. Is there a sense of relief that you've advanced or are you all fired up for the next round?
CANON CLAYCOMB: A little bit of both.  I'm going to go eat some lunch and probably head out to the practice range and try and figure a few things out and try and get the putter working a little bit better.
Then, yeah, I'm going to be super excited to come out here again tomorrow.
Q. Last question:  Tell me about the eagle, how you did it and the clubs.
CANON CLAYCOMB: Yeah, so 11 was playing 256 today and it was downwind.  The 3rd hole, par-3, it was playing like 251 today.  I hit 2-iron there, so I knew 2-iron was a perfect club.
Just hit a nice high draw and it landed pin high, and used the slope behind the pin and brought it back to about four feet and made one of the few putts I made all day on that hole.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT