ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2015
Garth Mulroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How does it feel after two rounds to be in such a nice, tidy position?
GARTH MULROY: Yeah, I'll take it.  I haven't been playing well lately, and I made a few birdies the first two days, so in a good position.
Q. I take it that means you've scored well at Kingsbarns and rubber-stamped the effort at St. Andrews?
GARTH MULROY: I played a good back nine yesterday and then good front nine today, when it played tough this morning and it was cold and a little bit breezy.  Died down a little on the back nine.  Feel like could have been a bit better, but that's what you get here.
Depending on the weather, you have to take advantage of it.  I played well going out and probably scored a bit better than I should have going out when it was playing tough.
Q. Beautiful conditions in this part of the world, but that wind was very tricky, wasn't it.
GARTH MULROY: Yeah, going out, it was in off the left the whole way out and cold, so it played tough.  Usually, I think it's supposed to play downwind for the most part.  I think we played 13 or 14 holes into the breeze.  Maybe we'll get it better than that on Sunday.
Q. Do you enjoy this format, having a partner and a team effort?
GARTH MULROY: I do.  Played a few of them through the years.  At times you've got to try and concentrate.  You forget what you're really doing.  But yeah, it's working so far.
Definitely frees you up a bit.  You can get a bit heated under the collar, and your partner asks you a question and get your mind on something else quickly.  You've got to be nice; can't take it out on him.
Q. The awkward question then.  Where have you been?  What have you been up to?
GARTH MULROY: Yeah, I've been playing a little bit in the States trying to make some ground there but didn't play well.  So now I'm back here finishing off the season.  Got some work to do here since I haven't played well most of the year.  That's that.  I'm back.
Q. Still positive or hard to be positive?
GARTH MULROY: No, I'm positive.  I had my coach come out last week from South Africa to help me.  I was a bit lost.  Did some good work and still got to trust a few things, and that's hard to do on the course.  Hopefully keep going forward and get it all going at some stage.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT