COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 24, 2013
Garth Mulroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell me about 7‑under par in these conditions.   
    GARTH MULROY:   Yeah, I played well, started early this morning, no wind at all.   Greens were good.   A lot better than yesterday afternoon, and I think birdied three out of the last four, so got off to a nice start, slowed up a little bit but it was nice to get off to a quick start.  
   
 Q.   Elaborate on the differences.   You came in when the greens were much more spiked on the first day?  
    GARTH MULROY:   Yesterday afternoon, the greens, they were tough, very bumpy.   So a little bit more grass, a little bit more grainy, too.   This morning, the moisture, smooth perfect greens, at least for nine holes, and the back still played better than yesterday afternoon.  
   
 Q.   We spoke at the same stage last week, so presumably the game is in gear but have you learned anything from the last weekend you played?   
    GARTH MULROY:   Yeah, I think I got out of my rhythm a little bit last weekend, changing from three balls to two balls for the weekend, you've got to‑‑ you can't just take a casual stroll, you can end up getting a little bit behind.   Tomorrow I'll start off a little quicker pace the first tee and keep the same speed.  
   
 Q.   Overall the game must be in good shape in your mind, as well?   
    GARTH MULROY:   Yeah, I'm playing okay.   Like you said, off to a good start last week, too, and then the weekend, not so good, so it's obviously not great.   But you know, I'm in position at least.   
   
 Q.   Do you like this course here in Doha?   
    GARTH MULROY:   I do.   You're not stressing too much over two shots.   There's a little bit of space and even if you hit it in the rough, it's not like there's too much danger in the rough.   You get some bad lies but it's not hazards and OB and that sort of stuff.   Let's you free up a little bit, and then you know, drive it in the fairway, you can attack a little bit.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT