ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2013
Garth Mulroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about this round.  
GARTH MULROY:   Yeah, I played nicely.   I kind of kept it role from yesterday, it was tough with the wind, and played well.   Then today, in some calmer conditions, it was easier.  
   
 Q.   What's working? What's the reason why you're scoring nicely?   
GARTH MULROY:   I don't know, I guess when key putts go in on the last, it turned and went in.   In the end it always comes down to putting.   Just need to make some more.   
On the last hole, went down the hill, quite a long one, probably 40 feet, and thought I had missed it left, which is the low ride and right at the end it turned back up, so I am surprised.   
   
 Q.   You're never entirely sure how you're going to come out after some time off?  
GARTH MULROY:   Yeah a week of practise, but coming in, I felt like I was making progress, so ready to go.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel the benefits of the break?   
GARTH MULROY:   Yeah, last year, I played 36 or 37 events, and that's a lot of travel, a lot of golf.   So I definitely could have done another three weeks, that would have been nice.  
   
 Q.   What will you do this season?  
GARTH MULROY:   I'm going to focus on The European Tour and some of the Web.com Tour, too.   Just kind of play Europe the first couple months of the season and decide from there.   
I know one thing is I'll play less golf.   
   
 Q.   You're in a lovely position?  
GARTH MULROY:   I am, a few good rounds, up there on the leaderboard.   Whenever your name is on the board, you know you've played okay, so yeah, nice start.   
   
 Q.   Do you relish the fact that you're up there in this kind of elite company?   
GARTH MULROY:   It's a nice event, an event I've watched for a few years, get out of bed in time for it, sit down, eat breakfast, cup of coffee and watch some golf.   So I've enjoyed watching it, and now I'm here.   
   
 Q.   And this week people are watching you, which is all the better?  
GARTH MULROY:   Yeah, it's nice.   Hopefully the family can turn it on and see me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT