THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2012
Garth Mulroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GARTH MULROY:   I played well for a long time, I just had a tough finish.   A little disappointed right now.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
GARTH MULROY:   Yeah, just hit in a few bunkers, hit the wrong club off either 14 or 15, just reached the bunker and had to chop it out and then hit it in one on 17, also, and had to play outside of it.   
And 18 I hit it in the greenside and it buried.   Not a nice finish.  
   
 Q.   How did the bunkers change?  
GARTH MULROY:   There's still water.   They're maybe not as deep, but a lot of them you're still dropping in the bunkers.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
GARTH MULROY:   It's good.   Greens are good.   Greens are a bit faster today, I think.   It took me a few holes to adjust to that.   It's still soft, so not much running a ball up from a lot of places.   Greens are also still really receptive.  
   
 Q.   The conditions the last two days were a little bit patchy.   They're expecting strong winds tomorrow.   Do you think today was the day to go out and score?   
GARTH MULROY:   I think I wouldn't be surprised if there is‑‑ it's tough to say a low round, but maybe 5‑under, 5, maybe 6, but they've got some tricky pins on the back nine.   They've got a lot on top of mounds.   They had a lot of those yesterday.   So kind of got to just shoot your approaches into the greens.   You've got to leave it on the right side to have a putt at it.   If you're on the wrong side you're going to be two‑putting.  
   
 Q.   What do you take out of today's round?  
GARTH MULROY:   Stay out of the bunkers.  
   
 Q.   What's the goal for tomorrow?   
GARTH MULROY:   Well, the wind is going to blow I hear.   It's going to be a tough day, a lot of pars, try and sneak in a few birdies.   It's pretty spread‑out field, so you never know if the wind blows and you're able to shoot 2‑ or 3‑under, you can probably jump up a lot of spots.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
GARTH MULROY:   Yeah, I think so.   Take away probably three bad decisions and it's cost me, I think, six shots.   If I could hit three shots over, probably six shots better.   
Other than that I played pretty well, I think.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT