CHEEZ-IT BOWL: OKLAHOMA STATE VS MIAMI
December 28, 2020
Manny Diaz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   You just came into Orlando yesterday.  After this kind of wild up-and-down season, and then just the way things have gone, how does it feel to kind of get to the finish line and be able to get your guys together one last time for the Cheez-It Bowl here tomorrow night?
 MANNY DIAZ:   It felt great last night when we checked into the hotel.  We had that first bowl team meeting and we know our guys aren't going to get the amazing Orlando Bowl experience that we had experienced in this program in the past.
 But just to get here, and I think actually just having sort of feet on the ground in Orlando made it feel more real and you want - you always want the players to feel like the bowl is a reward for all their hard work and as we know in 2020 we don't all get what we want but we make do with what we have and we're very grateful to be here.
 Q. What's your final message to the team going into the game?
 MANNY DIAZ:   We have to be the most excited team to play.  I think that's important in bowl games, probably more important this year than ever before.  And then we have to finish.  This is going to be a very difficult game to win, and it's going to be a grind-it-out affair I think for both teams, and there's going to be back and forth, which you know, in bowl games there always is back and forth; and be prepared to go for 60 minutes because I think that's what it's going to take.
 Q. You said this was going to be kind of a grind of a game for both teams.  What do you see from Oklahoma State's defense that may pose some challenges for your offense or what do you see from your defense that may bode well for your offense?
 MANNY DIAZ:   They create negative plays, which means they are going to leverage you into third-and-long and when they get you into third-and-long they just dominate you.
 We have a lot of respect for what they do on defense.  I think stylistically in a lot of ways, it's how we want to play defense here and we've had success playing defense here and they make you earn everything.  Play a lot of man coverage.  There's not a lot of easy throws.
 So like I said you have to execute, they are going to force you to execute the ball down the field which is -- that's why I think they have had such a successful year because that's hard to do against the talent and skill level that they have.
 Q. You mentioned about how the bowl games have become kind of a stand-alone game, a bridge from one year to the next. Can this year be a stepping stone toward what you're looking forward to in 2021, especially your program, the D'Eriq announcement, gone through maybe finishing the season strong when you guys are not done.  How much more can this game help you moving forward than maybe it has in the past or is it going to be just another bowl game?
 MANNY DIAZ:   I think it could certainly serve as that effect.  I think the last time we came to Orlando, and I think our big win against West Virginia really set us up for a great off-season.  Where we started 10-0 the following here, so I do think there is a kick-on year.
 But every year still exists in its own universe as we've seen.  Obviously we're nothing like the team that played in Shreveport a year ago.  We would like this to sort of be a bridge to next year but we know there will be some key additions coming to our team next year.
 But yeah, this is - there's a way we want to do things and a way we want to establish the program and we're trying to sort of knock down these things that have sort of gotten us in the past and a Bowl win is staring us right in the face.
 Q. We know in 2020, you're only as good as that next test and ahead of this game, is there anyone, whether it be injury or otherwise that you already know is out going into tomorrow's game?  Outside of obviously the guys that opted out but anyone else?
 MANNY DIAZ:   I think other than that, I think the rest of the crew is good to go.
 Q. Do you have any messages?  I know you were asked about your final message to the team.  Do you have any message to the fans in general who have been following you all year?
 MANNY DIAZ:   Yeah, our message is it's been a difficult year to support the team.  We hope we get some Canes fans out in the stadium on Tuesday night.  That would certainly be great for us to have the support of the UM family behind us.
 But it's been a trying year, it just has for everybody.  As you've heard me say before, I just think the relationship with our fan base and our community is so important to who the University of Miami is, and I think one thing we are all looking forward to is we can get on the right side of this pandemic in 2021, you know, coming out and playing in a packed Hard Rock Stadium next year and getting back around our fans.
 This team, they have advanced us a level in our program.  I am proud of them for that.  We haven't done everything the right way, and we respect the expectations that we all have for this program.  But we're building and I think our players see that, and you know, but there's more to come.
 Q. Have you learned anything new about guys who might be returning or I guess you're waiting until after the bowl game, but is there anything we might find out, like pleasant surprises in the near future?
 MANNY DIAZ:   Yeah, I'm not waiting until after the bowl game.  To me, what I've told them, it's on them when they choose to announce to the world - I think there are some pleasant surprises coming, but that's their moment.  We want to celebrate it when they are ready to announce that.
 But like I said, that's really not our call.  That's their individual choice when they want to let everybody know.
 Q. You talked about the importance of the team being excited to play in this Bowl game, but I understand you probably won't know the answer to this until the game kicks off, but do you have a sense of the excitement level of the team right now as you prepare?
 MANNY DIAZ:   Like I said, whenever we talked last, we had some highly spirited practices this past week when it was -- still a week away from kickoff and how are these guys going to go to work.  Just based off the evidence there, you know, I was encouraged with what I saw.
 And like you said, we've got to get out there Tuesday night and see the energy and passion that we bring, but I suspect based off what we've seen so far that our guys will be ready to play.
 Q. From a defensive standpoint for your team, do you think it's more important to be containing the run or the pass?  Last game we saw the defense give up quite a few rushing yards, and Oklahoma State does not have Chuba Hubbard playing, but three very good backs playing, but they also have receivers like Tyler Wallace playing.  So what do you think is more important for your success:  To control the rushing game or the passing?
 MANNY DIAZ:   It always starts with controlling the run.  Just simple, basic football.  It's a lot easier trying to hand the ball off than it is to drop back and throw it; a lot more things can go wrong when you go to throw the ball than run it.
 And then you have a team like Oklahoma State, even despite Hubbard being out, I've very been impressed with the other backs and at times have not seen a dramatic difference, and that's no offense against Hubbard; I think he's an excellent player.
 But I just -- they have other guys that can make big plays happen, as well, and so they want to control the game with their running game and they have an outstanding game and they want to pound the football and run it and control the game.
 So for us, yeah, it is an immense challenge for our run defense and I think they have prepared well.  I think they understand what type of runs they are going to get and they just have to trust their teammate and play -- their responsibility to do their job and do it physically.
 Q. Also wanted check on Jared Harrison-Hunte coming off the injured elbow.  I assume he's coming back for this game and how has he practiced the last few days?
 MANNY DIAZ:   Like I mentioned, he's been through practice for us, how many snaps he can get in we'll sort of find out in terms of how he's feeling on game day.  But he's back in the mix in practice and taking reps so that's been a big boost for us.  Obviously he was a starter for us midway through the season, so he's been a big miss.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT