NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 14, 2013
Michael Block
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Just talk about your round today and the position you're in after the first round.   
MICHAEL BLOCK:   Couldn't ask for a better position.   I had it going.   It was one of those days where the ball was rolling in the right spot and I felt good with my timing and I was pretty nervous on the first hole.   That first hole is pretty intimidating.   But once I dropped that first putt for eagle on the first hole, that really calmed my nerves down.   
It was a lot of fun, the crowd that came out, my family and friends, absolutely outstanding, and the support they gave me.   I actually tried not to look at them too often; I tried to look at the trees so I wouldn't get too nervous.   At the end I just tried to bring it in and not get too nervous.   
It's a fantastic course, it fits my eye and probably the best part of is the greens, since I came out here with the head professional, I had a really good feel for these greens without having to look at them too much.   
So that gives me a lot of confidence, so a lot of people have problems reading the greens, and the poa annua, myself.   I've putted on poa a lot, so I feel confident there.   And as long as I hit my driver down the middle, I feel pretty solid with my irons and usually when I get up and miss the green, popping it in this kikuyu with my wedge, I feel good about it.   
It's going to be a tough next 24 hours until my next tee time, it will be a lot of fun getting a lot of texts and phone calls obviously.   But yeah, it's going to be tough to sleep tonight, guess I'll go to a movie or something; Valentine's night, it will be good.  
   
 Q.   How many times have you played here?  
MICHAEL BLOCK:   One time two years ago in the Pro‑Am.   
   
 Q.   And what's your home course?   
MICHAEL BLOCK: Arroyo Trabucco Golf Course.  
   
 Q.   Where did you go to college?   
MICHAEL BLOCK:   University of Missouri ‑ St.Louis.   
   
 Q.   Does a round like this make you think about a career changes?   
MICHAEL BLOCK:   Not at all, but these guys are fantastic, I'm lucky to be here, and I want to represent the PGA.   I understand that they give us a spot and that means a lot to all of us.   
So to tell you the truth, for a PGA professional to kind of get up in there and not be the last on the leaderboard, that's probably the biggest thing I want to do is represent the PGA, and the PGA TOUR definitely has a reason for that spot.  
   
 Q.   What's your confidence going into tomorrow?  
MICHAEL BLOCK:   It's great.   I don't even think about the cut line.   Of course it will be tough not to but I'll I'm going to really try not to, Patrick and Robert are terrific guys, ease toe to play golf with, feel like I'm playing a skins game at home, and that means a lot.   
A lot of the guys in the practice rounds were super nice to me to get me on the course and they let me play with them which was great and that give me a lot of confidence to go play with these guys.   
So I feel good.   I'm excited about playing the weekend, and that's my goal obviously, so once that happens, I'm going to try to get as high on the leaderboard as I possibly can.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT