WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2009
Sania Mirza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. CIRSTEA/S. Mirza
  6-4, 6-4

 Q. (Indiscernible.) 
 SANIA MIRZA: Yeah, 4 and 4 is always a tough score to lose. It was very close. Even the last game, I had my chances. I just think that if I look back, the only thing I can see that I maybe should have done more was be more aggressive because she was kind of being the aggressive one. 
 It was tough conditions, also, because it was pretty windy out there, and it was not easy to kind of be aggressive, as well. But she was able to do that more than I was, I guess. Especially from one side when we were with the wind, sometimes it would just fly out of your racquet. 
 Yeah, I mean, it was one or two points here or there, like you said. 

 Q. How do you think you played compared to her?
 SANIA MIRZA: Yeah, that's what I'm saying. First of all, I don't know about this unforced error counts to start with. Secondly, she started serving really well, especially the first set. It was just one break.

 Q. I saw that, yeah. 
 SANIA MIRZA: She was serving really big, and I don't know what her first serve percentage was, but it was really high, I think, I'm pretty sure. Then I kind of started to make her play. I wanted to at least get into the rally on her serve, and then she started feeling the pressure a little bit and I got two breaks out of that. 
 I don't know, like you said, about unforced errors. I honestly don't know the count, how they count unforced errors or forced errors.

 Q. I thought there were two critical games there, the fifth in the first and the sixth in the second. 
 SANIA MIRZA: Yeah, in the first set it was that game where I lost my serve and that's what cost me the set basically because we were going absolutely equal until then. And then in the second set, I think both the games, I had a point to go up 4-1 on her serve. I had a point there. And then I lost my serve. 
 I think that was something that hurt me more than -- I could have still been up. It's a different game when you're up 3-2 and different when you're up 4-1. Yeah, you know, that's the way it is. It's just a couple of points here and there. 
 I'm happy the way I'm playing. I've changed my serve a little bit, and obviously that's coming into play, so it's going to take some time before it starts to get better. But I already feel like I am playing much better, I'm moving better.

 Q. Is it difficult playing a friend? 
 SANIA MIRZA: It's not difficult. We are professionals out here, and we're there to do our job. We both -- when we went on court, we went on smiling. We came off and we spoke in the gym. It's not like -- when you're on the court, you are rivals and you're opponents and that's something that we've learned to deal with over the years. 

 Q. (Indiscernible.) 
 SANIA MIRZA: No, he's not here.

 Q. Do you call him before the match? Does he call you? 
 SANIA MIRZA: That's a bit personal.

 Q. Looking back at last year with all the frustrations, the injuries and stuff, how do you think you are now in terms of your confidence level? 
 SANIA MIRZA: Well, in terms of fitness I think I'm pretty much at my best because I'm not really hurting, so to say, in any major way, which is, I think, one of the best things because I've gone through half the year almost and not been injured yet. Last year it was really tough staying home, and being out six to eight months in a year it's not easy to come back. This year I'm just happy to be healthy. 
 In terms of confidence, I feel like I'm hitting the ball really well, and I'm playing well. Especially in Birmingham I had a great week on the grass. I love playing on the grass. And the next season is on the U.S. hard, which is also one of my favorite surfaces because I've always done well there.
 In terms of confidence I'm feeling good. Even today I felt like I could beat her; it was just a few points. And she's 28 in the world. That's the cream of the crop basically. Yeah, I just have doubles and mixed here and then looking forward to the hard court season.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT