NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CARDINALS v BREWERS
October 16, 2011
David Freese
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







St. Louis Cardinals 12
  Milwaukee Brewers 6

 Q. You've grown up outside St. Louis. Is this extra special? Can you talk about what it feels like to do this with the Cardinals?
 DAVID FREESE: Yeah, I think not too many people get a chance to do this in their hometown. And it's an unbelievable feeling. To be a part of this team, this group of guys, this organization, means a lot. 
 Mo went to San Diego, Edmonds kind of wanted to go back out West, and we flip-flopped. It's a dream come true to be a part of this organization.

 Q. What is it about this club that has allowed it to move mountains?
 DAVID FREESE: I think we believe. I think that's what you've got to do in this game. We got a group of guys with some talent, desire, and just a ton of heart. Coming back from 10 and a half or whatever it was, obviously it's a tough battle. But we kept plugging; we kept pushing. The fans deserve that; the organization definitely deserves that, it's kind of surreal that we're here, but this team deserves what we've been rewarded.

 Q. Has too much been made out of that meeting after the Dodgers swept you guys?
 DAVID FREESE: I don't know if too much has been made out of it, but sometimes you've got to do something like that to kind of rally the troops. 
 And Carpenter, one of our leaders, kind of got everybody together, had a little players-only deal. And we kind of just said -- kind of we've got to step it up, no matter how this ends, we've got to play to our talent, to our ability.
 I think when we played Atlanta, we were down 3-1 Friday night, first game. And Kimbrel was pitching, Albert came in and got a screamer down the line and put two runs scored and Kimbrel that changed our season. If we don't win that night, I think maybe things are different.

 Q. How much attention have you paid to the ALCS and in particular the Rangers?
 DAVID FREESE: The Rangers are scary. They're a scary team. They've been doing it all along the last few years. You look at that lineup; you look at that staff, that's going to be a battle. And I think we're a team that can match up with them a little bit. They're confident. We're confident. 
 It's been a tough road. I definitely have been watching the ALCS, for sure. And that's been some good ball over there. That's a dynamite team and we definitely have to be ready for them. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT