SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 13, 2019
Billy Kennedy
Savion Flagg
Jay Jay Chandler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Texas A&M-69, Vanderbilt-52   
THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Texas A&M.  We will begin with an opening statement by Coach Kennedy.   
BILLY KENNEDY: Really proud of our guys for being resilient, continually getting better throughout the year.  Thought we had a great week of practice.  They came here with the mindset that they want to win and they want to dominate teams on the defensive end.  If we can continue to be really good defensively in this tournament, we can go a long ways.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.   
 Q.  Savion, what was working for you tonight?  You were knocking down shots quickly, put together a good night.  
SAVION FLAGG: Everything was really working.  My quickness was I think a mismatch for their team.  Coach is being confident in me, my teammates being confident in me, I feel like it all played a part.   
 Q.  What does it mean to come in here and get a win?  This is a team you beat seven points a week and a half ago.  
JAY JAY CHANDLER: It brought us a lot of confidence getting this first win.  Last year, veteran players, we lost in a crazy buzzer beater for Alabama.  Getting a win, we just going to keep it going, keep the momentum going throughout the tournament.   
SAVION FLAGG: Follow up what Jay Jay said.  Last year got beat in a buzzer-beater.  The following year Vandy beat us.  It's good to get a first-round win, keep this momentum going.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll excuse the student-athletes and continue with questions for Coach Kennedy.   
 Q.  What has been working over the last couple of days?  You mentioned practicing and coming here.  Can that desire to get a win when you hadn't been able to do in a couple years in a row something that can drive this team?  
BILLY KENNEDY: Definitely I think that helps.  I think the fact that we've got a young group.  Those two kids are the only kids that played in the SEC tournament last year.  The rest of our team, it's the first time they played in the tournament.  Those two guys played like veterans.  I was glad to see them grow up some.  The decision making was really good.  The other guys played well defensively.  It's a great team win.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
BILLY KENNEDY: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT