WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2000
Louise Latimer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone. Louise for you.  
 
Q. Do you think you'll look back on this one as the one that got away?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Not really. I mean, obviously it's a very big chance to play somebody
ranked 11 or 12, whatever ranking she is. You don't get that sort of chance every day. But
I didn't really feel that I had had really any chances to win. After the first set, I
thought she came out a lot more positive. She came to the net a bit more. She seemed --
even my first serve, she seemed to be hitting very deep. I just felt a bit on my back foot
the whole time really. 
 
Q. Probably the best match you've played in the three years here. Would you say?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Yeah, I would say so.  
 
Q. Good to watch. A lot you could take away from that?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Yeah. Sort of the first set and a half, near the end again, I mean, I
felt a bit like she was dominating. But I didn't really feel out of place. That's the sort
of player I need to sort of play against more of the time. Hopefully if I can take this
form onto the hard courts, hopefully I can get my ranking up higher.  
 
Q. Did you feel you made one or two too many unforced errors today?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: I think the main areas really were serve and return. I just missed a
few too many first serves second two sets. She was hitting my second serve very well,
really deep. It's very tough to get that back in well and stay in the rally. I mean, she
served pretty well most of the time. When I did have the chance, I didn't quite take them
maybe as well as I could have done. 
 
Q. You got the break back for 3-2 in the third set. If you felt you could have held
your serve then for a 3-All, perhaps it might have gone either way. 
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Yeah. Also in the second set when I broke back to go 2-All, if I could
have held my serve then, as well. I mean, she's not ranked 11 or 12, whatever she is, for
no reason. She's a very good player.  
 
Q. Have you got any explanation for why British women are still struggling to be right
up there? Nobody in the Top 100. What do you think is the problem?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: I'm not entirely sure. I think it probably comes from the lack of
people playing the game really. There's not a big enough base to pick people out from.
Then there's sort of no competition, or there hasn't been. It's getting better. There's a
good group I think of 15- to 17-year-olds who hopefully will come up through. In the past,
there hasn't been the competition with the juniors to sort of fight for places to go on
the trips abroad and things. I think it's improving a lot. Hopefully in the next few
years, we'll see something happening. 
 
Q. You didn't feel battle hardened out there?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: When I was a junior, I didn't have much international experience
because I wasn't really that good when I was a junior. I sort of improved a lot later. I
think it's improving now, with the juniors battling a lot harder with each other. 
 
Q. What would you have to do yourself, how much would you have to change to become a
Top 10 player, do you think?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Well, I mean, my aim is to get inside 100, to start with. When I get
there, then I'll reassess the goals and go from there. I can't say I'm ever going to be a
Top 10 player, so. 
 
Q. Do you think you need a nasty streak? So many of these girls have it. Huber has it
where they say, "Broken you back, ram this next game down your throat." Do you
think you maybe need to be a bit more ruthless, nastier?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: I don't think so. I think I've got fighting spirit. I just think it's a
case she was too good today.  
 
Q. After the disappointment of losing, do you still watch for the rest of the
tournament, cheer on the other Brits?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Yeah. I've got doubles to play, as well. I don't know when that will
be, tomorrow or Friday.  
 
Q. Is the crowd a help or does it put pressure on?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: It's a big help. It's nice to know that they're all supporting you
really. 
 
Q. What were you saying to yourself at the end of the first set?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Sort of try and concentrate on the first game of the second set. I
mean, she came out with some very good returns, and came in I think three times. I think
that was one of the turning points really. She sort of was stamping her authority from the
beginning of that set.  
 
Q. Did you truly believe that you could win the game before it started today?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Yeah. I mean, I thought if I could play well, I was in with a chance.
There's no point in going on court if you think, "I'm going to lose." Might as
well not bother.  
 
Q. Did you get actually physically tired at the end?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: I was getting a bit tired. I mean, I had to fight so hard for every
point that I was winning, which I haven't really sort of played at that level before. I
mean, it's very different to what I've been used to.  
 
Q. Would you sort of watch it on TV? Do you like to watch your own performances?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: I'll probably get the video, if I can somehow. I might watch it. I
probably will watch it, just have a look and see sort of what happened, when. 
 
Q. Were your family watching today?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Yeah. 
 
Q. Parents?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Parents, brother and friends. 
 
Q. Do they get nervous watching you, as well?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: I don't know. I'm playing. 
 
Q. Afterwards do they say, "I can't watch"? 
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: No.  
 
Q. Is there anything in particular that you think can be done to sort of help British
tennis players coming up and through?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Become a role model. There's sort of not -- young girls aren't going to
be saying, "I want to be playing tennis." It's a bit of a Catch-22. To get
somebody playing, you need somebody to sort of look up. To have somebody to look up to,
you need more people playing. I'm not quite sure.  
 
Q. Who did you look up to?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Steffi Graf. 
 
Q. The great thing about Steffi Graf was she was a tremendous athlete. Were you very,
very athletic originally, is that something you've had to work on?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Something I have to work on really. Everybody can always get fitter. I
think there's a lot that I can do to improve. Just when I was growing up, she was winning
everything. 
 
Q. Virtually every match on Court 13. Do you like the court?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: I played three matches on 13. Yeah, I preferred the court today. It was
a bit less green. The grass seemed a bit shorter than on Monday. Less slippery. Felt
comfortable moving.  
 
Q. You defended your points from last year, on the positive side. Now you have to go on
back to challengers and take your game forward from there. How are you now going to look
forward?
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: I mean, if I can continue playing like I did today against the people
ranked lower, then I think I can win a lot more matches at the Challenger level and
hopefully progress higher. 
 
Q. And instead of seeing headlines tomorrow, "Another Brit loser," do you
think it would be beneficial to you and to the British women who are playing instead to
say, "At least she got this far, really gave her all before losing"? 
 
 LOUISE LATIMER: Yeah, it would be nice to see.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT