ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 27, 2017
Bobby Petrino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BOBBY PETRINO: Well, we're coming off a good win against Kent State.  I thought our players came back last week and really practiced well, and that's what we were looking for.  It was a good hot week so it was good for us, and they went out and executed well in the game.  Defensively I liked what we saw, we were very physical and fast.  Offensively we were able to create some big plays and Lamar had a lot of completions.  Really this week back on the practice field has been our focus to really work hard on the practice field.  We're doing some things, ones versus ones, and looking forward to getting back in a game on Saturday.
Q. I was wondering if you could comment on the reports that Tom has been relieved as your athletic director and if you could speak to your experience working with him.
BOBBY PETRINO: I haven't heard anything about that yet.  We've been down here focused on football and working in meetings all day long, so I have no knowledge of that.
Q. What has your experience been working with Tom?
BOBBY PETRINO: I mean, he's been unbelievable, you know, what he's done here at the University and all the facilities for all sports.  You know, you see what we've done with being able to create a competitiveness with every sport on campus.
Q. You mentioned your defense had shown some improvement last week.  Who are some players that have made a difference for you?
BOBBY PETRINO: Yeah, that was great for our experience, get the young players in.  You know, we started Russ Yeast in the secondary and TreSean Smith came in and played really well for us in the secondary.  Our middle linebacker, who's a true freshman, Dorian Etheridge, led us in tackles, and it's fun to see him play.  He's running around and playing very fast and physical, and he's just going to continue to get better for us.
Q. Offensively I know with the year Lamar has had so far, but you have several other weapons that he has at his disposal that are new this year.  Can you talk about them, as well?
BOBBY PETRINO: Well, we're continuing to develop our running game, and Malik Williams has come on strong and Reggie Bonnafon has been able to catch the ball and make plays out of the backfield.  We've got some experience with our true freshman running back in Colin Wilson, who looked very fast and physical, and hopefully we can get him some more work this weekend.  Dez Fitzpatrick is doing a great job at the receiver spot for us.  We were able to get some production out of two freshmen, Corey Reed and Josh Johnson, who are both very talented, and our tight ends keep getting better, so we're trying to develop everybody around Lamar.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT