ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 20, 2017
Bobby Petrino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BOBBY PETRINO: Coming off a tough loss versus a very good Clemson team.  They actually dominated the second half and we were not happy with the way we played but we certainly want to give them all the credit.   
It's been good to get back on the practice field.  We came in and watched a video and put it behind us and moved forward.  I think our guys have done a good job on the practice field.  We look forward to the game with Kent State.   
 Q.  I was watching the game in the first quarter when Lamar was going down the sidelines, he looked like he got hit out of bounds late by a Clemson player.  Was that targeting or why was he not -- the player from Clemson, not penalized 15 yards --  
BOBBY PETRINO: You know, we're not allowed to talk about officiating, so we just have to move on from that.   
 Q.  That's true.  And talk about this week coming up, what do you guys have to do to get better from last week's game?  
BOBBY PETRINO: One thing we're trying to do is practice real well and practice fast.  I liked what I saw last night.  I thought our guys came out and focused and put a lot of energy into it.  Obviously they are hurting a little bit from the loss but they showed good leadership and good pride.  You always fix things on the practice field, so that's the most important thing.   
 Q.  I just wanted to get your thoughts on the call that actually was targeting when Tanner hit Lamar and what you thought about it and if you thought it affected Lamar the rest of the night?  
BOBBY PETRINO: If I thought what?   
 Q.  If you thought that it affected Lamar at all for the rest of the night.  
BOBBY PETRINO: I don't think that it affected him the rest of the night.  I think that we just didn't execute as an offense and do the things that we're supposed to do.  We had some opportunities and we didn't make plays when we had opportunities.  But for the most part, you know, their defense just overpowered us a little bit.   
 Q.  Do you feel like Clemson is better on the defensive front than what you guys saw last year?  
BOBBY PETRINO: Yeah, I mean, that's not really for me to compare the two because I thought they were very good last year, also.  But you know, I thought they do a good job with what they do with their movements and what they do with their linebackers.  They play really well together.  That's the main thing, their coordination between the D-Line and the linebackers and the secondaries is very good.   
 Q.  What has been your message to the team as you do move forward and focus on the rest of the season?  
BOBBY PETRINO: Yeah, I mean, it's a long season.  We've got a lot of games ahead of us.  It's just one game, and the No. 1 thing that we have to do is get back and work hard on the practice field and come out and execute defensively, offensively and special teams.   
But you know, it's just one game.  It's not the last time that our guys on our team or whatever are going to have defeats in life.  You've just got to come back from them and be more determined.   
 Q.  You talked about leadership yesterday in practice and all week, and maybe it's an important week for that.  When you came out Tuesday as you anticipated, were there specific guys that you saw stepping into that role especially yesterday?  
BOBBY PETRINO: Yeah, we started, we practiced Monday night and then we practiced again yesterday.  You know, we've got a lot of guys with a lot of pride.  Guys that have won a lot of games around here.  So it was really just the veterans, and Lamar did a great job of leading.   
I thought some of our offensive linemen did a good job with Geron and Nataeus (ph) defensively.  Chucky is a very good leader for us and I think Traveon and James Hearns are helping out a lot over there, too.   
It's just a matter of coming together as a team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT