ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 16, 2016
Bobby Petrino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BOBBY PETRINO: We're coming off a good win Saturday night.  I was very impressed with the way our defense played, and offensively we came back and played well in the second half and were able to run the football.
Brandon Radcliff really had a big game for us, which was great to see.  This is a really short week for us.  We didn't get into the locker room until 10:45 Saturday night, so to turn around and play Thursday night, we've worked extremely long and hard.
Q. The committee when it's assessing team's resumés does not factor in margin of victory.  What do you think about that approach?
BOBBY PETRINO: Yeah, right thousand I'm not thinking anything about it.  I'm just trying to get ready for our game tomorrow night.
Q. Now that you guys are closer, I wanted to see how you're doing health-wise coming into tomorrow's game.  I wasn't sure how Josh was doing and some of the other guys?
BOBBY PETRINO: Yeah, it looks like we're going to be all right.  We're still working at it, and we've got time to get ready for kickoff.  So we'll see where we're at at kickoff time.
Q. Against Virginia and last week you all got off to a slow start.  Have you been able to put your finger on why that may be and how you guys might want to try and fix that up headed into tomorrow?
BOBBY PETRINO: Yeah, what happened to us last week is we turned the ball over early and that helped the other team have more time of possession and more reps and hurt us from maintaining and being able to drive the football.  So we've got to do a better job taking care of the football, and being consistent and being good on third down.
Q. Is there anything that you guys can take away from the game that you played against Houston last year that should help you going into tomorrow?
BOBBY PETRINO: That was a long time ago, but they're a very attack oriented on defense, and they're running similar schemes than they did last year.  So you kind of look at how they wanted to attack our formations and what they wanted to do.  Then their offense is an offense that can throw the ball and they have the quarterback run.
Scheme-wise there is a lot you can look at and think they'll try to use again this year, and we're kind of a completely different team than we were last year at that time.
Q. So does that familiarity help at all considering the short week?
BOBBY PETRINO: Sure, yeah, that and the fact we worked on them some over the summer.
Q. To follow up on what you said about the attack oriented Houston defense, what exactly do you see on film that would explain why Houston's been so good on defense for the most part this year?
BOBBY PETRINO: Yeah, they do a good job stopping the run, and they're a zone blitz scheme, you know, three, four, zone blitz scheme that brings people from everywhere, they get kind of exotic on third downs and try to pressure you and put a time on you to throw the football.  So it's going to be important for us to be successful on first down and make sure that we're ahead of the sticks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT