UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2016
Bobby Petrino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Louisville - 52, Boston College - 7
BOBBY PETRINO: I was really happy with the way we played.  I think it was a great job by our assistant coaches and our players, how we approached practice this week.  We practiced fast.  We practiced hard.  We had great focus, and it showed up in the game.  Our defense did a great job of getting turnovers and giving the offense short fields, stopping their running game and getting after their quarterback, and offensively I thought we came out of the gate really sharp, had some great throws, great catches, and some explosive runs.
I was happy with our performance.
Q. Bobby, was this a statement game for the selection committee?
BOBBY PETRINO: I hope so.  You know, I feel like we're a really good football team and that we play real well.  We've got great players, and we know how to play the game.  Hopefully it helps us.
Q. Does it make it tougher at all when there's something like that ranking out on Tuesday for them to focus, or did you notice anything?
BOBBY PETRINO: I didn't think it made it tough at all.  I think they're all a little bit upset, and if anything it motivated us, and our practices were really good the rest of the week.
Q. You took Lamar out at the end of the first half, back in in the third.  Were you tempted not to go to him in the second half?
BOBBY PETRINO: No, and we didn't take him out.  He had a cramping in his forearm and caused some numbness in his finger.  You know, I knew it going in before he threw the interception, but I didn't know that's what was causing it.  He just said, something is wrong with my fingers.  They needed to come in and get an IV, and everything is fine.
Q. Was that in his throwing hand?
BOBBY PETRINO: Yeah, it was in his throwing hand.
Q. No lingering effects?
BOBBY PETRINO: I don't think so.  He should be good.  He looked pretty good in the second half.  I was really happy with the one drive where he was really sharp and real accurate, and our receivers and tight end were running and catching the ball.
Q. Your offensive line seemed to do a much better job this week than last week; is that a fair assessment?
BOBBY PETRINO: Yeah, definitely.  I thought he had great time and room, and that's what I like is the room.  Any time you can set the depth of the pocket with our guards and center and then our tackles widen it and give us some width, he's going to be very accurate, and our big plays and our deep throws today, he had lots of time.
Q. Is that a testament to how big the holes were?
BOBBY PETRINO: Yeah, he's pretty quick, so they opened up some holes and he hit it, and I don't think anyone is going to catch him.  But certainly is a credit to our offensive line and how well they blocked.
Q. The lack of penalties today --
BOBBY PETRINO: Woohoo, yeah, we'll take it.  We'll take it, no question about it.  I think we just were focused and played real well.
Q. Have you ever had zero penalties?
BOBBY PETRINO: I don't know.  I don't try to think about penalties too much.
Q. Zero penalties has to be --
BOBBY PETRINO: It might be a record, yeah.  It might be a record.
Q. Since 1979.
BOBBY PETRINO: Well, that's pretty good.  It was a good year anyway.
Q. Was Lamar maybe the most consistent he's been as far as throwing the ball and accuracy, and are you seeing that in practice from him?
BOBBY PETRINO: I don't know.  He's pretty consistent in a lot of games.  He's played some really good games, and I think what we see in practice is how well he's reading and how much he's really focusing on seeing the coverages and the movement of the defense, so his decision making has really gotten better, and he works and pushes himself in practice, and Nick does a great job of making him do it.  But he's an accurate thrower as long as he gets his feet in the right place.
Q. I hate to belabor the selection committee point, but it's going to be a topic the rest of the way.  Do you feel like you have to have games like this?
BOBBY PETRINO: I guess we do.  I guess we do.  It's sad because there's something called sportsmanship, but maybe I made a mistake.  Maybe looking back at it in Florida State, we should have kept all the starters in and scored 80 points and did that.  But I don't understand why it's like that.  I really don't.  And then you look at Clemson and the schedule they beat, the guys in the top 10 that they beat, and what Alabama has done, why isn't Clemson rated No. 1.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT