ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 12, 2014
Bobby Petrino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		  BOBBY PETRINO:   We're coming off a very good win at Boston College.   I was proud of our players and the way we played, particularly in the fourth quarter, to come away with the win.   We got a bye week, so we're enjoying the time to get healthy and get some extra work in on our technique and fundamentals and get into the books, have a good week academically. 
With that, I'll just open up for questions. 

Q.   Obviously, you brought up the bye week and getting healthy.   When you see where this team has come from and taking the 7‑3 record into the bye week, 5‑3 in the ACC, what are some of the things that you really want to key in on besides just getting healthy in this bye week that you think are important for these last couple of games? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   We're working hard on getting better on our technique and fundamentals.   We had more individual practice yesterday than you do on a normal week, preparation just to get back to all your fundamentals.   We're working hard on third down offensively.   We haven't been as efficient on third down as we would like.   So we're working hard on that.   It gives you extra time to work on your red zone offense and defense. 
So those are kind of the things that we focus in on.

Q.   And then, obviously, when you come out of this bye week, you'll have that matchup against Notre Dame.   Even though they're not technically a part of the ACC, their connection to the ACC and the partnership they do have, what can you say about playing a team like them and what that can do not only for your team but for the league as a whole? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   I think it's great, particularly for us.   Here at the University of Louisville we've got some longstanding ties going back to Notre Dame.   It's a very big Catholic community, and Paul Hornung went up there and played.   So there's been a lot of people in the city of Louisville that are really looking forward to this game.   I know we'll have a great crowd up there from Louisville. 
And it's a great challenge, and any time you can go in and play a very good football team, you get really excited about it.

Q.   Can you just talk about, obviously, the news with Will yesterday.   Just as much as he had progressed this year and how difficult now it is to deal with those kinds of situations and not having him the rest of the year. 
BOBBY PETRINO:   First and foremost, you just feel real bad for Will.   He's put so much hard work and effort into it, came back after getting dinged and has really gotten a lot better in the last three games‑‑ his decision making, his accuracy, his competitiveness.   I just feel real bad for him. 
It hurts our team because now we're down to one quarterback with any experience at all, who played really well for us and we're excited about his future, but you do hate to lose Will's leadership.

Q.   And then as a followup, Reggie moving forward, how much he has improved and how different he was the other night when he went into the game as when he was earlier in the year.   And the last thing, any update on Lorenzo headed into this bye week.   Will you get him back this week at all? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   Yeah, Reggie, I thought, really did a great job the other night, and it certainly showed that he had experience early in the year when he was able to start two games and come away with two wins for us.   He came in there and executed our offense, played with really great confidence, starting with that first throw that he had for a touchdown.   It wasn't an easy throw.   It wasn't a big window there, and he stuck it right in there.   So I was really happy with him. 
Lorenzo is making a lot of progress.   We're hopeful that we'll have him for the Notre Dame game.

Q.   Just following up on Will, I mean, did you know how serious it was when he injured it?   Did it seem that serious at the time? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   No, I didn't know.   He stepped and threw the ball and then popped up in the air and hopped around a little bit, played the next play, threw a completion, came off to the sideline and said he felt something in his knee.   They evaluated him at halftime and said he could come back out and warm up and see how it was. 
But then when we found out on Monday, I guess, when we got back.

Q.   As a followup, how much does this just change your development plans for your backup quarterbacks?   How urgent has this made the situation? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   Well, Reggie's played all year long and throughout camp and everything, we knew he'd have an opportunity to play, and we planned on playing him through the year.   So he's ahead of where you just thought he would just be a backup.   So we're happy about that. 
Kyle Bolin will be the No.2 behind him.   Kyle's been in a game this year and played some, but he doesn't have a lot of experience. 

Q.   Hey, Bobby, just curious, is this the same knee that Will has injured previously? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   It is, yes.

Q.   Are you guys expecting him to be able to make a full recovery? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   I think so.   I think he's in great spirits, and he's very positive young man.   He's had meetings with the doctor.   He's going to go home this weekend, spend some time with his family, and then come back up next week and probably have the surgery sometime next week.

Q.   How do you keep a player's spirits and confidence up knowing that this is the third time he's had to go through something like this? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   Will's just a remarkable young man.   He's a guy that's always been very positive.   He's a very spiritual person, and even yesterday had a smile on his face and was communicating and talking with all our players and happy for us on our way out to practice.

Q.   Coach, good morning.   I was just wondering, in those third and one and fourth and one situations, if you had thought about going to Dominique Brown at all.   He was such a big part of the offense earlier in the season.   I was wondering what happened there. 
BOBBY PETRINO:   We have personnel groupings that we use on certain situations.   One of the things that we've been able to do in practice is really work hard on the guys that practice hard and execute hard in practice, get in the game, and then get the reps in the games.

Q.   Is there anything new with James quick's situation at this point? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   Not really.   We're real disappointed in James, and something that he understands that we expect a lot more out of him than that.   Right now we're going to just continue to evaluate it on a daily basis.   





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT