ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 22, 2014
Bobby Petrino
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  BOBBY PETRINO:   We're excited to have a bye week.   We played eight straight games, including a Monday night game and a Friday night game, and I'm proud of the way our players and assistant coaches grinded through it and did a good job in our preparation.   We're looking forward to the challenge that we have with Florida State coming in here next Thursday night, and we'll get back on the practice field here this afternoon and have some fun getting ready for the game.

Q.   So we asked you on Saturday after the game, you know, obviously, you had said you wanted to go back and look at some film, but now that you've had that chance, how would you rate the way the offense performed, especially the offensive line?   And what did you guys take away from that that you can kind of work on this week? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   I thought we improved.   We ran the ball.   We did a good job of running it not only early in the game, but when we had to to win the game.   I thought we improved on our pass protection.   So like I continue to say, we're a work in it progress, but we certainly showed some improvement.

Q.   And did you, from what we were told, it was more nicks than anything else, but are Lorenzo and James ready to practice this week, or where do they stand? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   We're encouraged by where they're at, and all indications are that hopefully they'll be ready for the game.

Q.   Hey, Bobby, what stood out to you most about the way that Todd Grantham has taught this defense to the guys that you inherited? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   I'm sorry.   What was the what?

Q.   What stood out to you the most about the way Coach Grantham has taught his defense to the players you inherited there? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   Todd does a great job of teaching and coaching on the field.   I think our players are doing a really nice job of understanding what our philosophies and what our schemes are, and in doing that, we're able to play real fast and physical.   Todd also does a great job of making sure our players understand what the other team is trying to do against us.

Q.   You guys have been really good down by the goal line.   What's been the key to that success? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   We've been good on first down down there.   We've been able to penetrate and get negative plays and hold people to field goals instead of touchdowns.   It's certainly been a big factor in us going 6‑2.

Q.   What is your general feeling about playing Thursday night games?   I mean, it helps that you have a bye before you face Florida State, but how do you feel about playing those Thursday night games? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   I've always enjoyed them because you do get a little bit of time to prepare for it.   You're able to get a couple of days off where players get to relax and rest.   This is a good time for us because we haven't had any byes.   So they actually get to get away from the facility for a couple days, away from the coaches, and get refreshed and ready to go.   I've always enjoyed playing them because I think the recruits are watching the games on Thursday night because Saturdays, a lot of times they have their own things to do, whether they're playing or watching the video of their Friday night game.   So I thought it's been good for the program.

Q.   From your experience, what's been the benefit for the Florida program?   Maybe in terms of game planning.   Most cases, it's kind of a short week, but you have kind of a difference now with the bye. 
BOBBY PETRINO:   Yeah, I think that's the benefit is having some time to work on your game plan and do a couple things in recruiting and just be able to use that extra time.

Q.   Coach, I just wanted to ask you about Parker.   Playing his first game, he obviously had a huge impact.   He played real well.   How does he come out of that game physically?   
BOBBY PETRINO:   He had a big impact, probably more than I imagined he could.   He did a great job running after the catch and getting open, catching the ball in his hands.   He was sore after the game, obviously.   He hadn't been hit for a long time and been through the things that he did in that game.   But we're real encouraged that the next day he felt better than he ever thought he would.

Q.   And you mentioned a couple other guys.   Just getting your team back healthy, can you talk about just how that impacts you going forward? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   This has been a pretty good grind for us.   We opened the season on a Monday night, played the next Saturday, and then have had zero byes.   So it's been a good grind, but our players have done a nice job of handling it.   We've got an excellent medical staff that does a great job of getting them ready and fresh and prepared each week, but it is good to have a couple days extra to get our bodies and our minds ready to be fresh in the game on Thursday.

Q.   Hey, Bobby, I was hoping to ask you one more thing about Todd Grantham.   I think it's the first time you guys have worked together, and I'm just curious, how do you go about kind of getting to know coaches that you've never worked with before and building a chemistry with a new staff and guys who are working together for the first time? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   I think it's just getting together, whether it's in the meeting rooms, out on the practice field, studying video together, and just getting to know each other.   It's been a lot of fun for me watching Todd and his staff put this defense together because they're all very familiar with it, and Todd's an expert at exactly what we are trying to do on defense, and watching him teach it to the players.   So it's been really a lot of fun.

Q.   Have you guys run a three‑four defense in your past as a head coach? 
BOBBY PETRINO:   Well, forms of it, not exactly what we're doing now, but we used it more as a dime package in the past.   But we had to line up and play against Georgia when Todd first went there.   We spent the entire off‑season basically studying the Dallas Cowboys' defense because he had just came from Dallas to Georgia, and we had two games early in the year that we should win.   So we took a long time to get ready for that game and watched what he did the remainder of that year and the next year.   I thought he did an excellent job. 
I'm excited that he's here with us and doing a great job here.

Q.   I just wanted to check with you here.   Some of the biggest things that you've learned about this Cardinals team, I know you talked a little bit about the defense and getting to know some of the staff that you have and whatnot, but as far as what you've been able to take away from the team as a whole and the success that you've had here in your first year so far. 
BOBBY PETRINO:   Yeah, we've got a group of guys that really enjoy football.   They like preparing for it.   So they like going to meetings.   They enjoy going to practice and competing against each other.   And the thing that I think has really shown up on our team is in the fourth quarter how competitive we are, and we've had to win some games in the fourth quarter, and we've been able to keep our poise and play extremely hard.

Q.   And then as far as looking forward and the game that you have coming up next, I know you're going to have some time to get ready for this one, but what you've been able to see from Florida State and where you feel your team is at in going into a big matchup like this. 
BOBBY PETRINO:   Well, they're a great football team.   They're very strong offensively, defensively, special teams.   It's exciting for us to prepare for a game like this.   This is the type of games you like to play in and prepare for.   So we're going to have a good time in doing it and excited that they're coming into our house to play.   





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT