FEDCUP FINALS: CZECH REPUBLIC v RUSSIA
November 5, 2011
Petr Pala
Lucie Safarova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. KUZNETSOVA/L. Safarova
  6-2, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please, for Czech Captain Petr Pala and Lucie Safarova.

 Q. (Through translation.) Question for Lucie. You began that match when Czech Republic was already 1-0 up in the tie. Do you think it helped you so you played more relaxed or just the other way around? It put additional pressure on you?
 LUCIE SAFAROVA: Well, actually, I didn't catch the beginning of the match very well, so it's always not easy to play first match, especially in the finals, so I didn't play that well in the beginning. 
 Then I started to play better, but Sveta played very well the second set and was not missing, so it was a tough match.

 Q. (Through translation.) Question for the Czech captain. The score is 1-1. Russia leveled the score. What are your impressions on the first match, on the first day? What's your prognosis for the second day?
 CAPTAIN PALA: Well, I don't want to prognose anything for tomorrow. It's quite soon after the last match. I just need to have a little talk with the girls that played, if they feel okay, and just get ready for tomorrow. 
 It's 1-1. Who was supposed to win won today. The No. 1s won in those matches. So difficult to say something interesting for you, because they were 6-2, 6-2, and the second match was 6-2, 6-3. But I think especially the second set was much closer than the score looks.

 Q. (Through translation.) Were you surprised by anything at all, if anything, in the games of respectively Svetlana Kuznetsova and Maria Kirilenko? And will you be making changes as a result for tomorrow? 
 CAPTAIN PALA: Well, if I would be making any changes, I definitely wouldn't tell here. So as I said before, I just need to think about it this evening, to see how the matches went.
 I'm surprised -- not surprised the way the score is now, and I think they all put 100% in the effort, all four girls today. In some stages we could see outstanding tennis.
 The result came like this, and I think tomorrow is going to be much tighter until the end. 

 Q. (Through translation.) Do you expect any substitutions on the Russian side tomorrow?
 CAPTAIN PALA: Well, that's not a question to me but it's probably to Mr. Tarpischev who has to think about it.
 I cannot say if I expect or I don't expect. It's the Russian team, and we have take care of our team. We will find out tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT