CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2011
Ivan Ljubicic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







I. LJUBICIC/M. Youzhny
  7-6, 6-7, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Congratulations on the win. 
 IVAN LJUBICIC: Thank you.

 Q. That was quite a grueling contest, three sets. Give us your thoughts about the way things went out there? And does this sort of take it out of you a little more for the rest of the competition? 
 IVAN LJUBICIC: Well, it has taken out of me a lot, not a little more. But, you know, you just go out there and do whatever it takes to win. You don't really think if you spend too much energy or not. I mean, you really have to do whatever it takes. 
 I felt like if I was feeling the ball a little bit better today I could have won much it more easier, because I felt he was struggling from the beginning. But my shots just were not there, and I had to end up just pushing the ball in and running and trying to make him miss as much as possible. That was the only thing I could do for basically set and a half, too. 
 In the third I kind of let it go a little bit more and tried to take initiative in the rallies here and there. Not too much, but just kind of to change the rhythm a little bit. I guess he was tired as well in the third set, and it worked out well for me. 

 Q. In all your nine meetings against Mr. Youzhny, you lead 8-1. What do you think are the reasons?
 IVAN LJUBICIC: Well, obviously I'm playing better than him. (Laughter.) No, but sometimes you have -- I mean, this was a joke, the first part.
 Sometimes you have players that suit you quite well, and sometimes you have those that you don't like at all. For some reason, Mikhail obviously doesn't like to play me and this is the scoreline.
 But we had some tough battles, so the scoreline could have been different, you know, with just couple points here and there. But the fact is that it is 8-1 for me. 
 And, you know, I guess I could see it from the beginning that he was not sure how to play against me, and that plays in my advantage from the beginning a little bit. I'm definitely every time when I play him trying to take advantage out of it. 

 Q. (Through translation.) First of all, I would like to extend my congratulations on your win. As a veteran on the tour, you have participated in many big tournaments, and particularly the Grand Slam competitions. What do you think is the major difference between those big tournaments like a Grand Slam from China Open? 
 IVAN LJUBICIC: Well, the main difference is that it's a Grand Slam and this is not. Facility-wise, this is big. There are a lot of courts, and the facilities are here to be a bigger tournament.
 The fact is that we have very limited number of big tournaments that it's very difficult to be one of. I'm sure that the China Open Beijing would love to have bigger tournament like Masters 1000 or hopefully bigger than that.
 But it's really schedule-wise difficult to become part of it once you're not, you know. But I really appreciate the fact that Beijing and China Open are trying as much as they can to make us feel like it is a bigger tournament than it actually is. 

 Q. I believe that you've been to China many times. Have you noticed that the girls of tennis sport in China, like the popularity among the spectators and maybe the girls, the level of Chinese tennis players as well? And do you have any suggestions for like organizations organizing tennis matches in tennis, like China Open?
 IVAN LJUBICIC: Well, first of all, honestly, the number in spectators, I would love to see that it's bigger. You know, unfortunately often here we play in front of nobody, which is not really nice. But that's the way it is.
 I'm really unsure, and I cannot give you any advices what is needed to be done in order to make it different. It's really, really difficult question.
 But I guess if we have these big tournaments in China, like we had Masters Cup in Shanghai and now it's Masters 1000 in Shanghai and 500 here in Beijing, there is definitely need for this kind of big tournaments here in China.
 Again, I really would like to see more people watching matches. As I said, here we have two huge stadium plus the Moon Court, which is also another big court. So there is the room for a lot of people to come here. Unfortunately that's not the case. But I really hope it's going to be different in the future.
 Regarding Chinese players, I think that women's tennis is, of course, as good as any other country. I mean, Li Na won French Open, played the final of Australian Open, and there are a lot other good female players.
 On the main side of course it takes a little bit longer. There is some talent. I saw Zhang who I played last in Shanghai who gave me a lot of trouble, I feel he's a talent. But the difference between being a talent and being a great player, it's quite big.
 So there is really need to put a lot work in there, and hopefully Chinese tennis will get a male player, I mean, world class level, very, very soon. That would definitely help to increase the popularity of the sport in China. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT