AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2006
Ivan Ljubicic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  I just want to ask about the Davis Cup, just what life has been like since winning the Davis Cup?

IVAN LJUBICIC:  Busy.  Yeah, that's the major difference.  No, I'm kidding.  It's fantastic, obviously.  Everybody's looking at us different way.  Everybody's to congratulate us for what we achieved.  It's great, you have to say.  But, yes, it is busy also.  Everybody want piece of us.  Everybody want, you know, to hear how it was.  But, you know, I'm not tired saying it every time because I think it is part of the history and we are very happy to be part of it. 

Q.  How did you handle it?  How have you adapted to the changes sort of being put on you?

IVAN LJUBICIC:  What kind of changes? 

Q.  Personally.  Just the adulation. 

IVAN LJUBICIC:  No, everything, it's pretty much the same except it's heavier, you know.  Even before, people was congratulating me for something, but now it's getting more and more, which is good.  Also before we did some interviews, but now it's more and more.  Everything, it's kind of the same but, you know, more stuff.  Less free time.  Less time for rest.  But that's, you know, what we were practicing for.  That's what we were waiting for all our lives. 

Q.  What did it teach you the most about yourself?  What did you get out of it the most, that pressure-cooker atmosphere? 

IVAN LJUBICIC:  Yeah, well, the whole year was fantastic.  To finish it off with a win in Davis Cup, it's great.  It's really difficult to point one moment or one win or one point.  It's just the whole 2005 was fantastic me personally, and I think also as a team.  I know that it's only one time, first time, and we understand that.  But, you know, it's still we gonna try to go for more. 

Q.  Was it difficult being so late in the year, which it always is, then preparing for the Grand Slams?

IVAN LJUBICIC:  Yes, it was difficult because every other year in my life I had at least five or six weeks of practice and this year I had two.  But that's sweet, sweet kind of problem you're having.  It's because you played well, it's because you had something to play for in December.  That's fantastic.  No complaints, nothing.  But this season is gonna be slightly different than 2005.  Obviously, I'm gonna have to have some breaks in the middle of the year maybe to have few weeks off, try to, you know, prepare next few weeks.  It's gonna be little different but, again, I wouldn't mind to have more of these years.

Q.  After having such a wonderful 2005 personally, what do you prefer, do you prefer to be the hunter or the hunted? 

IVAN LJUBICIC:  Well, I think hunted.  It means that you are on top.  You are the one who is leading the things.  Everybody want -- have to beat you.  Everybody wants to beat you.  That's where I really enjoying this moments.  You know, going on court, 95% of the times you are the favorite one and you know that if you play well you gonna win the match.  That's very positive.  But I didn't mind even beating big guys when I was lower-ranked, as you probably know.  So for me it is different situation, but I like the situation, no question about that. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT