MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 13, 2009
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. HEWITT/J. Benneteau
  5-7, 6-2, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. Pretty good work out.
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, it was. You know, it was always going to be tough in the first sort of tournament match back for a while.
 Yeah, trying to get into the routine for a while of getting out there again and on the big points being able to do what you want and what you're used to doing, I guess. I obviously got better as the match went on.
 Plus, it was really tough conditions out there for both players. It was swirling a lot out there. Probably one of the windier days that I've actually had on that center court where I sort of couldn't tell where the breeze was coming from the whole time.

 Q. You seem to be more attacking. Has that been something you've been working on with Rochey?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: A little bit. You always want to do as much as possible. A lot depends on the opponent you're playing and how much they let you do it too. Felt like there was quite a few short balls out there, especially in the first set, that I probably didn't attack and step up to the line as much as I probably could have.
 I missed a couple of those opportunities in the first set. Probably the second and third set I tried to do it a little bit more and put more pressure on him. Felt like with the breeze today as well it was important to try and take the ascendency of the point and dictate as much as possible.
 If you came in on a pretty good approach shot out there, doesn't matter how good a passer you are out there, it was going to be tough to hit a good pass with someone sitting on the net.
 I tried to take my chances out there a couple times. A lot of the time it worked really well for me. I came up with some really good volleys.
 Yeah, I missed a couple, but that's always going to happen, too.

 Q. How's your hip feeling?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Felt good today. Obviously tested out another three-setter, and played a couple tough three-setters last week and pulled up pretty well. Hopefully will pull up well again tomorrow.

 Q. Next you've got Janko Tipsarevic. Your thoughts on him?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: We've had some tough matches in the past. I've at least beaten him a couple times. Lost to him once. Last time we played I reckon it was Davis Cup on an extremely slow clay court in Serbia. Going to be a lot different conditions to that match.
 Yeah, he's a great ball-striker. One of the best ball-strikers going around. Very similar to Djokovic in that sense. He moves extremely well, but you got to hang in there with him and make him play that extra shot.
 Hopefully I can sort of weather the storm enough against him out there.

 Q. Speaking of hanging in there, the two matches in Perth and here, dropping the first set, that might not have been a bad thing for you. Is that the way you look at it?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah. I would have liked to have won in straight today. For sure that's probably the No. 1 positive to come out of winning a three-set match. Gives the body a tougher time.
 You're going to have to win at least three sets to win any match in Melbourne. You got to be prepared to do that, and fit and strong enough to do that, so...

 Q. When will the questions about your hip stop?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Don't know.

 Q. Are you prepared for that?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: You tell me.

 Q. If you had to rate it at one to ten at the moment, how do you see your body and form?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Hard to say at the moment. You know, in practice I'm hitting the ball really well. It's a matter of taking that into the match court though. You can't expect miracles when haven't played for nearly four and a half, five months on the tour.
 It's not easy to come out in match situations and just pick it up straightaway. Doesn't matter how good you are. It's a matter of getting that confidence. The more matches, yeah, that will come back.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT