BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 1, 2017
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A flash interview with:   
LLEYTON HEWITT   
 Q.  How much did that impress you?  
LLEYTON HEWITT: No, it's been good.  I've done a lot of work over the summer with Alex.  He's a great young kid.  A 17-year-old playing a young American 18-year-old, pretty good tennis out there.  Three extremely tough sets in really tough conditions.   
I'm just rapt for Alex.  He gets an opportunity now to play in a main draw of an ATP Tour event.  What a way to start the new year.   
 Q.  He's in the main draw.  Does he have the ability to keep going?  
LLEYTON HEWITT: Oh, he has a lot of ability, he wants to work hard for, puts in a lot of hard hours.  The training that he's done November/December, coming in here, that's the main reason he was able to win today and he was able to back it up from yesterday.   
He's got a bright future.  (Indiscernible) Wimbledon last year, as well.  There's still a lot of areas of his game we can work on, but, yeah, he's a nice kid.   
 Q.  What about the rest of our men going into the summer of tennis?  We have Tomic up against Ferrer.  Going to be a tough one for him here.  
LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, really a tough match for Bernie.  He likes playing here in Brisbane, likes the conditions of Pat Rafter Arena.  I think it suits him here.  He's going to have to take it to Ferrer, though, right from the start.   
Ferrer is a workhorse out there.  He will make him earn it.  If Bernie can come out and can dictate play from the start, then he's got a good shot.  That's a great matchup.   
 Q.  And across the other side of the country, Kyrgios...  
LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, Nick is traveling really well.  He played extremely well in the IPTL in December, good matches.  (Indiscernible.)  He's been able to come in fresh, played well at the Hopman Cup.  I think that court and the conditions really suit him, obviously going there as the defending champion.   
He will be looking to get at least three, maybe four really tough matches this week before heading down to Melbourne.   
 Q.  Finally, how are we heading into the first Grand Slam?  
LLEYTON HEWITT: Well, we're looking good.  Obviously Nick is going to be seeded (indiscernible) and Bernie is going to be seeded, as well.  Especially Nick, top 16 seeds (indiscernible) top guys in the second week.  We don't take any matches for granted.  They both really do well on the big stage and play well at the Australian Open.  But, yeah, there is still a lot of work to be done.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT