WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 14, 2007
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Pretty easy, huh?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  Yeah, it was a tough one.  Another long match in the heat.  But that's what you need heading into a Grand Slam.  You know, three-set matches where you finish in the tiebreak is never easy.   
 It's a little bit of a toss of the coin in the end.  You got to be able to play some big points well in the tiebreak, and I felt like I was able to do that today.   
  
  Q.  The double faults I'm sure you wish you could take some of those back.   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  Yeah, just didn't quite hit the spots on a couple of them.  I hit a bad double fault when I was up 3-1 in the tiebreak.  Apart from that I played pretty good tiebreak breaker.   
 That was my only real unforced error in the breaker.  I would have liked to have had that back at the time, but I focused and got on with it and got out of it.   
  
  Q.  Where are you with your game now?  Are you satisfied?  How satisfied are you with where you are right now?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  I have some good days where I feel like I'm hitting the ball well.  I guess Federer last week I felt like the ball striking in that match was pretty good by both of us.  There was only a few points here and there.   
 I had a lot of breakpoint opportunities and he came out and served extremely well.  If I could have taken a few of those chances it could be been different.  Yeah, since Hamburg I've been playing pretty well, making the semis there.  The guys that I lost to in other tournaments since then have had to play extremely well to beat me.   
  
  Q.  Were you just relieved when you hit that volley winner and the match was over?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  Absolutely.  6-5 in the tiebreak, I think so.   
  
  Q.  What were you thinking as you saw that opportunity for that winner on match point?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  Don't miss it.  I played a good point.  I structured the point well.  I had him moving, but he's a dangerous guy.  I came in a couple times on his backhand pass earlier in the match and he had a couple of big winners up the line when I came in on pretty good approaches, so I was a little bit weary of that.   
 I just hit enough on the backhand cross-court approach shot that he couldn't quite get a good hit on it.  So you just have to basically get it back in court and I took the initiative and put the volley away.   
  
  Q.  Did you notice your shirt was similar to the linesmen's?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  Yeah.  It was last year as well.   
  
  Q.  When you hit the ball out of the stadium, understandably excited, how excited were you?  This is an early round match when you look back on things.   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  It was probably a bit more relief to get out of it and get to the next round.  Obviously had to save a lot breakpoints at the end of third set there and came up with some big serves and got out of a few tough situations.  I was relieved it get out of it against a dangerous opponent.   
  
  Q.  How much does is that help you for the later rounds, surviving a third-set tiebreaker?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  As long as it doesn't hurt you physically.  I have to play another guy tomorrow, Gasquet, who gets a bye.  That can either help or hinder you.  So it really depends on how I guess my body pulls up.   
 I feel physically fine at the moment and hopefully it won't be a problem.  I got a match under my belt, so hopefully it'll help me.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT