ROGERS MASTERS
August 9, 2006
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  Sorry to see the injury.  When did it start?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  I felt it last week in Washington a little bit.  I've been getting treatment every day since I lost in Washington.  Last night just flared up again.  I could hardly walk this morning when I got out of bed.   
  
  Q.  Why did it start in Washington?  Was it just the pressure of play?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  I've got no idea.  Don't know.  You know, still not a hundred percent sure how bad it is, what sort of has to happen from here.   
  
  Q.  Do you know precisely what the injury is?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  Not precisely.  Yeah, it's got to do with my knee, just under the kneecap.   
  
  Q.  You had a very long, hard match last night.  The fact that it was so late, you had to play again relatively soon, was that part of the problem?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  A little bit.  You know, even having one day off, I don't think it was -- from the way it felt this morning when I woke up, I think I caused a little more damage in last night's match.   
  
  Q.  During last night's match?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  Yeah.  I don't think it was probably ever going to heal in time to get through today's match.   
  
  Q.  I know there's perhaps a little bit of history between you and the guy you played last night (Chela).  Did you consider retiring last night, for instance, or would you have?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  Went through my mind how I was feeling out there.  I kept fighting pretty hard, yeah.   
 Yeah, hopefully it's not too bad.  You know, it definitely got worse after last night's win.  You never know.  You can wake up the next day and it can be gone.   
 I fought through last night.  It was 10 times worse going on the court today than it was going on the court yesterday.   
  
  Q.  Is it too soon to say how you'll be for next week?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  Yeah, got no idea just yet.  Wait and see.   
  
  Q.  US Open isn't far away.  That's got special memories for you.   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  Yeah, absolutely.  It's a great event to be a part of.  Hopefully I will be a part of it.   
  
  Q.  Your prime concern is to make sure you're fit for that?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  Absolutely.  That's the major.  This isn't ideal, but when these things pop up, you've got to look at ways to what you've got to do best now to prepare yourself as well as possible in the circumstances for the Grand Slams.  That's obviously the US Open in two and a half weeks.   
  
  Q.  What have you got to do now?  Do you have to go to hospital?   
 LLEYTON HEWITT:  No, it's more just treatment and ice.  I'll maybe have a scan in the next couple days if it's not improving.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT