U.S. OPEN
August 27, 2014
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  T. BERDYCH/L. Hewitt  6-3, 6-4, 6-3   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Was it disappointing to sort of hang on in the second set with 4-1-up?  LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, that was obviously my small chance out there if I could have tried to keep that lead obviously.  Then I had 4-3 and then three break points I think.  Only got one look at a second serve. Yeah, I was playing down the better end of that game as well.  Yeah, if I could have broken again and then given myself a chance to serve for the second set, at least put a more doubt in his mind.   Q.  How disappointed are you considering how you kind of came into the tournament?  Obviously this is a tough match to play; he's playing so well.  LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, well, it was always going to be a tough match.  So, you know, I felt like during the week I was hitting the ball reasonably well.  I was pretty happy how I was moving out on the court.  I had some good practices with quality players. I was ready for the match today, but, you know, in the end he was just too good.   Q.  What is it that he does so well?  What would you say are his greatest strengths as a player?  LLEYTON HEWITT: Well, he's got very easy power.  You know, his one-two punch is exceptional.  He has a massive forehand. You know, when I was playing down the end against the breeze today it was really hard to dictate him even if I felt I had him off balance.  I always felt he had that extra chance to get back in the point.  Yeah, I felt like I was always on the defense from that end.   Q.  Obviously Davis Cup is now your next big focus.  LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah.  That's the week after here, so... Yeah, that's obviously the main goal, to try to get -- stay in the World Group.  We've got a good opportunity to consolidate our spot in the World Group. Hopefully do that.   Q.  Are you excited about the team going forward?  Not just this year but next year given the depth in the men's?  LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, absolutely.  Last couple of years are starting to look better obviously.  Bernie has played well in Davis Cup; he's handled the situation well. Yeah, I think Nick can handle the big stage obviously well, as well. Yeah, that's really important.  Not only next year but the next hopefully eight, ten years.   Q.  Does that make it easier for you to sort of want to play on for the long term or make it easier to...  LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, probably a bit of both.  Yeah.  Yeah, it was always going to be hard any time you want to stop, but I'd prefer 'em to be in good shape rather than playing in the minor leagues every year in Davis Cup. Yeah, that's a positive.  Whenever I do stop, I think it's in good hands.   Q.  Do you think we'll see you here next week?  LLEYTON HEWITT: Don't know.  Get that asked every week.   Q.  Are you going to stick around?  LLEYTON HEWITT: Don't know.  I haven't even thought about it.  I'll be probably getting onto grass as soon as possible, I would say.   Q.  (Indiscernible.)  LLEYTON HEWITT: At this stage I will be playing the Asian swing and I'll take it from there.   Q.  What do you hope will be your future at the US Open looking forward?  LLEYTON HEWITT: Don't know.  I really don't know.  Just wait and see.   Q.  You have had this incredible career.  Early win right off the bat.  Orange juice boy for Davis Cup.  Always traveling the circuit and overcoming injuries, seeing the world.  What's been the best part for Lleyton Hewitt as a tennis professional all these years?  LLEYTON HEWITT: Obviously, you know, just living the dream, I guess.  You grow up.  Just wanted to, you know, be able to play the majors and play Davis Cup for Australia. I have been fortunate to do it for an awfully long time.   Q.  Sweetest part of your dream has been what?  LLEYTON HEWITT: I don't know.  It's not just one thing.  A lot of things.   Q.  Combination of Davis Cup and...  LLEYTON HEWITT: Obviously the three biggest things that, you know, winning Davis Cup and winning a Grand Slam and getting to No. 1.   Q.  Obviously your ranking is going to take a bit of a hit.  Is your hope now to sort of try and work on getting to top seeding for the Aussie Open?  LLEYTON HEWITT: Not really, no.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT