WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 7, 2002
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  Not much of a workout today?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT: No, I still don't know where my game is.  Obviously it would have been a lot nicer to have won properly, I guess, but through the round of 16 and can't complain, I guess.  Big tournament like this, but obviously matches are only going to get tougher and tougher from now on. 
 
Q.  Did you have an idea that that might happen?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT: I had no idea.  Obviously he was sort of trying to hit  a lot of winners out there and it wasn't really his style of game.  Early on, after a couple games, I sort of thought something probably was not right, but it wasn't 'til he called the trainer then they said he is going to try and keep playing, but they are not sure.  He came out and served two aces, I thought he was going to get a bit of a game. 
 
Q.  A little worrisome that you are not being able to get a read on where your game is since you really don't play at the beginning of the summer?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT: Maybe nice to lose a few more games, I guess, but I feel like I am hitting the ball well enough, and I am still in the tournament.  Hopefully I am going to get some pretty tough matches from -- I am sure I am going to in the next few days.  It's tough, especially it's not quite as hot as it has been here, but if it was hotter than would it have been probably tougher as well, playing back-to-back - started singles, playing doubles Monday, singles Tuesday, I am still in the doubles, so I have played a lot of matches.  At the moment I am pretty happy that I am still in the doubles to get some more hitting. 
 
Q.  Did you even break a sweat?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT: I didn't have to move much.  
 
Q.  Have you play any golf since you've been here?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT: Since I have been here, yeah, I arrived Wednesday after I lost in Toronto Monday night, and yeah, I played a couple of rounds, I think since I have been here, but I have been trying to practice as much as possible, as well.  Only started practicing a couple of days before I went to Toronto, so I wasn't expecting great results there and I have never actually done well in Canada for some reason.  So I try to put that behind me as soon as possible and sort of move on and I really like this tournament and so far it's nice I made a semifinal last year and hopefully can go at least that this year.  
 
Q.  Did you revolve your problem yesterday with the interview?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT: No, nothing has been resolved.  Tried to contact Mark Miles a lot of times yesterday and he's in Cincinnati, but for some reason he doesn't answer his phone, so I am not sure. 
 
Q.  Are you going to make an appeal to the decision  ---
 
LLEYTON HEWITT: For sure. 
 
Q.  -- of the fine?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, and I planned to win it. 
 
Q.  Who will judge that?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT: I have got no idea.  I am not even worrying about it at the moment. 
 
Q.  Did you talk about that with other players?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT: I haven't spoken about it at all, no. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT