WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2014
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. HEWITT/M. Przysiezny
  6/2, 6/7, 6/7, 6/1, 6/4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Obviously a very tough second set.   Happy the way you went after that?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah.   You know, it was good obviously after having, yeah, ups and downs in the second set, mentally getting back on at the start of the third was really important.   
He sort of had a little bit of a lapse and I started getting onto his serve again.   Yeah, that was kind of the turning point after that.   
The first set, I was playing great the first set.   I had a couple of small opportunities the start of the second set.   You know, he picked up his game.   He hit his forehand a lot better, especially cross‑court.   He served a lot better through that second set.   
   
 Q.   How did you feel out there fitness‑wise?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Fitness‑wise I felt fine.   Not a worry.   I think it was just over three hours.   But felt I could have kept going, so...   
   
 Q.   What do you need to do against Janowicz next match?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, obviously weather the storm out there.   We all saw the last couple of years here he's played extremely well.   Yeah, he's going to be up and down, though, so I got to go out there, play my game, keep a good level the whole time, especially be able to sort of keep that level for four or five sets, not let it drop off.   When I get those opportunities, I've got to take them.   
But, you know, it's going to be a tough match.  
   
 Q.   Was it a patience game when you come up with someone like him?   Do you have to bide your time?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, a little bit.   Then again, I've got to keep trying to build pressure as well the whole time.   I felt like I did that really well today.   
Nearly every one of the Przysiezny service games, I was in.   30‑All, deuce games.   That pressure keeps building, and then occasionally you'll get a double‑fault or something at a crucial stage when it gets a little tighter.   
   
 Q.   This is a very special place for you.   Is it days like this that keep you going?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Absolutely.   This is what I still play for.   You do all the hard work to come back and play in places like this.   You don't get sick of coming out here and playing at Wimbledon.   
   
 Q.   There's seven Australians into the second round, the most since '99.   Thoughts on that?   
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, it's good.   Obviously really happy some of the young boys, Sav obviously winning his first tour match at a Grand Slam, Wimbledon, fantastic, especially after saving a match point in his last round of quallies, as well.   Really happy for him.   
Yeah, Bernie did his job yesterday.   
But Marinko, he won his first match at Wimbledon, which is huge for him.   Moving forward, he's a late developer.   He beat a quality player in Verdasco.   Been some good wins.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of someone like Nick Kyrgios going through?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I've actually never seen Nick play on grass.   I can't really comment a lot.   He played the Nottingham challengers where I was at Queen's, and then I didn't see him, he got the wild card, didn't play quallies.   
He's got a game that I'm sure over time could definitely get better and suited to grass.   He returns serve pretty well for a big guy.   He's obviously got a big ball himself.   
It's good for him that he got through today.   
   
 Q.   There's a bit of conjecture around it might be your last time at Wimbledon.   Are you approaching this in any way like it could be your last or not?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I reckon I've said that last five or six years.   We'll just go out there and play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT