AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 11, 2014
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. LOPEZ/L. Hewitt
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on that?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, I played a bit of a loose game the second game of the match.   Then, yeah, he served really well the whole match.   He had a lot better rhythm today than he did yesterday in his first‑round match.   
Yeah, just couldn't quite get enough, 15‑30 and Love‑30, put pressure on his service games, and, yeah, he hit his spots really well.   
   
 Q.   Not a typical grass court match, somebody serving like that?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah.   Yeah, it was just frustrating.   I felt if I could have got into the first set, put a bit of pressure on him, but yeah, the sun was just in an awkward spot the first service game for me down that other end, the far end.   
Just hit two doubles.   He came up with a really good pass during that game, as well.   That just sort of put me behind the 8‑ball for the rest of that first set.   
Then in the second set, I felt like I was doing enough and then he got a little bit lucky on a couple of balls that didn't really bounce for me to lose serve there at 3‑All in the second.  
Yeah, that is grass court tennis, but yeah, he played well though today.  
   
 Q.   Where does this leave you with your Wimbledon prep?   Couple of weeks now for some training?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, just keep hitting balls most days.   I feel like for the most part my rhythm is pretty good.   
So, yeah, you know, just try and find my rhythm on my serve a little bit more and obviously return of serves.   I didn't feel like I did a lot wrong out there with the returns today.   He just served too well.  
   
 Q.   A technical question about your serves, when you go into the match do you have a kind of strategy?   Do you kind of stick to that game plan when it comes to serves or did you mix it up today?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   You always have some kind of strategy before you go out there, but yeah, that obviously changes depending on how well your opponent is playing and what shots are working out there during the match.   
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible.)  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Not really.   It was a little different.  
   
 Q.   Playing left‑handers on grass, is there a challenge to that as opposed to a regulation right‑hander?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, it can be difficult, you know, if they serve well and mix their serve up.   Feliciano has got one of the better serves in the game.   It's a smooth motion.   Doesn't really break down.   And plus, he can hit all the spots as well which makes it tough.  
Yeah, he was hitting his slider really well, you know, with the breeze pushing it one way as well, but then, yeah, when I'd edge over to that side, he actually hit the bomb down the middle pretty well on the outside, as well.   You know, sort of waiting for a few more second serves and it just didn't come today.  
   
 Q.   Just your thoughts on the tournament and your great successes here over so many years.   
LLEYTON HEWITT:   It's one of my favorite tournaments.   I love coming back here, and, yeah, it's always nice.   I had a really good run last year, as well.   You always have good memories to come back to places where you played well.  
   
 Q.   What sort of mindset will you take into Wimbledon?   You spoke in Paris about feeling like you wanted to give trouble to the big guys on any given day.   
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, I still feel comfortable on this surface.   Yeah, just, you know, play some practice sets over the next week and a half and just get more and more comfortable with the grass.   Then over five sets, anything can happen.   
   
 Q.   Will you be breaking records and come back next year as the 16th year?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Who knows?   Don't know.  
   
 Q.   It's amazing you have made it to so many tournaments here.   
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, I have enjoyed coming back here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT