TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 30, 2001
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 

Q.  That point at 5-4, 30-15 when he hit the forehand.  That was obviously pretty crucial in the end result.
 
LLEYTON HEWITT:  Yeah, in some ways you can look at it as being an extremely unlucky.  Probably that shot is going to happen one in a million.  After that, whether it was just that shot or, you know getting back to 30-All then having breakpoint there, he definitely raised his game.  You got to hand it to him because he was a bit scratchy there.  I didn't take my opportunity.  I could have maybe broken  twice in that set and won it 6-3.  I had a lot of chance; had a lot of deuce points the game before.  Didn't take it.  In the second set one of those matches I didn't take my opportunities.  I felt like I had breakpoints every second service game of his.  I just couldn't get the big points out there today.  There is always next time. 
 

Q.  That overhead was a real winner mid-court as I recall.  Have you ever had anyone in a big match hit an outright winner off a straightforward overhead like that?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT:  I don't know if it was that straightforward.  It was very blustery out there.  Obviously, you know, as I said, one in a million shot.  I've definitely had guys who hit better shots than that.  But that is the game of tennis.  He guessed one way and just right at that time he was there and he just had a swing and it went bulleting past me.  Not much I can do about it. 
 

Q.  When you say guys have had better shots off of overheads  --
 
LLEYTON HEWITT:  Off of other shots, I suppose, but it is, I don't know, it is a great shot.  But there is a little luck involved. 
 

Q.  You have been pleased with your form here looking forward to next week?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT:  Yeah, I haven't had time to reflect on it, but it has been a good week.  To backup another semifinal, obviously right at the moment I am a bit disappointed, just because I felt like this was a big opportunity for me.  I don't think I played my best tennis out there tonight.  Definitely going have to play a lot better if we are going to get over Brazil next week. 
 

Q.  You seem to be playing better every week that you play.  Since you had a good week and now you are going into Brazil to play Davis Cup and what is your expectation of going into Brazil?   Have you ever been there?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT:  No never been to South America.  I am looking forward to it.  It is going to be a challenge and our team likes challenges and hard challenges and this is definitely going to be one of the hardest that we have had to deal with.  We are playing the best clay court player in the world in his home town. It is going to be tough.  So I am expecting, you know, every bit as hard as a Davis Cup final that is for sure. 
 

Q.  How much harder do you think a crowd can be than Barcelona?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT:  Don't know.  Soon find out.  
 

Q.  He is developing a bit of a reputation as someone when he is matchpoint down, breakpoint down seems to be able to pull out the big shots.  When you are playing a guy like that you are aware of that reputation, does that prey on your mind at all?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT:  Not really.  No.  Of course I knew that he is probably lucky to get where he had got  -- there is probably a couple of crucial matches, I think, for sure against Andrew Ilie in the first round, I think it was -- Andrew got ripped off on a line call as well which  -- so yeah, he is probably lucky to be where he has got, but he is that kind of player, very flashy, he will come up with a big shot, a big single forehand shot where you are not expecting that because he uses double off both sides.  But that is his game and sooner or later he is going to win some close matches but then he is probably going to lose some as well. 
 

Q.  Is his game  even tougher under lights, his game?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT:  No, I wouldn't say so.  Very heavy out there tonight.  The balls are very heavy. 
 

Q.  You have been getting to the net a lot more lately, haven't you?
 
LLEYTON HEWITT:  A little bit now and then.  It is doing  -- it's area of my game that I have got to work on that is for sure. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT