SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 22, 2014
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/L. Hewitt
  6‑1, 6‑3 
   
 Q. You get into the match and he's totally on fire for at least a set and a half.   What do you do in that situation?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   It was tough.   I was sort of caught between trying to be too aggressive and being to passive and then obviously leaving the ball hanging for him to obviously dictate play, especially with his forehand.  
Yeah, he has such good footwork getting around and using his off‑forehand.   
Yeah, even when I felt like I was able to push him around he was able to find a way to get back in the point.  
   
 Q.   How frustrating was it getting that he was coming up with some of those inside out forehand crosscourt winners that he was coming up with?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Oh, he hit the ball really clean right from the start.   Yeah, if I could of held one of my first couple service games and got my teeth into the match a bit, but   that's why he's the best player.  
   
 Q.   Crowd was trying to encourage you.   
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah.   I hung in there.   Did everything I could.   He was too good.  
   
 Q.   A situation like that, does it get do demoralizing in the middle of a match that you have to really focus even harder than you normally do?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Not really.   Yeah, you got to try and think through it as much as possible and try and come up with some kind of game plan to get yourself back in it.  
I was really just trying to take care of my service games as much as possible.   He played his service games really well.  
   
 Q.   What do you do from here?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Couple weeks off and then Houston.   
   
 Q.   Was he just a little bit too much?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   He was too good.   Absolutely.   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Did the time delay affect anything?   Your timing or anything?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   No.   I've been around long enough to handle most, yeah, delays and whatever happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT