TMS - STUTTGART
November 3, 2000
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Lleyton, please.  
 
Q. That looked rather more straightforward than the television view of your last match
with him seemed. 
 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yes, for sure. Greg is a difficult player to play against, really. He's
one of those guys who doesn't give you a lot of rhythm out there on the court. Today, I
think I learned a lot from playing him last week in Basel, especially because he is such a
good indoor court player. I got off to a good start today. I felt like when I got my
second serves, I thought he was going to stay back most of the time. That's what he did
last week. I knew that once we were sort of in a baseline rally, I had sort of the
percentage on my side. I had to really take advantage of that. In the games that he lost,
he gave me a couple of second serves. I took advantage of it. 
 
Q. Did you sense he wasn't moving as well as he might?
 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Not that I could tell out there. You know, when he had to come in, I
thought he played pretty well. On the passes that I did make, I thought they were pretty
good passing shots.  
 
Q. How did you feel he served compared with the last time?
 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Probably about the same, I'd say. He probably served a little bit
better, I'd say, in the fact that he missed a lot of first serves last time by a big
margin. He just netted a lot towards the bottom of the net. I think he actually had a lot
better rhythm on his serve out there today.  
 
Q. Which was the tougher match for you, yesterday or today? 
 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: You know, it's hard to say. Greg is the type of player who puts
pressure on you. If you do lose your serve, you really are under a lot of pressure. Tim is
obviously a more all-court player. You know, I'd have to say that yesterday was definitely
a lot harder match in the sense that I was a set down and I had to really fight and sort
of dig deep. In the end, sort of that 4-All game, you know, Tim had his chance to win
that. It could have very easily gone the other way yesterday.  
 
Q. Greg was obviously very impressed with the way you served today. How do you feel you
served today?
 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, I felt like I served one of my better matches out there today
with my serving. I got off to a good start. I think I actually served more aces than Greg,
which is not that common, I suppose, for a lot of players. I'm pretty happy with that.  
 
Q. Lisbon is looking more and more of a reality for you. You're not there yet, but
would that have been beyond your expectations at the start of the year?
 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, probably. A couple of weeks into the year, I would have given
myself a slight chance. Probably going into Adelaide, I think it would have been a little
too much to ask, to have a fair-dinkum chance of making the top eight at the end of the
year. My goal was probably to try to get into the Top 10, try and stay there as much as
possible. But to actually make the top eight and secure the spot, it was always going to
be tough. As you said, at the moment I'm not there yet. Sitting on a good ticket, I think,
at the moment.  
 
Q. What do you think of this campaign by the ATP?
 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: I think it's a great idea by the ATP. It's got all those young guys
together. Wherever you look now on the TV, the ads, all the commercials and that -- I'm
not sure how many players, maybe 12 guys in it. I think this is sort of the future of
tennis. I think this is a good thing to sort of have us as so-called "gladiator
guys." I think the photos turned out not too bad. 
 
Q. Not too much pressure for the young players?
 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: I don't think so. I think we've all had to deal with kinds of pressure
so far anyway. If you look at the guys they've picked, they're sort of the guys who have
been successful in some kind of tournaments, or probably ranked, I assume, in the Top 30
at least, around that.  
 
Q. There's also a new campaign of the tournament, a group of 40 supporters for you
especially. They get free tickets as long as you are in the tournament. Is that a good
idea?
 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: I think it's been fantastic, particularly at the start of the week. A
lot of the tournaments sort of struggle when you do have a big centre court like it does
here. You know, you go out there Monday, Tuesday morning match, there's no one in the
crowd. It's just sort of a dead atmosphere. I think it's a very good idea to get a bit of
emotion out there. I think it's been good. 
 
Q. How was their support?
 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Fantastic. I don't think it puts off the opponent. I think it's good to
hear your name, you know, get the Germans behind you over here.  
 
Q. Going back to the other thing, do you feel there's a changing of the guard now? Do
you feel maybe Sampras', Agassi's generation is starting to slip, you young guys are ready
to move up and take over?
 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: It's hard to say. You know, they've both won Grand Slams this year. You
can never write those guys off, I don't think. Pete beat me just a few weeks ago in the US
Open semifinal. I think those guys will rise to the occasion of playing the big
tournaments, the Grand Slams. You know, I don't know how many years they've got left in
them, but I think for sure the next group of guys are these "New Balls" guys
coming up, for sure.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT