TMS - FORO ITALICO
May 12, 2000
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Is it fair to say that this one, getting to the Semifinal of this one, gives you
greater pleasure than getting to the Semifinal in Miami?

LLEYTON HEWITT: I'd say so, more it does, for sure. Miami, I was hitting the ball well.
It was on hardcourt, and I had beaten some great players, I'd beaten Yevgeny before. But
to come here after having a bit of a break after Davis Cup, I didn't know what to expect,
to tell you the truth. I only started hitting a week before I left. I had a little bit of
a virus before that. Then, you know, it's always -- your first European claycourt
tournament is always tough. To be through to the Semifinals now, I really take it one
match at a time. A lot of people say that, but this week I've taken it one match at a time
more than ever.

Q. It's taken some players years to figure out that stuff. It seems to have taken you
about five minutes.

LLEYTON HEWITT: A bit longer than that, but yeah, obviously Darren Cahill's been a big
help for me, you know, even though the way he plays is totally different to the way I
play, you know. He felt that clay was going to be my best surface in two or three years'
time. That was the attitude that we're going into it - the whole claycourt season this
year - with, was to just gain experience. Obviously, I'm up there pretty high in the
rankings at the moment. It was a great opportunity to go even higher. We didn't really
expect much to come out of this, this was just a learning experience. And, you know, I
don't think I've mastered claycourt tennis just yet, but, you know, I think I've
definitely taken a big step this week.

Q. How did you feel physically at midnight last night?

LLEYTON HEWITT: (Laughing) A little disappointed that we did lose that doubles, because
it was a big opportunity. We did have a lot of chances, but, you know, who knows? It may
pay off come tomorrow that I didn't have to play another doubles match till later tonight.

Q. But it didn't affect you at all going into today?

LLEYTON HEWITT: No, not really. Obviously, I wasn't -- I didn't play 100 percent, I
wasn't feeling 100 percent out there. But I gave 100 percent, I gave everything I had on
the court and, you know, I think that's anything -- sort of what Woodforde would have
asked as far as me going into that match. But it was very hard to get room service and
stuff at one o'clock last night.

Q. Did you enjoy playing that match today as much as the crowd enjoyed watching it?

LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, I think so. It was another -- I suppose another different
experience for me, playing against a guy who has been brought up on clay and really, you
know, most of his results have all been on clay. And he's had some great results this
week, to beat Kafelnikov and Ferreira in back-to-back matches is a hell of an effort. I
really enjoyed it out there. Obviously, once I lost the second set I had to raise the bar
out there today, and that's when I was happy with my game. I sort of stepped up and sort
of took it right to him. He's one of those guys that you don't really -- he's not going to
lose the match; you have to go out there and win it. That's why I felt that I was pretty
pleased today.

Q. In a curious way did that virus come at the right time for you? Because it's given
you a break. You probably wouldn't have wanted it yourself, but you can come back now
almost in the middle of this claycourt season.

LLEYTON HEWITT: In one way it may have been a blessing in disguise. In another way, I
still got a zero-pointer in Monte Carlo. Who knows, I could have done the same there maybe
my first week there. Obviously, it's a big disappointment to me to sit out on the big
tournaments. When your ranking gets higher and higher, those are the ones you sort of go
out of game for and it's a big opportunity to be playing against the best players in the
world in those tournaments, because they have to play them now. It was a little bit of a
disappointment, but who knows? I may have lost a few first rounds and had no confidence
coming in here anyway.

Q. Did you play very much on the anthill courts in Australia?

LLEYTON HEWITT: Did I try on them?

Q. Did you play on them as a youngster?

LLEYTON HEWITT: Not really, I played a little bit in Cairns, a little bit in Melbourne.
I had the Claycourt Nationals, 14s and 16s I played on. I played in Canberra for one
satellite actually, in Dubbo, all these lovely places out in the middle of nowhere. This
was really all I've played on.

Q. And so really, I mean, as far as you're concerned, you are pretty new to clay? Clay
is not a surface that you're particularly used to?

LLEYTON HEWITT: No, for sure. You know, it's -- it's one -- sort of an unknown factor a
little bit to me. I've learned a lot sort of the last week or so, but I still have a lot
to learn about playing on clay to be able to do it week in and week out.

Q. Cahill was saying last night that there are a couple of red claycourts at Memorial
Drive where you boys grew up. Did you sort of just look at them and wonder what they were
like? Did you ever go on them?

LLEYTON HEWITT: There's a little bit of a story behind that as well. I had practiced on
those a little bit as a junior, so before I went on European Tours and stuff like that and
in Junior squads, Tennis Australia put a lot of money into putting those courts down. One
-- I think only one state got them, South Australia was lucky enough -- we had a good
junior program -- to get them. Then this year the Next Generation Center, the new center
next to Memorial Drive, took them over and I practiced on them in December and they took
them over in January. And I came back to practice on them, then go away straight after the
Davis Cup, to come away to Europe, and it was grass coming through them and, you know,
very old, for a lot of money Tennis Australia put into it. So the guys at Tennis SA took
them back in there, they got them ready. I had a week or five days of good practice on
them.

Q. The reason we were laughing is that the bloke who owns Next Generation is David
Lloyd, who keeps saying dig up grasscourt. So it's funny that there's grass coming in on
the claycourt.

LLEYTON HEWITT: (Laughing) It is.

Q. How do you explain that difference between your game in the second and the third
sets which seemed, just watching you, quite dramatic?

LLEYTON HEWITT: It was a strange match. You know, it was a little bit very up and down
today and yesterday I suppose as well. So I just felt I had a lot of chances in the second
set which I didn't capitalize on, and I felt that, you know, I should have probably been
up an early break instead of down an early break in that set. Then sort of whether it had
to do with a little bit of energy, sort of in the end of that set, I didn't worry about it
too much. He played some great tennis and started serving a lot better, used his forehand
a lot better, his backhand cross-court was unbelievable, he was getting a lot of angle off
that. I just had to refocus and I just thought about yesterday's match, to tell you the
truth, the start that I got off to on Thomas yesterday, and I tried to do the same thing
today and it paid off.

Q. Who was giving the fists behind the umpire's chair? Was that family or...?

LLEYTON HEWITT: That was some Australian guy.

Q. Really?

LLEYTON HEWITT: I don't know, I'd never seen him before. 

Q. How did you know he was Australian?

LLEYTON HEWITT: You could tell by the accent. Every time I'd stand up out of my chair,
he'd say, "Come on mate, let's go, come on the Aussies." I just thought in the
end I'll repay him a little bit, maybe he got some TV time as well.

Q. Talking about energy, you were obviously very tired when you played Norman in
Australia. What are your thoughts about that match tomorrow?

LLEYTON HEWITT: That's going -- you can't take Magnus lightly at all. I don't think
he's dropped a set here all week. He's obviously hitting the ball very well. You know, I'm
going to have to try and start early. In Australia I sort of let him get away, he got this
confidence going where he served huge and hit a lot of big ground strokes as well. I found
it very hard to sort of get myself back in the match there. I just about scraped that
third set out, served four, had opportunities in the tiebreak as well, and I think I got
to try to stay with him early tomorrow. But, yeah, you can't take him lightly at all. He's
a great player.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT