DAVIS CUP - USA vs AUSTRALIA
July 16, 1999
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (inaudible) how much did that make you settle down?

LLEYTON HEWITT:  That was a huge game for me.  I was a little bit nervous at that time.  I heard the boys sort of saying out in the side of the court, I heard Newc on the side of the court -- I mean, I worked on my serve the whole week, so sort of he said a couple of key things to get my ball toss right in the right position and just stay steady on my service.  That is what I did.  Next three to five points I served just about all first serves.  That is when my serve start working for me.  I started holding serve a lot easier.


Q.  Second set tiebreak.  The way it went, how do you get yourself back in the match, third set?

LLEYTON HEWITT:  I thought Todd was starting to get a little bit tired at that point and really I think that was the most positive thing I could take out of it; that whatever I am feeling, I am sure he is feeling a lot worse than I am.  So I went out there with that attitude for the rest of the match.  I was going to stay out there as long as I had to to win that first match.


Q.  How does match rate in terms of your performance?

LLEYTON HEWITT:  Best win I have ever had.


Q.  How was your night last night?

LLEYTON HEWITT:  Actually pretty tough to go to sleep last night.  Trying to have an early night, but then really couldn't get to sleep for a couple of hours.  I just got on the phone; called the folks back home and all the mates.


Q.  Todd was struggling the fourth set.  Did you sense that as well; that pretty much he was spent?

LLEYTON HEWITT:  Yeah, Newc sort of felt that as well.  I had to really try and get on top of him early in the fourth set. I did that; I came up with a few good returns and he hadn't been serve and volleying any second serves up 'til then until the first game of the fourth set; then he started serve and volleying second serves, so I took out of that that he really wanted the points to finish quickly and didn't want to sort of get into a baseline rally with me.


Q.  Is it what you had expected it to be?

LLEYTON HEWITT:  Pretty much.  I can't wait to get out there and play again.  Fantastic atmosphere out there.  I tried to block the crowd out as much as I could today.  All that band noise, stuff really sort of got over the top of our Fanatics up the top there, didn't really hear them at all.


Q.  How did you manage to keep your nerve throughout the match?

LLEYTON HEWITT:  I think Newc had a big part in that, sort of he kept me pretty calm, taking deep breaths at every  change of ends and no matter what the situation was, straight off, after I lost the second set when I got the early break in the first set, when I was still serving for 5-Love in the fourth, Newc was great on the side of the court.


Q.  Your experience at Wimbledon playing on Center Court with Becker, even though it was a loss, did that help you in any way just going through that?

LLEYTON HEWITT:  I think it helped me, but I think the biggest thing was the match I played against Todd in Sydney.  I took a lot of confidence out of that match.  I was pretty tired at that time and just made the final of Adelaide; that was the quarterfinals of Sydney; then I came out and I really gutsed that out.  I think that was in the back of Todd's mind that I wasn't going to go away out there today.  So I think really that match actually did a lot for me even though I did lose it.


Q.  How high are you right now on your Davis Cup debut and can you also talk about the atmosphere out there?

LLEYTON HEWITT:  It is fantastic.  As I said, it is the biggest win of my career.  Biggest match I have played in my career.  I am sure there is a lot of people back home watching it into the wee hours of the early morning.  It is a great atmosphere out there on center court, out here in Boston as well.  It is just  -- because it is pretty tight as well.  You sort of got your guys up on one end; I sort prefer being on the far end as much as I can.  Come down the other end and it is:  "Todd, Todd, Todd," so, I try to block out the crowd as much as possible, but you still hear it.


Q.  Do you pattern your game after Agassi at all?

LLEYTON HEWITT:  A little bit.  I try to play pretty aggressive from the baseline.  I think the biggest thing today was my serve.  I served really well.  But I don't think I actually just model my game on one person.  I try and work on a lot of areas of my game.  I am trying to become and all-court player.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT