SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 8, 2013
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. SEPPI/L. Hewitt
  6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Good start.   What happened after that?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   He played a lot better.   He hardly missed a ball after the first three games.   I had chances to go up 4‑Love.   From then on, he played really well. 
He served better than I've seen him serve before.   Yeah, he hit his spots.   That's sometimes his weaker side, his serve and especially his second serve. 
He actually got a high percentage of first serves in.   On that kind of court out there, it's the perfect kind of court for him.

Q.   Your own serve probably wasn't what you would have wanted today. 
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, I served in patches.   Probably when I was down breakpoints and stuff, I didn't get enough first serves in.   He's such a tough player to play when the ball is on his terms. 

Q.   What would your plans be for the rest of the year in terms of tournaments?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I'm not sure.   I'm meant to play Vienna next week.   I've just had a bit of a niggle in my wrist the last two weeks.   I'm going to get that assessed and make a decision from there. 

Q.   'A niggle.'   Do you have any sort of clues about what might be going on there?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Not really, no.   Yeah, haven't had any scans or anything, but I've been feeling it the last two weeks. 

Q.   Will you do that here before you go?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Not sure.   Haven't thought about it yet. 

Q.   On a completely unrelated event, the Australian Open, record crowds all the time.   Do you ever look back and think what might have happened if the move to Melbourne Park had not been made?   It's become something that a lot of people never thought it would be. 
LLEYTON HEWITT:   No, I don't think about it.   I've only ever known it since it's Melbourne Park when I used to go and watch.   All the Grand Slams have grown over the years.   You know, with roof, different stuff, yeah, Melbourne Park was fantastic and now it's getting better and better each year.

Q.   Probably grown more than the others, would it be fair to say?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, probably.   Obviously now with a third roof on another major court.   A lot of different stuff out there.   I haven't experienced a lot of it.   But from what I hear, it's very fan‑friendly, which is the big thing. 

Q.   What are your personal expectations over the next 12 months?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Obviously for me the next focus is the Australian Open and then the Davis Cup tie against France straight after that.   They're the two main focuses.   That's the priority. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT