AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 15, 2013
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







M. CILIC/L. Hewitt
  6‑4, 4‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How did you pull up?   You looked a bit sore with your leg. 
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, not too bad.   I was getting a bit sore.   Didn't feel like I could move 100%, which is‑‑ yeah, just a few matches playing on grass, I think, and just a slight strain.
So, yeah, I think, you know, I hung in there and kept trying to track balls down.   But when he hit his spots on his serves I didn't feel like I was reacting as well as probably best and pushing off on my serve, as well.

Q.   Is it a concern for Wimbledon?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Not really.   I don't think so.

Q.   What was the scenario painted to you about going out on No. 1 from centre?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   It was all weird.   We were getting ready to play on centre court again, and we saw the covers coming off, and all of a sudden we got told we could be moving to Court 1 by an ATP guy. 
Yeah, just really, really strange.   I think the ATP guy really panicked under pressure.   Yeah, I've played two matches in one day, semi and final here, in the past.   You know, I just said, We can't just go on forecast the whole time, because two days ago we got told we probably wouldn't get any matches in for the day, and we had a full day's play and got back on track in the tournament. 
So I think he has to take the blame for a lot of it, because there hasn't been another drop of rain since.

Q.   Were you annoyed?   Were you angry?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I was disappointed, obviously.   To play a semifinal on a tour event, especially one like this, Court 1 in front of a few people is not the ideal situation that you want to play in.

Q.   Do you think it was a slight against a four‑time champion?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   No, it wasn't ‑‑ it's not that.   I think just the semifinal in general.   It was more the way it was gone about I think purely because if you're going to go on a weather forecast, then, yeah, you should have probably scheduled us at the same times and we would have been happy to play on Court 1.
You know, because we got told early on today when we were about to go on that we could be on and off five or ten minutes a lot of times today.   If you're going to do that, then you're going one with the forecast, but then later on you're calling it because tomorrow it could be average, change the whole schedule and put you on a different court to what you started on, which was ridiculous.

Q.   I thought if they were going to move a match you   started already, you have to agree.   Is that not the case?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I'm not sure, Mate.   I don't know.   I don't know the rule and I don't think the ATP guy had a clue.

Q.   Who was that?
THE MODERATOR:   The tour manager. 

Q.   Do you ever remember that happening to you before, where you started a match on one court and finished it on another?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, it's happened once I think at the US Open, but it was because of the court late at night.   There was water seeping out of the Grandstand Court, so we obviously had to change courts.
But, yeah, I just don't think you can go off a forecast, because, you know, as they told me, they had 16 different forecasts going today from 16 different places, and they all had a different forecast.
Yeah, that's the tough thing when you get to the pointy end of a tournament.

Q.   Did that situation add to your frustration with the umpiring, as well?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Not really.   Once I was out there playing it was ‑‑ you know, I was focused on what I had to do.   Obviously it's frustrating.   We started on centre court where you have Hawk‑Eye, and I feel there were a couple of rough calls on Court 1 and you don't have that. 
Obviously that's more frustrating.   You're in a semifinal, and you feel like you have a couple of rough calls and you can't challenge.   In terms of that, that adds to it a bit. 

Q.   Would you have taken this at the start of the week in terms of your hit‑out for Wimbledon?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, absolutely.   I played great all week.   I got better, obviously.   The first round I didn't play my best tennis.   Throughout the week I played really well.   Today was tough conditions, really tough conditions, blustery. 
Yeah, I nearly found a way to get back into that first set.   I even had two or three break points at 5‑4 when he was serving for it.   If I could have got back in the first set and put pressure on him, it could have been different.   Yeah, he played well.

Q.   (Indiscernible.)
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, I don't play that many matches, so the more matches I get before a major, the better for me.

Q.   What's the plan for the next week?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Just, you know, get the body right obviously and just try and keep the rhythm going. 

Q.   Will you practice every day, or will you take the next day or two off completely?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, I'm not sure.   I will speak to Rochey and Luch and see what they think.   Yeah, I don't know.   I'm not sure what I will do tomorrow obviously.   I haven't thought about that.   After that I will try and hit most days, I think, because with the weather, you just don't know.   The court time that I can get is important. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT