AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 14, 2013
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. HEWITT/J. Del Potro
  6‑2, 2‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What was your expectation coming in here this week?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   No, just to try to get as many matches as possible, really.   And then I have been hitting the ball really well in practice, as I said, all week.   I was a bit scratchy in the first match and haven't really put a foot wrong since.  
Yeah, throughout today I played great.   My ball striking was fantastic.   Yeah, even though I was 4‑Love down in the second set, I didn't really do too much wrong.   He played incredible tennis.  
   
 Q.   What is it about certain places that certain players like to play?   And why especially do you think you do so well here?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, I don't know.   It's been a long wait for me.   Pretty much once I was out of the Australian Open, I was focused on this tournament and Wimbledon.   
So, you know, obviously there is times of the year I look forward to, especially at my age now, the stage of my career that I'm at.   Yeah, these four weeks are one of them.  
   
 Q.   This is the first semifinal I think since you made the final in Newport last year.   It's like a lot of stuff in between.   Is it like all worth it for the events you really like?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I don't play that many events.   
   
 Q.   Obviously this is part of the bigger picture to you, but is it hard not to look now only two wins away from another title, potentially?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   No, it's not hard.   I keep looking just to the guys I've got to play.  
You know, Cilic is going to be another tough one, very similar to my match against Querrey yesterday and against Del Potro today.   In terms of that, I have had good preparation for playing him, but, you know, he's the defending champ here.   
He's obviously beaten Lopez in a tight one yesterday, and to beat Berdych in straight sets, he's going to have quite a bit of confidence going into tomorrow's match, as well.  
   
 Q.   When was the last time you felt so comfortable on a court where you're playing these few matches, and, as you were saying the other day, the way you even played that match at the French Open?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, I don't know.   Going into the Australian Open this year, I played really well at Kooyong.   My ball striking in the three matches there, especially the semi and final in Kooyong was great.   
So, you know, I felt like I was hitting the ball pretty well that time of the year, as well.   You know, I have played in patches throughout the year when I've played.   You know, against Isner in Indian Wells I played pretty well.  
Yeah, so there has definitely been times, but obviously I feel pretty comfortable on the glass.  
   
 Q.   Probably been a while since you played back‑to‑back matches for a while.   How is the body holding up?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, I feel fine.  
   
 Q.   How different is it to have family around?   Obviously you're not taking your eye off the ball, having to take care of them all the time, but does it feel a little different just having your little ones here and enjoying the experience?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   No, it's second nature now.   It's just ‑‑that's your priority.   That's what I have done for a while now.  
Yeah, doesn't bother me.   They weren't with me at the French Open and Nice, so it was good to see them this week when they came over.  
   
 Q.   Is results like this incentive for you to keep pushing yourself?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Not really.   You know, it obviously backs ‑‑you know, I have been practicing great.   So it was more just being able to do it on a match court against quality players.  
In the back of my mind I knew I could do it.   If everything fell together I knew I could play well.   Yeah, these are the times that I want to be playing my best tennis and obviously going into a Slam in a week or so's time.  
   
 Q.   You touched on your age a few moments ago.   Do you think about that at all when you're going out to play a match or going into a tournament?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   No, no.   With the amount of tennis I have missed in the last four or five years, I probably don't put those years on to my age anyway.   I just keep telling myself I'm in my 20s.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned you really look forward to these four weeks.   There's going to be that extra week in the future between the French Open and Wimbledon.   Do you look forward to there being more grass court tennis?   Do you think it should be a bigger part of the calendar, maybe even bigger than that's going to be?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   If I'm around, if I'm still playing, that would be great.   I love playing as many weeks on grass as possible.   Yeah, that's why the Olympics and playing Newport last year was so special to me because I could play a bigger chunk of tournaments.  
At the start of last year, though, Queen's and Wimbledon, my foot wasn't ‑‑I wasn't even close to 100%.   That was disappointing after the surgery that it took a little bit extra time.  
But, yeah, I think it's a unique surface.   I think there are certain players that play really well on it.   Yeah, if we can get decent weather, yeah, I'm all for more tournaments on grass.  
   
 Q.   Is there one outstanding memory of your first victory here, one you can bring to mind?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Not really.   Probably beating Pete in the final.   It was a really hot weekend that weekend when I played the semi, and I then the final was really hot, which is surprising.  
   
 Q.   It won't be Sunday, I don't think.   
LLEYTON HEWITT:   No.   (Smiling.)   And, yeah, I remember in the warmup just the court being really quick, just the ball skidding low and Pete's slice backhand was just knifing through in the warmup and I thought I could be in for a really long day.   Played a great, clean match.   
   
 Q.   Obviously there is the language thing and stuff, but why have you always been so comfortable in London?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I don't know.   I really enjoy coming here.   Yeah, I don't know if it's ‑‑I have never played on any other surface here.   
I enjoy playing on grass, obviously, but I really enjoy coming here and, you know, obviously I'm fortunate, as well, can go to Wimbledon as a member, as well.   So for me that's pretty special.   
   
 Q.   How often do you take advantage of ‑‑I know it's only four weeks or three weeks of the year that you're in London, but how often have you taken advantage of the membership?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Every time before Queen's normally, you know, as soon as I'm knocked out of Paris.  
Yeah, at least I can get on a great grass court straightaway.  
   
 Q.   Do you get into the clubhouse for afternoon tea, as well?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I have never actually been there.   I don't travel with a suit.   (Smiling).  
   
 Q.   Where is the tie?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Next to the trophy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT