AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 13, 2013
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. HEWITT/S. Querrey
  5‑7, 6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you assess that?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I played pretty well the whole match.   First set I came out of the blocks well.   I was serving well, was hitting returns well. 
I thought it was, for the conditions, it was a pretty high quality match.   First set I was unlucky not to be up a break a few times, and then he had a little bit of luck in that game he broke me there, and then, yeah, he started to find his rhythm on his first serve a bit and that made it a little bit tougher.
But I knew if I still kept playing the way I was playing I was going to give myself opportunities.   You know, I still had to fight hard on some big points, though, even late in the second set to hold serve.   But, you know, all in all, I felt like I played three pretty good sets.

Q.   Last game, few swings there, as well?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, yeah, it was a tough one.   Obviously it's always tough closing it out, and Sam's the kind of guy that sort of just swings at it a little bit and sort of goes for it. 
He got a couple of net cords there that made it awkward for me, but in the end I was relieved to get out of that game.

Q.   Do you feel like you're playing the best you have played in quite some time?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   The last two matches I have played pretty well.   Yeah, at the French I played pretty well, really.   First two sets I played, yeah, solid tennis against a quality player.
So, you know, that gave me confidence in my ball striking.   I feel like in practice since the French I have been hitting the ball great in practice, so it's just a matter of taking it into the matches.
I sort of pick and choose the tournaments I want to play nowadays.   I don't play week in and week out.   So for me, going into a Grand Slam, this is perfect preparation where you play quality players and you're a break point down and fighting off big points.   And to come through a close three‑setter against a quality player is good preparation.

Q.   What is it about grass that suits your game so well?   You have had so much success, but you're not a Goran Ivanisevic type of player, you don't serve and volley hardly.   Why do you think you have had so much success on grass?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I'm not sure.   Early on it definitely was my favorite surface.   Over the years I grew to love it.   Now it is no doubt my favorite service.
I have always moved well on grass, which is a massive thing.   Yeah, I have always had a positive attitude towards it, as well, which is huge, to go out and be positive playing on the surface.
I think I play to my strengths the most part, as well, which is obviously my movement.   If I can take care of my service games, I'm still a good enough returner to break guys out there. 
Grass court tennis, there's only one or two points sometimes in a set, and you have to take them when it pops up.

Q.   How do you get yourself ready for a match like this when you know the conditions are still so slick and you've got somebody with an almighty serve?   It comes down to a bit of a crapshoot out there?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, a little bit.   I was more worried trying not to get injured out there.   Even when we started today there was still some mist in the air. 
The court was definitely slippery out there but more dangerous up at the end closer to the centre court because of the shade that it caught, so it's always a little bit wet at that end. 
It's always going to be tough, but I felt like I was on his best serves and that I was getting back a lot of them throughout the first set.   So that gave me confidence right from the start.

Q.   Do you see how Tommy Haas is doing?   He's had so much success over the last year.   Do you think if you had pretty deep runs in a tournament maybe you could start getting direct entry into more tournaments, higher seeds, byes, make a run like him? 
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Tommy has done amazing.   Like a couple years ago I saw him play at Halle when I was there last, and he was very average and his body wasn't holding up at all at that stage.   You know, I thought that was pretty much the end for him. 
He's done remarkable to come back and play the tennis he's playing.   He's got himself in great nick.   I'm not going to play week in and week out, anyway.   I pick and choose my schedule when I feel like playing and   the tournaments I want to play. 
I don't care about my ranking whatsoever.   I'll just play the events I want to play. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT