AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 10, 2013
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. HEWITT/M. Russell
  4‑6, 6‑1, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   You had to work for that one, didn't you?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yes.   It's always tough the first one obviously on grass.   I felt I could see the ball really well in practice going into it, but the courts are a little bit different as well out there at the moment.   It's a bit slippery on the foot and don't probably have quite 100% in your footing.
But also, yeah, I just didn't feel like I was serving great.   Nothing was sort of ‑‑I didn't have too much rhythm at the start, and the ball was propping a little bit out there, as well, because it hasn't had a lot of play on it.   It suited his style of play.
He's the kind of guy you've got to go out there and beat him.   He's not going to give you too much.   In the end I found my rhythm a little bit better.

Q.   Would you have preferred to play the doubles match before that?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, I think you always do just to get a feel of serve and return on grass and stuff.   Now that I got through it, it's fine.
Yeah, whatever.   No big deal.

Q.   Why are you still doing this?   You have money in the bank, a young family you probably prefer to be home with.   Why are you doing it?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I still enjoy the big tournaments, obviously Wimbledon, Australian Open, two of my favorite tournaments.
The Grand Slams and Davis Cup are still what I play for.

Q.   How important is the second game of the second set that went forever and ever?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, it was a big game.   I still wasn't timing the ball that well at that stage, and I was able just to, you know, find my rhythm a little bit more as the game went on.
Yeah, I didn't serve well to get out of the game but sort of just kept fighting hard and hanging in there.   In the end that was obviously a pretty big turning point.

Q.   You come here, and obviously you've won it four times.   Is it still a special place for you?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, absolutely.   It's one of my favorite events.   I have always enjoyed getting off the clay anyway and onto the grass.   I have had such a good record here, as well.   Yeah, most times it's taken pretty good players to beat me here.

Q.   Following onto the question why you're continuing to play, what are your ambitions as far as Wimbledon is concerned?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I don't know.   See what happens with the draw and just take it one match at a time.
I still believe in my ball striking and obviously my movement out there, and, yeah, wait and see what happens. 

Q.   How much longer do you think you can keep going?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I don't know.   I'm not going to keep answering that every day.

Q.   Do you keep getting asked it?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Pretty much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT