BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 3, 2013
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. ISTOMIN/L. Hewitt
  7‑5, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Disappointing.   Just give us your thoughts about that.   It was very tight. 
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, just didn't take my chances.   Should have been up an early break in the first and the second set. 
Yeah, he hit his spots well on his serve all day today.   Yeah, just felt like nothing really went right:   the Hawk‑Eye calls, how many lines he hit, yeah, even net cords when I got them they sort of set up for him to hit passing shots. 
It was sort of one of those matches where I just tried scrapping around and trying to hang in there for as long as I could.
I still had opportunities.   Even at 5‑All in the second set I fought hard to stay in the second set.   Then 5‑All had break point and nearly came up with that and hit the tape and bounced back. 
Just one of those days. 

Q.   You going to Kooyong; is that right? 
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, I play Kooyong.   Would have liked another match or two here, but, yeah, I was pretty happy with my ball‑striking at least.   Just didn't, as I said, quite take my chances today when they came up. 
You know, both sets ‑ especially the first set ‑ I felt like I was putting a lot more pressure on his service games and just didn't get rewarded for it. 

Q.   A little bit flatter than you were in the game the other night?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, maybe a little bit flatter, but not too bad.   I had a pretty good hit‑out yesterday in the head, I guess.   Yeah, the weather, that takes a bit more out of you, but physically felt fine on the court.
That wasn't a problem.

Q.   A little bit frustrating when you're physically in good nick and can't get the games you want? 
LLEYTON HEWITT:   That's tennis, though.   You know, it happens every week.   It's nice that I can put myself in a position to feel good and feel like I can play match after match.   That's what you do the training for.
Yeah, it's just frustrating any time that you have chances and you feel like you're in a match and you don't come away with the win.

Q.   Going back the end of that second set where of it 4‑5, 5‑All, and a break point, what did you think about then?   You think about staying in the point or going for your shots?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Depends.   Obviously when I had break point at 5‑All he made a good first serve down the T.   I caught the line again, and I could only push it back.   I couldn't dictate play, so it was very hard for me to get on top of the point.
He had a short forehand, I hung in there, sort of played a lob, and sort of had to play a reflex sort of backhand pass and it hit the tape and bounced back. 
So, yeah, then I fought hard to save a match point and then got an easier backhand and just overhit it at deuce to give myself a game point there to take the second set into a tiebreak. 
Yeah, it's a game inches. 

Q.   I know you would have liked a chance to play Andy here.   I think you might get the chance in Kooyong. 
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I don't know.   Is he playing? 

Q.   I think he may be.   Are you looking forward to playing those top guys at Kooying just so you can measure yourself against those guys before you go to Melbourne?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, Kooyong you're guaranteed three matches, so that's a good thing.   The quality of field there is pretty even across the board.   Del Potro is obviously extremely good.   Monaco, Tipsarevic, top ten players.   Most of guys are sort of that 15 to 20 range anyway.
Going to be quality matches every day.   Exactly the same conditions as Melbourne, so that's good. 

Q.   What did you make the Bernard Tomic getting a win over Novak last night?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, obviously he must have hit the ball pretty well to beat Novak.   I didn't see a whole heap of it so I can't comment on the match or whatever, but, yeah, it's going to give you a lot confidence.   Absolutely.

Q.   What else have you got out of this tournament apart from some competitive matches? 
LLEYTON HEWITT:   That's the biggest thing.   Just playing the break points, the deuce points, fighting off tough situations.   When you've had a couple months no matches, it doesn't matter how many practice match you play.   Until you get in that situation of playing the tight points and going for your shots and stuff like that on the big points, that's what counts.
The two matches have been absolutely a bonus this week, but, yeah, would have been nice to have a couple more. 

Q.   How did it feel in the middle of that‑unfortunately second set when there seemed to be a bit of a comeback coming from you?   Did it feel like it was starting to come together at that point?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   It was an up and down match.   There was small momentum swings throughout the match.   As I said, throughout the first set I felt like the better player for the majority of it. 
He served well on the big points and hit the ball extremely clean from both sides, and he was kind of just slapping away only my service games.   I had to fight back from a couple Love‑30s. 
The second set, you know, I was down a few breakpoints, fought that off and then ended up breaking, and then he played a good game to break me back. 
You know, could have gone either way.

Q.   Will you go to Sydney for an couple days or straight to Melbourne?
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I don't know.   Haven't decided. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT