APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 10, 2012
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. TROICKI/L. Hewitt
  4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You must have been very pleased after the first five games, that run between there when you were up a break in the second set.   You played some terrific tennis.   
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, I played well.   There was a lot positive to take out of the match.   Yeah, he's a tough competitor.   He doesn't give you too many cheap points you out there.   He's got a very big serve.  
So I felt like I started getting into more of his service games.   Obviously from the start I had never hit with or never played against him before, so took me a little while to read his game.  
But, yeah, then I thought I was really in.   My serve just went off a little bit when I was up that set and a break about halfway through that second set.   That let me down a little bit, and then I just couldn't find my rhythm then throughout the third set on my serve.  
He picked up his first serve percentage, and that made it a lot tougher for me.   
   
 Q.   You were competitive in Perth, and here you're getting the wins.   Do you feel frustrated?   
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Ah, it's a little bit frustrating.   But as I said, I didn't come to Perth or here with the highest expectations.   It was to try and get match hardened as much as possible.  
Sure, I would've liked another match or two here for sure.   But all said and done, I felt like any movements got better throughout the Hopman Cup.   Then I think tonight was the best I moved‑‑ better than I moved in the Hopman Cup, which is a positive, because obviously my movement is such a big part of my game, so...   
   
 Q.   During the course of a three‑set match, does your movement stay the same?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Pretty much I think tonight, yeah.   You know, obviously it's going to be tougher next week over five sets as well.  
Hopefully the next few days I just acclimatize to the conditions in Melbourne.   Depending on who I play there, hopefully I come out and play well.  
   
 Q.   Do you want to try to get a match at Kooyong or anything?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   No, no.   
   
 Q.   In terms of the toe, where do you put it at?   95%?   
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Hard to put a number on it?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Yeah, very hard.  
   
 Q.   Is it fairly better than the first match at Hopman?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   It's no worse.   That's probably the biggest positive out of it.   If I played anywhere first match against Verdasco and couldn't walk the next day that was going to be a worry, but it hasn't got any worse.  
   
 Q.   What do you do to recover?   Ice the toe?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Um, few different things.   
   
 Q.   Painful?   
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Sometimes.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   Is it something that could go at any time?   It's a bit of an unknown in the back of your mind?   
LLEYTON HEWITT:   Not sure of that either.   It's very hard to put your finger on at the moment.   Yeah, just trying to battle away as well as possible.  
   
 Q.   Do you see yourself back here next year.   Do you think you got another year?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   At the moment I would like to.   Yeah, at the moment I would.   Obviously my focus is on the Aussie Open next week.   
To tell you the truth, we got that and then two weeks later, a week and a half later the Davis Cup in Geelong.   I haven't looked past.   
You know, I've been trying two get my body as close to 100% as possible for those two things.  
   
 Q.   Both Sam and Jelena have spoke about the pressure of winning in Australia.   Both said they thought it very was tough here.   As someone who has had success here yourself, can you understand what they're talking about?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I think everyone is different.   See, I love it.   2005 year was unbelievable.   I came here and everyone expected me to play well, and I won Sydney and played exceptional tennis the whole week there.  
Then went to Melbourne and just rode a wave for two weeks.   As I've said many times, I think it was the toughest Grand Slam draw that I've ever had, seven matches in a row against the guys that I had.  
To come through to the final and be two sets away from winning the tournament, you know, I think I handled the pressure reasonably well.  
   
 Q.   You feed off it.   You understand how it can work the other way?  
LLEYTON HEWITT:   I mean, it comes back to personalities and situations, I think.   Yeah, Andy Murray handles it pretty well in London.   
You know, everyone says he hasn't won a slam yet, but keep making semifinals, you're giving yourself a chance every time.   
Everyone is different.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT