AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 14, 2011
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 O. ROCHUS/L. Hewitt
  6-2, 3-0, Ret. 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How are you feeling?  
 LLEYTON HEWITT: I could be better. No, it was touch and go whether I'd be able to play here anyway. I slipped over last week at the end of the first set against Kohlschreiber and stirred up the foot that I had surgery on a little bit.   
 So since then I've just been trying to, you know, get treatment and do all the right things. I've been talking with the doctors here. You know, it just hasn't quite improved as much as I would have liked by today, but I wanted to come out and try anyway.  
 You know, I obviously have to focus on Wimbledon now next week.  
  
  Q. Is it a case that regarding Wimbledon, you didn't want to make it worse today?  
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yes and no. I'd want it to be a lot better than it is today to be able to play Wimbledon, yeah.  
  
  Q. Is there any chance you might not make it to Wimbledon, then, do you think?  
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Well, I'm not sure. Yeah, I still feel like -- in another week I can, another five days or whatever, I feel like I can still get good treatment. You know, with the right people behind me and have a couple easier days, as well, hopefully I can, yeah, start getting a little bit better.  
  
  Q. You are having to kind of rebound from a lot of blows at the moment. How frustrating is it?  
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, it's a little bit frustrating. Yeah, because I'm actually quite happy with my ball striking at the moment, which is frustrating because my movement is such a big part of my game, though.  
 Yeah, that's the most frustrating thing. Yeah, I guess more frustrating when you feel or you know you've done all the right things, as well, to try and put yourself in a position.  
 So, yeah, this is one of my favorite times of the year playing these grass court tournaments, as well. So to not be 100% and going out there still trying to compete isn't, you know, that easy mentally, either.   
  
  Q. Do you feel you just couldn't put much power through the foot today?  
 LLEYTON HEWITT: I was in pain the whole time, so it wasn't a matter of putting power into it.  
  
  Q. What sort of pain? Stabbing pain or ache?  
 LLEYTON HEWITT: It's more stabbing pain the whole time. It was -- you know, I felt like it was improving, yeah, pretty well up until last week. And then against Kohlschreiber, in the end of the first-set tiebreak, I slipped over and, you know, sort of jarred it again which wasn't probably the best thing for it.  
  
  Q. Would you consider painkillers for playing Wimbledon?  
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, I'll see what happens. I haven't even thought about it yet. I had quite a few today and it didn't work, so...   
  
  Q. As injections or tablets?  
 LLEYTON HEWITT: You don't need to know that. (Laughter.) Thanks.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT