WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2010
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/L. Hewitt
  7-5, 6-4, 3-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please, for Lleyton Hewitt. 

 Q. Two sets to love down, you came back, do you feel that was one that got away from you in the end?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yes and no. Yeah, he went back to playing some of his better tennis again in the fourth set. I didn't serve as well as I needed to. 
 Yeah, to put him under pressure, you know, I had a couple of 30-All games there late in the fourth set that I couldn't quite turn around. The two service games I lost in the fourth set, I really should have won both of those. 
 He hit some good returns, deep returns on them, but I was up in both service games.

 Q. Could you tell there was anything wrong with him in that third set?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: I don't know. He's always got something. So I wasn't focusing on it, yeah, at all. I was just trying to play my game. Yeah, he looked fine again in the fourth. 

 Q. It was a surprise he actually called for medical assistance at that stage in the match?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, well, he looked pretty comfortable at two sets to love, so yeah.

 Q. Must be pretty disappointed about the finish to your campaign?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, I guess. Well, you know, always when you lose any Grand Slam, you're disappointed. Yeah, I won't really reflect on it right at the moment. Over the next couple weeks. 
 Yeah, a lot of positives to take out of the last month, though, so... Got to try and look at those as much as possible. 

 Q. Physically, you came up all right at the end of the game? Hip is fine?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, fine. 

 Q. The US Open is the last slam of the year. Your next big focus?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, obviously. Haven't even thought about it up till now. Yeah, obviously you start that hard court swing and the US Open Series, you know, then the big pitch is obviously the US Open, a place that I enjoy playing at, so... 

 Q. Still think you got a chance you'll come back here and go a bit further? Still think you can win this tournament again?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah. As I said, I feel like I've got as good a chance as a few guys there that can win it. Yeah, I need a little bit of luck always. You know, even though Novak, it's possibly not his best surface, he's still a helluva player, especially from the back of the court. He's able to hit a lot of winners out there, you know, on any surface and he moves extremely well. 
 Yeah, I think if things fall my way, then yeah, sure. 

 Q. Did you think you had the match in your control at 2-All when you broke back in the fourth set?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Uhm, yes. But, you know, he played a good game to break me first game of the -- he got lucky with the net cord but hit a few good returns the first game of the fourth set. He's that kind of opponent that, you know, if you don't get a high percentage of first serves in, he'll jump on your second serve and put you under pressure. Yeah, I was never taking anything for granted.

 Q. He said he was suffering from stomach cramps. Has that ever happened to you, where you suffered, then regained your momentum later in the game?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: I don't know. I haven't had it. 

 Q. Did you change your tactics at all in the third set when you saw he was in trouble? 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Not really. I still tried to, yeah, come in a little bit, put him under some pressure when I can. He's not the easiest person to come in against, though, purely because he moves so well at the back of the court. If you don't hit your approach shot in the exact right position, uhm, yeah, you're gonna get punished obviously. 
 So, uhm, I was trying to bide my time obviously. I didn't quite return as well as I would have liked. 

 Q. Is it hard not to think that you'll be 30 when you come back here next year, the chances are slipping away? Do you sense that?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Not really, no. Yeah, I come back, I give a hundred percent and see what happens. I'd much rather be in my position of coming back at 30 and won it before than never have won it and trying to win your first one. 
 Yeah, that's the upside. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT