WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2010
Lleyton Hewitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. HEWITT/E. Korolev
  6-4, 6-4, 3-0 (ret.)

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Lleyton. 

 Q. Was that a day when things went as well as they could have in terms of tactics and the way you executed?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, it was good. I got off to a good start. I was on his serve from the start. You know, able to put pressure on him. The way he played was pretty much how I expected him to play. 
 He can come up with some great stuff out there and some loose points as well. It's a matter of just hanging on, giving a hundred percent in every point 'cause even when he's 40-15 up, you can still get out of one of those games. 
 So, yeah, for the most part I played pretty well. 

 Q. Seven unforced errors. You must be pretty happy with your efficiency, too. 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, yeah, I played a clean match, a smart match. I served well. Hit my spots really well where I wanted to today. Yeah, that was important because when he got an opportunity to have a swing, especially if I didn't get a high enough percentage of first serves in, that was going to make life tougher. 
 I was pretty happy when I did it.

 Q. When you see an opponent break down physically like that, do you get any pleasure out of that, any kind of satisfaction? 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, well when he called the trainer, he actually served all right just the game before that. I didn't really know a hundred percent why he was actually calling the trainer in the first place. It wasn't that bad because he actually waited till the next changeover. 
 So must have gone downhill very quickly for him to be able to pull out. 

 Q. You've had a couple of long battles with Monfils. What do you need to do to beat him?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: It's a different match to today. Different to my first round as well. He loves a target. He moves extremely well. Probably moves a bit better on clay and hard court than grass. 
 But, yeah, he's obviously got a big wingspan out there, good first serve. So it's a matter of, you know, going out there and still playing my game. I think I'll match up pretty well if I can go out and execute what I want to do.

 Q. Does the fact that Roger Rasheed has been involved with you both give any significance to the next one?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: I don't think so. I think once we get out there, yeah, we've played a couple times, I think he knows my game reasonably well and I know his pretty well. Once we're out there, it's going to be a different match because it's on grass, and I think that's going to be the biggest, you know, hopefully telling point. 

 Q. Did you sense any tension out in the crowd considering that England was playing at the same time?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: No, no. 

 Q. Are you going to watch Australia tonight?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, I will. Nice I finished a bit earlier than a couple days ago. Yeah, it will be good.

 Q. Have a couple of beers?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: No, I won't have any beers. No, not tonight. 

 Q. All business?
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, at the moment.

 Q. Are you pleased physically to be getting a reasonably easy run so far? 
 LLEYTON HEWITT: Yeah, the first match was physically long points out there. It's always hard the first five-setter on grass, I think. But I bounced back well today. Obviously, today didn't take a whole heap out of me, which is good. 
 Moving forward, you know, if you can keep doing that, putting yourself in a position where you feel good in the second week, it makes life a lot easier. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT