OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 14, 2013
Joe Mazzeo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOE MAZZEO:   Good afternoon.   Thank you for being here. 

Q.   Talk a little bit more about the day's events. 
JOE MAZZEO:   As you know, the PGA TOUR suspended play for the day.   It wasn't so much the rain, but the lightning and thunder that stopped us from letting players continue.
The idea right now is to begin tomorrow starting at 6:45.   Those that haven't started their round will start their rounds after those who have already begun continue.
We'll see after that what the conditions are like, with the idea of having a great event during the weekend.   The weather looks good right now.   Hopefully this is just a brief setback in the tournament.

Q.   What is the possibility of shortening the tournament to 54 holes or having a Monday finish?
JOE MAZZEO:   Well, right now it's too early to think about that.   The idea of the PGA TOUR and the goal of the PGA TOUR and every tournament is to have 72 holes of golf. 
The mindset we have right now and the mindset of those making decisions is to have a Sunday finish on Sunday afternoon.   We don't want to think about 54 holes yet.   We'll wait and see what happens. 

Q.   How will the course be prepared or how will it be ready to receive the players considering all the rain? 
JOE MAZZEO:   Well, the El Camaleon Golf Course actually drains really, really well because of the healthy mangrove that surrounds the course.   That was one of the keys of the course, is that it's very environmentally sustainable. 
This helps with drainage.   Obviously each situation is a little bit different considering the rain we've had.   Many people are working hard to ensure what this course is ready to play.   The volunteers, staff, everyone has been working here for at least the last week and a half on the course. 
S you saw, the course is in great shape.   We'll work to continue with that, we'll continue to work with the club, the PGA TOUR, and hopefully have a great weekend and hopefully are able to finish 72 holes. 

Q.   Do you think the date change from February to November affected this or had a role to play?
JOE MAZZEO:   Well, we are in the Caribbean.   As someone who lives and spends a lot of time here, I know this happens all the time.   Just because it's November doesn't mean it's always like this. 
The last three or four weeks before the event we've had really sunny conditions, great conditions, which allowed you to see the great shape of the course like you did earlier this week.
We saw the quick turnaround in getting the players back out onto the course and getting them out to play.   And not only getting them out to play, but safely and quickly.   The volunteers, the staff, their preparation, that helps a lot with being prepared for situations like this. 
The last few years we have been prepared.   We just haven't needed to use those preparations. 
Thank you for being here.   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT