ANA INSPIRATION
September 13, 2020
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Rounds of 67 and 68 over the weekend respectively to close out the ANA Inspiration.  How did it feel to string that together here?
 STACY LEWIS:   It was good.  I think any Sunday bogey-free here is a good day.  Just kind of the story of the week.  I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in.  A couple of those fall, we're a different story right now.  But just really happy with the way I played in general.
 Q. We talked earlier this week just about your performances over the years here and how much you like Mission Hills.  Dating back to your amateur days, this was your sixth top-5 finish here in this event.  You just love it.
 STACY LEWIS:   I do.  I love it when the greens get like they did today.  They were crusty and brown and fast, and it requires that experience, the knowledge of playing here a lot of times.  Playing with Rose today, there was a lot of inexperience there.  I felt like if I could put a good number together today, I could move up a little bit.  Unfortunately just not enough putts.
 Q. I'm sure Rose maybe asked a few questions here or there.  What was it like to play with her and any advice that you provided?
 STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I actually played a practice round with her, nine holes with her on Wednesday, and just really impressed.  She's got a really good game, good head on her shoulders.  I think we're going to be seeing a lot of her here on the LPGA.  We talked about hopefully going to college for a couple years and just having that time to learn and to grow, but just very impressed with her maturity and kind of the way she handled everything.
 Q. A knew week next week, but how much momentum can you take into the Cambia event?
 STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I've won there, so I'm super excited with the way I'm hitting the ball.  That golf course next week you have to hit it straight, so I don't know, I keep saying it, I think in every interview, I just like the way I'm playing right now.  Just got to keep chipping away at it.
 Q. When you saw a course like this in major championship form, what does it lend itself to for next week to prepare yourself for not a major week but a little different of a course, as well?
 STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I think the hardest part will be kind of getting out of that par mindset and going and making some birdies because usually a lot under par wins there.  Just getting out of that mindset.  But you know, just thankful that we had this week to play ANA and Mission Hills, and I was so impressed with the golf course this time of the year.  I think they did an unbelievable job of getting it ready for us.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT