U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2016
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pretty good day out there.  Tell us about it.  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was a really good day.  I knew it was going to take something pretty low to win, but played solid again.  Just hit a lot of good shots, especially on the back nine, just couldn't quite get the putts to fall.   
But I played well every day this week.  And pretty happy with the finish.   
 Q.  You're in the top-10 and another strong finish for you.  As the day started, what were you thinking to yourself, was there a score in mind?  
STACY LEWIS: I thought -- I mean, to start the day, I thought if you could get to six or seven, you'd probably have a pretty good chance.  With this wind and this golf course later in the day and with the pressure of the leaders, I knew they weren't going to get too far away.  And obviously Anna showed that the score was out there, that it was out there today.  It's just nice for me -- I played some really good golf this week and I'm really happy with it.   
 Q.  Having Brittany right on the edge, you being right near the top, how does it feel seeing American golf being right there at a U.S. Open?  
STACY LEWIS: It was awesome.  More than anything, I liked seeing the Texans on the leaderboard, between me and Lang and Stanford.  Maybe playing in the wind growing up helped us little bit.  It's great to see those girls play well, especially Lang, she plays well on courses you have to hit shots on.  That's what she's done, and hopefully she can pull it out.   
 Q.  Only a couple more weeks until the Olympics, anything major you plan on working on?  Any changes?  
STACY LEWIS: No, I'm just so glad the qualifying for it is over, that I'm actually going, and get to talk about going and being there.  I'm just going there to enjoy that week.  I don't want to go there and grind and stress too much because it's just a week that it's more of a celebration of the game.  And that's what I'm looking forward to.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT