CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
July 2, 2016
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice round.  What went well for you?  You drove the ball well.
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, hit the ball pretty good today.  Had a couple pretty short tap-in birdies.  Hit some close iron shots, which definitely helps.
Just started making the putts that I haven't been making and took better advantage of the par-5s.  Just played a little bit better today.
Q. You had bounce backs on both bogeys, right, to birdie the next hole?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I bounced back quick, which I usually do, so I was glad to do that.
The big thing for me was I birdied three of the par-5s.  Prior to today I hadn't birdied any of the par -- s, so that was a big goal coming into today.
Q. Do you have a notion of how far back you might have to be or how close you need to be to catch Brooke?
STACY LEWIS: I mean, catching the leader is hard.  I was pretty shocked to know I was in I think 27th with where I was yesterday.  Just saw it is as opportunity to move up the board.
You never know what can happen on the back nine on this golf course.  The greens are getting really firm.  Just got to hang around.
I at least put myself in a position that if I shoot a good round tomorrow and get some help from the leaders, who knows what happens.
Q. Few years ago you did that 72 holes without a bogey here.
STACY LEWIS: Uh-huh.
Q. Have you done that since?
STACY LEWIS: No.  Haven't even come close.  (Laughter.)
Q. You decided to chip on 18.  Was that just because of the hop?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was just a hard shot there.  These greens are tricky.  Was pretty fortunate to make an up-and-down.  It was a good par.  Nice way to finish the day.
Q. What are you doing the rest of the day to prepare for tomorrow?
STACY LEWIS: Just relaxing.  Hanging out.  Probably go do a workout.  Kill a little bit of time.  But, you know, be packing up.  We got to pack up and move on to the U.S. Open tomorrow.  So kind of pack up and get everything ready to go.
Q. You had a lot of hometown stuff last week.  Isn't it nice to come to a regular tournament?
STACY LEWIS: This is awesome.  It is.  Last week was crazy.  Going forward the U.S. Open is going to be crazy.  And then I have Toledo which is where I was born and it's a sponsor event, so that's going to be crazy.  Then International Crown, the British.
So this is my week that I could just chill, and it's been a great week so far.
Q. I'm doing a piece on this tournament, which is tied for the longest-running tournament.  You've played a lot of times in it.  Talk about how it's run.
STACY LEWIS: I think it's a great event.  You know, I've always enjoyed coming to this area.  I played well at the U.S. Am out at Pumpkin Ridge.  I've always kind of had good vibes coming back here.
When we actually moved to this course here I was really happy.  I think this is a great test of golf for us.  It's a great golf course.  Great for the fans to see what's going on.  Just look around.  As far as what they do for the fans, and they take care of our caddies, they take care of us.  I wish they got a better place in the schedule.
Q. Yeah, this year was bad.
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, that's the only thing that kind of hurts them right now, but it's an event I always like to come to.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT