KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 9, 2016
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Looks like there was quite a crowd out there?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was fun.  It's always good to play with them.  We were talking we haven't played altogether for a while.  It was good to play with them and see some good golf.  The scores don't show it, but everybody played pretty good.
Q. What do you think of Lydia?  Here's she's going for three in a row and she's 18.  Is that kind of the fearless part of it, you're almost too young, even though we know she's been around a while, but to really know how tough all this is?
STACY LEWIS: I think a lot of things she's figuring out.  I think she's been out here a few years now.  But it's just what she's done all along.  She's kind of done it nonchalantly, and that's just kind of the way she does things.
It's impressive.  Played with her on her first win at 15.  I'm not surprised by it.  Not surprised by the success.  Everything is so solid in her game.
Q. What did you think of the course?
STACY LEWIS: The course was good.  I think a couple par-3s were set up a little silly.  But other than that I thought the setup was pretty good.  It played hard, as it should.  You can make some birdies, but there's definitely lots of trouble out there.
Q. Were you surprised that for the morning group you guys had pretty perfect conditions.  That 4 under right now is at the top of the leaderboard, and that person is not even done yet?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I thought anything around par you'd be within a shot or two of the lead.  This golf course is hard.  The greens are so firm.  You're hitting long shots in, and then if you hit it in the trees you're in even more trouble.  There's a lot of elements there.  And the greens being firm is probably the hardest part of it.
Q. What are your thoughts about the Olympics?  I missed yesterday when you guys were talking about that.  I know you still want to obviously qualify.  Any concerns at all about going down there?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, definitely concerned.  The Zika thing is a serious deal.  My thing is they don't know the long-term effects of it, that's the scariest part for me.
Hopefully I'm on the team come July 11th, and then we'll make a decision.  I don't think there's a need to make a decision right now.  If it gets better, if it gets worse down there, hopefully they'll tell us.
Q. At this point you are still a little uncertain if you did make it, whether you'd go or not?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I wouldn't say I'm a hundred percent going.  It's just so hard.  As an athlete how do you pass up the Olympics?  It's unfortunate that we're the ones that have to make a decision.  You'd almost like to see a governing body or somebody like that kind of put their foot down and say, no, we're not going.  But there's too much money in it, I don't think that will ever happen.  It's hard being an athlete, that's your dream, and to say you're not going to go, it's a hard decision to make.
Q. Can you talk about Inbee and what she's brought to the LPGA Tour?
STACY LEWIS: She raised the bar.  Inbee did something that I don't know if anybody has ever done with winning all the majors.  And the amount of majors she won in a short time span was the impressive part to me.  And especially this one, winning on three different golf courses three years in a row.  That's impressive in itself.
She's raised the bar.  You look at all the young Koreans that are coming out on Tour now because they saw what Inbee did a few years ago.  She's changed golf in Korea, and helped raise the bar on the Tour here.
Q. What do you respect most about her game?
STACY LEWIS: Just that she did it without -- not much of a show.  She just went out there and played golf.  And didn't need the entourage or all the glitz and the glamour of it.  She just went out and played golf and stayed the same person throughout the whole thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT