JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 18, 2016
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was better.  Better on the greens.
Q. What kind of started it?
STACY LEWIS: It was the putter.  I made a little putter switch from yesterday.  Actually, I probably hit more greens yesterday than I did today, but just made some more putts and just played really solid.
Q. What was the switch?
STACY LEWIS: Well, it was my TaylorMade that I've been playing since, gosh, 2012.  And then I switched to this Happy Putter, is what it's called, and I've been working with a guy kind of since CME on it, and he's been telling me for three or four months now that I line this thing up perfect.  That's what I was struggling with yesterday was my alignment.  I just figured why not give it a go?  I spent about an hour and a half yesterday working on it, and came out early this morning and putted some more with it and felt pretty comfortable with it, and it worked.
Q. What's it called?
STACY LEWIS: It's called a Happy Putter.
Q. Is it a specially made thing?
STACY LEWIS: The biggest thing about it is they're developing this putter, and they're using players to develop it basically, but everything with it is adjustable.  Like a driver is adjustable.  Everything with it is adjustable.  So you can adjust the offset, the lie, the kind of alignment tool aid you want to have, the weight, the softness, the firmness, the face, the loft of it.  So the consumers, once they develop it, will be able to do that, and it uses the same kind of tool aslike with the drivers.
Q. So it's kind of like still in prototype stage?
STACY LEWIS: It's prototyped kind of for players.  So they've got a handful of players out here they're using to get data off of it to figure out what they're going to put to consumers.
Q. And this is the first time you've put it in competition?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, this is the first full round I've played with it.  I've played a round with it at home.
Q. So it will be out there tomorrow?
STACY LEWIS: I'll definitely have it out there tomorrow.  I couldn't get comfortable lining up my other putter.  If I line this one up good, I think the stroke kind of works itself out.
Q. Is it a blade?
STACY LEWIS: No, it's a mallet.  It's pretty big.  I don't know where Travis went.  He's on the putting green if you want to look at it.  He basically took my old putter and kind of went off that same style and developed it.  It's bigger than my old one, but it rolls really good.
Q. Are you one that will experiment a lot with putters?
STACY LEWIS: No.  I mean, I hardly ever change.  I mean, that putter -- I won the ANA with one putter, and then the rest of my wins have been with that TaylorMade that I took out.  That was the hardest part for me was taking that out of the bag just because I had success with it.
Q. What was that TaylorMade specific one?
STACY LEWIS: It was called the railer.  The golf course, I wish it wasn't as soft as it is this year.  That's why the scores are what they are.  Usually, it's firmer and it's more of a challenge.  When it's soft like this, it's just target golf, and I think it takes away the kind of quirkiness of this golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT