JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 19, 2016
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Stacy, switching to a new putter a couple of rounds ago you have a total of 16 birdies.  I know how you are.  It's hard to change.  What made you decide to finally pull the trigger?  
STACY LEWIS: I putted terrible.  And I putted terrible on Thursday and I haven't really made that many putts this year, and truthfully the guy that made the putter for me, he's been telling me for four months about how (inaudible) and that's what I was struggling with on Thursday.  So just kind of said why not.   
 Q.  Looking at the numbers, too, the ball striking, everything tee to greens looked really solid.  Do you feel like it's taken an upswing the last few days?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it's been really good.  I hit it good on Thursday.  But I definitely started hitting better shots when you know you can make a 10- or 15-footer.  It just kind of frees you up and allows you to be a little more aggressive.   
 Q.  Do you have a number in mind for tomorrow?  
STACY LEWIS: No.  These scores are just ridiculous.  So you just can't look as a leaderboard and you just go out there and make as many birdies as you can.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
STACY LEWIS: I don't know.  I just -- I guess the golf course just fits my eye.  I mean you have to hit good shots to get rewarded for it.  And then I read the greens really well, and just, I mean the last two days they're starting to line.  I don't really know what it is, but I mean I'm just really happy to see some good scores going up.   
 Q.  You talk about the scores are just ridiculous.  How surprised are you that they're this low?  
STACY LEWIS: I'm not surprised.  The golf course is as soft as I've ever seen it, so it's just playing target golf.  You know, you'd like it to be a little more firm so you have to think a little bit.  But it is what it is and you gotta go out there and must make birdies.   
 Q.  How much of this also may be your love of the Founders?  Is there a little maybe extra inspiration too this week?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah.  This week it's really special to me.  I've gotten to know the Founders the last few years, especially Marilynn; and just being around them, you see the love and the energy that they have for this game still and our tour, and it's just a really special week.  And I love -- you know, I would definitely say I was one of the skeptics at first, you know, with playing for free and the whole thing, but this tournament is a home run and it's just really cool for the rookies to get to know the Founders and the reason that they get to play every day.   
 Q.  You've been in position where you've had a lead on courses that are playing this soft, kind of target golf.  Is it tough to play that aggressive on Sunday when you have maybe a two- or three-shot lead?  
STACY LEWIS: You know, it's hard when scores are low and you have a lead because people go out and get 6-under through nine holes and all of a sudden they're tied for the lead.  But you just have to stay patient.  I think at one point when I made the turn I was tied for 15th and I was playing okay.  So you just have to stay patient and not look at the leaderboard, and I did a good job of that today.   
 Q.  You've been in this position lots of times on Saturdays going into a chance to win.  Is it different sleeping on the lead versus sleeping just off the lead with a chance to win?  What are the differences?  
STACY LEWIS: You know, it's different depending on the type of golf course you're playing.  If you're at a U. S. Open where it's playing hard you want to be sleeping with the lead.  But to have that one or two shots.  You know, here where the scores are just crazy low it's hard to sleep on a lead because you know you have to go out there and shoot a number and if you're two or three back, you know you can just go fire away because you know you gotta go shoot a 64 or 65.  I think when I won here I was four back going into the final round.  So in a way being a couple back allows you to free it up a little bit, I think.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT