NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2020
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Stacy Lewis, solid 3-under par round out there today.  Tell us what went right.
STACY LEWIS:   Well, it was easy.  Really didn't have to work too hard for it.  Probably could have been a couple better if I had gotten a couple putts to fall.  It was really solid tee to green and just an easy day.
Q. Tell us a little bit about the weather delay, where you were and how you handled it when you came back.
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, so we were right on 18 making the turn when it started getting pretty dark.  So my housing is right off the first tee, so I just went over there and hung out.  We knew it was going to be pretty quick though and it's hot enough that a little hour break doesn't really affect you too much.
Q. How were you able to stay patient on your front nine, especially with your playing partner going so low?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, Sei Young, I mean, everything, every putt was just dead center.  It was unbelievable to watch.  Just I mean good, solid golf.  Even when we know came back from the restart she was playing good there, too.  Just kind of a little hiccup there on 8.
It was impressive.  You felt like you were shooting a million over par playing with her.  No, I just kept trying to chip away at it.  Our back nine, which was the front nine, played a lot harder.  The wind picked up and 7, 8 were all into the wind and played pretty tough.
So I'm really happy with the end result.
Q. And strategy for tomorrow knowing where you sit on the leaderboard?
STACY LEWIS:   Birdies.  I think the more rain we get the softer this place is gonna be.  It's going to take some birdies and some patience with the weather.  I think we're going to be dealing with that over the next 24 hours, so just patience and making a lot of birdies.
Q. How different was No. 17.  You hit a shot up close and kind of silence there.
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, that's when you really think about the fans not being here, are those finishing holes.  And even 18.  People are making eagles like crazy, and how much fun that would be for the fans to see.
But, man, we were talking about how loud it would have been on a Friday afternoon late in the day and hitting it close.  It would've been pretty sweet.
Q. On a scale of one to ten, how good was your bunker shot on 8 right there?
STACY LEWIS:   That was probably -- difficulty-wise it was probably 7 or 8, so to hit it to tap-in was pretty sweet.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT