SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 10, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pretty good round to get right back in the thick of it.  Had to be pretty pleased with that one.  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was just nice to follow up the round yesterday with a good one today.  Didn't really make this many putts but hit a lot of shots close.   
Need another good one like that tomorrow.   
 Q.  Shanshan showed you can come from behind on this golf course; is that pretty accurate?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, this golf course is just a shootout.  It's just who is going to make the most birdies at the end of the week.  Just nice to be back somewhere close to the lead and hopefully just within a few shots going into tomorrow.   
 Q.  What happened on day one, and what's changed since then?  It's very unusual to see you shoot over par ever.  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I mean, I didn't hit anything close.  I had 30-, 40-footers all day and made a little adjustment to the swing.  Wasn't anything major.  Just got myself to free it up these last couple days.   
 Q.  Pretty amazing leaderboard up there, too with you, Lydia.  Inbee is right up there.  Korda is at the top.  Make it even more fun on a Sunday.  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I don't know what it is this tournament.  Seems like ever year it's a stacked leaderboard.  You have a lot of good winners here.  It's a golf course you got to hit good shots on, and that's what you see.   
And it is fun to have that many good players in the mix.   
 Q.  Morgan shot 8-under today.  What's realistic out here?  
STACY LEWIS: I think 8-under is, I mean, very realistic, but you can't go on this golf course and try to make birdies.  The moment you try to make a birdie your short-sided in the bunker.   
It's just staying patient and getting some putts to fall.   
 Q.  Another Sunday where you're in contention.  Feeling pretty good about that?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, have to say I haven't been there in a while.  It's been a little bit of a frustrating year.  It's nice to be back.  Hopefully I can put another good one together tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT