SOLHEIM CUP
September 19, 2015
Stacy Lewis
Gerina Piller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  All these smiles and obviously they should be.  7-under par, how important was that stretch starting on No. 7?  
GERINA PILLER: It was huge.  I think just getting the momentum going, we just kind of rode it.   
 Q.  Stacy, your record thus far isn't what reflects on the player you've proven yourself to be on the world stage.  Did you find a partner you really like today?  
STACY LEWIS: I did.  I've been asking to play with her all week.  I just thought our games would mesh really well.  She hits it so far and so straight, just kind of teed it up for me.  We played great.  We made the key putts, though.  That was the thing, we made some really key putts, especially after they won the hole early.  It was awesome.  Nice to see some putts to go in today.   
 Q.  I don't know if you have any way of knowing what the other teams are doing out there with the lack of scoreboards.  But your first match was down early and a lot.  And you guys came in today two points down.  Did you know how important your match was going to be when all the points are added up after this round of matches?  
STACY LEWIS: Absolutely.  I think every match is just as important as the last one.  There's one thing I've always believed in was taking care of your own self and taking care of what you have control over.  That was my main thing today, come out here and take control, taking care of our match.  And we did that, so it's pretty awesome.   
 Q.  Congratulations on a very commanding performance out there.  How does it feel to get a point for your team?  
STACY LEWIS: It's awesome.  More than anything, it was nice to see some putts go in.  I don't think any of our teams saw that yesterday.  And Gerina got us going this morning, got some momentum going our way.  We both played well today and partnered up really good together.   
 Q.  You were right there this morning and played really good golf.  Tell me about your game.  You're obviously feeling very confident on the golf course.  
GERINA PILLER: Yeah, I'm hitting my irons really well, and I hit my driver and seeing some putts go in, that's always huge.  The confidence is definitely riding high this week and I'm just going to ride it out and see what we can do.   
 Q.  Your first Solheim Cup point alongside Stacy.  
GERINA PILLER: To get my first one is pretty cool.   
 Q.  Feeling momentum going into the afternoon, Stacy?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, for sure.  We got some momentum back this morning.  We knew every match this morning, every match from here on out is going to be important.  We played some good golf, and I think you'll see some good golf this afternoon.   
 Q.  You played very well this morning and you kept it going.  Really impressive victory there.  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, thanks.  It's just one of those things where you just kind of get to playing good and your strokes groove.  And it's one of those things you don't think about, you just hit it and it's going where you're looking.   
 Q.  You really caught fire.  What do you think that was?  
STACY LEWIS: I think just meshing together, hitting -- just getting a good rhythm.  Hitting the fairway, hitting the green, make the putt.  So it just kind of -- we just kind of really got in a really good rhythm and that's huge out here.   
 Q.  The day started off, Europe looked like they were in a commanding position, but USA really pulled them back.  Perhaps there was a slight change in events?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, in our team room this morning, when Gerina was out there, it was definitely a change in momentum.  You could see some pep in everyone's step.  It was a late night and an early morning.  We needed to see some putts going in.   
We definitely took that momentum out here on the golf course.  We took care of business.  We went out and played good golf, and that's what ultimately wins matches.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT