CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 23, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not the way that you wanted to finish, but overall sum up the day and getting yourself in position to be in that playoff?  
STACY LEWIS: Well, if you would have told me at the beginning of the day, I was going to be in a playoff, I would have been pretty happy.   
Just with the way my game has been over the last month or so, I felt I was close to putting together a good round, and that's what I did today.  Still left a few out there.  But would have liked a better lie in the rough in the playoff, but other than that, it was pretty good.   
 Q.  That finish, birdieing two out of the last three to get yourself up there into that tie, what was your mentality there coming down the stretch?  
STACY LEWIS: Just coming off 15 making bogey, my goal was to get to 13-under.  When I was kind of looking at the leaderboard, I knew I needed to get to 13.  Almost holed it on 16 and then hit a great shot into 17.  Went for the make on 18 and fortunate to make the 6-footer coming back.   
But I knew with Lydia, you have got to post a number that's better than what she's at on the golf course.   
 Q.  I read on Twitter that you fist-bumped on the tee on 18.  The amount of respect you have for each other, is there something to be said being in a playoff with somebody who you respect their talent and what they do out there?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I mean, we've just played so much golf together.  We are just both comfortable out there playing together and both comfortable being in a playoff.  We've been there before.  Just good friends and she's easy to play with.  I played with her here when she was 15 when she won.  Just a good person to play with.   
 Q.  Just overall now, she's won three out of the last four at this event.  How impressive is that for somebody to be able to do that, especially when two of her wins came as an amateur and what she's been able to do?  
STACY LEWIS: You don't see that a whole lot at the Canadian Open just because we are moving golf courses every year.   
I don't know what it is with the style of golf courses up here but she just seems to like them.  This golf course specifically, you have to putt it really good and have good speed on the greens.  That's one of the things she does the best.   
 Q.  Now, eyes turned, you've got an event this next week but this is the end of Solheim Cup points for this week.  Now seeing this team come together, how excited are you to be heading to Germany in a few weeks?  
STACY LEWIS: I'm really excited.  I'm more excited now that I'm playing a little bit better.  Gets you more excited for it.  Just talking about it over the last week and who is going to make the team, who's not.  I really like the way our team is coming together.  I like the way a lot of the girls are playing.  We have got some drama for some picks coming up tomorrow, but I think our team is in a good spot and I like the way it came together.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT