MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 18, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about coming back after the rain delay and trying to keep your focus. 
STACY LEWIS:   It was actually kind of nice.   I was pretty tired out there.   Just felt a little sluggish today.   Actually took a little nape during the delay and came back with some energy and finished it out pretty good.

Q.   Who does that?   Who takes a nap in the middle of an afternoon when you're playing golf?
STACY LEWIS:   Someone that's been really busy the last two months.   It's been a long couple of months, and definitely feeling it a little bit on the course.
But, you know, try to finish it out tomorrow.   Hopefully you'll have some good momentum going into the British.

Q.   The shot on 18 was a nice way to finish your round.   Feel pretty good about where you are now or not?
STACY LEWIS:   It's close.   There are swings that make you think, oh, you're there, and then you hit the next one and it's not there.   I think a lot of that is fatigue at this point.
So get rested up ‑‑ finish up good tomorrow and then get ready for the British. 

Q.   You talked about your frustration last two days and the quality of play.   Getting any better for you today?
STACY LEWIS:   No, not really.   I mean, just the game, it's been so up and down.   Just hasn't been as consistent as usual. 
The good things is I finish every round off good.   That's what want, is to fight out some tough good rounds.   Hopefully post a good number tomorrow and see what happens.

Q.   You mentioned the nap and the two bogeys you had.   Was that before the weather delay?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it was before the delay, but actually had two really good putts.   Had one lip out and come back at me. 
In my head it didn't really feel like you made bogey when you hit the putts the way you want to.

Q.   So obviously as you mentioned earlier the weather delay was something you embraced.
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I was excited about the delay.   I think most people weren't, but it was a much‑needed delay.   I could get little bit of rest, get some food in me, and felt a lot better coming out there at the end. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT