MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 15, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome Stacy Lewis to the media center.   Toledo born.   I know you grew up in Texas, but Toledo born.   Seems like every week you've got almost a hometown stop here.
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it's another one.   It's been a busy I guess last two months between sponsor events or hometowns or whatever.   The last two months have been really busy.   This is kind of the end of all that. 
But my game is in a really good spot, and I'm excited to be here.   I have a lot of family out again.   Get a lot of family time this week.   It's a fun week.
While I'm a little bit tired coming off the U.S. Open, I feel good about where my game is at, you know, that I don't need to wear myself out too much this week.

Q.   Will the nephew be running around this week?
STACY LEWIS:   Yes.   My niece and nephew will be here.   The Lew Crew will be out in full force.   All my cousins, one of my cousins just got married, so the group keeps growing.   It'll be fun.   It's always nice to play in front of your family like that. 
And to play with Morgan this week, big hometown event for her as well.   I think quite a few people with our group.
THE MODERATOR:   T3 the last two weeks.   I know you said there was about a month there where you weren't happy with your game.   What changed? 
STACY LEWIS:   Really the weekend I missed the cut at ManuLife, called my instructor and said, I need you to meet me in New York.   It was prior to Westchester, and we really broke down my golf swing and said, What has made me successful over the last two years?   We need to get back to that. 
We were experimenting a little bit too much in trying some things, and we were going the wrong direction.   So I put a stop to it pretty quick and we got things back on track.   Golf swing feels a hundred times better, and it's finally just going out there playing golf again, which I haven't been doing that for the last six months.
THE MODERATOR:   What were some of those things you wanted to get back to? 
STACY LEWIS:   The position at the top of my golf swing, my hands tend to get really high.   Doing things in the takeaway, doing things in the order of the backswing, stuff like that, gets your hands down a little bit lower.
It's something I've fought since I was a kid, so it's not really anything different.   But it's just a challenge.   It's hard to work yourself out of something like that when you were doing it.   The fact was the beginning of the year I was playing tentative golf.   I was playing golf to not hit it a certain place instead of trying to hit it to a certain place. 
It was just very defensive, and that's not the way I play my game.   I eventually just got tired of it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   (Question regarding British Open.)
STACY LEWIS:   I'm excited obviously to be playing well, but we've already, even on the range yesterday with my coach, started talking about British and different types of shots we're going to need there.   Being able to control the spin on the ball is really the big thing going into the British.   Already getting some of those shots in my head.
I haven't played it yet.   From what I've heard, it's one of the best ones we'll ever get to play, so I'm excited to get over and check it out. 

Q.   (Regarding last week's finish.)
STACY LEWIS:   You know, wasn't disgusted.   Just a little bit disappointed.   You're out there to obviously win.   You're not there to finish second or third, so definitely a little bit disappointed.
But if you would have asked me a month ago, Would you take third place in the U.S. Open?   I would've said yes.   So once you digest it and look back, I did a lot of good things last week.   I was really two swings away from having a chance to really win the thing coming up 18.
So I did too many good things to be upset about last week.   I was proud of the way I handled myself, the way I handled the pressure.   I think I had 80% of the crowd pulling for me there, so it was a lot of pressure.
Everybody wants you to win and do well, so it's not always easy to play in those circumstances. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I think we're all searching.   We all think we can get better.   As golfers, we're all searching for ways to get better.   Mine was not a complete overhaul of my golf swing.   There is a level of where my club can be at the top of the backswing, and it's not one specific spot.   It can be in a range of spots. 
But if it starts creeping to the high part of the range, that's when we need to dial it back and get it back in there.   I wasn't looking for an overhaul.   That's not anywhere close to what my golf changes have been. 
We all think we can get better.   We're all perfectionists at an imperfect game.   We're all searching, and sometimes you play some great golf and sometimes you just want a challenge, too. 

Q.   (No microphone.) 
STACY LEWIS:   I think in the past I have.   I think I've learned to handle the pressure a little bit better.   Because it is, it's pressure coming to play in front of people.   When people really want you to do well, you put more pressure on yourself.
I come in now a little bit more relaxed, used to handling everything that goes along with it and being busy and having extra things to do.   You just do it.   You don't complain, you just do it.   It's kind of part of the deal. 
I just think over time I've gotten better with it. 
THE MODERATOR:   I want to ask you about the three‑year sponsorship, the extension of this tournament.   How proud are you of that? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I'm just proud that I was able to get Marathon on board.   They've been really pleased with the last couple years so far.   I played with Gary, the CEO today, and we were already talking about things to make this tournament even bigger and better.
Just their commitment to the LPGA.   I mean, they want to have a Solheim Cup here.   They got a lot of things floating out there on possibilities, what we could bring here to Toledo. 
Just the support and the belief in me, you know, asking me, Why should I sponsor an LPGA tournament?   And he has enough belief in me to jump on board and do it is really pretty cool. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
STACY LEWIS:   You know, sometimes people think 30 years is a bad thing.   I think it's a great thing.   I think as players you come back and you're used to everything.   You're used to where to go and what to do.   Everyone has families that they stay with.   I think I that's cool about it.
I was here a couple weeks ago at my cousin's wedding and was talking with Judd about it.   Yeah, just started this thing on a whim and wanted to bring a tournament here.   Just amazing how this story all started. 
And then keeping it going six or seven years ago with the recession and all that, it's amazing.   Don't have many tournaments that make to this long.   We should celebrate it.   We thanked the sponsors last night at the gala dinner.   It's something we should do and keep doing.

Q.   The men's British Open is over at St. Andrews where you won.   What do you remember about that week and what stands out?
STACY LEWIS:   I love that golf course.   I love seeing it on TV.   It just brings back so many memories.   I can't wait to watch it in the morning before I go play.
Actually, I stayed at the Dunvagen when I was there.   She knows.   She actually sent me a picture somebody took when I was making the winning putt. 
It was really cool.   The ball is just hanging on the edge about to go in, I've got my putter out extended, and my caddie is down there like this.   It's just the coolest picture ever.   Just brings back a lot of memories.
I love the golf course and the test of it, so I can't wait to see what the guys do with it. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
STACY LEWIS:   The golf course, I think it's always a little wet when we come here.   Seems to rain a lot when we come here.   It's a little wet, as always.   The greens are good as I think I've ever seen them, fast as they've ever been. 
I think more of a premium of hitting it below the holes this week.   There are a lot of greens with some slope, some fast greens, that will jump up and get you.   So a premium on that.
But the greens are tricky to read.   I think you hit a lot of good putts that don't go in on these greens.   This golf course tests my patience every year for this reason.   Hopefully I can manage that a little bit better. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you for coming in, Stacy. 
STACY LEWIS:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT