U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE TROSTEL: It's my pleasure to welcome Stacy Lewis into the media center.  Stacy had rounds of 69 and 67, a 36 hole total of 136, 4-under par, and currently tied for second place in the championship.  Third consecutive round of 60s in the U.S. Women's Open, played great today.  You really seemed to have the game going.  You were 2-over through 12 holes yesterday.  The last 24 holes you've been 6-under.  Did you figure something out in the game or just start to play a little better?   STACY LEWIS: I just started playing golf, is really what it was.  I was thinking a lot those first ten, 11 holes, thinking a lot about my golf swing and just not playing.  So I got to just playing golf these last -- this last round and a half, I guess.  And it's what you're seeing in the scores. I hit the irons today probably the best I've hit them in a really long time, so it was really nice.   MIKE TROSTEL: It was really a ball-striking clinic out there, hitting your first 16 greens.  Can you take us through your card a little bit starting on 10?  You started bogey, 14, but then really started getting it going after that with a birdie on 15.   STACY LEWIS: I three-putted 14, putt was just the fastest putt I've had on any of these greens, I don't know what happened there. But came right back, hit a great I think it was a 7-iron into 15, made about a 6-footer. 17, hit a 5-iron into about two feet, which is always nice.  Then making the turn, I really like that second hole, for some reason.  But almost holed it out there, and hit it to -- 8-iron to about a foot. And then hit a lot of good iron shots in between there.  I made kind of a huge breaking putt on 4 for birdie. 6, another good 5-iron on the par-3 to about five feet.  So overall the ball-striking was there.  I definitely left some opportunities out there with the putter but at the end of the day those greens -- the greens didn't quite hold up at the end of the day, just with all the traffic and all the moisture on them.   MIKE TROSTEL: Putting is usually the strength of your game.  But it seems like it's really been the ball-striking this week, here, third in greens in regulation.  Just a clinic on the back nine today.  Talk a little bit about, seems like you're in position again at a major championship as you were last year.  What are you trying to do going into the weekend?   STACY LEWIS: Well, it's hitting fairways on this golf course.  I've been playing a lot of fades off the tees just to keep it in play because I think being ten yards closer in the rough doesn't help you.  So just trying to keep it in the fairway.  And hopefully make some putts.  These greens are just so tough with the speed of them versus the amount of slope.  It's just really hard to get it just perfect.   Q.  After you dropped to even there on 14 did something mentally change for you that allowed you to go on the run that you did?  STACY LEWIS: No, I just started hitting some better -- not really better iron shots, but just started hitting the iron shots in better places where I was having the uphill putts versus the downhill sliders.  And that's really the best thing about my game right now is that I have the control of the irons to hit it on the uphill side or downhill side.  I haven't had that control the last few weeks.  So I kept at it.  I didn't let the three-putt on 14 get to me.   Q.  What changes did you notice in the greens between yesterday morning and this afternoon?  STACY LEWIS: You know, other than just the last four or five holes they got pretty bumpy, but the speed was maybe half a foot slower.  I didn't think they were dramatically slower than yesterday.  I thought the hole locations were a little bit tougher today.  The hole locations were on some steeper slopes so it was a little bit -- it was harder to make putts.  It was harder to get yourself to hit the putt hard enough for it to break. I think all in all I didn't have a lot of mud on the ball.  The course wasn't that wet.  Considering what went through here yesterday the golf course I thought was in really good shape.   Q.  What do you think the biggest challenge is going to be tomorrow?  STACY LEWIS: Staying patient, not trying to get ahead of yourself.  I think at any major that's what it is, especially Amy's three shots ahead.  So to just not try to force anything.  When you're a couple back of the lead at a normal tournament you can think let's go and try to make some birdies.  But here you just can't try to make birdies, you've got to try to hit good shots and that's what I need to keep telling myself tomorrow.   MIKE TROSTEL: Stacy Lewis, 4-under par, 136.  Second place after two rounds.  Good luck on the weekend.   STACY LEWIS: Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT