KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 13, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Seeing the leaders where they are at, do you feel like you are still within striking distance going into the final round?  STACY LEWIS: No, not really.  I really played pretty poorly today, kind of especially those last few holes, got myself out of it.  If you're within probably five or six, I think you've got a shot.  But they are playing some pretty good golf behind me, so kind of unfortunately shot myself out of it a little bit today.   Q.  Do you feel like 5 was a shot you could have taken advantage of, I think 5 was the miss on the birdie there?  STACY LEWIS: Like the fifth hole?  Oh, gosh, I don't even remember what the fifth hole is right now.  I had a lot of missed opportunities today.  I hit a lot of good shots.  Just they didn't end up in the right places or just went over the green or I was in divots.  I hit good shots.  Just didn't get anything out of the round.  Just was forcing to scramble all day.  It was a long day.  It was pretty tough.   Q.  Those players tomorrow that will be trying to win a major for the first time, you've been through that; what will they be going through?  STACY LEWIS: It's a little hard to sleep at night.  You're kind of anxious and just want to get started.  I think the way this golf course is playing, I don't know how much you're really going to be thinking about that.  Especially the way it looks like Inbee and say young are kind of going back and forth.  I think when you're battling somebody like that, you kind of forget about what it's for and you're just trying to beat that person.   Q.  Does that make it easier a little bit maybe?  STACY LEWIS: Yeah, in a way it makes it easier.  When I won my first major at the Kraft Nabisco, it was just Yani and I going back and forth.  In a way it was easier because I didn't have to worry about anybody else.   Q.  For those players that are six shots back, what's going to be the difficulty for them tomorrow?  STACY LEWIS: Just not trying to be too aggressive, if you be too aggressive on this golf course, you can get short-sided really quick.  I think for somebody to make a run, they are going to need to make some eagles on the par 5s and make some putts.  That's really what it's going to come down to.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT