VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
April 30, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How wet is it?  
STACY LEWIS:   You know, it's dried out quite a bit, but still, it's nothing compared to‑‑ it's not nearly as dry as we've had the last couple years here.   The golf course is very different, but it's definitely playable.  
   
 Q.   You can't defend and win again on Thursday, but if you're going to do it, how happy are you with your score on this Thursday?  
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I'm very pleased with it.   Just the front nine, I just didn't get anything going, so I was happy to make some birdies there at the end, and like I said, under par is a good score on this golf course.   I don't see a super low score out there.  
   
 Q.   You talked a little bit about how this course has shaped up.   How difficult was it playing today compared to the last few days?  
STACY LEWIS:   It's definitely drier than the last couple of days, but you're still getting quite a bit of mud.   But the one thing is the greens have been rolling great all week.   That hasn't been an issue, so you have no excuse for not making putts.  
   
 Q.   Overall how did you feel about your game today?  
STACY LEWIS:   I felt pretty good about it.   There were definitely some ups and downs in it.   Putting was a little rusty on the front but kind of got some things working there on the back nine, and I think just anything under par is good on this golf course today.  
   
 Q.   For you we know last year this was the moment when things really kind of got going.   Are you feeling like your game is at that point right now where you could hit one of those strides again?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it's really close right now.   It's been close the last couple weeks.   It's just getting more comfortable with it, more comfortable with seeing good shots come off the club face.   That's honestly what it is.   Not playing quite so defensively, so just freeing it up is really what I need to do.  
   
 Q.   You said this course is playing differently than last year, so does it change how you feel when you're out there on the golf course, because it seems to be playing like a different golf course?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it's just strange to be hitting 4‑ and 5‑irons into greens when we've had 8 and 9 in the past.   That's the biggest difference is you're hitting really long clubs into holes and you're not seeing a lot of birdies just because of that.   You've got to go in there with a different mindset and just play what you've got this week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT