VOLUNTEERS OF AMERICA NORTH TEXAS SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
April 29, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome Stacy Lewis to the media center.   Back as defending champ here, what do you remember about that Sunday last year, 7‑under 64, pretty spectacular round to run away with it by six.   
    STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it was.   It was a really special week last year.   I just remember having my family and having some friends here, just having a lot of people here is really what I remember about it, and obviously getting the win was really special, getting the win here in Texas was really cool, and I'm excited to be back defending.   It's cool to see the pictures and all that kind of stuff from last year, so I'm looking forward to a good week.  
   
 Q.   That really started a crazy run for you, that two‑month stretch of May and June, you won three times, you had two additional top 10s.   What kicked it off here?   What do you feel like got the ball rolling?  
    STACY LEWIS:   Well, I felt like coming into the tournament last year, I was playing well, kind of had some frustrating finishes, so I knew good golf was coming, and it was just kind of one of those things, once I kind of got over the hurdle on Sunday, the floodgates opened, and I'm hoping for that again this year.   I've had some really close finishes again.   I think my worst finish this year has been 15th, if that, I think.   
    It's been another really similar year to last year, pretty consistent, you know, just haven't quite gotten over the hurdle on Sunday.   
   
 Q.   I know you're all about the wins, but you've got to still be pretty pleased with the way you've played golf this year.   
    STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, for sure.   You can't‑‑ it's hard to really complain about it.   I made a lot of money, I'm pretty high on the Money List for not having a win.   I've just got to keep doing what I'm doing because it's working, and I think one of these days it'll all come together on Sunday.   
   
 Q.   How is the golf course compared to last year?  
    STACY LEWIS:   It's a completely different golf course.   It's very wet, very long.   You know, last year was firm and fast, a lot of not hitting drivers off holes, so this year you're just smashing driver everywhere and going and finding it and hitting it again.   It's a long golf course.   It's playing a lot different, but the greens are great.   That's one thing we come here every year, the greens are in great shape, really nice to putt on.   
   
 Q.   Did you get to go to the Solheim Cup dinner on Monday night with the Bushes?  
    STACY LEWIS:   No, I didn't.   I had another engagement so I didn't get to go.  
   
 Q.   Were you pretty bummed when you found out what they got to do?  
    STACY LEWIS:   I kind of‑‑ although I kind of knew what was going on, they wouldn't tell us exactly what was going on.   We kind of all figured it out what was going on just with all the security and the details that were going into it.  
   
 Q.   And you were, again, in a group with Lydia on a Sunday.   Do you two ever get sick of playing golf with each other at this point?  
    STACY LEWIS:   No, she's fun to play with, and she's playing some really good golf right now, so you always want to play with people that are playing their best.   She definitely didn't have her best stuff on Sunday but kind of just found a way to get a few putts to go in at the end.   You know, we kind of laughed when she went into the playoff and I said, if you give Lydia two chances at making birdie with a wedge, she's probably going to beat you.   I wasn't surprised at all to see her pull that out.  
   
 Q.   What impresses you the most about her game?   
    STACY LEWIS:   Just the ability just to get it done at the end.   You know, it doesn't really seem to faze her what's going on or what it means or anything like that.   You know, she just kind of seems to go out there and gets it done.   It's making the short putts, and her wedges are really good.   That's one of the things that I think makes her really good, is that she makes a ton of birdies with the short clubs.   
   
 Q.   You went pretty low last year, but this course was kind of tough on everybody else.   With the conditions the way they are now, would you expect scores to be significantly lower?   
    STACY LEWIS:   It really‑‑ well, it really depends what the officials do with the tees.   If we play it back to the yardages to what we played last year, I think scores will probably be similar if not a little bit higher.   If they move tees up where you're hitting some shorter clubs into holes, I think you can make some birdies with it being a little softer.   
    You know, I've found that you usually kind of even things out when we get a bunch of rain.   I expect scores to be pretty similar.   
   
 Q.   I was just going to follow up on that.   You like the tougher conditions, don't you?   Last year kind of proves that.   
    STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I love it.   I love majors.   That's the thing.   So when it gets‑‑ last year this golf course was hard and fast, and it was windy, and it was tough.   And that's when I seem to play my best golf.   For me I'd like it if they kept it long where you had to hit some hard shots.   The thing about it, too, this year is a lot of those holes last year where our drives were running down in the bottom of the dips, the valleys and you had flat lies, we're going to be hitting off of side‑hill lies this year, which makes the shot just a little bit tougher.   There's some different elements that are going to make this golf course tough.   I don't see it playing that much easier.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Stacy, thank you for coming in.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT