ANA INSPIRATION
April 5, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Stacy Lewis into the interview room at the ANA Inspiration.  It just didn't come out exactly the way that you wanted it to.  How are you feeling after that one?   STACY LEWIS: I mean, I think the initial reaction is disappointed, obviously.  But I played great, and I hit some really good putts there, especially at the end.  Made a great putt on 17.  You know, I just played solid all day, so I have to remind myself of that and not get too frustrated.  It just wasn't quite meant to be today.   Q.  That last shot into 18, it looks like you didn't catch all the ball.  Can you take us through what happened there?  STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was right in the middle of the sand-filled divot, and it was a pretty narrow one, so I knew it was going to come out heavy, obviously.  Just right when the club came down, it just caught both sides of the divot, basically of the turf, and it just killed it.  I got no good contact on the ball, killed all the momentum.  So you don't want to get two steep on it because if you get too steep you send it over the green.  So it was a shot that you had to just pick it perfectly, and unfortunately I didn't quite do that.   Q.  You and Brittany seemed to be going back and forth on the misses.  On that second hole, did you think your putt was in?  STACY LEWIS: Yeah, in regulation I kind of misread that one.  Then first go around I hit a decent putt that just kind of lost speed and so it trailed off at the end.  Then the second go around I thought Brittany's was in.  And I think mine was inside of Brittany's, and neither one of them went in.  So it's really hard when you kind of do everything you think you need to do and it's just not meant to be, and that's golf sometimes.   Q.  (Indiscernible)?  STACY LEWIS: No, I had no clue.  I saw Morgan finished at 8 when we were on 17, and it wasn't until I hit my third shot in that I saw that Brittany made eagle.  So I didn't really watch too many leaderboards today, but I hit a good shot in there and I gave myself plenty of looks.   Q.  How difficult is it to play the same hole four straight times?  STACY LEWIS: If anything, I would have liked for to have gone for it.  Into the wind it just made it pretty boring.  We both hit a driver down in there and then laying up.  But I don't know.  It's almost a little bit easier because you're kind of learning how the green is breaking up there.  I definitely learned on those second and third putts from the one in regulation.  So I mean, if anything, it's kind of good you're playing the same hole.   Q.  We're all so focused now on the finish, but it was a wild, crazy day.  Can you kind of summarize the emotions and what the entire day was like?  STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was crazy.  It was all over the place.  You know, we both played Sei Young -- I can't even think of who I played with right now.  We both played pretty good there on the front.  Kind of went back and forth.  Then for me, things really kind of got going 10, 11, 12, making those birdies.  Then once we got back in that corner around 13, 14, the wind just kind of went crazy on us, couldn't figure out which direction it was going.  It was changing directions.  It changed when we were on 10.  It changed when we were on 16.  It changed when we were on 18, multiple times during the playoffs. So the wind was all over the place today.  I think that was the biggest challenge.  You know, it's a major.  It's nerve-racking, it's hard.  I mean, every putt has pressure on it.  The greens are burned out and baked out, and you try to not leave yourself those 4 and 5-footers, but just with the way the course was playing, you're going to do that.   Q.  Stacy, have you ever been through something like that where there were so many two-shot swings?  We would turn and look and it was another two-shot swing.  STACY LEWIS: Yeah, we went crazy there for a couple holes with birdie-bogey, birdie-bogey.  But that's what this golf course does.  That's if you're one or two behind, you have to tell yourself that because there could be a two-shot swing at any time.  So you know that's why I kept telling myself on the front nine at least.   Q.  How close are you and Brittany, and what was it like to be in a playoff with a friend?  STACY LEWIS: We're good friends.  I don't think she's won in a while, so it's a great win for her.  I don't know.  If anything, I like seeing three American flags at the top of the leaderboard.  I kind of went into it saying an American's going to win this major.  So I think it's a win-win.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT