ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  So on the round, fairly up and down, drove it well, two questionable wedges.  What was going on?  STACY LEWIS: It was up and down.  It definitely could have been worse, it definitely could have been better.  So it was more than anything I thought it was the short game.  You're going to miss some iron shots around here.  You're going to miss a drive.  Just the chipping and putting just wasn't very good.  So I've just got to shore that up. I actually felt pretty comfortable with the swing out there.  I was pretty happy with it in general, so it was just getting the short game in check.   Q.  Given the extreme wind this morning with gusts up to 30, did you feel like maybe you could make a move since it was calm in the afternoon?  Did you feel like you could push a little bit?  STACY LEWIS: No, I don't think so.  I think the golf course is playing a little strange in that the greens are getting really firm.  Fairways are still really soft.  Especially the par-4s on the back.  You're hitting some really long clubs in the greens and they're releasing out a ton.  So in year's past when everything's moving fast, you hit a 9-iron into a firm green, you can hold it.  But if you're hitting a 6-iron into a firm green, it's pretty hard.  So I think the golf course got playing pretty tough there just because it firmed out at the end of the day.   Q.  The greens look responsive, but how are they holding?  STACY LEWIS: You know, they're definitely not what they usually are, especially at the end of the day there they got a little bumpy from all the people walking on them and stuff like that, but in general they do roll pretty good.   Q.  You don't have to play perfect golf, you just have to be around.  Do you feel like you're doing that?  STACY LEWIS: Yeah, the first day of a major, the goal is just to be in it and not shoot yourself out of it, and that's what I kind of had to fight through that today.  I had some shots there at the end that could have gone either way.  So just fought through it today and hopefully will play a little bit better tomorrow.   Q.  Last year at this time you were talking about Paulina on the cover.  There is another provocative cover.  Have you seen Lexi on the cover, and any thoughts that you care to share?  STACY LEWIS: I mean, I've seen it, and I think it's great that they put an LPGA player on the cover, but past that, I mean, I don't want it to be the focus this week.  I think it's great they're putting an LPGA on the cover though.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT