NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2020
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome everyone to the Walmart NW Arkansas Championship presented by P&G.
 Now, time to present winner of this year's Aberdeen Standard Investment Ladies Scottish Open and Arkansas Razorback, Stacy Lewis.
 Stacy, welcome.  As you went to school here, how has it been reconnecting with all of your classmates and teammates who might still be here?
 STACY LEWIS:   Well, it's strange this year.  You can't really do whole lot tat.  You can see a few close friends but really other than that you're not going anywhere, you're not doing anything.
 So it's definitely different this year, but excited to be back in a place that I know and place that I love so much.  Just a comfort level of being here and just feels like a second home.
 THE MODERATOR:   Yeah.  And you've been abroad for the past few weeks.  How is it to be back home and with family closer?
 STACY LEWIS:   Still working on the jet lag.  It's always harder I think coming back.  2:00, 3:00 in the afternoon you feel like you need a nap.  Just got to keep pushing through it.  It's definitely great to be back.  It's nice to be out of quarantine in Scotland.  Little bit more freedom.  At least you can drive places and go do a few things.
 But it's nice to be back and see my daughter and see my husband.  It's been a long month.
 THE MODERATOR:   And speaking of Scotland and the poor weather there, we have some storms coming our way.  How does that affect your mentality going into this week?
 STACY LEWIS:   Just got to have patience really.  And that's kind of how this tournament is every year.  Normally we're playing it earlier in the summer where there is pop-up thunderstorms and we kind of deal with that anyway.
 Golf course is I would say definitely a little softer this year than in years past, so I think scoring is going to be pretty good.  Three-day events are always print, so you just got to get out there when you have an opportunity and play some good golf.
 THE MODERATOR:   And throughout your career here just at Walmart you finished in the top 10 multiple times.
 STACY LEWIS:   
 THE MODERATOR:   What are you most looking forward to in terms of going out to the golf course and utilizing your past knowledge?
 STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it's the comfort level of knowing what to hit off each tee and layups.  I was joking with my caddie that I don't need a yardage book here.  He's looking at yardage book for numbers and I said, It's a 5-iron layup.  Like I know what to hit here.
 So it's so much course knowledge, and it's really just about executing the shots from there.
 THE MODERATOR:   Tomorrow you'll play alongside fellow Arkansas graduate Gaby Lopez.  Are you looking forward to you talking about memories of school with her?
 STACY LEWIS:   Well, we weren't in school at the same time.  But, no, it's just very cool to see all the girls coming through.  Gaby and Maria and Alan have been on tour, and we get three other girls in the field.  Just shows what we're doing here and what the experience of play in this event, what it leads to down the road.  Just helps the girls learn what it takes to play at this level and kind of how they can get better in college to get out here one day.
 THE MODERATOR:   How do you manage to relax and unwind, especially after coming back from not having to play a full schedule and now having a full schedule?
 STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I think that -- at Troon the playing four weeks in a row right out of quarantine, it hit me.  I just mentally ran out of gas the last nine holes I played.
 You know, you go from basically doing nothing to being crazy busy and playing a ton of golf.  It was pretty difficult.
 Had a few days to rest there and have a Friday start here, so we have a few more days to rest.  So it's been nice to have that.
 THE MODERATOR:   Thank you so much, and good luck this week.  All right, thank you.
 STACY LEWIS:   Easy as that.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT