JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 21, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY SCHULTZ:   We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 3 Stacy Lewis into the interview room.   
A nice 67 out there today but it seemed like you felt that could have been a way lower number.  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I feel like I played a lot better than the score.   Had a bunch of putts, especially early that I thought I made.   
You know, the hole locations coming in there were pretty tough, so I think to make some birdies coming in, you really had to hit some good shots.   Overall, played really solid.   Got myself up near the top, which is where I want to be going into Sunday.   
KELLY SCHULTZ:   Definitely a crowded top of the leaderboard.   Is it pretty much anyone's game coming into Sunday knowing just how low players can go out there on the course?   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I look back at‑‑ I think the year I won, I shot 63.   Karrie has come back from six behind the last couple times that she won.   So it's going to be a shootout.   It's going to be what this golf course sets up for and the leaderboard this year sets up for it even more.   
You know, for me, I think it almost makes things easier because you have to just go out there and play and see what happens.   You can't watch one person or the people in your groups.   You've just got to go play golf.  
KELLY SCHULTZ:   With so many players making the cut, we knew it was going to be a little bit of a race to the finish to get the round in.   How relieved are you right now sitting here knowing that you don't have to come back out in the morning and can go in a normal routine of being in one of the final groups tomorrow?   
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I'm super relieved.   The worst part is going to sleep thinking about that one shot or that one putt you have to hit.   I think that's the hardest part.   
So just being able to do the normal stuff in the morning and not having to worry about going to bed so early, you can watch some basketball tonight.   Just kind of have a normal night, which is good, since we haven't had that yet this week.   
   
 Q.   I say this with all due respect, looking at the leaderboards, 19‑ and 20‑year‑olds; at 30, do you feel you're old out here?  
STACY LEWIS:   I do feel old, yes.   We knew it was coming.   A lot of the young Koreans were coming out, and so it's not surprising.   I mean, they are fearless.   They don't have the experience, so that's hopefully to my advantage.   But it is a little strange to be ten years older than some of these girls.   
   
 Q.   Do you know anything about Hyo Joo?   
STACY LEWIS:   No, not really.   
   
 Q.   Your conversation won't be very good tomorrow, I don't think she speaks a word of English, but how about Alison Lee?  
STACY LEWIS:   You know, I do‑‑ I played a practice round.   I played nine holes with Alison Lee in the Bahamas.   Really talented and she hits it really far.   She's got the record from college to prove it.   It's pretty easy to go out there and shoot 63 when you're teeing off pretty early.   We'll see how well she does in the final groups.   She's one of the young Americans that I think you look for in the next couple years to hopefully do something.  
   
 Q.   And you drove the ball exceptionally well today.   Are you feeling very comfortable now with the golf swing in terms of at least getting the ball in a position to make some good numbers?   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, actually I didn't have a very good warm up this morning, so I didn't feel real great about things going to the tee.   And you know, I don't know what it was but I definitely hit it a lot better today, a lot more solid.   The misses were better.   Especially early, I gave myself a lot of good looks at it.   
So things, they are starting to feel better.   Still a couple swings there coming in that I would like to have back, but the misses are getting closer, which is what I want.   
   
 Q.   You've already given yourself a lot of chances this year.   Is there frustration not taking advantage of that, or motivation that you keep doing it?   
STACY LEWIS:   Probably a little bit of both.   I mean, I was pretty excited about just putting myself in contention just because of what I was working on with my golf swing.   I was glad that I was able to kind of put myself there.   
But then weakness of it kind of came out.   I mean, so there's good and bad in it.   You all want to win.   I mean, that's the ultimate, but just knowing that I'm working in the right direction and going in the right direction.   I mean, ultimately you want to be playing your best golf this summer, not necessarily in February.   
It's just kind of keep building on things.   My putting's been rock solid the last few months in general and that's kind of what's kept me in the tournament.   So the most frustrating part is I feel like I'm putting really well and I'm just not quite giving myself the looks.   That's probably the most frustrating.  
   
 Q.   Saying that then, is it difficult when you see Lydia get on the board with a win, Inbee get on the board with a win; and not trying to watch them too much when you're really trying to build for the bigger events?   
STACY LEWIS:   I mean, not too much.   I mean, I look at‑‑ I looked at the stats and kind of scoring average and that kind of stuff and I'm right where I need to be.   The only thing that's not there is the win, and so I mean, I'm totally okay with that.   You can't compare yourself to one person or two people.   I mean, we're too different.   The three of us, we play this game way different.   So I try not to compare myself too much to them.   
KELLY SCHULTZ:   I guess it's time for you to go watch this basketball.  
STACY LEWIS:   Perfect.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT