JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 20, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Bogey to start but then birdied six of eight in that stretch.   
STACY LEWIS:   It was just solid.   The golf course is in such good shape, you get some putts around the hole, you can definitely make them.   Just hit a few close.   I hit a 4‑iron into about six inches, so that always helps.   It was just solid.  
   
 Q.   Did it help going to bed knowing what the target score was?   
STACY LEWIS:   It doesn't really change things.   I mean, it kind of‑‑ it was just nice knowing that a low number was out there more than anything, and I got off to a good start, so I was in a good spot.   Kind of a little brain fart on 7 just when we came back but then it got me to really have some good speed on the greens and played really good coming in.   
   
 Q.   You're going to be asked this for the rest of the year so I'll go ahead and start it:   You're 1, Lydia is two.   This is getting to be like Hogan, Nicklaus, Player.   I don't think this tour has ever had anything like that?  
STACY LEWIS:   No, we've always had kind of a dominant player, which is not necessarily good for the Tour I think.   So this rivalry that's becoming, I think it's really great for us.   It's making us better.   It's fun.   I know Lydia is going to be up there every week.   I know Inbee, even though she's not here, she would be on the leaderboard if she was.   It makes us better and that's what you're seeing, you're seeing better golf out of all of us?  
   
 Q.   Do you feed off of each other?   
STACY LEWIS:   Oh, for sure.   I wasn't surprised Lydia shot what she did.   Just kind of motivated me to get up there with her too.  
   
 Q.   If you have to have a 30‑hole day, is this the way you want to go back out, when you're on fire like that?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, if you've got to play a lot of holes and you're on a roll, that's where you want to be.   Yeah, things feel good.   It will be a quick turnaround here, and I don't know, see what I can do this afternoon.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT