JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 18, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about coming back to an event, after the difficulty of traveling from Asia‑‑ tough, not tough?   
STACY LEWIS:   It's always hard.   You think the more you do it, the easier it will get.   But it's always hard to come back.   But this is honestly one of my favorite events of the year.   
Just what it means and what it stands for and playing for these girls and playing for the founders, it's such an important event for us that I don't mind traveling to Asia and having to come back here.  
   
 Q.   What do you do on your off‑week?   
STACY LEWIS:   I only had about four days, so I don't even know.   Tried to get adjusted on my sleep and all that.   I mean, it really went by pretty quick.   I didn't get home until Monday night.   Just getting ready to leave again.   
   
 Q.   Karrie mentioned yesterday that the course was a lot softer.   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, the course is playing completely different.   I mean, I don't know if it's going to play harder or easier with that but it's so much softer, flying 5‑irons on the greens and holding them where we have to bounce a 7‑iron in there.   I mean, it's crazy the difference from one year to the next.   But it's in great shape.   There's a lot of green grass out there so it's good as always.   
   
 Q.   So you've had a couple chances to win already this year.   What's your take away of the first part of the season?   Are you happy with how you played or frustrated that you haven't won?   
STACY LEWIS:   I'm pretty happy actually with the way I played.   I'm kind of been working on my golf swing and the old stuff kind of crept in on Sundays when the pressure got on.   I would rather find that out now than in a week or two from now.   So in that aspect, I'm working on the right things because obviously it's there.   So a little bit frustrated that I didn't play better on the Sundays but I mean, to be in contention, to make Top‑10s, that's the ultimate goal.   So I'm happy.   I'm happy with what we're working on and the way we're going with things.   
   
 Q.   What specifically are you working on?   Is it big changes, little changes?  
STACY LEWIS:   It's actually kind of getting back to more what I was doing in 2012 and 2013 a little bit.   We kind of worked last year on trying to get my golf swing a little bit flatter.   I don't know if it's the way my body is or what it is but when I get flatter, the club gets more behind me.   So then it gets stuck behind me and I hit it right, I hit it left, I hit it all over the place.   I just wasn't happy with the way I hit it at the end of last year and I needed to do something different because what we were working on wasn't right.   I played my best golf when all we worried about was keeping the club in front of my hands, so that's kind of what we're getting back to.   It might get a little high at times but I can play golf from there.   I can't play when it's stuck behind me.   
   
 Q.   So I'm working on a piece on anger, and the little girl stole my thunder in there.   You got a good encapsulation of how you deal with it.   What do you do in those instances where that doesn't work?   
STACY LEWIS:   I mean, I feel like I've grown a lot in that department.   It's something that you just have to learn.   It's not something that‑‑ everybody wants a quick fix on how do you not get bad.   I'm like, if you don't‑‑ if you care about what you're doing, you're going to get mad about it.   And so I don't think getting mad is a bad thing.   It's whether it affects the next shot or the next hole.   
But I think the more I play golf now and the older I get, things get in perspective a little bit more and one shot, one hole really doesn't matter as much as it used to just because I realize I'm going to play some more golf.  
   
 Q.   I'm doing this for a segment on NBC Sports radio and the host of the show feels like when he gets angry, it's motivating to him; has that ever been true for you?   
STACY LEWIS:   Oh, for sure.   I probably play my best golf when I'm a little angry.   When I have a chip on my shoulder, I feel like I have something to prove.   That's what I seem to play my best.   And people are different, though.   Different personalities work different ways.   I mean, Brittany Lincicome plays her best golf when she's smiling and singing songs.   
For me, that's just not me.   Some people don't like that maybe I don't smile as much as I should on the golf course but that's just me and that's my personality, and people know me know that's how I am.   
   
 Q.   So can you sustain that anger through a whole round or are you in and out of it?   
STACY LEWIS:   No, you're in and out of it.   I mean, you know, if you're angry the whole round, it's a long day for your caddie, I'll tell you that (laughs).   And you definitely have days where you're like that, but then you realize afterwards, you're kind of like, gosh, why did I do that to myself, because then you can look back on where you cost yourself shots.   It's just a learning curve and learning how to handle it.   
   
 Q.   Do you ever go through a period where you thought, okay, I need to stop that; did you wrestle that way, and then decide, that doesn't fit me and I've got to be me?   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I mean, I don't know if it's one particular moment but you know with the media and with fans, people like to say things and maybe don't like the way you handle stuff.   And so, I mean, and my parents will say stuff to me, as well.   There's definitely times where I didn't handle things the way I know I should or got too mad.   But I realize, I can't do it; I can't make a bogey and be okay with it.   It's just not me.   It's not who I am.   
That's I think just one thing I've learned over the last couple years is just to be myself, and if you're yourself out there, people are going to I think appreciate that more.   
   
 Q.   So now that you've been the No. 1 player in the world and swept all the awards, what could you possibly have a chip on your shoulder about?   
STACY LEWIS:   Well, there's always something to prove.   You know, heading into this year, all the talk was about Michelle and Lydia and there wasn't a whole lot said about me or Inbee truthfully.   You look at it from that side, there's still something to prove there.   You can always get better out here.   
   
 Q.   The start of a big three‑week stretch and the fact that you end at the year's first major, do you view these tournaments differently than you would normally as you would prep for a major?   
STACY LEWIS:   A little bit.   I like to my swing coach come out of week before a major, so he be out next week.   You work on some things early in the week, test them out in competition; if it works, keep working on it; and if it doesn't, let's go back to the drawing board Monday, Tuesday of the major and figure out what we want to do.     
It's really trying to play our best golf in a couple weeks but this is a great golf course.   It's in such good shape that you can get a good feel for how you're playing and how things are going in that direction.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT