HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 7, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Six birdies today, you must be really happy. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, pretty pleased.   The middle of the round, couldn't quite get anything going, so I was just happy with the way I stayed patient.   Made a nice putt on 15 and then made a couple good ones coming in. 

Q.   Now we now you're always in the mix and you're such a strong player but tomorrow, we have an awful lot to be excited about.   The world No. 1, 2 and 3 look like they will be going out together.   That should be fun. 
STACY LEWIS:   It will.   It will be great fun.   It's great for the fans and for our tour.   This leaderboard all week has been unbelievable.   Just a ton of really good players up in the mix, and you know, this golf course, we have got to be careful about what's going on ahead of us, because it's easy to post a number and kind of sit back and see what happens.

Q.   Conditions not too bad today, a little bit of breeze around, a lot of cloud cover, so it was actually pretty comfortable out there?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it was.   Golf course didn't play any easier.   This golf course is tough.   There's a lot of tough hole locations, especially coming in.   So hopefully we have some good weather again tomorrow and see some good golf like we did today.

Q.   This is a really tough golf course with the greens, they are massive, but you putted your socks off today, didn't you.   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, you've got to on this golf course but they are rolling so pure that you can make some bombs.   That's the fun part of this golf course is that if you get some putts started on line, they will just go in. 
For us, it's great to play.   We don't get greens like this every week on Tour and we love coming here. 

Q.   Would you prefer to be playing with the other two, or would you prefer to be separated? 
STACY LEWIS:   The final group on a Sunday is where you want to be, so no matter‑‑ doesn't matter who is in the group.   This is the position I want to be in tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT