HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 27, 2015
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You had a good round today.   
STACY LEWIS:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   Tell me a little bit about that.   
STACY LEWIS:   Well, it got off to a bit of a slow start, but about midway through the front nine there kind of caught fire with the putter and started hitting some shots close.   
It really was a pretty easy day.   I didn't cause myself too much stress.   Hit a ton of greens, which is what have to do on this golf course.   
Just happy with the day.  
   
 Q.   A 3‑stroke leading into its weekend.   What is your plan?   
STACY LEWIS:   Well, one, this is where I want to be.   I want to be in this position.   I did a good job.   I thought I did a good job today of just keep looking forward and not really looking at what was behind me.   You have to do that on this golf course, because it'll jump up and get you if you're not paying attention.   
It's to keep looking forward and hopefully keep playing some good golf.  
   
 Q.   Nice.   One last thing.   Can you say some local thing?   
STACY LEWIS:   I don't know about that.   
   
 Q.   Okay.   Last question.   Going into the weekend, we were Ariya Jutanugarn as Thai player here.   She definitely going to want to be on the top.   Have you played her, yet?  
STACY LEWIS:   I have.   I played with Ariya here and on the tour quite a bit.   This golf course sets up perfect for her as far as she hits it.   You know, far and high on this golf course is a good thing.  
She's going to be somebody to watch I think coming this weekend.  
   
 Q.   How do you like this course?   Your score is very low.   You like this course well, right?  
STACY LEWIS:   I do.   I like this golf course because you have to hit good shots.   You can't get away with a mishit.   That's the biggest thing on this golf course.   I like the challenge of it, I guess.   
   
 Q.   I'm sure you've got this a lot, but sensational round Stacy.   64 today; you're now 14‑under.   
STACY LEWIS:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   I don't think you put a foot wrong today, did you?   
STACY LEWIS:   You know, I did a lot of good things today.   There are a couple putts I wish I could have back, but all in all a good day.   Stayed a little bit more patient today.   Hit it on the right side of the holes.   
I think that's what you saw on the score.  
   
 Q.   66 yesterday; 64 today.   Do you feel like you're in a zone?   
STACY LEWIS:   You know, I don't know if it's in the zone, but I just felt really uncomfortable out there.   I wasn't trying to force anything.   Just taking what the golf course gave me.   
Made a couple long putts, which is always nice.   But it was just good golf.   That's the place you want to be.  
   
 Q.   You talked about your ball striking earlier on in the year saying you weren't happy with where it was.   Happy with where it was today?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yes, very happy with the ball striking.   I think I missed one green today and was just on the fringe and actually made the putt.   So ball striking was really good.   With these greens you hit it into each section of the green, so while they look big on TV, they're actually pretty small to where you're hitting it.   
Any I'm you're hitting that many greens on this golf course is a good thing.  
   
 Q.   You've got a nice lead go into round three.   How will you approach tomorrow?  
STACY LEWIS:   Tomorrow is just keep looking forward.   I did a good job of that today, of not looking at the leaderboards and what anybody behind me was doing.   Just kept focusing on the next shot.   That's what I need to do for the next two days.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT