CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Happy to be joined in the media center by Stacy Lewis.   3‑under for the tournament; 2‑under for the day.   
Stace, what was working for you out there?   
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I went into the day just trying to hit some more greens.   I hit ten more than I hit yesterday.  
So that was the goal:   just try to give myself as many looks at birdies as I could.   I was fortunate to be able to do that.   
I hit some really good putts that I thought I made, so could have been a little bit better, but anything under par on this golf course is really good.  
MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   Other than 17 you didn't miss a shot today.   What did you work on yesterday that got you to this point given how you played Friday?  
STACY LEWIS:   Well, it was pretty much dark when we left last night, so we were out there for a while.   It was kind of the order of the back swing.   My body was just going so fast and kind of controlling the whole swing.  
Just tried to get things going more starting with the arms.   I probably looked like I was talking to myself all day, but I just kept saying, Your arms pull the body.   Just trying to make my arms pull the body on the backswing and pull my body through.  
Fortunately it worked.   I hit a lot of really good shots.   It was pretty windy and tough out there again.  
   
 Q.   Looked like you rolled a lot of good putts.   Did you misread some?   Speed throw you?  
STACY LEWIS:   I hit a couple.   Like the one on 18 I thought I made.   Just these greens kind of bobbled there at the end.  
Couple misreads, but in general I hit a lot of good putts.   Had more just keep tap‑ins instead of fighting for 4‑ and 5‑footers all day.  
I had better speed.   I was a little bit more in control of things.   I mean, again, I got off to a good start, and I think that was the key.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you about the first four holes and how you geared up for them today mentally knowing how important those were for the weekend.   
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I think the first tee shot is probably my least favorite tee shot on this entire golf course, so I knew as soon as I could get that one over with I would be okay.  
1 played really tough today.   It was dead into the wind.   
And then those next three holes are as hard as they get.   I just tried to hit good shots.   I knew with the way my short game was if I missed a green I could get it up and down.   
I hit a great shot in on 2, and I think that kind of settled me in to kind of trust what I was working on with my golf swing.  
   
 Q.   Will you sit down at the computer at the end of the day and size up the situation?  
STACY LEWIS:   I don't know exactly how it all works, but I can tell‑‑ there are people on the leaderboard I'm definitely cheering for over others.   I'm not going to wish any bad on anybody else, but there are definitely some people I'm cheering for.  
You know, I just got to take care of business tomorrow more than anything.   I've been sleeping really good at night because I've been so tired, so I don't think that's going to be a problem.  
Actually, I just want to get that first tee shot over with tomorrow and we'll be good to go.  
   
 Q.   That being said, when you're playing a tournament within a tournament with one round to play, how do you look at it?   How do you approach it?   Do you play any differently?   Is it just business as usual?   
STACY LEWIS:   I've got to try to do what I did today, which was just hit a bunch of greens.  
I've been thinking about all these awards and the Race to the Globe that kind of stuff for three, four weeks now.   
Unfortunately that's not going to go away overnight.   I just got to go hit some greens tomorrow.   That's all I'm going to try to do.   If the putts go in, great; if they don't, I'm going to take‑‑ any par on this then golf course good.  
I'm going to try not to think about it tonight.   My Razorbacks play here at 3:30, so I got a football game to watch.   I'll be watching some college football tonight.   
   
 Q.   Five back too many, or you even thinking about winning the golf tournament?  
STACY LEWIS:   Am I only five back now?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
STACY LEWIS:   Well that's good news.   No, I don't think that's too many.   I think you've seen some 6‑ and 6‑unders this golf course already this week.   Who knows with the pressure on what the leaders do.   
I got that number in my head, and if I can go out there and make a few birdies early and take care of business on the back nine, you can post a good number on this golf course if you make a few putts.  
That's what I'm going to focus on tomorrow:   Trying to move up the leaderboard and trying to win the golf tournament.   That's what I did today and it really seemed to help me stay focused on the shot at hand.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT