CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Happy to be joined in the media center by Stacy Lewis, 3‑under, 69 today.   Stacy, what was working for you out there?   
STACY LEWIS:   Well, it was a bit of an up‑and‑down day.   Didn't get off to that great of a start, but the short game was really working all day.  
Just kind of kept me in there to make some birdies there at the end and make a few putts.   The golf course is playing so hard.   You just got to hang in there, and that's what I did today.  
   
 Q.   How are the conditions out there?   A little bit windier today.   
STACY LEWIS:   Compared to yesterday it was pretty nice, but it's pretty hard with that much wind.   I think the first four or five holes are some of the hardest holes on the golf course, so you got to come out firing right away.   
You got some long irons into greens that are not very big.   It was playing hard, but then you make the turn and you got some wedges into holes and you can make some birdies.  
Back nine sets up for some good stuff at the end.  
MODERATOR:   
   
 Q.   A lot of talk coming into this week about everything that could happen.   How good does it feel to just be out there playing golf now?  
STACY LEWIS:   It's awesome.   Lydia and I were talking about we only have three and a half more days and our season is over.   We're all pretty excited about that.   
It's nice to be playing and not be talking about it or worrying about it all the time.  
I think we were all kind of a little bit nervous, a little bit hesitant there at the beginning, but we seemed to all kind of settle in.  
It's one good round.   We got a long, long way to go, but it's nice to get off to a good start.  
MODERATOR:   Questions.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of the start, opening tee shot, could someone have watched it and said I wonder what was on her mind right now, or was that just a scratchy tee shot for you?  
STACY LEWIS:   Well, it's a hard tee shot to begin with.   You're sitting back there on the tee and you can't really feel the wind there, and you get out there and it's blowing straight cross.  
For me it's a hard tee shot with that wind.   Just didn't make a good swing, but almost made one of the best birdies of my life.  
I made three really good pars there to start the day.   I could have been 3‑over through three pretty easy.  
   
 Q.   Also could have been 3‑under.   You almost holed all those wedge shots.   Did that really kind of settle you in?   After that looked like you were hitting your irons fairly well.   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it did.   I didn't make some very good swings, especially on 2 and 3.   Didn't make some good swings there.  
Any time your short game keeps you in a round, you know, it gives you momentum.   And not having to worry about it.   That was the best.   Just going up there and tapping them in.   Not wasting too much energy on it was good.   
I think because I got the up‑and‑downs I was able to move on pretty quick and try to just focus on the next one.  
   
 Q.   The only scratchy short game was 16.   What happened there?  
STACY LEWIS:   I had been putting them most of the day from off the green.   I saw Lydia's chip shot check up pretty good, but it was just a lot slower than I thought.   The green definitely slowed down quite a bit as the day went on.   It was back into the wind and uphill and just didn't hit it hard enough.  
I think everyone's probably seen the greens.   They're not the best this week, so you just can't‑‑ all week I kind of told myself coming into the week, You can't leave yourself too many 5‑ to 10‑footers for par.   They're going to be hard to make this week with the wind.  
Goal tomorrow is not to leave myself those anymore.  
   
 Q.   Given that we're supposed to have windy conditions from here on out, you liking that 3‑under number going forward?  
STACY LEWIS:   I would love to have some wind the next three days.   I love it when it plays hard.   Love it when a winning score ends up being maybe 10‑under versus 25.   I think you really to hit more golf shots with the wind, and the harder conditions I think will help me out.  
   
 Q.   Everything that's at stake, everything that you could think about the biggest challenge, was the biggest challenge coming into this week the mental part of it?  
STACY LEWIS:   For sure.   Mentally those first three or four holes my swing was fine.   Just wasn't trusting what I was doing.   You're worried about making a mistake or a big number.   You know, that was the hardest part.   
I think the last five or six holes there I got myself to finally free it up and just hit‑‑ I kept telling my caddie, I just got to hit the ball.   Hit the ball.   Quit babying it.   I was kind of quitting on a few swings and just not finishing it out.  
Mentally is the hardest part.   You could see it in Inbee.   I don't know if Lydia quite understands all that's going on, but you could see it in Inbee and probably in me, too.   
We both played some tentative golf today, and hopefully we can both free it up as we go throughout the week.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever felt that tentativeness of thinking too much about Thursday where you can lose it?  
STACY LEWIS:   Not on a Thursday.   I mean, I think you've thought about it at majors.   At majors you get to the weekend, and when it's playing hard trying not to make a mistake.  
But, I mean, what I think I've learned from those experiences is to just swing it and hit the ball and go after it.   That's when I play my best golf.   I try to use the experiences that I've had in final groups and in majors.  
It's going to be a long week that we were feeling that on a Thursday.  
   
 Q.   Just wondering if having played the course you could comment on Julieta's round to get a 66 today and just some of your thoughts on her season and the times you've played with her.   
STACY LEWIS:   I don't think she and I have ever played together this year at all, but we train a lot together and work out with the same trainer, so I know her pretty well.  
She's got a great short game; really good putter.   Obviously I didn't see any of her round, but I'm sure that's probably what it was.  
If you hit some good shots on this golf course and make a few putts, you can ‑‑ there are two par‑5s that are reachable, so a number like that is out there.  
I was definitely surprised given how hard it was playing, but that number is definitely out there.  
   
 Q.   Looked like you checked the scoreboard for the first time on 3.   Is that the earliest you have ever looked at the scoreboard?  
STACY LEWIS:   No.   I watch scoreboards all the time.   Whether we're in Mobile, Alabama or the U.S. Open, I watch leaderboards all the time.   So that's not out of the norm.  
Especially if you're the last tee time.   I like to see how the course is playing.   Are people making a lot birdies?   Are they just hanging in there?   
It was good because it made my realize, All right, it's playing pretty tough out here.   Just relax and you can make a few birdies.   
   
 Q.   How much cash do you have in your wallet typically?   
STACY LEWIS:   Not much‑‑ well, not much usually.   Everything now is with cards, so maybe hundred bucks.   I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Secondly, Julieta won the first $1 million payoff when she was 20.   Can you imagine what you would have gone through if at age 20 you had $1 million handed to you?  
STACY LEWIS:   Gosh, I think that would have been really hard for that young.   Was it her first win, too?   
   
 Q.   Uh‑huh.  
STACY LEWIS:   I think the expectations go up after the first win.   Then you add a million bucks to it?   I think that that would be a really hard situation to be in.  
It's good to see her figure things out.   She is still young.   I think she's only, what, 26 now?   So she's still got a lot of good golf left in her.   
Good to see her playing well this year.  
   
 Q.   What club did you hit in on 17?  
STACY LEWIS:   Hybrid.   I had 196 front, so 217 to the pin.   Pretty good.   
MODERATOR:   Anything else for Stacy?   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT