FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY TAIWAN MOBILE
November 1, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Bit of showing off out there I think today. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I kind of got things together there.   Played really good.   The wind started blowing on 7, and my caddie kind of made a comment about it and I said good, that was my response.   So I knew I needed some help with the weather to get a little bit closer and played some great golf there coming in.

Q.   So it's a course, the conditions have been benign, really low scoring and you were moving nicely through the pack.   I thought there might have been a big smile on your face once the wind came up and the conditions were playing tough because you had four birdies in the last five holes and you really put the foot down. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I think you go into this golf course thinking it's going to be windy and you kind of have it set in your head that that's the way it's going to be and when it's not windy you have to change the game plan a little bit.   Didn't quite adjust the last two days. 
But I love it when it's like this.   When it's windy and hard, I think it brings the best out of me and the big thing today was I made some putts there at the end and got me close enough for tomorrow and in the last group, so good spot to be in.

Q.   Is that exactly where you want to be with the final players in the final group, having the big move today to putt you right in contention? 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I was nine back starting the day, so I thought if I could cut that in half at least and give myself a chance for tomorrow, and just to get in the last group just so you know what's going on. 
And obviously to play with the best player in the world, that's what you want to do.   I love my position for tomorrow, because I think the weather is going to be a little bit more like this.

Q.   Last group with Inbee, I know earlier in the week we were talking about when you guys exchanged 1 and 2, having both really been playing well and this week both in the final group. 
STACY LEWIS:   I guess this is what everybody has been asking for.   I can't think, we haven't done this in a while.   At least I can't think of the last time we've both been in a final group.   Should be fun.   Should be exciting. 
I think the weather is going to be challenging, though.   I think the golf course is going to be playing pretty difficult.   I don't think either one of us will be thinking about those World Rankings tomorrow.

Q.   You talked a little bit earlier about what a difference the wind made, how that suits your game.   How big will that be tomorrow if it stays like this?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I think this golf course, with no wind, is a birdie‑fest and without it, it's pretty tough.   You can make birdies but it's tough.   I like this golf course in the wind better than without it.   I think you can kind of play some different shots, maybe be aggressive on certain holes off the tees.   So I like this golf course more in the wind than without it. 

Q.   You mentioned playing with Inbee, and also playing with Shanshan, does that affect your game when you're playing against some of the best players in the world, does it kind of motivate you a little bit more?
STACY LEWIS:   It does.   When I was coming up 8, they had the leaderboard up there and I said to myself, wow, you couldn't ask for a better leaderboard.   You had a bunch of the Top‑10 in the world just right there. 
But for us as players, it's where you want to be.   You want to play‑‑ I want to play Inbee when she's playing her best and she wants to play me when we are playing our best.   It should be some good golf tomorrow for the fans and hopefully a lot of birdies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT