SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 9, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You have to be pretty happy with the way things went today. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, another week I got off to a good start again.   It was kind of one of those rounds that early it was actually kind of shaky and had to make a few par putts on the first three holes, but really just kind of hung in there and gave myself a lot of birdie looks at it and was fortunate to make a few.   So it was a little bit of an ugly round, but I got a lot out of it.

Q.   You had had three in a row as you made the turn; is that correct?   Was that a little bit of momentum, like here we go again, confidence builder?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, my goal was to shoot a 1‑ or 2‑under on the front there and hit a great iron shot into 9.   Had hit 6‑iron into the back pin to about 10 feet, and it was just a really good swing, and it gave me some confidence with my golf swing and was able to just be a little bit more aggressive than I was early in the day.   Hitting it close on 10 to about four feet, then made about a 10‑footer up the hill on 11.   More than anything, it just kind of gave me some confidence to finish out the day. 

Q.   You're world No.1, quite popular in the United States, but you're quite popular here with the Queen of Malaysia.   You played with her yesterday.   Can you tell us a little bit about that?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it was a lot of fun.   Once we got inside the ropes, she was definitely a golfer, you could tell.   She was telling me all the courses that she's played all over the world.   She's probably played more courses all over the world than I have, and she loves it.   We had a good time out there.   We were betting some money on a few holes, and it was a good time.   It was just really cool to see someone in that position just be so down to earth and just so excited to play with me, when I was pretty excited to be playing with her. 

Q.   Do you strive in these sort of conditions, being hot and humid, do you strive to do well in these sort of conditions?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I grew up in Texas in the States where it's hot and humid like this in the summers, so I guess I'm kind of used to it.   The thing I like about it is the ball just goes a mile so you can kind of free‑wheel it a little bit more and hit it a little bit further.   I don't know, I guess just growing up in Texas I'm more used to it than anything.   This is just a normal summer day, so it's good. 

Q.   At the press conference the other day you emphasized that you really like this course, but what is it about this course that you really like?
STACY LEWIS:   I think the course is just fun to play.   It's a course where if you're in position, you can make a lot of birdies, but if you get out of position, you're struggling to make par.   It's just a fun course.   It's kind of quirky or a few holes.   You kind of have to take your par and run, but then you've got like the turn of 13 and 14 out there are two really good holes, I think.   They're short but they're still really hard.   I don't know, it's just a fun course to play.   It's not your let's hit driver, 6‑iron, driver, 7‑iron.   At least you've got some variety there where you're hitting wedges in, but you're also hitting some 5‑irons, as well.

Q.   I saw you practicing alone on the practice green getting your putting right.   It worked out today, but are you in a zone where you're happy with your putting, or do you still think you need to work on that?
STACY LEWIS:   I don't think I'm ever happy with my putting.   I mean, the short game is something that it's always hit or miss.   It's hard to keep it going week off week, so it's something you're constantly working on.   Under pressure the putting I think is almost the hardest thing, so if you can get the putting solid when the pressure is off, hopefully it kind of holds up.   That's why I practice it so much, because I want it to hold up on Sundays.   That's what I'm hoping for.   It was good today, but it still could have been a little bit better. 

Q.   I was just wondering how much the leaderboard plays a part in mindset, in your mindset, and when do you know‑‑ are you actually paying attention to it or completely blocking it out?
STACY LEWIS:   I actually like watching leaderboards.   I like kind of seeing how the course is playing, especially when you tee off later, kind of seeing what people in front of you are doing.   I saw So Yeon got off to a hot start there.   I saw she was 5‑under through 7 or something like that.   I like to know that just to know, all right, they're making a lot of birdies, I need to start making some birdies, too.   I like watching it, and it doesn't really affect‑‑ especially today it doesn't really affect what you do.   I like seeing‑‑ it's fun to watch certain players play well on certain types of golf courses, too, so I like watching that.   I don't know, it gives me something to think about out there, I guess. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT