REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
September 30, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Stacy, why did you decide to come back this year? 
    STACY LEWIS:   Well, I think the first reason is I like the golf course and I played well on it, so I wanted to come back to a course that I felt like I had a good opportunity to win on.
    Second was just to kind of right the ship from last year.   I just regretted the way I handled things, so I just wanted to be the bigger person and come back and play again.
    Just really give to a second chance and prove more to myself that I can handle it and I can play under any situation.

Q.   By things, what do you mean? 
    STACY LEWIS:   Like things handling? 

Q.   Yeah. 
    STACY LEWIS:   I think the hardest part, a lot of the countries we play in in Asia golf is fairly new.   A lot of the etiquette with fans and the crowds is not what it is in the U.S., so it's something that we deal with in most of the Asian countries we go to.
    Some are good and some are bad.   There is a scale there.   Golf is just so new here that the fans just don't really know.   Hopefully the more we come here the fans get more educated.   Rightfully they're going to cheer for someone from China.   That's how it is.   I realize that being from the U.S.

Q.   You bring up China and the growth of gold of China and the knowledge.   How big do you think Shanshan's win was overall for the growth of golf in China and even our tour?
    STACY LEWIS:   Well, one, just having this event in China, we can thank Shanshan for that.   Her winning here was massive.   For her it was probably a dream come true to win in her home country like that.
    It's going to be great for the game golf, and it's going to continue to grow.   So 10, 15 years from now you'll see probably a lot of Chinese players coming like Se Ri and South Korea.
    I think it's one of those moments that's going to change history down the road.

Q.   What do you remember about Shanshan's shot?
    STACY LEWIS:   I don't really remember a lot because it was so hazy and dark.   You couldn't really see anything.   I just remember the crowd's reaction, because I couldn't see the ball.   I never saw it off the face.
    Just more the crowd's reaction than anything.

Q.   How far away from the pin were you at that point?
    STACY LEWIS:   I had laid up, so I was a wedge.   Probably 100, 120 yards away.   It was pretty dark so I couldn't see. 

Q.   Perfect.   Final one:   This year's weather reports are supposed to be much, much better.   No problem visually.   Overall you said you like it course.   Do you have any expectations? 
    STACY LEWIS:   Well, I mean, the course is in great shape again.   Definitely the weather is cooler so it's probably going to play a little bit longer. 
    It was pretty warm last year so the ball was going and you could make a bunch of birdies.
    It might play a little bit tougher this year.   I like where my game is going.   Played well at Evian.   Scores didn't show it all the time.   And played well in Alabama. 
    So kind of like where my game is going.   Like I said, I'm excited to be here.   I have a lot of energy right now.   Looking forward to the next few weeks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT