REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
October 2, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  EMCEE:   We very pleased to have the outright leader of the first round of our tournament; also ranking No. 1 in the world, Stacy Lewis from the United States.   
    MODERATOR:   Stacy, great round today.   Strong finish for you.   I think it was after 4, your birdie on 4, you had a big smile on your face.   Did you know you had it going early on at that point?   
    STACY LEWIS:   I don't know.   Early I got off to kind of a slow start.   I made two long putts on 3 and 4 which kind of got things going, but really just a slow start.   Just stayed patient all day.   Was rewarded with that patience by birdieing four of the last five.   
    MODERATOR:   You mentioned birdieing four of the last five, but I believe it was also five of the last seven.   Now you end the day leading the tournament and you head into tomorrow in that position.   
    Is this the strongest you feel like you've finished in a while?   
    STACY LEWIS:   I think I just really like this golf course.   It's a golf course you can make a bunch of birdies on just because the greens are rolling so good.   
    So, I mean, more than anything, I was just trying to hit those shots.   At the end there, I just started hitting them a little bit closer and the putts started to go in.  
    I just really wanted to put up a good number today just going into the next few days where the weather might not be as good.   
    MODERATOR:   You had a pretty big name grouping today as well.   You were the only one who went bogey‑free.   What's the reason for that?   
    STACY LEWIS:   The grouping today was fun.   I always like playing with Inbee and Suzann.   If you play with the best players in the world, that makes you better.   I don't know if it made me elevate my game and play a little bit a better, but we had great crowds out there, I thought, for a first round.  
    It was a lot of fun playing with those girls.   We don't always get to play together.   They like to switch us up every now and again.   It was a fun day.   
    MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   Obviously leading after the first day.   Do you generally find it easy to keep the lead or to chase the lead?   
    STACY LEWIS:   You know, I mean, at the end of the day you want to be in the lead.   Sometimes I led actually I think the last tournament in Alabama after the first day and then didn't really play as good the next two days.   
    You learn you just got to stay patient.   You're not going to go shoot a 66 or 65 every single day.  
    Yeah, I want to be in the lead.   That's where I want to be.   I want to be in the lead coming up 18 on Sunday as well.  
    It's a good start, but we have a long ways to go.   
   
 Q.   You have expressed several times in this tournament that you would not succumb to any challenge however strong it is.   Does the courage have something to do with your fight against injuries like your back injury?  
    STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I think a lot of the person that I am is because of everything I went through with my back.   I think I was just disappointed a lot as a kid, and it turned me into a fighter and somebody that's never going to give up and back down from a challenge.  
    That's just who I am.   That's why I came back this week.   I'm glad I did.   
    MODERATOR:   With your finish here today, you have firm hold on first place in the Red Bull Challenge.   Was that one of your goals heading into the tournament?   
    STACY LEWIS:   It wasn't really a goal.   It was just my caddie and I, we kind of had a bet when we walked off the 13 green on the Par‑3.   Just a bet on how many birdies I could make coming in.   
    I definitely won the bet.   
   
 Q.   If we come back in the weekend, the fourth round, and we have bigger crowds and galleries, are you prepared better this time to face the challenge of bigger noises?  
    STACY LEWIS:   I hope so.   I feel like it's something that I've worked on to get ready for these couple weeks over here.   I'm trying just not to react to it.   That's what I'm trying to do.   Just really staying positive and not reacting to it.   I know there will be some cameras going on and noise and that's the way it is for everybody.  
    Just being a little bit more accepting of it.   I know it's only going to get harder as the week goes on.   That's why I'm here.   
   
 Q.   Last year you lost on the last hole.   Do you have more ambition to win this year?   
    STACY LEWIS:   You know, I think looking back on last year, this was one of the tournaments I felt like it just got away from me a little bit.   You know, Shanshan hit a great shot, but I also could have birdied that hole and gotten into a playoff.  
    I had my opportunities and I just didn't take advantage of it on 17 and 18.   Just felt like it was a tournament that kind of got away from me.   I was looking forward to coming back just because the golf course just fits my game and my eye.   I felt like I could play low here again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT