THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   4‑under, 67 in your round two.   Many congratulations.   Talk us through the rounds. 
STACY LEWIS:   It was good.   I got start on 10 today, which I think is a little bit easier.   You get into more of rhythm early.
Made a few good par putts to start and get me comfortable on the greens.   Then really played some good golf at the end of the back nine.   Got it going there.
Overall, really solid.   Probably one of the most solid rounds I've put together in a while.

Q.   Did you find the conditions similar to yesterday or did the breeze pick up a little bit?
STACY LEWIS:   You know I thought it played about the same.   I think some of the hole locations were a little bit tougher today.   Few holes you take par and move on. 
But in general, if you hit a good shot you can make birdie.

Q.   A lot of players said before the tournament they might have taken 4‑ or 5‑under; at the halfway stage leading score is 10‑under.   Is that lower than you expected? 
STACY LEWIS:   It was.   When I saw 9‑under get posted this morning I kind of thought it would stay there.   But there is a lot of golf to be played.
I was nine back going into today and now I'm only five.   I did what I wanted to do today, which was get closer to the lead.   You know, 36 holes in this golf course, and five shots back is not very much. 

Q.   We spoke to Brittany and she says she actually prefers to be one or two back and come from behind.   Do you prefer leading?
STACY LEWIS:   It's a challenge either way.   I think on this golf course you can play a little conservatively and make some bogeys. 
So in a sense you maybe better off chasing.   Ultimately I want to be in the lead and I want to have a lead coming up 18 on Sunday.
I'm going to work tomorrow to get there.   But I think you can.   As you've seen, some numbers have been shot on this golf course.   You can put a good round out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT