THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 10, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We'd like to welcome Rolex Rankings No. 1 Stacy Lewis into the interview room.   First off, welcome back to Evian.  
STACY LEWIS:   Thank you.  
THE MODERATOR:   I know you just got done playing in the pro am.   How is the golf course looking and how excited are you to be back here, final major of the 2014 season?   
STACY LEWIS:   It's just‑‑ I mean it's a major championship, so everybody is excited about that.   You know, it's another opportunity to win one, which is always a good thing, and you know, the golf course, it's better.   It's obviously not as wet, which is good.   
Greens are rolling a lot better, but you know, this golf course is just‑‑ it's a challenge.   You know, it's a bit frustrating at times.   It tests your patience, and that's the big thing for me this week is the patience level and just not, you know, not letting a bad bounce get to me.  
THE MODERATOR:   You've been so consistent in the majors so far this year.   Third at Kraft, second at the U.S. Women's Open, tied for sixth at Wegmans and tied for twelfth at the Rico women's British Open.   I know a lot of players say they judge themselves on major performance, and you show consistency throughout the year, but what does it mean to you when you look at that, no win so far, but to be able to perform so well, all top 12 finishes?   
STACY LEWIS:   I mean the big thing that sticks out to me is I didn't win one.   But that's just me.   You know, I'm here to win them.  
I mean it's good.   I mean I've given myself, which that's what you want to do, and you hope that putts kind of fall your way at the end, and it just hasn't quite done it this year.   
So just give myself another chance, and hopefully I'll come out on top this time.  
THE MODERATOR:   A victory this week would clinch the Rolex Annika Major Award for you.   That's all you have to do is win, and you would win that.   What would that award mean to you and what would a win mean this week?   
STACY LEWIS:   The award is a bonus.   The win is more what I'm here for.  
I mean I think you look at a player's career and it's judged on majors and wins, and that's what I'm here to do.   I'm here to win a trophy at the end of the week.   So everything else that happens as a result of that it's just a bonus.  
THE MODERATOR:   When you talk about awards, you did have a great honor this past weekend.   You got to go back to the University of Arkansas where you played and you got inducted into the Hall of Fame, the first female golfer to do so.   Take me through what was the weekend like and what does that honor mean?   That's a pretty prestigious one.  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it was.   It was a great weekend.   We actually had a 20‑year reunion with the golf program.   Just to have everybody back and hang out with the girls I went to school with was a lot of fun.   
And it was really cool.   I was inducted with I think eight other guys.   I was the only female up there.   We had a banquet, got to go on the field during the football game.   We were announced at half time, and I thought it was pretty cool that I got the loudest cheers of all the guys, so I was pretty proud of that.  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Stacy.  
   
 Q.   Obviously I don't know too much about the University of Arkansas.   Who were the guys that were inducted?  
STACY LEWIS:   There were some football players, basketball players, track.   There actually was a female basketball players actually as well.   
But yeah, it's a pretty football‑dominated university.   So that was pretty cool that they made me go last at the banquet because they knew if I went first that everybody would leave, so I thought that was pretty cool.  
   
 Q.   And you talked at the beginning about being patient here.   Are you doing anything to help you become more patient on this golf course?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.   I mean I think‑‑ I took some time‑‑ I had the last two weeks off and just kind of was thinking about, you know, what‑‑ I hadn't played as well as I would have liked the last month or so and just kind of thinking about what was different.   And it was my mindset and my patience level.   It just hadn't been there.   
And that was something to start the year, that was really a goal of mine was to be better at that.   So just kind of went back to some things I worked on in the off season.   It's just a different way of thinking.   You know, this golf course, I mean you look at 15 green right here, you've got a wedge in your hand, but you gotta play away from the hole just to keep it on the green.  
So that's the big thing, it's just taking what the golf course gives you and not trying to force it.   But at the same time you really have to stay patient because you're going to get some funky lies.   They're going to bounce a different direction than you think and you just gotta kind of ride with it.  
THE MODERATOR:   Are there things that you do to remind yourself of that, to stay patient, to kind of be in the moment?   Like you said, sometimes it gets away from you.   It's not always an easy thing to remember.  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.   I mean it's hard.   You start trying to force things, and you start working too hard on stuff, which I'm very good at doing that.   So it's really just kind of trying to stay big picture, and the big picture is I've had a great year, I've won three times.   I've had a bunch of Top 10s.   I'm leading a lot of the categories I want to be leading, so it's just getting back to what's gotten me to that point.  
And you know, I feel a lot more relaxed than I did at the last major.  
THE MODERATOR:   And do you think you take away from that, too, you're not putting as much pressure on yourself, like you said, you notice that you don't have any wins in the majors this year, but do you have to kind of step back and not put the pressure on yourself this week to make sure you get that win?   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, for sure.   Golf is just a game that the harder you try, the worse you play.   So you know, I have that comfort that, you know, I've‑‑ you know, you look at the LPGA Championship, I didn't exactly play that well, but I hung around long enough and still finished sixth.   So I mean I know if I have an off day, I can still come back and have a chance to win, and I need to keep that in the back of my mind.  
THE MODERATOR:   And that final day at the U.S. Women's Open, that was a pretty impressive round as well.   Might see another one here and would come away with not only a major trophy, but the Rolex Annika Major Award as well.   Any other questions for Stacy Lewis?   All right.   Well, thank you very much, Stacy, and best of luck this week.   
STACY LEWIS:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT