MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 17, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about the round. 
STACY LEWIS:   You know, I finished well, which is always good.   I definitely didn't have my best out there.   Didn't hit the ball very good, but found a way to get the ball in the hole there at the end and made some birdies coming in to get under par, which is always a good score on this golf course.

Q.   Are you much of a leaderboard watcher?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.   I mean, I like watching the leaderboard just to see how your friends are playing and people are playing. 
Obviously Laura is having a round out there today.   It's possible on this golf course.   We've seen it over the years.   You've got to be hitting the ball pretty good.

Q.   Does that concern you when you see somebody soaring like that?
STACY LEWIS:   No, because this golf course, it catches up to you pretty quick.   You're not going to see somebody do it probably even two days in a row.
You just got to stay patient out there, and hopefully you get one of those days where you go crazy, too.

Q.   Last year went really low on Sunday.   Almost too late.   Probably feels good to be around after day one. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.   I mean, it was an okay day.   It wasn't definitely what I wanted coming into the day.   Just looking at scores all day, other than Laura, nobody is really going crazy. 
I'm still in this thing.   Those putts at the end were key.   Work on a few things and get after it tomorrow.

Q.   Does this tournament play with your mind a little bit, the fact that it's a hometown thing?
STACY LEWIS:   No. I mean, the hardest part about this course is I've played it so many times.   Sometimes you see more bad shots than good shots.   That's honestly probably the hardest thing. 
So it's getting that out your head and trying to not remember all the shots from past years and just going out there and hitting the shots you have.

Q.   Because you played it so much, any other surprise out there today or pretty much what you expected? 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I mean, the course this year as a dry as I've ever seen it.   The ball is rolling out, releasing out into the greens.   So had to make some adjustments there, but it's good.   Makes it harder, which I like.
It's a lot more fun to play this golf course than when it's soaking wet.

Q.   Was the putter not what you liked or you weren't getting close enough? 
STACY LEWIS:   I think it was more ball striking today.   I didn't give myself a lot of good opportunities.   Hit some good putts; they just didn't go in.   That's just golf.   You're going to do that.
Missed a few short ones.   Just a little off, I think, with everything. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT