RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 11, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I bet you're tired.
STACY LEWIS:   I'm exhausted.   That was just a long day of golf.   I really hit a lot of good shots, hit some bad ones, but I didn't help myself out in my short game.   So I need to do that a little bit better.

Q.   Nice way to finish with a birdie?
STACY LEWIS:   It was good.   Hit a great shot in there.   Would have liked to have made that putt to get back to even par but still in a good spot.

Q.   Major championship golf, are there four tougher holes than the first four here at Royal Birkdale?
STACY LEWIS:   They are about as hard as they get.   One, they don't fit my eye either so that doesn't help.   I got off to a bad start but hung in there all day and I feel pretty lucky to shoot 2‑over. 

Q.   Looked like an up‑and‑down day for you.   How would you assess your performance? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, that was an understatement.   It was about as up‑and‑down as you could get.   It was all over the place today.   I hit some really good shots and hit some pretty poor shots, too.   You know, my short game just didn't really help me out today.   
             So got to shore that up for the weekend but I'm still in this thing.   This golf course is playing so hard and just got to keep hanging around and hopefully I can shoot a good number tomorrow. 

Q.   Bit of a hiccup in the middle of the back nine there.   How pleased were you to finish with a birdie? 
STACY LEWIS:   I was very pleased, more to make par on 17 after driving in the bunker and to finish with a birdie is obviously really good. 
Just proud of the way I came back after that.   Just one squirrely shot there, I wish I could do it over again.   But always nice to finish on a good note.

Q.   As you said, you're still very much in it.   What's your game plan for the weekend? 
STACY LEWIS:   I need to get off to a better start.   That's the biggest thing.   I haven't really started any of my rounds very good.   Those first four holes are hard.   They don't really fit my eye.   So got to find a way to just start out a little bit better, because I like the back nine, you can make some birdies back there.   So just got to get a better start and keep hanging in there.

Q.   And finally, can you just try to describe to us, explain to us, how difficult this golf course is playing?
STACY LEWIS:   Well, it's basically, if you miss a drive, you're chipping out sideways.   It just puts a lot of pressure on the tee ball.   But then you can't put your guard down because you can hit it in the long rough again around the greens.   It's just such a penalty for missing a shot this week and I think that's what you're seeing.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT