MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 9, 2020
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Six birdies today.
 STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.
 Q. (Wind.)  I mean, that back nine really working well for you.
 STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I played really good today.  I really hit the ball pretty good all week and didn't putt very good, so finally got a few putts to fall today.  Fortunately it could've been a lot better, so it's a little frustrating.  Pit's nice to put up good number for going overseas for a major.
 Q. Anything different you did between yesterday and today, just working on putting?
 STACY LEWIS:   Just keep trying things trying to find something to work.  I think I found something kind of with the follow-through that kind of shortened it up and seemed to hit the putts a little more solid.
 I'm just really excited with where my game is at after these couple weeks.  Got to tryout a few things I been working on.  I feel like it's in a pretty good spot going over.
 Q. Like you mentioned, a great way to end it here in Toledo.  Does this feel like a second home to you a little bit with the added family here?
 STACY LEWIS:   It does.  Get a lot of family time.  You get to stay at a house.  Doesn't feel like you're on the road as a normal tournament site.
 So it was a fun week again.  Even though the crew didn't get to come out every day, still a lot of fun off the golf course.
 Q. Not the big Lew Crew, but looked like coach Heil.
 STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.  We got a few passes for the weekend, but still so strange playing here with it being so quiet -- especially here on the last couple holes.
 So hopefully things calm down and we get everybody back out next year.
 Q. Just want to add on to that.  So at the beginning of the week you said it was going to be a weird week with no fans.  After four rounds at what feels like a hometown tournament, how do you feel going out of it?
 STACY LEWIS:   I feel good with where things are at.  I left a lot out there today but still posted a good number.
 I'm actually pretty excited with where things are at.  I know the scores may not always look it, but played some good golf and got a lot of family time, so it was nice.
 Q. Scotland just around the corner here.  Being able to prepare for a major, what does that say about how confident you are in your game?
 STACY LEWIS:   You know, five-month quarantine did a number for my game.  I needed the time.  I needed the time off.  I needed the time to kind of get healthy and get my body healthy.
 It's as good as it's felt -- knock on wood -- in a couple years.  So I'm just excited with every opportunity I get to play right now.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT