KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 16, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Yesterday you said you left something out there.   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel today?  
STACY LEWIS:   Definitely have a better feeling coming off the course today.   Just feel like I played a lot more solid; hit the ball better; definitely had more control going into the greens.   
I think less wind helped there.   Just stayed really patient and made a few putts, and added up to a pretty good score.  
   
 Q.   What was the course like out there today compared to yesterday?   
STACY LEWIS:   It was actually really good.   You know, early it was definitely a little wet because we still had a bit of rain.   Didn't have too much mud on the ball and the greens dried out actually really, really well.  
Why see any affects going into the weekend.   The course is looking really good.  
   
 Q.   How do you feel about your game going into the weekend?  
STACY LEWIS:   I'm excited.   This is a position I love to be in.   I love giving myself a chance to win.   I'm right where I need to be.   I just got to keep staying patient and get a few putts to fall.  
   
 Q.   I think this is 10 consecutive rounds for you here at par or better.   Clearly this is a course that suits you.   What about it?  
STACY LEWIS:   I don't know.   I mean, this is definitely one of the courses that I like to play.   Visually it looks really nice to play.   I haven't made quite as many birdies as I would have thought, but the greens are just tricky.   
It's definitely a ball‑striker's course.   You just have to keep hitting a bunch of greens and getting a few putts here and there.   
   
 Q.   With some of the other leaders not going off for another 45 minutes, you'll be eating dinner when they're finishing tonight.   How pleased are you to be done for the day and only have 18 tomorrow?  
STACY LEWIS:   Oh, I'm very excited.   They had the better end of the draw yesterday playing in a little bit less wind, and then today I think we got the better end of the draw.  
So it's definitely nice to have the second round done, especially just energy level going into the weekend.   To come out on a Saturday morning to finish five or six holes and then turn around and start again is pretty tough.  
I think we have a little energy level advantage.  
   
 Q.   Did you think you had caught a break this morning when you went out there early?  
STACY LEWIS:   Well, driving the to course when we hadn't got word that they were pulling us off, thinking maybe we have to go play in the rain, no.   
But I think once we got the word we're not starting until 11:00, I think we definitely had an advantage just knowing we're going to get done and everybody else won't.  
   
 Q.   Do you like wet conditions historically?   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I mean, I think this golf course, we usually play it when it's wet.   The last few days when it's been dry is kind of been abnormal for here.   So I have been used to playing this golf course wet.   
But into the greens the ball was still releasing out a little bit.   You couldn't go crazy.   If you had a downwind 7‑iron it was still releasing out.  
If you get a wedge in your hand you can spin something up there pretty close.   I definitely did that today.   I like when you have to adjust and think a little bit.   I like a challenge.   
   
 Q.   Going back to the question about knowing you've played well here in the past couple years, did you anticipate coming in here, knowing, Hey, this is the year I should be able to do something because I've played well but just haven't gotten up there yet?  
STACY LEWIS:   I think this is the kind of course I think the more you play it the more you understand it.   And so I think every year my results have shown that.   I've played a little bit better every year.  
Coming in here as rookie it's a hard golf course to play because the greens are tricky.   The more you play it and the better notes you take, definitely seems to help.  
   
 Q.   Did you even come close it a bogey today, didn't you?  
STACY LEWIS:   Probably on 8 actually was the closest I came.   I got a little bit aggressive with my first putt.   I wanted to make it and ran it about five feet by.   That's this golf course, though.   There are some greens you can get some downhill putts you just have to be careful with.  
   
 Q.   Did you just knock it close on most of your birdies and have, not teen putts, but did you make some bombs out there?   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, the longest was probably 11.   It was when it was raining a little bit.   Made one from the front edge.   I think the pin was ten or twelve on, so I made it whatever that is, 20, 30 feet.   So I made that one, but the rest of them were pretty close, within 10 feet.   
And taking advantage of the par‑5s is something you have to do here, too.  
   
 Q.   Right.   So must have been a really good ball striking day for you.   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, when I missed it, it was pretty simple chip shots.   I didn't short‑side myself at all.   The bunkers played really tough today.  
I don't know if they didn't rake them, but as you can see they're really smooth.   So once I saw I think Yani was in one early and kind of made it a goal to stay away from the bunker just so you don't get those bad lies.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
STACY LEWIS:   Sometimes you do; sometimes you don't.   I had some chip shots actually where I had a good lie so I just didn't even touch it because you don't want it rolling into a divot or something funny when you place it.  
Yeah, when the ball is your hand, it takes away getting in a divot.   Kind of frees you up a little bit because you can tee it up.  
   
 Q.   And that helps the better players you think even more?  
STACY LEWIS:   I don't know.   I think it just helps everybody.   I don't think we really needed it today.   I think the 8th fairway was the worst one.   That had a little bit of squish to it when you walked, but every other fairway was pretty good.   I think they were just being a little cautious.  
   
 Q.   You look like you may have had a (indiscernible) approach here on 9.   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I just ran through the fairway and I was in the rough and there was a big clump of grass behind it.   I was just really hoping to get it on the green and hit actually a pretty good shot.  
   
 Q.   Is that the only fairway you missed?  
STACY LEWIS:   I don't know.   I think I missed maybe one or two other ones.   If I missed them, I think I was in the first cut at least once.   Again, I was consistent and never really had to work too hard.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT