NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 4, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it did.   I mean I knew it was going to be tough today, and I love it when it's windy.   I love it when it's hard, you have to hit shots.  
I stayed so patient out there.   You know, I hit that tee shot in the water on 15 and still made par.   It was just one of those rounds you dream of having.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
STACY LEWIS:   Oh, for sure.   I mean I knew it was going to be windy.   That just fits my game to a tee.   So I love it when it's hard.   I love it when you have to grind for some pars.   But I made some long putts today and that was the difference.  
   
 Q.   Your I believe nine wins now.   Is it a little more special being here in what you consider your home state?  
STACY LEWIS:   Considering what's happened the last few months and being here in Texas, this is one of the best ones.  
   
 Q.   What does this do for your confidence?   So many near misses.   
STACY LEWIS:   It's just I've always wanted to do this, kind of run away with it on the last day, so I've kind of checked something off the list, but you know, the confidence has been there and that's not going to change.   But it's definitely nice to have another trophy.  
   
 Q.   And it was great advice from young Cole yesterday.   What you needed to do to win.   What did he say?  
STACY LEWIS:   Make some more putts.   (Laughs).  
   
 Q.   All right.   I'm now joined by the 2014 North Texas LPGA Shootout champion, Stacy Lewis.   Stacy, in your home state.   I mean you dropped the putter.   You could see how happy you were.   How are your feelings right now?  
STACY LEWIS:   It's awesome.   It's relief more than anything.   I've been so close the last few months, you know, maybe if I win one of those, I don't get it done here.   So I think it was all meant to be.   Just to be here with my family.   
COLE WYSOCKI:   That's it.   You can putt!  
STACY LEWIS:   And just hanging out with this guy all week, you can't help but smile.  
   
 Q.   You said yesterday, I said, hey, Cole, what does Stacy need to do?   Is it he said make some more putts.   You had the putter rolling.   You were sensational on the greens.   Do you think that was the key today?  
STACY LEWIS:   It was.   It was going to be hard to get the ball close, so I knew I needed to make some putts, and really, the eagle putt on 7 kind of got the ball rolling, and I just‑‑ I made par on the hard holes and made birdie when I could, and it was just an awesome day.   
   
 Q.   Just an awesome win for you.   Congratulations again.   Go enjoy this win.   Bye, Cole, have fun.   
STACY LEWIS:   Say see ya!  
COLE WYSOCKI:   See ya!  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT