NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 2, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  STACY LEWIS:   I didn't really do anything really crazy different from yesterday other than I putted a lot better, but just played really solid.   Still had a couple funky bounces out there and was able to kind of get out of the holes when I did.   I don't know, just it was easy, it was solid.   I felt nice and relaxed out there, so it was a nice day.
THE MODERATOR:   I saw with your little nephew out before the round and after the round.   What does having your family in the area do to relax you and help your mindset going into a week like this? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, it's great.   I mean, a three‑year‑old doesn't get at all what I'm doing, so it's nice to have that perspective a little bit.   I think he's more excited that we're going to go hit some balls right now than the fact that I made a birdie out there.   But it's fun.   He's starting to kind of understand things and understand what's a good hole, what's a bad hole.   But it's fun just having the family out, and it's just made the week really relaxed. 
THE MODERATOR:   Can you tell the guys what his shirt said? 
STACY LEWIS:   "My aunt is a better golfer than yours." 

Q.   How old is he?
STACY LEWIS:   He's three. 

Q.   Was it more difficult today in the wind, and because of that, does that make your round that much better?
STACY LEWIS:   You know, as the round progressed, I kind of felt‑‑ it didn't seem any harder than yesterday, but once we got to the front nine, it definitely felt like it was playing harder.   I think it was so downwind on 4, the par‑5, I think my drive went 370 there.   You really had to kind of play for what the golf course was doing.   Shots were starting to roll out, and it was definitely harder with the wind coming in those last few holes. 

Q.   I wanted to follow up about the course.   How do you think it will play the next two days?   I guess there will be a little bit more wind, especially on Sunday.   Is it all about placement out here? 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I mean, all of it‑‑ a lot of it is hitting it in the right spots, especially off the tee.   Into the greens this year versus last year, the greens are so much softer that you can actually hit good shots and get rewarded for it, so that part of it is nice.   But I see as these next couple days, I think they've done a good job so far of keeping water in the fairways, water on the greens, keeping it under control, so hopefully we do that, and then from there it's shaping shots into the wind, it's turning it against it or riding it.   It's hitting golf shots instead of just see a target and swing at it. 

Q.   As you said, today was kind of easy and felt solid for you.   Other than getting a win, hasn't the whole season kind of felt like that for you, a continuation of what you've been doing? 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it really is.   This was definitely one of the better rounds I've played over the last couple weeks as far as just making par putts when I needed to.   But this year it's just nice coming into a tournament knowing that‑‑ I shot even par yesterday, but I knew this round was out there for me.   It's just that comfort level.   It's being more relaxed out there.   I played so solid really over the last six, eight months really, and I mean, it's just nice to see all the hard work pay off. 

Q.   You've been in position this year, including last week.   Do those close calls give you more confidence?   Does the learning process give you more confidence heading into this weekend? 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, my goal every week is to put myself in contention, and I've done that a lot.   I think the more you're there, the more you understand how my body is going to react, how to play the golf course, know when other people are going for shots to really back in a little bit.   It's a comfort level, definitely.   I'm doing all the right things. 
I think I've had a bunch of seconds, and I think all of them I've shot under par in the last round.   I'm not doing anything bad, it's just all the cards are not falling my way yet.   But I'm playing good golf, and I was at the gym on Monday after I flew here working out, throwing some medicine balls against the wall, and then from there it was getting right back to work. 

Q.   I know we keep saying the Rolex Rankings race is tight at the top for No.1, but Lydia went to 2, Suzann came back to 4, you're still at 3.   Does Lydia not being here and you having the chance to jump to 2 have a little bit of extra push for you this week?   I know you always say No.1 is in the back of your head. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I mean, it would be nice, but the goal is to get to No.1.   As long as what I've done every week is kind of just been chipping away at Inbee's lead.   That was the goal coming in here this week.   If Inbee plays well there's not much I can do about it, but it's just to keep getting closer, keep getting closer, and then you win or win a couple, and all of a sudden you bump yourself up there.

Q.   We saw how big a win for Michelle was in Hawai'i, her home state.   Being called a native Texan, how crazy would this place go if come Sunday you were at the top of the leaderboard?
STACY LEWIS:   Well, it was pretty cool out there even late in the day today.   We had some good crowds out there, and people were feeling it at the turn where I think I made four birdies in a row.   It's just a lot of fun to see all the kids.   There's so many kids that come to this tournament.   That's what I love about it, so many high school aged girls out following and watching.   They want to be doing this one day, so what better opportunity than to learn from us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT