NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 3, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I'm now joined by co‑leader, Stacy Lewis here at the North Texas LPGA Shootout.   Stacy, another very solid round.   Talk about the round today, how you feel going into the final round tomorrow. 
  STACY LEWIS:   It was a bit frustrating.   I hit the ball really, really good today and gave myself a lot of chances, but I hit a lot of good putts.   You know, some days they go in and some days they don't. 
  But I really like going into tomorrow how windy it's going to be, how solid my ball striking was, and you know, it's going to be a shootout tomorrow. 
 Q.   Yeah.   I think it was Natalie mentioned, I think they aptly named this tournament, shootout.   Stacked leaderboard going into tomorrow.   Do you think that's going to influence your approach going into the final?
  STACY LEWIS:   It doesn't.   I think with the wind this golf course plays so hard, you have to stay patient and just keep giving yourself chances and hopefully you make a few putts at the end. 
 Q.   You keep saying you're so comfortable here, your family is here.   You have your No. 1 fan Cole here. 
  COLE WYSOCKI:   Yeah. 
 Q.   Cole, did you have fun today?
  COLE WYSOCKI:   Yep. 
 Q.   Who do you want to win this weekend?
  COLE WYSOCKI:   Stace. 
 Q.   Stacy.   Do you think she played well today?
  COLE WYSOCKI:   Yeah. 
 Q.   What do you think she could do better?
  COLE WYSOCKI:   Make some putts. 
 Q.   Make a couple putts.   Okay.   Hopefully she can make a couple putts tomorrow.   Thanks, Stacy.   Good luck tomorrow.
  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Well, I would like to welcome in our third round co‑leader, Stacy Lewis.   Stacy, I thought a pretty decent round, but you said some frustrations out there today.   Where were the trouble spots that are in the third round.
  STACY LEWIS:   It was very frustrating.   You know, I hit the ball so good today, especially on the Back 9, gave myself a lot of good looks at birdie, and I couldn't get a putt to go in.   I had so many that they just went right over the top edge and finished right behind the hole.   And those are putts you go back and you wouldn't really do anything different. 
  So I don't know, I mean the encouraging thing is that I'm hitting the ball great.   I have a lot of control over the different shots I'm trying to hit, which is good going into tomorrow.
  THE MODERATOR:   Take us through 18.   I know they were talking about the decision whether to hit driver or hybrid, and you absolutely crushed the tee shot.   Take us through that entire hole. 
  STACY LEWIS:   Well, actually I hit 3‑wood down there today, and you know, the last few days it's kind of been a left to right wind which usually knocks my down a little bit.   So I had a little bit of help, so I just ripped 3‑wood down there, and actually pretty far past their drivers.
  And then I was inside 200 front, so it was kind of a no‑brainer to hit it up there, and actually hit it into a pretty good spot.   And then the putt from the fringe was, if it's just the last kind of five feet, it's all downhill.   There's kind of different levels there, and if it just goes a little bit harder, it goes all the way to the hole.   So it was close to being really good.
  THE MODERATOR:   Sure.   You and Meena kind of battled back and forth all day.   Have you played a lot with her or what's impressed you about her game.
  STACY LEWIS:   I haven't played a lot of golf with her.   You know, she's just really solid.   She didn't put herself in too much trouble, kind of went over a couple of greens, but I think that's just the difference of the wind from the last two days.   It switched today.   So just very solid tee to green.
  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Stacy.  
 Q.   Stacy, you said it's encouraging that you're hitting the ball well and there's a lot of things you wouldn't do differently, but how do you kind of put this frustration behind you.   Because there were several times we could see, obviously you poked a shot and you would be looking down?
  STACY LEWIS:   I mean it's golf.   As many rounds as we play, you know, you're going to hit some putts that you think are going to miss and they end up going in.   So I mean I don't know.   It's just the way it is sometimes, and the thing about it is that I hit my lines.   I hit it the right speed.   You know, it wasn't like they were going way by the hole or anything.   They were just tap‑ins coming back.   So I'm doing a lot of good things.   The encouraging thing is that I'm tied for the lead.   Even with all the missed shots today, I'm still tied for the lead and I have a chance for tomorrow. 
 Q.   Meena missed a lot of putts as well today.   Was there something different with the greens at all?   Did they roll as pure?
  STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.   I mean no one in our group really made many putts today, and I don't know‑‑ I thought some of the hole locations were a little bit tougher.   It was harder to‑‑ a couple of back pins it was just hard to get all the way back to the hole without going over.   But as far as speed wise, they felt the same.   It was just maybe in some different spots. 
 Q.   Stacy, how do you approach tomorrow with so many players right behind you?   As leader do you go out conservatively and see what happens or do you just attack and attack?
  STACY LEWIS:   You gotta play this golf course.   I think the way‑‑ there's a couple of tee shots that are pretty goofy really on this golf course, so kind of as tricky as this golf course is, you have to be a little conservative.   But then there's some holes that if you got a wedge into a green, you can be pretty aggressive.   So it's really sticking to the same game plan. 
  I think my caddie and I have done really well.   We did well today adjusting with the wind as far as what to hit off the tees, because it was completely opposite of yesterday.   So it's going to be windy tomorrow.   It's going to play hard, which I love it.   I love it when it plays hard.   And I think, you know, the best player is definitely going to win in the wind. 
  THE MODERATOR:   Do you have any different feeling sleeping on the lead going into the final round than any other tournament, maybe not so much.   I know you've been in this position. 
  STACY LEWIS:   I've been doing it a few times.
  THE MODERATOR:   Well enough, but just having the lead now, are you more on edge?   Are you feeling a little bit of competitive juices going?   Is it any different than when you're not so much in contention.
  STACY LEWIS:   I mean it's hard to say, I've put myself in this position so many times lately, it's kind of become normal, which is a good thing.   It's a good problem to have. 
  You know, I like that I'm tied for the lead and I'm not satisfied with today's round.   That's what I like the most is that I think I'm going to come out tomorrow, you know, just kind of with a little bit more of something to prove instead of, you know, worrying about things.   And you know, I gotta go take care of myself tomorrow.   That's the most important thing with the stacked leaderboard. 
 Q.   Playing in windy conditions, how does this course play when it does get up to 25 or something like that, which is the forecast for tomorrow?
  STACY LEWIS:   You know, some holes play harder, some play easier.   It's a pretty good mix.   I think it's supposed to stay kind of southwest, which was today's wind.   So it's definitely going to play a lot different than yesterday in the wind.
  So I think when it's windy, though, I think there's a few more birdie opportunities just because some holes play shorter.   But in general, usually when it's windy it's harder.   You gotta shape some shots, you know, you have cross winds, things like that.   And I love that.   I mean I'd rather play in the wind than like today. 
  THE MODERATOR:   Not too many low scores today.   Is there a certain maybe ballpark number you think tomorrow is going to win it.
  STACY LEWIS:   I don't know.   I'm not even going to‑‑ I'm never good at that stuff.   I mean I think you just gotta take care of yourself and see what happens. 
  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Any other questions?   All right.   Well, thank you for coming in.   Good luck tomorrow. 
  STACY LEWIS:   All right.   Thank you.  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT