JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 23, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   We'd like to welcome Stacy Lewis into the interview room.   Congratulations, a great final round 66.   I know came up a little shy of where you hoped to be, but just take me through your day out there.   What really kind of worked well for you today? 
STACY LEWIS:   You know, I got off to a really poor start and pretty slow start, and then I don't know, I got to the back nine where I'm more comfortable and just kind of started to free things up a little bit, and I made birdie on 14, and you know, I kind of looked at the leaderboard and said if I can birdie the last four, you know, I can get in there and tie Webbie.   And unfortunately I just came up one shot short, but to finish the way I did, it was just really nice to hit the shots to make the putts at the end of the round and get some good‑‑ seeing putts go in always helps going into the next couple of weeks. 

Q.   How much were you scoreboard watching today, and were you able to kind of watch to see what Karrie was doing on that back nine where it just seemed like she was birdieing almost everything?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.   We didn't really see a leaderboard.   I didn't see one for a while.   Obviously the front was playing pretty tough, and we got to 12 and I looked up and saw Karrie at 17.   I mean it's hard to say you're surprised, but she keeps doing it over and over again, and so I mean she definitely became the person to beat, and you know, when her name gets to the top of the leaderboard, I mean it makes a difference.

Q.   Just in terms of her play this year, already one victory.   I mean you know Karrie pretty well.   To see what she's been able to do so far early on this year, how impressive is that?   40th career victory and now seems to be putting herself in contention quite often. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I think the amazing part is that when you talk to her, when she talks about her golf game she seems very frustrated with it.   That's the amazing part of it.   So she gets it.   She knows how to get it done.   She knows when if she's not hitting it as well, or she knows how to make a few putts and hang around.   That's what she did yesterday when we played together.   She didn't play her best, but she gave herself a chance going into tomorrow and certainly shot the numbers she needed to.

Q.   Questions for Stacy?
STACY LEWIS:   Can I introduce my friends up here?   This is Zoe and Zaley, and I've met them throughout the week and just wanted to come and give them a little behind the scenes tour of what we get to do.

Q.   I almost hate to say it, but second place again, looking at the overall perspective as you're getting ready for the Kraft, what's it tell you about your game?
STACY LEWIS:   Coming off Asia I wasn't really happy with my game, so to come out here and play the way I did and make some birdies at the end of the round, that's kind of what's been my Achilles heel over these last of couple months.   So to make some birdies at the end of the round is really encouraging.   I'm still starting to feel more comfortable with the putter.   It's still not quite where I want it, but this is really good to build off of for going into Kraft in the next couple of weeks.
THE MODERATOR:   Stacy, with having these two girls up here, you guys are kind of what this week is all about.   We talk about honoring the Founders and the future of the game.   What does this week mean overall and as you perform so well here, does it mean something more special when you do play well at this event.
STACY LEWIS:   I don't know what it is.   I think I come to this event more relaxed.   I don't normally do it, but I was signing autographs for the kids throughout the round and just talking and hanging out afterwards.   That's what this week is about, and maybe I need to carry that forward in the other weeks, but I just seem to be a little bit more relaxed this week and enjoying this, because that's what this week is about.   It's about them.   They're the future of this game, and I think we have some future golfers here, maybe a pop star, I've heard, too. 
So you know, that's what this week is about is about having fun and honoring our Founders and growing the game forward.

Q.   Karrie and you are very similar in the respect you have for the Founders, and you're a South Floridian now like Karrie.   And you probably have gotten to know Louise Suggs.   Can you talk about the relationship that Louise and Karrie have had?   Have you observed that much and what it's meant to Karrie?
STACY LEWIS:   I mean I know they have a really close relationship.   I haven't really seen it much past that.   But I've watched the way Karrie is with the older players and with the Founders, and there's a lot that a lot of the younger players can learn from her.
I've gotten to know her since I've gotten on tour, and she's been somebody I've always looked to and how to do things right and do it the right way.   And she does that, and that's probably why she's playing well here this week, too.   You know, she gets it.   She gets what this week is about. 

Q.   So if this week was more relaxed, can you describe what your normal situation is? 
STACY LEWIS:   I guess, I mean I tend to probably get too focused at times, and you get the binders on and not really pay any attention to what's going on around you.   But I don't know, I just‑‑ I try to do that more this year and be more relaxed and kind of let things happen a little bit more.   And I'm getting better with it.   I still struggle at times, but just definitely getting better with it.

Q.   But isn't being very focused the key to being able to hit the shots?
STACY LEWIS:   It is.   It's being focused at the right time.   It's‑‑ you have to know when to shut it off and when to relax a little bit.   You can't go out there and be stressed and be tense for five hours because that's going to be a really long day.   So it's knowing how to kind of relax in between shots and enjoy the moment, enjoy the scene.   That's what I remember last year walking up that last hole when all the kids came walking up around me.   You know, I really tried to take it in because there's no other tournament where we're going to have that. 
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Stacy?   Girls, do you guys have any questions? 

Q.   When did you start playing?
STACY LEWIS:   I started playing golf when I was eight, about your age.   Right?   So I started playing golf with my dad, and just kind of kept playing with him for fun and went to college and now we're here, but I know you can beat your dad.   Right?   Can you beat your dad yet.

Q.   No?
STACY LEWIS:   No?   I think it's coming pretty soon.   Do you have a question?   You're getting shy on me all of a sudden, aren't you? 

Q.   What's your favorite ice cream? 
STACY LEWIS:   My favorite ice cream, I like vanilla ice cream with a lot of sprinkles on top.   What's yours?   Do you like chocolate or vanilla? 

Q.   I'd say chocolate?
STACY LEWIS:   You're more chocolate.   I like lots of sprinkles, though.   Gotta have lots of toppings; right?   You have another question? 

Q.   When did you get famous?
STACY LEWIS:   When did I get famous.   (Laughs).   I guess when I came out on tour here I got pretty famous.   I don't know.   I guess you'd have to tell me that.   When did you see me the first time?   Is did you see me on TV before?   Or did you see me at this tournament? 

Q.   I don't know?
STACY LEWIS:   You don't know.   I don't know.   You keep working really hard and you'll be right up here one day.   Sound good? 

Q.   What would you say your best part of the game is?
STACY LEWIS:   Probably my consistency.   I hit the ball really good.   The putter gets a little streaky.   So the putter needs to get a little bit better, but I always seem to hit the ball really solid.   Anything else?   Did we cover it? 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Thanks, girls.   Those were great questions.   I might have to bring you on the road with us. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT