PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
January 26, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We'd like to welcome in our runner‑up, Stacy Lewis.   First of all, what a round of golf today.   I got a chance to walk a little bit of the front nine and watch the display you put on over the first eight holes; six birdies in eight holes.   What was going through your mind there early in the round when you were just so hot it seemed like you couldn't miss? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, early it was‑‑ I mean, overall it's probably one of the best ball‑striking days I've ever had.   Whatever number I needed to hit, I hit it.   I almost holed out on the first hole, hit it in there eight feet on the second hole.   I left two putts short right in the center and short in those first eight holes, or I could have been 8‑under through 8.   But I hit good putts, they just didn't cooperate.   They seemed to lip out or kind of bobble at the end, but I kept hitting good shots and kept giving myself chances.   That's really all you can do.
THE MODERATOR:   Is that what you're going to take away from this day?   Your great play all week long, your irons looked like they've been magic all week.   I know it was disappointing to walk away on 18 and not see that putt drop, but can you take away from this week how great your swing seems to be feeling? 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, even the first three days I hit the ball great.   It wasn't just today, I hit it great all week.   Just the grain in the greens, and I didn't make many putts this week.   I don't know how many putts I had, I just didn't make many.   But more than anything, I'm playing well.   That's the big thing.   Coming off the off‑season, we worked on a bunch of things with my golf swing, and I'm excited.   They feel great, what we were working on, so I'm excited about that. 
It's one shot here and there.   I only birdied the 18th hole once all week, and I think at the end of the day, you can look at not birdieing it Thursday or Friday, and we're in a different position.

Q.   What was the lie like on the chip on 18? 
STACY LEWIS:   It wasn't bad.   There was kind of a clump of grass right behind the ball, and there was more underneath than I thought.   Taking practice swings, I thought I was going to kind of pop through there pretty good, but it just came out really fluffy.

Q.   Did you feel like you hit a good second shot at 18?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I hit the exact shot I wanted to.   I had a little downhill lie, so I knew it was going to come off a little low.   But I still thought that would help it kind of land short into that hill and just bounce up there.   But I think three of the four days I was over that green and didn't make birdie from there, so I guess that's not the place to be.   But at the same time, again, I hit my number and I hit my shot. 

Q.   How hard is this to swallow?
STACY LEWIS:   It's very frustrating.   The 18th hole has gotten me the last couple tournaments.   I've had so many chances to win.   It's very frustrating, but to finish second a lot of weeks in a row, you're not doing anything really wrong.   That's what I'm taking out of it is I'm doing a lot of stuff right.   There's more events and there's bigger tournaments this summer, so I'm just going to take this momentum from here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT