PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
January 25, 2014
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We're here with Stacy Lewis, who shot a 5‑under par today, three shots off the lead.   Eagles were flying today.   It was amazing.   You holed out on the 13th.   Take us through that hole. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I had 94 yards, and into 11 I had 92 yards, so it was a similar shot that I just had and didn't hit a good one on 11, so I wanted to be aggressive there, even though it probably wasn't a pin you should be too aggressive on, and just flew it back there perfect and one hopped and went in.   It was nice because I wasn't really making any putts, so it definitely helped not having to putt there. 

Q.   You know, it's the first day for the Wounded Warrior contributions, so we're at seven today? 
THE MODERATOR:   We're at nine right now. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about how important that is?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, the Wounded Warrior Project, they've been associated with our Tour for a long time, especially the events in Alabama seem to do a lot with it.   This golf course today was set up for eagles.   A lot of the par‑5s on the front you could reach, and then the tee was up on 6, so it really set up to make some eagles today.   So it made it exciting, and you've got a pretty stacked leaderboard.   The course was set up to shoot a number today.
THE MODERATOR:   You mentioned that stacked leaderboard.   There was five different players either in the lead or a share of the lead today.   How aware were you when you were out there playing of what was going on? 
STACY LEWIS:   You know, I didn't really look at a leaderboard or really even see one until after 14 and saw I think I was either tied or one shot back.   I knew if I could get to 11‑under today, which is where the leaders started, I knew I would get into position for tomorrow. 
That was kind of the number I had in the back of my mind.   But finally birdieing 18 this week was a good way to finish and definitely got me in a spot where I can have a chance tomorrow. 
THE MODERATOR:   Today seemed like a perfect day out there, especially compared to yesterday.   Talk about the difference in play between yesterday and today. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, so much easier today.   Our front nine, which was the actual back nine, was brutal.   We were out 13, 14, 15 probably in the worst of it, and on 15 you could‑‑ I think I was swaying over the putt.   It was definitely a lot easier today.   Still had to manage the wind a little bit, but there wasn't a three‑club wind today. 

Q.   (Question regarding her position on the leaderboard.) 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, it depends what position.   If you're coming from behind, I think it's a good spot to be in.   If you've got the lead and you've got all these people chasing you, I think it's a hard position to be in.   I actually like where I am and I like that I'm going to get out tomorrow a couple groups early and hopefully can make a couple putts early and then kind of put some pressure on the leaders. 
But I think when people are making birdies and eagles, it's hard to‑‑ it's a hard place to be up there in the lead.

Q.   With a crowded leaderboard do you prefer conditions like today or yesterday? 
STACY LEWIS:   I don't know.   I mean, the first tournament of the year I'd prefer today's conditions.   I don't think first tournament of the year anybody wants to be out there struggling trying to stand still over putts or anything.   I think if you ask any player, they're going to prefer the better conditions. 
But I don't know, at the same time I like where I'm at. 

Q.   Would you also comment on the two players who are currently atop the board, Na Yeon Choi and Lizette Salas. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, Lizette, we played a lot of golf together, played a couple‑‑ played a match at Solheim together.   She's a great player.   She grinds it out.   She's a really good putter.   I think in situations where she's had chances to win, she's gotten nervous, so I hope that she's learned from those situations and can handle it a little bit better tomorrow because she's a player that should be winning, should have won by now, and I think it's just a matter of time. 
And NaYeon, she's one of those‑‑ she's like Inbee, you just expect her to be there.   You know she's going to be there at the end of the week.   She may not play‑‑ I don't think she won at all last year, but she's a player you just expect to be there, and she's somebody that she's really good with her putter when it's on, and she's definitely tough to beat when she's rolling the ball. 

Q.   Do you think it sends a message to Suzann and Inbee by winning the first week out?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I definitely think it would.   I think just playing well here, I think that would send a message.   I don't know how much golf they're actually watching right now.   They probably aren't paying attention to it, knowing those two, but yeah, I mean, I think‑‑ do you think they're watching?   I don't think they're watching it.   I mean, for me it's just more confidence.   The first tournament you just never know how you're really going to come out after that long of a break, and just to come out and play well, it's a confidence builder. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT