REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
October 6, 2013
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STACY LEWIS:   I just kind of feel like it was just taken from me.   You'd like to win on a good shot, but obviously it wasn't a good shot, so it's very frustrating.   It was a frustrating day just with the crowds and dealing with all of that.   So it was just really hard to play today.  
   
 Q.   You didn't play badly by any means.   Is that kind of a boost in your moral, I mean obviously it's tough.   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I mean I played well.   It was hard to see there at the end so it was kind of hard to make putts.   And early some of the hole locations were hard.   It just played tougher today, but I played really solid and stuck to my game plan all day and just came up one putt short.  
   
 Q.   Like we said coming down to the last couple of holes, it came down to the last shot, did you foresee kind of coming down the stretch, you guys were going back and forth pretty much, not back and forth as much as yesterday, but you had the lead and she kind of came back?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.   I mean I knew even though I got off to a really good start, I knew she was going to be there at the end.   I knew it was going to come down to 18, and I mean it was just bottom line.   
So my game plan was I was going to do my plan to make birdie.   I was going to go for it with the yardage I had.   You know, it wasn't even a question.   So I stuck to my game plan and did what I wanted to do and unfortunately it wasn't enough.  
   
 Q.   If anything it's a consolation that she wins here.   What an amazing thing for her.   Obviously you said yesterday if anyone was to win, it could be her other than you.   Talk about her coming down the stretch and hitting that shot.   It was pretty unreal in front of that crowd.   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, to play in front of your hometown crowd like that is tough, and she played really well all week and just got a nice bounce there at the end.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT