REIGNWOOD LPGA CLASSIC
October 5, 2013
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   All right.   Well, yesterday you said you wanted to start off fast, and you were much better today in taking care of the par‑5s.   So just talk about starting off strong and kind of managing those.   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.   I definitely got off to a better start, more comfortable early, and I think birdieing the par‑5 was ‑‑ 5 or 6, whatever hole that is.   6.   And I made a really good birdie there and that kind of spurred things on, and then I almost made a hole‑in‑one on the next hole.   So got off to a really good start, and again, finished really nice which you have to do on this golf course.   
   
 Q.   Talk about that shot on 7?  
STACY LEWIS:   7, yeah.  
   
 Q.   You thought it was going to go in.   
STACY LEWIS:   Well, couldn't see very well, but it was 185 to the pin, and I hit 5‑iron and it was tracking the whole way and just ended up a couple of inches right of the cup.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say, it was six inches.   
STACY LEWIS:   Less than that, maybe.  
   
 Q.   I guess talk about you and Shanshan going back and forth battling.   That had to be a momentum giver just seeing her make shots, you guys were kind of just feeding off of each other.   Talk about that.   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it was a lot of fun.   It's a lot of fun when you make that many birdies yourself, but then to see somebody else doing it, too.  
I felt like every time I got close she would make another birdie to kind of step away, so chipping in on 17 was huge when she had just hit it stiff, and then to make birdie on top of her on 18, I mean I needed to do that.   I needed to keep close for tomorrow.  
But it was fun.   I mean you could tell the crowd was definitely cheering for her, but she deserves it.   I mean we're in her home country.   So I know it's going to be that way, but I would love to spoil the fun a little bit.  
   
 Q.   How long was the putt on 18?  
STACY LEWIS:   Maybe five feet.  
   
 Q.   How big was that?  
STACY LEWIS:   It was huge.   I hit a great shot in there just short of the Green in two and then I hit a pretty good chip shot.   It was about the same length of putt I had on yesterday on 18.   So I wanted to try to make up for that putt yesterday.  
   
 Q.   And then birdie putt on 15, do you remember?  
STACY LEWIS:   Oh, that was the drivable hole.   I hit it just short of the green and then chipped up to maybe six, seven feet and made that.  
   
 Q.   How big is that, the chip‑in?   That was a big smile.   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, that was definitely the worst shot I hit of the day, and got pretty lucky that it stayed there.   It was really sandy.   So it was kind of a hard shot and did exactly what we thought it was going to do.  
But just knowing she was hitting it in there close and the way she was putting all day Shanshan was going to make it.   So I needed to do something.   I was glad I did.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that was kind of a momentum, if you didn't sink that, that maybe things would have come out differently?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.   If I don't chip in there and don't make birdie on 18 I'm three shots behind going into tomorrow.   So those two shots are huge for the momentum of leading into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I haven't seen the back and forth that much in a while.   Have you been involved in that recently?  
STACY LEWIS:   I haven't really, but I mean I'm not surprised.   Shanshan is hitting the ball great, and I mean Jess Korda and I were standing off to the side we're like she's going to make another one.   She was just rolling it so good tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   All right.   Thoughts for tomorrow.   I don't like to ask for numbers.   
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I don't think you go into it with a number.   You just have to go out there with ‑‑ when people are making this many birdies, you have to go out there and take care of yourself, so that's what I'm going to try to do.  
   
 Q.   And I like your line of you wouldn't mind to spoil the fun.   Obviously people in the States, you'd have the gallery and everyone cheering for you, but it's going to be a little bit of a different feeling.   Have you ever ‑‑ I'm thinking of a country where that's happened where you've kind of played and been kind of the underdog.   
STACY LEWIS:   Well, in Korea we get it a lot.   
   
 Q.   Sure.   
STACY LEWIS:   But I think when we play in Asia in general that's just kind of the way it is.   And we all know it's going to be that way.   She deserves it.   Shanshan deserves this crowd.   I mean she brought us here.   She's the reason we're playing here, so we deserves it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT