THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2013
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Just take me through.   What were some of the highlights for you out there today?  
STACY LEWIS:   I just played solid.   Wasn't really anything crazy.   Definitely played better on my back nine.   Hit couple close on the par‑3s.   Made a couple easy birdies.  
It was just a steady day.   Could have been better; could have been worse, too.  
   
 Q.   Conditions today, I know it's cold in the morning, but other than that pretty good?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, the golf course played about the same.   Greens are a definitely a little better playing in the morning versus the afternoon.   
It was nice.   Made a few putts.   It was nice out there so far.  
   
 Q.   Overall with your game this week, what have been the highlights and something you can keep improving?   
STACY LEWIS:   I don't know.   I mean, I've just played solid.   I haven't done anything crazy good yet, which is kind of nice.   I haven't played my best round yet, which is good.   Hopefully we play tomorrow.  
I think my putting has got better today.   It can still get better.   I mean, the good part is I haven't played my best golf yet.  
   
 Q.   Playing with Suzann, did you feed off that?   Do you pay attention?   
STACY LEWIS:   I don't think you really pay attention.   We were all struggling yesterday with the greens.   But I mean, I don't know.   Suzann and Shanshan, they're easy to play with.   Just makes it a nice day.  
   
 Q.   Looking at a 54‑hole event, how do you change your mindset in terms of a major championship and knowing one more round to go?  
STACY LEWIS:   Well, it's unfortunate.   I think a major should be 72 holes.   I would have liked to have seen a cut to 50 instead of 70 and try to get 72 in.   
But 54 holes is a shootout, so you just got to go out there tomorrow and do the best you can.   It's hard not playing 72 holes for a major.  
   
 Q.   How much do you guys watching these weather forecasts in terms of knowing when you play, what might happen, how uncertain is that?  
STACY LEWIS:   I think it's been pretty clear to everyone what happening today.   It's going to be fine today.   As the day goes on it's going to get worse.   We know it in the back of your mind.   You go out and play the best you can.   
Coming back tomorrow the course is going to be completely different.   It's going to be muddy and wet.   You just got to adjust and see what you can do.   
   
 Q.   Perfect.   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT