SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 31, 2013
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So I'm assuming you are thrilled with the day.   Just take us through the string of five on the front. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, the difference today was I got off to a better start.   That stretch of five certainly helped a lot.   Back nine I hit good shots.   I hit a bunch of putts on the edge, made a couple good pars from the trees off the tee.   I don't know, I couldn't have gotten a whole lot more out of it, so I'm pretty happy with it.

Q.   You said scrambling here is pretty important because you're going to miss a couple of fairways because it's so narrow.   How important is that in being able to recover and grind out‑‑ it looked like a pretty easy round on the scorecard. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, the back nine was not easy by any means.   You're going to miss a shot, it's going to catch a tree here and there, and luckily I got a couple good breaks in the trees where I had a second shot.   18 I got a really good break and was fortunate to hit a good shot on the green.
Other than those couple putts on the edge, I mean, I can't be too upset about it.

Q.   How often have you played a bogey‑free tournament?
STACY LEWIS:   I have no idea.   I know I've gone in stretches, I've gone in some long stretches before.   A couple years ago I went on a stretch, I think Mizuno until Lorena's I went bogey‑free for a while, but I don't know if I've gotten this far in a tournament doing it.   I think the only time I thought about it was on 14; I had about a 15‑footer for par, and all I was thinking about was I have to make this so I stay bogey‑free.   I know I'm doing it and I realize it, but I'm playing so solid, you're just not even really worried about making a bogey. 

Q.   You missed a few fairways but I think you only missed one green. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.

Q.   Is it just you're getting good lies?
STACY LEWIS:   I mean, it's kind of missing fairways at the right time.   I missed the fairway on 10 and I had to chip out, but then I hit hybrid onto the green.   18, instead of hitting a 9‑ or 8‑iron into the green, I had to hit hybrid.   I think you do it in the right places.   I don't know, I mean, I think there is some luck to it because that ball on 18 could have gone on the driving range if it wanted to. 
Just as soon as I hit it, I asked the trees to throw it out, and it did.

Q.   Did you notice the 62 that was up this morning?
STACY LEWIS:   I did.   I was warming up on the putting green, and I think everybody on the putting green kind of stopped and watch her hit her birdie putt there on 18.   It was pretty cool to get out that early, and it's hard to play by yourself.   It's hard to‑‑ because you get going so fast that you kind of get out of your rhythm.   62 is a pretty good score around this course.

Q.   You know Austin decently well.   You were kind of a little bit of a mentor when she first came on.   To see a rookie do that and progress through her year‑‑
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, she's very talented.   I kind of talked with her a little bit in Australia and we talked about just goals and things like that, and she's played really solid this year.   I mean, it didn't surprise me at all that she was shooting 62.   Maybe some people didn't know her name, but she's good enough that she can definitely shoot that and shoot it again probably, too.

Q.   Did the course change much today? 
STACY LEWIS:   No, it was really a little drier, but shots into greens were still holding and spinning back sometimes.   Drying out in the fairways a little bit. 

Q.   Are the greens kind of the same speed, though?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, greens are similar speed to yesterday.   The first day they were a little slower just because of the water and the rain, but the last two days they've been consistent.

Q.   Would you consider tomorrow kind of a shootout type situation?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I mean, today, this whole tournament is a shootout.   I knew I needed something around 65 to just get myself in the mix, and hopefully I'm not too far away.   But whoever wins tomorrow is probably going to shoot 65 or better.   You know that in the back of your mind, and you've just got to go make some birdies. 

Q.   You look so relaxed, you're kind of coming off of Solheim and having some frustrations; do you think you can really handle dealing with frustrations and your emotions and things like that because I feel like you completely have gone above and beyond what you were working at?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I think over the last year it's been my goal of how do you manage expectations, how do you kind of‑‑ you win tournaments, all of a sudden, you think, gosh, I'll be winning every week.   So you manage your expectations.   You don't get quite as upset about those bad rounds.   I was upset with yesterday, but I sat on the putting green for an hour and just worked on it, and I knew if I started making a couple early today I'd be fine.   I don't know, I'm maturing a little bit and getting more comfortable in this role, getting more comfortable with people watching.   We had crowds following my group all day today, so getting more comfortable with that, too. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I think a tournament like this comes down to who's putting the best, and I'm not a fan of that.   I'd rather see‑‑ I like majors where every part of your game is tested.   This golf course does test you some, but at the end of the day, it's who makes the most putts.   But that's why you have weeks like this and that's why you have majors. 

Q.   A story line since yesterday, Sophie tweeted out, sort of announced stepping back, not official retirement, but just thoughts on that? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I was surprised, but I also didn't realize that Sophie was turning 40 this year.   She doesn't act her age or anything.   She doesn't‑‑ I don't know, I was a little surprised, but I'm happy for her.   I mean, when you get at a place with this game where you can step away when you're ready‑‑ you don't want to step away because you've lost your card or because you're not playing well.   She's stepping away because she's ready, and I think that's the best way to do it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT