CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 28, 2019
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Alongside Stacy Lewis at the Cambia Portland Classic, the 2017 champion. You just came off a pro-am round. How does the course look?  
STACY LEWIS: The course is amazing, as always. This is definitely my favorite track we get to play all year. The greens are firm and fast, and as always, it's going to be a good test this week.   
 Q.  What's your favorite part of the course?  
STACY LEWIS: I just love it. It just feels right. It's cooler here than Texas, that's for sure, and just -- I don't know, I just have always felt comfortable here and played a lot of good golf on this golf course.   
 Q.  You weren't here in 2018 due to maternity leave. What's it feel to be defending your title from 2017 now?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it does feel like I'm defending since I haven't been back, but just to be back on a track that you love and a track that fits your eye and to help build some momentum for Solheim Cup and to kind of keep working on things is the goal this week.   
 Q.  Caddie Travis was with Marina Alex last year when she won. He's going for the three-peat. Does he talk about that at all?  
STACY LEWIS: He gets a little grief from the other caddies. They're coming up, hey, what's the trick around this golf course and things like that. You know, he knows some of the numbers without having to look at the yardage book, so he's been around this place more than I have, so it's nice to have somebody that knows their way around like that, too.   
 Q.  What's the best piece of advice he's given you about this golf course?  
STACY LEWIS: I don't know. It's just -- you can tell he's comfortable on it. You can get numbers to bunkers without having to look down. You know where to hit it without kind of studying your yardage book, and it's nice to be comfortable here.   
 Q.  This is your last test before heading over to the Solheim Cup. What are you focusing on tuning up in your game before heading to the Solheim Cup?  
STACY LEWIS: It's just the little things, kind of wedges and putter. That's something that you really have to do well at Solheim and make some key putts and you've got to make birdies when you've got wedges in your hand. Those are kind of the focuses this week, and just to keep building some momentum and keep playing good golf.   
 Q.  You also had quite a big week already being picked, everything that's kind of come with that. Has that affected your preparation here?  
STACY LEWIS: It hasn't. I've been pretty tired and I'm going to go rest this afternoon, but it's been a good busy. It's a problem I wanted to have. I wanted to not be a pick and wanted to be on the team on my own, but to be a pick, it's just a really tremendous honor, that Juli sees that in me and she knows what I've gone through this year with the baby, and so I'm super excited to go over there and just help the team any way I can.   
 Q.  You feel like you're defending champion now because you didn't play last year; how different does it feel coming back here now as a mother?  
STACY LEWIS: Everything is different. Doing anything as a mom is different. I'm more worried about her. As soon as I get done playing, it's I want to get all my stuff done so I can go pick her up. Priorities are elsewhere. But once I'm on the golf course, golf is definitely still the same.   
 Q.  Last thing about Portland, you mentioned loving the course, but what do you like about the surrounding area and coming here?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, there's so many good food spots. That's the one thing. You can get just so many kind of local spots you have to go to and go see the sights. You can go on hikes, you can go out to the beach. There's so many cool things to do here, and I've done a lot of them because I've been here so many years now. It's one I kind of circle on the calendar and make sure it's on my schedule.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT