MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 21, 2013
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Pretty good round.   
STACY LEWIS:   Thank you.   It was pretty good.   I don't know where it came from.   I worked on my putting for couple hours yesterday, and I guess I found something that made it click.  
But it was easy.   I left three or four on the edge.   It was just a really nice day.   I was glad to give the Lou Crew something to cheer about and go out on a high note.  
   
 Q.   What of the putting the key then?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it was.   Yesterday I hit 15 greens and just didn't get much out of it.   Today I hit even a few more and just finally made some putts.   So I made some longer ones, which I hadn't been doing all week.  
   
 Q.   Was it important for to finish given you struggled a little bit in the first few rounds?  
STACY LEWIS:   I think that's just the way I play.   It doesn't matter if I'm out of it or not.   I am going to go out there and try to make as many birdies as I can.  
Once I started making a few, I said, If I can get inside the top 10, I think that would be a pretty good week.  
   
 Q.   The putt on 18, looked like you knew right away.   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it kind of bounced off the face a little bit and hit a mark on the green.   It was a tricky putt.   It could have gone either way.   I was just glad to have a putt to go to 10‑under.   I think at the beginning of the day I would have loved that.  
   
 Q.   Overall, sum up the tournament experience.   
STACY LEWIS:   It's been a great.   It's busy for me, but it's a lot of fun to get back and see my family.   And just to play the way I did today, it was awesome to go out on a high note.  
   
 Q.   It a little specialto ‑‑ this is really the first time you really put on a show for the hometown people.   
STACY LEWIS:   I mean, I think they've seen me play that way on TV before but never in person, so it was nice to give them something to cheer about.   
They were feeling it on the back nine and making some birdies there at the end.   They've been great.   They followed me all four days.   They struggled in the heat and struggled when I was making bogeys.  
So I was just glad to be able to make a few today.  
   
 Q.   A week break and then we've got the British coming up.   How are you feeling about the state of your game heading into that major?  
STACY LEWIS:   I'm feeling pretty good about it.   I've had some rounds where my putter is going in the right direction.   So I definitely feel like it's moving in the right direction.   I just need to get a little bit more consistent.  
I am looking forward to a week off.   It's the first time I get to go home in five and a half weeks.   Looking forward to just getting home and just being able to practice and kind of work on a few things.   
But I feel like I'm moving in the right direction.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT