U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The course was set up a little differently today.   It was shorter; can you just talk about how you found it?   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I was surprised.   First‑‑ we started on the back, and the first three holes I had pitching wedge, pitching wedge, 9‑iron into.   So it was definitely set‑up a lot easier today, a lot more scorable.   Not surprised Inbee shot what she did because it was definitely out there.   But I was definitely surprised at how, I mean, how many tees were moved up.   I'd say over half the tees were moved up today.  
   
 Q.   Did that make it difficult just because you were practicing from other tees?   
STACY LEWIS:   No, not really.   It was kind of nice to hit a 9‑iron instead of a 5‑iron into the green.   It just played differently.   The greens were more receptive from up there.   I don't know.   It was just a different course today.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you left some out there?   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, probably.   I mean, I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in, and I got a bad lie on 8 where I probably had a pretty easy birdie, so I definitely felt like I left some out there.   
But they were kind of things that were out of my control.   So I felt like I did a lot of really good things.   I'm excited with the way I hit the ball, especially some of those shots I hit at the end into 6 and 7 were really good.   So I'm excited about where my game is.   This is not a tournament you want to lead‑‑ I don't think you want to lead after the first day because it's hard to maintain that for four days.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned putting.   Had you ever seen anybody putt the way Inbee's putting now?   
STACY LEWIS:   She putts like that every week.   I don't know, I mean, it's every round I play with her.   She always putts like that.   I think everything inside 10 feet, other than that last hole, she made everything.   So that's the way Inbee plays.   She's steady.   She'll hit a bad drive here and there but she'll get up‑and‑down from 100 yards and that's just her game.  
   
 Q.   What is it like being in that marquis group?   The USGA likes to put the top three players together.   What did that feel like?   
STACY LEWIS:   That was fun.   It was cool to have that buzz, and just to be included in that group is an honor.   But to play with the No. 1 in the world, that's what you want to be doing.   You want to see what she's doing to play as well as she is.   And right now, she's solid.   She's hitting the ball close and she's making putts, but it was nice to have that buzz out there.  
   
 Q.   How did you find the hole locations today?   Do you think they'll be able to make them a lot tougher?   
STACY LEWIS:   They were a pretty good mix, actually.   There were a couple that were on the front where you had wedges in where there were some pretty easy birdies.   But it was a pretty good mix of pins.   There were a couple holes that played long.   2 played really tough today.   So I thought it was overall the pins were pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Are you happy the way you grinded it out?   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I did.   I definitely grinded today.   I was at 1‑over and probably could have gone the other way pretty quick.   So I was proud of being able to shoot under par.   That was kind of my goal on the back nine was to shoot under par.   So that was‑‑ I said it coming into the week I need to be level; I need to kind of grind it out, and that is what I did today, so I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Was there a turning point there that you said, hey, let's turn it around, or looking back on it, was there a turning point that really got it going better for you?  
STACY LEWIS:   Actually, probably making par on 5.   I hit it in the fairway bunker and thought I wasn't going to have a shot.   But I was fortunate to hit it into the green and got it up‑and‑down for par, and that really got things going the right way.   Hit a good shot into 6, birdied 7, thought I was going to birdie 8 and then finished off pretty good too.   I don't know.   I'm just excited about where my game's at.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT