LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 17, 2013
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just talk about your round. 
STACY LEWIS:   It was good.   It was just a solid day.   You know, I definitely let a few go.   Definitely could've made some coming in. 
I hit it really well and took advantage of the par‑5s, so it was a good day.

Q.   I got to ask you, on the sixth hole I think you were about to line up a putt and the a bee came by right as you were about to lift up. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah. 

Q.   You had to I guess back off and gather yourself.   Was that a first?
STACY LEWIS:   No.   It happens all the time.   It was one of big ones so just I was trying to make sure I didn't hit the ball when I backed off it.

Q.   What was it like playing with Ai today?   Seemed like you guys were pretty much the same score almost the entire round. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, you know, we play together a lot and our games are pretty similar.   We seem to play well on the same golf courses.
I didn't play well here last year.   I knew she won.   So coming into it I knew I could play well here just because she had played well here. 
She's great to play with.   She plays fast.   We kind of play at the same speed and play the same game, so it makes it really easy I think for both of us.

Q.   What aspects of the course do you feel like you might have handled better this time around than last year? 
STACY LEWIS:   I hit the ball a lot better.   I was a lot more consistent.   I think I hit almost every fairway.   I had a lot of birdie opportunities. 
The greens are running a little slow, so you just need to keep giving yourself chances.

Q.   You mentioned coming into the finish, I think 15 and 16 were both close opportunities.   Do you feel like where you were right now, is this good enough to win this tournament? 
STACY LEWIS:   Oh, yeah.   I mean, I might need one something lower.   Just kind of depends on the wind more than anything.
I mean, it's a good start.   It's hard to lead the tournament from the first day and lead for four days.   It's really hard.   I like my position.   I know that I'm playing some good golf.

Q.   I guess lastly, what do you think of the field that's out here?   It seems like pretty much everybody came.   I haven't had a chance to glace at the leaderboard right now, but pretty competitive so far, it seems like. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, the leaderboard is great.   This is one of the best fields we've had all year.   A lot has to do I think with we're in Hawaii. 
It's hard to say no to come on vacation for a week.

Q.   For you overall, everyone has been talking about the No. 1 ranking.   How much do you put that in the back of your mind and focus on golf this week?
STACY LEWIS:   It's been in the back of my mind since I became No. 1.   I knew I would lose it at some point.   I never had a goal of staying there for a certain amount of time.
I think it's good for the tour when players are going back and forth and creating scenarios of if so‑and‑so wins they could be No. 1.   I like that.
I don't want to say it's easier, but it's fun now.   You're checking what Yani is doing, you're checking what Inbee is doing.   I think it's a good thing for the tour.

Q.   This was the only event you missed the cut last year, right?
STACY LEWIS:   Yes.

Q.   So a little extra motivation that kind of comes from that when you come back and you're thinking, This was the one event that kind of baffled me last year. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.   It was kind of the turning point for me.   It was the point where I had to get things taken care of off the course.   It really kind of showed me how important that is to playing well, having everything in its place. 
So I learned a lot from this tournament last year.   I think you learn more from failures than you do from success. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT