LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 18, 2013
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   All right, we'd like to welcome Stacy Lewis into the interview room.   Congratulations.   Solid round today.   
Take me through the day.   I know the conditions today were much different than yesterday out there on the golf course.   What was it like playing out there and how much more difficult was it with the wind?   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, we were warming up at 6:30, 7:00 in the morning and the wind is howling.   I mean, going into the day sitting on the range you knew it was going to be hard.   You just had to fight for every shot.  
You know, you couldn't really try to make too many birdies.   You just had to kind of take some putts if they came and grind out a few pars.   Anything under par today, I think, is a good score.   
MODERATOR:   You were talking yesterday about playing with Ai and how you guys seem to play well on the same types of golf courses.   What is it about this golf course that you think suits both of your games?   
STACY LEWIS:   Um, I don't know.   I think we both hit it pretty straight.   We both can tend to make some longer putts.   I think to play well on this course you have to make some longer putts.  
I think if we ‑‑ best ball on the back nine I think we would've shot 8‑under today.   It's always fun playing with her because we go back and forth making birdies.   
I would say coming down the end we will probably be pretty close, too.   
MODERATOR:   When you look at today, considering that the wind might still be strong in the afternoon as well, do you think there was an advantage of playing in the afternoon yesterday and the morning today?   Did you notice the wind pick up as the day went on, or were they pretty steady the entire time?   
STACY LEWIS:   I would say yesterday it was pretty calm all day.   So definitely probably an advantage to get out early today.   The course will be a little softer.   Maybe the green is a little more receptive.   Definitely at the end of the day they started releasing out a little more.  
I definitely think it was an advantage to play in the morning today.   It was howling at 7:00, so I don't think it's going to get much easier as the day goes on.  
   
 Q.   After playing with Ai, what do you feel like she did best today?  
STACY LEWIS:   I think the best thing about her is she doesn't let a bad shot get to her.   She'll make a bogey and be okay with that, because she knows she can make some birdies.  
You know, really, the last five holes she didn't hit any shots particularly close to the hole, she just made some long putts.   With the greens slower and the way they are, that's what have to do.   
So she's really consistent and level and kind of doesn't let good or bad shots get to her.  
   
 Q.   How tall are you?   
STACY LEWIS:   5'5".  
   
 Q.   What it's like to be the tallest person in your threesome?  
STACY LEWIS:   I told my caddie yesterday, You must feel really tall.   I think it's he's almost six feet tall.   
It's definitely different.   I'm used to being the short one.  
   
 Q.   Just based on what she's done here the last couple years and what you're doing this week, is it an advantage to be short?  
STACY LEWIS:   I don't know.   I think what Michelle Wie was saying about her putting stance and trying to get lower to the ground, so maybe it is.   I don't know.   
To play well on this golf course you got to hit it straight.   I think that's the biggest thing this week.  
   
 Q.   Can we go over the birdies?   
STACY LEWIS:   My birdies?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
STACY LEWIS:   Let's see, we started on the back, so 13, the par‑5, I made probably a 25‑footer down the hill for birdie there.  
Then made the turn and went to 1.   I hit a wedge to about four feet and made birdie.  
Then the other par‑5, 5, I hit hybrid into the green and was kind of hole‑high right and chipped it about five feet and made that for birdie.  
No. 6 I made a great birdie.   Drove it right and hit it to about 35, 40 feet below the hole and then made that for birdie.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
STACY LEWIS:   Depends how the scores fall.   I made bogey on the last hole and I thought if I was at 7 I could have a chance to be in the last group.   
I'll be in the last couple groups, and, I mean, that's where I want to be going into the weekend.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
STACY LEWIS:   Well, it depends on the conditions.   If the wind calms down you can make some birdies.   If it's like this the rest of the weekend, par is your partner.  
You take as many pars as you can and make some birdies here and there.   
MODERATOR:   Ai has talked about the advantage of having grown up in Okinawa and had windy conditions.   You grew up in Texas where it's windy as well.   Do you feel pretty comfortable playing in wind?   Does it suit you?   
STACY LEWIS:   I don't know.   I don't know if the wind particularly suits me.   I hit it pretty high.   Ai hits it a little bit lower than I do.   I hit it high and have more spin, so doesn't necessarily help me with the wind.  
I like it because it's hard.   You have to shape shots and see shots in your head.   It's not your normal just get up there and aim at the target right down the middle.   You have to be a little bit more creative, I guess.   
MODERATOR:   Any more questions for Stacy?   All right, thank you very much.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT