MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
July 14, 2019
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Congratulations on your best-ever finish in this event.  When in became apparent you weren't going to win midway through the back nine, what was the mindset?  
STACY LEWIS: Just to make as many birdies as I can.  With Solheim and end-of-year stuff, third place is better than fourth and second is better than third.   
Just trying to keep moving up the board and get some momentum into next week.   
 Q.  Yeah.  Sounds like your play really started to get a lot better in the last two weeks.  
STACY LEWIS: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to the next three weeks?  
STACY LEWIS: Well, I'm excited for next week to get with my partner, Gerina.  Just to have some momentum going into majors, a stretch where just playing a lot of good golf.  It's nice to be playing good golf where it's a little bit easier and putts are starting to go in the hole.   
 Q.  You played with an up-and-coming youngster, Jennifer Kupcho.  Thoughts on her and her play?  
STACY LEWIS: I know she wanted to play better today, but I think she's going to be out here for a long time.  I was impressed with the ball striking.  Hits it very high; almost hit a little bit of a fade.   
Once she figures out the nerves and kind of handling pressure a little bit, I think she's going to be in a good spot.   
 Q.  Did you have some fun this week?  
STACY LEWIS: I did.  It was a lot of fun.  More putts have gone in this week than in the years past, and it was nice to give my family something to cheer for.   
 Q.  Coming off 18, say hi to your family as you were walking up.  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah.   
 Q.  What has this week been like for you to experience it with your family?  
STACY LEWIS: It's been awesome.  You know, just coming back here, I feel so comfortable.  Get a lot of family time and don't have to go out to dinner, which is very nice.  You know, playing golf is a bonus, but it's always nice to come back here.   
 Q.  Everyone wants to see the Toledo-born girl do well here.  
STACY LEWIS: Yes.   
 Q.  What's it like to put up a number like that?  
STACY LEWIS: It's awesome.  You look at years past 16-under would probably win a lot of these things.  Just happy to have my best finish here.  We're getting closer.  We're getting closer.  That's what I told Judd walking off the green.   
 Q.  Two majors coming up here.  Pretty good confidence builder for you?  
STACY LEWIS: It is.  Really the last two weeks I feel like I've played really good.  I've been working really hard on a few things.   
It's just nice it see to coming together, especially under the gun.  There was some pressure out there today, especially early.  Was able to get it around pretty good.   
 Q.  What's been the most difficult thing to bring back to your game?  
STACY LEWIS: Since having the baby it's been just getting my body and strength and having the energy to finish four days.  I finally in the last probably month have felt better playing a four-day tournament and all the things that the week involves.   
I'm not completely exhausted today, so that's a good sign.   
 Q.  Earlier this week you talked about how this could be a week you could make a move up the Solheim Cup standings.  I got to think looking at a third place finish, mission accomplished.  
STACY LEWIS: Yes, for sure.  The lead got pretty far away there early.  I just kept telling myself, Third is better than fourth and second is better than third.  Kept trying to stay aggressive and make birdies.   
You know, it's end-the-year stuff, it's Money List; there are a whole lot of things.  I just kept trying to stay aggressive and move up the board.   
 Q.  With your finish this week and with Chesnee being there on the 18th green, would you say this is one of the most memorable weeks here at Highland for you?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah.  Looking back, I mean, I think the first one is always memorable.  I remember being on that first tee like shaking.  I couldn't get the ball on the tee.   
Definitely playing good golf and having her here and with the family, it's been an awesome week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT