HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 2, 2013
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Great round, you got off to a bit of a rough start, tell us what happened on the first.  
STACY LEWIS:   I just kind of hit a few bad shots early and just didn't make any putts, but really, from 3 on in, I played really solid.   You're going to hit some bad shots, it's expected.   The pins were a little tougher today I thought, a little harder to make birdies, but made some putts on the back nine and it was good.  
   
 Q.   And how did you feel up to the break?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it was very frustrating.   We waited all day, the pace of play was not very good, and it's frustrating, probably three fast players are in the back there, and we had to sit there and wait.   It is what it is and luckily we got finished today.  
   
 Q.   Did you play well all around, or talk us through the turning point of how you got it going again.   
STACY LEWIS:   I would say I got up‑and‑down on 7 for birdie, and then made a long putt on 8 and then hit it close on 9.   I think that birdieing those three definitely got me going the right direction.   
   
 Q.   And then the back nine?   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I played solid.   I had some birdie chances I didn't make.   But made some good pars on some tough holes and just played solid.   
   
 Q.   And obviously looking forward to tomorrow, playing again with Na Yeon?   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it will be great.   We are both playing really well and she played well again today.   It's going to be tight tomorrow and we are going to have to make some putts.   But she's great and it will be fun to play with her.   
   
 Q.   Great to be in this position?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it is, that's my goal every week is to give myself a chance to win on Sunday.   Now I've done that and now we can just go out there and have fun tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   And your caddiewinning ‑‑  
STACY LEWIS:   No, he was embarrassed by all the hype about it, so it was fun.   
   
 Q.   Very nice to see him win that prize?   
STACY LEWIS:   It's been great.   He's been my only caddie since I turned pro and he's been great to me.   I'm just glad to see he got honoured for it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT