SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 10, 2012
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Thanks for joining us.   All the buzz lately has been Player of the Year rankings, Rolex rankings, which you said are obviously very important and have been goals.   Talk about the day‑to‑day goals, anything you have throughout the rest of the season.   
STACY LEWIS:   Right.   Since the middle of the year, my goal has been to be the Player of the Year.   It's something an American hasn't done since 1994.   I wanted to end that trend.   That's the big picture goal.   
Day‑to‑day is just give myself chances to win every week.   You still have to do the little things right, give yourself a chance to win on Sunday and see what happens from there.   
THE MODERATOR:   Today was your first look at the course.   How does it look?   
STACY LEWIS:   The course looks good.   The course is always great here.   It's in such great shape every year.   
It's a course you really have to hit it straight on.   Then, of course, the greens are tricky.   You have to make some putts.   They're pretty tricky.   The closer you can hit it, the better.   
I really like playing here.   I think the heat and everything kind of reminds me of home.   
THE MODERATOR:   What has been the biggest factor to you playing well here?   
STACY LEWIS:   I think it's really a ball‑striker's course.   If you look at the people that have won and have played well, they're people that are pretty high up on fairways and greens in regulation.   So I think that's just the key to this golf course.   
I think last year I was hitting it pretty good and I think I've even kind of moved up the stats this year, too.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Stacy.   
   
 Q.   It's your third year coming to this tournament.   Can you talk about your experiences outside the course?  
STACY LEWIS:   Unfortunately, we don't get to do a whole lot extra.   But I like coming here.   It feels very comfortable.   They put us up in a great hotel.   There's a lot of good shopping around our hotel.   
You get to experience the culture I think is one of the coolest parts.   We get to see how different things are across the world.   
Malaysia is one of my favorite countries to come to in Asia.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT