EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 29, 2012
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   4‑under today.   I know not the result you wanted, but pleased with how you were able to battle through and kind of finish at the end? 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I actually played really good.   I had probably four or five putts that I thought I made and just lipped out.   Just couldn't really get anything going, and then finally at the end to make some birdies. 
And then, you know, kind of the way the day was going I felt like I was going to make the putt and I did.   So it's a nice way to finish.   I'll keep knocking on the door here and get it sometime.

Q.   In terms of what happened with the driver, what happened?
STACY LEWIS:   The face just cracked.   It just happens over time.   I just wanted to make sure I could continue using it.   Obviously it wasn't flying quite like it should, but close enough.
As long as I didn't slam it and break it, I could continue using it.

Q.   For you overall, you've finished runner‑up last year, here last year, runner‑up here again.   With the way the season's been going, how confident are you in your game right now?
STACY LEWIS:   It's huge for me, because I didn't play well yesterday, didn't play my best today, and still I was right there.   I was within a couple shots coming down at the end.
It's nice to be comfortable enough to make eagle on the last hole and comfortable with that pressure.   You know, just keep working hard, and hopefully one week it all comes together again.

Q.   You got a firsthand view of Inbee today.   How impressive was her play?
STACY LEWIS:   She played great.   Early on she didn't really make many putts.   Kind of middle of the back nine she started making putts.   She hit some really good putts for par and then birdied the last three.   I think that's what you want. 
All of us starting out, I wanted to see somebody go out there and win it; that's what she did.

Q.   For you, you kind of understand her a little bit because she won her first tournament on the LPGA as a major, and it took her a while to get that next one.   We talked to you earlier this year when you got that next victory and how good it felt. 
STACY LEWIS:   It's such a relief to get the second one.   She's plays in Japan and plays well there, too, so I think it was just a matter of time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT