EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 28, 2012
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   You struggled today but will have the lead.   Just Tell us about your round.
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I mean, I didn't get off to a good start and I was a little frustrated with the front nine.   I was staying pretty patient through 11 or 12 holes, but then kind of struggled in the middle and left a few out there. 
Finished with a birdie.   I didn't hit it that bad, but I just didn't make any putts.   I feel like I'm still in the tournament, and just got to make some putts tomorrow.
MODERATOR:   There are quite a few talented players just a shot or two away from the lead.   What are you looking forward to most tomorrow? 
STACY LEWIS:   It's going to be a shootout tomorrow.   I think you saw some low scores today.   Our group in general, we didn't make too many birdies. 
It's going to take ‑‑ the low score is going to win tomorrow is what's going to happen.
Hopefully that's me.   As bad as I played today, I can play that good tomorrow.   I'm not too worried about it.   Just one of those days.
MODERATOR:   Just comment on the weather and whether it affected you at all out there. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, the weather, I mean, other than a little bit of rain, it wasn't too bad.   It was pretty manageable.   I think we only had a couple holes where it was really actually raining. 
Overall, I think it was a good day.
MODERATOR:   Questions for Stacy. 

Q.   Psychologically how important was that last birdie? 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I knew I needed to make birdie to get in the last group.   That's where I wanted to be, so more than anything I was trying to make that. 
It's also nice just to see a putt go in.   It had been quite a few holes since I seen a putt go in, so I think that'll help a lot. 
I shot 63 the first day, so I know I can play good out here.   I'm not too worried about it. 

Q.   It's been really hot in America, 105, 104.   For tour players, how does this compare for you?   Do you find you would rather play in the rain at a nice 78 or 105?   Does weather affect you as a player?
STACY LEWIS:   I think it affects more ‑‑ I mean, when it's really hot out the ball flies a long ways and there are some adjustments you have to make. 
But everybody is playing in the same weather, so I just think you just got to play with what you're given.

Q.   Right.   Can you take us through the double bogey?   I know you had a chip that missed the green.   What happened there?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I think I was trying to be a little too cute with my third shot and just really hit a bad shot.   The first chip actually had a pretty good lie, but just the grass being wet from the rain obviously affected that shot.   Just didn't quite come out like I expected, and then missed about a six‑footer. 
I make that putt and I think it's a little different scenario.   Unfortunately I didn't. 

Q.   Just a world about the 17 year old Hyo Joo Kim who is just a shot behind.   Obviously you've seen a lot of young players over the years.   Does she stand out in any particular way?
STACY LEWIS:   I honestly have never seen her hit a golf ball, so I can't really tell you too much on that. 
But I think there are so many young players coming up, especially from Korea, that there seems to be one kind of popping every ‑‑ every time we have an event like this where we have exemptions or we open the field up to other tours, I think there is always going to be some young talent.   Who knows what she'll do in the next couple years. 

Q.   Compared to last year, did you notice some major changes already made to the course in preparation for the major?
STACY LEWIS:   I think there are some little changes.   Few new tee boxes.   I did notice some trees are taken out on a few holes that kind of visually looked a little more open. 
Overall, it doesn't really play any different yet.   I think once they redo the greens then it'll be a different story. 
MODERATOR:   Anything else?   All right, Stacy, thanks so much.
STACY LEWIS:   All right, thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT