KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 28, 2012
Kraig Kann
Stacy Lewis
John Veihmeyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KRAIG KANN:   Great to have you all here.   Thank you so much for being a part of the Kraft Nabisco Championship, the first major of the entire year in professional golf.   I'm Kraig Kann, chief of communications at the LPGA.   I want to thank you all for being a part of this week, and we do have a special guest to my left, and I'm not talking about the trophy, although that's pretty special, as well.   Stacy Lewis is here, and this news conference is going to celebrate Stacy Lewis.   We're going to talk about last year's victory, her career to this point, and we're also going to allow for an opportunity to share some pretty big news today that I think says a lot not only about Stacy, corporate America, but also about the LPGA Tour, and we have some other special guests that will join us for that, as well.
That being said, I want to throw one more thing out there.   I'll give a little tee‑up, kind of a precursor to that bit of news.   The fact that you were a finance and accounting major at Arkansas ties very nicely into the bit of news that we're going to share.   Are you ready?   Here we go. 
Let's talk about this trophy.   Now, the first thing you noticed when you sat down, you were glaring at it.   It does have a nice glare to it.   What does it make you think about? 
STACY LEWIS:   It's really one of the first times I've seen it since taking pictures with it a year ago Sunday, so it just brings back a lot of really cool memories and just reminds me of walking up 18 and knowing you're going to win.   I mean, it was an unbelievable week, and it just takes me back to that. 
KRAIG KANN:   By the way, I've got our brand new player guide, the LPGA player guide, which has a lot of Stacy Lewis information in here, so I've got all my good notes.   Not that I've needed too many because you've had a phenomenal year all the way back to winning this major championship.   Let me run through a little bit of 2011 for you on Stacy:   23 events, 22 cuts made, $1.3 million made, fourth on the money list, but the highlight for sure was the leap in Poppies Pond, no doubt about that.   How did it change you and what do you remember about the feelings you had from that week? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I think I took a lot from that week last year.   It gave me so much confidence that I could play against the best players in the world.   You know, just to hang with Yani like I did for two days, I don't think there's many people that can say that they've done that.   I just rode that momentum throughout the year.   I had a ton of top 10s, I had two runner‑ups later in the year, and just kind of rode that momentum and even kept it going into this year, too.
KRAIG KANN:   What do you remember about down the stretch with Yani? 
STACY LEWIS:   I don't remember a lot truthfully.   It all seemed a big blur at the time.   I remembered more when I went back and watched it on TV and kind of went shot by shot.   But I just remember the nerves.   I was so nervous the last four holes, and I didn't hit very many good shots, but I made some key putts, and I actually went back in the practice round on Monday and kind of found certain spots where I was, where I made putts from, so it was pretty cool.
KRAIG KANN:   You said you were nervous.   Was it because of Yani or was it because you hadn't won on the LPGA?   Was it because it was a major?   Or all of that?   How many times did you go back and watch it? 
STACY LEWIS:   I think it was all of that.   It's a major championship.   If you're not nervous, I think you're not human or something.   You've got to be nervous to be on the first tee.   I mean, Yani definitely‑‑ you knew she was going to come out and play‑‑ I knew I had to have my "A"game because I knew she was going to play well.   I don't know, I was really actually pretty relaxed until the last four or five holes, but I was pretty nervous, and I was shaking pretty good, especially on my third shot into 18, and I was just glad it hit the green. 
KRAIG KANN:   You finished second in Player of the Year race last year to Yani Tseng, but you got the best of her at the Kraft Nabisco.   I know she wants to come back and try to win this thing, as well.   You're the one everybody is pointing to and that has to be a little bit different for you.   You've had all the success now and you are somebody that wears a target on your back. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, and I love that.   I want to come into a tournament and people expecting me to win and play well.   I love this golf course.   I think it really sets up well for me, and so I want people to write that and I want people to know that, because I mean, I feel like I can tee it up with her and contend with her. 
KRAIG KANN:   There is a rumor out there, actually I don't know if it's a rumor anymore.   Yani made a point that she had practiced or has been practicing jumping into her swimming pool to get ready for Poppies Pond when that moment happens, which I think is a tremendous quote, number one, and pretty enlightening to all of those in the media.   Instant champion, just add water, is the big marketing situation here.   Specifically that leap, what do you remember? 
STACY LEWIS:   I remember the water was really cold.   I just remember‑‑ I don't know, I had so much adrenaline at the time, I just needed to get it out, so I just jumped really far.   I'm not going to practice the jump.   I think that's kind of‑‑ I just wouldn't do that.   But I think it's just spur of the moment, you've just got to go for it. 
KRAIG KANN:   They've got a jump zone out there now to make sure everybody jumps in the right spot because there was a little injury last year. 
STACY LEWIS:   I was wondering if you were going to bring that up.
KRAIG KANN:   Just did. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, my mom kind of hurt her leg, didn't jump out quite far enough, so they dug it out.   It's quite a bit deeper, especially close to the edge, so hopefully we don't have any more injuries.
KRAIG KANN:   Earlier this week you took part in a little ceremony out there with Amy Alcott.   What exactly were you guys doing? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, we were celebrating the renovation to the pond, and so we poured in the last six gallons of water, so we each had three gallons of water that we poured in, so it's at the perfect level now and it's ready to go for Sunday. 
KRAIG KANN:   It looks spectacular, by the way, it really does.   I know you're thinking ahead to Sunday and perhaps another chance. 

Q.   If you win this event will your mom jump in again with you?
STACY LEWIS:   Yes, I told her that it was just me and her going in, and we're going‑‑ because she has to redeem herself.   So if I win again, it's just me and her. 

Q.   Defending champion, what are the advantages and disadvantages? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, this is definitely the busiest week I've ever had on Tour.   I don't know if that's a disadvantage or advantage.   There's good and bad to that.   But I had a lot of obligations and a lot of things to do.   But it's also great to come back and people telling me congratulations from last year, signing things from last year, and it just brings back such good memories.   I'm so comfortable on this golf course that it feels like I'm at home, really. 

Q.   When you're so nervous, you mentioned the last four holes of the final round, what do you do to compose yourself? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, it's hard.   I mean, the golf course was playing hard enough that luckily you had to focus so much over every shot that if you kind of started thinking about the end or the trophy or your jump or whatever it was, it brought you back in because it would come up and bite you pretty quick.   You really had to stay in the moment.
For me I tend to get pretty fast down the stretch, so my caddie was really good at kind of reeling me back in, making me go slow, slow down, go through your process.   He was definitely helpful with that. 

Q.   The trend more and more is to not go to college at all or to go for one or two years only.   What did you gain from going all four years that you think is valuable, and how did you end up majoring in finance and accounting? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, actually I went to school for five years.   I loved school, and I don't know why anyone wouldn't go.   But I went to school not with the intention of playing professional golf.   I went with the intention of getting a degree to hopefully get a job down the road.   I went to school and just got better with golf, and so I had started in finance and just kind of‑‑ I just stuck with it.   I wanted to get a degree that I could do something with if this whole golf thing didn't work out.
KRAIG KANN:   It's working out, by the way. 
STACY LEWIS:   Okay, thanks.   But it's really helpful to what I'm doing.   I can manage a lot of what I do from day‑to‑day.   But I think college, it's just a time that you can grow up and be‑‑ you can make mistakes and you can be a kid and you can have fun, and it's not in the spotlight.   You don't have cameras on you 24/7.   I think it's just‑‑ you can just be‑‑ it's just a maturity level, I think, you see of players that don't go to school or that do.   It just takes them, I think, a little bit longer to really find their game. 
KRAIG KANN:   Do you feel a lot more relaxed this year?   I'm just watching you sit up here and maybe the difference from last year to this year, maybe it's the win, maybe it's the Solheim Cup, maybe it's the fact that you've done numerous interviews here, but you look completely different up here. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I would definitely say I'm more comfortable.   It's still not my favorite thing to do, I'll tell you that, but I'm definitely more comfortable. 
That's one of the things I talked about, just the maturity level, figuring out who you are and what kind of person you are and your game and all of that, and I think college and just kind of‑‑ I'm growing throughout the last couple years. 

Q.   You mentioned how busy you were this week, obviously the defending champion and everything.   How much has life off the course changed for you since you won over the last year as opposed to maybe the previous year?   It must have been more hectic for you. 
STACY LEWIS:   Oh, for sure.   I'm glad I didn't‑‑ truthfully, was it 2008 I was leading the U.S. Open going into the final round, and I said it last year, but I am so glad I didn't win that golf tournament because I was not ready or prepared for what I went through last year after I won, just all the media obligations, people wanting your time, whether it's to do an interview or meet with somebody or do a clinic or whatever it is.   My time, it's just busier. 
So I'm definitely still learning how to juggle and manage everything, but life has gotten pretty crazy. 

Q.   Can you talk about have you gotten new endorsements because of last year, and can you just talk a little bit about what you have now? 
KRAIG KANN:   You are getting a little bit ahead of us.   Let's hold that question because we're going to make that announcement in just a second. 

Q.   When you talk about the new responsibilities and the attention, does it surprise you really, and can you compare it to what Yani gets on a regular basis? 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I mean, I wasn't really surprised because when you win a golf tournament there's obviously things that go along with it.   I mean, I'm definitely surprised with just my story with my back and everything, how far that has gone and how many people it impacts every‑‑ I get new letters and new emails every day from kids all over the country.   I mean, I couldn't imagine‑‑ I mean, Yani has got to be crazy busy.   I don't even‑‑ she's probably got so many obligations and hers are all over the world. 
I mean, hopefully I would love to have that problem, though. 

Q.   Could you speak to her dominance since last year?   When you watch her play, what about her game has made her so good this last 12 months or so? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I think her ball‑striking over the last year has gotten really good.   She always seems to make putts and do that kind of thing, but she's hitting it a lot straighter and hitting a ton of greens.   So you put fairways and greens and putts, that's the key to winning. 
And also, just her mentally, she's so tough.   She'll have one bad day, and she's coming out firing the next day, completely forgot about the day before.   For example, in Thailand, I think she shot 1‑over the first day and then‑‑ did she win Thailand?   Yeah, shot 1‑over and then still ended up winning the golf tournament. 
I mean, I don't know, that just shows you who Yani is right there. 
KRAIG KANN:   It should also be known, too, in kind of following up the growth part of it and being more comfortable, Stacy is a part of our new player communications committee at the LPGA and has played a big role in providing us with some feedback and being a part of some nice initiatives in our campaign to show people why it's a bit different out here, and to that end, last week, I want to ask you about your little foray into the media world and The Golf Channel and being a part of the telecast for 35 minutes.   For those of you who don't know, Christina Kim was the host and Stacy ran a camera at 15, and Brittany Lincicome was the producer for about 35 minutes.   How was that running the camera during the telecast? 
STACY LEWIS:   It was really hard.   I'm glad I play golf.   I'm glad I don't have to video the shots.   It was tough because the hole that we were hitting into was wedge, so I guess you just don't realize how high the ball goes, and having to follow the ball and zoom out and focus it and do all that at the same time, it was just a lot for me.   But I finally got one good shot at the end, so I was happy.
KRAIG KANN:   Big ratings spike on Golf Channel because you guys were all a part of it. 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, and just to see our personalities and us out there having fun and learning new things, it was a good day for everybody. 

Q.   You're going to host an AJGA event later this year, so can you talk about getting more involved with junior golf and what you're looking forward to about that? 
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I got a call, it was about mid year last year, and they asked if they could put my name on a junior tournament in Arkansas, and I was‑‑ I was really excited about doing it because growing up I didn't really play that many AJGA events, and it was more because I couldn't get into the events, so I'm all about getting more opportunities out there for juniors.   So it's going to be an open event, so it'll be open to everybody.   It'll be a big field.   I don't really know the specifics of it yet because it is during the week of our U.S. Open, so we'll kind of have to work that a little bit.   But I'm really excited to have my name on it. 

Q.   What about all this that still makes you a bit uncomfortable? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I think it's just my personality.   I mean, I'm pretty shy when it really comes down to it.   But I've gotten a lot better, just being more open and just being easier to talk to and more open to doing things like this.   I don't know, it's just kind of a whole learning process, I guess. 

Q.   Alison Walsh has talked about how moving down to South Florida and playing at the Medalist, playing alongside some of the men has helped her.   Has that helped you, been a good environment for you?
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I haven't actually played a whole lot with the guys.   They tend to be out there all day kind of practicing, and I kind of like to get in there and do my thing and get out.   But it is good to have little chipping games with them.   I think any time you can play and practice with the guys, it helps out a lot. 

Q.   The robe, what do you do with a robe?   Do you put it in a special place?   Do you ever put it on?
STACY LEWIS:   No, it's just hanging up in my closet.   I didn't even wash it or anything from last year, so I'm sure it probably smells like lake water.   It's hanging up in my closet, and it's just nice to look at every morning. 

Q.   You just finished your practice round.   You've seen the golf course again.   What is it about this golf course where you've had two top 5 finishes over the last five years, and what do you think of the course as it sets up for tomorrow? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I think this course you really have to just hit it straight and then putt the greens really well.   I think that's the main thing.   I don't know, the golf course just really fits my eye.   A lot of the tee shots really fit my eye.   I just feel really comfortable there. 
And the course is in great shape.   The rough is a little down than it has been in years past, but I don't think they're going to cut it throughout the week, so it's just going to get longer.   The greens are perfect.   They're getting firmer and faster every day, and so people were kind of saying scores are going to be lower, but I don't really think they are. 
KRAIG KANN:   One last thing, speaking of media opportunities, Stacy is a part of tonight's special on The Golf Channel at 10:00 eastern time, the first time that the LPGA is being focused like that during the week of a major, a one‑hour show, and thanks for being a part of that.   Tune in tonight, you'll see a preview of all the majors, including a lot about the Kraft Nabisco Championship and Stacy Lewis, a part of that.
I mentioned that this was a two‑part news conference.   We're going to get into this other news, we're going to appease you and get this information to you and allow for your questions.   Big, big opportunity for you.   I'm going to let you break the news.   This is breaking news, Stacy Lewis.   Take it away. 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I am excited to announce that I have a new sponsorship, a new partnership with KPMG.   Many of you may have seen that it's on Phil Mickelson's hat, so I am joining their team, and they're all back there in the back to support me today.   I'm so excited about it, and just really looking forward to working with them over the next few years. 
KRAIG KANN:   A global audit tax and advisory firm, and yes, there are some special guests here.   Let me give you a few of the nuts and bolts.   The relationship officially begins this week.   You are part of the KPMG sports relationship platform which began with Phil Mickelson, as you mentioned, back in 2008.   That means you're going to be even more busy not only on the course representing but off the course representing, right? 
STACY LEWIS:   Right.   That's a good problem to have, though. 
KRAIG KANN:   That's a very good problem to have.   Let me bring up some of those other special guests I talked about.   John Veihmeyer, chairman and CEO of KPMG, and Mike Whan, the LPGA commissioner, is also up to lend some insight into this.   Thank you both, guys. 
John, let's start with you.   This is clearly about aligning your company with winners and leaders and supporting some women's initiatives.   I'm going to let you talk about this relationship and how it all got started. 
JOHN VEIHMEYER:   Well, first of all, I'm incredibly proud to welcome Stacy into that family.   Joining Phil Mickelson as part of our KPMG family is a tremendous honor for me to be here today and officially welcome you into that family. 
You know, women in our firm, at KPMG, are certainly continuing to emerge in terms of leadership roles and the critical dimension that they bring to our firm, the values, perspectives within KPMG and certainly the clients that we serve in the marketplace.   Women are continuing to emerge as true leaders in every organization in America. 
So we've had a great relationship with Phil Mickelson since 2008, and I felt something was missing in our golf sponsorship, and what was missing was a relationship with the LPGA to balance that relationship with Phil out and send a very direct message to our women and the women at the clients that we serve in the marketplace.   So this is really exciting for us. 
We announced it internally in KPMG this morning.   I mentioned to Stacy I cleared my email when I took off from the East Coast this morning.   I landed and I had 124 unread emails, and I think 13 of them were from women in our firm who were ecstatic about the fact that KPMG had forged a relationship not only with the LPGA but with Stacy, as well.
KRAIG KANN:   I think it's terrific.   The obvious question is why Stacy Lewis, what does she bring, and is it the double major at Arkansas?   Is it the accounting and finance? 
JOHN VEIHMEYER:   Well, I went to Notre Dame, so it wasn't Arkansas, but the double major was certainly a nice added attraction after the fact.   I told Stacy she's got a long way to go in this game, but when she's done, there will be a home for her at KPMG from an accounting standpoint, as well.
But in all seriousness, I think the relationship we've had with Phil I think is in large measure what we're hoping and very confident we are forging here with Stacy, which is not just having one of the greatest golfers in the game wear our logo on their hat or shirt in Stacy's case, but to really have someone that's going to represent KPMG in the marketplace in the way that's really important for us. 
I think you've seen some of why we were drawn to Stacy in the interview today.   I think it's her warmth, it's how genuine she is, it's just the way she interacts, I think, with everybody she comes in contact with.   Stacy and I had a chance to have dinner probably three or four weeks ago now, and I was pretty convinced about three and a half minutes into that dinner that Stacy is going to do a phenomenal job with our women at KPMG.   We are going to create a lot of opportunities for Stacy to spend some time with and reinforce a number of things we're doing from a diversity standpoint and with our clients in the marketplace doing some outings and getting Stacy one‑on‑one with a number of our up‑and‑coming women executives is really what we were looking for.   And again, I think you've seen with the way she handles herself up here why she is going to be a great fit in our family. 
KRAIG KANN:   Mike, I don't think it takes a whole lot for you to be able to talk about why Stacy Lewis and what she adds, and I think also you could add a little bit more as to what this partnership that they've forged here says about the LPGA and momentum and our spot with corporate America right now. 
MIKE WHAN:   Well, first on behalf of all of the players at the LPGA and over 1,500 teaching club professionals in our teaching club professional division and our sponsors worldwide, welcome to the family.   We're really excited to have you.   I told you this the first time I met you, but you could not have done any better. 
I think you know how we feel about Stacy.   We're lucky to have players of that quality, not just playing quality because there's a lot of people that can perform, but the qualities that you've already identified that she brings outside the ropes and does it so willingly.   Goodness knows we ask a lot of her, especially this week, even when she said this was her most busy week.   I was thinking, more busy than Arkansas, because I don't think she sat down for a week.   It was sort of the Stacy Lewis Invitational when we played in Arkansas last year. 
But we're proud to have companies like yourself be part of the LPGA.   Please understand that your relationship with Stacy has excited us for two reasons:   One is we know that that will grow, and selfishly, we want to be able to help you, as well.   So just because you have that relationship, know that the rest of the family is here to help you in any way we can, and the only thing that's important to us is when you have the Phil versus Stacy competition, Stacy wins by about three or four strokes, and anything else that happens is great. 
KRAIG KANN:   And it's in primetime, televised. 
Stacy, to the points that Mike just made, as well, and the momentum on the Tour, from your perspective as a player, having somebody from KPMG come to you, what does that say to you about where the Tour is right now and stars named Stacy Lewis and others that are getting these types of opportunities? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I think it just shows where we're going.   You know, we've had a couple of years where we were struggling, and we're getting great companies like KPMG and other sponsors, too, to kind of step up and see the value that our Tour provides, not only to put a logo out there or whatever it is, but to see the relationships and how we interact in pro‑ams and entertain people.   Like all the logos say, see why it's different out here.   That's how our Tour is different.   That's how we entertain, and I think we put on a pretty good show. 

Q.   Do you feel like you and Phil Mickelson are on even par now?   Have you talked to Phil about the sponsorship and do you know Phil very well? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I guess it was about three weeks ago, he was hosting an event for KPMG, so I got to go along, and they threw a lot at me that day, but I got to hang out with Phil and got to talk to him quite a bit.   He was great.   He was easy to talk to.   He showed me the ropes, and he's one of the best at putting on events, corporate events and things like that.   I'm just trying to learn from him, and he was great about it. 

Q.   What does he offer to the public as a sponsor, and what do you think you will offer the same or different? 
STACY LEWIS:   I mean, John might be better at answering this than me, but I mean, Phil just entertains the clients.   I mean, he's talking to them all the way down the fairway and kind of ribbing them a little bit.   I don't know, he just gets it.   He knows how to entertain.   John, from your side maybe you could add more. 
JOHN VEIHMEYER:   You know, I think Phil is very special and very unique in a lot of ways, and he's been phenomenal for us, largely from the standpoint that I talked about earlier in terms of helping us build and deepen relationships that we have in the marketplace.   So that's certainly, I think, a big part of what we hope to gain with Stacy and will gain with Stacy, as well, in terms of creating opportunities for us to bring people together who might otherwise not have a reason to get together, have a lot of fun while they're doing it, get to meet one of the best golfers on the women's Tour in the process. 
But there is one added dimension to your point of is there anything differentiating, and I would say there definitely is, because at a time when we are continuing to invest in our women as a firm and demonstrate to our women that there is no limit to where they can go within KPMG, it sends a very strong and a very powerful message, I think, to our 23,000 people in KPMG in the U.S. to forge a relationship like this with Stacy.   So that speaks very differently, I think, to our KPMG women than the relationship we have with Phil, which is great for all our people, but certainly focused extensively in terms of the marketplace more broadly. 
So Stacy will help us in both dimensions, both externally in the marketplace as well as internally with our continuing large emerging pool of women who are really becoming the leaders in KPMG.
And I think back to the comments that were made earlier.   We see both Stacy and the LPGA on the same upward trajectory in terms of tremendous momentum, and we're just excited to be affiliated with both Stacy and the LPGA.   It's a great fit for us. 

Q.   How many women are employed with you nationally? 
JOHN VEIHMEYER:   As I said, we have about 23,000 people at KPMG in the U.S.; about 50 percent of them are women.   And globally we have about 140,000 people, and that same percentage, while it varies in different countries, as you look as it wholistically, the same overall percentage fits pretty well.   We have got close to 50 percent of our professionals that are women. 

Q.   I know following Phil one time, and I think it might have been in The Skins when Annika was there, he was talking stocks with either her or another player during an event.   I'm just curious, when you've chatted with Phil, did investments come up and that kind of thing? 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, as I found out, Phil seems to have a lot of ideas about everything.   I think the KPMG folks will tell you that, too.   I don't know, he's just an interesting guy.   He seems to always be thinking about something or having an idea about‑‑ I know when I was there he was giving them ideas about what they should do with me and what kind of events they should do.   He's always thinking. 
MIKE WHAN:   Well, just for your people and the people that you brought here today, maybe for the media, as well, when we say welcome to the family, I hope you'll start to see and feel that it's just that.   I can tell you in the last two days that I've been here, I've spent time with executives from Safeway, Wal‑Mart, Hana Bank, Kraft, I can literally ‑‑ from Kia and R.R. Donnelley.   So when you think about, okay, they played the R.R. Donnelley Founders Cup two weeks ago so that just must be their week, it really isn't like that out here, and that's one of the reasons why we say see why it's different out here.   You'd be amazed how many of our corporate family sponsors are either playing in this pro‑am or doing something around this weekend, and they will be in a couple of weeks when we go to Lotte.   We're excited about the momentum.   We appreciate you referencing it.   We've added probably seven new title sponsors in the last 12 months, and it's an exciting time.
It's all about, though, at the end of the day, the LPGA is a not‑for‑profit organization.   It's really all about providing opportunity for women around the world, so to hear you talking about the opportunities you're creating for women in business, really the same thing is true for the LPGA. 
We're hoping that young 12‑year‑olds no matter where they're growing up around the world can have the dream that Stacy had to walk across that bridge.   I just watched it on the video as you were talking Stacy.   They were showing you walk across.   I literally got goosebumps watching the film standing there and thinking, I don't know if she dreamed this big four or five years ago, but she's blowing all those dreams out of the water.   So we appreciate you allowing us to take those dreams to another level. 
We have fans from around the world, sponsors from around the world, and now most importantly we have players as well that come from around the world.   It's really an exciting time for women's golf, and it's an exciting time when companies like you not only recognize that but help us create more of it. 
JOHN VEIHMEYER:   Mike, just want to publicly thank you and your team for what you've done for us as we've gone forward and tried to forge this relationship because it does take a village to make all this work, and I just want to thank you again publicly, what I've said privately, which is your team couldn't have been more fabulous working with us to make sure we had a great launch here this week with Stacy. 
And Stacy, I'll end where I started, which is this is tremendously exciting for us.   It's going to energize the women in our firm in a way‑‑ and again, it's not just the fact that we're affiliating with one of the greatest women golfers in the game and the LPGA Tour, but you've got a phenomenal story, as well.   We talk to our women all the time about taking their performance to the next level and being confident that you can achieve anything you want to achieve, and I think overcoming your back problems and your personal story, it's just a great message, I think, to all of our women.   This is not just some corporate sponsorship, this is a very personal relationship as we do become part of one family.   We couldn't be more excited, and it was great to meet your parents here today, as well. 
It's not surprising that you're the type of person you are after I got a chance to meet with your folks. 
Thank you, Kraig, for giving us some time to kick this thing off, and Stacy, we look forward to a very long and very successful relationship together. 
KRAIG KANN:   Stacy is an avid runner, I know you run half marathons and whatnot.   You're going to have to run here in just a second, but I'll let you have one final thought about maybe your relationship and running after another robe. 
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I'll just say I've gotten to know the folks at KPMG over the last couple months, and it's been unbelievable.   They're such great people, and everything they do is top‑notch, and I'm really looking forward to working with you guys over the next couple years.   It's great for our Tour to have a company like KPMG come out and not only sponsor me but to come out to an event, and thank you to everybody for coming here today for the big launch, and I'm looking forward to it and looking forward to the week. 
KRAIG KANN:   Thanks to you all for being up here.   Stacy, congratulations, and best of luck this week in your quest to successfully defend this trophy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT