KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 1, 2012
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Stacy Lewis is the defending champion here at the Kraft Nabisco Championship.   And boy, did you ever play like it today.   Fantastic round, and I think you're going to have to be patient for a little while.   Talk us through some of the highlights as far as what you saw out there and your mindset going in.  
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I knew I was pretty far back and I needed some help.   Obviously the weather was going to help me, but I needed to go out early and make some birdies and made a couple of good birdies on 2 and 3 and made the turn and was kind of frustrated that I didn't make any more birdies and just kind of caught fire there on the Back 9.  
THE MODERATOR:   Did you feel while you were out there, I've got a chance?   Is that why you were feeling that pressure because you felt like this thing wasn't over due to winds or whatever?   
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I really wasn't looking at scores all day, and I think I got up to 6 at one point, 6‑under and kind of thought if I could get to 7 or 8, I would be in there towards the end just watching what scores were doing.   So just gutted it out at the end, made a great birdie on 17 and a good par on 18.  
THE MODERATOR:   One last question for me before we take questions from the audience.   When you started this week, there was the press conference here, there was a lot of hype and all the buildup.   How much more relaxed do you feel now or as the week progressed than you might have when you started on Thursday?   
STACY LEWIS:   I've been pretty relaxed.   It definitely got less busy as the week went on.   I was able to kind of go back to the condo and just relax after the rounds and caught up on some sleep, so I feel really good, and it's just nice to finish off the week well.  
THE MODERATOR:   Wish you had another 18.   Questions.  
   
 Q.   Stacy, I noticed on your Twitter account last night you said you were ready to go low today.   Was that because you just felt like the game was there and it hadn't clicked in and it was ready to go?  
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I felt like all year I've kind of played ‑‑ just played okay where I've had some good rounds going and something's happened at the end, or something like that, and so I just felt like I was ready for a really low round, and you know, I didn't start out hitting the ball that well and didn't really feel that good about my game on Thursday, but then things were kind of slowly getting better, and I'm just glad this came today.  
   
 Q.   That front nine on Thursday, four straight bogeys, you say you weren't hitting the ball well.   Was it the entire game or was it your putting wasn't there?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   What changed between the ninth hole and the tenth hole?  
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I think the biggest change was after my first round, I changed putters, actually.   I wasn't happy with the way the ball was rolling.   I think the putter had too much loft on it and it was bouncing a lot, so I called TaylorMade, and they drove over four putters for me, and at 6:30 on Friday morning, I was testing putters, and I picked one out and that's the one I played with the rest of the week.  
THE MODERATOR:   Wow.   That's interesting.  
STACY LEWIS:   Good story, huh?   
   
 Q.   Mid tournament.   Stacy, in your heart do you think you still have a chance to win it?   The leader is at 10‑under now.   How hard is the Back 9 playing and how hard will it be for her to hold onto that score?  
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I think the golf course is playing tough, especially with the wind, and more than anything, you've got a little bit of inexperience coming down the stretch the last four holes, and so I think that more than anything is going to keep me in it.   
I mean I don't know.   I'm just hoping for a playoff right now.  
   
 Q.   And do you think by posting that 7‑under that was good enough to put a little pressure maybe on the girls ahead of you as they looked?  
STACY LEWIS:   Well, I think just for them to see that and to know they've got a number to shoot for now and to put that in the back of their mind and hopefully maybe that'll put a bit more pressure on them.  
   
 Q.   And can you just take me through the 17th and 18th, the birdie hole and what shots you hit on those holes?  
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, 17, I think the number is 157 today and I hit 6‑iron to about six feet and made the putt.   18 I actually made a really good par.   The wind died right as I hit my wedge, and it went over the green and made about a five ‑‑ a little slider 5‑footer for par.   
   
 Q.   What made you on Friday morning choose one of those four putters specifically?  
STACY LEWIS:   Well, the one I picked was most similar to kind of what I've putted with growing up, just more of an answer style putter.   And more than anything the putts were just rolling really well, and so I felt like I could line it up good and the putts would come off the face really well.  
   
 Q.   How many will go with you to the next tournament?  
STACY LEWIS:   Hopefully just one, but we got two weeks to figure that out.  
THE MODERATOR:   Can you talk about the pressure that you think might have been in the mind of Yani Tseng when she started today based on what you went through last year and what you were telling me as we walked over here?   
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I think Yani's got a ton of pressure on her.   I think the media has ‑‑ I don't know, from all the writings and everything, they basically gave Yani the tournament, and they did that last year, too, and I think that's a lot of pressure for somebody ‑‑ because she's still gotta go out there and play and play a hard golf course, and so I mean I can't say that I'm not surprised.   
I mean I don't know.   I couldn't imagine having that pressure.   
   
 Q.   So what are you going to do for the next 90 minutes?  
STACY LEWIS:   Go get something to eat and kind of watch scores and see what happens, if I need to go hit some balls.   But I'll definitely be on property here.   
   
 Q.   Sjodin's been a magician with her irons play, hitting greens in regulation.   Is that the single most important thing and what can you tell everybody about her game?  
STACY LEWIS:   I actually played with her in the final round of Phoenix a couple weeks ago.   She finished Top 10 there, and I hadn't played with her in a while, and she's hitting it a lot straighter than I've ever seen her hit it.   She's always hit it far, and it's been kind of questionable whether it would be in the fairway.   And that was one thing I noticed was that she was hitting it really straight and she was making a lot of putts.  
And I think the key to this golf course right now with the rough being down is getting them on the greens and giving yourself some birdie looks.  
THE MODERATOR:   Anything else?   Lasting thought from you on your defending champion of the week here.  
STACY LEWIS:   It's been an amazing week and I'd love to come back as a defending champion.  
THE MODERATOR:   Stacy Lewis.   Thanks everybody.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT