CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2011
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Stacy Lewis into the interview room. Congratulations on your round of 67 today. Finished at 12-under, now kind of wait-and-see mode to see what the rest of the field does? 
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was playing so hard out there right now. It started raining pretty good when I was on 16, so I'm just glad to be done. I think, I mean, I think it should be pretty good, but you never know what could happen. Hopefully it holds up for the next hour or so.
 THE MODERATOR: You got off to a hot start. Birdies on three of the first four holes. Did you feel you had to take advantage of the conditions before we got the rain and really bad wind? 
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was still windy even when we teed off. So I knew the day was going to be hard and you just had to kind of get through it and grind over every putt and every shot. I mean, to get away with -- I guess, bogey-free today, if you had told me that at the beginning of the day, I would have taken it. 
 THE MODERATOR: The finishing stretch can be tough, especially when the conditions. How are the rest of the group or at least how was 16, 17, 18 for you? 
 STACY LEWIS: They're probably playing the three hardest holes on the golf course. They move the tee up on 16, so it's a little bit easier. You have a shorter club, but a huge crosswind, and 17 is playing long and another crosswind, and 18 is playing dead into the wind. So it's not easy. I mean, I'd take par on every hole and run.

 Q. This year you won your first tournament in a major title, you've been in contention quite a few times. Overall, how has this year been for you? 
 STACY LEWIS: The year has been awesome. After winning, I didn't want to have a letdown. I didn't want to be the person that won the first major and then played horrible the rest of the year. So I continued to work hard and get myself back in the spot to have a chance to win. 
 I thought I was kind of too far out of it today, but the weather helped me out.

 Q. There's always the possibility of the playoff at the end of this. What do you do between now and the rest of the tournament? Do you practice in the rain? 
 STACY LEWIS: I'm probably going to go inside and dry off and warm-up a little bit. I'll probably watch a little bit, but they've got probably at least an hour until they're done. So just relax a little. If I need to, I'll definitely go hit a few if we have a playoff, for sure.

 Q. That was a great up-and-down on 17. Can you explain what happened on the approach, and whether making a par there was a must in your mind? 
 STACY LEWIS: It was a hard shot in the fairway. I was caught on the downslope, so I was trying to keep the shot low out of the wind and just hit it fat. But I had a little 30-yard pitch shot and hit a great shot. 
 I don't know. Every shot was so hard today, you just kept grinding over every one of them. You kind of forget what they're for, whether it's for birdie or whether it's for par. You've just got to do your best. I was just trying to post a number and give them something to look at and see what happens.

 Q. Your round of 67 might be the best today. How did you get to play so well with the wind and now the rain? 
 STACY LEWIS: Well, I got off to a good start, and that was key. Then actually I had two hole outs, so you kind of have to have some -- for a round like that, you have to have good things go your way. 
 I chipped in off 10 for birdie and then holed out from about 60 yards on 13 -- 12, on 12, for birdie. So you have to get a little lucky and get things to go your way. But I made some great pars on those last six holes, so I'm not complaining.

 Q. Stacy, I'm sure you're pretty happy to see 7:50 a.m. when you were getting ready last night. How close was today's round compared to what you were imagining last night? 
 STACY LEWIS: Truthfully, I thought I was kind of out of it. So I was just coming out. I thought if I can get to double digits under par and finish Top 10, it would be a pretty good week. 
 I got to 10-under on the turn, and it got harder. I was just trying to post a number and just see what happens. I really didn't picture this round coming. I kind of struggled with my swing earlier until the week and the last couple of days it kind of came together, I guess.

 Q. What are the worst conditions you've ever played in? 
 STACY LEWIS: Probably the British Open last year. You get rain and wind. It's similar to what it's doing right now. Any time you've got rain and wind where an umbrella really doesn't do you any good, that is the hardest time to play, I think.

 Q. But you've played in tougher conditions, so it was an obvious challenge today. Nevertheless, it's not something unique that you you've never seen before. 
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, last year at the British Open I played 16 holes in rain like this, so it kind of put it in perspective. But me and my caddie were grinding over every shot. Just get the ball in the hole, get it in the hole and get out of here much.

 Q. I was seeing everybody else out there really bundled up, and there you were walking down the 17th fairway exactly like you are right now. You might be small, but you're pretty tough. Is everybody from Texas like that? 
 STACY LEWIS: I don't know. I think it's just me. People think I'm crazy. But I was okay. 16 I got a little cold. I don't like putting on a jacket when I've been hitting it all day. So just trying to keep the good things going and not change what I was doing.

 Q. You must have met, I would imagine, most of your goals for this season already. Did you make new goals or career goals and would you share them with us? 
 STACY LEWIS: My goal kind of for the rest of the year is I actually went into the Top 10 of the world rankings last week. So my goal is to stay there and finish Top 5 on the money list. So I tried not to get too far ahead. I'd make little goals for every tournament, every round. I don't know, this year's been awesome, and I'm just riding the momentum from it.

 Q. Your story has been pretty well-documented in the States, but for Canadian golf fans they may not be as familiar with it. Was there ever a time in your life that you didn't think physically you could be on Tour? 
 STACY LEWIS: I play golf because I love to play. Got to school, got to college and played better. My coach is like you should give it a try, try to play as a professional. 
 So every day that I'm out here playing, it's a blessing to me because there was a time when I was laying in a hospital bed and I couldn't sit up by myself. Whether you're playing in the rain or whatever it is, I'm thankful for every day that I get out here.

 Q. Those tough times, do you put them behind you or do you constantly draw strength from what you went through?
 STACY LEWIS: It's good reminder for me. I get letters from kids and parents all the time. They seem to come at the times when I'm frustrated or need a little reminder of, hey, this is where you've come from. And so I'm constantly reminded of it, but that's a good thing, and it helps keep whether winning or losing, it keeps everything in perspective.

 Q. How does your back affect you today playing golf day-to-day?
 STACY LEWIS: Day-to-day now it's fine. I might be sore occasionally at night, but it's never anything -- nothing major, nothing a little ice or some Advil can't fix. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT