SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 20, 2011
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How about the first beginning, and what it was like getting off to that hot of a start? 
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah. I mean I didn't hit great shots or anything. I think the closest one was about 18 on 3. Made two probably 25-footers and a 30-footer, and I don't know. They were just going in. Then the golf course kind of got me a little bit and I made some mistakes in the middle, but finished it off good. 

 Q. To come out, and we all know how tough it was yesterday afternoon, to come out this morning and be able to shoot a good round knowing that conditions probably will be tough this afternoon, how good does that feel?
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah. I think -- going to bed I knew I needed to come out and play a good round and shoot something under par. 
 I mean the conditions were hard yesterday afternoon, but there are still going to be some good rounds under par, and I just wanted to put myself in a good spot for tomorrow. And I was trying to get up to six, but I think it should be close enough.

 Q. How much more difficult is it to play in the afternoon than in the morning?
 STACY LEWIS: Well, you could see it just as our round went on. After we made the turn, the greens got a lot firmer. Balls were rolling out and flying further. 
 So the hardest part is I mean once you hit the green, it's just not stopping. It's going over into the rough and you've got awkward shots, and if you shortside yourself, you're making bogey.

 Q. When you were playing yesterday with the mic on, was that distracting?
 STACY LEWIS: No, not really. I played with it a little bit in the Pro-Am just to kind of get a feel for it. And we've kind of done it -- a few other people have done it, so I asked them, and they were like you don't even realize you have it on. 
 So it was kind of actually good for me because when I hit some bad shots, I didn't react probably the way I normally do. So I was able to kind of keep calm and it helped me keep my round together almost.

 Q. How did that come about? Did they just approach you to do that?
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah. They'd asked me last year to do it, and I was just kind of hesitant, and I think it's a cool idea for the fans to really get to see what the caddy and I talk about and what I talk about with the other players going down the fairway, and it's just fun for them to get inside the ropes a little bit. 

 Q. Stacy, after you got the big win this year, did it change what you expect out of yourself?
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah. It did, I mean I knew I could win and I knew -- I knew I could do it, but to do it against the best player in the world and the way I did it I was kind of surprised, and I don't know, I've just been riding that high. I know I'm playing well, and I know I am. And it's just the confidence level is just a lot higher. 

 Q. Does it make you -- does it change your expectations or do you feel like you should be winning a lot?
 STACY LEWIS: I don't let that thought -- I try not to let that thought come in my head because if you do, I think you try to force things and try to make things happen instead of just letting it happen. And I mean I've just been trying to relax and enjoy it and enjoy people recognizing me and cheering for me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT