EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 24, 2011
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Stacy Lewis into the interview room. I know not quite the finish you were hoping for, but just take us through the day a little bit and what happened out there. 
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I didn't get off to the start I wanted to. Wanted to get a little quicker start. But the hole locations were tougher today and there just weren't quite a many he could get close to. 
 Made I made some really good pars in the middle of the round and just gave myself an opportunity coming down the stretch.
 MODERATOR: I was going to say, got within a shot of the lead. Take us through the final few holes and what your thoughts were. 
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I mean, 15, you know you need to make par there on the par-5, I hadn't dine it all week. It kind of owed me one. Made a really good putt there. 
 Then 16 just hit a bad wedge shot. That's the one shot I wish I could go back and hit again. Just left myself in a really bad spot. You would have to have a great two-putt to two-putt from with I was.
 When I missed that putt, I looked up saw she had fallen back to 15-under, so I was kind of disappointed with that. 
 But I committed to all my shots and hit 'em how I wanted to. I mean, I can't be too upset.
 MODERATOR: A 2-under round, you still have to be pleased with another strong finish.
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I was really happy with the way I handled things, just the pressure of being in the last couple groups the last two days. It's just getting more comfortable there, and it's a good time for me.
 MODERATOR: Next tournament, heading into another major, the Women's British Open. Do you feel good about your game going into that tournament? 
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I do. I struggled here last year here on the greens, so that's what I'm most excited with, is how my putter feels. You got to putt it well at any major championship, so I'm looking forward to it. 
 MODERATOR: Questions for Stacy.

 Q. Do you know the Carnoustie course?
 STACY LEWIS: I have not played there at all. I've heard about it. Carnasty, right? (Laughter.)

 Q. It's quite different. You know the links?
 STACY LEWIS: I do. I enjoy links-style golf. You have to be creative and hit different types of shots.
 I think the weather actually looks pretty good, so hopefully won't get too much rain. 
 But it will windy and got to play some low shots. I grew up in Texas, so should be pretty good. 

 Q. Do feel like you were in it right to the end?
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I did. It was hard to tell early on in the round how everybody was doing because there were no scoreboards out there. The crowds you just can't really tell here for some reason for me. 
 But I knew I was in it when I made the putt on 15. Just kind of disappointed with 16. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT