EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 23, 2011
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Stacy Lewis into the interview room. Congratulations on your round again today. Right up near the top of leaderboard heading into tomorrow's final round. Just give me your thoughts on how you played today and your thoughts going into tomorrow.  
 STACY LEWIS: I'm a little bit frustrated with the way I played today. The day for me was kind of frustrating. I hit a ton of good golf shots and just had, I mean, probably four or five putts lip out.  
 So a little frustrating, but I'm really happy with the way I'm playing.   
 MODERATOR: Going into a final round a couple shots off the lead, coming from behind, is that sometimes almost easier than maybe having a lead going into a final round?  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I think so, especially on this golf course. I think you can get out early and post a number for people to kind of catch you. I think that's one of the easiest ways to win, especially on a course like this where you've got to make a lot of birdies.  
 I mean, I'm kind of glad I'm not in that first group and I'm going to be able to get out a couple groups ahead ahead and make som birdies.  
 MODERATOR: When you look at the leaderboard and there are so many players stacked up pretty close to each another and knowing how this course is playing, that you can go low, do you expect some low numbers to be shot tomorrow and it's going to be kind of a race to the finish?   
 STACY LEWIS: Oh, yeah, I mean, just by the way things have been all week. We've been talking as players about how low scores have been this year.   
 The course is so soft and so scorable you know somebody's going to shoot 5- or 6-under. You just hope that it's you.  
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Can you compare this golf course with the ones you play usually in the major and other tournaments?  
 STACY LEWIS: I mean, this course is a little bit shorter and you don't have a lot of variety in your approach shots. You have a lot of wedges into holes here.   
 For major championship courses you usually have hybrids and 4- and 5-irons, and probably only one or two holes where you have a wedge in your hand.   
 So it needs to be longer and a little bit more variety I think to be a major golf course.   
  
  Q. It was a kind of match play you played with Ai. Did you help yourself together?   
 STACY LEWIS: Oh, yeah, it's great playing with Ai. I mean, we play about the same speed. When she makes birdies, it's nice when the person you're playing is is playing well.   
 We were just kind of feeding off each other out there. We both played really well together.  
  
  Q. You were really aggressive together?  
 STACY LEWIS: Aggressive? Yeah, I think on this golf course you have to be. You have to make birdies and go for some flags and try to make some shots that you probably normally wouldn't.   
  
  Q. Seems like you've been having some trouble on the back nine.   
 STACY LEWIS: Compared to the front.   
  
  Q. Yeah, of course. What's the strategy for tomorrow, because of course pin locations will be tougher. It strikes to me that you have to be really low in the front nine and play conservative on the back nine. What's the strategy for tomorrow?  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I think the key is to get out to a good start. I've done that the last couple days. You got to make a couple birdies in the first five holes.   
 For me, I just need to play the last four holes better. Still haven't birdied 18 and made at least one bogey coming in each day.   
 So I need to finish a little stronger, and I think I'll be right where I need to be.   
 MODERATOR: Anymore questions?   
  
  Q. What are the key holes for the last round?   
 STACY LEWIS: I would say the last four. You can birdie 'em, but you've got to hit good shots to make birdies. You can make bogeys pretty quick. So I think the key holes are the last four.   
 MODERATOR: Okay.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT