EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 22, 2011
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Stacy Lewis into the interview room. Congratulations on your 5-under round today. Tough finish to yesterday as rounds for you but came back right out today and made a lot of birdies. Take me through the round.   
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I knew after yesterday that I wanted to come out and finish -- or just play better and finish better. I could have used the end of the round yesterday just to kind of -- I mean, started today's round with the same attitude, kind of mad and upset, and I didn't let myself do that. I was pretty happy with that.  
 I just started making birdies and putts. Had to hang on at the end, but it was a good day.  
 MODERATOR: The course conditions yesterday with a lot of rain, everybody was saying they were pretty good scoring conditions because couldn't get into too much trouble. How was it out there today?   
 STACY LEWIS: It was still pretty wet. Wasn't nearly as bad as it was yesterday afternoon, but I think the problem is when you hit it off the lines, especially around the greens you've got all the run off, so you've got long rough that's basically mud now. If you hit a bad shot, I think you're still penalized.  
 MODERATOR: You were telling me about 13 where you had a ball that plugged. Was it being able to have those things where you were able to find your ball that kind of got some breaks today?   
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I got a huge break on 13. I pulled it left. It was a side slope going away from me and plugged in the rough. I was pretty lucky there. I was taking my bogey and running. We were on that hole for a long time, yeah.   
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. You said you were mad and upset at the end of last night's round. How did you cast off that feeling?   
 STACY LEWIS: Well, I kind of thought back about it, and it was one chip and a missed short putt that really threw the whole round off. I was really close to being where I needed to be.  
 I just tried to forget about those. I think I made six birdies yesterday. Just tried to think about those and take that into today.  
  
  Q. Maybe remember the chip on 14 that went into the hole.   
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What's the most penal thing about this golf course?  
 STACY LEWIS: I think at times it can be the rough. Just depends where you are. I mean, I don't know, it's so hit and -- the rough is kind of hit and miss. I missed it left on 9 and it went into a pile of clovers and nothing.   
 You can hit it in the rough and have a perfect lie. You just really have to get good breaks around here more than anything.  
  
  Q. A lot of players talk about the size of the greens and that they break straight towards the lake. Is that true, or is it still a tricky read?   
 STACY LEWIS: I don't know. I don't really think about where the lake is when I'm reading the greens. They're definitely tricky because they're small. There are some longer holes where you have 4- and 5-irons into the holes, I mean, they're small for that. They're soft enough I don't think that's really a factor.   
 There is so much slope around the cups. Like 17 today I think is really steep. You have to hit in the right spot. If you don't, take your two-putt and move on.   
  
  Q. Looking back at this year, overall when you look at it, is there one thing that you can put your finger on as to your improvement? You obviously came out of college with great credentials. Curtis Cup record is sensational. Is there one thing you can hang your hat on that has made the biggest difference? Is it mental? Is it physical? Both?  
 STACY LEWIS: I think putting has kind of been the main thing. When you make putts it makes everything easier. I always hit a lot greens and fairways. That's never really been an issue. I'm just finally making putts. I think these last two days I've had 26, 27 every day, so...   
 But I'm been working on aim point and reading greens better and trusting my reads. I wrote on my glove today, I just wrote "confident" and just to trust what I'm doing, because what I'm doing is working. I just need to trust it.  
  
  Q. Can you sum up the art of reading greens to us in a couple of sentences?  
 STACY LEWIS: Oh, boy the aim point, mainly you're looking for how the water is running off the greens. It was actually helpful yesterday when it rained so bad. You could see all the low spots on the greens and where all the water was going to run to.   
 You're finding the straight putt around every hole location, and then however far you get, the further you get from the straight putt, the more the putt is going to break is the basics.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding everything breaking towards the lake.)  
 STACY LEWIS: See, that's not always true, because you've got slopes that are -- a lot of these greens actually the lows are in the middle of the green. The water yesterday we saw puddling into the middle of the greens.   
 So it doesn't always break towards the lake.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, right.  
  
  Q. I should say it was caddies that told me that more than players. Maybe that was it.   
 STACY LEWIS: Well, if people are reading them that way, they're reading them wrong, so that's fine with me. (Laughing.)   
  
  Q. Yeah, I'd stick with you.  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Let's talk a little bit about the upcoming Solheim Cup. You're clearly an excellent match player with your record at St. Andrews or Curtis Cup. Is there a different mindset that you're going to take into this match play Solheim Cup upcoming than you have now, say?  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I don't know. I think a lot of it I'm just going to try to get there and learn from everybody else. A lot it is just going to be handling the crowd and the situation.   
 My golf has been fine. I'm not worried about how I'm going to play. There will be a lot of people that there will have experience, so I'm just going to try to lean on them and just learn from it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT