MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
July 9, 2019
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Stacy, last year this was your last tournament before taking time off to have your baby.   
STACY LEWIS: Yes.   
THE MODERATOR: Can you put into words how the last year has changed for you?   
STACY LEWIS: Well, it's flown by.  That's the crazy part, is how quickly it's gone by.  Life has changed a lot.  It's been amazing the journey of the last year.  To think that I have an eight month old is pretty crazy.  She's doing great with all the travel and I'm figuring out my golf game.   
I'm just excited with the way things are trending, and always excited to be here with the family.  I have a lot of help this week so I don't have to worry about a thing.   
THE MODERATOR: How special is it to now be able to bring Chesnee back here to the Marathon Classic?   
STACY LEWIS: It's really cool.  I was thinking about it when I was playing today that as a kid we would always come back to this tournament.  It was around 4th of July, and so we would always come and see family.  I was that little girl that as running around getting autographs.   
Just to think that I get to do now the same thing with my daughter and I get to bring her here and she gets to do that one day.  I was thinking about that today.  It's really special.   
To think, too, that we've had this tournament long enough for that too is pretty amazing.   
THE MODERATOR: This is your 13th start here this week.  What does this tournament mean to you?   
STACY LEWIS: Obviously it was my first start.  My first time playing in a pro event was here, so I've had all the range of emotions, the nerves.   
But for Marathon to step up and keep this tournament coming back, and for this community, it means so much.  So much money is raised this week for local charities that without us coming they wouldn't be able to do a lot of what they're able to do.   
THE MODERATOR: We're more than halfway through the LPGA season.  How do you gauge your season thus far?   
STACY LEWIS: Hasn't been where I wanted it.  It's been a little bit of a struggle golf-wise just getting the body to come back and figuring out a routine with Chesnee.   
But I really feel like in Arkansas I made some strides ball striking-wise and just cleaning up little stuff, and I'm actually really excited with the way things are trending.   
The stretch of tournaments coming up is important for Solheim and going over to the British, one of my favorite tournaments of the year.  I also have two weeks by myself where I actually get some sleep, so I'm kind of excited.  While I'll miss Chesnee, I'm excited to have a couple weeks to really get to focus on me and my golf and hopefully get a couple good weeks overseas.   
THE MODERATOR: You mentioned the two majors coming up.  With this tournament kicking off an important stretch, how much is Solheim Cup on your mind?   
STACY LEWIS: It's very much on my mind.  Juli is trying to get me to not think about it and not worry about it.  It's hard to not pay attention to the points.   
I've never been on this side of it where you're having to watch the point list.  I've always been up there pretty high and never had to worry.  So a little different scenario.   
I feel like this week I've got a chance to get some points, and next week, too, playing with Gerina.  I feel like we pair pretty well together.  I just think these next four weeks are pretty important for that.   
THE MODERATOR: Before I open it up to questions, just talking about Solheim Cup 2021.   
STACY LEWIS: Yes, Inverness.   
THE MODERATOR: Nearby Inverness.  Can you kind of talk about what you think the atmosphere might be like with that event here?   
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, well, Judd is fired up.  I'll tell that you much.  Every time I talk to him that is all he talks about is Solheim Cup and how much money they've sold and the sponsorships.  They're trying to make it the biggest one ever.   
Obviously I've got that on my radar for a couple years of wanting to play there.  Always thinking about Solheim Cup, whether it's a Solheim Cup year or not.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Just did you say Chesnee is with you this week?  
STACY LEWIS: Yes, she is here this week.  She goes to day care while I'm practicing and everything.   
 Q.  Okay.  That was something I was going to ask.  All the relatives around here probably really want to see the baby, right?  
STACY LEWIS: They do.  They do.  She's still getting some time with the family, but I want to keep her in a routine of going to day care and making sure she gets good naps, because good naps helps us sleep at night.  They're not there when she's not sleeping at night, so we're still trying to figure that out.   
THE MODERATOR: Obviously you're a professional.  But especially with Marathon as your sponsor, but now with Chesnee and someone else to look after, too, how have you been able to manage those expectations, but responsibilities as well?   
STACY LEWIS: Right.  It's been tough.  I feel like I've talked about it a lot with my agent of trying to manage my schedule of putting stuff in off weeks.  Do we do it during tournament weeks?  -- it's just trying to figure out -- we used to put a lot of stuff in my off weeks, but now it's been harding with her and finding someone to watch her in my off weeks.   
Now do we put more in a tournament week and make it busy while still keeping up the obligations?  It's been a hard juggle of trying to figure everything out.  Especially this stretch I've had I guess over the last four or five tournaments.  I've had Arkansas, KPMG, this one.  We had Pure Silk thrown in there.  So a lot of my sponsor tournaments, which is what I wanted, but also adds some responsibility for me.   
So it's been a hard balance, but you just get through it.  Get through every day is my motto, and worry about the next one tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: Any questions for Stacy?   
 Q.  You've been on the tour for ten years now.  Can you just reflect on how the tour has improved since the early days to where it is now?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it's changed a lot.  I would say tournament-wise I think we've made exponential gains.  You look at the purses.  The Women's British Open just announced a big increase.  We got some competition created amongst our tournaments, which is a great thing.   
Talent level has gotten extremely young.  Obviously a lot of international players, so it's changed quite a bit on the players' side.   
But I think it can be for the better.  I think the young talent, it's fun to watch.  It's fun to watch these girls hit it so far.  It's just completely changing the game of golf.  I think it's really fun to watch.  I hope people can start embracing it.   
 Q.  With all that's going on this week and the fact -- I mean, you've gone through most of it before.  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah.   
 Q.  You're adding a baby to the mix and you've never really performed all that great here.  
STACY LEWIS: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Is that a lot on you for this week?  
STACY LEWIS: It's not any more than any other week.  I'll tell that you.  Every week is busy now, and I don't know why my results haven't been great here.  I like the golf course.  Just comes down to making putts at the end of the day.   
But I do feel like I'm playing really well right now, so I'm excited about this year.  I'm excited to just be playing again this week because I really feel like I'm trending in a good direction.   
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Best of luck.  Keep trending.   
STACY LEWIS: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT