AVNET LPGA CLASSIC
April 29, 2011
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Stacy Lewis into the interview room. Congratulations on your 1-under, 71 today. Take us through the round and how things have gone yesterday and today again.
 STACY LEWIS: Today's compared to yesterday, I actually hit one more green than yesterday, but I wasn't close to the hole. I didn't really get anything close, and missed in the wrong spot a couple times.
 Scrambled around and just got the ball in the hole, and was pretty happy shooting 1-under.
 MODERATOR: Sometimes when you don't hit it as close, but yet you can still shoot around like today, is that even better motivation, I guess a good boost for you when you can do that?
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I mean, the two-putt I made on 18 kind of summarized the day. It was hard. It was a struggle. I birdied a couple of par-5s that you have to do out here. 
 I don't know. I was pretty happy with it, though. 
 MODERATOR: Questions.

 Q. What are you expecting from the afternoon rounds? Do you feel like there will be some other numbers up there pushing you people that are up front?
 STACY LEWIS: I don't think anybody's going to run a way. I think the golf course is playing too hard, especially this afternoon. It's going to get firm, which off the tee that helps if you have shorter clubs. 
 But some of the hole locations, even this morning it was hard to hold the green and get it close. So I think all week it's going to be close. You're not going to see a 63 or something like that. Nothing crazy low this week. 

 Q. How are you finding the greens out here? Is it hard to make the ball stop?
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, they're better than they were last year. They were really firm last year. But just they're drying out, and this morning I thought it was hard because they were soft in the morning, and then I was trying to figure out when they were drying out during the day.
 So I had some shots that I thought were going to I hit and release just hit and stop, where yesterday we knew everything was going to release.

 Q. Was there a part in the round today that was a turning point that kept it together for you? 
 STACY LEWIS: Um, no. It was just kind of up and down all day. Just had to fight. Made a couple bad bogeys on the par-3s, but played well coming in. 
 Just missed a birdie on 17; thought I made the putt. Birdied 16 and made a great two-putt there, so good momentum going into the weekend. 
 MODERATOR: All right. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT