LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 11, 2011
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about today's round. Just phenomenal. 8-under for the day.  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I played awesome. I hit a lot of shots close. I think I had three birdies. I was inside two feet, and just finally made some putts. Just felt really good today.  
  
  Q. What was it? I mean, did you sleep on a certain side? What got clicking?   
 STACY LEWIS: I don't know. We spent -- me and my caddie spent about two hours on the putting green yesterday trying to figure something out. I mean, putted horrible yesterday.   
 Knew I was hitting it well, so just needed to give myself some opportunities. Just started hitting them close and just got me in good rhythm.  
  
  Q. Do you think it's enough of a push to really give you a chance tomorrow to maybe take over the lead?  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I'm hoping the wind starts to pick up a little bit and the scores don't get too low. But, I mean, I definitely think -- I mean, it's going to take another low one like I did today, but I think I definitely put myself in there.  
  
  Q. 64, I mean, career-wise, what's the LPGA career low?   
 STACY LEWIS: I have no idea. It's probably close to that. Yeah, I don't know. You would have to ask the media...   
 It's close to it.  
  
  Q. Yeah. I hate to rain on -- Thursday got off to a real good start and kind of ran into some problems on the back nine.   
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What happened Thursday, I mean, on the back side?  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I was playing really well and just kind of hit a couple bad shots and left a (indiscernible) shots, and that's what -- with this golf course, if you hit it -- if you miss in the wrong to the spot, you're making bogeys or doubles. So it was just little things. It wasn't anything major.  
 Then yesterday I hit it great and putted awful. I think I had 34 putts yesterday; 26 today. So there's your eight shots.  
  
  Q. Yeah. Quote/unquote moving day, I mean, if you're going to give yourself a chance, you come out here this morning I'm sure with a pretty aggressive...  
 STACY LEWIS: Right.  
  
  Q. And especially in an earlier group, the conditions were pretty nice.   
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was. The wind didn't blow until really we were on 9. Got off to a good start. I knew there was no place to go but up, so be aggressive and you can just go for some flags.   
 There were a lot of hole locations that were right on the front today, so early in the morning that was great because the greens are so soft. So that'll on a challenge I think come later this afternoon. Interesting to see what happens.   
 But I think just the conditions of the course being a little softer definitely helped me out.  
  
  Q. Your caddie, what's his name?  
 STACY LEWIS: Travis Wilson.  
  
  Q. I know once upon a time you came here, you were still in college, I mean, your dad...  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah.  
  
  Q. I mean, when did you start using a tour caddie?  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was kind of at the end of that year, towards the end of that year. It's too hard with your parents. You're with them all the time.   
 There are certain things you can say to your parents that doesn't fly, and I can stay it to Travis and it can be fine. So it's just too tough of a relationship.  
  
  Q. Do your folks, do they get to some tour stops?  
 STACY LEWIS: They're here.  
  
  Q. Are they here? Okay.  
 STACY LEWIS: My mom came in this morning; my sister and brother-in-law are here.   
  
  Q. What is your mom's name?  
 STACY LEWIS: Carol.   
  
  Q. Carol. And is your dad here, too?  
 STACY LEWIS: Yes, Dale.   
  
  Q. Dale. Okay. I mean, I know you live in Texas. I mean, you grew up in Texas?  
 STACY LEWIS: I did. I grew up in the Woodlands.   
  
  Q. Okay. And you went to Arkansas?   
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Yeah, you've got to feel, you know, like you said, maybe the wind will pick up little more.   
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, when I made the turn I knew I was playing well. I kind of put 10 in the back of my mind. I though, If I can get to that, I can be in there going into the weekend.   
 I mean, just hopefully the leaders don't go shoot a 65. If they shoot a 65, I'm pretty far out of it. But just hope they keep it semi close. I shoot another 64 tomorrow, you never know what's going to happen.  
  
  Q. One other thing. They had some rain last night.   
 STACY LEWIS: Uh-huh.  
  
  Q. They said in the fairways today you could...  
 STACY LEWIS: Lift, clean, and place.   
  
  Q. You could? Okay.  
 STACY LEWIS: Uh-huh. It actually wasn't bad at all. I was surprised we actually did it.  
  
  Q. I know they said they couldn't mow the fairways last night. It was just too wet. I heard preferred lie and then I heard lift, clean, and place.   
 STACY LEWIS: It's the same thing. Yeah, same. The correct term is "preferred lie."   
  
  Q. I see. Okay. What do you do the rest of the day.   
 STACY LEWIS: Um, just go and practice a little bit and go get a little work-out in, go for a run probably, and not watch some golf.  
  
  Q. Is that part of your routine pretty much?  
 STACY LEWIS: Oh, yeah. I work-out a lot. Just clear my head a little bit and just get away from the golf so I don't sit and watch it on TV. Just hang out with my family.   
  
  Q. Don't think about it too much.  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah. Not worry about what anyone else is doing.  
  
  Q. I think you're going to be in probably in a little later group tomorrow.   
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah. That was the goal, later tee times.   
  
  Q. A lot of the players are mentioning that the rough is a trouble spot for the course making it slightly difficult. Did the rain have any affect? Did you notice anything in that aspect?   
 STACY LEWIS: I don't think so. I think it was long and it was going to get longer no matter what during the week. If you miss it in the wrong spots, it's definitely trouble.  
  
  Q. And as far as the fairways, you said the course of the softer.   
 STACY LEWIS: Uh-huh.  
  
  Q. Again, with the rough being the trouble spot of the course, does it help at all to have the course soft in the fairway? Does it make it easier to hit the fairway and keep it out of the rough?  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it is. It actually makes the fairways a little wider because they can't run thought, and the greens are softer so it can't run through on the greens.   
 So I think it does make it a little bit easier, but you have to be careful not to spin shots back with wedges.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT