AVNET LPGA CLASSIC
April 27, 2011
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to women the 2011 Kraft Nabisco champion, Stacy Lewis, into the interview room. You're coming off your first win. You've had three weeks off. Kind of how do you feel about your game heading into this week after the break and coming off such big win for you?   
 STACY LEWIS: Well, the last couple weeks have been so crazy. I haven't ready had a lot of time to practice and really prepare the way I would have wanted to.  
 But, I mean, I know I'm playing well. It doesn't just go away too quickly. Just trying to get back playing again and get back to somewhat of a normal routine for me.  
 MODERATOR: Can you describe what the last three weeks have been like? I know you've had a lot of interview requests and appearances.  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I never -- don't think I ever really expected to get the response that I got. It was a little overwhelming, all the people I heard from and all the media requests. I guess I never really expected it, so it kind of overwhelmed me.   
 But getting more used to it. I think it's starting to hit home that I actually won. Feels pretty good.   
 MODERATOR: I was going to say, to not only get your first win, to become a Rolex first-time winner at any tournament, but to have it be a major and have it be at the Kraft Nabisco, what were all of your emotions like? Did having the time off afterward help a little bit?   
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I don't think I slept for three days probably just the adrenaline was still going.  
 But to get your first win, first major, against the best player in the world, I mean, you can't write a better story. It was the perfect place and way to win.   
 I don't know, I'm glad we had a couple weeks off, but I'm ready to get back at it.  
 MODERATOR: You say you feel good about how you've been playing. Coming to this golf course, how do you feel that it suits your game.  
 STACY LEWIS: Well, this golf course you usually see players that hit it a long ways are successful. I think if you look at Se Ri, Brittany, and Suzann were in the playoff last year, so probably three of the longest drivers on tour.   
 So I think you need to hit the ball a long ways, which helps me now. We'll see what the weather does, but I think length is the key out here.  
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Such a different storyline for you from last time you were here playing. Does it seem completely different to you?   
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I think -- well, I think I my life changed in about a week -- or a day, really. I'm just recognized more and things like that.   
 I'm in different place with my golf game. I feel more confident just being here and being on tour with the people that I'm playing against. I know that I can compete against the people out here and beat 'em most of the time.  
 I think I'm just in a much better place mentally.  
  
  Q. How much can that confidence help you with a field like you have this week here?  
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I think any time you know you can hang and play with the best players in the world, I think that's half the battle. I think you come out here and you're like, Oh, I don't know if I'm good enough to win.   
 If you know you're good enough to win, I mean, the rest is just playing golf from there.   
  
  Q. I'm changing it up a little bit. Night before a tournament starts, your routine, if there is a typical routine, are you a person that likes to get away from golf? Do you play the course in your head? What's your routine the night before?  
 STACY LEWIS: I don't know. I don't have much of a routine. Just going to dinner with my family or friends. I try to get away from golf and not even really think about it.   
 Especially tomorrow I have a late tee time, so it's really a long time until I play. So I just get away, get away from the course and just kind of relax.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 STACY LEWIS: I don't know. Sometimes you like the -- you have a good first round; you want to turn around and play again right away. Sometimes you have a bad one and you want the time to work on it.   
 I don't know, if I can go out and play well tomorrow afternoon, I want to start early again the next day. We have to deal with it every week.   
  
  Q. With the weather the way it is today, especially if it rains, what does that do to the course conditions for you personally?   
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I think we're probably going to get some rain this afternoon. We did yesterday. Just going to make it faster and longer. I think length will be more of a key.  
 I mean, a lot of the holes half the field is probably going to have to hit hybrids into, so you got to hit it straight you got to hit it far.   
 MODERATOR: Thank you very much, Stacy.  
 STACY LEWIS: Thank you.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT