BELL MICRO LPGA CLASSIC
September 9, 2008
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Stacy, thanks for coming in today. This is your third sponsor exemption of the year. Talk about being here in Mobile. 
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah. I'm really excited to be here. I've been looking forward just to being able to play again out here and just to be competitive. And I've played here in Mobile before, so I'm just excited to be back. 
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. You have a new website. If you would, just talk a little bit about that. 
 STACY LEWIS: It's stacysback.com, and another is letstacyplay.com. And a lot of it is just trying to get the word out there about what I'm trying to do and to get the sponsors to give me the invitations to play and earn my Tour card. 
 I'm trying to do something that nobody's ever done before, and I'm trying to change things a little bit, and it's been harder than we thought. You can go on the website. There's information about me, tournaments I'm playing in and how far, what the money is, how far along I am with that.
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Questions for Stacy. 

 Q. When did you play here before? Was it an AJJGA event? When was that, if you remember? 
 STACY LEWIS: It had to be, I think 2002 was when I played. It was the AJJGA. It was around this time. I think it was Labor Day weekend. So it's been a while, and I was a lot younger, but coming back, I remember the clubhouse and things like that. 

 Q. How much of the course came back to you once you were out there today?
 STACY LEWIS: A couple of the holes did. I mean a lot of it I didn't really remember, because I think I'm hitting from different places than when I was here then. But I remember the greens, how hilly they were and things like that, so that definitely helps, I think.

 Q. You said this has been harder than you expected it to be. Can you just talk a little bit about some of the difficulties of that and just getting the attention? 
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah. After the Open and finishing third there, I thought the sponsors would really want to get me in their tournaments and let me play, and it's just been really hard to get the exemptions. 
 Sometimes I think I should have gone and played Futures Tour and tried to get my card that way. You can always second-guess what you do, but it's been really hard to get the exemptions, and hopefully I get a couple more so I can play in six tournaments.

 Q. And do you feel confident that that's going to happen? There's still a pretty good bit of the season. There's still some opportunities there. 
 STACY LEWIS: Well, I'm already in Kapalua, so that'll be my fourth. And then hopefully get in Prattville, which is in about two weeks. And then there's the Longs in Danville, California. 
 So I feel pretty good about both of them, but it's hard to think you're playing and then -- I mean it could turn out that I'm not playing in it, so I'm trying not to get my hopes up I guess.

 Q. Can you just talk about your struggles to get to here and just what that's been like for you, all the different medical things?
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah. It's been an adventure for sure. When I graduated high school, I just wanted to play golf again. I didn't care what level I played at, where I played at or anything. 
 I just continued to get better, and it's been a dream come true just to be able to make a living playing golf and doing what I'm doing. 
 I love traveling, and I guess you have to to play this. But I love going all over the country, and I don't know. It's just been a blessing.

 Q. How difficult is that? I know that with the travel, that's really probably the hardest, the long flights. Is it difficult? Do you have to use that in deciding where you'll be or how long you can stay out on the road, that sort of thing?
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah. With my schedule this summer I haven't really had to deal with that a hole lot. 
 Definitely the day after I fly is always the hardest for me. I take it easier those days and maybe just chip and putt a little bit, and I have to work out a lot, too, just to stay loose and things like that. I haven't had to deal with a lot of the planes several weeks in a row yet.

 Q. And just one other thing. You said that you probably get up in the mornings really early and do some walking just to keep loose. Where do you do that here? Is it usually at the golf course itself or --
 STACY LEWIS: Well, I usually get up and go work out. Sometimes we have facilities we can go to, and sometimes the hotel will have kind of a workout place. 
 I just found that while it's hard to get up that early and make yourself do it, I have to do it, and it's just part of what I have to do to play.

 Q. Stacy, would you discuss the LPGA language rule which was passed and then rescinded? Some of the players here are saying that some type of language rule is still needed, but they objected to the way this was handled releasing it right on the eve of the tournament. 
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah. I mean I'm not technically a member, and I didn't get all the information they did about it, and I know -- I mean I know a lot of the players are working towards learning the language here, and I think it's definitely needed, but I mean I don't know, there's different -- it could be handled some different ways, but I mean there's not a whole lot -- I mean I don't have any say in it really. 
 I'm just trying to get on Tour. I don't know. I think it'll be interesting to see how things turn out.

 Q. You mentioned sponsors. Apparently it does involve sponsors. What in your mind should a language rule say, if there's going to be a language rule?
 STACY LEWIS: I mean I don't know. I think as long as you can communicate with the people you're playing with, I mean make small talk with them. I know I mean when I get under pressure, sometimes it's hard for me to speak, so I couldn't imagine not knowing the language and you go and win a golf tournament and you're expected to give a speech. I couldn't imagine trying to do that, so I feel for them. 
 I don't think you can really make a rule about it. I don't think it's fair because I think you should be out here based on your play, not what language you speak. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT