U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2008
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 FULL AUDIO INTERVIEW

  
Q. Kind of put it in perspective what you learned, good, bad,  
otherwise?
 STACY LEWIS: I mean, I don't know, today I felt like I didn't really play that poorly. I just got above some of the holes and you just can't be there. I don't know, I was hitting my shots a little farther than -- just maybe some adrenalin, learning experience there. It's hard to be upset, I finished 3rd at the U.S. Open, my first pro event. It's kind of hard to be upset.
 I  
don't know, I just don't really feel like I played that poorly. 
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 STACY LEWIS: It was just an awkward -- I was an uphill lie, and I was afraid I was going to get up in the wind and drop short. So I took more club, and actually got up in the wind and got left.
  
So -- honestly I didn't even think the chip shot could go off the  
front of the green when I hit it. So, yeah, the wind got it and  
just -- I don't know, I mean, I was still in the tournament at that  
point. That's not what cost me, at all. But I had a couple  
of three-putts. I don't know --
 
  
Q. How were you feeling today on the first tee?
 STACY LEWIS: I was actually fine. I wasn't that nervous at all. It was just a cool experience. The whole day was just awesome. The fans are great. Everyone -- I mean everybody is yelling your name as you're walking down the fairway. I shot 78, but --
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 STACY LEWIS: When I first checked my e-mail I had 32. And then they kept coming in as the night went on. And then I had probably at least 20 text messages and then they kept coming as the night went on, too.
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 STACY LEWIS: I really didn't. We went to dinner and I was hungry. I was tired, and, I don't know, I slept really well last night. I felt good going into today and things just didn't go my way, I don't know.
 
  
Q. The conversation between the two of you, you were both trying  
to keep your head above water for a while. And you guys both  
doubled two, and you were both kind of bloody early. 
 STACY LEWIS: Yeah, there wasn't much talk. We talked a little on 18th tee. Wow, this is ugly. Especially early, because nobody was hitting a green. We were just trying to make pars. But it was fun playing with Paula. It was fun being in the last group.
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 STACY LEWIS: Yardage? I think I had 185, 190-ish, something like that, I had to go around the tree and I just over cooked it around the tree.
 I  
tried to hit a little 5-wood in there. I thought I did pretty  
well to make bogey. I wasn't too upset about that.
 
  
Q. What do you think about Inbee's round today?
 STACY LEWIS: It was amazing. The wind was hard out there. It was swirling every hole. You couldn't get a general direction of the wind at all. It was hard to trust the clubs that you had, if you even had the right club. But that's an awesome round of golf and she definitely deserves to win.
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
 STACY LEWIS: Not really, no. She played junior golf when I did, but she was a lot better than me at that point. I know she turned pro early. But I don't really know her.
 
  
Q. Have you ever had a putting day like yesterday and then come  
back and had another really good putting day or does it tend to go the  
other way?
 STACY LEWIS: I don't know. I don't really know. Yesterday was kind of -- it was all speed. Yesterday my speed was perfect. And then today, I mean, I was short, I was long, short, long, it was never consistent at all. So that was mainly the cause of it.
 
  
Q. Are you going to tee it up right away next week?
 STACY LEWIS: I think so. I've got some momentum here today. Even though I didn't play well today, I'm looking forward to next week, I get to kind of defend. To be the non-defending champion, I guess.
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
  
STACY LEWIS: I hope. It's supposed to be pretty  
good. It might be pretty hot. 
 
  
Q. When did you start thinking about the exemption and getting  
enough money to get close to the exemption?
  
STACY LEWIS: Well, the money I make here doesn't count.  
No. The only thing that could have helped me was to win. 
 
  
Q. (Inaudible.)
  
STACY LEWIS: You'll have to ask the LPGA. 
 End of FastScripts 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT