LPGA NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
September 5, 2007
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Stacy, thanks for coming in today and spending a few minutes with us.  You are the hometown queen this week a sponsor exemption and you're also the reining NCAA champion.  Talk about the season you've had so far and playing in Arkansas this week. 
 STACY LEWIS:  These last couple of months have been crazy, I've been in a different city every week.  It's been so much fun.  I've played really well.  I've been looking forward to this week for the past three months now.  I can't wait to see what the crowds will be like, and I think it will be a great event. 

 Q.  Just talk about your exchange.  Talk about your best rounds here. 
 STACY LEWIS:  Well, we used to have a home tournament here and we quit having it two years ago.  I played in it my first two years, so I have had six competitive rounds on the course, but we would come out and practice all the time.  So I'm very familiar with the course.  I don't know how much it will really help me this week, but you never really know. 

 Q.  Is the setup different? 
 STACY LEWIS:  There are a couple of tees that are different, but yardage-wise it's similar. 

 Q.  Which are the holes? 
 STACY LEWIS:  One, we played the back tee and it's just up one box.  And then 12, we used to play up a box and now it's the back tee box.  And then 14 is actually playing shorter, playing up one tee.  I think they want people to try to go for it. 

 Q.  Is that something you plan on doing? 
 STACY LEWIS:  I don't think so.  Probably hit an iron and an iron, and a wedge. 

 Q.  What's your preparation schedule been this week starting Sunday or Monday. 
 STACY LEWIS:  Well, I got in -- I played in an event last week, so I didn't get in until late Sunday night and then I've just been trying to take it easy.  I tried to play a few holes yesterday but it started to rain.  But I've played the course so much it's kind of like what's one more round going to help me. 

 Q.  You probably enjoy taking it easy. 
 STACY LEWIS:  Right, it's been good to just practice and just putt around and hit balls, because I really haven't done that that much. 

 Q.  Prediction on what the winning score, the competitive score will be this week? 
 STACY LEWIS:  I would say at least 10-under, probably.  If we get more rain and it gets softer, it might get lower than that. 

 Q.  Have you gotten any advice from the pros about how to approach your home tournament? 
 STACY LEWIS:  Not really.  Not a lot of pros have the opportunity to go play at home.  I'm just going to really try to enjoy the event and I know people will be cheering for me and people will be happy for me no matter how I play, so it's just a matter of going out and enjoying it. 

 Q.  Talk about the gallery.  Will you have a lot of people following you out there? 
 STACY LEWIS:  People haven't seen me play in two years, I'm just really excited they get to see me play.  I've given so many tickets out to friends and family, I'm just excited for everything to watch. 

 Q.  You have a teammate on the bag.  How do you think it will help you? 
 STACY LEWIS:  It's going to be a great experience for her, just to see what it's like out there and see how players play.  She knows the course really well, so it's kind of a no-brainer for me. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 STACY LEWIS:  I mean, probably just that I can play out here and I'm good enough to compete at this level, and if I can just continue to improve there's no telling what I can do. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 STACY LEWIS:  Well, my dad is on the bag most of the time.  Other than -- at the Open, I had my old coach Kelly on the bag, but every other time I've had my dad. 

 Q.  I'm sorry, who was your old coach? 
 STACY LEWIS:  Kelly Hester. 

 Q.  And which teammate is on the bag for you this week? 
 STACY LEWIS: Lucy Nunn. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Stacy, thanks for your time and good luck this week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT