KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 30, 2007
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  The back shot? 
 STACY LEWIS:  It was fun. 

 Q.  Can you talk about (indiscernible)? 
 STACY LEWIS:  (Indiscernible). 

 Q.  (Off Microphone) 
 STACY LEWIS:  Next Thursday. 

 Q.  Talk a little bit about impressions here at Mission Hills, first of all. 
 STACY LEWIS:  I love the course.  (Indiscernible) really well.  (Indiscernible) is really tough.  Green is (indiscernible) I like that about a golf course. 

 Q.  (Indiscernible) correct? 
 STACY LEWIS:  Yes.  Played one last summer.  But the first major. 

 Q.  It's huge. 
 STACY LEWIS:  It is. 

 Q.  I (indiscernible) on the boards.  Can you talk a little bit about that? 
 STACY LEWIS:  Just more a confidence builder than anything.  (Indiscernible) shows me how good I can be and (indiscernible) I'm really excited about that in the future. 

 Q.  This course is played extremely tough, much longer than in the past.  Is that the type of course that you just benefit from? 
 STACY LEWIS:  I don't know.  I just play well on hard golf courses.  I don't know.  I don't know what it is, really.  It's definitely long for me because I don't hit as far as some of the other people.  Able to manage my game really well, fairways (indiscernible) most of the time. 

 Q.  You're from Texas, you play (indiscernible) where is that accent? 
 STACY LEWIS:  I don't have an accent at all.  I lived in South Carolina for a couple of years, had an accent there and lost it in Texas. 

 Q.  Any of the holes in particular that you will remember that you know that you're going to have to do something special on tomorrow, on Sunday? 
 STACY LEWIS:  I don't know.  I think you take advantage of the (indiscernible) hopefully making (indiscernible) bogeys.  The top 4 are so long.  If you make par sometimes it's a really good score.  Taking advantage of that? 

 Q.  Any of them give you trouble today? 
 STACY LEWIS:  I played the par 5s today.  (Indiscernible) of them.  And that was good.  Didn't hit the ball as well as (indiscernible) but they're going to happen. 

 Q.  Right now you're the low (indiscernible)? 
 STACY LEWIS:  Right. 

 Q.  What does that say? 
 STACY LEWIS:  I don't know.  That's really cool.  Just -- confidence.  We have a tournament next weekend so going there I'll have confidence going into that. 

 Q.  You don't mind missing that one test that you had to take? 
 STACY LEWIS:  I don't mind at all.  Teachers are really good about it.  They're actually really excited for me. 

 Q.  Who do you have out here with you? 
 STACY LEWIS:  My dad.  He's the only one here. 

 Q.  There's really not a big contingent of Razorback fever (indiscernible)? 
 STACY LEWIS:  They came out and lost.  But (indiscernible) calling my name cheering for me, that's really exciting. 

 Q.  What are you going to have to do for Sunday.  Par 5s, what will you have to do?  This is positionally, someone went 10-under -- it's not going to happen? 
 STACY LEWIS:  Not this year.  But I think keep playing the way I'm playing and make more birdies and bogeys.  I don't think that far under par is going to win this. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT