SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 6, 2019
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Is it easier than you thought?  
STACY LEWIS: It's been hard.  It's been -- the energy level I'd say has been the hardest part.  You're just exhausted every night.  You know, obviously the golf is the same once you're inside the ropes, but the way you prepare and the order that it is in your life is completely different.  You want your golf to be a priority, but she's my No. 1 and then there's family and then other obligations and then golf has kind of gotten lost a little bit for me.  Trying to put it back in there behind Chesnee and hopefully it can be a priority.  Chesnee is a priority but I want golf to be up there and other media and sponsor stuff.  Life is just crazy really.  There's just so much going on.   
 Q.  After the first year -- the first year is a major adjustment for everybody.  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it's already gotten easier I would say.  Every kind of milestone, just being able to sit herself up at dinner, she can sit in the high chair, and now she can move a little bit and don't have to entertain so much.  But now we have to watch and make sure she doesn't get into stuff.  So I mean, every stage I feel like it's gotten a little bit easier.   
 Q.  And do you automatically child-proof a room once you go in it?  
STACY LEWIS: Oh, yeah.  She's pulled things over in the hotel room, run into stuff, but she gets up and keeps going.  They're pretty resilient.   
 Q.  Can I ask you about 25 years, the celebration that just happened, and just being able to thank Smuckers, what has this child care center meant to you personally?  
STACY LEWIS: Gosh, there's no way I could do what I'm doing without the day care.  To have someone travel with you full-time or to have a nanny, it doesn't really seem possible.  I know Chesnee is safe.  I know that she's developed quicker because of being in day care, and there's just so many positives from it.  I just can't thank Smuckers enough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT