DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 17, 2019
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Stacy, first round as a new mom, I imagine it went pretty well for you.  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, pleasantly surprised.  Had pretty low expectations going into the day.  Just really made a lot of putts.  I had some weird shots, which I knew was going to happen, having not played in a while.  Just, I don't know where it came from, but I'm going to take it.   
 Q.  Did you enjoy the format, the different kind of format?  
STACY LEWIS: I did.  I had a lot of fun with the guys.  Tom and Jon, they were taking things pretty seriously too.  You could tell they wanted to play well and do well.  I think that kind of helped me get into a normal rhythm of playing and kind of getting back into what competitive golf is.   
 Q.  I mean, it might have been a little bit different if you played with lesser players maybe.  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it might have been different if they were drinking beer the whole time.  They at least waited until the last couple of holes to pull out the beer.  But it was fun.  It felt like you were kind of going out and playing a round with your buddies versus a golf tournament.  It's a great way to start the year, just being pretty relaxed.   
 Q.  So what surprised you the most about your golf game?  
STACY LEWIS: Just the number of birdies I made.  I kind of wasn't expecting that with -- I thought the golf course was pretty hard because I had to hit a few hybrids on the par 4, so it was still kind of long for me still.  But just unexpected with all the birdies.   
I putted it pretty good.  I got a new shaft in my putter, some new technology, so I was excited about it coming in.  It was just nice to see it actually working.   
 Q.  So you were a Braves fan as a kid.  Was that from your dad?  
STACY LEWIS: We grew up in South Carolina.  We would go to Braves games all the time and sit down the third base line.  So just, I mean, the World Series runs in the '90s, I remember all of that stuff.  So it was very cool to play with Tom today and talk to him.   
 Q.  Obviously, Stacy, when you came out and came on Tour, one of the biggest things is learning curve of where do you go, how do you set a schedule?  Are you going to have to go through all that now?  
STACY LEWIS: Well, now it's where's daycare and how do I get out the door on time?  Do I have all the bags that I need?  I mean, you've got to take three trips to the car to get out the door every morning.  So it's a new normal.   
 Q.  Did you find yourself thinking about Chesnee when you were out there?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I mean, a little bit.  You just look forward to being done so I can go pick her up.  That's just the best part of the day.  Some of the music on the range, Gerrod likes to sing the Imagine Dragons Thunder Song to her, and it gets her to laugh.  Of course, that song comes on on the range, so it made us both think of her.  But she's always there.  You just hope your phone doesn't ring and something's wrong.  But so far we've had a good week.   
 Q.  Are you fatigued at all?  
STACY LEWIS: Yes (laughter).  Those last two holes, having to wait like that, I was just trying to keep my legs moving and make sure I used them on the last couple of shots.   
 Q.  It's sad to be an outstanding professional athlete you have to be a little bit selfish sometimes.  You can't be selfish anymore.  
STACY LEWIS: She's just number one on the list.  I just move further down, and it's okay.  There's enough time in the day for everything.  We've got great family that's been helping us baby sit and allowing me to practice.  Just it makes me better with my time of when I am by myself.  I want to do my practice, get in, get out, and go see her.   
 Q.  There's no wasting time anymore.  
STACY LEWIS: No.  The days go by really fast.   
 Q.  It's just the first round of the year, so you're not going to make more of it than if it would have been a bad round.  But still just to start positively in this new path, what did that mean to you?  
STACY LEWIS: It's just exciting to see that I can take time off and have a baby and your golf swing still comes back.  You still know how to make putts, and just some assurance that it's still there.  As sharp as it probably needs to be?  No.  But just that it's there.  It's encouraging and makes you excited about coming back.   
 Q.  You know moms have won Major Championships.  It's been done before.  You've got a couple of role models with Nancy and with Juli.  Have you talked to them about what it's like?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, a little bit.  It just hasn't been done in a while.  Catriona Matthew, she won about nine months after having her second -- nine weeks?  There you go, nine weeks after having her second, which I couldn't imagine, having gone through it.   
You just have a lot of respect for the moms out there, even moms that work.  Just the balance of daycare or how do you take care of them every day.  Then you come home at night when you're tired and they need to get fed and to a bath and to everything else.  It's pretty exhausting.   
 Q.  You have a different outlook on moms in general?  
STACY LEWIS: Sure, a lot more respect for the moms that are working for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT