MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 12, 2018
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So I guess my first question most importantly, are you and Garrett still on speaking terms?
STACY LEWIS: Oh, we're good.  It was a little difficult just to get in a rhythm and figure out how we were going to work together.  But got into a rhythm there on the back nine and played some good golf.
Q. Does it ever get old just playing in your hometown?  Is it special pretty much every time?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, yeah, just being here with family and having that time.  I mean, I get to spend a lot of time with my Cousins here that we wouldn't normally get.  So it's just more fun to have that family time at night, and we do a bunch of cookouts.  Just to get that time together.  I know when I hit a good shot, they're cheering for me the whole way, so it's a lot of fun.
Q. Does that ease the pressure at all in comparison to different tournaments, just knowing you have a foundation here?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I've learned how to handle it.  I think at first it was more pressure.  I put more pressure on myself trying to play well here, now I'm more relaxed doing it, knowing that they're going to come watch me regardless and cheer for me the whole way.
Q. Being this is your last tournament before you have the baby, are you in a more relaxed tone or maybe less pressure than the last few years you've come here?
STACY LEWIS: No, not necessarily.  I'm just too competitive.  I want to try to give myself a chance to win this on Sunday, regardless how I feel or what my body is doing.  I was able to do it today.  I felt like I got it around there pretty good, and hopefully I can keep doing that.
Q. Has the pregnancy affected your game in any way, do you think?  In terms of preparation?  I mean, I can't imagine you feel great.
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it definitely feels a little different.  I noticed a few things today.  I had to get the rib cage down, and the hips were kind of going a different direction.  So just little things I have to adjust every day.  We had made a little adjustment to the putting because of the belly.  So just little adjustments here and there.  But I feel like I can still play some pretty good golf.
Q. Clearly you did, a 3-under round today, that's good no matter what, pregnant or not.
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I think anything under par on this golf course is always good.  It's one of those sneaky hard courses that you see low scores every now and then, but with these greens, I don't think anybody's going to get too far away.
Q. We're hearing great things about the golf course.  How does it look out there?
STACY LEWIS: Honestly, it's as good as I've ever seen it.  The rough isn't as long as I would like.  But just the condition of the fairways, and the greens, it's as good as I've seen it.
Q. They're expecting the temperatures to get a little warmer every day, and we had that a couple weeks ago in Chicago.  How do you plan to manage the heat as we keep going?
STACY LEWIS: I'm okay with the heat because that's going to make the golf course play a little shorter.  So I had a lot of 6-irons today.  So I'm hoping it gets firm and fast, and shortens this thing up for me.
Q. I should have asked this the other day, you've had so much success.  In some ways for all your wins, is this as rewarding a year as there is?  Just for the recent example that you mentioned with that, and obviously starting a new chapter, but mostly just the example you're setting for women.
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it's been -- I just feel like I'm so fortunate to be in this position where I can have a family and not be worried about my career and know that I'm going to have a place to play when I come back.  That's the most special thing to me is to look back and think of all the of these things that I've accomplished.
Hopefully my little girl one day can see all those things and think wow, my mom was pretty cool and did all that, but we'll see.
Q. I don't mean to put you on the spot.  But is it safe to assume that Marathon will follow suit with what KPMG did?
STACY LEWIS: I don't know yet, but I hope they do.  I was talking to Gary, their CEO yesterday, and it's already started a conversation in their company, just on their maternity policy.  They've had it at one month, and he's going to increase it up to three.  He's like I've got to work through a lot of channels to get it there, but he wants to get it to three months, which I think is pretty cool.  We've created a conversation, and that's what the whole goal was.
Q. Speaking of that conversation, Serena Williams is in the finals at Wimbledon now.
STACY LEWIS: That's awesome.
Q. Tell us your thoughts on that and everything going on?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it's cool to see her get her body back so quick.  It's encouraging for me to know that it's not going to take that long, and that you can do it.  It's going to be hard, but you can do it.  It's just cool to see her doing it for all the moms out there.
Q. So looking forward, have some rest, afternoon tee time tomorrow.  Does that set you up well for the relaxation part?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I've had a few early mornings this week.  So I'm looking forward to a little nap this afternoon, which is part of the routine, and just being rested up for tomorrow, and looking forward to hopefully playing a little shorter golf course tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT