CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 3, 2017
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: It's my pleasure to welcome in the 2017 Cambia Portland Classic champion, Stacy Lewis, to the media center.   
Stacy, before we get to the golf, I know you got some news in your interview, that KPMG would be matching your donation, your entire winner's check, and also you heard from Marathon, your other sponsor, that they would be donating $1 million.   
Can you just talk about that support.   
STACY LEWIS: Yeah.  I mean, I was hoping some of my sponsors would step up and donate a little bit.  Obviously wasn't expecting the match from KPMG.  Marathon, they have an office and refinery and all that down in Galveston, down in Houston, so they wanted to make that donation, but didn't want to make it to the public.  I think it's something we should talk about because it's a big deal.   
My sponsors have always been great from the getgo.  Days like this and when things happen and the way they continue to support me is unbelievable.   
THE MODERATOR: You mentioned early in the week if you were to win it may be more special than two of your majors.  How are you feeling now that you have won?   
STACY LEWIS: I'm relieved that I didn't have to play another hole.  It was tough there that back nine.  I felt like I was hitting a lot of good shots, hitting a lot of good putts, and they just weren't going in.  In Gee was making everything.   
I kind of resigned to the fact that whatever was going to happen was going to happen.  I just needed to commit to my golf shots and hit them.  I pulled off a great up and down on 17 and probably hit one of shots of my life on 18.   
I don't know.  Just kind of handed over control and said, Take me.  Take me to the finish line.  Let me know what happens, God.  It was just amazing how when you let go of the control like that how great you can play.   
THE MODERATOR: What was the thought process on that bunker shot on 18?   
STACY LEWIS: It actually wasn't too hard of a shot, other than the tournament was on the line.  It was 140 yards, really good lie.  The bunkers here are unbelievable, so great lie.  Played upslope, so it was a perfect 8-iron.   
As soon as I hit it I knew it was good.  Wish it would have checked up a little bit quicker, but off the face I knew it was good.   
Those are the ones you sit in a fairway bunker and sweat your butt off practicing for moments like that.   
THE MODERATOR: Then the final putt drops.  You're the winner.  Your husband surprised you.   
STACY LEWIS: Yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: What were those emotions like?   
STACY LEWIS: I was fine until he showed up and then I started crying.  But just have to him here and have him support me, you know, the last two and a half three years has been really hard.  It's been really frustrating at times.   
You know, you go through all the emotions of finishing second when sometimes it's your fault and sometimes it's not, and things just don't have seem to ever go your way and you get really frustrated at times.   
He went through all of that with me, and it was probably as hard on him as it was on me.  So just to have him here and get to share the win with him was pretty special.   
THE MODERATOR: Speaking of finishing second, in between today and last win was 12 runner ups.   
STACY LEWIS: Thanks for pointing that out.   
THE MODERATOR: I know you get reminded all the time.   
STACY LEWIS: Yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: How relieved do you feel today?   
STACY LEWIS: I think more relieved just knowing that I can pull the shots off when I need to.  I knew I could win, but it's always hard.  There are great players on this tour.   
Like I said, the up and down on 17, the shot on 18, I mean, I had some help there.  That's what you need to win.  It's just knowing you can pull off those shots and make those putts.  It's just a great feeling.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, so 17, she -- coming off birdie on 16 -- I actually wrote down the 2 on the scorecard on 16 before she hit the putt because I knew she was going to make it.   
I was in the right -- I was in the first cut down the right, and I was kind of worried about it jumping a little bit out of the rough because we had a few this week, and obviously it did.  I think that 8-iron flew over 150 yards.   
Obviously I was not in a good place; In Gee hits a great shot in there?  I think the good thing I had going for me is that green was really burned out there and it's hard to read putts around that hole.   
I knew she had a tough putt, but my up and down was probably one of the hardest I've had all week.  I hit a really good chip.  I knew I was going to have a putt regardless of how good a chip shot I hit.  I knew I was going to have at least a 5-footer, and just hit one of the best putts I've hit on that back nine.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I mean, you know, I just -- all week I stayed really calm and I just tried to keep telling myself to stay calm, to stay relaxed, and to keep hitting good shots.   
I think every time In Gee hit a good shot I followed it up there right on top of her.  She was just making a few more putts.  But I was hitting the shots.  I was following it up.   
I tried to stay as calm as I could and keep doing what I had done all week.  I knew eventually a putt was going to fall.  Just happened to be for par.  It was the right one.   
THE MODERATOR: You announced on Wednesday that you would be donating your entire purse this week.  Do you think that kind of took some of the pressure off you this week?   
STACY LEWIS: Um, probably not.  You know, I don't know.  Probably was more pressure, to be honest.  But then I just had more people following and paying attention and more people wanting -- seeing how I was doing.   
On the flip side, I had all the people encouraging me and wanting me to do well and pulling for me.  I had so many messages on my phone and on social media.  Probably the most I've ever had as far as people really encouraging you.   
Honestly, I think that's what helped me through the week, just knowing people wanted me to do well, people wanted me to win this for Houston.  To do it when really I added pressure to myself is a pretty good, pretty cool deal.   
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations.  Thanks for joining us.   
STACY LEWIS: Thanks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT