RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 5, 2017
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was different today?
STACY LEWIS: I just made more putts.  I really putted pretty poorly the first two days, and you know, worked on some things yesterday.  My mom told me I needed to take my putter straighter back.  Mom apparently was right.  I hate to give her credit but she was right.
Q. Does she often give you tips?
STACY LEWIS: No, she doesn't.
Q. Is this a first?
STACY LEWIS: It is.  It is.  She didn't understand how -- kind of how a putter would swing, so we were talking kind of technical stuff last night and she's like, well, it should just go straight back and straight through, right?  And I'm like, kind of, sort of, but it shouldn't go way open and way close.  So she said it should go back straighter, and that's what I kind of worked on and it worked today.
Q. Are you buying your mom dinner tonight?
STACY LEWIS: I might buy her dinner tonight.
Q. Did you have any sort of inkling of what kind of a number you might need to get to to have a chance for tomorrow?
STACY LEWIS: Not really.  I just knew the weather's good, and when the weather is good, you have to take advantage of it.  And I think Inbee and I both knew that, playing these things over the years.  You just knew you had to go out there with a good score in the weather, and then the weather got bad, put some birdies on the board, too.
So you know, we can sit on the couch and watch them play in the rain this afternoon.
Q. Will you watch?
STACY LEWIS: I might watch a little bit, yeah, just to see how the golf course is playing.  I think you can always learn a little bit, seeing different shots.
Q. What was the pairing like?  You two, very much familiar with each other; played your best golf a lot at the same time.
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, she's probably the one person I've played the most with on Tour I would say, just as far as rounds played.  Plays fast, which is nice.  I think we ran that group in front of us off the golf course.  It was just like a good pace for both of us.  We both kept moving and didn't really have to wait.
You know, playing with Inbee, you're going to see putts go in, and that always -- I think it's helpful to watch that and to see it.  She made it look pretty easy.
Q. You've looked away from other players in the past, but does her tempo and rhythm rub off on the putting green sometimes?
STACY LEWIS: I just think the confidence of it.  She doesn't take a lot of time.  She reads it quick and steps up and hits it.  It's refreshing to not sit there and grind so much over it and worry about it and worry about things.  She just gets up and hits it.
That's what I took away from it.  You see putts rolling nicely.  You see balls going in the hole, and I think that's always a good thing, too.
Q. You have obviously great memories from this area.  Just when you first arrived, did you automatically feel a little bit comfortable or excited?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was the first time back since I had won, so we ventured to 17 and 18.  My husband hadn't really been here before, so we went back to where I hit the shot on 17 and that kind of stuff.  It was very cool coming back and brought back a lot of good memories.
Q. Do you have the same place at the Dunvegan?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, we got the whole crew there again this week.  So kind of the same people that were here for St. Andrews, and we picked up Ally McDonald, I think you found that out.  She was on the street looking for a room.  But we got the whole place rented out again, so it's a lot of fun to have everybody there.
Q. Any pearls of wisdom from Shawna?
STACY LEWIS: No, she's always given me stuff.  But just fun having her here.  I can hear her whistle and her cheers on the golf course.  That coach's whistle never seems to go away.  It's just fun having her here.
Q. A Solheim Cup question.  With that coming together, do you not envy Juli's position?  What do you think it would be like to be here?
STACY LEWIS: You know, I think she has a lot of good options.  That's what I keep telling Juli is any choice she makes is not going to be bad.  I definitely think it's a harder spot to be.  I think the hardest part is telling the players that aren't going to make it that are on the bubble.
Picking the two that are going to play is probably the easiest part I think.  She's stressing.  But she's been stressing for a long time, show.  Keep telling her to relax but it hasn't quite worked.
Q. What do you think the team needs from its two picks?
STACY LEWIS: I don't know.  I mean, I want somebody that's making putts and I don't care, you know, what golf course it's on or what type of course it's on.  I think anybody that's making putts and that's confident, that's what we need on our team.
But we have -- like I said, there's a lot of good options right there on the bubble, and some people may be further down and you could probably pick them, too, and they will be successful there, too.
I think the Rolex Rankings is going to have a big play in how things end up.  A lot could happen there before the picks are made.
Q. That's the hardest part to figure out; how high somebody could go.
STACY LEWIS: A high finish by a rookie and all of a sudden they are up there, as well.  That's the part that's a lot of the unknowns.  You just don't know.  You don't know until those Rolex Rankings, and that could honestly change things a lot.
Q. Juli said that it's more wide open that way than it was in Germany.  Do you sense that there's more players playing well, I guess?
STACY LEWIS: I do.  More younger kids, I think.  Younger, you look at like Ally is playing well.  Nelly, I know she missed the cut but she played well in Toledo.  You have some rookies there that I think would do great in that environment.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT