U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
July 14, 2017
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How aware were you when the president was here, where he was in relation to where you were today on the golf course?
STACY LEWIS: I honestly had no idea where he actually was.  I saw the cars and everything driving around.  We had a delay there at the turn.  I knew he was onsite, but I never saw him or never had a glimpse or anything.
Q. What was it like when you got to the 15 and all of the fans are looking at the box?
STACY LEWIS: I did not even notice, to be honest.  This golf course is a little hard today.  I was kind of lost in what we were doing out there.
Q. Can you talk about battling back and turning things around?
STACY LEWIS: I really played nine holes pretty bad.  Just proud of the way I came back on the back nine.  I found something with my setup on 9.  Hit two pretty good shots there.  Really proud.  I got myself back in the tournament really.
I think in a U.S. Open, usually if you are anywhere under par you've got a chance come the weekend.  I feel like the back nine helped me get back in the golf tournament.
Q. What was the toughest thing about the golf course today?
STACY LEWIS: Just the rain, I guess.  The front nine played so hard.  I think we played some of that stretch, 3 through 7, I think it's the hardest stretch on the golf course.  A couple of those holes we played in the pouring down rain.  We kind of caught it at the worst time possible.  It was hard.  It was a lot longer.  It was a completely different golf course than what we played yesterday.
Q. This is a historic moment, first president ever at a U.S. Women's Open.  Do you have a sense of that history right now?
STACY LEWIS: That was kind of what intrigued me to start the week was that we had never had an active sitting president at one of our events.  So I was kind of excited about the prospect of, regardless of who it is, that he came here to watch us.  He Tweeted about coming to the U.S. Women's Open.  Some people didn't know it was going on.  It's kind of a historic and cool moment to have our president here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT