CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 17, 2020
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Stacy, thank you for joining us.  It's been an interesting couple days, but we're out here on the golf course now.  Can you tell me just what the last couple days have been like as we just sit and wait?  It's one of those things you just can't control.
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I mean, it is what it is is really what the last few days have been.  I was relaxing a little bit.  Had my baby girl here, my mom, but we decided to send them home, so got them out yesterday.
Been doing a couple workouts in the room.  Went To the Golf Farm and hit some balls for about an hour.  But I really have been staying indoors.  The air quality has been very poor, and even yesterday I just didn't feel comfortable going out and practicing.
Q. I saw a lot of you guys headed over to that Golf Farm.  Tell us about that what that experience was like, having all of you together in that one space still trying to find a place to do your job?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, it was a really cool setup actually.  Had a few simulators, but then just more space.  You could hit into a net basically and a little putting area, little gym.
It was actually a really cool spot.  If you're local here in Portland and need a place to go in the wintertime, I would definitely go check it out.  You can get lessons there as well.
So it was a good alternative, but definitely look forward to getting back on the golf course.
Q. Looking to get back on the golf course.  I know our meteorologist is really optimistic for next three days.  There is actually a little bit of sun peeking out now.
STACY LEWIS:   Yes.
Q. You're going go our there for nine holes.  What's the plan of attack for this afternoon?  You're a past champion here; you know this course well.
STACY LEWIS:   Right.
Q. How much do you rely on that experience when you go in without much practice technically?
STACY LEWIS:   Right.  Experience is huge this week, just knowing how this golf course plays.  It's just going to be how firm are the fairways, how firm are the greens, just trying to get a feel for that more than anything.
Just fortunately too my game is in a good spot where I don't feel like I need to go grind like crazy right now.  It's just getting the rust off from the last few days and get back into a rhythm.
Hopefully we can tee it up tomorrow morning.
Q. You have had a lot of good results lately, certainly going back to your win.  You talked back in Scotland that since having Chesnee your feel like you game is finally rounding into play.  How are you feeling now?
STACY LEWIS:   I feel good.  You know, just coming off last week where I played really well, truthfully probably played better than the scores even showed; just had a lot of the putts that didn't go this.
But was able to really manage my game really good and hit the shots I wanted to hit, which is something that the last three, four years I haven't been able to do.
So right now it's just kind of fine tuning little things and getting back going.
Q. Two last questions for you, one here and one off site.  Cambia is one of the biggest supporters of the LPGA, our official mask partner here with us this week.  They have been a partner of yours for a long time.  Talk to us about Cambia and Mark Ganz and their dedication really to supporting the tour?
STACY LEWIS:   Yeah, I really got to know Mark and his team when I came back for media day after I won.  They're just great people.  A lot of my sponsors, that's more what it is to me, the relationships.  They're great people; they're a great company, as you can tell.  They're trying to help us get back going with the masks and providing a pretty significant amount of money.  The cost of that, you know, would be significant to the tour if we had to pay for that.
Sp what they're doing is allowing us to play every single week and not just this week alone.  On a sidenote, we're sad that Mark is retiring at the end of the year, so have to keep that relationship going with Cambia.
Just they've made a tremendous impact on our tour for the last few years and we're just really thankful.
Q. Then secondarily, it's the U.S. Open out at Winged Foot.  Have you been paying attention?
STACY LEWIS:   I've been watching a little bit.  My hotel doesn't have Golf Channel, so I was a little bit limited this morning as to what I could watch.  But saw the guys are playing some good -- putting up some good numbers and good scores.
But, look, this weekend I think it'll get pretty tough once they make the cut.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT