BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2017
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bogey-free today.
STACY LEWIS: Yes.
Q. How have you liked how things have pieced together this week so far?
STACY LEWIS: I played really solid; today was another good day.
Didn't have the distance control with my wedges quite dialed in the way I would've liked, but still made a bunch of birdies and shot a good round.
It's always hard to follow up a round like yesterday, so happy with the day again.
Q. You talked about your wedges and I heard you say that you're going to work on that right away.
STACY LEWIS: Yeah.
Q. Is that something you like to do typically, like you know what you need to work on and you want to do that right after the round?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, for sure.  Going into this weekend I'm going to be playing later, It's going to be hotter, going to be this temperature.  I just need to get that distance control dialed in because that is where you're going to make birdies on this golf course, is with the wedges.
Just need to get that a little bit better, because the longer irons I'm hitting good and driving it pretty well, too.
Q. You've won majors on really difficult courses where par is a good score.  How does the mentality change here for you?
STACY LEWIS: I mean, in a way you still have to be patient, because on this golf course, if you try to force things you can make some big numbers.
You have to go make birdies.  That's the mentality.  If you have a wedge in your hand, go be aggressive and make a birdie.
If it doesn't feel right, got an awkward number, just take par and move on.  It's staying patient.  There are some places on this golf course you can hit it that kind of jump up and get you.
Q. The word patience, is it because you can get too greedy to make more and more birdies?
STACY LEWIS: Very much so.  You can easily get greedy. You look at the pin on 9 there.  You go just a little bit long and you're struggling to make par.
There are just places you can't hit it into these greens.  The desert around the greens is always (indiscernible), too.
Q. What did you hit out of bunker there?
STACY LEWIS: 9-iron.
Q. What yardage?
STACY LEWIS: I was 144, so I knew it was going to come up a little short, but I had to hit it to get it onto the green.
Q. How good a shot was it?  It was a tough spot.
STACY LEWIS: It was.  It was.  I had to go a little left of the pin because of the tongue or front of the bunker.  It was probably the shot of the day.  If I misshit it at all it comes up short, so hit it perfect.
Q. What putter are you using now?
STACY LEWIS: It's called the Itsy Bitsy.  It's one I saw Jason Day and Dustin Johnson using it at the end of last year.  I just really liked the way it was swinging through impact.  Looked like it was really stable, and I wanted to try it.
It actually helps me line it up better.  My husband pointed out that it's probably the best he's ever seen me line up the putter is with that one.
It's taken a lot of the guesswork out of it and it's been working so far.
Q. When did you put it in the bag?
STACY LEWIS: It was over the off-season, so started with it in the Bahamas.  That was the first tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT