BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 18, 2017
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess today?  
STACY LEWIS: It was good.  It wasn't great, but it was good.  Definitely would've liked to have birdied those couple par-5s on the back nine.  Felt like I didn't play those very well.   
But making those two birdies coming in was huge.  With the way this golf course is playing, two back is not a big deal.   
 Q.  You're keeping the same company all three days.  Well, no, actually --  
STACY LEWIS: Now we're switching.   
 Q.  Going to miss your same partners?  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it is.  We both played great the last three days and kind of fed off each other.  We know -- we were able to kind of club off each other on par-3s and things like that.  That'll be good, but maybe we'll play better being apart.   
 Q.  You've been in this position many times before.  What's your attitude going into tomorrow?  
STACY LEWIS: I'm actually kind of excited to be in the second to the last group.  It was a little strange teeing off today and being two or three behind before you every start.  So that was kind of strange.   
It's the same.  You got to go make birdies.  I don't know what the number is going to be, but I don't think 5- or 6-under is going to cut it.  It's a shootout.  Somebody is going to shoot 8- or 9-under and win this thing.   
Might as well be me.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I love this week.  I love not only the founders here, just all the kids with the girls' golf.  I've had two girls kind of follow me around all week.  It's really cool to see all the age groups and the way those founders -- I mean they love this event and being out here and sitting on 18.   
You couldn't find many people that would love sitting on a hole for four or five hours, but they do.  They love seeing all the players that come through.  The current players get to know the founders and get to know their stories and what they did to make this tour what it is.   
That's really what this week is about.   
 Q.  Last thing from me.  The things you've been working on to give yourself these chances this year, how are they progressing?  How do you feel about the work?  
STACY LEWIS: It's good.  The golf swing, I'm still not 100% trusting it.  Few swings here or there you would like to have back.   
Overall, I feel like it's gotten better since the Bahamas even.  And the putting has been great.  That's kind of the biggest turnaround for me, is the putter.   
I made a ton of good par putts this week that maybe last year you make two or three bogeys instead.   
So I think the biggest difference has been the putter.  If I could just get trust in the golf swing a little bit more we'll be in a really good spot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT