RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 28, 2016
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Stacy, how pleased do you have to be after 5-under?  
STACY LEWIS: Well, I'm very excited with it.  Played real really solid.  Didn't make any bogeys.  It was great playing with Ariya.  She was on fire early, which told me I needed to be aggressive and keep up and started making birdies and posted a really good number.   
 Q.  How much does that motivate you?  
STACY LEWIS: Well, it helps, especially on a golf course we haven't played before, just not knowing what scores are going to be like, and just to see her playing aggressively and making birdies, it kind of kicks yourself in gear.  If you don't shoot under par, you're way behind the first day.  It was great to play with her and learned a lot.   
 Q.  Is this a golf course you feel you can attack and make a birdies at?  
STACY LEWIS: Just depends on the conditions.  Early, probably through about 15 holes, we had no wind and it was perfect, and then the last three, it got pretty windy.  It just depends how much wind there is.  We play it like we did this morning, you're going to see a lot of birdies.   
 Q.  Can you talk about how important it is to you to win another majors?  
STACY LEWIS: Well, I love majors.  I love this major.  Not necessarily this type of golf course but I love this championship.  To put my name on that trophy again would be pretty special.   
 Q.  You said you felt like the way you guys played at the International Crown, that it would be helpful this week and you would have some momentum coming in.  What do you think?  
STACY LEWIS: Well, obviously I think it helped.  Last week we had to make a lot of birdies, and again, with the conditions today, it was out there.  So just the way I played last week, I played so solid, I didn't make a ton of bogeys really all week.  I was able to be aggressive out there today and kind of freed it up a little bit more.   
 Q.  An American won the last major, Americans won the International Crown, how much does the red, white and blue matter?  
STACY LEWIS: It always matters because we're always asked about it.  It's always about where you're from.  So it does matter whether an American is on the leaderboard.  I want to keep our good streak going.  I expect the other girls from the International Crown team to play well, too.   
 Q.  Your overall year, you've worked on different things, what are the things that are coming together that most please you?  
STACY LEWIS: The ball-striking's coming together.  It wasn't quite where I wanted it today, but I think early in the year, I had to get my short game really good and I had to get my putting really good just because of the way I was hitting it, so you kind of put -- get the short game better, get the putting better and then the ball-striking starts to come around and then miss a green, it's not such a big deal and you can go out there and shoot a bogey-free round.   
 Q.  How do you assess your position after your first round?  
STACY LEWIS: It was good.  I played a really solid round today.  Really only had one putt for par and I made it.  Just playing with Ariya was a good motivation.  She got off to such a good start.  Kind of got me focused and made me realise I had to make some birdies to keep up.  It definitely helped to play with her today.   
 Q.  This is a real contrast to conditions St. Andrews; do you prefer this contrast?  
STACY LEWIS: Well, it just doesn't feel like a British Open at all.  It's more like, I'd say, a Canadian Open than a British Open.  It's just different.  I would prefer the links because I love the links-style golf.  I look forward to this championship every year just because of the style of golf.  But that's not to say you can't win on this, too.   
 Q.  And this is quite a summer, this is week eight of nine in a row, and next week is a small matter of a wedding for you.  
STACY LEWIS: It seemed a little bit better when we planned it at the time.  But it kind of is what it is.  I know next week I'm not going to be playing much golf anyway, so it was like, let's just do the wedding and get it over with and go on a honeymoon and enjoy Rio.  That's what I really want it do going into Rio is enjoy it.  I don't want to stress about it and stress about winning a medal.  Just go in there and have fun.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT