MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 17, 2016
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Do you feel better about your game at the end of this week than you did when you came in here?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it felt good.  I felt like this week I made some more progress, and that putt on 18 pretty much summarized the week.  It was really close, especially there on the back nine hit a lot of good putts that just didn't go in.
Q. Coming into this round, what was the goal and the approach?
STACY LEWIS: Well, I needed to get off to a good start, which I didn't do, and that kind of set me back a little bit.  But it was just keep working on what I was working on, and it was a little bit off today, kind of hit the irons a little bit left.  That got me in couple a couple times.  I really rallied there the last five or six holes, hit some really good shots and gave myself some good looks at birdie, and that's always good when you get down to the end and more pressure, more people around, to hit it better at the end than I did at the beginning is always good.
Q. Was it different going into today, hometown tournament and all that, being in contention?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, there's always more pressure playing here.  It's just kind of the way it is.  You know it's going to be that way starting the day.  It's hard to not put too much pressure on yourself, but I thought I played pretty well given the situation, and the wind we had today, it was not playing easy.  A couple of the girls threw up some really good rounds today, given what we were playing on.
Q. Do you get to a point of the round on a hole where you think, maybe I might not have it in the tank today?
STACY LEWIS: No.  I mean, you're always going to hit a couple, make a couple poor swings, but usually you can kind of figure it out and rally, and that's what I did.  It's just starting that many behind and getting off to a bad start just was a bad combination.
Q. When you're going up and down during the round, especially early, Lydia is throwing birdies all over the place, does that distract you at all?
STACY LEWIS: No, that's just what Lydia does.
Q. You're kind of used to it then?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, she does what she does.
Q. Just bigger picture question, network TV debut for this tournament, and the crowds were pretty unbelievable early?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, it was great.  I figured we'd have more people with my group most of the day than maybe even the last group.  Everybody showed up today.  I know Marathon kind of challenged people because they want to get the Solheim Cup here, so we had a challenge out to get record crowds, and we had pretty big ones today.  Hopefully that helps it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT