MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 15, 2016
Stacy Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice chip to save par.
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I played really solid, and it was nice just the way I finished those last five or six holes I guess.  Made a couple birdies coming in.  Actually thought I made the chip shot.  Thought I was going to steal one there on the last.
But in a pretty good spot I think given the wind that started to pick up at the end.
Q. You said yesterday nobody was going to run away with it.  Obviously put yourself in contention for the weekend.
STACY LEWIS: Yeah, I feel like I've played a really solid round.  I feel like the game is where it needs to be.  I had four putts today I thought I made, especially early on.  The game is where it needs to be.  If I can just get a few more putts to fall it will be there.
Yeah, like I said yesterday, nobody's running away.  It's supposed to get gusty this afternoon, which should help me out a little bit.
Q. Does it just feel different playing around here?  I know it's a special tournament.
STACY LEWIS: Yes.  There are just golf courses that fit you better than others.  I wouldn't [sic] say that this is a golf course that this necessarily fits my eye for some reason, and I don't know what it is.  I couldn't pinpoint one thing.
There are just definitely golf courses you play better on and some you don't.  The fact that -- I've still had some Top 10s, been around the lead.  I think hopefully eventually get a (indiscernible).
Q. Conditions yesterday from today?  Similar?  Different?
STACY LEWIS: Pretty similar.  Front nine the golf course is definitely softer just being early.  And then the back nine played similar to yesterday afternoon.
Q. What are we looking at as a winning score?
STACY LEWIS: I would say usually doesn't seem to go far from about 15 or 16 over four days.  I don't think anyone is running away.  I don't see -- I mean, I'd be shocked if there was a 63 or something like that out there.  I just don't see it given the conditions.
Q. Hear you're getting married soon?
STACY LEWIS: I am.
Q. Is the lucky guy here?
STACY LEWIS: No.  He's going to have some time to himself.  He's getting away from golf for a week.
Q. Got the wedding dress all picked out?
STACY LEWIS: Everything is all planned.  We're good to go.  We're inside of about three weeks, and so to this point everything is done.
Q. (No microphone.)
STACY LEWIS: No, Connecticut.  Doing it pretty small at friend's house.  Should be good.
Q. (No microphone.)
STACY LEWIS: It's right after the British.  Week after the British we're getting married; going to go honeymoon for a few days; go home for a few days; and then go to Rio.  Rio has become the extended honeymoon, which will be a lot of fun.
You know, I'm excited he gets to share in that, too.
Q. What's the week been like for you?
STACY LEWIS: I didn't get in town until Tuesday night.  It's been busy.  I haven't had much time away from the golf course.  Everything has been going on here.  Between sponsor and golf stuff, been spending a lot of the time at the golf course.
Q. You usually stay with family, right?
STACY LEWIS: Sometimes.  I mean, just depends.  This week I'm just in a hotel so I can get some extra rest.
Q. (No microphone.)
STACY LEWIS: They were.  They were out today.  They're right over there in all their pink shirts.  Everybody is getting a little bit older.  All my cousins and everybody is having to work during these first two days.
We'll have more out this weekend.
Q. It's been a while now since you been coming here and drawing the crowds.
STACY LEWIS: Yeah.  I don't even know how many times I've played this golf course, but it's been a lot.
Q. With Lydia leading like that -- you've seen things like this before.  At 19, what does she have that most 19 year olds don't have?
STACY LEWIS: Everything.  I mean, there are not 19 year olds that are doing what she's doing.  I mean, her game is just really solid all the way around and she has a really good temperament on the golf course.  Nothing really seems to phase her too much.
She's been doing it since she was 15, so it's not really anything new to us on tour.
Q. Is Brooke kind of similar in that way?
STACY LEWIS: Yeah.  Brooke is a little bit more raw, I would say.  She's got a little bit more learning to do as far as managing around different golf courses, where Lydia has kind of the mind of a 30 year old.  She thinks her way around the golf course really well.
Brooke gets up there and just smashes it and goes and finds it, which works pretty well on most courses, but I think that's one thing that she could learn on, is thinking her way around a little bit better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT