CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA VS VIRGINIA
December 28, 2019
Joe Reed
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE REED: Coach Brum, he gives me the minus two mark. I don't know, sometimes you just have that feeling when they kick the ball, I had that feeling, no matter where this ball is, I'm going to bring it out. I went with my feeling, and it paid off.   
 Q.  I think he said I'm going to give credit 50 percent you and 50 percent to the protection. Do you agree with that?  
JOE REED: Oh, for sure. It's probably 75 percent them and 25 me. I'm watching film, I'm like, dang, I respect these guys. I have the easy part. I just catch it and run really. They do a great job of blocking, and his scheme is incredible, too. As the ball carrier you're supposed to break tackles, so me breaking one or two tackles, that's what I'm supposed to do.   
 Q.  Are you ready to return some kicks?  
JOE REED: Yeah, I'm ready to go.   
 Q.  How exciting is that for the last time?  
JOE REED: Oh, it's very exciting, especially in this game, in this setting, at Hard Rock Stadium, couldn't ask for a better way to go out, especially returning kicks.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
JOE REED: I did. I probably should have scored on that one, too, so hopefully I get another opportunity like that and finish what I started this time.   
 Q.  Is there any good mojo at the same stadium this year? Does it matter to you?  
JOE REED: You know what, you might be right because I think my second year here I had a pretty good return at hard rock, too. I'm going to go ahead and say on Monday night I'm going to have a big return.   
 Q.  Coming back to this stadium, do you have any flashbacks of that? Have you spent much time on the field?  
JOE REED: Honestly, until this moment, I hadn't even really thought about that, but man, now I'm thinking about it. Man, that's even more reason for us to go out there and ball out and play as hard as we can, knowing that that's where we lost B-Hall. So I'm sure once we get out there we'll have that feeling, but right now that's not really something we're thinking about because we're just happy to see how well he's progressing in his rehab.   
 Q.  Not to be at full strength in the ACC Championship game --  
JOE REED: Yeah, it definitely stunk, but at the same time I think it was the best for the team. I'll take a healthy Billy Kemp over me 50 percent any day of the week. I just had to take a different leadership role from the sideline. When Billy ran off the field after a series, he'd ask me what I saw out there, and I'd tell him, so you know, the competitor in me definitely wanted to be out there, but sometimes it just doesn't work that way, and you have to go with the flow.   
 Q.  Were you close to getting the okay?  
JOE REED: No, I wasn't very close. There wasn't really much I could do that day, honestly.   
 Q.  You mentioned Kemp. What have you seen from him?  
JOE REED: Oh, man, Billy, he's going to be a dog. He can just do anything you ask him to do, man. I call him a Swiss Army Knife. Billy, you can line him up anywhere and he's going to be successful. He can return the ball, as well. I'm excited to see what Billy is going to bring to the table here in the future.   
 Q.  What would it mean to you guys in the program to win this game?  
JOE REED: Yeah, it would mean everything, especially with this being my last game as a Cavalier. You look at the fourth and fifth-year guys, Orange Bowl champions, going out with 10 wins, it would just be a testament to all the hard work we've done.   
 Q.  Do you talk about how much 10 wins would mean?  
JOE REED: We've talked about it a couple times. Actually only one team in UVA history has had 10 wins, and to go out with 10 wins and be in that company would be great and then just raise the bar for UVA football going forward.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you need this win to continue the unbroken growth this season?  
JOE REED: Oh, for sure. We definitely need this win. Even with nine wins right now, just the fact that we know what we're capable of, we definitely need this win.   
 Q.  What do you sense are some of the keys for this game? What do you think you need to do better?  
JOE REED: Yeah, the first thing, it's going to come down to ball security. The team that secures the ball the most is going to have a better chance of winning. That's from an offensive standpoint, and from a defensive standpoint the team that takes the ball away the most is going to have a better chance of winning. So I think this game is going to come down to a lot of ball security, trusting preparation, and go out there and play with confidence.   
 Q.  Could be a shootout. Do you like shootouts?  
JOE REED: Yeah, I'm down for a shootout. We've had our fair share of those, and if that's what it comes down to, I think we're ready.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT