NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 18, 2011
Derrick Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. A lot of people are saying you're a shoe-in for the MVP; what do you think of that?  
 DERRICK ROSE: I wish. I'm just playing to win. If we keep winning, everything will take care of itself. I'm happy I'm on this team. I'm happy with the organization I'm in. Our biggest thing this year is to win a game.   
  
  Q. Got to be flattering to have your name thrown around with LeBron?  
 DERRICK ROSE: It is, being at a young age but I'm just going to stay humble, don't get it get to your head and just play ball.   
  
  Q. When is the next time we get to see you in China?   
 DERRICK ROSE: I think I'm going to be there in August or September. So that's the next time I'll be in China.   
  
  Q. What was your mom's reaction when she heard -- MVP?  
 DERRICK ROSE: She tears up over everything. For them to be cheering that, we have some very good fans, especially in Chicago.   
  
  Q. Talked earlier about how you worked on your shooting the last couple of summers. Where do you want to grow your game from here?  
 DERRICK ROSE: Just add on something every year, if that's a post-up game, you can always get better in everything, shooting, driving the ball, everything. That's something that I really have to think about now.   
 I'm not thinking about the off-season, but like off-season, like what am I going to do to my game to add on to it, like that's what I'm thinking about right now.  
  
  Q. And do you feel like with all of the injuries that you've had and you've played really well, do you feel like you're getting somebody in a trade just by getting Noah back?  
 DERRICK ROSE: It's going to be great when he comes back where he's a guy that can definitely help us out with his energy. He plays hard, passionate about the game. And he wants to win it, and I think that's why we have been so successful because we have got winners on our team where they don't care about their stats or anything. They just want to win a game.   
  
  Q. Getting the MVP --  
 DERRICK ROSE: At the beginning of the season, I just made my goals very high, so that makes me want to work for it. So when I'm in a jam, I think about all of the other players in the league, like all of the other great players, and see what they are doing every day and see how they are working out, or wonder how they are working out, and it makes you want to play hard. Makes you want to work hard. I think I've sacrificed and dedicated my whole life to this game where once again, that's my point of playing this game.   
 If you don't want to be the best, I should definitely retire right now. It just like if you're a reporter, what's the point of doing it if you're not trying to be the best. That's the way I look at it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT