NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2008
Derrick Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  (No. 1 Overall Selection, Chicago Bulls)  
  
  
  Q. John Paxson was just on saying that he doesn't think that you need to come in and contribute right away. I was wondering, do you expect to come in and contribute right away? Do you expect to be a starter?   
 DERRICK ROSE: Yes, yes, I do. Being a point guard and coming in and starting, I have to show a little bit of leadership and let everyone know that I really want to be there.   
  
  Q. With that said, can you just talk about how you're going to fit in with the other guards that Chicago has already?  
 DERRICK ROSE: There's going to be moves and they don't know who is going to be there but the guards they have now are great guards. I've seen them here and there and Ben Gordon but it's a great fit.   
  
  Q. Was there any doubt in your mind that you would be the No. 1 pick? Did it ever go back and forth that you may not have been that guy?   
 DERRICK ROSE: Yeah, I was a little nervous when they came back out, but I always had that in my mind that I want to be No. 1.   
 So it was great hearing my name and being the No. 1 pick.   
  
  Q. The usual distractions, friends, you've only been a year away from high school and friends, how does one deal with that and concentrate on business?   
 DERRICK ROSE: My situation is different. I have a small circle. I have like five people that I really hang with. So it's going to be real tough to try to get a hold of me.  
  
  Q. How does it feel going to a team that is not that far away? Usually the No. 1 pick goes to a team that's many years away; Chicago could be a contender again. How does it feel going to a quality club right now?  
 DERRICK ROSE: It feels great to go in and compete. I'm just blessed to be in that position right now, because a lot of people aren't, and just knowing that we are a few pieces away from really contending as a team, it just makes me happy.   
  
  Q. Cubs going to win the World Series this year?  
 DERRICK ROSE: I'm from the South Side of Chicago so I have to say White Sox.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT