NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 26, 2011
Derrick Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Derrick, can you kind of give your overview of the series and try not to blame yourself too much in the process. 
 DERRICK ROSE: It was me. Turnovers, I guess fouls, if you call it that. If anything, you just learn from it and just try to do better next year. 

 Q. Derrick, what specifically can you learn from it from watching LeBron and Wade and kind of the way they were taking over at the end of the games? 
 DERRICK ROSE: Everything is a learning experience. We're definitely sad that we lost, but if anything, we'll take a lot from it. We'll getting closer as a team, get better, and only thing we can do now is work on our games in the summer and just try to get it next year. 

 Q. What does it say about the Heat that Dwyane Wade can have nine turnovers midway through the third quarter, be almost totally out of the game, but he has LeBron James, he has Chris Bosh? What's that like going against when you shut down a superstar and there are other guys there to help push this team through? 
 DERRICK ROSE: They're definitely a tough team to beat. They play well together, pass the ball. All the other guys know their role on the team. They play defense. Hit shots when they're open. They're a good team; that's why they made it this far. 

 Q. Derrick, along those lines, down the stretch, were you kind of feeling you needed somebody else to help you try to assume the offensive load, assume the scoring load, whatever it might be, if nothing else, just to take a little of that kind of pressure off you? 
 DERRICK ROSE: It is what it is. We ran the plays. They're a good defensive team. If my teammates were open, they would shoot the ball. They were just playing tough defense. At the end, I told you it's on me. Everything is on me. Turnovers, missed shots, fouls. If anything, learn from it. That's all I can do right now. The series is over with. 

 Q. Derrick, I know you don't want to make excuses at all, but by the time the fourth quarters came around and stuff like that, were your legs tired? Were you tired in the series? Did that come into play when it comes to jumpshots or fouling or whatever? 
 DERRICK ROSE: No, I wasn't tired. I was just making dumb decisions, and it cost us this game. If anything, just get better. 

 Q. Derrick, do you think you were fouled on that last shot? 
 DERRICK ROSE: No, I wasn't fouled. If I was fouled, they would have called it, I guess. 

 Q. I don't know if you already answered this already, but a game like this, how do you feel like you can grow from it, learn from it, how it's going to help your career progress? 
 DERRICK ROSE: I'm going to get better. I'm not worried about that. If anything, this is going to make me hungry. Made it this far with this group. My teammates, great teammates. Too bad we couldn't get to The Finals, but we still got a shot next year. I won't take anything back from this year. It's been great. The coaching staff has been great. Organization has been great, the management, ownership, everybody has been great. But I think it's going to make everybody hungry. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Derrick. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT