NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 24, 2011
Derrick Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Derrick, can you describe the last play in regulation from your perspective? 
 DERRICK ROSE: Just tried to get a good look, take the clock all the way down. LeBron played good defense. It was online, but it was just a little bit too short. 

 Q. Derrick, I know you have a basketball game to play, but when you're out there and you're making great plays, and LeBron is making great plays, almost turn into a shootout, do you have any sense of that at all, like you're doing great things, he's doing great things, it's you and him? 
 DERRICK ROSE: Not at all. You're just trying to win. Tonight definitely it was on me. I had two opportunities to end the game. Couldn't do it. If anything, learn from it. Too many turnovers. Really was my fault, but I'm going to learn from it. 

 Q. Derrick, a day earlier Dwyane said in order to beat you guys, they have to cut off the head of the snake, and you. How much pressure do you feel being that that you just have to have it seems like in this playoffs a phenomenal game in this series for the team to win? 
 DERRICK ROSE: It makes you play harder. I know that. As a basketball player, I know if you want to be great, you're going to want pressure. I think that my teammates have confidence in me to go out there and play -- love the way I play. I trust them, they trust me. 
 Tonight was definitely a tough night where they had -- they played great defense I think on both sides. We did, too. But you have to find a way to finish the quarter out, finish the game off in the fourth quarter when we have the lead, and continue to play defense. 

 Q. Derrick, what do you attribute the turnovers tonight for you to? 
 DERRICK ROSE: I really don't know. I guess one of them nights. Losing the ball, careless turnovers. Only thing I can do now is put it behind me and go forward. 

 Q. Derrick, I know you say you are never, ever tired. How difficult is it to play 29 straight minutes at this level you're playing? 
 DERRICK ROSE: It's hard, but it's no excuses right now. Everybody on their team, all the stars on their team is playing the same time. So you have to just play harder and just go out there and make it work. 

 Q. Derrick, how would you describe LeBron's defense on you tonight when he switched on to you? 
 DERRICK ROSE: It's hard where a guy, he's running at top speed, he can easily catch up with you. If anything I was trying to hit my teammates at first, get easy baskets, because I think that they had like Mike Miller, someone sticking like Luol at first. That's when I tried to take things myself, go to the hole and just try to get fouled. 
 But it's extremely hard where a 6'8" guy can easily defend you. 

 Q. Derrick, it's 3-1 now, what's the mood like, I guess, after the game with the guys? It's a tough situation to be in right now. 
 DERRICK ROSE: It's not over. We still have games to play. Thibs talked to us in the locker room about it, where we're going back to play at home, and we have to stay positive, where they are beatable. But we just have to make sure that we play together and the turnovers have to be down, play defense. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT