NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 22, 2011
Derrick Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Chicago Bulls 85
  Miami Heat 96

 Q. Derrick, you guys talked about the need to get easier baskets tonight, what are they doing against you guys defensively? 
 DERRICK ROSE: Just closing in on the paint. Just got to make shots. They're a good defensive team. We're loading in on one side, and going for steals. We just got to find a way to find easier baskets. 

 Q. Derrick, on a night when you guys hold Dwyane and LeBron I think 12-for-29 or 12-for-30 or something like that, how frustrating is that Chris is the one that goes off and drops 30 or something? 
 DERRICK ROSE: It's definitely frustrated. Our will wasn't there tonight, where they still found a way to win playing good basketball, moving the ball to one another, playing easy basketball, I'll say. We just got to find a way to win the next game. 

 Q. Derrick, has it been more of a challenge for you to score on this defense than you thought at the beginning of the series? 
 DERRICK ROSE: No, I'm just trying to make it easy, where they're doubling me every pick-and-roll. So just get the ball out of my hands and try to let my teammates create for others. That's what I'm going to continue to try to do. Sometimes try to beat the double-team and sometimes try to pass and make it easy. 

 Q. Derrick, I know how much you hate turnovers. Can you talk about the steal that they had from you late in the game, and then the charge you had with Wade and how much those bothered you. 
 DERRICK ROSE: Definitely. Definitely. They definitely hurt. I thought I had it. LeBron made a great steal. I was passing it to Luol, and D-Wade stepped in front, took a charge. Can't definitely get any charges. Not right now. Especially towards the end of the game. 
 So just learn from it and try not to do it the next game. 

 Q. Derrick, do you need to try to find a way to assert yourself more in the fourth quarter? You only had two shots in the fourth quarter, what do you think you can do differently? 
 DERRICK ROSE: Just passing. I told you every pick-and-roll they were doubling me. So just got to find a way to sometimes beat it. I've been trying to beat it with the pass. Try to be more aggressive. 

 Q. Derrick, you had talked about how disappointed you were with the easy ones that you missed in Game 2. 
 DERRICK ROSE: Yes. 

 Q. What is it that's going to stick with you after this one that you'll regret, that you'll be thinking about the next day and a half or so? 
 DERRICK ROSE: If anything, you're going to miss shots, but our defense, that was the key of the game, where I think we let them shoot 50%. Something like that, in the playoffs, and we call ourselves a defensive team. That's definitely not going to work against a team like that, where they've got great players and great shooters on their team. 

 Q. Derrick, I'm sure you've been asked this already: What do you remember about the courtship of the Bulls and Bosh? And did you try to sell him? And what did you think of his decision in the end? 
 DERRICK ROSE: With who? 

 Q. Bosh, when he was interested in you guys or considered you guys. 
 DERRICK ROSE: I guess he made the right decision. We're both playing in the Eastern Conference Finals. He teamed up with a great group of guys, where they're still playing good together. They're playing good basketball right now. So I guess he made the right decision. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT