NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 18, 2011
Derrick Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Miami Heat 85
  Chicago Bulls 75 
   
  Q. Derrick, did you feel that they did something to you different, specifically defensively, than in the first game tonight?   
 DERRICK ROSE: If anything, they closed down the lane. But I missed a lot of lay-ups, shots that I normally hit. They just wasn't falling tonight. But if anything, I think we lost this game because our intensity and defense.   
  
  Q. Why do you think that intensity and defense was missing tonight?   
 DERRICK ROSE: I really don't know. We can't afford to go out there and play like this. I know that. They have great players on their team. We let them get easy baskets, especially in transition. We can't do that if we are trying to win this series.   
  
  Q. Derrick, did you anticipate Haslem's minutes that he played tonight? Was that something you guys looked into, him coming in? He played 23 minutes.   
 DERRICK ROSE: I didn't really know. We really shouldn't care who is out there. We still have to play the same way.   
 He came in huge for them. Shooting the ball well, rebounding the ball well. That's something that it was too many hustle plays we didn't get, and led to them scoring the ball and getting easy baskets. We can't afford to let them do that, especially not with this team.   
  
  Q. Derrick, do you feel like you guys got away from playing inside-out basketball? If so, was it their defense, or you guys just settled for jumpers sometimes?   
 DERRICK ROSE: We definitely shot poor from the three. Everybody was missing easy bunnies that we normally hit. Me missing lay-ups, Booze, everybody just missing shots that we normally just -- that's normally just easy for us. This is a series. It's the first of four. We just got to look at film and prepare for the next game.   
  
  Q. Derrick, I know you guys don't expect to bottle up Wade and LeBron every night the way you guys were able to a couple of nights ago. What did you see different from them in terms of the way they were attacking and chasing down the loose balls? They obviously got a lot of rebounds themselves. What was different about those two tonight?   
 DERRICK ROSE: They were going to the rim, getting rebounds, hustle plays, kicking it back out, driving again, getting to the line. They were playing way more aggressive. We just got to pick up our intensity definitely on the defensive end. We made it too easy for them tonight. And they out-hustled us throughout the whole game.   
  
  Q. Derrick, also on kind of following up on that, when you're seeing LeBron defend you, Wade, you're getting a lot of different looks, do you have to adjust within the game or on different defenders, or do you just have to play the same way? How does that affect your game?   
 DERRICK ROSE: I definitely got to try to play the same way, driving. I didn't shoot that many floaters tonight like I usually do, especially against tall defenders. I missed a lot of shots, man, that I normally hit.   
 It was just one of them nights, I guess.   
  
  Q. Derrick, obviously you guys are disappointed in the loss. You've dealt with adversity before in these playoffs. Because of that does that make you feel confident you can go down to Miami and get home-court advantage back?   
 DERRICK ROSE: We're definitely confident. I know we can't wait to go out there and play again. We're the type of team where when things get tough, we stay together. We're not going different ways. Coach always talks about this, where the playoffs is going to challenge you every way possible. And we just got to stick together and know that it's going to be a fun series.   
  
  Q. Did you find it harder to drive? Like you said, the shots weren't falling or was there less room to drive?   
 DERRICK ROSE: I think I was just missing shots, flipping the ball up, not going strong, trying to get fouled. It was just one of them nights.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks, Derrick.   
 DERRICK ROSE: Thanks.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT