NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 17, 2011
Derrick Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Are you surprised by all this attention?   
 DERRICK ROSE: You get used to it.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)  
DERRICK ROSE: Definitely get used to it. It comes with the territory, being able to talk, get comfortable.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the support that the starters have given the second unit. When they're in, you guys are watching and cheering them on.   
 DERRICK ROSE: We know that they have our back. And when we're out, we're on the court yelling, celebrating on the sideline, letting them know we're right behind them. They've been playing great for us.   
  
  Q. Seems like this is a team where everybody really understands their role and they embrace it regardless of what it is.   
 DERRICK ROSE: Yes. They tell you what type of guys we have on the team. We have all -- like a whole new team, except for three or four of us who are still here. The guys that came in, they came in, great veterans. They know their role. They are just trying to win basketball games.   
  
  Q. Everybody keeps talking about Luol's role. What is it like for you sitting on the bench watching him and the second unit?   
 DERRICK ROSE: Luol has been great -- like I said, Luol is my MVP for this year on this team. He's been a great leader, playing through pain, just giving us a lot of energy. He's in great condition. Helping us with his game, like shooting threes, working on his game every day. You see how hard he works, it makes you want to go harder.   
  
  Q. Did you hear what LeBron said, "I'll do anything to even up this series. I'll guard anybody. I'll even guard Derrick Rose if I have to." Are you expecting anything from them? Anything and everything?   
 DERRICK ROSE: Not yet. I really don't know what's going to happen. Especially in the playoffs. Really don't know what's going to happen until the ball is in your hands and you see what's going on, like the first play. Other than that, you know we'll have to come out with a lot of intensity.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible) Takes what the defense gives him, also (Indiscernible)  
 DERRICK ROSE: You do what the game tells you to do. Like last game, it didn't take that much me scoring. My teammates are getting off a lot of shots, giving us a lot of energy. Never know, next game it could be passing. Next game it could be defense. Whatever the games tells you to do, that's what I try to do.   
  
  Q. Derrick, they say it's a huge game for them. But isn't it a huge game for you? In fact, aren't they all just huge games now?   
 DERRICK ROSE: Every game is huge. It's just going to get bigger every game. You just have to be prepared for it. I think we had a great practice today, making sure everybody keyed in and focused in on everything. Everybody was really professional.   
  
  Q. Do you have a Bench Mob T-shirt?   
 DERRICK ROSE: Not yet. (Indiscernible) there are very good fans of the Bench Mob.   
  
  Q. Are you guys prepared for this to be a long series?   
 DERRICK ROSE: We know it's going to be long and hard. We know every game is going to be tough. Especially with the type of players they have on the other team.   
  
  Q. Are you guys having fun? Are you having fun?   
 DERRICK ROSE: I'm having fun, man. All this attention, I'm getting used to it. The city is going crazy over us. We still have a long way to go.   
  
  Q. Has there been any game in the playoffs you've had more jitters than the usual pre-game jitters?   
 DERRICK ROSE: No. Probably in a championship game, or something like that, if we make it there. Not right now.   
  
  Q. Are there times this year where you looked around and thought Tom turned you guys into robots, because you say what he says or think what he thinks?   
 DERRICK ROSE: We always play around saying that. Like we'll be in the locker room, we'll just be talking. We'll catch ourselves like, we sound like him. Damn, we sound like him. We've got to stop. It's all playing around. We know the big goal. We know we have to stick together through all this.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT