NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: HEAT v BULLS
May 16, 2011
Derrick Rose
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DERRICK ROSE: Three turnovers I think in the first quarter. Then I think we got ten total. I think one in the second half. It was tough. You just learn from it, look at the film after practice with coach. Just going through everything.   
 I see the mistakes. It shouldn't happen anymore.   
  
  Q. Derrick, they're a great team, obviously. What do you expect out of them differently in Game 2?   
 DERRICK ROSE: Play aggressive and attack more. If anything, go quicker, probably, in transition. Get the ball up the floor quick so they can't go against our set defense.   
  
  Q. Are you surprised people looking from the outside saying this is one of the most complete defensive games you guys have played, that you guys are looking at the parts you need to improve on?   
 DERRICK ROSE: That's the way we've been all season. We're not satisfied. Every time we feel good about ourselves, something knocks us down. We're trying to keep things going, making sure everybody stays positive, stay right and stay hungry.   
  
  Q. Do you think this is one of the main reasons for this team's success, the focus you've had within yourself?   
 DERRICK ROSE: Definitely. And Coach Thibs, you see how he focuses and prepares for the game, it makes you want to do the same. Stay in the office after the game. Not have a life.   
  
  Q. It makes you not want to have a life either?   
 DERRICK ROSE: Not right now. I have to sacrifice a lot of things.   
  
  Q. Does his approach ever get boring or annoying?   
 DERRICK ROSE: We get used to it now. I swear. Sometimes you are talking and -- you get used to it. You have to live with it.   
  
  Q. What kind of message did you guys deliver to yourselves by handling LeBron and the rest of the Heat last night?   
 DERRICK ROSE: They have great players. LeBron and D-Wade and Chris Bosh, they are great players. We just tried to make it tough. That's the only thing we did. Last night we made sure we closed down the lane, stopped them from penetrating, and shoot jumpshots.   
  
  Q. What does that tell you guys about being successful the way you were?   
 DERRICK ROSE: We have to come out and play with that edge every game. Just totally play with that edge. It gives you so much confidence, especially with this team.   
  
  Q. When the Bulls defense is working, it's like a pack of Dobermans been let loose. Does it feel like everything is just working and attacking when you guys play like that?   
 DERRICK ROSE: It feels great when we are swarming the ball, everybody is communicating, we're getting rebounds, hustle plays, things like that. The fans are into it. They know we're playing hard. It gives us an edge.   
  
  Q. You guys have won a lot of games when you have had to score a lot of games and dominate. But also you've won a lot of games when it was a team effort. How much more satisfying is it to you when everybody is involved?   
 DERRICK ROSE: It makes my job easy, especially when everybody is knocking down shots and playing with that confidence. If anything, our defense starts everything.   
 Just making sure we play hard and we just got to stick together. There's going to be times where it's going to be tough. But we have to make sure we're all on the same page.   
  
  Q. You won in Atlanta, Atlanta won here. Do you expect that to happen in this series with home court not being as significant?   
 DERRICK ROSE: You never know. I think we'll have a good shot of winning the next game if we come out and play with the edge like we did, play with a lot of intensity. We have to be ready with the ball. Next game they are definitely going to go out there and play hard.   
  
  Q. Your penetration getting Miami out of position to get rebounds, you guys obviously had a huge game on the offensive glass. How do you expect them to counter that?   
 DERRICK ROSE: Everybody crashing. They are going to make sure they put bodies on people. We have to try hard. We've been doing this the whole season. I think we rebound the ball pretty well. So guys on our team, we just try hard to go out there and be together, have Joakim and Booze on the rebounding side.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT