US OPEN
September 6, 2005
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English. 
 

Q.  You made him look a little bit mortal today.  How close did you come to getting on top of that match?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, as you said, it was a close match.  But I have to say I didn't feel it so good at all today.  I didn't move so good. Okay, I had a good start.  I was up a break, had my chance there, and was up a break in the second set.  He came back.  I won the tiebreaker.  We had a very close game in the third set.  I had two breakpoints, and one breakpoint he saved unbelievable.  That's the reason why he's No. 1, because he makes these shots, these important shots, when he needs.  This one was a killer in this game, maybe also in the second. I just tried to stay in, to focus on my game, which didn't work out, because my body didn't feel so good today.  I tried to do different things, but I couldn't make it. 
 

Q.  In the crucial game in the third set where he hit the passing shot and saved serve, do you think he was guessing which way to go?  Could he have possibly seen you were going to cover down the line?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  I don't know how many, from ten shots, how many he's going to make.  If he makes ten out of ten, okay.  But this was unbelievable shot.  I mean, I was going for the long line, but this angle was just too good. 
 

Q.  This crowd has been very much behind Roger, but today they were very much behind you.  I think that they wanted to see a match, and you gave them a match.  You've been able to take a set from Roger the last couple times you played him.  Did you feel the crowd helping you, carrying you through to turn this into a four- or five-setter?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah, I mean, they helped me a lot.  There was great support out there.  As I said, I didn't feel so comfortable with my game.  My goal was then I said, "Okay, when you don't play so good, you just have to keep on fighting."  This is what I did today.  I kept fighting for every ball.  I know it's over when the last point is done. I tried to fight for every point, every single point, to stay in and tried to come up with some good shots at the important moments. Of course the crowd help me a lot. 
 

Q.  Not feeling as good as you say you wanted to feel, how much of a factor was that, coming to the net, missing those opportunities?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, I mean, against him, I have to play at a certain limit, and of course, I have to make these shots.  But on the other hand side, I also made very important points, and this is what I also have to see. 
 

Q.  Near the end you hit that screaming forehand from outside the alley.
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  One out of 100 maybe (smiling). 
 

Q.  Could you describe that shot.
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, I was going for it and, I mean, I had the wind behind me.  I mean, I don't know how often I make it; maybe never again.  But can go easily out of the stadium. But just happened once, and just went for it. 
 

Q.  It was so low and hard, we couldn't figure out how the linesman could see whether it was in or out.
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  I was surprised, too.  When I was looking up the screen, it was a good one. 
 

Q.  How do you decide - you like to tap the lines or the court for luck with your racquet - how do you decide how many times you're going tap and when to do it?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  I don't know what to say.  Is a good question, but I can't say how often I do it, I just take my racquet and tap it and... I can't say if it's at 15-All, at 30-All, each second point; I just do it. 
 

Q.  There's no plan?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, no, no.  It's just in my mind. 
 

Q.  And it's for luck?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, then it didn't work out today. 
 

Q.  You played Federer many times before.  You said you didn't have your A game.  Do you think he had his A game today?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  I don't know.  Conditions weren't easy outside.  I mean, the wind was changing a lot inside.  No, I mean, my goal was to go one more level.  This is what I have to do against these players.  I mean, I said from round to round I improve my game a little bit, but today it's not enough just a little bit, I have to do more.  This is what I couldn't do, and that is the reason why I lost. 
 

Q.  Years back there was a campaign, "New Balls, Please."  It was around the time Pete was retiring and it was about who was going to be the next superstar to come out.  At that time, did you ever look at Roger and think, "This is the guy that's going to go that level above"?  You and Tommy have had injuries, Lleyton has played well, but did you see something in Roger's game that could make him perhaps one of the greatest players ever?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, he was also great player before.  But at this time maybe he didn't have so much success, he didn't win so many tournaments.  But then all of a sudden when he won Wimbledon, everything changed.  From this point on he's dominating tennis. 
 

Q.  Are you surprised to see a player dominating at the level he's dominating?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  I mean, we on Earth, but he's playing on different planet. 
 

Q.  Do you think you missed an opportunity to actually go to the next level from your standpoint?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Sorry?  Again? 
 

Q.  Do you think you missed an opportunity today to take your game to the next level?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I won't say that I missed it, but my goal was to go in and try to beat him.  This is why I practice, this is why I go on the court. What I said, to beat this guy, I have to go one more level.  Today, I just couldn't raise it up.  I didn't feel so good.  I didn't move so good.  And especially against these players, you have to be ready, and to move good.  Okay, I have to take my risks, I have to take my chances, is what I did.  Many times it (didn't?) work out. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT