WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 17, 2005
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Nicolas.


Q.  What was the difference in today's match?  How did he make the comeback, I guess?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  What do you mean "difference"?  You have to compare something to something.


Q.  I mean, what was he doing the best that, you know, you couldn't stop?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  I don't get the question.


Q.  I guess what I'm wondering, this is what I thought the difference was:  He broke your serve three times in the third set.  Was that the difference in the match, do you think?  Otherwise, you played him pretty even.

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, I thought it was a very tough match, but I had some problems with my back and I couldn't pick up my game as I wanted to.  And at the beginning it worked out very good.  We had many close games.  And the reason why he's No. 1, because he makes the important points. No, of course, I mean, third set, I had a quite bad start; he broke me straightaway.  I broke him back.  Well, few close points.  And at the end of the day he showed that he's No. 1 because he picked up one more level. I just couldn't make more because I didn't feel good with my body.  And it was bad because I had a big opportunity to beat him.  I knew that I can beat him, and I tried to do everything.  But at the end, it didn't work out.


Q.  You seemed to be frustrated with some of the calls during the match.  Do you think that affected the outcome of the match at all?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, it's on both sides.  I mean, obviously, you think when you get a bad call against you it's very -- it's really bad.  But on the other side, I also had some good calls.  So I think it's even.  I mean, what can you do?


Q.  I noticed like near like at the end of the match you seemed to be like limping a little or something.

NICOLAS KIEFER:  Limping?


Q.  Well, you kind of like were jumping at the end, like shaking off your leg.  Did you have any problems with your leg?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I was just having problems with my back today.  I mean, it was getting worse and worse, but I just tried to focus on my game and tried to hit my shots. And, well, the thing is he made it in three sets.  That's what makes me disappointed, because I had my chances and, unfortunately, I couldn't make it.


Q.  How does he do that?  You and several others have excellent games that, you know, the skill level seems to be the same; yet he's No. 1 now.  What makes him No. 1?  You mentioned that he can pick it up another level at the end of matches.  Is that --

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, I was close to beat him.  I mean, of course he's No. 1 for -- I don't know for how many weeks now, two years, more than two years.  I also had a chance in Wimbledon to beat him, but today was I think my biggest chance. I think I'm on a good way to go back to the top.  And to beat these guys, this is my big challenge.  I mean, he showed today that -- I mean, I had him, it was 6-4, 1-Love, 30-All.  Was long rally, he came in, I missed a passing.  But he goes for it.  That's the thing what you have to do, just go for the ball and not to hesitate and wait for mistakes. I think I am in a good way.  I just have to keep my mind focused on my game, and then I am going to have good results.


Q.  You seem to fare better against him than a lot of other players.  Do you think it's because you go in there with the mindset you can win?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, of course.  That's always true.  When I go on the court, I try to beat my opponent.


Q.  I think maybe a lot of other players might be kind of intimidated by Federer.  You don't seem to be intimidated by him at all.

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, we both have one racquet and have a ball (smiling).  That's what we have to try to make points with. I know that I have my shots.  I know that I can beat him, but maybe still a little bit is missing.  Well, I am going to take a few days off and then try to get ready for the US Open, be 100%, and try to do it one more time.


Q.  What do you think of Roger's return of serve?  I mean, he breaks a lot of guys' serves.  People may not talk about that as much as a ground stroke or something.  What do you think of his return of serve?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  What can you say to this?  I mean, he puts a lot of pressure, for sure, but this is not only him; many players. But what makes him tough, I mean, he lost three matches this year.  He has a lot of confidence.  He knows how to play the big points.  I mean, just have to look at the statistics.  I don't know how many weeks he's No. 1, how solid he's playing. But on the other side, I also know that I have to look what I have to do.  I know that I can beat him.  And for this, I have to rise up one more step, and this is what I try to work on.  I mean, I have 10 more days for the US Open, yeah, and then I try to go for it.


Q.  What was different about the second set from the first set?  The second, not so many things were working for you as in the first.

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, I just have to try to pick up my game, try to stay aggressive.  Most of the time I did it.  And of course you make mistakes, but by doing it, you make it.  I mean, if you don't do it, if you don't make it, it's not easy to make a point.  Especially against these players, you have to make it.  This is what I am gonna work on.  I am pretty positive about it, and I am looking forward.


Q.  You said that your back's been bothering you a little bit.  Has it been bothering you for a while?  How much has it affected your game?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, I felt a little bit since yesterday.  That's not the reason why I lost.  I mean, it was a great match and he made the important points.  But, I mean, to beat these guys, your body has also to be 100%. No, it wasn't easy, but this shouldn't be any - how you say?  - I don't want to take this as a reason I lost.  I lost because he made the big points and I didn't play at my best.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT