WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 4, 2004
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Nicolas.


Q.  You seemed really frustrated out there.  How frustrated were you?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, I had so many chances.  I mean, I played better than last time in Toronto.  And, I mean, I had Love-40.  So many chances.  I had one bad game the first set.  I mean, he played a very good shot.  But if you want to win, you have to take these chances, and he didn't give it to me that easy.  I mean, he had very good shots.  And, yeah, the way the first sent went away, and then second set I had one bad game; I missed two volleys with the net.  And that's how things will happen.  Two or three mistakes here and there, he takes it.  That's the way how it goes.  And unfortunately it is bad because I had my chances, it was clear.  Yeah, and of course I'm disappointed.  It's the third time now in eleven days and, yeah...


Q.  Obviously, he gives a lot of people trouble.  But just because you played him so many times in the past couple of weeks, is there anything about his game that you feel like you can, you know, pick up on or exploit at this point now that you know?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, but is nothing special.  I mean, he is serving good, playing solid from baseline.  And, I mean, I have my weapons, but only thing is I just have to be consistent.  And when I have this, then I beat these guys.  And that's the thing, it's good thing to see what I can still work on and where I have to focus a little bit more.  Of course it was a long trip for me, four weeks.  I played almost every week until the end.  I feel my body, I feel a little tired now.  I have a little cold.  And you never know what it's good for.  Every time there's a reason.  Maybe I get my chance at the Olympics or at the Open.  And, well, of course I'm disappointed I lost, but on the other side maybe it's -- you never know what it's good for.  But I am happy to go home.  Four weeks in America is long time.  It's good enough to go home to see family, friends, and then big rest over there and then go back to Olympics.


Q.  Is that kind of how you're looking at it, almost trying to take positives out of this and say, "Maybe I can use this"?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, of course.  I mean, absolutely.  It's a great start in second half of a season for me.  I mean, honestly, I didn't expect to play that good now.  I still think that I can play much better.  But I also have to keep on focusing on my game.  And I am not here to talk too much; I just have to do my work on the court.


Q.  After you've played him so many times in a row, are you almost looking forward to playing somebody else, or do you want to play him again?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I want to play him again because I know I get my chances, I'll beat him.  Just a question of time.  I mean, it's bad that I played against him second round.  I think if I will have another draw, I could go a longer way.  But this is how it happens.  I mean, last week showed me that I improve my ranking.  Long time I haven't been seeded and now I am getting back to be seeded.  It makes it much easier.  But still you have to play.  Everybody can play tennis.  That's what you see.  Roger dominated the whole year, last two years maybe.  Yesterday he lost to Hrbaty.  But that's how it goes.  Everybody can play tennis.  Everybody wants to win.


Q.  Tell me about that shot he hit at 3-All in the first set.

NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, I mean, it happens.  I mean, I can also do it when maybe I close my eyes and hit it.  I mean, if he does it 10 out of 10, I tip my hat.  But I think he won't do it.


Q.  Obviously, since he ended up getting the break, it seemed like it was a big thing.  Did you feel any momentum switch for him like he knew he kind of got lucky on that shot?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, of course he also knew it.  But, I mean, if I take my chances, I mean, I had breakpoints.  If I take it, if I make a break, it's another story.  This is what I said I have to work on.


Q.  He hasn't lost serve in his three matches.  Tell me about, you know, obviously you said you had your chances.  He's also coming up with a big serve when he needs it.  Tell me about facing his serve and what he pulls off at the right time.

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, I played him many times.  I know where he's serving now, and there's no secret.  I had good returns.  I had my chances.  I had so many close games.  I'm getting closer and closer, but it's frustrating to say every week "I'm getting closer and closer."  As I said, for me, it doesn't make sense to talk; I mean, I have to do it on the court, and this is what counts.


Q.  You hadn't played him before the summer here.  What do you see in him?  He's a guy that he has a good game, but do you think he has that high confidence level going, too, where he can come back from Love-40, that kind of stuff?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, this you have to ask him.  But I know that everybody thinks that they can beat him.  And, I mean, there's no secret why should he be so good.  I mean, as I said, Roger dominated everything and now he's losing to Dominik; he's playing great tennis.  Men's tennis is close.  Everything is possible.


Q.  What's been the turnaround for you this summer?  Why have you been able to play so well this summer?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, I am still believing that I can play my best tennis.  I feel good.  I am fit.  And, I mean, it's in every job, when you win matches, when you write a good story, you get confidence.  When I play good tennis, I get confidence.  When I win matches, I get confidence.  It's the same.  When you have great article, somebody comes up to you and says, "Hey, great story," I think you feel good and then try to make another one.  It's the same with me.  I mean, when I win my match, I feel good, and I get confidence and then I don't just -- don't think; I just do it.


Q.  All my stories are good.

NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah (smiling)?


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT