ROGERS CUP
July 27, 2008
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  R. NADAL/N. Kiefer
6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You played Nadal today. You played Federer in Halle. How would you assess the difference between playing the two men? 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I mean, I not easy to compare because Halle was on grass court and today on hard court. I think in the past few weeks I improved my game. I picked it up one more level. 
 This is for me the most important thing, to see that I can still do something and still improve. 

 Q. It seemed the majority of the points that you were winning were on your first serve. Perhaps if you had been able to maintain a higher first serve percent that would have kept you in had the match. Were you trying to keep a high percentage, or you were you just trying to hit out outright winners on your first serve? 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I mean, first of all, the conditions haven't been so easy today. We had a lot of wind. I mean, I think I played the same tennis yesterday. Yesterday was enough to beat my opponent. 
 Today I had to play a little bit better, or maybe much better, to make my points. When I played aggressive and when I came into the net I made most of the points. Some points were very close and I didn't make them. That's the difference. 

 Q. Rafa is on the verge of taking over Roger for the No. 1 spot. Why do you think he's just so unbeatable right now? 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I don't know. I mean, if I would have the solution I would change it, but so far I didn't find a little thing. I have to keep on working.

 Q. What aspect of his game did you find most difficult to overcome? 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I mean, it's not only my serve, he was struggling with his game. I think also the rest -- everybody tries to beat him, but I mean, he's a great competitor and he never gives up. 
 From this point of view we have the same style, but it's not easy to play against a left hander.

 Q. You've played Rafael three times already this season. Is there anything prior to going into this match that you adjusted in your personal game, something you thought maybe, I won't do that again that you learned from your previous games, or did you have a specific game plan for this particular player?
 NICOLAS KIEFER: No, of course each win is good for confidence, but each time you lose you learn much more out of it. I think even today I could learn a lot out of this loss. 
 On the other side, I mean, James Blake, I played against him three times and I never beat him. This time I beat him. I hope the day will come. I'm not that old, so I think I have a few more years left. One day it's my goal to try to beat him.

 Q. When you play a player more than once, do you adjust your game card according to the player, or no? 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Every time you play somebody you find some small things. It's just a matter of putting everything together at the same time.

 Q. Some players, when they've been on the tour for a while, find it difficult to cope with all the travel and all that's necessary to play at such a high level. What is your motivation and desire to do all this? Where do you get it from, and how do you keep it?
 NICOLAS KIEFER: First of all, I made my hobby into my profession, and I still have to compete. That's the most important thing, I think. After the injuries I had, especially after my wrist injury, I couldn't play for one year. It took a lot energy out of this, because each time I step on the court now I try to enjoy it much more and have more fun and relax more. 
 As I said, I still enjoy traveling. So far it keeps on going. I mean, it's not easy sometimes to travel with your two bags, but as long as you enjoy it it's good. 

 Q. You had five double faults this game. How would you rank this game compared to your others throughout the tournament? 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Yesterday I had maybe six, but I won, so...
 I think I shouldn't look only at my game today, I should see the whole week in general. I think this was a big step forward for me. This is how I have to look at it, not only the game today. 

 Q. You've had a chance to play Nadal on hard courts and clay this year. Obviously clay is considered to be his best surface. Talk a little bit about the difference?
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Grass court, also.

 Q. Sorry, yes. Can you talk about the differences, and how tough is he playing right now on this surface? 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, I mean, I lost on clay, I lost on hard court and I lost on grass court. So maybe I should try to go indoor. Last option. Indoor season is coming soon. Maybe we can talk after.

 Q. The schedule this year is like never before with so many big tournaments packed close together. Do you think that will provide opportunities for other players and maybe titles could be shared around?
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Yeah, maybe. As you said, it's a very tight schedule, especially now with big events. We have Toronto, Cincinnati, Olympics, US Open. So many big events coming was it's, of course, not easy. 
 Most important thing is to stay healthy and look on your body, and this is something I learned also over the past years. Before I was playing a lot of tournaments, but now I just try to look on my body every time I wake up to see how it goes. 
 Some days you're not feeling so good and you feel better to stop not to play too much.

 Q. Congratulations on your effort. 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: A thank you. First person that appreciates it.

 Q. One thing I wanted to find out, is int eh women's game, as you know, Clijsters and Henin quit in their mid-20s. Is there something in the men's game? We have more athletes that are 30 and above. Why is that not the case with the women's tennis? 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, women's tennis is totally different story. Well, I don't want to talk about women's tennis because it's not my job, I think. I focus on my sport. I think it's much easier to talk about this.
 Honestly, I don't know. 

 Q. Are you ready to play Simon one more time? 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, I mean, two days left, right? I mean, I was running a few meters this week, but I think I will recover good and be ready for Cincinnati. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT