TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 21, 2001
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.


Q.  Nicolas, could you describe your relationship with Tommy Haas now. 

NICOLAS KIEFER: It's a great relationship.  I mean, we are all the time in contact and we also play in doubles couple times.  Last week we play doubles, this week we play doubles.  Also during the summer we try to play doubles.  We are good friends. 


Q.  Was there some strain between you at some time?

NICOLAS KIEFER: What is strain?


Q.  Your relationship was not so good. 

NICOLAS KIEFER: Everybody said it not good, but we have a good relationship. 


Q.  Can you talk about the conditions in the stadium today. 

NICOLAS KIEFER: Talk about something different.  Well, it's not easy to play in this condition.  I was happy that I play on Center Court.  I think outside is much more wind.  But still was terrible outside.  And, I mean, I didn't feel good there.  The most important thing is just to come over to win this match, and this is important for me. 


Q.  Are the injuries pretty much behind you at this point?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Yeah, everything's fine. 


Q.  When you first played doubles with Tommy several years ago, you had a good tournament in Stuttgart.

NICOLAS KIEFER: Yeah, right. 


Q.  Then you didn't play so much for several years.  Why did you decide to get back together with him?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, there was a time we were just young and they offered us a wildcard.  So we took the wildcard and we played very good, and we also played good  singles.  And we decided to concentrate more on singles.  That's the reason why we both didn't play so many tournaments.  Then from last year on, we said we should try to play a little more doubles because it can help our game.  That's the reason that we come together again, to play more doubles.


Q.  Who plays the deuce court?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Tommy.  Was Tommy last time. 


Q.  You had to think about that. 

NICOLAS KIEFER: Yeah.  Because it doesn't matter where we play, deuce court or advantage court.  We both play good from both sides so...


Q.  How would you describe your doubles style?

NICOLAS KIEFER: My doubles style?


Q.  The team, does it have a style of play?

NICOLAS KIEFER: I mean, just a solid serve, solid volley.  That's it.  So we don't have it, we have to work on it.  We have a solid serve but not a solid volley.  (Laughing.)


Q.  Where did you get the hat?

NICOLAS KIEFER: It's my own hat.  It's my nickname. 


Q.  How did you get that nickname, Kiwi?

NICOLAS KIEFER: It's a long story, long time ago when I was maybe ten years old.  My first or second or third coach gave me this name, and from this point on it just continued like this and went on.


Q.  He wasn't a New Zealander, was he?

NICOLAS KIEFER: No, he was German.


Q.  Does it have something to do with the fruit?

NICOLAS KIEFER: I like this fruit.  Lot of vitamins.  (Laughing.)


Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your next match, tough draw with Pete in the next round?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Yeah, I mean very tough draw, one of the toughest I could have.  Could have picked Pete or Andre.  And, well, last week I had two matches and then I had to play Andre.  He won the tournament.  Hopefully, I can do it tomorrow, the day after tomorrow against Pete.  He's a very tough player.  He's the best player we have on this planet at the moment, except -- I mean Andre and Pete, and for sure I have to play much better than I did today.   Last week, I didn't play good tennis against Mardy Fish, then I played a great match against Andre.  Hopefully, I can do the same  -- I can make him angry. 


Q.  Never a good time to play somebody like Pete, but is it a little better getting him early in the tournament as opposed to, say, the quarters or later, once he's had a few matches under his belt?

NICOLAS KIEFER: On the one side, it's good to play early against Pete.  But on the other side, I would like to play in the final against him because I've never been in a final of a Super 9 tournament. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT