TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 15, 2001
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Nicolas.  
 
 
Q.  Although you lost that match, do you think that's another example this week of your game progressing, the way you played this week?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah, for sure.  I mean, my game's getting better and better.  You could see today.  He was up 6-4, 5-4, serving for the match.  I tried to stay in because I knew I could break him because I have good returns.  I played against him a couple times.  I broke him 5-All, then I won the second set.  I had my chance in the third set.  But it was a great match, it was very close. 
 
Q.  Just how well is he playing at the moment, do you think? 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  I think he's hitting the ball very good.  He has very good groundstrokes, actually good serve.  It's tough to beat him, but I almost did it today.  For sure, I'm going to try next week.  
 
Q.  What do you gain in particular being with Sven?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  The whole game is getting better and better.  The serve is getting better, groundstrokes, volley.  I try to go a little bit more to the net.  Against Andre, it's not easy because he has good groundstrokes.  It's tough.  
 
Q.  And going into this year, what realistically were you looking to achieve?  Just steady improvement?  Did you have set targets?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  I just want to improve my tennis, to get better and better.  When I improve my tennis, I get better in the ranking.  It goes up every time. 
 
Q.  What aspects of the game do you think you need to lift to another level?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  I have to try to come more into the net.  I have lot of chances and I don't take them. 
 
Q.  What do you think long-term your prospects might be? 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  My goal is to get back to the Top 10.  I've been in Top 10 a long time.  Well, I got a couple injuries.  I have to fight back for this.  
 
Q.  How difficult do you think that's going to be? 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Oh, it's not easy because there's so many new players coming up, and all the players are playing great tennis.  It's going to be a long time, but hopefully not. 
 
Q.  Do you think you have the sort of game which could, in fact, do pretty well at Wimbledon, on the grass?  What do you think of playing on grass?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  I like to play on grass.  I also won a tournament on grass in Halle.  First I want to focus on the next couple weeks and we can talk about this later.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT