US OPEN
September 7, 2000
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Nicolas. 

Q. You served for both the first and the third set. What was it that kept you from
being able to get through those?

NICOLAS KIEFER: No, it wasn't trouble. I mean, first of all, I have to say it was a
great match. From both of us it was a great fight. Well, I served for the set at 5-3, in
the first set, 5-3 in the third set. It wasn't trouble with my serve. Marat played great
returns. I was down so often Love-40. I won so many games out of it. I think it just
happened. I can't change it anymore. I had great returns, too. I broke him a couple times.
It was a good match. 

Q. The points were so back and forth. The match was back and forth. What did you think
after the first set would win this match, what would it take to win it?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, it's best-of-five match. So many things can happen. For sure
Marat had a great year so far, and he played a lot of matches, and I hadn't so many
matches this year. I just started to play in August, a couple weeks ago, play some
tournaments. I need some more matches to get back to my old rhythm. Sure, I mean, I lost
the first set. I was up 5-2. I lost a couple games in a row. I fight back very good. I won
the second set 6-4. I was up 5-3 serving for the set. There was a tiebreaker, very tight
tiebreaker. Well, he hit a great shot. Just like this maybe (indicating small). 

Q. Did you have an overall strategy about playing him?

NICOLAS KIEFER: I think it's not easy to have a strategy against Marat because he hits
every ball, he goes for every shot. As soon as I get to the T line, he goes for it. I have
to keep him moving, what I did.

Q. Are you pleased with the way your game has rebounded after your injury?

NICOLAS KIEFER: I mean, it's getting better and better. It's not perfect. I'm happy to
be back. Well, these couple matches, five matches, helped me a lot. I'm ready for the last
three months of the year. Hopefully I can do good. 

Q. Reflecting on the tournament, can you feel some satisfaction overall in the way that
you played?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, I started very good this week. I won four sets first round, then
two three-setters. I beat Magnus. Especially these two guys, Magnus and Marat, they are
the guys who played the best tennis so far for the last eight months. They changed week by
week winning the tournaments. Both of them had great seasons so far. Well, I can say I
beat Magnus and almost Marat. It was a very close match. For sure next time I'm going to
get a revenge.

Q. Do you think Marat is ready to win the whole thing?

NICOLAS KIEFER: I think so, because the way he plays, I think his confidence is getting
much bigger and bigger. He played a lot of matches this year. He had a great season. For
sure, he has a great chance to get in the final. He also beat Pete a couple weeks ago. I
think he has a good chance, good chance for him to win.

Q. How would you compare him to Sampras?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, he's much younger. He didn't win so many Grand Slam tournaments.
He's one of the New Balls Please.

Q. There have been those who project him as being the future No. 1. Can you see that
for him?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, he has a good chance. If he wins here, he's getting close. 

Q. I'm just talking about talent-wise, his all-around game. Does he have the kind of
game that could be a No. 1 player in the world?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, I can say so far, from the season, yes. But I don't know how he's
playing indoors. I think with his serve, he has a good game for indoor season. We will see
what's happening in the last couple weeks. 

Q. Is his concentration his weakness? He's played so many long matches already. Were
you thinking that was a way you could get to him?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Again? 

Q. Maybe his concentration, have you noticed that he has lapses in his concentration?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Yeah, sure. I mean, you could see a couple matches before, he had a
couple five-set matches. Sometimes he loses concentration. I could take this little chance
in the second set, and also in the first set and third set. I was a little bit unlucky. He
had some great shots. That's the way how it goes.

Q. Did he surprise you at all in any way?

NICOLAS KIEFER: I expected a very hard fight against him because I saw him playing many
matches now. I knew that he goes for every shot. He has a great serve. I also knew that I
have to serve very good because his serve is not easy to return. I know that I have a
great return. Well, also with his serve, he's serving every time over 200 or 210. It's not
easy. I have to concentrate and focus on my serve. That's the most important thing.

Q. Those are the things you expected from him. What about the things you didn't expect
that you saw today? Anything at all?

NICOLAS KIEFER: No. Well, he hit a couple great volleys. 

Q. Today was the draw of the Davis Cup. Will you play Davis Cup next year?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Yeah, I heard already that we play against Romania at home. I think
it's a good match for us. Yeah, I'm ready to play. Hopefully we're going to win. 

Q. I interviewed Boris Becker at the draw. He was speaking, reflecting on Davis Cup
play, saying there's nothing really like it. How do you feel about Davis Cup? How does it
differ than a Grand Slam or Masters Series event?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, you play for your country. This year, it wasn't easy for me to
play Davis Cup because I wanted to focus on the big tournaments, the Super 9 tournaments.
Then I got injured. It didn't work as I wanted to do. We have the Olympics coming up.
Yeah, next year I'm ready for the Davis Cup. I'm happy to play with the German team. 

Q. Representing your country, is that special?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Yeah, sure, you're representing your country. You have so many German
fans. Somehow you want to give it back to them. They try to - how you say - if you have a
match, they try to be behind you. It's just great atmosphere to. To play a home match,
it's great.

Q. When did you decide to play next year?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, I mean, I'm ready to play. It's just a question of the German
Federation wants me to play. 

Q. How you can beat Marat?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, not a special tactic. I tried to make the last point. I was up
5-3 serving, won the second set, 5-3 serving. Sure, I got my next chance. I tried to play
much more aggressive. I think it was a great match. It was a very tight match. He won
today. He's a winner. Can be just one winner. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT