US OPEN
September 5, 2000
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Questions for Nicolas.  
 
Q. How many times did you win this match today?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: One time. 
 
Q. Only one?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Last match point, that's all. Maybe two. I mean, I saw it afterwards on
TV. The ball was clearly out. That's what's happening. I was happy that I won finally in
four sets. You know, it's never easy because you are relaxed after. I went up with my
hands, I was so happy that I did it. The linesman said, "Deuce." I was a little
shocked. I had breakpoint. My string break. I had to take a new racquet. All these things
are not easy. I think I deal good with this. I'm happy to beat him.  
 
Q. What did you do differently facing Magnus from the Australian Open?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I think he's playing great for the last nine months. Everywhere he
goes, he goes to the finals, semifinals, he wins. He's a very tough player. He's a great
athlete. Well, I played great match today. I played my game. I didn't give him the chance
to play his game. That's what you have to do.  
 
Q. How was the weather a factor? 
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: It was strange. First two sets was so much wind. I had also to play
with the wind, not against Magnus, but also with the wind. In the third set and fourth
set, when the sun was out, not too much wind. But that's what happened. You have to deal
with it.  
 
Q. Were you particularly pleased with the way you kept your emotions under control
twice in that fourth set? 
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, I mean, there were very bad calls that, sure, on one side, the
two balls, they were out, and they both were on the line. Maybe it's the bonus of the top
players, I don't know. But finally I will get it soon, hopefully. No, I have to control
myself. If I throw my racquet or do anything else, I can't focus on my game. 
 
Q. You do seem to be playing in an extremely relaxed manner. You've not always been
like that. You look very controlled, very calm. 
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Thanks. 
 
Q. Is that something that you feel?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, I try to relax, not to show too many emotions. I want to focus on
my match. I want to focus on, how you say, the way I want to play, what I thinking about.
I try to play my game.  
 
Q. Is it possible that in the past, with all the kind of pressures you felt being the
No. 1 German player, that you haven't been able to relax as much as you would like to, and
now you've grown up a bit more and added to your game?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, sure, you learn year-by-year or week-by-week. I mean, two, three
years ago, I would have thrown the racquet from one side to the other side maybe. But now
you learn, you get older, you try to behave a little bit more.  
 
Q. You've had a recent coaching change. How is that going? What's the difference in the
style?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: It's going good, obviously. 
 
Q. What is the difference in Sven's style as opposed to Bob's?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Every person is different. Sven is a little bit younger. He had great
players, too, like Rusedski and Stich. He knows what he's doing. He with help me for my
next step. 
 
Q. Does his being younger make him more of a friend maybe at all for you?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, maybe he likes the style of the younger players. I mean, Bob was
on tour for many years, over 20 years. He was with (inaudible) together. Maybe he liked
this style. Everybody knows what he's doing or what he wants to do. 
 
Q. Have you been affected at all by all this UN stuff going on?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I tell you, I had very bad night. There were so many bomb attacks, I
had to change hotel yesterday. It was only stress for me. I couldn't relax one minute
since my match with Schalken last week. 10:00 they told me I had to change hotel.
"Come on, leave me one night here." Next morning I had to find another room. I
didn't find any room because we are three person, we have to find three rooms. Finally I
did it. I think tomorrow is the same thing again when Mr. Clinton is going. 
 
Q. You had to switch hotels?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Yes. 
 
Q. You went to the Waldorf? 
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: W. 
 
Q. You were at the UN Plaza?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Yes. 
 
Q. Did they tell you why you had to leave your room?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I mean, there was so many bomb attacks, it makes afraid. I don't want
to stay in there if something is going to happen. 
 
Q. What does the future of this tournament look like for you?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I haven't been so often in the second week of a Grand Slam. It's my
first time quarterfinal. I try to do better sometime. I think every match is very
important in the quarterfinal. You have to focus on every match. I think it's something
special to be in the second week. 
 
Q. Would you regard it as a very important breakthrough for you to get to a semi of a
Slam? Is that an important part of the building process of making you a better player?
 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Sure. But I'm looking forward to play good my next match. I think that
I can do it one time. It's just a question of the time, when I do it, when I break through
the semifinal. I'm working hard. Also when I'm injured, I'm working on my fitness. Doesn't
matter what part of my body. I'm working hard. I try to go my way.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT