US OPEN
September 3, 2000
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions in English.  
 
 
Q.  Your form has obviously taken a nice little up-turn of late after a disappointing year. 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, it wasn't disappointing.  I started off very good and I was injured for three months.  I didn't play tennis.  It takes a long way to get in the old rhythm, to get in your old game.  I'm happy that it happened now.  Step-by-step I feel better and better, feel much more comfortable on the court.  I was practicing hard for the last two months.  I'm happy that I get it back now.  
 
Q.  When did you become free of the injury problems?  When did you become totally fit again?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, I mean, maybe at the starting of the hard court season, Toronto, Cincinnati.  I could play without pain.  Then I felt that I need a long time.  Well, I started very good in Washington.  I played semis over there.  I had a very tough match against Alex Corretja, then I came here, practiced one week.  I think from match to match it's getting better and better.  My confidence is getting better, too.  I'm looking forward to play good next round. 
 
Q.  It's obviously coincided with working with your new coach.  Can you tell us how things with Sven got started, what you've done together?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  It's a new relationship.  You can't compare it to girlfriend, but we have to talk a lot, we are working for five, six weeks together now.  It takes a long time to get together.  He has some ideas what he wants to do with me.  I have some ideas what I want to do better in my game.  We work together and we find the same way.  
 
Q.  It started Gstaad?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, here.  Well, not here. 
 
Q.  In the States?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  First tournament in the States. 
 
Q.  When did you talk with Sven about hooking up together?  After Wimbledon?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  After Wimbledon, after Gstaad. 
 
Q.  Is he different to other coaches you've worked with?  You worked with Bob. 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, he's a little bit younger.  
 
Q.  So you have a rapport in that respect?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  I mean, he has a different mind.  I mean, he coached a lot of players like Rusedski, Stich.  I think he knows what to do on the ATP Tour, on the men's tennis.  I think that he can help me for the next step.  I'm ready for it. 
 
Q.  Could you just remind us of the injuries that you had this year?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  This year?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah, I mean, it started in Indian Wells, Key Biscayne, maybe also after Rotterdam.  I played good in Dubai, won.  I went to Rotterdam, London, felt very tired.  Bob, he wants me to play every time with some pain killers.  That's the reason why I also stopped working, because he wants me to play with injuries all the time.  It didn't work good for me.  So at one time, I had to stop working with him.  I had a very long injury.  I started playing some in Roland Garros because I just needed some matches.  I wanted to get ready for the grass court season.  It didn't work good, but I have to find my rhythm.  Well, it took a very long time, maybe if you see it from March to August.  It's a long period what I missed.  Now it's getting better and better slowly.  I'm happy.  
 
Q.  What was the problem?  What was the injury problem?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, I twisted my ankle a couple of times.  It was a ligament which was gone in two parts. 
 
Q.  But you also felt fatigued, tired?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, no.  After Rotterdam, I was very tired.  I was thinking about not playing a couple tournaments, just take time to recover and to get ready for next tournaments.  Then I had to play Indian Wells, Key Biscayne because this is Super 9 tournaments.  I came there, I had no preparation, I was tired, but I had to play.  I just went there, tried to get some practice, I lost, then everything happened.  But I learn out of this.  I'm getting in good shape again.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT