US OPEN
August 29, 2000
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Nicolas.  
 
 
Q.  Had a little scare in the third set but managed to prevail.  In hindsight, do you feel pretty good about today's match?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Sure.  I was struggling in the third set.  I don't know what happened, the toilet break.  I had a good first and second set.  I made very important breaks.  He had a good third set.  If I forget this third set, it's a quite good match.  I knew it was going to be very hard against him, because he brings every ball back.  I had to fight hard, and I did it, and that's important. 
 
Q.  The ability to get Loved like that and come back, does that give you a sense that you can recover?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, I would prefer to win in three sets.  I started very good.  He played a couple of good shots and I didn't pay attention, I lost my concentration a little bit.  I had a good start in the fourth set, went up 4-1, serving for the match at 5-3, he had a good game, then finally I won.  It's just important to win.  I don't care how.  I just want to build up my confidence and my game.  That's what's important for me. 
 
Q.  Is it hard to keep your concentration in this atmosphere? 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  It's a great tournament here.  The atmosphere is great.  Everything is a little bit louder because of the planes and everything like this.  I think the spectators are great.  It's a Grand Slam.  You have to play best-of-five sets.  It happens in every match.  Everybody is going to lose one set.  That's tennis.  That's a Grand Slam.  
 
Q.  Your name often comes up among the list of great young players as the next generation in this sport.  Do you feel a sense of that?  How does that make you feel?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, I mean, it's a compliment of the ATP and of everybody who says the new generation.  I mean, for sure, Agassi and Sampras, they are about 30.  I think they're going to have a couple more years, but then everything is going to change.  Now you can see that we have a lot of new names like Safin, Ferrero.  Many new players are coming up.  That's good for tennis.  It's great.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT