ROGERS CUP
July 26, 2008
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  N. KIEFER/G. Simon
6-7, 6-3, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Been pretty long since a final, and long time since a title. How are you feeling? 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: No, I mean, I'm very happy with the way I was winning today. I didn't play my best tennis, but in the important moments I could pick up my game and I was playing pretty good. 
 Well, I mean, when I was young I think I was going more for finals or for titles, and now it's most important thing for me to be healthy. Just every day I wake up and I feel good and I can compete. That's what I try to do. 
 It wasn't easy after a few tough matches here, but right now I'm in another nice final. I think first one in a Masters Series. Looking forward for tomorrow.

 Q. You feel that maybe after all eight years of not winning a title that it means even more to be able to do what you've done this week?
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I don't know. I mean, I wouldn't say -- Andre always told me, As long as your hips are okay and you can run, you should be fine. I still have those words in my mind. 
 No, it's just a great day, but now I have to focus on tomorrow. 

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about how long this match was? Did you get tired out there, and how do you feel right now physically?
 NICOLAS KIEFER: No, I'm feeling pretty good. I mean, I wouldn't say I would run back to the hotel. I prefer to take the car. No, I think it was a great match, great entertainment. It was great out there. We had some tough rallies. I was running a lot, but this belongs to my game. 
 I mean, I'm crossing fingers for my grandmother that she's happy with me that I beat a French guy. She's my biggest fan and watching all my matches. I think tomorrow when she wakes up she has a big smile on her face.

 Q. Your career can almost be divided into two halves: Before the injury and the one we're in now. In this half of your career, what are the goals both short- and long-term for you? 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I mean, this year it was my goal to go to the Olympics. I know time is running against me, but it's my third Olympics. I'm looking forward for this one. Once I qualified I knew that I could set up new goals. 
 I came early here. I mean, I wouldn't lie if I would say in the beginning I would get to the finals. I tried to prepare as much as I could, and wasn't easy with my foot injury. I'm still struggling a little bit. 
 All I can do is go out there and fight, and that's what I try to do at the moment. I try to do my best. I know after Cincy I have one week off and after go to the Olympics; after Olympics I have one week off and after go to the US Open. So many highlights coming up, and I just try to focus on this.

 Q. How do you feel about Nadal and Murray?
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, I hope that they have a long night here and then short sleep. It can become a little bit better. But in a way, of course it's going to be a tough one. They are playing a very good, high level. Of course, I have to pick up one more level. 

 Q. You said at the beginning of the week you wouldn't really have expected to make the final. When did you get the sense that you were playing really well and that you could make a deep run here?
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Each tournament I go, each tournament I try to compete and do my best. I had a very slow start in the beginning, but then I played better and better. 
 Of course I played up and downs, but this is normal. At the end the day it counts if it's a victory or a loss. All depends how you play, how you move, and how you feel. 
 I mean, the most important thing is also by playing bad to win. This is tough one. If you play good and win it's easy. Sometimes you have to get through tough games. 

 Q. Two questions: Has your doubles partner been decided for the Olympics, Kohlschreiber or Schuettler?
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Not yet. I think at the moment looks like Kohlschreiber. I don't know if Ranier has qualified yet. I think we will have a conversation and Patrick will decide. Of course I'm going to play doubles, I just, at the moment, don't know with who. At the moment looks like Kohlschreiber.

 Q. Tomorrow, if you play Nadal, you've just recently played him at Wimbledon. The surfaces is maybe to your advantage. 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: This is my advantage here? I thought it was Wimbledon, but...

 Q. Think positive. 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Yeah, I'm always thinking positive. 

 Q. What have you learned from that match that you would do differently tomorrow if you play him?
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, I mean, I played against him a few times this year. I think three times so far. I mean, after win you don't learn so much, but after each loss you can learn so much more. 
 Many things I can do better, improve, but I think these are also the challenges you are practicing and living for: to play against the best players in the world. If it's Roger or if it's Rafa it's never easy, but you try to compete and try to do your best. 

 Q. Have you seen the Cincinnati draw yet? If you have, what was your reaction when you saw the first round?
 NICOLAS KIEFER: It was okay because I beat him. 

 Q. Is the match going to be different? I know you're not looking at that yet, but talk about that. It's a strange event. You play in the semis and then first round next week. 
 NICOLAS KIEFER: That's how it is, huh. I can't change it. I have to take it how it comes. I think we should talk about tomorrow, and then after the finals we can talk about Cincinnati. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT