EUROCARD OPEN
October 26, 1999
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ATP:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Jurgen Dess is our trainer.  He's going to give you a few words just to explain what the extent of Nicolas' injury is, then we'll take questions for Nicolas.  
 
JURGEN DESS:  Obviously, Nicolas sprained his left ankle in his match.  We knew that in history he sprained his ankle already in Basel two weeks ago.  We just made another MRI in the hospital here because our concern was that there was some further injuries to his tendons which are stabilizing this joint.  Nothing happened there, so this was all right.  But still he has a slight tear of some of his ligaments in his left ankle, and he also sprained a capsule in his left ankle.  It's very questionable if he can play the next week in Paris.  For sure he has to take at least a week off until the acute inflammation is settling down, and then, hopefully, with some good treatment, he might be able to play Paris.  Like I said, it's still very questionable.  
 

Q. But Hannover looks okay, that far ahead? 
 
JURGEN DESS:  From that far ahead, with some good treatment, I guess he could be all right for Hannover.  
 

Q. What exactly happened as far as you were concerned?  We saw you seemed to slip.  Can you tell us from your point of view what happened?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah.  I was up 5-3, 15-All, he played cross-court with backhand.  I actually went over there.  I wanted to hit the ball; I wanted to go back.  I twisted my ankle.  I couldn't walk anymore.  It was very painful.  Yeah, it was very bad that it happened.  
 

Q. There's still a chance you could play in Paris next week.  How upsetting is it for an injury like this, at this particular time, when everything is coming to such an exciting climax this year?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah, I mean, I played very good tennis last few weeks.  I am very disappointed because I knew that I have a good chance to go very far in this tournament.  Especially here in Germany, I want to show the spectators how good I am.  Yeah, then it happened.  Yeah, I'm really disappointed.  
 

Q. And with you having played yourself into a position where you were in great shape to qualify for Hannover, how frustrating would it be now if you were to miss out? 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah, for sure it was a good chance to go much further for Hannover.  Now I think the chances are getting worse and worse.  Hopefully I'm ready in two weeks.  I don't know what's going on next week, but I think I need a rest now, I need good treatment, then we will see what's happening.  
 

Q. Were you originally planning to play either Stockholm or Moscow?  I can't remember. 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah, I was planning to play Moscow.  
 

Q. But, of course, the points there are much less than either here or Paris. 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah, sure.  But, I mean, I wanted to play good all the three tournaments.  Now one is gone.  Next one is gone for sure.  We will see what's happening in the next few days. 
 

Q. Is it worse now than it was after Basel?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yes, it's much more painful.  
 

Q. I assume you won't be taking any risks, though?  You won't play until you think it's 100% ready?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah, I need my legs to run  - especially my game, I run a lot.  For sure I play when everything is 100%.  I don't go on the court when it's 90%.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT