ROGERS CUP
July 25, 2008
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  N. KIEFER/J. Blake  
6-1, 6-2  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How rewarding is it for you to have a result like this at a Masters Series event after the injuries that you've had over the past few years?  
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I mean, I am 31, but I'm still feeling young. I have many more years to go. I mean, I had a tough time, of course, but I was always thinking positive and trying to find a way to get out of it.   
 I knew that maybe there's a chance that I don't play anymore. I also knew when I start thinking positive and try to do my best things I can find always a way. This is what always brings me back.  
  
  Q. After a couple of late night matches this week and a long match yesterday with Davydenko, how are you feeling physically at this point?  
 NICOLAS KIEFER: No, I mean, of course I feel it a little bit. Scheduling wasn't that good, I think. Could be much better, but what can I do?   
 I mean, I got a little rest. I didn't sleep so much last few days. It's quarter past four now. I can have a little rest now and can have a good night, and then we'll see what's going on tomorrow.   
  
  Q. When you were at your best you were a top 4 player in the world. How close are you to getting back to that level, do you feel?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER: No, I mean, I think it's a big difference, because now I think I'm enjoying it much more. Every time I go out there I just try to have fun. I know tennis is competitive, but it's also entertainment.   
 I try to be relaxed. Don't take it that serious. Of course I want to win. Each time I go out there I try to beat my opponent. I think this is the biggest challenge I can have in my life.   
 I know what I work for and what I practice for. It's also not only for myself. It's for so many people who are working with me over the last few years.   
 I mean, now, for example, my coach is back home in Germany. We're talking a lot on the phone. It's just great support to have a friend with me here, my physio, and we try to enjoy it and have fun.   
  
  Q. Two questions: First one, do you think that this match was quickly? Do you feel that was easy match? And another one, how do you feel here in Toronto?  
 NICOLAS KIEFER: No. First of all, it wasn't easy. Maybe looks easy, but I also have to play very high level. And you don't have to play just for ten or fifteen minutes. You have to play for maybe one, one and a half hours. I think this was getting better day by day.   
 Second question was?   
  
  Q. How do you feel in Toronto?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I mean, I can't complain so far. If I keep on winning you say it's a great city. I had this feeling like maybe four years ago. I had this feeling one time in Montreal. So far I can't complain.   
  
  Q. Four years ago you made the semifinals here. You had just been in the finals at two tournaments, and shortly after that you hurt your wrist again. You just had more bad luck that most players on the tour have seen or deserve.   
 NICOLAS KIEFER: But I'm still alive. I always come back.   
  
  Q. Do you ever look back and kind of just lament what could have been?  
 NICOLAS KIEFER: No.   
  
  Q. No?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER: No. I mean, I can't change it anyway. I have to look in the future and not always in the past. I'm 31. Olympics are coming up soon, and I think I'm pretty good shape so far.   
 Let's cross fingers everything will be okay for the Olympics, and then maybe another four years.  
  
  Q. Has there been any lingering results from the injuries? Anything that you can't do that you could before, or are you as physically strong and fit as you've ever been?  
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Maybe stronger.   
  
  Q. Really?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Yeah.   
  
  Q. If you could go back 15 years and start over again, do you know if there's anything you could have done to avoid some of the injuries? Anything in terms of training, stretching?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Yeah, of course. I mean, I learned so much about last few years. I mean, if I would be 15 I would change many things.  
  
  Q. Such as what?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER: We don't have so much time I think.  
  
  Q. Basically what would you have done different?  
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Many things. Many things.   
  
  Q. You never played Simon before. What do you know about him?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER: Well, I mean, I was watching his match today and also last week. I mean, he had a great run in Indianapolis where he won.   
 And then also here he had good matches. He beat Roger, so I think he has a lot of confidence.   
 But I think it's another day tomorrow. And also for myself I try to go out there and I have to play my game and do my things.   
 And then once I go out there I try to beat him. That's all I can do. Fight for every ball and then see what comes out.   
  
  Q. How do you explain that on one side of the draw four seeds made the quarters and did what they were expected to do, but on this side of the draw it seemed like a much more dangerous minefield for the seeded players?  
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I think it's great for the sport. I mean, everybody can beat everybody. We think how close -- you see how close the tennis is. It's getting close.  
  
  Q. Does that put into perspective a little bit what Roger and also Rafa have done over the last several years where they've been so consistent at winning and getting to finals and advancing through draws that they've almost made it look easy?  
 NICOLAS KIEFER: I mean, of course they won most of the tournaments. One week was Roger and other week was Rafa and then Djokovic.   
 I think many more players are coming and new faces are coming. Also for me, I don't get younger. I see younger players. Some players I don't even know. I have to get used to their names and faces.   
 But as long as I can compete, I'll try to do my best and go as far as I can.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT