NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 12, 1998
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  I was going to ask you about being the next group of German players coming through.  What did you learn the most when you were working on the team with Boris?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  First of all, it was a big step for me to go on his team because, I mean, I learned a lot of how to play, how to behave in some situations, how to practice, all this stuff.


Q.  What do you feel about continuing the start that he made in German tennis; you're the next breed, the next group?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah.


Q.  How do you feel about continuing what he and Michael Stich started?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  What Boris did, especially Boris, that's not normal.  It's like explosion.  He won all the tournaments.  I mean, I think it's not easy because now I'm 20, and I didn't win Wimbledon when I was 17.  It was big for German tennis.  Now it's a new generation.  We have to start from the beginning.


Q.  Did you feel any sort of pressure on you, from the people of Germany, to do what he did and really continue what he started?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No.  I don't feel any pressure because, I mean, I said already, he won when he was 17 Wimbledon.  I can't do any more.  So I stay on the court.  I play tennis.  I do my best on the court when I play.  If I lose, I have to practice more.


Q.  What do you feel about playing for Germany?  What does it do for you?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  I think it's great to play for Germany because, I mean, I play the whole year for Germany, for me and for Germany.  But in Davis Cup, you are on a team.  You fight for Germany.  If you need three points to win the first match, so you don't to go to play for ATP points, you go there to get one point for Germany.


Q.  What is your goal personally?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  For this year?


Q.  Generally.  What do you want to achieve the most?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  I just want to improve my tennis step by step, maybe week by week, tournament by tournament,  to stay healthy.


Q.  Do you think it's important for you to have someone like Tommy Haas also doing well?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah.  I think it's great because we are two young guys.  He plays very good at the moment, too.  I mean, it's good that I am not alone over there.


Q.  Do you like the attention?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah.  It must be -- it's great. You can compare it with the last generation, Boris and Michael, played at the same time tennis, same victories.  I think it's good.


Q.  What I'm trying to get at, Boris and Michael have taken tennis in Germany to one step.  With you and Tommy Haas, do you think it will stay at that level or do you think you can take it to another level, the popularity and all that?  I know it's difficult to answer, but what are your feelings on that?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  I don't think that we can reach the same level that Boris and Michael.  Maybe we can get another level, but I don't know which one.


Q.  How are things going with Bob?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  Perfect, very good, thanks.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT