EUROCARD OPEN
October 24, 1997
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. To what extent did the pressure on you last night and the long match and everything
else, did that contribute to you today? How much did it take out of you?

NICOLAS KIEFER: I mean, it was a very long match yesterday. He was up 5-2 in the third
set; then I won five games in a row. I mean, we played more than 2 1/2 hours. Then I had
to relax and I went to bed at 1 o'clock. So, I mean, it is not normal that I win a match
like this and today I was a little bit tired. But, that is not the reason why I lost. I
don't know. Jonas played very good today. He had very good returns. So, he won.

Q. Is that what you are finding hard at this stage in your career to come out day after
day and play your best tennis?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Yeah, that is very hard because one day you win, and it is a very tough
match and the next day you have to start from the beginning and that is not easy.

Q. Playing in Germany in front of a crowd that expects a lot from you, does that make
it easier for you, or more difficult?

NICOLAS KIEFER: If you win, it is okay, but if you lose, they are very, very relaxed.
But I mean, this is tennis and they want to see you win and they try to push you, I can't
win all the time.

Q. How aware are you of the expectations of you in Germany?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Where?

Q. Here. How much do you feel that everybody now is looking to you to be the next
player to carry forward men's tennis for them?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Boris stopped. Now I am No. 1 in Germany and everybody wants to see me
win. But, tennis is not easy. You have -- I told you I have to begin from 0-0 in the first
set, so, I have to play point by point. If I win, it is okay, everybody is happy. And, if
I lose, they say: Heck, "What are you doing?" So it is not easy.

Q. Does the fact that there is also another fine young German player Tommy Haas help
you in the sense that the attention isn't just on you; it is on both of you? Does that
make life easier in that you share the expectations?

NICOLAS KIEFER: I mean, I have to play my tennis and Tommy -- you mean Tommy, right?

Q. Yes.

NICOLAS KIEFER: Tommy plays his tennis. We are different players and at the moment I am
maybe a little bit better than him. I think we push each other for the next years.

Q. Do you think today's match was sided more on the pressure that he put on you or from
the unforced errors that you also made?

NICOLAS KIEFER: I had to play very aggressive today and I knew that he plays very good
returns and if I don't serve good, I have not so many chances, but, the problem was that I
was a little bit tired today. I couldn't play so many rallies from the baseline and, okay
he was a little bit better today than me. And he won.

Q. Was your victory in Toulouse -- did you consider that some sort of breakthrough for
you? Do you feel more confident now at other events because you won your first event?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Much more confident. I won in Toulouse. I played Final in Singapore and
qualifying here I won against three big players here and I have a lot of confidence right
now.

Q. Because of Toulouse or because of everything together?

NICOLAS KIEFER: Yeah, the tournaments, yeah.

Q. Where do you think you have improved your game most in the last few months and what
is the next big step you want to take in developing your own game?

NICOLAS KIEFER: I mean, I was injured and I did a lot of fitness. This is very
important, was very important for me and also mentally I am a little bit better now and
maybe I have to play a little bit more aggressive for the next. I try to practice to play
a little bit more aggressive for the next few weeks now and then we will see what is going
to happen next year.

Q. Do you set yourself specific goals? Do you have any goals for like a year from now
of where you want to be?

NICOLAS KIEFER: My goal is to become better and better and step-by-step, week-by-week,
and not so long goals for end of the year or next.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT