WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 13, 2007
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  You got off to a very fast start.  You didn't really let him back in the match very much.  Talk about when you felt was going right today.   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  No.  I mean, I move pretty good on the court.  I felt very comfortable.  It's always easy when you start off with a break.  That's what I tried to do, to play my game.  I mean, win is win.   
 It was tough in the second set.  I was up and break chance at 4-1; didn't make it.  At 3-2 I had few game points; I didn't make it and he broke me back.  And then all service games went very quickly, and at the end of the day in the tiebreak I played a very good one and I'm happy that I won in two sets.   
  
  Q.  How are you feeling after the two surgeries?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  Physically very good.  I think that I won't to lose any matches because of my fitness.  That's so far my strongest part.  For sure I have many, many things that I can work on, still improve, and that's what I try to do.   
 At the moment I'm very happy with the game and looking forward to a few matches here, and also for the rest of year.   
  
  Q.  How difficult is it to recover from an injury like that, mentally to trust yourself to hit properly?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, you see many things had a different way.  Now I know when I make a mistake, why should I complain and be angry?  Before many things could happen to you, but now everything I see in different way.   
  
  Q.  Is it hard to sort of allow yourself to trust the strength of your wrist?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  No.  I mean, everything is okay now.  Nothing can happen, and that's the most important thing.  I can play quite normal and everything feels good.   
  
  Q.  What was it like when you first started practicing?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  It was a long time ago and I can't look always what was.  I have to look what's going on now.  At the moment I'm playing quite good tennis.  I'm very fit, maybe fitter than before and I try to win few matches to get back.   
  
  Q.  It was hard having to take a year off, being forced to take a year off?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, it was also nice.  I saw many friends.  I could spend some time with my family and friends.  I wasn't used to it.  I was used to travel for ten years in a row, and all of a sudden I had to stay home.   
 On one side it was nice to be home but on the other side I was ready to go.   
  
  Q.  You said you were happy winning in two sets.  What was it like?  Obviously Marat, when he's on, he's very, very good.  Does this give you some confidence?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  Sure.  As I said, he's a very tough guy to play against because he's putting a lot of pressure and he's a very strong person.  You never know with him, but today I think I played quite good tennis and was very, very smart.  I served good, and that I that was also key of the match.  And all I can say is win is a win, and this makes me happy.   
  
  Q.  Andy Murray has a wrist problem and is coming back now.  Last week he wasn't able to play the way he's used to.  Is it possible to give anyone advice in a situation like this with a wrist injury?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  You have to ask his doctors.  I can't.   
  
  Q.  That's what I was asking you about, what it's like when you can't fully trust it, when you're first hitting and you're not sure if it's going to stand up to play.   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  You have to ask him.  I had good doctors so I trust them.   
  
  Q.  With yours was it almost immediately okay once you rested enough?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, I had many problems.  Took almost over a year.  I was pretty confident.  For me I didn't care one year off or three years, I knew that I have to be mentally strong and one day it'll happen.   
  
  Q.  It's difficult to be that mentally strong.   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah, but that's the challenge in your life, and I took the challenge.   
  
  Q.  Having played five or six tournaments, where are you in terms of feeling like you can compete regularly and be successful?  I guess kind of like prior to your injury.   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  Physically I'm better than before I think.  Nobody will beat me by fitness, and tennis-wise, I mean, it's still a long way to go.  It's a long way, but in a good way.   
 So also I take this challenge because I'm still young and many things can come.  So I'm looking forward to it, the next weeks, months, and years.   
  
  Q.  Did you change the way you trained when you were injured because you knew you had to sit out and not play?  Did you change anything in terms getting physically fit during the time off?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  I could run a lot.  I couldn't do anything with my hands.  I could run and jump.   
  
  Q.  So did that help you?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  It's boring, but only thing I could do.  It's very boring.   
  
  Q.  So are you saying that your perspective on things has changed since you came back?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yeah.  I mean, also when I was home I have a charity at home.  I help these kids.  Normally I'm there to help these kids, but when I saw them they help me much more.  I have only the wrist injury and they are like 14, 15, 16 years old and they know that are going to die soon.  So I have not a problem at all.   
  
  Q.  What is the name of the charity?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  It's like child dream.  Like we raise money --   
  
  Q.  You raise money for?   
 NICOLAS KIEFER:  To make like young kids, boys or girls happy.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT