AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2006
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 


Q.  How do you assess your performance tonight?  How do you sum it up? 

NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, I mean, I think was great match.  Especially first two sets was unbelievable tennis.  Was tough start in the third set.  I mean, I served pretty good and then he hit three unbelievable returns and I got broke.  And then once he's ahead, it's not easy.  And I tried to stay in the whole time.  I mean, we were solid games, but I just couldn't make it.  Then in the end, he was just too good. 

Q.  Your first Grand Slam semifinal.  How is that going to set you up for the rest of the year? 

NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, I mean, first I have to realize it.  I mean, just short time after the match.  I have to sleep over it and then I think next few days I will realize it.  No, I have to say it was great start of the year.  Also with my new coach, we worked a lot.  I think it's on one hand side it's a great result, but on the other hand side, of course I am disappointed because my goal was to beat Roger.  But then when it came to the important points, maybe I took too much risk.  But to beat this guy, you have to take a lot of risks; you have to play at your limit.  Well, I can say I lost a lot of energy in my first rounds.  Maybe it pays off in the end. 

Q.  How do you feel physically now? 

NICOLAS KIEFER:  Very tired. 

Q.  And emotionally tired?  How much pressure does it put on you mentally to play Roger?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, that's -- that's the moment you are practicing for, you are working for, you work hard to measure yourself with the best guy in the world.  Unfortunately, I couldn't do it again.  But that's my goal:  to keep on working and to try next time. 

Q.  You mentioned looking ahead.  How easy do you think it will be to come down from this and come back to, you know, presumably you have Davis Cup and things coming up? 

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, I think I had great, great two weeks.  This is what I also have to see.  Of course on the one hand side is the loss tonight against Roger.  But on the other hand side, I have to think -- I have to see the good things, and this was for sure.  I didn't play my best tennis in the first few rounds but I was fighting unbelievable and that's the reason why I won my matches.  It showed me today by fighting, it's not easy to beat Roger.  You have to play also your best tennis, you have to play at your limit, and this is almost tough for me because of course I was tired, I had to try to take all my energy, I was trying for every point.  But at the end, I just couldn't make it.  Of course, disappointed, but I lost so much energy in the last few days.

Q.  It's been a very good tournament for Germany.  Does that give you confidence for Davis Cup and for German tennis?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, I'm looking forward for Davis Cup tie.  I mean, we still have two weeks, and now I'm gonna use next days to recover little bit.  I mean, we have a great team.  I mean, of course it's tough, tough tie against France.  But we have a home match finally after many years.  We play in Halle.  I mean, it's my favorite place.  I feel like home.  It's not far away from home.  I think it's gonna be great week and hopefully - cross fingers - successful weekend.

Q.  Presumably you can expect a good reception after what you have take done here?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, I mean, at the moment I'm pretty disappointed and tired and just mentally very, very tired.  But I think over next few days I'm gonna realize and I can look back and say, Great four weeks in Australia.  I lost to the best player in the world, and he showed it in the big moments.  Was tough. 

Q.  Does it mean that you will not be coming to Zagreb or not?

NICOLAS KIEFER:  I am going to think about it.  Doesn't look like. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT