AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2006
Nicolas Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  How did you manage to win after 4 hours and 48 minutes on court?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, I don't know.  I mean, I just tried to stay in to keep on focusing on one or two good shots.  I mean, I saw that he was tired.  But, I mean, I didn't feel much better.  I just tried not to show it.  But it was tough.  I don't know what's happening, if we're equal again.  I felt pretty bad, too.  
 
Q.  How does it feel to finally be in a semifinal of a Grand Slam? 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I think it's great, and I'm so happy because I knew the situation.  I've been so many times in the quarterfinal.  This one today was my biggest one, not only because I won.  Many years ago I played Escude here, I was two sets to zero up.  I lost.  Was tough loss.  Then also at the Olympics, with four match points, serving for the gold medal, we didn't make it.  So this was just great.  I mean, I'm so happy.  Of course I didn't play my best tennis, but I just stayed in, focused.  I was fighting like hell.  It paid off in the end.  
 
Q.  Did something snap in your brain when you threw your racquet over the other side of the net?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No.  I mean, everybody has to understand, there are so many emotion and so much tension.  You fight for four and a half hours and it happens. 
 
Q.  How does it happen?  I've never seen it before. 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No?  
 
Q.  No. 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  I do it many times (smiling).  
 
Q.  Is it involuntary? 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Just like this.  I thought the ball is -- I lose this point.  Then all of a sudden after he missed, the racquet went over.  Of course, it's not nice, but what can I do?  I'm a person with so much tension also inside.  Yeah, it's cooking.  
 
Q.  Did you mean for it to go over the net? 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No.  
 
Q.  We've seen players do it when the shot is out of reach, they just throw it as kind of a joke.  Yours sort of went towards him. 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, not at all.  I mean, we are good friends.  I mean, of course, everybody wants to win.  It's so tight.  Yeah, there are things happening.  I know it's not nice.  I know it's not good.  There's so much tension, so much is happening on the court.  We fight for four and a half hours.  It's so hot out there.  Your body is gone.  These are things that are happening.  
 
Q.  Did you apologize?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Of course. 
 
Q.  Would you have accepted if the supervisor said you'd lost a point?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Of course.  I thought it's his point.  I was surprised that I got this point, but I took it.  
 
Q.  Were you surprised because he missed the overhead or because the umpire didn't rule in his favor?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Both.  I mean, I was surprised that he missed it, and I was surprised that I got the point.  In my mind, I was focusing already on my service game.  I thought I lost this game, so take my towel and serve.  Then I saw they started discussing.  I said okay.  
 
Q.  You thought you lost the point because the racquet had gone over the net?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Could you understand why Sebastien would be upset?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Of course I understand it.  But I think these are things that are happening.  I mean, we shouldn't talk only about this.  There were so many close calls, especially in the tiebreak.  I mean, first point, it's clearly out.  He's not overruling it.  Then I make a serve, a kick serve.  It's going like high over the net.  How can this ball touch the net?  That's a very big question mark.  I mean, there are so many close points.  Of course, also this point was close.  I mean, didn't affect at all the game.  
 
Q.  Did you get distracted by that line call of the first point of the tiebreak?  You seemed to lose focus after that in that tiebreak. 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, I didn't lose my focus.  I mean, when I want to win, I have to play aggressive, but I couldn't make it at this stage.  Then he played much better than I did.  Then he deserve to win the fourth set.  I mean, I had a break fifth set, couldn't hold my serve, and I was down 1-4.  But still I was thinking, because I saw how he's moving, I saw that he was getting a little tired.  I said, "Just try to hang in, focus on your serve, try to do something."  It paid off in the end.  
 
Q.  After such an emotional match, there's every likelihood you'll have to play the top-ranked player in the world, how do you prepare for that? 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  No, I mean, these are the moments you practice for, you work hard, you do so much work on the court and also off the court.  I mean, I think you can't get a better feeling like this today.  I mean, tough match.  Spectators were into it, supporting everybody.  Of course, not easy.  I mean, at the moment I feel -- I can say I feel a little bit tired, of course.  But I have two days to recover.  I'm looking forward to this match against Roger.  I mean, we have close matches last year.  I know as long as he is in the tournament, he's playing better and better.  I know also that I have to play much better than today, much better than the other days.  I'm winning my matches here because I'm fighting unbelievable, and this makes me happy.  Not by playing good tennis, but by fighting.  
 
Q.  How did your ankle hold up to such a long match?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Well, I mean, I take so many painkillers.  Just try not to focus on my ankle and everything.  But today I was focusing on this too much.  I just needed a new tape to make it new, to renew it.  Well, now everything hurts.  
 
Q.  You said through the match you were bubbling all the time.  How do you keep a lid on that when things feel like they're going to explode? 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Sorry?  
 
Q.  You said you were bubbling through the match. 
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Big time.  
 
Q.  How do you keep your emotions in check?
 
NICOLAS KIEFER:  Take an ice towel, changeover.  I don't know.  I mean, first two sets was okay.  But then once you get into it, it's tough to go down.  I mean, it's going more, more, more.  I mean, I don't know what's happening when I don't make the second match point.  Everything can be possible.  But I was so happy that I made it.  I mean, I was already a little bit angry with myself that I didn't make the first one.  Was a big chance, but couldn't make it.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT