MLB EXPANSION DRAFT
November 18, 1997
Jeff Suppan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How do you feel about leaving Boston and coming back closer to home?   
 JEFF SUPPAN:  Well, you know when I found out ‑‑ when I got out of high school, I was going to UCLA because I wanted to stay close to home, but when I got drafted by the Red Sox, I was in the total opposite side, on the East Coast.  I really enjoyed Boston.  I think the move is definitely ‑‑ my family is definitely very excited that I'm closer to California, but then I'm kind of sad leaving the friends that I have made in Boston, and some of the fans that I have met, from the Red Sox.   
  
  Q.  Are you disappointed that the Red Sox didn't protect him?  Did you expect them to protect you?   
 JEFF SUPPAN:  Two months ago I thought for sure I was going to be protected, but then again I didn't know.  I can't remember, WEI, I think in Boston, they called me and let me know there was speculation, there was a little shock factor, but after that I really was just going to wait and see what happened in the draft.  So I did definitely ‑‑ I was shocked by it,  but I came to realize that through the actions of the expansion draft, you know, you can't protect everyone, and definitely it's a business decision.   
  
  Q.  Are you somewhat relieved that ‑‑ you've been hurting the last couple of years ‑‑ are you somewhat relieved to be in a different atmosphere?   
 JEFF SUPPAN:  I don't think what I had was really being hurt, I only missed one month in four years.  But am I relieved to be in a new atmosphere?  I don't know, because I was just getting used to Boston, and feeling comfortable there, knowing the coaching staff and knowing a lot of the players in the organization.  Relieved, I don't know if that's the word I'd use, but it's definitely exciting, I can say that for sure.   
  
  Q.  What is exciting about this?   
 JEFF SUPPAN:  Just a new opportunity, almost like a new world for me.  I was so brought up within the organization, I never even thought about any other organizations, I really wanted object a Red Sox for a long time ‑‑ a Red Sox for a long time, and it's just ‑‑ it's exciting in a way that I never thought of.  I never thought this would happen.  And that I think is the exciting part, going into something you don't know a lot about, definitely being able to play in Arizona  is exciting, being on a new expansion team, being able to start from the ground up, that's exciting, there's a whole lot of things that are exciting.   
  
  Q.  What can you bring to this team that perhaps people are not familiar with and haven't seen?   
 JEFF SUPPAN:  I think I can bring some young talent, I think I have a lot of ability as a pitcher. I think I learn fast, I listen well.  And I look forward to new challenges, so I think I can bring a lot of experience at a young age, but also a lot of inexperience to where there is still room for me to grow and to become the player that I can be.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel the arrival of Rose and Pavano has speeded your exit?   
 JEFF SUPPAN:  I don't really know.  I don't know what their plans were.  I've heard rumors that Carl might be traded, so I don't really know what the situation was, why I'm leaving Boston, I don't really know.   
  
  Q.  You show a sound of disappointment.  Is there a disappointment right now?   
 JEFF SUPPAN:  I don't know if it's disappointment.  I think it's a shock factor.  When you're with the team, an organization, with a group of people, with a group of players for a while there is a  little disappointment, but it's not taking my whole ‑‑ all my thoughts are of disappointment.  A lot of my thoughts, most of my thoughts are of the new excitement of getting the opportunity to play with the Arizona Diamondbacks.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT