NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 16, 1998
Viacheslav Fetisov
Kirk Maltby
Larry Murphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








KIRK MALTBY:  Great shoulder shoots, injury there, came back, hurt it again in Dallas series, he played through it, a lot of guys played through injuries. We came out with a huge game tonight.


Q.   How did this team repeat?  How did it stay focused?

KIRK MALTBY:   We got so many guys that have experience -- with the captain that we have, with Stevie, I mean he kept everyone's emotions in tact.  We went out tried to give ourselves a win and couldn't ask for a better chance than we had.


Q.   With Konstantinov coming out on the floor, what did that mean emotionally for you guys?

KIRK MALTBY:   I mean all year we have had Vladi in our thoughts.  A lot of people thought with him gone we wouldn't be able to do it.  He was a great inspiration for us.  Seeing him tonight it just tops it off.


Q.   What about Bowman -- what about the job he's done as a coach?

KIRK MALTBY:   You can't describe -- what is this, the eighth one now?  He is a technician of hockey.  He knows everything about hockey.  If it wasn't for him, it was just as much him as anybody else why we won this.


Q.   You scored that goal, it had to be great?

LARRY MURPHY:   I didn't hear any whoops after that.  Just a tremendous accomplishment for this team.  I am just so proud of everybody. Obviously for Sergei and Vladi's situation.  It was great to see him out there with the Cup, just a wonderful moment.


Q.   How was this one different from '92?

LARRY MURPHY:   They are all the same to be perfectly honest.  To get your hands on it, it's the greatest thing, you never take it for granted. I thought last year would be my last, then all of a sudden, you get another one.  They are all special and unique in their own way, you couldn't pick one over the other.


Q.   When Vladi was wheeled out on the ice, it was a great moment.

LARRY MURPHY:   Great to see him.  It just tears your heart out when you see the situation he's in.  I'm so happy he could be here with us.  But he has such a fight ahead of him, it's just hard.

VIACHESLAV FETISOV:   Like I said -- happiest Vladi was I ever see him in the last year or so. We did something right for him, he was surrounded by his family and friends it was a great, great moment.  I didn't expect him to go down to the ice.  It was unbelievable on both parts, on Washington and especially fans from Detroit.  It's a special thing.  It's not just a hockey thing.  It is probably more than that.  We can show the rest of the world it's not only hockey team, it's something else.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT