NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: RED WINGS v FLYERS
June 7, 1997
Viacheslav Fetisov
Larry Murphy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What did you say to Igor when you were carrying the Cup around the ice together.

VIACHESLAV FETISOV:  I have to say a lot.  I say Igor, you have to get the Cup together.  I have been through so many years and something difficult, lots of hockey games, lots of minutes.  It is eight years during this moment and--  my teammates, they were -- I can't describe it.  I never forget this moment the rest of my life.  I mean, you hear a lot about Larry Murphy, when you play with him on the same team, he is a great hockey player, a player with -- it is meant for me, it is unbelievable.  When they play, you can see all details, you can see, you know, it is moments when nobody can do it.  This man plays great hockey for us.  And, I couldn't say enough about my teammates.  20 leaders in the dressing room.  It is unbelievable.  Everybody did a good job and I am just happy man.  Cheers, guys.  (raises champage glass).  I waited so long, 29 years, for this moment.


Q.  Larry, back in June or so when all of your fans in Toronto were letting you know how much they like you, did you ever dream that this was possible?

LARRY MURPHY:  I didn't dream this was possible until about half, however, before the deadline.  I was anticipating a long golf season and I mean, one phone call, it is amazing that one phone call can change your destiny.  And, I come to Detroit, a team that -- what is so special about this team is what Slava said, everybody, everybody was in on it.  I am sure you had your -- you had a tough job deciding who to give the Cup to.  We had 6, 7 guys who you could have easily given it to.  It was sweet.  It was a total team effort.  Everybody wanted it.  There was obviously a lot of side stories to this.  I mean, we had our five Russian players, I mean, who, I mean, were a huge part of this team.  Obviously that is a large percentage of the team, but I mean we counted on these guys, in all critical situations and they came through.  You can just sense -- I sensed when I got here how important this was to them and it was important to everybody else.  And, getting back to your question, I mean, I have to thank Jimmy Devellano and Scotty Bowman for bringing me here to Detroit, pulling me out of the situation in Toronto.  And, giving me an opportunity, it was great.  It was sweet.  As far as I am concerned, this story book stuff and I will probably get to sleep by about Wednesday. 


Q.  Larry, winning the Stanley Cup is one thing, sweeping is another.  Did you expect it to be four games?

LARRY MURPHY:  I would have never predicted going in that we would win four straight.  But, we were, by far, the best team in the League.  As the Playoffs went on, we were just better and better.  No one can touch us.  I mean, we were, hands down, the best team, the most likely team to win the Stanley Cup.  I didn't predict four games straight.  I don't think anybody did.  But we knew going into the series that we would just go in and outplay anybody.  And, it didn't matter how big they were, how strong they were.  We were just going to go out and basically outplay them and that is what we did. That is all we concentrated on, go out and play.  If we did that, we knew that we were going to outplay anybody and that is what happened.


Q.  Slava, can you compare this to all the other championships you have won and did you ever think there was a time when this would have ever happened?

VIACHESLAV FETISOV:  First of all, it was longest time for me.  I came in this League eight years ago.  I got kind of  -- all of a sudden I have to start all over again at the age of 31 and it was a tough situation.  It was lots of thoughts, that is why I came here, what I have to do and then understanding it was domestic, not American hockey anymore.  It is international, best players here, and you know, it was lots of up and downs.  Not many people believe I could finally get this Cup under my belt.  But, I said to myself, it is a dream that is going to last and I chase this dream and I got great support.  I am thanks for Scotty.  He give me a chance to play for this team.  My teammates was unbelievable.  Special thanks for my family.  They support me all the way and I mean, it is very important.  Not so easy, but they support me and my little Dasha keep me young and she never see me before I was player or champion before, but this Cup I work for a lot too.  She is six years old. She is old enough to understand.


Q.  Slava, this may be a bit early.  Do you know what you want to do from here?  Do you want to play some more or do you have other plans?

VIACHESLAV FETISOV:  Actually I feel pretty good.  I can play another series, probably.  I don't know.  I think last three years, took one year -- I decide to play another year. But, I mean, I am so happy I am healthy and I feel no difference in ten -- than ten years ago.  Maybe I get a little bit slower, but I mean, I get enough motivation to play.  It is first Stanley Cup and then, you know, you have to moderate yourself to play the best against best players, young, big strong, fast, and it motivate me to to be in good shape.  But, if you can't skate, you can't play.  It is impossible.  I mean, it is lots of motivation for me.  When you get a moment like that, you have to say you are too old, you  cannot play anymore.  I have to enjoy this moment.  That is what I have to do.


Q.  Slava, do you think either you or any of your Russian teammates will take the Cup back to Russia this summer?

VIACHESLAV FETISOV:  Like, you know, it is so many countries.  Stanley Cup Final, it is big interest in Russia too.  I would say Russians they have some difficulties back home, best players play outside country, you know, minor league system, a lot more play in Europe.  I mean, if we can make this kind of action, definitely going to ask Commissioner Gary Bettman to let us to bring the Cup to Moscow, maybe it will create some interest.  Government will pay.  Now we need some investors in hockey.  We have a good hockey program back home and I mean, it is part of the NHL, part of the International Hockey itself and I would say it the Cup will could help Russian hockey, to help bring some investors and I would say it is going to be good moment for hockey if we could bring it.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT