SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2015
Melanie Balcomb
Jasmine Jenkins
Marqu'es Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Vanderbilt head coach and student‑athletes Jasmine Jenkins and Marqu'es Webb. 
We'll take questions. 

Q.   Coach, fell into a hole early, then your team fought back.   Talk about what happened to change it after the poor beginning. 
COACH BALCOMB:   Well, I think one of the biggest things was we changed defenses.   We were really struggling rebounding in the zone.   They were getting second and third shots every time down. 
We switched to a man‑to‑man.   Then we were responsible for who we had in our checkout.   We started giving them one‑and‑done.   We held them for a long period defensively which helped us to get offensively in transition, get in a flow and be able to score as well. 

Q.   Coach, talk about the charge call on Dahlman. 
COACH BALCOMB:   That was a tough call.   You guys already know how I feel.   Had a technical.   I can't really say anything about it other than it was the game right there. 
I mean, obviously I didn't see it that way.   You know, you don't have control of that.   That was pretty much the game.   It would have been a great big play for us, but it turned around to be the opposite. 

Q.   With zero seniors on this team, a lot of underclassmen, talk about the program. 
COACH BALCOMB:   I think it's been an interesting year, different than any other season I've ever been in. 
At the same time we were young.   We lost a really strong leader and a really strong scorer.   I think it took us a while with so many young players, then you throw in a lot of injuries to that, for us to get into a flow and a rotation and roles, all the things that make up a team, chemistry on and off the court, consistency, and consistency leads to trust. 
I saw a lot of trust on the floor today and yesterday.   You know, I think the future, that shows us that we can be the team we want to be, and we're heading in that direction.   I think it means a lot to end on this kind of positive.   It showed us what we needed to see to go forward. 

Q.   For the players, when you were down by that much in the first half, struggling to score, how did you keep your mentality up and the fight?
JASMINE JENKINS:   I think, like coach said, we changed defenses.   That really helped us.   When you're playing, coach always said to not look at the scoreboard, just go out there and fight.   That's what we did. 
We fought when we were down.   We fought when we were up.   We fought the whole game.   That's a huge positive to take out of this game. 
We dug ourselves a hole and we got out of it.   That's a positive.   We stayed together and believed in each other for 40 minutes, the entire game.   We didn't look at the scoreboard, we just went out there and played basketball. 

Q.   Kentucky has no shortage of tall players.   Marqu'es, give us a cameo of what it was like down in the post. 
MARQU'ES WEBB:   Definition of the SEC, you know.   It's a battle every night.   It is a battle every night, whether it's rebounding, offensive rebounding, defensive rebounding.   Shooting a layup is a battle. 
It's all about angles, doing work before the catch.   Whether you're being guarded by somebody that's 6'5" or somebody that's 5'9", it's a battle.   We're just ready to fight, so... 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT