CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2007
Jeanette Kerr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Talk about the start you had.   
 JEANETTE KERR:  Definitely a momentum builder.  It gives me, what do you call that, a little bit of breathing room, I'm 1-under after 1.  And then coming into 11, that's a tough par 3.  But I made a par there.  Yeah, it was a great experience.  Love it.   
  
  Q.  When we talked on Monday, you said you were nervous but really anxious to get out here.  Now you have a round under your belt.  What was it like?   
 JEANETTE KERR:  It was awesome.  I was really happy to see actually the time I had today, 7:21.  I get up early in the morning, and it was like, get up, get dressed, go to the golf course and play instead of having that 1:00 o'clock in the afternoon tee time.  Then I'm like, what do I do, maybe I should go shopping or do something.   
  
  Q.  Just something to distract you?   
 JEANETTE KERR:  Right.   
  
  Q.  Now you've got the club in your hands, you're first to tee off at the Canadian Open.   
 JEANETTE KERR:  Yeah, I talked to a friend of mine, and she's like, oh, I know Tracy Hanson, she's a great girl, and that sort of made me relax a little bit because you never know who you'll get paired with.   
  
  Q.  And tell me what that moment was like when you got that club in your hand for the first time.   
 JEANETTE KERR:  My body was trembling.  Yeah, it was fine, and I hit it right where I wanted to, and it was okay.  Like I said, I wish I would have had a little bit more -- I wish I was a little bit more nervous on the back nine, just a little bit.  I wish I had a little -- I played better on the front because I think I was still just a little bit nervous.   
  
  Q.  Understandably so.  This is the biggest golf tournament in the country.   
 JEANETTE KERR:  Uh-huh.   
  
  Q.  And you're playing against pros, and even though it's your home course, who can blame you for being a little nervous?   
 JEANETTE KERR:  Yeah, and I was 78 today, I think, 7-over, and I just had one bad hole.  I had a triple on 7, and that's golf.  I had to take an unplayable.   
  
  Q.  What do you do now between now and round 2?   
 JEANETTE KERR:  I'm going to go out to lunch, and then I'm going to hit the range for a bit and then I'm going to work on some things I know I have to work on and then go from there.   
  
  Q.  Was it driving that you think let you down today?   
 JEANETTE KERR:  No, my weakness in my golf game has always been my iron shots, and just didn't have any -- like my clubs were -- I call it tilt.  I was hitting everything sort of deep and to the right instead of the little bit of draw that I normally do.   
  
  Q.  So it'll be the irons that will be coming out of the bag on the practice range today?   
 JEANETTE KERR:  That's right.  No, driving accuracy I think is pretty good.   
  
  Q.  And then when you're teeing off tomorrow, do you think that the nerves will be gone?   
 JEANETTE KERR:  Oh, no, absolutely not.  It's still a tournament round.   
  
  Q.  What do you have to do tomorrow?   
 JEANETTE KERR:  Go out and shoot low, make a few birdies.   
  
  Q.  What would you think you have to shoot tomorrow?   
 JEANETTE KERR:  Oh, I'll have to be I would say 67 probably for sure.   
  
  Q.  And would that be close to your best round ever here on your home course?   
 JEANETTE KERR:  It would be here, yeah.  It's doable, though.  You never know, right?  Anything can happen.   
  
  Q.  Did you see the folks with the "go, Jeanette, go" buttons?   
 JEANETTE KERR:  I knew they had them on.  I was trying to ignore everyone outside the ropes.  I wasn't used to all that clapping.  I was like, yeah, I guess I should lift my hat.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT