STANFORD UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 22, 2016
Kenneth Olugbode
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Colorado - 10, Stanford - 5
Q. We all know you have bigger goals, but talk about being bowl eligible.
KENNETH OLUGBODE: It means a lot, especially as seniors, fifth-year seniors, the guys who came in with Mac, even guys that weren't here -- who were here when Coach Mac wasn't, it seems huge to be able to finally go to a bowl.
Q. And for you, defense was such a big part of this win.  Does that mean a little bit extra?
KENNETH OLUGBODE: No, it means to us as a team.  It doesn't really matter offense, defense, special teams, as long as we get a W, that's just how we feel as a team.  We just want to go out there as a unit and make sure we do our best.
Q. When the field goals kept missing, you guys had to protect a very slim lead.  What was it that allowed you to continue to answer the bell in that situation?
KENNETH OLUGBODE: As a defense, I told them, I said, all right, let's go to work.
Q. What was it like to play against a quarterback like McCaffrey?
KENNETH OLUGBODE: It's awesome.  I mean, he's got all that hype, he's got all the press and everything that are behind him, supporting him.  It's just awesome to play someone like that.
Q. Just a year ago Stanford kind of dominated you guys.  What does it mean for you to come out here now and have this kind of performance?
KENNETH OLUGBODE: It means a lot.  We talked about that all week, that we got dominated last year, and we can't have that.
Q. What's it like to beat your brother's team?
KENNETH OLUGBODE: It's great to be back in the day.  It's awesome to beat my brother's team, as well, a lot of those guys he played with, and it's like -- honestly, it's like playing with your family out there, as well.
Q. How much pride do you guys take in a performance like that and giving yourselves a chance to win?
KENNETH OLUGBODE: It's a lot of pride, but again, we're a team.  Even if the offense went out there and played lights out, we'd still be behind them and we'd still be hyped.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT