U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2015
Jim Carter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Next up is Jimmy Carter.  He shot an even round 70 today and is 4 under for the Championship.JIMMY CARTER: Hello again.Q. If you were to describe your round today, what would you say?JIMMY CARTER: I was really pleased, played well.  I felt like I made some good saving putts, but I kind of let some good birdie opportunities get away.  But that's kind of the way golf goes, right?Q. All in all, minus 4, a packed leaderboard.  You're in it.  Tell me what you're going to do.JIMMY CARTER: That's really cool.  That's what I -- I mean, if somebody would have told me that last week, I would have taken it in a heartbeat.  So it's nice.  I just want to go out and hopefully have my best day ever.  Try to be relaxed and do the stuff that I know I can do.Q. You had a very nice compliment about the way the golf course was set up yesterday, saying it was pretty much perfect.  Did it stay the same today?JIMMY CARTER: It got a notch faster, a notch harder, which is what I expect them to do and what they want to see happen.  They increase the difficulty a little bit each day.  The conditions have been so good.  They just ratchet it up just perfect, just a notch at a time.  I'm sure it will be a little bit tougher tomorrow as well.Q. Do you think somebody will have to go really low to win it outright, or is it going to be just one of those ebb and flow deals?JIMMY CARTER: You never know.  I mean, everybody's good.  Somebody can light it up.  Usually somebody does light it up.  I expect somebody to shoot low.  I guess we're teeing off -- all off No. 1 tomorrow.  So there will be some guys going off early that maybe the conditions will be a little better, a little softer.  I'm not really sure. Usually, somebody lights it up, and hopefully that will be me.Q. Are you -- given the packed conditions of the leaderboard, are you a leaderboard watcher?  Do you want to know what to do?JIMMY CARTER: I think definitely near the end, you kind of need to know what you're going to do.  But before, hopefully, you just keep your head down, make a lot of birdies, and let everybody else look at your name and try to figure out what they need to do to catch you.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT