U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 26, 2015
Jim Carter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Next up, we have Jimmy Carter.  Shot a 1 under round of 69 today.  He's 4 under for the Championship.   Q.  You've been very consistent.  You've only made one bogey in 36 holes.  Pretty good run.  JIMMY CARTER: That's nice, yeah.  Happy to never have bogeys.  But especially on a week like this, you know, where you miss a fairway, it's almost a shot or half shot penalty.  So get out of here with only one is pretty good.   Q.  When you came out of the bunker on that hole, did the ball hit the flagstick or hit the flag when you almost --  JIMMY CARTER: I think it hit just short and one-hopped into the pin.  Ended up close to save a bogey.  That was nice.   Q.  What's been the key to your consistency this week?  Is it just hitting in the fairway?  JIMMY CARTER: I hit a lot of fairways, and the ones I've missed, I was able to get somewhere on the green.  Then seems like I've hit quite a few greens.  I don't know how many.  I've had a lot of good opportunities, good looks at birdie.   Q.  Do you recall a stretch in your career where you went that many holes without a bogey?  JIMMY CARTER: Yeah, I've done it a few times.  I don't know exactly, but I've gone close to three rounds.  I've never gone a whole week.  That would be nice.  I know I've gone a couple rounds, though.   Q.  Your position on the leaderboard must be satisfying.  You know you're in the mix.  JIMMY CARTER: I don't even know what it is.  I was trying not to look that much.  But what is the lead?  6, 7?   Q.  6.  JIMMY CARTER: 6.   Q.  It's actually 5.  JIMMY CARTER: 5, that's a good spot, yeah.  That's nice.  You always want to be better than you are in this game.  Doesn't matter what you shoot, you wish you'd done better.  But that's good.  If somebody said you would be one back after two days and a chance, I think you'd say okay, let's go.   Q.  Looks like you were prepared for the heat with the way you're dressed, right?  JIMMY CARTER: I've had my fill of sunshine for the last, what, 40 years or so.  It's wearing me out.  But I like being outdoors.  I love playing golf.  So I just have to hide under the big hat and the sleeves.   Q.  How much water did you go through today, do you know?  JIMMY CARTER: I don't know.  We were trying to drink some every hole.  Probably did about eight bottles and maybe a couple Powerades too.   Q.  What do you think of Sacramento so far?  Obviously, a lot of heat out here in the valley.  JIMMY CARTER: It's awesome.  I'd been here once before.  I played in one of Kevin's Pro-Ams a few years back when we bussed over from Reno.  It's nice.  It's a nice place.  It's always -- California is such a great state.  It's so pretty.  It's got everything here.  So it's nice to come to California. Conditions on this course, too, are just amazing.  It's like Fantasyland.  It's so good, tee to green.  It's just perfect.   Q.  The greens rolling?  JIMMY CARTER: Yeah, they're amazing, really fair, really consistent.  Whoever was in charge of this, they did it right.  Awesome job, yeah.   Q.  Jimmy, thanks.  JIMMY CARTER: Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT