AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 15, 2003
Nomar Garciaparra
Jason Varitek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Did you do anything with pitches tonight that you have not been able to do in the last few weeks? 
 
NOMAR GARCIAPARRA:   I don't know about any pitches.  All I've done is go up there the same as I have been.  I get a lot of confidence and a lot of support from my teammates, and the team's been unbelievable all year around.  Just like, hey, go out there, keep doing what you're doing, keep going, a lot of prayer going out there and a lot of support and hopefully good pitches, put the bat on the ball and I was able to do that today. 
 
Q.  Does it get any better than Game  7, Roger and Pedro, Yankee Stadium, going to the World Series, as a baseball historian this is a movie script?
 
JASON VARITEK:   We have battled and fought against these guys all year.  We had to play them 18 times and both of our teams have changed in different ways at different times.  That's what baseball is about, really.  
 
NOMAR GARCIAPARRA:   Going into today's game and you're down 3-2; we're going to Game  7.  Glad that we're able to have a game seven, that's for sure.  As Tek said, two great teams and they really are.  Two great teams that will go out there and do their best and see what happens. 
 
Q.  Can you just talk about the sense of urgency in the seventh inning to solve Contreras with the likelihood of Mariano coming in after that? 
 
NOMAR GARCIAPARRA:   I don't know if it was a sense of urgency, just a feeling that this team has had all year long, where it's like, all right, every inning, you know, let's go do it, let's try to get some runs.  That's the way the team has played throughout the year, it's like that, it's like, all right, there's three outs, three outs we're playing to the last out every out.  It's important to go out there and keep battling, no matter who is on the hill.  We don't think ahead.  We're trying to think of what the moment is and go out there and try to do our best.  
 
Q.  Jason, you said last night, all we need is another day.  Do you feel the same way tonight going into Game  7?  Just give us another chance, another day? 
 
JASON VARITEK:   Just the way this team functions.  I said it a lot last night and a lot of people laughed at me.  This team, just give us a chance.  We had our backs to the wall even more so after giving up a three-run lead and then turning around, being down two and still coming away and fighting through that game and finding a way to win.  But we have one more game tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Your first at-bat you fought off a tough pitch and got a base hit on the bat, does that set up the rest of the game giving you a good feeling for yourself?
 
NOMAR GARCIAPARRA:   I don't know if it sets up the rest of the game.  Every time I step up to the plate I'm doing whatever I can to get on base and help the team.  That's really my focus each and every time.  I got on, other times I got on, hopefully score some runs.  When you see the runs and everything we've done, that's a total team effort. 
 
Q.  Can you give us some insight into Pedro's mindset coming into a big game and whether you think the emotions of his last appearance will or won't play into how he comes out tomorrow? 
 
JASON VARITEK:   I think everybody got through the emotions of that last appearance on both sides, both teams.  We have both done a good job of returning to play baseball.  Both pitchers settled down after that and went out there and played baseball.  I don't expect anything else.  I expect Pedro to compete like he always does.  I expect Roger to do the same.  We need to come ready to play. 
 
Q.  Jason, there was so much hype going into the series because of the history, the rivalry, as someone who has participated in it, can you say whether it's lived up to that hype?
 
JASON VARITEK:   Well, I think every game we've played against these guys this year for the most part, every series has turned into it.  You didn't expect anything else.  I'm sure they didn't expect us to go down without a fight and tomorrow it's going to be a major battle. 
 
Q.  Can you talk about how your bullpen continues to perform in the post-season? 
 
JASON VARITEK:   I think we had guys starting to peak and getting to know some guys, too, at different times, one being Williamson.  Embree and Timlin have done a good job.  They have come up with  -- Timlin with a split and Embree, he's getting good break on his slider and makes him a little different pitcher.  Both of them use both sides of the plate really well.  That makes things a lot different, and you've got to be able to utilize both sides of that plate.  
 
Q.  For both of you, can you describe the mood in the clubhouse and if you did anything to loosen up today going into the game and trying to just put yesterday's game passed and start out with a loose atmosphere today? 
 
NOMAR GARCIAPARRA:   I think the attitude today was exactly the way it's been all year long, but also throughout these playoffs.  Same attitude, everybody is so professional in that clubhouse going out there and saying hey, we've got to go out there and do our best, leave it out there on the field like we have all year long.  That's the same attitude for us.  
 

End of FastScript...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT