UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 13, 2006
Brian Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q.  Is there more excitement for this game?   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  Michigan/Ohio State?  Same thing every season.  That's why you go to Michigan, that's why you go to Ohio State, to play each other.  It's an exciting rivalry every year.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  Couldn't tell you.  I'm not sure, maybe 3-2, not sure.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  No comparing.  Playing this year, that's all that matters.   
  
  Q.  Playing 1 versus 2, does it make it more special?   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  It makes it more special.  But like I said being every year, it's the same rivalry.  It's the same tradition between those two schools and we don't need the 1 and 2 rankings to make this a special game.   
  
  Q.  If somebody told you last year you had to go through last year to get to this year, how would you have said?   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  Last year hurt, but that's what we're doing this year.  We came out, we're playing hard this year and we're just going to keep doing what we're doing.   
 Last year is last year.  We're playing for this year, not for last year.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  Yeah, you could say that.  You could say that.   
  
  Q.  What does it mean to have Tyler and Mike back?   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  That's huge for us.  Finally getting them two back full strength, making sure that they didn't come back and push themselves before they are fully ready to go, that was big.  We got them back when we need them.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
BRIAN THOMPSON:  They are a great team, a great defense.  We are going to watch more film tonight, so individual players and stuff like that, we'll see.  But obviously they have done a great job all year and they wouldn't be where they are if they weren't.   
  
  Q.  Do you talk much about turnovers?   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  Like I said, we'll be meeting today and talking about that, but I think we've done a great job with turnovers this year and we plan on doing the same thing this week come this Saturday.   
  
  Q.  What is it about the makeup of big-name players that allows them to perform at a high level on a bigger stage so far this season?   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  I just think, you know, this summer, conditioning, speed-wise, strength-wise, it's allowed each player on this team to really excel as much as they can.  You know, off-season preparation and leadership this year has been unbelievable.   
 So I think just a passion to win has really set players aside.   
  
  Q.  Is it important for your team to know that they need to perform well --   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  Absolutely.  Any senior or any outstanding player on any team, they know they have to excel.  Every team needs that.  We've got guys on the team doing great.  But, you know, what they do has made our team what it is.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  This is a game we'll always look back to.  But this is a season we're always going to look back to.  Every season, as long as we go out there and win, any play is a big play, as long as we go out and win.   
  
  Q.  What if you have to play a final game, rematch?   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  I'm fine with that.  That's for the BCS to decide.  That would be great but whoever is there, is there.   
  
  Q.  What's been the biggest change with Chad this year?   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  I think the biggest difference is the way that Chad has stepped up vocally with leadership.  That's probably the biggest difference.  He really took grasp of his role on the team and vocally is the biggest change.   
  
  Q.  What do you think about some of the things that go on, like the dog in the bag?   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  You know, they can do what they want to, that's fine.  We're just going to come out and play football.  We're going down there to play a football game, not to worry about any of that other stuff.   
  
  Q.  How would you describe going into Ohio Stadium?   
 BRIAN THOMPSON:  Loud and unfriendly.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT