NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: TEMPE
March 18, 2016
Kevin Borseth
Mehryn Kraker
Kaili Lukan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Tennessee - 59, Green Bay - 53
COACH BORSETH: Real proud of our players.  We wish Tennessee the best of luck.
Q. You guys were in it all the way until that six-minute stretch.  What happened that you weren't able to get the score, basically?
COACH BORSETH: You want me to answer that?
MEHRYN KRAKER: I think that we made some mistakes.  I think they capitalized on them and I think they hit a couple big shots.  That's what Tennessee does.  They hit big shots.
Q. You guys were really able to get a lot of points in the paint early, how was that able to happen, and was that discipline or how were you guys able to get so many inside baskets early?
KAILI LUKAN: I think that's part of our offense.  We like having post touches, either our bigs or our guards, and that's just something we do.  So we got there and we were able to capitalize on getting there and we went up strong many times.
Q. What was it in that six-minute stretch, where you guys were up 49-48 and things kind of went south for you?
COACH BORSETH: I don't know.  What I recall, they had a couple pull-up jumpshots in the lane.  We made one defensive mistake on a baseline out-of-bounds play.  We got a rebound through the length of the floor and missed it.
Other than that, we had some really good looks.  They went to that zone, we knew what we were doing, and one of the possessions we had was in the a good shot.
But the other ones, we had really good looks and didn't make them.  That's usually what our forte is.  People play zone, we can usually shoot pretty well out of it.  We had some really good rhythm, but we didn't make them.
Q. You were able to neutralize their size for so much of the game.  How were you able to do that?  Did they finally wear you down?
COACH BORSETH: We were ready to play a couple more quarters, yeah, we weren't tired.  I think our kids showed a lot of heart.  I thought we did a good job, I thought ball security was a big part of this game.  I thought our kids did a pretty good job of taking care of it.  Rebounding was a big part of the game and we outrebounded them by a couple.
I think a lot of the things we did in the game plan were really good.  Obviously those big kids on the basket are pretty tough, but I think we had some pull-ups, I think 20 hit a couple of them maybe.  I think two really key pull-ups, I think 20 hit, that's really what sticks out in my mind.  Then we had some opportunities.
We had a lot of lay-ups.  Man, we had lots of lay-ups that we didn't make on that basket that we converted that potentially would have been different, but yeah.
Q. You mentioned No. 20, Cooper.  It did seem like she made a big difference there, the latter part of the third quarter when they got a lead on you, and then in the fourth.  Anything in particular there about what she was doing?
COACH BORSETH: She did two things.  I think she hit one or two pull-ups and she had one she drove right down the lane for a layup.
You know, you've got to be disciplined for the whole game and you've got to be disciplined for a whole possession, and she took advantage of it.  So I felt like she was a really key for them, especially in that fourth quarter.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT