WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2002
Martin Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MARTIN LEE: In a way, yes. I just seen it, 19 break points. But I think if I go back over the ones, there's not one that I definitely should have won. I had quite a few chances, and I think Pete served very well on a lot of them. But I definitely had my chances, yeah. 

MARTIN LEE: Yeah, I went into the match thinking that he wouldn't have an injury. I think the way he played, I don't think he did have an injury. 

MARTIN LEE: Yeah, I -- it was strange 'cause when I went on the court this year, I felt really, really good. Last year I was nervous and I couldn't get into the match. This year it was totally opposite. As soon as I walked into it, I loved every minute of it. I think - the way it showed - I started well but I was 3-love down and I could have easily been 3-love up. I didn't play a bad game to lose my serve. Pete hit two great shots. But you can see why he's won seven Wimbledons. He came out and I think he played well today, I thought. And normally, the first two rounds where I've seen him, he doesn't play as well as that. I think he had to play well today 'cause I was playing well. 

MARTIN LEE: I think there is, especially in your home country. But, no, I've learned to deal with that. If I can play like that, the way I was relaxed and the way I played, I'm going to win a lot of matches. 

MARTIN LEE: Yeah. Yeah, I think the way -- it was just Queen's and when I played in Halle was just a bit too early after my injury. I knew I hadn't had the practice and I hadn't had the fitness that I needed. But going into today, I was 100 percent and I felt really good. And even at the end of that match I could have gone four or five more sets I thought because that was the first game of the set. 

MARTIN LEE: In a way, a little bit, yes. But it's a great honor to play Pete on Centre Court and play well and give him a good game. I think he knew he was in a fight there - especially the way I returned. And he had to pull out some big serves, and he did. 

MARTIN LEE: Well, I think I started to read it a little bit. And at the start, I didn't really know where he was going to serve. And then I had a bit more inkling in the second set. In the second set, I read it a lot. But if he's still serving at 128 miles an hour, even if I read it, it's still tough to get it back. But the way I returned today, I think against a lot of other people I probably would have won the match today. You can say that now, but it's -- I don't -- the way I played Pete Sampras on Centre Court gives me a lot of hope. 

MARTIN LEE: No. I was just -- I always like to hit quite a few dinks. But it's tough when you're coming in against Pete, who I thought he was moving very well today. He got to a lot of them. But he's a great player and he's a great champion. 

MARTIN LEE: I think if he -- he usually doesn't play that well first round. He likes to try to get into the tournament. But I thought he played very well. You have to ask him and see what he says. But I was surprised how well he did play today. 

MARTIN LEE: 100 times better. I was very disappointed last year. It was a new experience to me, and I think it didn't really help because I was playing Tim. So the crowd wasn't really with me. Today, it was great. They got into the match, and I think if I had got that set point in the second set, I think the roof would have blown off of the top. But it was helping me, definitely. But it's -- I had the chances but I didn't take them. 

MARTIN LEE: It's a great feeling. Last year was just -- I was so nervous and anxious. This year, it felt so much better this time around. And I enjoyed every minute of it. Even though I lost, I was enjoying it. And that's how I like to play. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT