US OPEN
August 27, 2001
Martin Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Great opportunity, wasn't it? You played really well, put yourself in a position. 
 
 MARTIN LEE: Yeah, I felt the whole match I was playing well. First set, I played very well. Had a big chance in the beginning of the second set, which I didn't take. Then he started to play well. Then he got on a roll for about a set and a half. It really changed at the beginning of the fourth. I lost my serve the first game, but I thought I played an all right game. I wasn't too dispirited. I was feeling very good. My body was feeling fine. The fifth set felt like the first set anyway. I think he just came out with the pass at 4-3 to break me. I actually hit a good volley. I think it was going to take a bit of magic from one of us. I thought he looked pretty tired.  
 
Q. The one running forehand was an absolute ripper, wasn't it? Sort of thing that gave him an extra lift, wasn't it? Milked it for everything he could. 
 
 MARTIN LEE: When it's so tight like that in the fifth set, it's usually a shot out of nothing that gives you the break, gives you the chance to win, and he made it. I thought I played a very good match. I dug in well when I needed to. I think I'm getting more and more belief the more matches I play at this level.  
 
Q. What will you take out of that? You had him on the ropes for good periods. The fifth set, your level of play was still way up there, wasn't it? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: Yeah. Well, this year's been great. I've been getting better and better. The last six weeks, I think I'm realizing what level I need to get to. The way I've been playing, even though I haven't been playing that well, it's all about belief. It's the times when you're not playing so well, and if you still believe, you're still in the match. If I get to that stage in every match, I'm going to win quite a few of those matches.  
 
Q. How many times have you had to play a fifth set before today? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: I think this is my fourth. This felt great today. My fitness is one of the best parts of my game. I can run all day. Today was very encouraging because I feel fine now really. I've just played five sets. Just got to keep it going.  
 
Q. Mentally, you seem an awful lot tougher, as well. I think in days gone by would it be fair to say had you won the first set, fallen two sets to one down, been broken, that could have been that, but it wasn't this time? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: No, I've been working on that for a year now, and it's got so much better. I still get a little bit angry. But it's fine if you let the anger out. If you're fine for the next point, it's perfectly acceptable. I used to get angry and still be worrying about it a set later. The match is gone by then.  
 
Q. What has been the key to help you take these steps that all mount up and mean something important for you? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: Well, I think the mental, definitely. I don't think I'm playing any different to what I have done in probably the last two or three years. I'm just believing. I'm probably playing a bit smarter, probably thinking more, not going for those 100-to-1 shots when you're down, trying to play the percentages. It's coming together nicely.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT