WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2001
Martin Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. A learning experience? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: Yeah. I just spoke to my coach about a half an hour now. I enjoyed the match a lot. Just I know what Tim did to me. He put a lot of pressure on me. Every time I dropped the ball short, he was straight on top of the net, put a lot of pressure on me that way. That's probably what I did against Pozzi first round. I just saw that extra level up from a Top 50 player to a Top 10 player. My first aim is to get into the top hundred. That's what I've got to do to all the players is what Tim did to me today.  
 
Q. What have you got to do to close that gap, to catch up to Tim and Greg and the rest of them? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: Well, just virtually what I said there. Every time I dropped the ball short, he pounced on it quickly. I think when sometimes I could have gone a bit further in when he put the ball short, I didn't take that opportunity. It was just two yards a bit too slow. I was a bit too slow onto the ball, then he passed me, whereas he was straight onto that ball. It made me tough to pass him.  
 
Q. How did you find the whole Centre Court experience? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: I enjoyed it. It was great. The crowd were rooting for Tim mainly, a bit for me. I would just love to get my ranking up high enough so I can play on there a lot more.  
 
Q. Did you ever feel like smashing a racquet? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: No. I felt pretty calm today. Tim was volleying very well. Every time I thought I had a chance, he came up with a big serve or a big volley. In the third set when I broke back, my game lifted a bit. I just didn't take that chance to hold my serve and try and put a bit more pressure on him.  
 
Q. If you look at rankings, you've made progress this year. You're nearing a big step. Can you make that step now? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: Yeah, definitely. I've definitely got my mind right. It's much clearer than it was. When I come off matches now, I know what I've got to improve. Before, I'd be -- it would be running around in my mind. I would come off and I wouldn't learn as much. But now we immediately sit down, I talk with my coach exactly what happened in the match, what I've got to do to move forward. We know what that is now.  
 
Q. What happens now? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: I've got in a few tour events right after Wimbledon. Newport tour event.  
 
Q. You're not playing quallies? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: No. I'm going to get in one in Amsterdam or Croatia straightaway.  
 
Q. On clay? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: I'm going to play one week on clay to get ready for the hard courts, then straight out and play the quallies for Montreal and Cincinnati. I'll get in Washington before US Open. The schedule is busy, but I'm looking forward to it now.  
 
Q. Dave will be with you through all of that, will he? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: Not the first three weeks. From Montreal on, he's going to be there.  
 
Q. That first game, it was very quiet out there. I think people were sensing, is he just not going to rise to the occasion. Were you aware of that at all? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: Sometimes I find it tough to start. Today I was nervous. Just need to relax. When I won the first game, then I relaxed. But it's always tough because Tim -- in that first game, I didn't make enough first serves. He was in at the net straightaway. It was tough for me to pass.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT