WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2001
Martin Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. That was relatively comfortable? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: Yeah, well, I lost serve first game. Didn't play that bad a game. Just started a bit slow. But after last week, I was feeling very confident, and I just got into the match more and more. I felt as though I was getting better and better. That's what the scoreline said, as well.  
 
Q. Are you worried about your next opponent? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: I haven't really thought about the match at all really. Just come off. But I'm looking forward to it. I'm just going to wait and see what happens. I played Greg last week, had the chances early on, didn't take them. I know what I didn't do then. I've learned from that. I'm going to try to take them against Tim.  
 
Q. Are you aware perhaps there might be the greater support for Tim? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: Yeah, there probably will be. There will probably be a bit for me, but most of it for Tim. But I know that's going to be the way before I go on, so I'm not going to let it affect me.  
 
Q. Do you think that will help you? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: You never know. You can use the crowd both ways. Probably the less they cheer, probably means I'm doing well.  
 
Q. Do you think that he'll be under pressure because you are lower ranked, there is great pressure on him? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: Hopefully he feels pressure when I play him on Wednesday. As I say, I'm at my highest ranking ever. I'm on the way up. I'm going in very confident.  
 
Q. I think you and Barry Cowan have been consulting a sports psychologist. Is that something you think has played a significant rise in the rankings? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: Most definitely. I've been seeing a lady called Gloria Budd for about eight months now. Barry has just started seeing her. For me, it's helped tremendous. I think Barry is -- he just started and he's enjoying the work, as well.  
 
Q. He was listening to a Walkman between points. Is that something she told you to do? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: No. I think it's totally -- everyone has different ways of trying to relax. I found a way that worked for me. I think he's probably found a way that works for him. You've got to try and block everything out, especially I think when you're winning. Used to trying to look ahead. If I win the first set, I'll be thinking about who I'm playing next instead of just playing one point at a time. If you let your mind go for a second, that's when you can lose it in this game. That's the best thing that's happened to me so far is that I'm just playing one point at a time, and it's helping me tremendously.  
 
Q. How did you come to be seeing Gloria? What do you think required you to have to go see a sports psychologist? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: I think the main thing was I probably smashed 20 racquets a year. Just got too angry, got too frustrated when things are not going your way. She was the masseur at Bisham Abbey for probably six or seven years, and then she did a course on the psychology side. For me it helps a lot when you know someone, you trust someone. You can open up much better to a person that you know. I think that was the main reason, because I tried to see someone before, but it didn't work out.  
 
Q. Did you worry she could be a bit like the Eileen character from before or were you guided by people you know? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: The first couple sessions I just went to see if I liked it. I liked the way it was progressing. I think the main thing was just using my mind more, learning how to control it. It's helped in the tennis and everything else.  
 
Q. Did you have trouble getting a sponsor, smashing 20 racquets? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: No, Prince are still nice to me, still gave me racquets. This year I haven't broken one. So it's working that way, as well.  
 
Q. Was that the best tennis you think you've played in your professional career? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: I haven't really thought about the match so far. I've just warmed down. Haven't really talked to my coach much about it. But the way I was playing is the way I want to play tennis - going not so much serve-volley, but always looking to come in. That was the most thing I was pleased with today. Even though I didn't come in all the time, I was still trying to push forward most of the time. So in that way, it was a very good match.  
 
Q. Did you say to her, "I want to manage my anger"? Is that just something that happened? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: I think the first thing she said, "What do you want me to help you with?" I listed a few things. That was one of them, to not get me angry. Another thing that's helped me a lot is that probably every match I played, I was probably about ten points, I even won the points, and I was still angry in the way I won it. But now if I win a point with a bad shot, I'm happy. That was another big thing that's gone out on my game.  
 
Q. Were you angry all the time? Was it outside, as well? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: No, just on the tennis court. Off the court, I'm relaxed all the time. It just built up on the tennis court. If I thought I was playing well and deserving to be winning, suddenly the guy played a bit better, he started playing well, it wasn't my fault, I'd still think it was my fault, just get more and more angry.  
 
Q. How well do you know Tim? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: I was on the Davis Cup last time, been on the Davis Cup before. We practised together a bit down at Queen's Club. I know him quite well. I -- I think I played him once in a doubles match at Nationals about four years ago, but never in a singles match.  
 
Q. You won junior Wimbledon doubles, is that right? 
 
 MARTIN LEE: Yes.  
 
End of FastScripts.... 
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT