U.S. SENIOR OPEN
July 1, 2017
Robby Funk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Congratulations on making it to the weekend.  Tell us a little bit about what you had to go through to do that today.
ROBBY FUNK: So the last three holes?
Q. Yeah.
ROBBY FUNK: I had to shoot at least 1 over, and I got off to a bad start.  You know, it was wet.  It rained overnight.  Pulled my first drive into the left rough and got it up in front and thought I hit a good chip, and it rolled up on top of the hill and had to make a 25, 30-footer, ran by about five feet, made that, and then pardoned my way in.
Q. What holes did you play?
ROBBY FUNK: Yeah, 7, 8, 9.  I would have rather played 7, 8, and 9 than 16, 17, and 18.
Q. Did you notice Nick Faldo standing there at 9 watching you putt?
ROBBY FUNK: I didn't notice, but I found out afterwards, and I'd like to give him my sincere apologies for making that putt, and I wish he could have played also.
Q. How far was it, six feet maybe for par?
ROBBY FUNK: Yeah.  I had a real hard time with the greens.  I mean, normally I'm a good reader of the greens and putter, and I can't seem to get the ball to the hole when they're uphill.  Downhill, I don't struggle as much.  But uphill I have a hard time.  Left a 40-footer probably seven feet short and had a seven-footer for par.
Q. Did you know that was it?
ROBBY FUNK: I did know, yeah.  By my reaction afterwards?  Yeah.
Q. What was your reaction?
ROBBY FUNK: I'm pretty sure I yelled because I came in this week wanting to be low amateur.  My whole goal was to be low amateur.  It's my first Major Championship.  I played in a lot of USGA events, it's my first Senior event.
Coming back from a lot of issues.  I've had surgery on both my ankles so I'm really happy to be here.
Q. Did you hear a guy with a British accent also yelling after he made -- never mind.
What else does it mean as far as, you know, not only you're low amateur, but I believe you'll be invited back next year as the low amateur to Senior Open.
ROBBY FUNK: That's awesome.  See, I don't know what the perks are.  Yeah, I'm finding out slowly.  My eyes were set on the goal, which is being low amateur.  So I really didn't look at anybody.  I wished everybody well.
When I found out I was low, and if I could come in at 1 over, I'd be low, and that was kind of my goal.  So to be invited back, that's going to be awesome.
Q. That's great.
ROBBY FUNK: Not having to qualify for anything is awesome.
Q. Robby, congratulations.
ROBBY FUNK: Thank you guys.  Thank you so much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT