MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2013
Gary Player
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Everyone asks about the par‑3 being a tune‑up for the Masters.   Is this a tune‑up for you and Mr. Nicklaus to play at the Legends in a couple of weeks? 
GARY PLAYER:   I wouldn't say that, no, no.   That's a long way off.   The only thing that's going to help us prepare, we've got to hit a lot of balls.

Q.   You said yesterday that he would only probably do one practice round in Savannah, maybe.   Come in on Sunday.   But he was just going to have a lot of fun.   What is your expectation for playing with Mr. Nicklaus? 
GARY PLAYER:   Well, I'm very happy to play with Jack.   Obviously we've gone up together and have a lot of respect for each other, but I'm not doing it for fun.   I want to win.

Q.   Well, he's a pretty good competitor?
GARY PLAYER:   Yeah, he is, but he said he wanted to have fun.   I'm going there to win.

Q.   You've won it before?
GARY PLAYER:   Yeah, we won it twice.

Q.   What was the situation with Bob Charles? 
GARY PLAYER:   He said he wasn't going to play and so I asked Jack to play.

Q.   Was Simon Hobday in the mix somewhere? 
GARY PLAYER:   No, Simon just came in just one time.

Q.   So instead of competing against Jack Nicklaus, to have him on your side, what did you say that mean? 
GARY PLAYER:   Whoa, that's fun.   I think the sponsors will be delighted that Jack is playing.   It's going to be very enjoyable.   Looking forward to it.

Q.   That's a serious one, today is a fun one.   Does it still give you a thrill to be back here at Augusta?
GARY PLAYER:   Yes, it is.   It's always a thrill the way they arrange things here.   It's just a paradise.   It's so beautiful. 
When I think of the experiences and I walk through Magnolia Lane every year, I walk through there and I just say a little prayer of thanks.   To win it three times, second three times, the most number of times to play in it, 15 in the Top 10, you know, the most cuts in a row, I walk through and I just say a little thank you.   It's a special place.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT