U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2004
Gary Player
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RAND JERRIS:  We're now joined by 1965 United States Open Champion, Gary Player, 74 today, plus 3 for the championship.
 GARY PLAYER:  I'm surprised you wanted to see me shooting 74.
Q.  Tell us about your day.
 GARY PLAYER:  I started off with a bogey and then a double bogey and so I was 3 over after two holes and played the rest of the round in even par.

It wasn't bad.  With a lousy start, that's a tough start.  The course was receptive to scoring well today, magnificent condition.  I'm really pleased to see the USGA leave the course as it was in the practice round.  Let people see many birdies.  People like to see birdies.  People love it out there.

I thought the course was in very, very good shape.  Lucky it wasn't too hot.  It made a big difference.  I felt sorry for Douglas today; he had a 3 under par playing the 18 hole and finished with a 7.  That's a terrible way to end the day.
Q.  Are you pleased with the way you were able to finish up?
 GARY PLAYER:  I hung in there.  I had a bit of paralysis of analysis with my swing there this year, chopping and changing, and I have been practicing very hard.  The first two days I practiced very hard here, and four holes to go I changed the whole swing.  It's a tough game, so I have had a bit of paralysis of analysis.  I'll hang in there.
Q.  The way you started, did you feel like you were still back in Ireland?
 GARY PLAYER:  No, no, no, no, I was settled with the time change.  No excuses, my friend.
Q.  Well, you of all people would get used to a time change as much as you travel.
 GARY PLAYER:  I've got a few little things I do having traveled 14 million miles, probably more than any man that's ever lived.  I've learned to have little tricks or ideas that really make a big difference.
Q.  Anybody who played last week in Ireland really doesn't have an excuse not to be ready to play here in your mind?
 GARY PLAYER:  They have a little bit, a little bit, because any time you have a five-hour time change, according to medical reports, it takes one day per hour to get acclimated, so they're two days short.
Q.  What are your tricks?
 GARY PLAYER:  You'll have to read my new book.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT