SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2011
Jim White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How was that on a day like today? Are you pretty happy with that?  
 JIM WHITE: You know, I was. I felt comfortable on the practice rounds, played pretty much in the same conditions. It was wet as heck during the practice rounds and it wasn't a whole lot better today. So anyway.   
 I got off to a decent start and then I made a 3-putt and then I hit a tree and then I made, I went bogey, double bogey, bogey, three holes in a row. And then played the last 13 holes 2-under with no bogeys.   
 So it was, I was not very comfortable out there. But it's the hardest thing when you haven't played, I play one of these a year or one every couple years and they say, you know, get rid of the nerves and play like you know you can play.   
 And so it was a challenge really and I really shook it off. Personally I played good after the rain delay too. I kind of got it going and then we broke for whatever, two hours. So I was very happy to get around the way I did. Hopefully I can play better tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Now in 2004 I think you were the low club pro here?  
 JIM WHITE: I was.   
  
  Q. And so do you think that experience has helped you and also the second part of that question is how about the course changes.   
 JIM WHITE: Well, yes, certainly any time you come to a course you had a little success on and unfortunately the success I had back then was under similar weather conditions, so a lot of stopping and starting and just mucky, sloppy stuff.   
 The course was playing, you know, a couple longer holes out there, that 6th hole is a bear. There's nothing you can do. You hit it down there as far as you can you still got a hybrid in there and that was to a front pin today. So they put that thing back another 20 yards and you're hitting 3-wood into that green. So that's not a lot of fun.   
 But they had a couple of tees up, they had 7 up to a place where I had never played it before in the practice rounds or tournament rounds. So that was an interesting hole today. Fortunately I was able to birdie it.   
 But overall the changes are good, the greens are phenomenal, they roll so good. And they got the course in as good a shape as could be expected with all the rain they have had.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT