SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2009
Jim White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You had a very exciting finish to your round. 
 JIM WHITE: Yeah, it was kind of one of those -- it was a weird day. I got off to a -- didn't make any putts, missed greens, chip it up four feet, make it. I did that a few times on the front nine. 
 Then I made a couple birdies on nine and 10 and thought I was back. 
 And then I tripled 11. 
 And then I just, I don't know, it was a comedy of errors out there today. But I played with two good guys and they both played pretty good. So it was fun, it was a great day, the weather is perfect, the golf course is perfect, so you can't really complain too much.

 Q. Tell us about the birdie on one of the toughest holes on the course. 
 JIM WHITE: Well I got kind of a bad little kick and just got in the corner of the bunker back there and I had about 180 yards and I hit a solid shot, but just got it a little left and it was kind of in that first cut, I had a pretty good lie and it was one of those lucky shots. I liked it when I hit it and I liked it really when it got about two feet away and, hey, it went in the hole. So you need to get some of those breaks. We got a couple bad ones today, so it's nice to get a good one. 

 Q. You're one of 10 club pros who made the cut. What are your goals for tomorrow?
 JIM WHITE: Well, it would be nice to get it under par once out here. I think it's doable. It's very tough and the greens are really tough, but if you keep the ball in play and you hit a few quality shots out there, which I have every day, I just could have easily got it under today with putting a little better.

 Q. Have you talked to anybody from back home at your club?
 JIM WHITE: Well, I had a few texts and talked to a few people, yeah. Everybody was kind of playing early yesterday and then just hanging around all day waiting to see if I made the cut. 
 So I heard from some people. So it was fun. It was fun making the cut. You just never know, it's always going to be tough when you don't play much and you don't have much of a short game, you're always kind of working pretty hard out there to kind of hang around. So it was nice to get to the weekend and hopefully I'll play a little better tomorrow. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT