U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2015
Lydia Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  So first of all, when you saw that you drew Nelly Korda, she's kind of a big junior, what were you thinking or what did you do to prepare or what did you know about her?  LYDIA CHOI: Well, I saw her sister on the first tee, and I was like, oh, Jesus, but I don't know, I just -- I didn't think much of it.  I just kept staying patient.  Like I wasn't hitting the ball very well, but my motto today was just keeping patient.  Towards the end, my putts started going in, so that was great.   Q.  Is that kind of how you normally are, a strong putter?  LYDIA CHOI: Actually, no, I'm a ball striker.  But my short putts are what made it for me today.  I'm really proud of myself.   Q.  Was there a particular turning point in the match where you were maybe able to start pulling your game together?  LYDIA CHOI: I think on No. 15, the par-5.  I mean, that was a turning point because I just -- I think that was the turning point of when I started hitting my drives well.  I don't know, it seemed like Nelly was -- she hit her drive to the right, so I think it just gave me a little bit more comfort.  I think that was the main turning point.   Q.  You'll be a sophomore at UCLA; is that right?  LYDIA CHOI: Uh-huh, I just finished my freshman year.   Q.  Were you on the NCAA team?  LYDIA CHOI: Yes.   Q.  You guys had maybe a little rougher national championship --  LYDIA CHOI: Uh-huh, we did.   Q.  But you regrouped well it seemed like as a team at the end.  What did you take away from that?  LYDIA CHOI: I just thought it was the best experience.  The course was just so difficult.  We weren't -- I don't think we were prepared for what was coming for us.  Our team particularly, we don't do well on Bermudagrass, and that was all Bermuda, like 11 stimp.  It was really difficult or challenging I would say.  Yeah, we're just looking forward to next year.  We're going to have a better team, and hopefully we do better at the national championship and we get to match play.   Q.  Can I ask you some detail questions?  LYDIA CHOI: Sure.   Q.  Now, you were in your high school Hall of Fame I think I read?  LYDIA CHOI: Yeah.   Q.  Tell me about that.  LYDIA CHOI: Well, there aren't many golfers in Beverly Hills.  There weren't many junior golfers.  I did play on the boys' team.  Yeah, we were pretty successful.  Yeah, but the Hall of Fame, it's a big deal, but I didn't have much competition at the time.   Q.  That's kind of cool, though, played on the boys' team.  Do you think you learned a lot from that?  LYDIA CHOI: I think so, playing with longer hitters.  I'm not particularly long, so I think that really helped me get used to hitting my hybrids into every hole.  That's kind of how I felt today because Nelly is a long bomber.   Q.  Are you --  LYDIA CHOI: Yeah, I was probably, like, 40 yards behind.  She hit a tree on 15, and I was joking to -- well, my brother was laughing at me, like oh, well, you finally outdrove Nelly.   Q.  Well, hey, anything helps, right?  LYDIA CHOI: Yeah, it was just a joke.   Q.  Does your brother play golf, too?  LYDIA CHOI: Yeah, yeah, he takes it more as a hobby.   Q.  Does he go to UCLA?  LYDIA CHOI: No, no, he was just wearing the hat.   Q.  Where do you go?  ALEX CHOI: I graduated from UC San Diego, and now I'm a full-time -- now I'm just a brother.   Q.  What do you do for a living?  ALEX CHOI: I run my own business.  I sell stuffed animals.   LYDIA CHOI: Big, huge, stuffed teddy bears.  It's called Kriza Bear.   ALEX CHOI: K-r-i-z-a B-e-a-r.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT