BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 31, 2015
Ganbaatar Dagvadorj
Enebish Ganbat
Florent Geroux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: If I could have your attention, I'm happy to introduce the winning connections of the TwinSpires Breeders' Cup Turf Sprint. That great gelding is Mongolian Saturday. We're pleased now to be joined by trainer Enebish Ganbat, as well as owner of Mongolian Stable, Ganbaatar Dagvadorj. Congratulations to all of you. 
GANBAATAR DAGVADORJ: Thank you. 
THE MODERATOR: We also have winning jockey Florent Geroux. Thanks for making it by.
FLORENT GEROUX: Thank you. 
THE MODERATOR: I'd like to start with Enebish. Tell us your reaction to the win and what's been going through your mind the last 10 or 15 minutes. 
ENEBISH GANBAT: Oh, I was thinking he come first or second. Because I bet, win and place. And this horse, we bought here four years ago in Keeneland's sale here. This year, he begin to doing very good and I become more experienced. Because five years ago, I switched from Mongolian long distance to thoroughbred training. 
THE MODERATOR: I've heard you say that this week, that you learned a lot in the past year. Last year, his campaign wasn't near to the level we saw this year. Tell us more what you've learned about training top class thoroughbreds here in the United States in the past couple years.
ENEBISH GANBAT: In Mongolia, we have 25 kilometers, 15 mile. This is one kilometer [indiscernible]. It's sort of different. But to understand it, I spent four years. And from last year, I begin to understand this is how to feed, how to train, how to breed. It's totally different.
Mongolian people are horsemen people. We know a little bit about what horses feel. Need to feel, contact horse very good. 
THE MODERATOR: I love trainers that specialize in 25 kilometers, shortening up to five and a half. That's my favorite angle [Laughter]. Talk about the campaign this year. You've been everywhere from ThistleDown to Parks. Just talk about his progress throughout 2015. 
ENEBISH GANBAT: Yes. This year really want to participate in Breeders' Cup. To get points, I had to go to all the grade stakes. We went two times Pennsylvania [indiscernible]. We [indiscernible] by nose and we get four points, we come here. And I really think this horse run good here. 
THE MODERATOR: I would say so. Ganbaatar, I believe we have a translator here with you. We would just like to hear about your feelings winning this race and what a Breeders' Cup victory means to you. 
GANBAATAR DAGVADORJ: It's been an honor to participate in this big event. And for us, it's a big dream as Mongolians to participate in this big event. And as a Mongolian, we ride horses starting at age four. So, yeah, it's our tradition just to raise with the horse. Being a Mongolian, it's part of our tradition.
We've been in the Guinness Records for‑‑ we raced 4,000 horses.
ENEBISH GANBAT: In one race. 
GANBAATAR DAGVADORJ: Being in the Guinness Record. So he is here to thank for the trainer, Ganbat, jockey, rider. And we're honored to be participating in this big event. 
THE MODERATOR: We're very honored to have you all here. Florent, we'd like to hear from you. Tell us about the trip and you got out of there pretty cleanly. 
FLORENT GEROUX: Yes, very good. Coming from the 14 hole, you need to establish your position pretty quickly. And don't wait too long to make your decision. 
From there, my horse broke very sharply, and lightly, and I was about to be in good position right off the bat. And come the turn, I was only like second position. My horse was nice, relaxed, and when I asked him turning for home, he shows a lot of heart and give me a very good kick. 
So he's a very nice horse. I've been trying to get on this horse for quite a few time. Those people are also a fan of mine because they're based in Arlington Park. They were a great supporter for me. When I win big races, they cheer me on. It worked out during the year because I was gone so much out of town, so I couldn't ride him, but I've been trying to get on this horse for quite a few times. I've been knowing him, I breezed him quite a lot few times in Arlington Park before coming here to Keeneland, and I rode him here opening weekend. The race was off the turf. 
That day, we had number one. Not very good when you sprint races, you have to go. You don't have any other choices. 
But today, from the 14 hole, I was able to like save ground and take my position and also getting back a little bit, getting him to relax. So made all the difference. 
THE MODERATOR: Very good. Enebish, we'd like to learn a little bit more about your background. I understand you came to the U.S. about five years ago. Can you tell us what inspired that move when you first came to the States to train horses? 
ENEBISH GANBAT: I didn't understand. Could you repeat your question? 
THE MODERATOR: Tell us more about when you first came to the U.S. five years ago and what made you make that decision. 
ENEBISH GANBAT: Because Mr.Ganbaatar and me is old horsemen in Mongolia. He was training horses, I training here. He owns hundreds horses. I trained 200. But this is different, cheaper horses, not like expensive horses. Some people say Mongolian people born to ride. Everybody was raised on horses and our horses, field horses. We were talking, why we not trying bigger market here? 
THE MODERATOR: So why the U.S. as opposed to, say, going to England or trying in another? 
ENEBISH GANBAT: First we go to Australia studying. After France. I didn't speak French. So U.S. is largest thoroughbred market. Here's 50,000 mass. England, just 10,000. Why we come here. 
THE MODERATOR: Very good. I'm sure we have some questions in the room. Does anybody have a question for the Turf Sprint winning connections? 

Q. Would you consider going to Ascot now? Because you're not going to need be‑‑
THE MODERATOR: The question is would they consider Ascot now? 

Q. Royal Ascot. 
ENEBISH GANBAT: Now we'll see. Our horse can run anywhere on the turf. Now I point, I nominated to Hong Kong 13 December. Maybe we'll go there. Also, Ascot. So I'd really like to go with Japan, yeah. So England is my dream. This is a national event of thoroughbred horses. We like to come to run over there. Also, maybe Dubai. There should be horse good legs there. 
THE MODERATOR: Maybe tell us a little bit more about a few years back, when you acquired this horse at Keeneland and what stood out about him and what attracted you to Mongolian Saturday. 
ENEBISH GANBAT: Why did I buy this horse? 
THE MODERATOR: Why did you buy him? 
ENEBISH GANBAT: Four years ago, we come and another great Mongolian trainer come to help me, okay. I before had very good one horse by Any Given Saturday. He was very fast horse, but he has [indiscernible] problem. His name was Mongolian Stack. He just one time around, second. 
And I told this Mongolian great trainer, let's go to see all sons of Any Given Saturday. We go to see all sons and Mongolian. He said, I like this horse. Okay, let's buy, and $60,000.

Q. How important is this victory back home? Do you think there are lots of people who follow this? 
ENEBISH GANBAT: Oh, yeah. Mongolian people love horses, yeah.

Q. Did they see it? 
ENEBISH GANBAT: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I think so. Watching now on TV. Everybody is crying over this celebration. 
THE MODERATOR: He says everybody is crying over this moment. 
INTERPRETER: All Mongolians dream to win this race. With a time difference, it's like 4:00 in the morning. Otherwise, they're all awake.
ENEBISH GANBAT: Excuse me. I want to thank you, especially the jockey, he doing this great, and my rider and my groomers and hard workers. They are helping very much me. 
THE MODERATOR: Would you mind introducing everybody on the stage right now? Could you tell us who everyone is? 
ENEBISH GANBAT: Okay. You know‑‑
THE MODERATOR: We know Florent. 
ENEBISH GANBAT: Great youngest famous French jockey. Mr.Ganbaatar, owns big company or corporation in Mongolia, he's the owner. Also, his brother, owns Mongolian Stable here. This is our exercise rider. He's doing a lot of job with this horse and telling me how this day, horse feeling.
She's a wife of Mr.Ganbaatar. A few years ago, she was Miss Mongolia. These are two of his sisters. 
THE MODERATOR: We're so glad to have you here. Mr.Ganbaatar, can you tell us more about your business background? We know now you're a successful businessman. More specifically? 
GANBAATAR DAGVADORJ: We are in the business of construction, mining, and food distillery, hotel industry. And oil too. The family is hotels in America and Holiday Inn. Plus we franchise Burger King. 
ENEBISH GANBAT: I want to say one thing. Why he married Miss Mongolia, because that was one of the beautiful women and fast horses. 
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations on all accounts 
[Laughter]. Ladies and gentlemen, Mongolian Saturday is the winner of the TwinSpires Breeders' Cup Turf Sprint. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT