PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2011
Danny Balin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can you talk about the whole experience for the week, what was it like for you? 
 DANIEL BALIN: To be have I club pro playing in the PGA Championship, it's every young club pro dream's come true. Great week, great facility, awesome golf course, all of the volunteers and the people that are all working at the event were awesome and, just something you remember from the rest of your life.
 I don't know what we got at the club, I'll probably stay around for the weekend. Yeah, it will be tough going back to the club, but you know, with all of the support that they have given me, it will be nice to get back home. I wish I was playing the Tour and going to the next stop, but, just another dream or another goal to accomplish.

 Q. A dream come true, huh?
 DANIEL BALIN: No doubt about it. This is definitely a dream come true to be able to play in a major with guys like Tiger and Phil and all of the top players in the world. Just, you know, words can't really describe the feeling. 

 Q. Do you pinch yourself sometimes; is it surreal?
 DANIEL BALIN: No it doubt about it, it's surreal, absolutely. My goal is to try to play the Tour, and second best is to be a teaching pro or a club pro. Makes me want to work a lot harder on my game. I learn a lot out here with all of the guys playing and just how they go about their business and watching them. Hopefully be here next year.

 Q. Lessons you learned that you are taking back with you for next time?
 DANIEL BALIN: Yeah, just kind of keep your emotions in check, not really let all of the surroundings kind of get to you. I was a little nervous yesterday, and playing great coming in here, I thought this week was going to be a little different than it was, but you know, when you've got thousands of people watching you, you never know how your emotions are going to react. But just got to keep experiencing them and hopefully some day we'll make the cut and go onto bigger and better things.

 Q. Has it sunk in, the 27,000 PGA professionals, you're one of 20 club professionals to be here? 
 DANIEL BALIN: Yeah, I mean, it's a big honor to be able to represent are The PGA of America in our championship. I mean, it's a tough, tough qualifying way to get to the PGA Championship, and just to be able to play in the championship, I haven't been playing golf for that long, and to be able to play in in the only the PGA Championship, but my second in a row, it's awesome. And just a lot of hard work paying off and hopefully we'll be able to do it again next year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT