WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 6, 2009
Melvin Mora
Luis Sojo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Venezuela manager Luis Sojo.  
  
  Q. I want to ask you for the line-up, for the team line-up. And secondly, if you could talk to us about what you're feeling right now in comparison to the first Classic. How do you compare the different feelings and emotions that are going on?  
 LUIS SOJO: Well, basically with the line-up, we're starting with Endy Chavez in center field, Melvin Mora at third, right field, Miguel Cabrera, at first base, Magglio Ordonez, in left field, Carlos Guillen, the designated hitter, Jose Lopez at second base, Ramon Hernandez at shortstop, (indiscernible), and Cesar Izturis at shortstop.   
 And the feeling we have, basically, in comparison to 2006, it's enormous. It's a tremendous feeling. And I don't know if you remember 2006, the first round after the press conference, I told you I was really worried after Philadelphia because of the way that the people were batting, despite the fact that they're very big names on their own respective teams. But reality is quite different. They weren't in the proper physical condition this year.   
 Yesterday, I left a smile on my face because, obviously, they're ready. And the most important thing is chemistry, how they feel. They've been talking, and they have a real objective. They want to vindicate the country. They're hungry for a win, and this has really set my mind at ease.   
 But, at the same time, we have to do the small things to get the win, and it's a very complex game. So if you don't execute it, obviously, you're not going to get a win.  
  
  Q. After the end of 2006, we had a meeting with the Venezuelan team, and there were rumors that you didn't want Luis Sojo, and now, basically, all the people that didn't want to be on the team, that they're on here, and how do you feel about that?  
 LUIS SOJO: Well, you know, in 2006, actually the controversy didn't really happen after the Classic. It was about a year before, last year basically. And there were a lot of logistical problems, and that's why a lot of people assumed. But like I always said, I've never had a problem with any player. There's been a lot of comments, but I've always believed in the face-to-face and meeting with these players.   
 And when they gave me their answer, I didn't see why Luis Sojo's name came up. Maybe under other circumstances I would have, but I wasn't able to reveal any conflict.   
 But currently, the most important thing for me is to start tomorrow, and I have the same relationship with them. We haven't had any conversations about what happened in 2006, because we're starting from scratch. We're starting with a new page as a manager, and we have a group of ballplayers, and we're focused more on getting the win.  
  
  Q. The first question has to do with the line-up that you just mentioned. At practice, you had hoped for Carlos Guillen in left field, and you had commented that Magglio would alternate throughout. Now, we see that Magglio Ordonez is going to be in left field, and Carlos Guillen is going to be as a designated hitter. What are you doing? How come he is in left field at this point, given that Guillen is just starting? Basically, I just want clarification on that. There's a lot of expectation in Venezuela. They want the team to be the champion of the World Baseball Classic. Do you think this team has the ability to do that? And if so, why do you believe that this team can be raising its arms in Los Angeles.  
 LUIS SOJO: It's time that for -- I think for me, communication is incredibly important. I had a conversation when we were visiting in Detroit, and I asked them, everyone we know, that Magglio was going to be in right field, and that he was going to be the right fielder and -- with the Detroit Tigers. And that transformation that he did in the line-up, it was to where we were going to use him and Carlos was going to play -- Carlos is going to be in left field and Miguel is going to be on first base. We were talking about it with Andres Galarraga and myself in terms of Carlos, because we know that this guy is an athlete, and he is going to catch the fly balls, and anything that comes at him.   
 But we didn't want Carlos to believe that it's going to be a short championship, like the World Baseball Classic where his problem maybe would be more the left field. The most important part of all this, we talked about it, the three of us, and Magglio says he can play left field. And Carlos said, Well, you know I came here to win. I have won 62 games to play with Detroit Tigers, and I'm a natural outfielder.   
 He said he could play left field, and that's why we made that switch.   
 I think communication was the most important part. You shouldn't be ill at ease with the fact he is in left field. Basically, we all want to come in here to win. And I think that they accept it like gentlemen. We talked about it, and that's the most important part about it.   
 Now, how do we see the team? Why do I think we can take the Cup? Like I said from the beginning, physically, we're better prepared. Mentally, we're better prepared. And that's very important. And it's a different reality. The reality is that in the games we saw in Florida, they looked pretty good at-bat. And I told them when you want to get out of the game, you tell me. And in Miguel's case, "I want to play the full game." He says, "I want to play the full game."   
 And we said, "Okay. Let's give the other guys a chance."   
 So we knew what the main goals were, and for a player that wanted the priority to play and he wanted an extra, we were going to give to him.  
  
  Q. Could you talk to us a bit more about your opening pitchers, if you are going to use Carlos Silva tomorrow, and Felix? What would be the next game?  
 LUIS SOJO: We talked a lot with the Mariners pitching coach, and tomorrow we're going to start off with Carlos. After that, with Felix Hernandez. Carlos, because maybe he hasn't thrown us much, and Felix because he has to pitch on Saturday. It's his turn. And because Major League Baseball were faced with the fact they have to contribute.   
 How is that going to affect us? We're going to use the opening pitchers that had the one-two potential. But that's the reality of things.   
 And why Carlos and not Felix as the first game? Well, Roberto was talking to us, and he said, "Well, who would have more problems to get ready, to get to the bullpen and get ready to be the relief pitcher?"  
Well, we talked to both of them, and Felix, I think, was the one who was the clearest out of the two of them. He said that he could have that versatility and prepare it much quicker.   
 Obviously, they're two pitchers from the major leagues. Unfortunately, this is the reality of things. And on Sunday, we'll go with Armando. And Armando, we're going to see who is going to follow him, whether it's Ramon Ramirez or Enrique Gonzalez.  
  
  Q. How do you evaluate the work in the bullpen and the team practice? I am asking because obviously that was the part where we had to basically start or get it finalized last. So how is that bullpen looking and how important is that bullpen for Venezuela's aspirations for the future?  
 LUIS SOJO: Well, that was a real headache. In the last couple weeks, it was very difficult for us. We always respect the players that is going to keep playing for my team, because I have the opportunity to get the job done and we always respect them.   
 But there is a point and time where you know they get their hands behind their back. And I'm pretty -- I'm okay with us. There are people -- for one reason or another, there are people that have been proven or tested in the Caribbean, whether it's the Venezuelan league or the Caribbean major leagues, and they've done the work for several years in those different realms. And I'm very calm about the whole thing because I think he can do a good job.   
 And the basic thing is how am I going to get Francisco Rodriguez the ball. We don't have Sambrano and Santana, the absence everyone is going to notice right off the bat.   
 But they're not irreplaceable. We have to work with what we have currently. And I'm pretty sure they're going to do the job. I think this is going to be the highlight moment of these people. This is as far up as you can be in the major leagues when you don't belong to a major league team.   
 But I think that these gentlemen, this is going to be the highlight of their life. Plus they have a lot of different aptitudes to be able to get the job done. And obviously, they're men who have what it takes.  
  
  Q. How can you make that comparison? There's a lot of Venezuelans that remember what happened in the first Classic and basic the whole bunch of problems that happened. How can you tell Venezuelans that are going to see this interview before tomorrow's game, how can you describe this atmosphere that is completely different from 2006? And basically just to show how things changed as you promised, right? You promised that we're going to work, and if you could describe the whole situation.   
 LUIS SOJO: If I describe reality, I was really happy when we were told that we were going to have three exhibition games. First, was to see how we were going to mesh everyone together. We gave work to all the pitchers. We also evaluated what was happening offensively, and we always came out with a positive outcome, except for yesterday.   
 Yesterday was a game that we were scored on five times, and in this instance, it can't happen. It happened to Victor Moreno, and those -- this are things in baseball. I think we have what it takes to make it.  
 We have the chemistry. We have everything that happens since we went out to Lakeland to train. I think I didn't see the same thing in 2006. In 2009, these people are coming to be revindicated (sic). And as a manager, you perceive this. And that's what has me so relaxed and at ease.   
 Tomorrow is going be reality. And we're all hoping that reality will be advantageous to all of the Venezuelan people.  
  
  Q. At the immediate rival, Italy, can you give us some comments on the reports that you got on that team? How do you see them? We think they would be the weaker opponent, but you said several times you can't underestimate Italy. And also can you talk to us about your opponent?  
 LUIS SOJO: Yes. Obviously we have a meeting with the scouts, they gave us from the reports, and we know that Nick Punto is the one that plays with the Minnesota Twins, and he is going to be in shortstop. And there's a couple other ones whose names I can't recall at the moment. But I have a good third base report. Apparently he is the best batter they have. But we'll evaluate the reports with the scouts.   
 And what's different from 2006, is when we meet them, we hope that the pitchers will be there - and even the position players so that we can have an idea as to how each one should be dealt with.  
 And it's a World Classic. And Italy is bringing its best player, and we have to respect them. We're going to come out. Just like with Italy, we're going to play the same way against Canada or the United States, because our style here is to win. We want to go out with the same emphasis, the same mentality. Then we hope we can come out respecting every rival, every opponent.   
 But we know that Venezuela is the team to beat. Because as you saw -- well, if you haven't seen it, you'll see it tomorrow. Tomorrow, you are going to see a completely renewed team.  
  
  Q. Your first World Classic, you couldn't be in the first one, so can you talk to us about the experience you had with the team and how does it feel to represent Venezuela?  
 MELVIN MORA: It's my first Classic, and I'm proud because I'm with the ballplayers that I've always dreamt of playing with. They're my colleagues. And even Bobby Santana, unfortunately he wasn't able to come, and Carlos Guillen, I grew up with all of them, and we know each other since we were, like, 14.   
 So I think that's enough said at this point. When somebody has that kind of chemistry, and when you are playing with the ballplayers you have always dreamt to play with, to represent your country, I think you can't even weigh it. It's just an emotion that you carry within you. Whatever happens tomorrow or the day after, we're going to enjoy it together. We're going to cry together. We're going to laugh together. Because that's what we have now. We have a good chemistry in the clubhouse, and I think that's the most important thing that we have at this point.  
  
  Q. Melvin, we've seen a big change in your participation. The first round, obviously, you didn't accept it, and this one, since it was announced, you're the one that's the most interested and participated in the World Baseball Classic. How come this change?  
 MELVIN MORA: First of all, I'm from Venezuela. Even when I was younger, I loved representing my country, and I was born to compete. Even in school, I really liked getting the best grades. I was born to compete from the get-go. And now it's here, and I think it's important to -- correction. Now it's new year, and I think it's important to start a new year. We have so much strength in the clubhouse, we want to get it done.   
 All my life I've been a big fan of Luis, and we've played together, against each other in Venezuela for several years, and we know that we also have a manager that each one also has to know what to do. Because the reality of it is that we all played several years in the major leagues. And the younger ones, we'll bring them with us so we can give them the necessary preparation to conquer our goals.   
 So I think that everything's working very well. I think the only thing we're waiting is to get on the field.  
  
  Q. Melvin, you've played in the major leagues, playoffs, finals, in Venezuela you are a champion. Can you compare that, the emotion, that will to start playing today? Is there another moment in your profession that you've had the same kind of ambition?  
 MELVIN MORA: Well, there's no same pressure as Caracas versus Magallanes. As you go to the United States, you are more relaxed, because here the only thing they can do is boo you. But this pressure that people have now, I say it's a lot of pressure, because Valencia, Malachi, it's not just them looking at us. The whole world has their eyes on us. You got the best ballplayers of the world, and you are playing with the best Venezuelans out there.   
 And I think that this is a huge emotion. It's huge nervousness obviously. You do have to be nervous. If you are not, then you are not human.   
 But I think the Venezuelan fan is too demanding, and saying he is too demanding because we don't like to lose. We don't like to lose, and they're right. I came here to win.  
  
  Q. Melvin, as was already said previously, you're a man that's used to beating all your opponents. And you have that a thirst to win. Do you feel that the other -- your other colleagues are in the same boat, if they have that same feverish wish to win the competition? The second question is in terms of the Astroturf, especially you on third base. You know that you're getting the ball pretty quickly, especially with the Astroturf. So how did you deal with the Astroturf today. Or maybe you prefer playing third base on Astroturf?  
 MELVIN MORA: Well, the first question, all the ballplayers that came to the World Baseball Classic came with a will to win. If not, they wouldn't have put the uniform on. And I think the most important thing, and the way you have to understand with Venezuela, is they had a series of ballplayers that could have said no to the Classic, but they came and they represented their countries. And you got to applaud and congratulate them. Once they started doing that, they were there ready to win.   
 And today, they have the same amount of emotion. Now it's different because there's more time. And Luis told them already that we can have a -- we should have a few days of preparation. They're not going to come here because batting is not just pressing a button and start batting. It's consistency, and this happens little by little.   
 But now with all these pre-games, I think we've seen some pitches, we've seen a lot of curveballs, we've seen a lot of change-ups, and I think everybody has the necessary chemistry and the necessary will. And everybody is here to work extra early. And Galarraga, the coaches, everybody is. So they've all shown their commitment. They've stayed extra time with us, so if we need extra practice, they give it to us.   
 And not only the ballplayers and the coaches, but also even the batboys. They're all there extra time. I think it starts from the family up to the batboys. If there's -- the team has to include everyone from the administration down to the batboy.   
 And with the Astroturf in Toronto, well, you know, it's been, what, 10 years I've been on Astroturf, and Toronto is our division, the Orioles. So I don't think there's anything different.   
 That's still going to be a hot spot, whether it's Astroturf or aluminum wood, whatever you want to build it with, but I'll be there (laughter).   
  
  Q. If we continue further with Canada, U.S.A., what they're feeling is on Venezuela. The first thing, the answer is that, well, Venezuela without Santana, without Zambrano, it's good news for us, you know? How do you read that, that expectation that they have to beat Venezuela, and obviously, that vote of confidence as to who is left.   
 And then the other question for Melvin, you were the first one in the last Classic to put on your flag on your hat. And now that you have that opportunity, can you talk to us about that reality that you saw, what you saw last Classic, and you weren't there, and now you have assumed this responsibility to add on to the Venezuelan line-up?  
 LUIS SOJO: Well, in the United States and Canada, if they don't think positively of us, well, they have no reason to be here. Because it's Classic, where everyone is here to win. Santana, Zambrano. Isn't everybody? Carlos is here, Hernandez is here, Gallarraga is here, so they're people that proved themselves in the major leagues and they're here to stay.   
 I haven't seen him throw much, very little in Venezuela. Maybe a couple innings with Caracas. What I saw in Lakeland is he is a guy that knows so much. And Ramon who doesn't play with him. He has very tight pitches. We have to go on the field and give the best we can.   
 And the same way that they're thinking that maybe Santana, Zambrano aren't here, but they have to think about those nine people that are on the line-up. I think that's the most difficult thing that they have to grasp.   
 MELVIN MORA: In terms of the flag, I wear my flag all the time, even my children. I want to get their Venezuelan passports out right now. But Venezuela is the best. It's the best of the best. I think representing your country is something that has always existed in my heart. And when they tell me that all of a sudden, Oh, Venezuela, you know, whatever it takes, I'll go.   
 Obviously, there's some things you can't control. There's some things that people can't agree on. But here we are. Here I am to represent my country. And once more, along with Luis Sojo, we've share a lot for many years. And I'd say 15, 17 years in my professional career, between Venezuela, the Yankees. And we know each other very well.   
 I think that's the most important part. We're all together, and we're going to give everything. We're going to give it all. And we're going to win, even if it's cheating (laughter).  
  
  Q. Maybe you don't feel the South American heat, but United States and Canada are going to be in Round 2 when they think Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic is going to be there, and Venezuela is already planning that trip to Miami. How do you keep the team focused in the first round before talking about the second one?  
 MELVIN MORA: I talked to the guys, and they said I am the craziest guy in the clubhouse. But I tell them, I'll listen. All these are going to come to Miami, and what are we going to do once we're there? In terms of Toronto, it's surprising. When I come here and played for the league, there's a lot of Venezuelans here in Toronto. There are people from Montreal that are Venezuelan. I think tomorrow is going to be quite surprising. There's a lot of people living in Canada that are going to come support our country here in Toronto.   
 Tomorrow, there's going to be a lot of Venezuelans.   
  
  Q. Luis, logically Italy is the weakest of the group in theory. Winning tomorrow is life or death for Venezuela. If you get a victory tomorrow, it's life or death, right?  
 LUIS SOJO: Definitely. That's the focus. That's the mentality that we have to all have. The big teams always have to think big, and we're thinking about Los Angeles already. It's not going to be easy because baseball has to be played. You have to get the important things done.   
 But I have a lot of respect for Italy. We respect each one of the teams. Maybe on paper, Italy's more vulnerable, but this is a World Classic, and we have to come out with everything.   
 And that's the focus that we're going to have tomorrow. We're going to get out here to win, independently of who the rival is.   
 And that's my job, as well as the coaches. We have to keep that focus and that mentality in order to get the win. And that's the most important part, I believe.  
 MELVIN MORA: When I hear the comment about the weakest team, I don't believe that. I don't believe in a weak team. Because if you look at last year, Tampa Bay was in the World Series. And I think if you do what you have to do, you can win. If you do your routine plays and you have a little luck, then you can win.   
 So it doesn't matter if it's the smallest team. I think Italy has a good team, and they got to come out the same way as we do with the United States. I don't believe in weakness, and I think we have to come out with the same will to win as everybody else.  
  
  Q. How about the fact that you don't have the possibility of the one-two for Carlos Guillen and Felix Hernandez or vice versa. That one-two, that you call, of having Silva and Hernandez in the next game, are you a little bit perturbed by that?  
 LUIS SOJO: I am a little ill at ease about that, because we had a plan. But unfortunately, we have to respect the Major League Baseball rules. And with contact that we had with people and their respective teams, that's what we have to do. We have to work based on that.   
 The first win is extremely important for us. We have to come out to play. It's something that we can't control. We have our arms tied behind our backs, and we have two guys that have been tested and proven in the major leagues. And so we want to go out there and we want to go out there to win in the first game so we can win both our first games.   
 With these guys, I'm very -- I'm very relaxed. I think in 2006, I came out with all that stress, but this is not the case this year. This year I'm very relaxed. I'm very confident in our team, because we have to get out and give it all. And I know that the guys are ready for it.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Luis. Thank you, Melvin.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT