MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 9, 2018
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/B. Pera   
2-6, 6-2, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish, please.   
 Q.  It seems that you like to come back in the matches.  How do you feel?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I have to come back whenever I lose the first set.  Well, at the end it's a tough match.  There are no easy matches, no free lunches.  Today I didn't have so much energy, but these are just things that happen.  We have to face it.  At the end you have to fight, you have to be there all the time.   
Well, overall I am happy because it was a difficult match.  It wasn't on my side from the beginning, so I had to come back, as you said, and I suffered quite a lot.   
 Q.  How do you feel physically after two difficult matches?  In between the second and third sets, your coach was talking with you.  What did he tell you?  Was it key for today's victory like yesterday?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, yeah, it's always helpful when Marc come onto the court.  It's always to add something.  I had been playing two hours, and yesterday was also a tough match with a lot of emotions.  To recover from a match like that is not easy.  It's not easy to recover and to be 100%.  That's what you want, but you don't always manage to have it.   
Perhaps that's why at the end of the match, I was just resting.  Now I have to think about the good things.  I wanted the match to be over.  I didn't want to have a really, really long match like yesterday.  I could also see she was starting to play better towards the end of the match.   
Well, there are things that you see in a match like today.  I just wanted to stop her.  That's why I tried to talk with Marc to know what to do.  He just told me to be patient.  He told me not to look for unnecessary shots, tricky shots, just to go for my game.  I think that I did a very good end of the match overall.   
 Q.  With this result you managed to make your best result since 2015.  How do you see facing Caroline after these two intense matches?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: At the end I don't really care about the opponent because it's been proven and we have seen that it's very difficult.  We have to compete.  Every single player knows how to play really well out there.  At the end it's what I said yesterday:  my intent is to recover, be 100%, as if it was the first match, and to face it the best possible way.   
Caroline Garcia is a tough player.  Has she already played?   
 Q.  Yes.  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Okay, she's played.  I didn't even look at the draw.   
Well, at the end we have seen that Caroline Garcia last year, especially this year since the beginning, has been making some really good results.  She's a good server, plays clean shots, very aggressive.  She can give me problems.  Perhaps it will be the most difficult match yet.   
 Q.  From today to tomorrow, I don't know if you're going to talk with your trainer about tomorrow's opponent?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: We will talk.  We will talk about today's match.  Marc already told me he wants to tell me how he saw today's match.  At the end of the day, they are the ones that read the match, know what I'm doing wrong, they see my weaknesses.  At the end of the day they see all of these things.  They are just sitting there on the side and they cannot do a lot.   
After the match, of course we will speak about today's match.  We will also talk about tomorrow's.  But we will face tomorrow's match tomorrow, when the day comes.   
We know Caroline very well.  We have trained a lot with her.  We know her game style.  We always do it this way.  This is what we do, the protocol we follow every time I play a match.   
 Q.  Yesterday you played in stadium two, today on three.  Do you prefer to play there or on center court?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I already talked about it, I prefer to play on Court 2 and 3.  When I play on the center court, it's not full of people, the court is very big.  I can't hear the people like I can hear them on Court 2 and 3.  I think the people are also closer to me when we play on 2 or 3.   
I think the central court is maybe a little bit cold, when it's not full.  Don't get me wrong, when it's full, it's amazing.  It's a pleasure to play there when the court is full.  If it was a full house, it would be great.  I know it's difficult because it's during the week, difficult to fill it up.   
 Q.  Do you know what are the strengths of Caroline?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I think that she serves really good.  I think she can give me problems with her serve.  Today we saw that with my opponent.  She was also giving me problems.  I'll try to step back from the line and move her around like I did today.   
But today was difficult.  Today her ball was bouncing quite a lot.  With Caroline, I think I'm going to do something very similar.  I will have to step forward so that her ball doesn't bounce so much.  Then the forehand and backhand, she has more or less the same one, Caroline.  But the fact that she has to move around from one side to the other, I think that's going to be the key.  I'm going to try to move her around the court quite a lot.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT