AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2018
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/A. Kontaveit
4-6, 6-4, 8-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Did you feel experience in the end was the key difference in winning out in such a close match?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, maybe yes.  But she was playing good during all the match.  So for me was really tough.  The points were really close.
Maybe yes, but I'm not sure.  I don't know how many times have she play on this court or this round.  But, well, I was nervous.  I don't know exactly.
Q. You're back in the quarterfinals.  How does that feel?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I feel really good right now.  I mean, I'm really happy.  Was two years ago, so I'm happy.  Always when you reach the quarterfinals or the finals round, you must be happy.
Q. You potentially might play Caroline Wozniacki next.  What do you make of that matchup?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, we play a lot of times together.  I know how she play.  I know how tough she is.  Will be a really tough match.  She's fighting every ball, but at the same time she can play aggressive.  She has a lot of experience on these rounds.
It will be a really interesting match.  For sure I have to be focused all the time and 100% for beat Caroline or the other one.
Q. You're the last player in the draw with a one-handed backhand.  Do you have an explanation why not a lot of girls are hitting one-handed backhands?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, maybe because tennis is going to more power, faster.  When you hit the ball with one hand, is not the same if you hit with two.  I think it's because of this.  Years ago, all the players play with one-handed.  Now we are losing this backhand.
Q. What is the advantage of a one-handed backhand?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I don't know (smiling).
No, I mean, I don't know.  I don't know how to say.  People who play with two-handed also win matches and big tournaments.  Maybe we can open a little bit more the court with the angle.  Maybe we slice a little bit better.
But I don't know.
Q. How much of an inspiration was Justine Henin for you?  You talked about it in Roland Garros years ago.
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I think a lot because we don't have too many players with one-handed backhand.  She was one of the one-handed.  I saw a lot of matches from her.
I like it because I know players, like Mauresmo, I don't know, but they slice more than Justine.  She all the time, against the Williams, against players who were taller than her, also with more power.  Yeah, was one of my favorite players when I grow up.
Q. Did you learn something from her on the backhand?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, maybe the movement.  I mean, there are a lot of styles with one-handed.  Because I was later, I make so close than her because she make and finish here.  Some players finish, but more here.
But I love to watch her play.
Q. Who has the best one-handed backhand, you or Justine?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I don't know.  I will say Justine (smiling).
Q. Did you change anything in the second set?  You were staring down the barrel there.  How did you change?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, try to be more aggressive.  I was thinking that I was playing good, but not too long, not too aggressive.  I want to play like this, but sometimes you cannot.
My team all the time they will say me, Play aggressive, play aggressive.  That's I think what I did.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT