ROLAND GARROS
June 5, 2017
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/C. Navarro
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.
Q. A tough morning for you.  She was a better player than you.  When she's playing at such a high level, it's very difficult to sustain the challenge.
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: The result speaks for itself.  She won in two straight sets, but it doesn't reflect the match as a whole.  I have to say that she played a great match.  She delivered shots with a lot of consistency.
I was late.  I was backpedaling on the court, so she played well.
The match could have changed if I had won the first game.  I was down 3-Love.  It's totally different to 1.  So she played very well, had some opportunities that I couldn't convert, unfortunately.
She was very free in her movement.
Q. What are the takeaways from this match and from the season?  You had a shoulder problem, hadn't you?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: A few days ago I already gave you an answer.  This year, after Monterrey tournament, I hadn't won three matches in a row.  So that's a positive.
The matches that I played before were totally different.  But I hope that we will be able to set up my whole game plan for the whole season.
Q. The scoreline is tough, but I think that you have delivered a good performance, so you can't blame yourself for this performance.  Are you under the impression that you have played against a future champion?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Of course there are still three matches to go in order to reach the final, but Simona Halep over the years has demonstrated that she's among the best players in the world.
But if Simona continues to play with such a level, I mean, she will be among the favorites.  So I did what I had to do, given the circumstances.  She played flawless tennis.  As I told you, I had some opportunities but I didn't convert them.  I paid the price for it.
Q. I don't know if you are aware of what happened with Garbiñe Muguruza and the French crowd.  She said that the French crowd didn't respect her.  What do you think of that?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Haven't watched the match, but the French crowd can be very harsh at times.  She mentioned a lack of respect.  Did people speak during the points, between the points?  I don't know.  We are in France where the French crowd was joyful, and that's normal, because the French crowd is supposed to support and cheer on the local players.
It's exactly the same thing in Madrid.  Garbiñe has a lot of experience.  She's the reigning champion, and she thought that she would be loved much more, but the French crowd decided to cheer on the French player.  But I can't tell you more, because I haven't seen the match.  But it's quite understandable for the French crowd to support 100% the French player and not Garbiñe, unfortunately.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT