DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 25, 2016
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously, Singapore, you're in the running.  How much are you thinking about it, especially that you were so close to making it in singles last year?  How big of a goal is it for you?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I know that Singapore is there.  I'm in, I'm in the race to go.  But when I'm in a tournament or when I go to a new match, I didn't think about this.   
I know that I have to take points, I have to win the matches if I want to go.  That's it.  I mean, try to not thinking too much because we know that Singapore is there.   
Yeah, last year I was so close.  This year I have a special illusion to be there because I think is a really good thing for my career.  Try to finish the year into the top 10 is also one of my goals at the beginning.   
 Q.  We've been talking to some of the players about Kerber being the new No. 1.  What is your reaction to that?  How do you think it affects the women's game in general that Serena, who had been there for three years, is not No. 1 anymore?  Does that affect you at all?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, in this year and maybe the last year we know that Serena, she didn't have the results.  She lost some games that we never expect.   
But for me the No. 1 of Kerber is not a surprise because she was during so many years there.  I know her.  I know how she work.  Well, she won two Grand Slams in the same year.  If you are not No. 1 with these results, it's not good.  I mean, she makes two Grand Slams, one final.  I think she really deserve.   
And, yeah, we have Serena for a long time because when Serena was good or Serena is good, I think she's in another level.  But from the last year and also this year, Serena is not the same.  But she's still there.   
Well, it's good.  A new change for tennis, for tennis fans, for us, because we know that we can have door open to be there also.  It's good.  I mean, I'm really happy for Angie.   
 Q.  Does the fact that she's 28 and she's managing to achieve this at this age perhaps give you a different kind of motivation and inspiration that at any age you can achieve these things?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, we have different kinds of players.  Players, when they are like 18 years old, they play really good, they are up there so fast.  Then the other players that go year by year making better results.   
Well, Angie is No. 1 with 28.  But yes, for me is a really good motivation because you can also win a Grand Slam.  We have so many example, like Flavia, Angie.   
Yes, tennis is changing a little bit.  Years before a lot of players who are between 18 or 21, they were there and they win Grand Slams.  Now it's changing a little bit.  Players are a little bit older.  They start to play better.  They start to win Grand Slams.   
Yeah, it's a really good middle for me.   
 Q.  You look physically stronger than before.  Your ranking is rising.  Is there any connection between physically getting better and the rising of the ranking?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: From the what?   
 Q.  From my perspective you look physically stronger and your ranking is rising.  Is there any connection with this?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, if you want to be with the top players, you have to be strong..  I mean, physically, mentally, because the tour is too long, and the tennis is taking much level for me every year.  You have to be strong.   
Yeah, I'm feeling good.  If I feel strong, I can have better results.  Also I have more experience.  I have better results year by year.  So, yeah, maybe it's a good connection.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT