U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2016
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/E. Vesnina
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You're now one of two women to reach the second week of all four Grand Slams this year.  Curious if you have done anything different this season to find consistency at the tournaments.
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: You know, when you play big events or important tournaments you want to be good or win a lot of matches.  Last year in the Grand Slam I didn't make the results.  I tried to be more focused, more relaxed, because last year ^  Z everything in some matches.
Yeah, I tried to be more relaxed.  And, well, I play good in the Grand Slams but, you know, I want more.  I don't want to lost in quarterfinals or the round before.  I mean, if I'm staying in the second week I want more.  I want to be in the final round.
Q. Do you feel under the radar here?  Is that something that you like to feel when you're at a Grand Slam?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, you know, when you are in the Grand Slam you are really more motivated.  You know, you have more points.  Also the crowd, they feel more the sport, you know.  They support really good all the players any time during the day, during the night.
I'm really happy always when I'm in the Grand Slam.
Q. This is not related to tennis.  You not only have a great tennis game, but you have a great name and great initials, CSN.  Are you familiar with the initials CSN and the music group Crosby Stills and Nash?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, you know, I love my name.  Yeah, I know sometimes the players, they only have the name and one surname.  In Spain we have two, my father and my mother's surname.  I know it's too long sometimes, so CSN is really good.  I like.  (Smiling.)
Q. And do you know what the initials CSN represent in American culture?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: No, I didn't know.
Q. There is a famous musical group with the initials.
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Oh, yeah?  Good to know.
Q. You're into the fourth round for the third time.  Can you talk us through how you're feeling right now going into the next match?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I'm really happy, you know.  Always when you won or when you reach the second week in any Grand Slam, it's always a good result.
But I say before I want more.  I'm happy for the next one.  Try to be good (Translating the prior question.)
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I don't feel like I'm in the -- I'm focused all the time in the things I have to do with my family.  Any time I go on court, I give my 100%.
Q. You played Elena once before coming into this match.  You have played quite a few times in doubles with her.  What's that like having balance in singles and doubles and playing players you have played in doubles and on the singles court.  What strategy do you have?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: It's different, no?  When you play singles you're alone, and when you play doubles you're with your partner.
But you have more support or if you don't feel good maybe your partner can help you, and when you play singles you're lone there.
So, yeah, I know Elena from a long time ago.  We play a lot of times.   Well, she was playing really good these two days before.  I know that the match for me today will be tough, but I just try to be solid.
I just try to be focused, because when you know the other player really good sometimes it's not easy, no?  Because you want to make some things, but she's there.  (Smiling.) So you have to think more time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT