AEGON CLASSIC
June 17, 2016
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. SUÁREZ NAVARRO/A. Kerber   
6-4, 1-6, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Carla Suárez Navarro, please.   
 Q.  How tired are you?  
CARLA SUÁREZ NAVARRO: Really tired.  Now after the shower, yeah, was...   
The day today was tough.   
 Q.  Is this the toughest schedule you've had?  
CARLA SUÁREZ NAVARRO: Well, you know, when you play singles and doubles, sometimes you have to play two matches.  You spend a lot of time in the club.  But a long time ago, I don't remember that I play two singles in the same day, yeah.   
 Q.  Talk about the match with Angie.  It was a very, very tight match.  
CARLA SUÁREZ NAVARRO: I think we play a really good level.  It's tough for me.  Angie fighting all the time until the end.  She's a good player.  She's with a lot of confidence.  She really improve her game from the last month.   
I played really good.  The second set, I was so-so.  I feel tired a little bit.  But I played a really complete match.  I play aggressive in important moments.  I finish a lot of points in the net.  When I play like this, it's much easy for me.   
I'm really happy with the way I play, because Angie was tough today.   
 Q.  That's three three-set matches now.  Whatever happens between now and the end of the week, you must be very happy?  
CARLA SUÁREZ NAVARRO: And, yeah, I really appreciate that because I was on court with Svitolina one day, then I was another day, like another match and also with Petkovic.  We were yesterday on court, today on court.  I feel like I play five matches this week.   
This is really positive.   
 Q.  Different types of players as well?  
CARLA SUÁREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, yeah, all the time was different movement, different styles.   
I'm really happy, because, you know, when you come from the grass season, you want to spend a lot of time on court and try to play a lot of matches.  I have really a lot of time on court.   
 Q.  On the other side of the coin, Madison's had it quite easy this week.  How do you tackle that one, having had very different schedules this week?  
CARLA SUÁREZ NAVARRO: For me, the most important right now is recover tonight, try to be 100% tomorrow.  It will be difficult for me because I feel tired.   
Well, Madison serve really good, so I think the points will be not too long.  I don't have to run a lot I think because she play, like, for one or two hits.   
She's playing good.  She's in the top 20.  I don't remember if we play before a match.  I don't remember.  But we practice sometimes.  When we practice, for me, was tough.   
I think one really important thing for tomorrow is try to return all the balls that I can.   
 Q.  Do you feel like you played more aggressive than usual because the grass court allowed you to?  
CARLA SUÁREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, the grass, you have to play more aggressive.  I can run a lot, but here you can't defend like you want.  You have to play more aggressive even if you don't want to run.   
 Q.  Grass might not be historically your favorite surface.  Does a week like this give you a different mindset going into Wimbledon?  
CARLA SUÁREZ NAVARRO: Well, all the time I go on court on grass I try to play aggressive, try to think that I can play good on grass.   
Well, I have good matches here, try to have also good matches in Eastbourne.  Then the final test is Wimbledon, you know.  Try to be ready for Wimbledon.   
In Wimbledon, all the players are there.  The best players, you know.  Women's tennis right now is really close.  All the matches are difficult.   
 Q.  Talking of women's tennis and especially women's tennis in Spain, how special was it for you to see Garbiñe win the French Open?  
CARLA SUÁREZ NAVARRO: For me, it's emotional.  We spent a lot of time together.  We are good friends.  I know how she works for be there.  She make history for herself, for Spain, for the women's tennis.  I'm really happy for her.   
 Q.  What impact do you think that will have on women's tennis in Spain?  
CARLA SUÁREZ NAVARRO: Well, I don't really know.  All the players that play tennis in Spain, we want to play the best way we can.  Well, maybe, I don't know.  I don't know which one is the key.  But I know the men's tennis in Spain was really good for a long time.  Now try to enjoy the present of tennis, women's tennis in Spain.   
 Q.  What things have you been doing to keep yourself amused during rain delays?  
CARLA SUÁREZ NAVARRO: No, I talk with my team.  I read a book.  We play billiards.  We saw the Euro Cup.   
 Q.  Do you rate Spain's chances?  
CARLA SUÁREZ NAVARRO: Yes.  Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT