ROLAND GARROS
May 26, 2016
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/Q. Wang   
6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   
 Q.  A very solid display on court.  How did you feel?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I felt great.  From the very beginning I felt fresh.  I was determined, very focused.  Everything went well from start to finish.   
The last five minutes were a little bit tough, but on the whole, it was a very good match, a solid display on my part.   
 Q.  Moving away from the match, you will have to think a little bit.  Can you remember your first match here, your first Grand Slam match here?  I'm talking about the main draw.  I can help you if you want.  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: With Pauline Parmentier.  Yes, I remember that match.  We were supposed to play, but it was a rainy day.  So the match was postponed.  And so much the better, because I had a pain in one of my muscles.  It was on court No. 17, and it was a three-setter.  This is what I can remember.  No more than that.   
 Q.  How would you assess your game?  Any new objectives?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I have forgotten about my objectives.  For me, it's match after match, as usual now.   
So in tennis you set yourself a lot of objectives, but that's never been the case for me.  I don't know who will be the next opponent, Cibulkova or Konjuh.  Cibulkova is a tough opponent.  With Konjuh, haven't played against her, if I can remember.   
This is already the third round, so I want to improve my game.  It will be a tough match.  Physically I'm okay.  Tomorrow I will be able to rest, so I will be in form on Saturday.   
 Q.  On your free days, what do you do?  Anyplace that you would like to visit?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: The afternoon before a match, I try to have a rest in my room.  But I came here early, so I managed to visit some places.  Montmartre, the Eiffel Tower.  I visited du Louvre Museum in the past.  I cruised on the river Seine.  I have visited many places.   
 Q.  So the Olympic list will be established after Roland Garros.  Are you going to play the mixed doubles with whom?  The captain is here at the French Open.  I don't know if you can speak out.  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I plan to play the mixed doubles, so with the mixed doubles there will be three competitions, but I have talked with David Ferrer, and I would play mixed doubles with David Ferrer.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT