MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 4, 2016
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. STOSUR/C. Suarez Navarro
4-6, 6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. How are you feeling?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I don't feel good.  You know, I was on court.  I try to win, try to play, but I don't feel good.  Sam play a really good match, so she deserve to win today.
Q. Do you feel any worse than yesterday or you feel the same?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, different.  Not worse, but different, yes.  I have pain in my mind.  I was today all the time in my room, and was tough to play today.
Q. What about next week in Rome?  Are you going to travel straightaway or reevaluate your plans?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, I go to Rome maybe tomorrow just to practice there a few days before the tournament.  Yeah, finally we fly tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.
Q. Why did you compete given your current status?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, good question.  At the end of the day you're at home and it's a very important tournament for me.  I didn't want to fail all the people that are here.  I didn't want to let them down.  I think that to stay in my room wouldn't make me any better.
At the end of the day, we live for this.  People buy tickets to come here and see us playing, and I didn't want to let them down.  Of course sport is not only to win a tournament, it's also to show that you can get up when things are not working properly.
Being home it was the only chance I had, so I had to go out and play.
Q. About the two sets, second and third set, Xavi was trying to cheer you up knowing that you couldn't play any better, that you had to be out there.  This is one day you'll remember because you were able to go out there and play, isn't it?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, it's true that once you're out there you have to think as little as possible and give your 100%.  I think today he supported me a lot, because he couldn't say anything else than what he just said.  Every single moment he tried to give me energy, positiveness, and I tried my best.
It's true that in one moment I just didn't have any strength, and I think that Sam was also playing really well.  Perhaps at some moments I could doubt a little bit and be a little bit nervous.  You know, I didn't realize that she was nervous or anything, and I think she had a very good match.  I give her all the credit.
As I said before, it's just in those moments you have to show that you can just step up and try your best when things are not going your way.
Q. During the match you talked several times with Xavi.  Do you leave Madrid thinking that you've won already or no?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, of course I put all the effort in it.  I've been all day in my bed.  I just woke up to have breakfast half an hour and then I went back to my bed, back to sleep.  I woke up to have lunch and then I went to sleep again and then I just came here.
I've taken all the possible drugs to be in in my fittest way.  Just couldn't do it.  It's a pity, because at the end of the day they are very important tournaments and you want to do well.
Because, for example, in Doha and Indian Wells and Miami I was feeling great, but in Miami and here I couldn't compete at the level I wanted to.  These things just hurt.
At the end of the day, you train a lot and prepare yourself for those tournaments and then you're not able to do as well as you want.  I went out on the court because of the people, because of my team, my family, and I had a lot of support.  I really want to thank them because of that.  I think today, the people, I would just give them a ten.
Q. Having a look at the draw, do you leave Madrid a little bit upset because maybe you have let an opportunity go?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: No, no.  I said yesterday already the people that are winning matches are doing things well.  On my side of the draw we still had Madison Keys, Halep, so I don't feel that I have missed an opportunity.
I have missed the opportunity to give my 100% because I wasn't able to, but I don't think that I missed an opportunity because some players were not playing or because some players withdrew.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT