MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 3, 2016
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/S. Lisicki   
6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations on your victory.  How did it go from your perspective?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I feel really happy, you know.  Today I have really bad cold so I tried to be on court.  I tried to play my game.  You know, I was one hour or court.   
I feel good.  I win.  It's the most important for me right now.   
 Q.  You and Garbine have pulled out of doubles.  Any particular reason?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yes, because I don't feel really good to play doubles today, so I have to withdraw.   
 Q.  Last question in English:  We saw Garbine go out yesterday.  Does being the last remaining Spanish player in the draw add to the pressure for you today?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: No, no more pressure, you know.  I play at home.  I feel really motivated about this tournament.  I'm happy to be in the next round.   
I'm trying to be in the final rounds in this tournament.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish, please.   
 Q.  Maybe because of the conditions today you said you had a bad night.  Do you think that gives more merit to your victory?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, yeah, I wasn't expecting a match in two sets given how I was feeling today.  But as I said, I tried to be out there on the court.  I tried to focus and go point by point, game by game.   
Overall I think she hasn't done a great match, so I could take advantage of that.  Well, I'm really happy to be able to win in two sets.   
 Q.  Once you go on the court in the conditions that they were today, how important re the words you received from Xavi at the end of the first set where you were saying you were having a performance of three out of ten, talking about your strength.  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, before starting the match I had already spoken with Xavi.  He knew how I was feeling.  It's true that before the match I was feeling a little bit better than during the match.  Perhaps it was the heat or whatever, but I felt that I didn't have any strength.   
I had a headache and I felt a little bit tired.  I was just playing automatically without thinking.  Well, when Xavi came on the court I told him I wasn't giving my 100% and not feeling good.  Well, he tried to tell me that I had to hold on.  I had to try to continue.  That we could end the match properly.   
And that's the way it was.   
 Q.  During every day of the tournament, one of the favorites have exited the tournament, some of the top 10.  How do you see your match against Sam Stosur?  Do you think you have more possibilities of winning the tournament?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, you know, I think that women's tennis is very tight.  Everything is very close.  You know, these results happen quite often, that some players with a lower ranking beat top players.  This happens often.  That doesn't mean I have more possibilities.   
At the end of the day, the players that beat other players, it means they are playing well and they're very confident.  I think I said this many times.  In the end, the most important match is always the next one.   
It's something stupid to think about other matches.  Tomorrow it will be a tough match.  I played her many times.  She serves very well.  She has a very good forehand.  She has a lot of experience on the tour, so it's going to be a complicated match.   
I'll try to recover this evening as soon as possible.  Tomorrow I'll also try to recover.  Well, I'll have to fight as much as I can.   
 Q.  I would like to know a little bit about your symptoms.  Headache?  Do you have a cold?  What is it?  I see you're coughing.  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah.  I think I have a cold, yes.  But it's true that when you go out there under the sun you can have a little bit of a headache when you have a cold.  Also because all of the drugs that I had before going out there my stomach was hurting a little bit.   
 Q.  How about your stomach?  Is it only your head or what is it?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, it's like a cold.   
 Q.  How are you going to treat yourself before the next match?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Now I'm leaving and going to the hotel.  I think I will take some other drugs and I will try to just rest, have a good dinner, and try to sleep during the night.  I will try to sleep a lot of hours and just try to recover.   
When you have a cold you just want to be calm and relaxed in bed.  Let's see if tomorrow I wake up a little bit better.   
 Q.  This morning when you woke up did you think about withdrawing?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: No, no.  Here in Madrid I didn't think about it.  But it's true that perhaps if I had been in another tournament I would've quit.  I would've thought about it.  Of course we are in a mandatory tournament, a very important tournament here at home.  I would've thought about it for sure.  At least say, Hey -- ask me team, I don't feel very well.  What do you think, guys?   
Being here in Madrid I have never thought about that.  It hasn't come in my mind.   
 Q.  You are the only Spanish player playing right now.  How do you see the level of the other Spanish players, or do you think the foreigners are superior?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I think the draw has been very positive.  I think Lourdes lost against Pliskova and Lara against Safarova.  Sara, with whom did she play?  With Safarova or Stosur.   
In the end they lost against players which are in the top 10, top 20.  These things happen.  I think that the girls came here with a lot of happiness.  I've been talking with them, and they were very happy about being able to play here in Madrid.   
At the end of the day, it's the only tournament we have at home.  You always want to do good.  Of course it's a pity, the draw they had, but with the kind of people that we have playing here, these things can happen.   
Garbine, yesterday I saw the third set because the first two I couldn't watch because I was having dinner.  I have said it several times:  Nowadays the circuit is very even.  It's very difficult to stay up there.  It's very difficult to have positive results every week.   
It's a pity, because I think Garbine had a lot of opportunities to do well here in Madrid.  The important thing is to recover, to come back, and to be 100% for Rome.   
 Q.  Now your next opponent comes straight in.  Is it more difficult to play Stosur or Safarova?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Look, I didn't know that Safarova had left the draw.  Well, it's true that Safarova and Stosur have completely different styles, but, well, I've played Stosur many times here in Madrid, and I also played against her in other tournaments.   
She is a very dangerous player because she serves well and good forehands and experience in the tour.  She knows what it is to compete at the maximum level and how to compete here in Madrid.  She knows me, so I think that it's going to be a match where I have to give my 100%.   
I will have to rest good.  Let's see if I can recover and feel better.  Let's see if I'm prepared to play tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT