QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 22, 2016
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Carla Suarez Navarro, please.   
 Q.  You had a disappointing result last week.  How important to have a good week this week?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, I Lost in the first round last week.  Every week here is a tough week.  The best players of the world are here.   
For this week, try to play my game, you know, try to improve, try to be better in bad moments or difficult situations.   
Obviously my first round.  I feel good here.  I was practicing a few days and I feel good.  I'll hope to do better than Dubai.  You never know what going to be happen in your first match, but I feel good.   
 Q.  Do you feel these tournaments are difficult because earlier rounds, you get very good opponents?  Not like a Grand Slam, if you're seeded, you maybe get one or two easier rounds.  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, it's difficult, you know.  The draw here is smaller than a Grand Slam, and you know the top players are here.  And also players who pass the qually, they play good.  They know the level that we are playing.  You know the level that they can play.   
So you have to be focused all the time.  You have to be ready for all the players and all the games.   
 Q.  Nothing to do with this tournament or this year, if you had the chance to go back and play one match again, which match would it be?  I wonder if it might be the French Open quarterfinals against Bouchard?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, maybe.   
 Q.  Or another match?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, this match would be good match to play again, you know, to play more aggressive in the final set.  Yeah, this match was tough for me losing at the end.   
 Q.  Was that the problem?  Were you tired at the end of the match?  It was a long match, wasn't it?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, it was a long match, but that wasn't the reason.  The reason was that I was like so nervous, you know.  I don't know how to say.  I'm like I'm afraid to win.   
You have to lift that moment.  You have to take the experience for that match.  This match helped me a lot yet.   
 Q.  And Bouchard was not afraid to win.  
CARA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, no, no.  She was for the match and she won final.   
 Q.  Welcome to Doha.  Your next opponent with Donna Vekic.  Have you played her before?  How do you see this match?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I don't think I play before against her.  I saw her a little bit yesterday, you know.  She was playing good.  I know that she's young player with good potential, good tennis good mentally.   
I know her for a long time, but we never play before, so it will be interesting match.  Tough match for me.  She was playing here a few matches before, you know, and sometimes that help for the court, for the balls.   
I said before, I feel good and I think I'm ready for tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT