QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 12, 2019
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Is there any specific diet to be recommended for the players in order to be fit like you?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I think the most important is just to enjoy everything that you do on court, off court, but try to enjoy and try to be happy also with your friends.  But try to enjoy.   
Every day you want to go to play tennis, if you go is because you want, no?  But try to enjoy and try to be happy with your tennis or the things that you do.   
 Q.  How old were you when you started playing tennis?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I'm 30 years old now, and I start to play tennis when I was 10 years old.   
 Q.  When you were young player, did you have a dream to become a champion one day?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, of course.  Every time that I play tennis or I finish the day and I go to the bed, I was thinking that I want to be a professional tennis player.  I want to be in a Grand Slam and try to be No. 1.   
But, you know, is difficult, no?  But you have to have that dream on your mind if you want to be a tennis player.   
 Q.  In case your kids are talented in tennis, are you going to lead them to professional tennis?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, that's a good question.  Well, maybe yes, but also, I want for them make other sports like swimming or football or basketball.   
But, yeah, also tennis.  If they like it and they want, they can do it, yeah.   
 Q.  Do you think you will win this tournament again?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I hope (smiling).  I mean, I like this tournament too much, but every single match that I play is really tough and so difficult.  I won today, but tomorrow I have another tough one.  I try to win tomorrow and try to win the tournament.   
 Q.  Do you have any happy dance when you win?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: No, no, no, no, no.  I like to dance but not on court (smiling).   
 Q.  What was the best match you played in your career?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I remember one in 2009 I played against Venus Williams in Australian Open second round.  I beat her, and I save one match point.   
 Q.  When you were young, did you have a pet?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: If I have a pet?  Yeah.  When I was young, no, but when I was 22 years old and I moved to Barcelona to live, I take one dog, one French bulldog, and the name is Congo.  He's still alive.   
 Q.  How do you spend your time outside the court?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I like to be on the beach.  Also spend time with family and my friends.   
I also like to read.  I also like to go to the cinema.  But go to the beach is one of my favorites.   
 Q.  How many hours do you spend practicing your tennis skills?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: How many hours?  Well, when I start to play when I was 10 years old, I practiced two days during the week, but then I was getting older and I practice five days every week.   
But when I was young maybe two hours, more or less.  And now depends of the part of the season.  A little bit more, sometimes less, but around two hours.   
 Q.  Who was your idol or role model growing up?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Good question.  In the male circuit, Lleyton Hewitt.  In the female circuit, Justine Henin.   
 Q.  What is your favorite foods?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: My favorite food is the Spanish food and Japanese food.   
 Q.  What is the best advice that you can give for the youngest tennis players?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I talked to her before, but I think the most important is just try to enjoy everything you do, try to enjoy every moment you are on court, and try to be happy also with your friends and the rest of the players you are playing with or practicing.  But try to enjoy, enjoy the moment.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT