AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2016
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/D. Gavrilova   
0-6, 6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you feel after the first set and what did you do to change it around?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I start obviously not really good.  I think I start too much relaxed.  Was tough.  Even she was playing good, the first set, no mistake.   
But, you know, you have to believe.  I try.  I fight.  I was there.  You have to be there for a comeback like this.  That's it.   
I just try.  I just believe that I can do it.  Until the last point, I fight.   
 Q.  Did you sense that Daria was starting to get a bit tight and anxious, and did that give you hope?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, she was playing not like in the first set, for sure.  I don't know.  Maybe because I call to the physio, maybe because I go to the toilet.  You know, these things, you never know.  But, yeah, the end of the match, I think I was more focused than her.  She mistakes a lot in one or two balls.   
But this is tennis.  Just try to be there, try to believe, try to fight.  And I was there.   
 Q.  You said you came out maybe a little bit too relaxed.  That's not a common statement.  Why were you relaxed?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: You know, it's difficult go there on Rod Laver when you not used to go there.  With the crowd, with the local player, at 7:00, a lot of things.  I was waiting all day for this match.  I start one hour later.   
Yeah, you know, the thing was that I want to play more relax I was saying all this week.  But today maybe was too much, yeah.   
But, you know, I think I can change my game.  I can change my mind.  I'm happy because was tough for me.   
 Q.  Did that give you a lot of confidence?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, yeah, was a really interesting match.  I really enjoy, you know, the crowd here is pushing a lot, Daria.  She was playing good.  But when I won the second set, the match was there 50/50.  Well, the crowd here is amazing.  The atmosphere out there is really good.  I really enjoy.   
But only can won the match one player.  Was me today.   
 Q.  Seven years since you made a quarterfinal here.  Hopeful of going further?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I play now Aga Radwanska.  I know her really good.  We have really tough matches in the past.  She won the last tournament of the last year, the Masters.  She started the season really good.  She won the tournament.   
I know will be tough for me.  I know that because her style, you have to run a lot, you have to think every point what to do.   
But I think I'm ready.  I'm really enjoy playing here in Melbourne.  I'm really happy to be in the next round.  I want more.  I want more.   
 Q.  What were your thoughts on Daria's game?  She has been one of the players coming up in the rankings.  What do you think are her prospects, things like that?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: She play really good.  Sometimes she can play fast.  She can change the game and play a little bit slower.  You know, for the players, is not easy playing against Daria because of that.   
You know, she's improving every day, every week.  Here in Melbourne, she's so motivated, you know.  She fight a lot.  She know how to play with the crowd.   
I think Daria, she will go up in the ranking for sure, because she has the game to be there.   
 Q.  What's the issue with your leg?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I feel a little bit pain in the first set.   
 Q.  In the knee?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, in my knee.  But, you know, you have to play with this pain.  You have to accept that.  I just call the physio to make a little tape just to help a little bit.  It help.   
But, you know, when I run, I feel pain.  But I have tomorrow and tonight for have a look and rest a little bit, then I think I will be ready for the next match.   
 Q.  You're from the Canary Islands.  What is the character of someone from the Canary Islands?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, normally in Spain they say that we are so relax (smiling), more than the other people from Spain.  But I think we are also happy.  We have good weather.   
I don't know.  Have to be there, have to go.   
 Q.  Is 7:30 around siesta time in the Canary Islands?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: They have now midday.  So, yeah, maybe when I start, I was on Sunday morning, you know (laughter).   
 Q.  Do you think you have all of those characteristics?  Do you consider yourself a relaxed person?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, yeah, yeah.  I think so, yeah.  They can talk, they know me (pointing to the Spanish journalists).   
 Q.  Talk about when you won the match, you looked to your team.  What was going through your mind?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I feel happy because of them because they are there.  They cannot talk too much.  They don't know what happened in my knee, all these things.  We are together in this tournament.  The victory is not only for me, it's just for all the team.  I make that.   
I don't know why, sometimes I did because I fight.  But I feel really happy for them also.   
 Q.  You said you were working a lot on your mental game.  Is tonight a situation where all of that work paid off?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, yeah, yeah.  Tonight is a really good match to put all these things that I want to make in order.  And, yeah, I think this match will help really a lot to me because the first set, because of the second set, and because of the end of the match.  We have three different situations.  I think is a good match to watch again, to watch together with my team, and try to have solutions - I don't know how to say - important things, you know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT