HUAJIN SECURITIES WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 4, 2015
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/A. Petkovic
  6‑0, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
   
 Q. That can be a kind of awkward situation sometimes to put that win together. I know that you're both quite good friends. What was it like out on court, and how happy were you with how you played?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, you know, it's difficult situation because I really know Andrea you for long time. She's really good professional. Yeah, she was a little bit injury in her knee, I think. I really appreciate the fought because she was on court all the time. She didn't retire. She play not only for her; she play also for the fans, for me.   
You know, not a lot of players in the circuit they will stay on court with the situation that Andrea was living today.   
But, well, I just try to be focus, you know, and try to play my game, try to play a good tennis. And, well, was maybe a sad win for me.   
   
 Q. You obviously spent last week in Singapore. You were practicing and also playing the doubles and prepared as an alternate. How much of that preparation was tiring for you? Do you arrive here somewhat exhausted or in good spirits with the doubles and all this sort of stuff?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, you know, all mix. I was one week there all day in the club because I was two alternate. I have to wait in the club for all the match to be on court.  
But, you know, I have really good matches there. I really enjoy the tournament. Singapore is a special tournament. I really enjoy when I play with Garbine. Was a new experience for me playing the Final.  
Yeah, I arrive here two, three days ago, but I can practice yesterday. Today I warmup. I feel good. I don't feel tired at all. It's my last tournament of the year. I'm really motivated about this tournament. I have a good chance, but I know will be tough, no, because all the players here are into the top 20. All the players wants the same goal as me.   
But the most important for me is just enjoy the tournament and finish the year with a good feeling.   
   
 Q. Because you had such a consistent first six months of the year and then maybe a little bit up and down afterwards, how important is it for you to try and finish positively?   
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, really important. You know, I have really good start of the season. I work really hard in the off‑season. The results come really fast, you know.  
I try to be more regular every year, and this year, the start of the season I have the regular that I want. But now after Wimbledon I feel a little bit tired mentally. I have been playing a lot of matches at the beginning.  
Then I go to the USA and I have really bad matches. Mentally I didn't work good. Then I have also good chances to change situation, and I play good matches on Asia, and now I feel much better.   
But, you know, you have the reason. I want to finish the year with good feelings, because, you know, like I was so close to playing in Singapore but then I was out.  
Yeah, the season was really long for me, and finish with the same feeling that I start the feeling will be good for me.   
   
 Q. Do you think that the doubles at all and the result last week, playing good matches, having fun with Garbine, making the final, that that sort of confidence can carry into your singles year?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, really. I feel really good now. I feel with more confidence. I think I need matches like that I play in Singapore.  
Also Garbine was playing really good. We talk about how we can play. Yeah, you know, the season was too long for both. With singles and doubles it's tough. Yeah, the doubles help in these things. I have more confidence right now after the Singapore tournament.   
   
 Q. (Through translation.) Today with the two double bagels of the match, what happened is after Singapore week can see you're quite tired. With the overall energy, how can you reboot yourself and what are your opinions of tomorrow's match?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, yeah, I play in Singapore really good matches. Was a really long week, but I arrive here with a lot of confidence. Today I know that Andrea wasn't good. She was a little bit injury. Was not easy, no?   
But I try to sleep well in these two days, try to recover, try to practice on center court, try to feel the surface. I really like because it's not too fast, not too slow. I can play good here.   
But, well, I know that the match that I play after tomorrow will be tough with Svitolina, I think. I never play her recently. Both of us want to be in the semifinal, so will be a really tough and fight match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT