DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 28, 2015
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. Can you share with us something about your practice after the US Open.   
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I was in Tokyo, in Japan. I go straight there.   
Well, I was practicing every day. You know, I have two tournaments after the US Open and before here. Well, I feel good. I arrive yesterday here. I play my first match here in doubles. I feel good.   
I was practicing good.   
   
 Q. Actually, as we know, you played not very well in the recent tournaments. The Wuhan Open and Beijing is very important for everyone who wants to go to Singapore. I think you also have to be qualified in Singapore. What's your expectations for Wuhan and Beijing?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I have to play match by match. My first match is tomorrow. I know that I have two months not really good. But now we have two big tournaments. We are a lot of players who have the chance to qualify to Singapore.   
I think the most important now is the match that I have tomorrow. I play against Niculescu. I play against her two times this year, but always tough.   
So I expect nothing special, just play match by match. I think is the most important thing right now. After these two tournaments, we'll see what happen with the players who are now in 9, 10, 8, 11.   
   
 Q. Can you share with us some memories about Beijing and China.   
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, it's a really interesting city. You can go around the city and be see a lot of things.   
The tennis center, it's big. They have a really good stadium, a big stadium. It's a good tournament. Good to be there.   
Well, every time I go to China, I try to enjoy. And here also in Wuhan, it's my second time here. We don't have too much time to make different things, but this tennis center is really, really good.   
I like the tournaments here in China.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT