ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2015
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/V. Razzano6-3, 1-0 (Ret.)THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.Q. What do you think about your next match against Flavia?CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, for sure will be tough.  Because I know her really good.  She know me.  We play a lot of times.  We practice a lot of times. Flavia likes also play on clay.  She has good results here in Roland Garros, so for sure will be tough.THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.Q. You played just one set, so how do you feel?  You're back on the central court.  Maybe you're a bit more nervous playing on the center court because you had to face a French opponent.CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, you know, it's never easy playing a Grand Slam to come as the fourth match, so you have to wait, wait.  You don't know at what time the other matches are going to finish. So these are small details that usually make me a bit nervous.  So I didn't have very good feelings as I had before in the past or during my last matches, but I had to adapt whatever the conditions, and this is what I tried to do. I think I managed to do that.  I didn't play long, 45 minutes only.  But I enjoyed that because I was in a genuine competition situation.  It was difficult.  I had to play my game, and I'm sorry my opponent had to retire, but at the end of the day I won the match and that's good news.Q. Do you know why she had to retire?CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: She has some kind of an abdominal tear, but I did not understand everything.  You have to ask her the question.  But I could tell when she was serving.Q. And playing 45 minutes only today, is it good for you or not?  Did you want to play a bit longer to get a feeling of your game level?CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, good feelings, bad feelings, you have to do with that.  45 minutes is quite positive, because I'm less tired.  I'm more fresh for my next round, so I'm quite happy with that.  It's good for me. Quite clearly would have liked to play a bit longer in order to get my good feeling back, but never mind.  That's the situation, and at the end of the day it's pretty good for me.Q. (Off microphone.)CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: We know each other very well.  She knows me.  I know her.  We have played together or one another many times last year.  Flavia is a player who loves clay.  She has winning shots.  She is a fighter.  She can play long matches.  She is a very good player, and for both of us, it's going to be a very interesting match.  Very beautiful, because we like each other very much. I appreciate her, and I think at mental level, it's going to be difficult, because we are good friends.Q. Let's talk about something else.  Have you ever made a complaint against an umpire?CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: No.Q. Do you know you're allowed to do that?CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yes.Q. (Off microphone. )CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: If you're asking me if I'm the favorite for my next match, I'd say it's 50/50. Okay, these were short and easy questions.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT