ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2015
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  C. NAVARRO/M. Niculescu  6-2, 6-2    THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish.   Q.  We say that the first rounds are very difficult, especially in Grand Slam.  Are you happy?  CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yes, I took this match very seriously.  And it is true, first rounds are difficult.  They are complicated.  It's true, simply because the games are difficult.  Sometimes it takes a little bit of time also to get into the tournament and I think there might be also a little bit more pressure.  I think it was a very challenging match from the beginning to the end.   Q.  Yesterday we heard that some players put themselves in an automatic pilot mode where you don't really think.  Is that true?  CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, it's not like you play without thinking at all.  But I think that we have automatic reactions that are predefined.  So, yes, there is that autopilot mode, but not all the time.  Not all the time. I did some serious thinking.  As I was playing, I knew where I was going to place the ball, if I was going to put some spin on the ball, if I was going to shoot straight. My opponent has a lot of variables.  She slices very well.  She could spin, she plays up, she plays down.  You have to be very careful and always place the balls very accurately.   Q.  Last year you made it to the quarterfinals.  This year you may be a bit more self-confident.  How has your game changed this year versus last year?  CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I think I'm much more confident indeed compared to last year.  This being said, as I was playing -- when I play, I try to be more aggressive.  I think I have improved my serve.  I'm really trying to dominate my opponent with my serve from the very beginning. As I said, for the rest of my game, I think I know what I'm doing.  I'm trying to put some variation in my game. But again, one of the big differences between this year versus last year is mentally.  I think I'm quite self-confident, and I know what I'm doing.   Q.  So you just talked about you were feeling more confident mentally.  How about physically?  Conchita said that physically said you were also very are strong and that you're very quick.  CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yes, I think that physically when you reach a certain point and you have to hit that ball, if you're a little behind on the ball, you're not as quick.  You're not as strong as you could or you should be.  I have changed my physical coach.  I think the methodology is still pretty much the same, but we get along very well.  I think we understand each other. I think he understands that as a player, you go through different phases, and I think he was able to adjust to me as a player.  I think together we're pretty good at preparing for the different tournaments, so I have come here.  Prepared very well.  I have no physical problems.   Q.  This year, do you think there is a bit more pressure on you?  If yes, how do you manage that?  CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, that may be the case.  But I don't feel under pressure.  I don't feel that way.  I don't feel I have to, you know, come up with good results.  I'm just going to take it match by match.  I just get out of a tournament where I lost in the first round, and this is forcing me to pay greater attention. You know, when you start a new tournament, especially a big one, you have to get it right.  You have to be good, feel good both physically and mentally.  And that's the case today.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT