U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2018
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KEYS/C. SUAREZ NAVARRO
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Both sets were really close.  What do you think made the difference tonight?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I think the serve and the returns.  I mean, I don't really serve good tonight, and she was returning in pressure situation every time because I don't have a big first service.
So, well, I think this was really important part of the game.  And also, she was really good with her serve.  I mean, I cannot return like I used to, and, well, during the match or during the points, I think we have good rallies, but she was better today.  She was more fresh than me.  Faster, you know.  That's it.
Q. You have had some big success against big hitters.  You just beat Maria.  When the serve isn't working, what are you doing on the court to try to unsettle players?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, try to put the serve in, maybe serving second service.
But tonight it didn't work.  I mean, she was playing good.  Well, at least was only one break in each set, I mean, but you have to be solid, try to be solid when you play against players that play really aggressive.  But, well, sometimes you cannot, and they make easy winners.
Q. Another Grand Slam quarterfinal for you, though.  What positives do you take away from these two weeks?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I have good matches.  I mean, I think I have really good tournaments this summer, starting in Montreal.  Then I play a really good match against Azarenka in Cincinnati.  And then New Haven and here.
I go home with a lot of matches, good matches, and I think this is the way I have to play in Asia.  I have three, four, five tournaments left, and try to play like here.  I have good matches.  I know I can play good tennis.  I feel good.  So try to finish the year playing like this.
Q. Schiavone retired today and she brought up your one-handed backhands.  How much will you miss her on the tour?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, I didn't know she's coming here to retire.  I didn't see her.  But, I mean, for me was a really good player.  I have good relation.
She's so funny, you know.  Well, I have more or less the same style than her.  I mean, she has a lot of successes.  Grand Slam winner, final or semifinal, I don't know, a lot of years top 10.
So I gonna miss her.  I mean, my master.  Yeah.
Q. She made a lot of Grand Slam quarterfinals before she broke through.  Does her career breakthrough give you hope for future in major tournaments?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, you know, you just have to win.  You just have to win.  I mean, I have lost all my quarterfinals, but, well, you have to be there.  Sometimes I lost before and it's worse than quarterfinals.
So every time I go on court, I try to win.  Every time I play quarterfinal, I try to focus on my game, not in the round.
But, well, it's not possible.  One more year, one more Grand Slam.  But I will fight and I will come back and I try again every time I on court.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT