MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 7, 2015
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/C. Suarez Navarro
  6‑1, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish, please. 

Q.   You don't find the way to beat Serena, right? 
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   It's complicated.   It's complicated.   Serena, she puts it really hard on her first shots and it's just hard.   It's tough. 

Q.   Do you think it's a mental matter because you remember all the previous times you played against her?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   No, it's not that.   Every time I go out on the court with Serena I try to forget everything that we have had previously.
Because at the end, every single match is different.   It's true that Serena makes a big difference with her first shots, and I think that this time playing from the back the difference has not been so big.   I think it's one of the times that I have been playing better against her. 
But it's true that with her serve or when she plays back, it makes a big difference. 

Q.   Have you thought about what you could do differently in order to change things? 
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, yeah, it's clear that in the first set I had very few first serves.   I tried to change that in the second set.   I tried at least that she couldn't return my second serve. 
I tried to play from the baseline, be more aggressive, and I think that compared to other matches I managed to do that. 
Well, nothing more really.   I think that in every single moment I tried to fight until the end.   I tried to win as many points as possible. 
Well, Serena also demonstrates that she's playing at really high level.   She wants to play her game, dominate, and she has really good winners.   Winners just come out when she plays.   Everything works out for her.

Q.   You've been stepping up step by step.   Yesterday Ivanovic, Radwanska.   You have beaten most of the players from top 10.   What extra step do you need to beat Serena? 
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   I think that the first short shot are the most important things.   Not to have her so inside the court.   I feel that she plays very comfortable and close to the line.   Whenever I come from one side to the other I see that's she's playing close to the line and moving very well.
I see that what I'm missing with her is that I have to serve a little bit better.   I think that the main difference when we're playing behind the baseline is not so big.
If I had to say something, I think that it's just the first few shots that I have to try to make her not feel so comfortable on, try to dominate a little bit more. 

Q.   You say that you can do better on your serve.   You think your serve can be better even with the altitude problem here?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Yeah, I think I've been doing better.   The racquet has helped me quite a lot to be better with my serve, but I think that even still I can do better.   I think I can have a better percentage of the first serves. 
And also with where I place the ball and the force.   I think I have the a little bit of margin with my serve.   I can do better. 

Q.   What's your feeling after this match, after this tournament?   Can you tell us? 
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I have good feelings, good vibes.   Of course losing here against Serena Williams are things that just can happen.   It's the second year in a row that I lose against Serena. 
But I'm happy because of the previous tournaments.   This is the second tournament I play on clay, and little by little I'm playing better and better and I'm adapting to playing on clay court.   It's never easy.   When you come to play on clay it's quite tough.
I'm still playing in doubles, so that is positive for me.   Let's see what happens this week.   Still a long way to go. 

Q.   You still have to play Rome and doubles here.   Last year when you were in Roland Garros you remember the pressure that you had?   How have you worked that? 
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Yeah, well, from the first moment I tried not to have so much pressure; I tried to change something.   Also in Indian Wells I did that, and in Miami. 
At the end of the day, they're really important tournaments for us.   Have to do good in those tournaments.   They're a lot of points and they're quite important.
Talking about Roland Garros, I think I learned my lesson.   Playing here at home, whether you like it or not, it's never easy.   You are always a little bit nervous.
I think the first step to do better has happened last year in Roland Garros.   I have to do it better here, here at home.   That is what I have to do first:   do good at home. 

Q.   Two years ago you said that your next goal was to be top 10.   It was pretty complicated.   Now you're top 10.   I want to ask you now what is your next goal? 
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I think that if I have to say something right now, I would say that I would like to finish the year in the top 10, which is not the same to be in the top 10 during the year than to finish the year in top 10.
So that's what I would say.   And I would say in the short‑term. 
In the long‑term, well, in the long‑term the closer to the first, the better.   I'm not going to lie.   I would like to be No. 1. 

Q.   When you play against Serena, do you think you have less possibilities than when you face another player?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   No, no, not really.   When I play against Serena I have to play my game the same as I do with any other player.   The difference is that Serena does it really well. 
But I don't have less confidence.   If I had less confidence, perhaps I wouldn't win the points that I win against her.   It's true that when I play with Serena I have to get mentally ready, especially with my serve and on the return.
That's all I have to do:   I have to be mentally ready. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT