MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2015
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/A. Ivanovic
  7‑5, 1‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish, please.   
   
 Q.   What happened in the second set?   Can you tell us?   
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   What a good question.   Well, I think that in the first set the rhythm was really high, and then I was a little bit down for ten or fifteen minutes.   She took advantage of that.   
In the end, Ana is a very aggressive player.   The points were really short.   It was that lack of intensity.   
   
 Q.   In the draw you're playing against a really good player, but your tennis is there.   How do you see the next match.   
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, it's hard, right?   Isn't it?   You all now how I face Serena.   
I think that I have to do something different either today or preparation‑wise.   I have to prepare myself.  
I think that the way I prepared for previous matches against Serena, it's clear that it didn't work out.   My intention to change it, change those results.  
I'm going to do everything that I can do to beat Serena and win tomorrow's match, knowing that it's very difficult.   
   
 Q.   Have you seen Serena's match against Azarenka?   Probably she's not in her best shape because she nearly lost.   
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   I think you can never say that with Serena.   Serena is a player that knows how to get over those kind of situations.   Today she was able to turn the match around.  
Normally players have one bad match or two bad matches, and even that way they still can win tournaments.   Serena is one of those players.   She can have a bad match one day and next day play her best tennis.   We all know that.   We all know the potential she has, how she plays.   
Well, it's clear that Azarenka today faced her very well.   I'll try to do the same tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   We still remember Anabel Medina Garrigues back in her day, that she nearly beat Serena at 6‑0.   How are you going to attack Serena?   Garbine tried to do it.   Did you speak to her?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   It's clear.   I remember that match of Anabel.   I think I saw it.   I know that Garbine has beat her.   I know that Azarenka has beat her too.   I know that Serena is not unbeatable.   
But of course, what can I say?   Whenever I play against Serena it's very tough for me.   I'm saying it again.   I think that the important thing is try to change the dynamic; do something different.   
   
 Q.   We were asking Serena at the beginning of the tournament which rivals did she think were the most complicated in clay court.   She said two:   Simona Halep and Carl Suarez Navarro.   Apart from your smile, what can you say about that?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I guess she said that because of my style in clay court.   She knows that I like to play on clay, and that probably my style suits more the clay court than the fast courts.   Even though I adapt well to both surfaces.   
Of course she cannot say that she's the favorite.   She cannot say that.   It's normal that she says other names.   I think we all think in tomorrow's match Serena is the favorite.   
   
 Q.   Do you think that the match against Serena has something more to do with your mental state rather than your game?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Probably, yes.   It's very tough.   You know, the level I was playing on the Miami is very different than the level that I have today.   
So I think that it has to do with the mentality.   Not only with Serena.   Also with other players.   Also with Ivanovic today.   Not talking about my tennis, it's a mental matter.  
And tomorrow it will be.   
   
 Q.   Last night you were talking about the not proper behavior of the tournament because they were showing the match on the main screens.   The tournament also said the reasons.   Can you speak about that?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   No, no, I don't think we need to talk about that.   That happened yesterday and I don't have any problem with that.   That's all.   We don't need to talk about that.   
   
 Q.   I wanted to ask you if you think that the people tomorrow in the central court are going to be an important factor?   You had never beaten Ivanovic before today.   Court No. 3 was on your side.   Do you think that that's going to be a determining factor?   
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I said yesterday that I wanted the people to be on top of me all the time.   I have to say thank you, because I think that the people have been a really important factor.   They have cheered me on from the first moment until the end.   I think it's been just sublime.  
I hope that tomorrow the central court is full.   I know it's difficult because the court is bigger, but it's true that whenever we play home, especially the Spanish players, that we only have a week per year to be able to play in Spain.  
What we want is to have the court full.   We want the people there and to be part of the game.   We want them to have fun, the same as we do.   And also cheering us on.   It's very good for us, and I just want to say thank you.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your regularity during the whole year.   You made it to ten finals.   Talk about that.   
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, it's something that we have been working on a lot during this time.   Last year, the year before, too, I was saying that one of the subjects that I have to work on was the consistency to get back my rhythm.  
At the end, when you play against the top players, that's where you see it.   Maybe you need to be in that winning stretch.   That helps you win matches.  
But I think that with regularity that I have, the consistency, it's very important for me.   It's something that we've been building on and training on.   
   
 Q.   Talking about your game, of course the altitude in Madrid, it's something different here.   Is it beneficial for you or not?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, you have to know how to adapt yourself.   Playing in Madrid is not easy.   It's true this year I came a few days before.   Previous years I wasn't able to do that.  
I think it's something that benefits me, especially if you adapt properly.   It's true that there will be some nervous points where you cannot control the ball easily because it flies a little bit faster than normal, but I think that's something that is beneficial for me.   It has been beneficial for me during the last three matches.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT