MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 3, 2015
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/Z. Diyas
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Tell us a little bit how you felt out there in the first match.   And what about the wrist?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I felt well.   It's too bad, because Ziyas is a really good player.   Complicated.   She plays very straight and fast.   You don't have time to prepare yourself.  
But I think that I've been working very well this year, and I think that I've done pretty well in the competition today.   I played as I've been training.   It's true that there are a couple things that I would like to do better for the next match, but I think I've done quite well in general.  
And the wrist, it's a slow process.   It's getting better little by little.   It allows me to play.   I'm not limited.   So hopefully day after day it will get better and better.   
Let's see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us the difference between the Carla of last year and the Carla of this year?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I think that I am conscious.   I'm working day after day and I have more maturity and experience.   That makes everything better.   Day after day it's very important to play.   
I think that the way I'm training and the way I live, that's what we are going to see afterwards out there on the court.   It's true that mentally we have worked a lot.   I'm better than last year.  
I think that Xabi's ideas have made a lot of improvements, and there has been a change, especially a mental change.   
   
 Q.   You're right now in Madrid in the best position in the ranking, and seems you're not lucky in the draw.   Seems that you're on the harder side.   There is Ivanovic, Serena.   How did you face them?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   It's normal to have a tough draw, because when you come to a tournament like this when you have all the top players, it's very difficult to have an easy draw.   
At the end, you to go match after match.   It's clear that Serena is there.   I wish I could play against her.   That means I won a lot of matches.   
I think that the most important thing is to think about the next match, the one I have to face next.   I might have two possible players coming from qualifying.   They have already played some matches, and here in Madrid that makes a difference.   
Let's see for the next match how I am, how I feel.   
   
 Q.   You were 4‑3 Love‑40, three breakpoints to close.   What were you thinking that moment?   In the moment what did you think?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I wasn't thinking anything different or special.   Just thought that I had to go point after point and keep on working.   Just play as I think I have to play on clay court.   That's what I have to do.   
You don't want to give points away.   You try to play the points as hard as possible.   There are some times that you cannot close the matches the first or second time.   You just don't have to think anything differently.   Just keep going and keep playing point after point.   That's all.   
   
 Q.   Madrid, the only WTA tournament in Spain the whole year.   Do you think the girls deserve to have more tournaments in Spain?   What do you think about the tournament that we're going to play next year on grass in Mallorca?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   I think for us having such an important tournament here in Madrid, it's very nice, because, you know, it's very important in our calendar.   A lot of points are given.   It's the only opportunity that we have to play in in front of our people, our family, our closest friends, and of course to play in front of our Spanish followers.   
It's true that we would like to have more tournaments, but we know that at the end of the day it's not easy.   It's an economic issue, too.   To organize a tournament you need a lot of money.   It's not easy.   It is a lot of work.  
You know, next year there is going to be a tournament in grass.   It's a little bit strange, because I think that all of us, the majority, we are players that play very well on clay.   
But well, it's always nice to have a tournament in Spain and being able to go there and play.   I think that if it's in grass before Wimbledon, I think that's great.   
Being able to prepare before Wimbledon is a very good thing.   We just need to play matches before.   It'll be very helpful.  
   
 Q.   Now you're top 10 and playing a tournament here in Spain, the only one for the WTA.   Do you think you'll have more pressure?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   No, no, not at all.   I think that the time where I had to suffer a lot of pressure in these kind of tournaments, I already left it behind.   I had that other years and I learned from that experience.  
I think that I don't have to demonstrate my rhythm that I have in my game.   I just to have play.   I just come to this tournament with a lot of joy because it's here in Spain, of course.   
But everything related to the tournaments, to the training, I just focus everything as I've done these last years.   Nothing different here.   I focus as I focus all the other tournaments.   
   
 Q.   Do you see a lot of differences as far as media from other years to this year?   I mean, right now you're the image of the tournament.   Couple years ago it was impossible.   
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Yeah, well, I think it's positive, especially because of what you guys said.   It's not only positive for me.   I think it's also positive for all the girls that are playing here, for all the Spanish women players.   
In the end, it helps a lot to have this kind of tournament.   They have seen me on the TV, and I think that helps also for all the supporters.   It's the only way they can follow tennis, to watch us on TV.   If we're up on TV, it's a nice thing.  
The newspapers are also doing a great job, and I just want to say thank you.   It's the way that we can get close to the fans.   I think it's very positive.  
You have to know how to handle it.   I think it's a good sign.   It means I'm doing well.   
   
 Q.   You might face Serena in the next days.   You played against her before and you didn't do very well.   Do you think that the fact that you're playing against her on clay in Madrid gives you more chances?   What do you think about that possible matchup?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, if I tell you the truth, I play her last year here.   From last year to this year a lot of things have changed.   At the end, Serena is always the favorite.   Serena is the real No. 1.   
Whenever you play against her, you know that it's going to be a very close and tough match.   As I said before, I want to face that match, because that will mean that I have been able to win a lot of matches here.   It's not easy at all.   
If I have to face that match, I'll try to do it differently to what I've done previously when I played her.   
   
 Q.   I would like to know, you've been on the courts here in Madrid.   How is the clay?   Do you like it more than other tournaments?   
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, it's true that the clay is really well this year.   The ball bounces really nicely.   You cannot say anything bad about the court this year.  
I think this it is one of the best tournaments on clay that I have played.   The clay is laid down very well.   Seems like a mat.   I tried to play on several courts, which is very important too.   Sometimes some are better than others.   
This year all the courts are similar, all the same, and I think it's very well laid, yes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT