ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 8, 2014
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 V. WILLIAMS/C. Suarez Navarro
  4‑6, 6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   You were in total control of the match in the first set and beginning of the second set.   How would you rate your performance overall?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Yeah, I was there.   I start really good.   A little bit tired from yesterday.   
But, well, the most important today is winning the last point.   I cannot do that.   
Venus was really, really good for me.   Well, I'm happy with the week.   I play a really good tennis.   
   
 Q.   After you played Eugenie Bouchard at the French Open, you said something about not quite having the belief once you were ahead to finish the match off.   Was there a little bit of that today?   If so, what is the solution for that?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Yeah, this is the really thing I need to be better to go up in the ranking.   
Well, in this case I was really nervous.   I was looking for Genie.   She was playing really good.   I was really close, but I didn't finish.   
Is only mentally.   I need more matches like this.   But I have the experience to finish these types of match.   The thing is in my mind.   I mean, yeah, is so close.   I have the tennis.   I have the level.   Only is mentally.   
   
 Q.   What happened with your serve in the second set?   In the second and third set you lost six out of seven.   Did you feel completely lost serving at some point?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Yeah, normally when I'm tired, my serve is really bad.   I'm not really tall.   I need to be up all the time.   The ball need to go up into the net.   
For me is not easy when I'm normal.   When I'm tired, is worse.   
Yeah, the difference today, yesterday I serve really good, I won a lot of points with my serve, but today not.   Was difficult for me today serving.   
Venus also was hitting the ball really fast.   Was not easy for me.   
   
 Q.   Were you surprised at how tough Venus was today, especially after having a slow start?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   I saw yesterday the final set.   Venus was amazing.   I'm glad to see Venus back again.   She's a really good player.   
She was tired also, like me.   But she was stronger today.   She was hitting really, really good.   For me was a really, really good match of Venus.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT