U.S. OPEN
September 3, 2018
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/M. Sharapova   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Did you have other birthday plans for tonight?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: No (smiling).  I mean, well, when I wake up, I just was thinking on that match.  I just want to win.  I mean, was a really good present for me.  I was playing also last year same day against Venus Williams, and I lost.  This time I don't want to feel like last year.  I want to have a happy birthday, and I have it (smiling).   
 Q.  How many birthdays have you spent playing at matches?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, a lot.  I play like one against Silvia Soler, one against Elena Vesnina, one against Serena Williams, and one against Venus Williams, and today, so five.   
 Q.  How many you win?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I win Silvia, Vesnina and today.  I lost against Williams.   
 Q.  You've been to five quarterfinals already in five slams.  How are you physically and mentally for the next round?  How do you feel about passing the quarterfinals?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I feel good.  I play today two sets.  Today was a really hot day.  I play during the night, so I was lucky because during the day was terrible.   
Well, mentally and physically I feel good.  Today I have a day off just for practice, to focus on my next game.  Will be tough.  I mean, Madison play here last year the final.  She's the local player.  Well, will be tough.  She know how to play.  She has experience on this tournament.  For sure for me, well, will be tough.   
 Q.  Maria has been such a tough opponent for you in the past.  What were you pleased with tonight?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I tried to play aggressive, tried to be focus on my game.  Sometimes is difficult when you go on this amazing court for the first time.  Try to play aggressive, try to be solid sometimes because she hit fast the ball.  I have to run and fight.   
But I think I made a really complete match from the beginning until the end.  I'm happy with the way I play tonight.   
 Q.  Were you aware of her record in night matches at the US Open going into today?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I know that she never lost on night session because last night I saw her match a little bit, and they put on TV.  But, well, nothing change for me about this things.   
But Maria, it's a really good player.  I mean, she's one of the best.  Well, I'm happy to beat her tonight.   
 Q.  You had played three three-set matches going into this match.  Getting it done in straight sets, why do you think this was two sets and not another three?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I was focused.  When I won the first set, I say, Okay, Carla, go for one more.  That's it.  I mean, try to play like the first set, try to be focused there.   
Sometimes on this court, is easy to (indicating getting confused...)  Well, the crowd, the music, is crazy.  It's a really good show, but for the players sometimes is tough, especially for me, that was my first match today.   
But nothing special.  Just try to be focus.  I always say the same.  When I was there, I try to think about not too much things, just my work, my job.  Today it works.   
 Q.  What is most challenging about the way Madison plays?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, Madison play so aggressive.  She serve really good.  She has a really good forehand.  For me is tough.  When I play against people who play really fast, for me it's tough.   
But I have to be ready.  I think I'm ready.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT