ROLAND GARROS
June 3, 2014
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. BOUCHARD/C. Suarez Navarro
      7‑6, 2‑6, 7‑5 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you just speak about the match and sort of how it went from your perspective?  
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, for me it was a very difficult match.   I played good, but she's a really good player.   I was up in the first set; I lost.   I was up in the final set; I lost.   
    It is difficult to speak now.   I'm not happy with the result.   But she was fighting all the ball until the end.   She deserve to win.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish.   
   
 Q.   In fact, you were leading at the beginning.   Is it the worst defeat in your career?  
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Yes, you can say so.   This loss today is very difficult for me.   I was leading.   I won the first set.   The second I lost, but it was close.  
    And the third set was within my reach but I lost.   This happens sometimes.   She is a very tough player and she fought on each point until the end.  
    She was a big fighter, so I'm sad because I was seeing the semifinals within my reach.   But I learned a lot from this match.   These are the type of matches that give you a lot of experience, and now I will learn from it to react better in the future.  
    Right now it's a bit difficult, but I must say I'd rather lose today than last Monday, for instance.  
   
 Q.   This is a match which is full of lessons for you.   What did you learn?  
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I have to show more courage.   At 4‑1, I was a bit nervous.   She played the first five games in the set in a totally different way as compared to the way she played at the end of the match.  
    At the very beginning she gave me points.   I almost had nothing to do.   
    But then I was not showing enough courage on the court.   Next time I'll show more courage.  
   
 Q.   You can learn talking to your coach, can't you?  
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, no one can actually teach you how to step up from quarterfinals to semifinals.   It's very difficult.  
    Last year during the US Open when I lost or when I lost in the Australian Open quarterfinals or when I lost to Jankovic for the first time, I don't know how many games I won.   
    I have never been in such a situation like that in the past.   This is why I can learn a lot from this match.   These matches help you mature and see things differently.   And once again, I learned a lot.  
   
 Q.   Beyond this loss today, which is difficult for you, obviously, would you say that your level is the same as the one you had when you played Venus in the Australian Open?  
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   For the first two days here I suffered quite a lot.   My tennis was not at the same level.   
    But as from the third round, I found my bearings and I started playing better.   You gain level as a result of everything you do in the months before a tournament.   
    Actually, I think I played good matches here, and the outcome was due to few details.   I'm quite happy with the game level I demonstrated.   I think I'm on the right track.   I think I'll be able to fight against the top players.  
   
 Q.   I don't know if you've seen Garbine earlier on, but she lost.   Her match was a bit similar to yours.   You work together.   Maybe you'll fight for the doubles.   
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   No, I didn't see her.   Well, I saw her from afar, but I guess this was a tough loss for her as well.   She plays very well.   
    From what they told me, she was leading and the match was within her reach.   So we'll see how we can gain experience and maturity in the future.   
    No, we'll be stronger.   I'll see her later.   We'll talk about our matches.   We'll certainly talk about that quite a lot.   
    But tomorrow is another day, and I'm still very motivated.   I want to achieve a good result for the doubles.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT