ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2014
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/A. Tomljanovic 
      6‑3, 6‑3

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Quarters six years later, different from the one when you went from the quallies.   How did you feel and how do you feel to be back?
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Yeah, of course different, because the first time is always the first time.   But, yeah, I'm very happy. 
    It's difficult always in one Grand Slam going quarterfinals, and I played today really good.   I'm happy.   I'm waiting for the next match.

Q.   The next match is against Eugenie Bouchard.   How do you feel about this match?   Eugenie played well today, as you. 
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Yes, she won in two sets, really good match.   She's playing good.   She won one tournament last week.
    She's a good player.   She was in semifinal also in Australian Open.   It's gonna be a really tough match.

Q.   Your next opponent, Eugenie, what do you think is her best weapon?   Also, because you think you will play on clay, which is your favorite surface, do you think it gives you better chance against Eugenie?
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, no.   Better chance, no. 
    We are in the quarterfinals.   Always is very important match.   She's playing really good during this week, so for me it's tough.   She's coming, playing good.
    We will see what happen.

Q.   The top seeds have lost.   Is it a way for you to go further?
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   No, going match by match.   For me, the most important match is the next one.   And I say again for me will be a very tough and difficult match.
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish. 

Q.   During the first match it was difficult.   During the second match it was difficult?
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I said the other day that it was difficult.   I think I didn't manage well that match.   And it's only one game, it's only one tennis match, and I probably gave too much importance to that match. 
    What matters is that you manage the pressure.   It's an important season, and I played with a lot of tension, with a lot of pressure, and I managed to sort this out.
    Now, talking to Xavi helped me a lot.   I think that this change in my head, in my mind, came at the right time, so that these two matches I was able to really play well and be in the match.

Q.   The first break was a difficult moment, but then there were two games, one after another. 
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, to begin, it was difficult to return her serve.   Although I was able to break her, I wasn't feeling comfortable.
    After the first set, beginning of the second set, it's always a very important time.   Maybe the first game I played making too many mistakes.
    But what matters is that I was able to get my act together and I made the necessary changes.   The last two games, at the end of the match, I played in a conservative way, and all I had to do was return to my basics, the tactics I had used for the rest of the match.

Q.   Can you make comparisons with the Carla who reached quarterfinals in 2008 and the Carla you are today on the personal level and regarding tennis, as well?
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, on the personal level, what has changed between 2008 and 2014 is experience.   I have acquired more experience than at that time.   And talking about tennis, of course I can still improve. 
    I have change.   I am more aggressive, more consistent, but there is more I can do.   Compared with 2008, I'm definitely more aggressive.
    Now, when you're 25, you're more mature than when you're 18 or 19.   Nowadays, I am much more aware of what is taking place.   I have learned to take everything at the right level, give everything its deserved importance.   So I'm more mature than the Carla in 2008.

Q.   Eugenie Bouchard says in her press conference that she remembers your previous match.   Is it easier or maybe more difficult to play a seeded player?
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, we've met in Wimbledon.   We have played against each other in Wimbledon.   But you can't really compare a match on grass with a match on clay.   There is no way we can compare those two events.
    I have had a quick look at the match that she won in two sets.   I watched two or three games.   She really has played well, and she showed that when important moments she can play really, really well.   She's a dangerous player. 
    She's already reached the semifinals; whereas I have never done it.   I have never achieved to reach semifinals.   That's what I was saying during the English questions.   This is going to be a difficult match.   I'm going to have to do things really well.

Q.   There are seven players among the top 10 who have already been eliminated at this stage, quarterfinals.   Could you explain?   Why do you think so many favorite players have already been eliminated from the tournament?   Does this really tell us the situation in women's tennis?
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   I don't have a ready explanation.   I simply believe that the women's circuit is more and more consistent.   The competitiveness level and the tennis level is much more consistent.
    Every player wants to do well during great tournaments, and so the level is more consistent.   We've got to be careful.   Everybody plays well nowadays.
    And when one player comes really near the ranking of another player, obviously they compete with each other.   We all are aware that we can be beaten any time. 
    Take Sharapova or Serena.   Some players who already were ranked know quite well that the younger players who are coming back are ready to take their place.   They are knocking on the door.
    And it makes sense.   I mean, it's positive that there is a turnover and that things change.   It's good for the crowd, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT