ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2014
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/T. Townsend
      6‑2, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   She's a different kind of player.   Can you just talk about her style and what you thought about her game.   
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Yeah, of course.   She's a very talented player.   Is very difficult playing against her.   
    For me, it was difficult because she has a really good serve.   She has a really good forehand.   It's not easy.   
    I think she gonna be a really good player.  
   
 Q.   Still too many mistakes in general in her game?  
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, it's not easy playing here first year.   She beat Cornet the last day, so it's not easy.  
    But, well, for me, it was okay.   I was there all the time, and I play really good.   She helped me a little bit in the first set, but for me was okay.  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish.   
   
 Q.   You were saying that it was perhaps difficult for you to come back to positive sensations.   Maybe it was no longer the case today?  
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   That's true.   Yesterday I discussed with Xavi in the evening, and it really helped me a lot.   
    I thanked him very much for this, because, you know, I tried to explain my feelings that I had the impression that I had too many responsibilities on me and therefore when you step in on the court like this, it's very difficult to be in the game.  
    Whereas today, the way I looked at the match was totally different altogether.   I had more difficulties than usual except that today my feelings were a lot better.  
    I have the impression that I was playing against a player whose style was a bit anarchical.   It's difficult to find your rhythm against her, but I managed the game.   I focused 100% on each point.  
   
 Q.   Next round you're going to play against Tomljanovic.   What do you expect?   A very dangerous match?  
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I respect all players in the draw, mainly the ones who have already defeated other players who made me suffer, like Cornet, for instance, and Townsend beat her, defeated her, so I quite respect her.  
    Radwanska, as well, has a lot of experience and I fully respect her.   I think she's a dangerous player; otherwise she wouldn't have won so many matches so easily on the Chatrier court.  
    So I'd rather play against Tomljanovic than Radwanska, but, you know, all of my five senses will have to be totally open, but I think it's feasible.  
   
 Q.   Back to this thing you mentioned before, that is, about responsibilities on you.   Would you say that therefore you have more pressure on you, more responsibilities on your shoulder now that the draw has opened up?  
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I think that, you know, there are many matches to play again.   I'm going to play against Tomljanovic, but there are still others like Garbine, like Stosur, as well, and many, many players again still on the courts who have done so many great things during Grand Slams.  
    So my responsibility doesn't come from this, that is, from the fact that the draw is either open or closed, but I will have to be present 100% for the next match.   
   
 Q.   Now, to come back to doubles, did you play well with Garbine?   And do you think you can win the title after having excellent results during other tournaments?  
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, the beginning of the match was a bit difficult.   The other two players are difficult to play against.   They play so fast.  
    When it's doubles and you come to the net, then, you know, they play from the baseline and very strong balls and quick shots is what they play.  
    And the day before, I had suffered a lot during my singles, and Garbine as well had had a difficult singles match before.  
    So it was not easy.   But we play well together, so we managed the whole situation well during these two sets, but it's too early to talk about doubles and winning the doubles title.   We'll see tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I would like you, if you don't mind, to tell us more about the Spanish players.   It seems that they are doing well at present.   
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I've always said that we try and do our best during these matches.   We put out our best tennis.   
    I looked at Garbine every day.   I know that she works hard and practices hard and therefore I think that she deserves her wins.   I think that women's tennis is now gaining a position in the sun, if I can say, at world level.   We've always had good women players.   We should have more and more of them.   If we have Garbine, that's good, as well.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel good and prepared, ready for Roland Garros?   I mean, to win Roland Garros.   
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I think so.   I think I'm ready.   Well, that means I trust all the work I put in before Roland Garros, that is.   I practiced, and the huge quantity of work we do before, that's true for me and my coach, as well.   We work together for these types of tournaments, you see.   
    I think that there's still a lot of work ahead of us, a lot that remains to be done.  
    But for the time being, I think I'm ready, yes, for the next round.  
   
 Q.   Well, at present, I suppose you have to recover.   Physically I think you'll have a day off to take a rest.   So why are you so stubborn to play doubles during your rest day?  
    CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, you know, I think that playing doubles is something very positive.   It's always been the case for me.   It's always helped me serve better and also improve my returns mainly.  
    This is where I would say I've been able to improve my level.   I'm much more aggressive during doubles, which is exactly what you were saying.  
    And you know what's interesting in the Grand Slams is that in singles you have one day when you feel good and another day when you don't play.   With doubles you're still in the tour, in the competition, if you see what I mean.   
    If people see that for me playing doubles is more negative than positive, I will stop playing doubles.   But I'm doing this at present because it helps me a lot.   I have thought about it beforehand, so I know what I'm doing.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT