MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 8, 2014
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/C. Suarez Navarro
  6‑2, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Spanish, please. 

Q.   (Question regarding previous matches with Serena.)
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   It's true that the matches that I previously had with Serena had not been very good in respect to my feelings.   She's been very superior to me.   Well, today in the match I was facing it in a different way.
Well, you know what, the last time we played in Rome and I was not 100%.   Perhaps it was a match that I wanted to play today, but in the end Serena makes me play bad. 
You know, she keeps me really behind the baseline.   You know, I had my options, but it makes me lose my feelings out there.   Maybe when she's behind she starts to strike really well and serves really well and makes everything; that's what I can't do. 

Q.   Do you feel a lot of pressure?   There hasn't been a player like you since Arantxa or Conchita.   Do you feel like you have to make it to the semifinals, quarterfinals? 
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   No, you know, I mean, the fact that Arantxa and Conchita were so good for us, it's not easy to equal them.
But what is true is that when I go to the court or start a new year, I don't think of having to do well and having to show that I'm the No. 1 in Spain or having to equal what they've done.
I think the opposite.   I think there are two complete different eras.   They just lived their time, and right now I'm living my time. 

Q.   There are things that you can work on, like the serve or maybe others you cannot work on, like for example the altitude or your height.   Whenever you play against a player like Serena, do you think there is a little bit of drama?   What's your feeling? 
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, yeah, you know, it's true that there has been a really big difference there, especially when she was giving back the serves compared to me.
I didn't feel that whenever my first serve came in that she was really returning it so good.   2‑1, 30‑15 I missed. 
Perhaps if I was 3‑1 up maybe things could have changed a little bit.
But still, she was returning well all my balls.   I think after all, when you play against these people, it's not only tennistically.   You have to know she can play really well against you, but you have your options.
You have to be mentally strong in order go over those moments, which is not what happened out there today. 

Q.   As you say, perhaps today you had more options in front of Serena.   Does this build confidence to play against her next time?   Do you think that from now on you can do more when you play against her?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, it's clear that Serena, like other players or me, that we have two versions, whenever they play on clay or hard.   I think that when Serena plays on clay may be she's not as good.
She's still No. 1, the best player.   The two previous years she's beaten all of us here.   I think that whenever we play each other on clay we have a different mentality knowing that we can hurt her.   We just go with another mentality. 

Q.   I wanted to ask you, for the doubles today, you and Garbine remind me a lot of Marrero and Verdasco, because I was asking one day Marrero if it's tough to keep Verdasco in the match because he leaves the match psychologically talking.   I saw Garbine when she lost three points she was leaving the match.   Are you keeping her in the match? 
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, you know, it's true that in all of the doubles there is always one that pulls up the other player.   Perhaps we can call him a leader or something.   I think that today that was not the case.
I was coming from my singles.   It was straightaway my doubles.   It was a little bit heavy out there.   In the beginning I felt I was a little bit slow.   It was difficult for me to see the short balls. 
At the beginning of the match Garbine was pulling the doubles.   At the second set, well, you know, we changed thanks to her aggressiveness.   Little by little I started to get into the match and we ended up playing well.
She also played well.   In the end, Garbine a player that risks a lot and plays really aggressive.   Sometimes whenever she misses a volley or a ball she gets a little bit angry, but she has the capacity to react in the next point.

Q.   Knowing doubles can give you an Olympic medal, why do you play with Garbine when we don't know if she will play for Spain?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I don't know, sincerely.   I know that I think it's a decision she has to make.   Logically if she played for Spain, I think it's really positive for us. 
You know, talking about some possible Olympics, I think we can be a really good team.   We can play a couple of doubles this year and try to play even more in 2015 and to be out there in 2016 having played a lot of doubles and to have an option for the doubles. 

Q.   Are you more confident than in previous years, and how does that affect your game? 
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO:   Well, I think that tennis players normally have up and downs.   It's clear that I have been growing.   It's true you can see that in the game out there.
But, well, I think that I'm in a different era.   I'm feeling really good in my career.   I think I have things clear.   I think I have to get better, and I a, just doing my goals, accomplishing my goals.
That makes me feel better and want to play more.   Well, I have a clear goal, which is maybe perhaps at the end of the year I can achieve it.   I don't know.   We'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT