CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 25, 2018
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. SABALENKA/C. Suarez Navarro   
6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  She started out so fast.  Did you feel like you were hitting behind the eight ball right away?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, she start really good.  She play for me amazing today.  The second set was different.  But, well, she play good, relaxed.  Every ball was on the point that she won.   
Well, I tried to change the situation in the second set, but I was close.  I mean, that game of the 5-4, I think I didn't play bad.  She was before than me today.   
 Q.  Do you think it affected you in the final to not have as many matches as she did?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, maybe.  She's playing a lot of matches.  She's with a lot of confidence.  She has more rhythm.   
But, well, not this week think the key of the match because we play a lot of matches, we play a lot of points.  For she, I think was really a complete match.  I was there, I was there, I was trying, but not enough today.   
 Q.  How do you feel going into New York?  Where do you feel your game is right now after this week?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: I feel good.  I mean, always when you play a final, when you have a good result, it's good, you feel good.  I mean, physically I feel good.  I have no problems.   
It's a Grand Slam.  I go so motivated.  I play on Tuesday my first match so I can practice tomorrow a little bit, then Monday starting to prepare my match.   
Well, I feel good.  I want in the US Open, I want to play, then we will see what happen there.   
 Q.  Do you see her as someone who is on the rise, win a lot of tournaments in the future?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, yeah.  I mean, she has a lot of power.  She play fast.  She know how to play, how to serve, she return good.  She's really a complete player.  She's young.  With more experience will be a really difficult player, for sure.  I think she will have a lot of success in the future, yeah.   
 Q.  What did you change up in the second set?  Did your coach tell you anything that helped you?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, tried to play a little bit more aggressive the balls that I can.  In the first set, I don't think that I play bad.  I have some balls that I wasn't solid that I want.  She didn't give me opportunities to play a little bit, so the point was too fast.   
In the second set, I tried to stay a little bit more focused, tried to serve a little bit better.  In the first set, my first service didn't work good.  I tried to move her, but it was difficult.  I don't know if you saw the match or not, but she was playing good.  I was trying.   
Well, sometimes you lost because you play bad, but today I don't think so.  I think she play a really good match.  I was there.  As I say before, wasn't enough today.   
 Q.  A lot of deuces.  Do you feel if you won those points, things might be different?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, different for sure.  It's not the same serving with 5-4 up or 5-4 down.  Yeah, was a long game.  That ball so close in the 40-15.  But, yeah, details, details that counts too much on this level.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT