CONNECTICUT OPEN
August 23, 2018
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. SUAREZ NAVARRO/P. Kvitova   
6-3 (ret.)   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Not the way you wanted to reach the semifinals, but it must feel great to be in a semifinals.  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, always, no, being in semifinals is a good thing.  But, well, I know Petra.  She wants to be good for the US Open.  Is normal, no?  She was playing a lot of matches in Cincinnati and Montreal, so is not easy.   
Well, I think I was playing good, really aggressive.  I'm happy to be in the next round.   
 Q.  Have you felt like you've been playing pretty well in the tournament so far?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah.  Also my first match I played really good, good game.  I really enjoy my time on court.  I think I was doing a really good job.   
Also today, it's the first time that I play night session.  It's a little bit different.  But, well, yeah, I think that I'm playing focused on my game.  I know what I have to do to play good.   
 Q.  Winning on a walkover, you've been a little bit fortunate, too, along with the good play, right?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah.  I was also in Montreal.  Also I have one retirement.  Sometimes happen.   
But, well, you have to be there.  We play all weeks.  Sometimes is difficult to be good in every tournament, every week.   
But I have tomorrow one more opportunity to play my game, try to play good, try to enjoy, and try to play my first final of the season.   
 Q.  Was it strange for you last week in Montreal playing quallies?  I don't remember the last time you played quallies.  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I have to play qually this year in Sydney because, yeah, I finish the year so-so.   
Yeah, I forgot to sign in the dates I have to.  But, well, at least I have to play only two matches, not three.  Well, sometimes happen.  You have to be there, play.   
 Q.  Your next opponent is Monica Puig.  You're very familiar with her.  You've beaten her a few times.  She can be tough when she's on a roll.  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Yeah, I know her from a long time ago.  I know that she can play really fast, really aggressive.   
Well, I have to be focused, like every match.  Every match is so tough.  She beat today Caroline Garcia, a really good player.  I know how she can play.   
But, well, try to play my game, try to play like today.  We will see what happen at the end of the match.   
 Q.  Any reason why you've had so much success against her?  You beat her in straight sets every time you've beaten her.  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, I don't know.  Every time I'm going on court, I want to play good, I want to play my best tennis.  Sometimes with some players you feel like you play more comfortable, and sometimes you play against players that you feel not good, you feel bad.  So you have to learn about this and you have to know how to play against all the players.   
 Q.  Today in your match with Petra, did you ever get a feeling she was injured?  
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, a little bit in her serve maybe.  But I was thinking more maybe is the night session, maybe she was tired from yesterday.  I don't know.  I was thinking some things, but not too much.  I was focused on my game.   
Sometimes I think she can serve a little bit faster.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT