MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 10, 2018
Carla Suarez Navarro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








C. GARCIA/C. Suarez Navarro
6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Spanish, please.
Q. Can you speak a little bit about the game, what happened.  Were you too tired?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Well, yeah, I was a bit tired.  Of course, when you face opponents like today, you have to give a little bit extra, a little bit more of everything.  Today it was not the case.
I haven't been right.  These kind of players don't give you opportunities.  Perhaps in the first set and second set, I wasn't playing really good.  But players that play up in the top 5 or top 10, they don't give you any opportunity.  You have to give extra.  Today I wasn't able to do that.  I wasn't able to give her problems or turn the match around.
Q. You were saying today you were not doing great.  You leave Madrid making it to the quarterfinals, eliminating the No. 4 of the world.  What is your overall feeling?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Now, it's a little bit difficult to say.  To win matches, to make it to the quarterfinals, it's always more or less a good week.  I've always said many times, I'm tired of saying I made it to the quarterfinals and the week is good.  At the end you lose in quarterfinals, you leave the tournament.
The fact that I have been able to play a lot of matches here, I think it's something positive.  Well, I'll try to keep on the same line and try to do a little bit better in Rome, try to improve.
Q. Yesterday you were saying your preferred court is 2 and 3 because the people are closer.  Today you played on the center court.  Do you think that affected your game today?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: No, no.  I'm used to playing on all types of courts.  I already trained on center court.  I already played a charity event on the center court.  Doesn't have anything to do with it.
Maybe on a small court, my opponent wouldn't have found so many spaces.  At the end of the day the measurements of the court are the same and I don't think it would have changed a lot to play on another court.  The size is the same on every court.
Q. Who is the favorite of this tournament for you?
CARLA SUAREZ NAVARRO: Halep, without doubt.  I don't know who else we have in the draw.  I think she's still out there.  Maybe Sharapova, too.  I don't know who else is going to play.
If I had to say one, I would say Halep because we can see how she has played.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT