SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 17, 2014
Andrew Svoboda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How would you compare yesterday's round to today's round?   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yesterday I hit it a little bit better than I hit it today, but I played great today, too.   I putted really well today.   I made some long putts today.  
   
 Q.   It seems like you kind of built some momentum.   You started on the 10th hole, when you made the turn, birdie on 18 and it kept going from there.   Is that what happened?  
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah, pretty much.   I birdied 18, 1 and 2, and then I just played pretty solid from there in.   I birdied 9.   All in all, it was a great day.   
   
 Q.   Did you kind of sense this coming as far as your play goes?   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   I played well here last year.   I think I finished 14th, so I like this course.   I've been hitting the ball well, so as long as I make some putts, I think I'll be all right.   
   
 Q.   Kind of weird this year, the scoring.   There was 10‑under par about five hours into the golf last year, and it doesn't seem like the scoring is quite as good this year.   What's going on?  
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah, I think the course is playing a little bit longer.   The par‑5s are a little bit harder to get to, a little more wind.   I'm not sure.   I'm sure the guys will go pretty low this afternoon.   Conditions look great.   
   
 Q.   I think yesterday it seemed like the scoring, the greens really changed in the afternoon.   They got firmer, and the guys in the afternoon had a little more difficult time scoring.   You weren't one of them.   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah, the greens did get firm yesterday afternoon, so we'll see what happens today.   Not much wind, so we'll just see what the scores are like.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts going into the weekend?   You've got to go low here.   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah, you've got to go low, make a lot of birdies.   Hopefully I'll be able to do that, and I think hitting it in the fairway is key, and hitting your wedges, when you have a wedge, you've got to hit it close.   
   
 Q.   How do you get a cheesecake sponsorship?   That's pretty good.   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   I used to caddie for the guy whose dad started it at Old Oaks.  
   
 Q.   Do you get all the free cheesecake you ever want?  
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Sure, oh, yeah.   
   
 Q.   I think you may be the only guy on TOUR with a cheesecake sponsorship.   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah, I'm glad I have any sponsorship.  
   
 Q.   Did you have to make major adjustments to play this morning from yesterday, or did you just try to stay with the work yesterday for the most part?  
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah, I didn't drive it as good today in the beginning, and I just kind of dug it out and hit a good 7‑iron on 18 for birdie and then I birdied 1, and then I made a nice putt on 2, and that kind of got me going, and I birdied 6.   I hit a good putt there, and I birdied 9.   I made six birdies.  
   
 Q.   I was talking to one of the guys who works here.   He said that the rough was a little longer, and he said that may be‑‑  
ANDREW SVOBODA:   This year?   Yeah, maybe.  
   
 Q.   Have you sensed anything there?  
ANDREW SVOBODA:   I think it's playing a little longer.   I think the ball is not quite going‑‑ last year it was going, like you were hitting irons into these par‑5s.   Now it seems like the ball is going maybe 15 yards less for some reason.   Maybe it's not as firm or the fairways are more flush, they have more grass, they're not as fast.   
   
 Q.   Why do you think your game suits this course so well?   Obviously you're putting the ball exceptionally well, but why do you think your game fits this course as well as it does?  
ANDREW SVOBODA:   I usually drive it really good, and this course you've got to drive it good, and I like these greens.   Putting is one of my strengths.   
   
 Q.   And now you've got the weekend to take a run at this thing?  
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What would it mean to win for you personally?  
ANDREW SVOBODA:   It would be a dream come true.   I won on the Web Tour twice, had a second out here last year, and when you're a kid you always dream about winning on the TOUR.  
   
 Q.   You played at St.John's, right?   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Where did St.John's play their home matches, what course?  
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Bethpage.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT