ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 25, 2014
Andrew Svoboda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Andrew, one blemish in 36 holes.   What is working so well for you?   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   I'm hitting the ball great, and I'm putting really well.   I got this new Odyssey putter in my bag, and I've been making a lot of putts.  
   
 Q.   How daunting is it seeing Ben's name up there way ahead before even teeing off your round?   You kind of came out and caught him today.  
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah, I shot 4‑under.   I played really, really well.   That was a really good round he posted.   I was playing my game and shooting 4‑under.   I'll take that.  
   
 Q.   You see a lot of first timers play well in this tournament, players without a win, that is.   Anything you see that might lend itself to that trend?   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Well, you've got to hit the ball really well here, and it's a great track.   You've really got to strike the ball very well.  
   
 Q.   A bit of unfamiliar territory playing in the final group tomorrow.   What is your game plan going forward?   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   I've got to go out there and try to make birdies and hitting a lot of fairways would be key for me.   If I drive the ball well and putt well, I should be good.  
   
 Q.   How do you think you're going to sleep tonight knowing you're in the final group?   How often have you been in the final group?   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Never.   We'll see, hopefully good.  
   
 Q.   Given the way you're playing so far, are you going to be able to let go of that last putt?   We were just talking about how you haven't had one single bogey?   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah, the first putt was slow, and I hit a bad second putt there.   But I dug pretty hard today.   I played really well, so I'm pretty happy.  
   
 Q.   The putter that you have now, how is it different than the other one?   It's an Odyssey?   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah, it's a new Odyssey Metal‑X.   I bent it to 71 °.   It's got the grooves on the face and just the ball comes off really good.  
   
 Q.   What are some of the highlight shots or favorite shots of the round?   
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Highlight shots?   I made a birdie from the second hole.   I had like a 40‑yard bunker shot.   That was a highlight.   I had five birdies.   I birdied 13, made a good birdie there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT