ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2014
Andrew Svoboda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome Andrew Svoboda to the media center, with an 8‑under 64 today, tying the course record and a birdie on 18.   Maybe you could take us through the round and what worked well for you out there, and we'll open it up for a few questions. 
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Well, I drove the ball really great, and on the front nine I shot 2‑under, and making the turn I kind of caught fire.   Birdied both par‑3s on the back, and 4‑iron to about 6 feet on 1, and 17 I hit a great 4‑iron about 20 feet, 25 feet and made the putt.   Then I had a nice up‑and‑down on 18 out of the sand.   So all in all, it was a really great day.

Q.   I think you have a New Orleans connection here?   Your coach is Carl Rabito; is that right? 
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yes.

Q.   How long have you been with him? 
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Since 2006.

Q.   What's he worked on with you in the past year or so? 
ANDREW SVOBODA:   He totally revamped my swing in 2006, changed everything.   He really made me into a great ball striker.   I owe a lot of my success to him, for sure.

Q.   What was the best‑‑ what was working for you mostly today? 
ANDREW SVOBODA:   I hit the ball really well.   When I missed the green, I was just off.   I had easy saves.   I don't think I made a bogey.   I just hit my wedges close, and I also putted really great.   Got a new putter in my bag, and it was really hot today.

Q.   When you made the turn at only 2‑under, did you have any idea it could grow like it did?   Did you have that feeling that it could come? 
ANDREW SVOBODA:   I mean, I played solid on the front.   I was pretty happy with 2‑under.   And my caddie was like shoot 2‑under on the back.   Putts start going in, so it was great.

Q.   Talk about closing on 18 like that.   You looking at par in all likelihood, all of a sudden, ball is in the cup.   What kind of feeling is that to close a good round to make it a great round? 
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah, I birdied 17 and 18, so that was a great finish.   I didn't hit a great bunker shot on 18, but my caddie gave me a really good read, and the putt just hung in there, played it left edge.   I thought it was going to go a little right, but it just hung in there, and it was a great way to finish.

Q.   How have you been playing this year?   Have you been pleased with your play up until this point? 
ANDREW SVOBODA:   I've played okay.   I haven't played great.   I finished like 24th at Valero, maybe 24th in Puerto Rico, so those are probably my best two finishes.   I was playing pretty good at Valero, I just had a tough last round with the wind and shot like 3‑over.   But I've been playing pretty solid.   Just need the putter to start going in a lot.

Q.   Is that what happened today? 
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah, I made a lot of putts today.

Q.   How long was the putt on 18? 
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Probably about 15 feet.

Q.   Did the wind start to pick up a little bit maybe in the middle of your back nine? 
ANDREW SVOBODA:   Yeah, the wind did pick up on the back nine, for sure.   I hit some great iron shots that went through the wind.   Like I said, I really hit the ball great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT