SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2010
Melanie Balcomb
Jence Rhoads
Hannah Tuomi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: Joining us from Vanderbilt, head Coach Balcomb and student-athletes. Coach, if you make an opening statement. 
 COACH BALCOMB: I just liked their defensive effort tonight. Thought we did a great job knowing where certain people were, taking their strengths away, and then rebounding. When we out-rebound people, we have a great shot.
 So (indiscernible) one shot and a tough shot, and I thought that kept us in the game all night. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for the coach or student-athletes. 

 Q. Early in the first half down 12 points, talk about the team battling back. 
 COACH BALCOMB: Well, we've been struggling with leads this year. So I decided to remind them it's hard to hold leads, and that they're probably going to get tentative and start to hold leads. 
 So I tried to put them in their shoes and say, Hey, they're going to be tentative. We have to get aggressive, and the aggressor is going to win. I thought every time we got down, we got real aggressive, and the two sitting next to me got very aggressive. 
 Jence was driving it to the basket or dumping it to Hannah down low. 

 Q. Do you think the experience last night helped you down the stretch in this game?
 COACH BALCOMB: Absolutely. I always think when you play a game on this court it helps you because you've won a game on this court. So they have the first-round jitters and we're already in the second round. I think mentally you can have an advantage. 

 Q. Coach, this is the fourth consecutive time you've beaten LSU in the SEC. Do you have some secret of beating LSU now? 
 COACH BALCOMB: No. But I do I think it's mental going into the game. I think, you know, when you have any kind of mental edge at this time of the year and they know that they've been beaten last year when we beat 'em and we beat 'em in the final, and recently we've beaten 'em, so I think they know we've won a lot of games in these tournaments. 
 We're confident. Maybe they're a little more hesitant. It can never hurt you - put it that way. 

 Q. For coach and the players, could you kind of address the challenge of having to play three games in a row, and against a team as good as Tennessee. 
 JENCE RHOADS: Well, I mean, obviously it will be a challenge because that's a lot of games and a lot of minutes. 
 But it's a tournament time. That's what you do. We came here to play. We're excited. We'll be going off adrenaline, so I don't think it will be a problem. 
 HANNAH TUOMI: I think it's going to come down to the toughest team who battles the hardest will come out with the win. 
 COACH BALCOMB: You know, I always look at it kind of oddly. We practiced a lot for three hours, and I would say that that's harder -- and we do it every day, day after day. A 40-minute game or a 45-minute game yesterday, I'd say it's not as hard. The games are easier than practices. That's the way I always look at it. They should be ready to go, because they had a shorter day than practice. 

 Q. This is for the players. You start out the season probably not clicking on all cylinders. As the season goes along, when Vanderbilt gets into the SEC tournament, they're dangerous. Why is that? 
 JENCE RHOADS: This lady. She keeps pushing us all season. Like we said, practice every day. We eventually start clicking. The younger kids get more minutes, then people start stepping up. This one over here plays really well. Just by tournament time, we're ready to play.
 HANNAH TUOMI: Of course, beginning of the season is going to be rough for every team. Coach does a really good job of pushing us. Whenever we have a slump in the season, she makes sure we get out of that and when we get out of the season, make sure we can be the best team we can be. 

 Q. (Questions regarding playing in Baton Rouge a few weeks ago.)
 JENCE RHOADS: Definitely. We talked about that before the game on the bus ride here. We didn't want to come out like we did in Baton Rouge. We weren't proud of that game at all. It was one of our worst games all year. We wanted to get a little bit of revenge and show them what we were really made of. 

 Q. Hannah, you had great positioning on the floor tonight, open under the basket. Where did you develop your hook shot? 
 HANNAH TUOMI: The hook shot? Well, I believe I was about like 10 years old or something and my dad took me in the backyard. And it was like, Here is the first move that I shot or that he practiced. So he just showed it to me, and I've been using it ever since. 

 Q. This is for coach. Did an article about prepping going against Vanderbilt. How many offenses do you actually run? 
 COACH BALCOMB: One year at Xavier I was asked that, so my players counted. Out of bounds, halfcourt, out of transition, dead ball, quick hitters, side, under, and we had 64. 
 I could tell you right now, I mean, that's why Vanderbilt was a good place for me to coach. I had to stay with the smart girls. Right now we don't have half as many plays. This is the least amount of plays we've ever had. 
 But I always take pride in being a very tough scout, which makes it very hard for people to play us with 24-hour notice in tournament time. 
 This year we have so many players playing multiple positions, I mean, there's some plays Jence plays the post. Hannah never plays the point. But we have so many people. I've never had a team as versatile as this team. So we have less plays. We're playing different spots within those plays, which takes a lot of time. 
 We generally have players playing two spots, maybe three. We have a lot of players playing three and four spots right now. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT