SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2006
Melanie Balcomb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 COACH MELANIE BALCOMB:  I think the big thing tonight was our mentality.  You know, we turned the ball over probably the first five times out of eight possessions we got it.  And then it really affected us, affected our shots.  We let it affect everything that we did, very similar to when we played at home against Georgia.  We missed shots, turned the ball over, gave them easy baskets, then put our heads down.   
 What's disappointing is the mentality that we weren't able to get out of.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about Georgia's quickness, athleticism?  Is that a tough match-up?  Talk about that match-up.   
 COACH MELANIE BALCOMB:  It's tough because, you know, this is a very athletic team.  I think their guards -- obviously their back court has great experience and great athleticism, probably the quickest in the country.  They've played man for three years, and now they're playing a zone.  I know from playing it last time and watching it on film, they probably play a zone better than they do man because they really can get in the passing lanes and create havoc.   
 If you have young guards that are telegraphing passes, then they also get up and pressure you.  If you don't protect the basketball, you pick it up, then you pass the ball away...  I think we had a lot of guards not handle the pressure on the perimeter because of what they create defensively.  They create a lot of havoc on the basketball and in passing lanes.   
  Q.  How closely would you call this a carbon copy of what happened in Nashville?  Did you see anything any different from where you were?   
 COACH MELANIE BALCOMB:  No.  I think it was very similar.  That's what's disappointing, is I don't think we made the changes we needed to make.  I thought after winning the last three games that we won that we would have more confidence, and that if we did make mistakes or we did turn the ball over or miss shots, that we wouldn't let it take ourselves out of it.   
 But, you know, at the same time I'm not one of those coaches that just, you know, is going berate my own team and blame them.  We didn't step up and do what we needed to do mentally.  But at the same time I think this is a very, very good Georgia team.  I think they create a lot of the mistakes that they make with their quickness, like I said, and their athleticism.  They have a great inside-out game.  They have probably one of the best post players in the country as well as athletic guards.  When they're on, they're on.  They're very, very explosive and they're very confident right now.  They make you look bad, too.  It's not us just being bad; they're a very good team.   
  Q.  (No microphone).   
 COACH MELANIE BALCOMB:  I think it's tough.  You know, I'm not going to make any excuses.  We've been through this.  We know what it's like to play back-to-back.  We played more people, so we shouldn't have been as tired as we were.  We got very tired very quickly.  They weren't (indiscernible) much at all.   
 I'm not going to make any excuses.  I'd love to be able to say that's what it was, but I don't think that affected us.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT