KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
March 28, 2002
Gloria Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







NEAL REID:  If you could just talk about how you played today.  On the way over, you told me it was different than the practice rounds because of the wind; if you could just tell them about that.
GLORIA PARK:   Well, this is the first time I was playing here, but when I played a practice round in the Pro-Am it was different wind and different condition than today.  And some of the holes was downwind  -- they were into the wind.  Always make me feel kind of playing like different course.  I just changed my driver yesterday and it didn't work properly on the first couple of holes with the tee shots, but I recovered pretty good with my short game around the greens, chip and putt, so I made some good putts there today. 

Q.  Why did you decide to change your driver on the eve of the Kraft Nabisco?
GLORIA PARK:   I've just been working on my swing; when I played in Hawaii and I didn't like my driver.  I just couldn't decide  -- keep trying a couple of different ones and then had a chance I would use it.  Yesterday I tried my driver, it went pretty good, but I just take it to the golf course and it didn't work very good the first couple of holes, but then it was pretty okay during the round. 

Q.  Will you play with it tomorrow?
GLORIA PARK:   Yeah, definitely.  Yeah. 

Q.  You said this was your first time here? 
GLORIA PARK:   Yes.

Q.  This tournament has a lot of history.  Can you tell us what you know about it and what are your first impressions being here?
GLORIA PARK:   All in all, the greens  -- in water  -- (Inaudible.)

Q.  What are your impressions about the course? 
GLORIA PARK:   Well, it's really nice course.  I really like the greens.  Nice greens, and I heard rough was not bad last year, but maybe grow up on Sunday.  So be patient and try to keep the fairways and greens, as many as I can and try to make the putts, I think is a good key for playing good the rest of the week. 

Q.  A lot of people say that they need  -- you need a lot of experience to do well on this course.  Obviously, you don't have that.  Why do you think this course suits you so well and why do you think you played so well today? 
GLORIA PARK:   Just I played really well last weekend and week before I changed my putter yesterday, too.  I just didn't make many mistakes today.  I made some really good keys and saved some really good putts  -- lots of long putts that makes me confident.  So I think just play aggressively and sometime you have to be happy with -- to walk off the green with par. 

Q.  Do you feel that this course  -- you're comfortable with this course then?
GLORIA PARK:   Yeah, pretty much so, yeah.  But I just kind can't say it's easy, but just have to play smart, keep in the fairway and greens, as many as I can; and if I make some putts it's really good.  And have to be in the right position to make the pars, too, birdie putts, too. 

Q.  How many practice rounds do you have? 
GLORIA PARK:   Practice rounds, on Monday, one.  Just one.  And then played in the Pro-Am on Tuesday. 

Q.  You played Tuesday this course and Wednesday the other course twice. 
GLORIA PARK: So twice, yeah.
NEAL REID:  If we could go over your scorecard, your birdies and bogeys.  What did you hit on No. 2, your birdie on 2? 
GLORIA PARK:   I hit driver and then I tried to hit to the green and I hit it fat and ended up short of the green and then I chip-and-putt. 
NEAL REID: How far was your putt? 
GLORIA PARK:  Three feet. 
NEAL REID:  Okay.  On 3, your birdie, what did you hit in there? 
GLORIA PARK:  Hit my 9-wood, second shot.  It was about ten feet. 
NEAL REID:  You bogeyed No. 4. 
GLORIA PARK:   Yes, I hit my driver pretty good and I pulled my second shot to the left in the rough and made a chip, but it was kind of difficult going down and uphill again.  So I missed the putt about seven, eight feet. 
NEAL REID:  Then birdie on 11. 
GLORIA PARK:  I hit driver into the rough on the left and then hit my 4-wood right side of the fairway, and then I hit my 60-degree wedge to about a foot, six inches. 
Bogey on 14, the par  3.  I hit my 8-iron a little bit  -- a chunk, fat again.  And I ended up short and then I tried to putt from the edge and then went past the hole and then I missed the second putt. 
NEAL REID: How far was your second putt?
GLORIA PARK:   Three, four feet. 
NEAL REID: And then you bogeyed 15. 
GLORIA PARK:   Hit my driver into the right side tree, near the tree and I had to chip it out with my 9-iron.  And hit my pitching wedge; and wind was gusting and I didn't get close to the pin and it was a really, really long putt for a par. 
NEAL REID: How far do you think your par putt was? 
GLORIA PARK:   Oh, it was about 20 yards almost.  I missed, about three yards short and I made the second one. 
NEAL REID:  And then you birdied 17 and 18.
GLORIA PARK:   I hit my 5-iron and it was about eight feet. 
18, hit 3-wood and 3-wood, and 9-iron knock-down shot, and then it was about three-foot feet, four feet. 
NEAL REID: 9-iron to four feet?  Thank you. 
Q.  As you played the last few holes, after the two bogeys, did you intentionally play more aggressively to try to make up shots on 17 and 18? 
GLORIA PARK:   Well, 17 kind of is a difficult hole for me.  In the practice round  -- inaudible -- so I didn't think about the birdie on 17.  But I hit good shot and kind of lucky to get close to the pin, and then I made a putt; so it was kind of bonus. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT