MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2000
Gloria Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GLORIA PARK:   4, I hit driver.  Hit it about 230, 240.  Second shot, my 7-iron, 138.  And I hit it about four or five meters (12  to 15 feet).  So I made a birdie putt.  And then 6, I hit driver and I hit it 245, and made my second shot with my 5-iron and I hit it like really close, two inches.   And I birdied again, 8.  I hit my driver and I hit a second shot just thin, kind of over the bunker in the rough and I chipped it.  I 2-putted from there.   And then the 8th, I hit a poor shot again just in front of the green, and there was like 15 -, 16-yard putt on the edge and I made it.  I hit a 5-wood in.  And I birdied again 13, the par 3.  I hit my 7-wood, thin shot again just from the fringe.  Five, six meters (15 to 18 feet), just off the green and I made the putt.   I made bogey on the 15th.  I 3-putted if from there.  And then I made a birdie on 17.  I hit my 5-iron just in, close. 

GLORIA PARK:   I was very excited, and so I was in kind of  -- I'm playing really good.  And on Tuesday I had a practice round, 27 holes and I got really tired from that, but I played good.  The front nine was pretty difficult for me when I practiced.  I played an extra nine holes again try to do better than what I was doing the first nine.  And then I played nine holes after with Se Ri  -- got some advice from her.  So that helps a lot.  And then I  -- my dad was caddying for me this week.  And I just have some confidence with my game.  I hit it really aggressive, my iron shots, second shots; so that makes me have some birdies and have a chance today. 

GLORIA PARK:   No.  I played at Myrtle Beach, 67. 

GLORIA PARK:   I didn't like  -- I didn't hit my drivers aggressively the front nine.  The front nine was long so I have to place it in the right place, second shots, angles and things like that.  And I didn't do very well in practice round, but she showed me the way how to play, every hole she hit , I just followed her, the way she played, and that helped a lot.

GLORIA PARK:   It was still wet when I played the front nine.  When I hit the second shot, I can feel the water in the fairways.  It was okay. 

GLORIA PARK:   Yeah, when I played the front nine, it was holding, but when I played later this afternoon, it was bouncing a little. 

GLORIA PARK:   I try to play the same way.  Maybe today I hit some lucky putts, also, so I just want to play aggressive again and try the best I can.  That's about it. 


Q.  Could you talk a little bit about your career background?  I understand you were born in Korea and you have trained in Australia.  When did you move and start playing golf?

GLORIA PARK:   I born in Korea, and I started to play golf when I was 13 and I went to  -- I left.  I went to Australia and I played golf and learned some English, and that was in 1994.  And I played from there junior golf, and I won the 1996, 1997, 1998 Australian Junior Championship, and also 1997 Australian amateur, 72 hole stroke-play.  And then I was on the team for two years, representative of Australia, and then I decided to turn pro when I was 18.  So that was 1998, end of February.  And I turned pro when I was in Australia, and then I moved back to Korea doing the Q-school.  And then I played some tournaments in Korea, I won one tournament, and then I played in Asian circuit in 1998, 1999 and I won the Indonesian Open, and then I decided to go to Japan for Q-school, and then I played there for six months.  I had been leading for five months, 500 people and final stage, I just gave up and I flew back to America and I did qualifying.  And so here I am playing on the LPGA. 


Q.  Why did you pick Australia for the place to train at and learn English? 

GLORIA PARK:   My dad went to Australia before we moved for a holiday, and he saw that it would be good place to play golf; so we moved there. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT