SYBASE CLASSIC
May 22, 2005
Gloria Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL LAMP:  We have Gloria Park here in the interview room.  Gloria, very solid round today, just finished one shot back.  We'll start off with your score card.

Birdie on No. 2 to get started.
GLORIA PARK:  I had 139 yards to the pin, hit 8 iron, to one foot away.  I made birdie.
JOEL LAMP:  Bogey on 7.
GLORIA PARK:  I had 220 to the pin.  Hit my 3 wood.  And I just kind of hit a cut shot and I was in the rough and I made a really good chip shot and I missed a three footer.
JOEL LAMP:  Bogey on 8.
GLORIA PARK:  8, I hit my tee shot, a 3 wood down the right side into the rough again.  And I hit a really thin shot, stayed in the rough again and I put it in a bunker, and then I made bogey, up and down from there.  I had a 15 footer.
JOEL LAMP:  Bogey on 11.
GLORIA PARK:  11, I was just off the fairway on the right side and then I hit it out from the rough.  I have about 143 yards.  I hit a 6 iron from the rough and it came low and thin and just short of the green and then I couldn't make it up and down.  I hit an okay chip shot, but I missed another three footer.
JOEL LAMP:  But you birdie 13.
GLORIA PARK:  I had 139 yards to the pin.  I had a gripped 7 iron.  I hit it pin high.  I was about 12 feet.
JOEL LAMP:  Bogey on 14.
GLORIA PARK:  14, I hit my driver, hit the ground first, hit behind the golf ball.  I was on the left side of the rough.  It was really, really heavy and deep.  I tried to hit a runner shot with my rescue and it came out a little short and I couldn't make up and down from there.
JOEL LAMP:  But came right back with a birdie at 15.
GLORIA PARK:  15, hit driver, it wasn't good, but it was an okay shot on the right side of the fairway.  And I hit 3 wood just short of the green, hit a 9 iron, chipping, and then made a five footer for birdie.
JOEL LAMP:  Birdie on 17 to tie for the lead.
GLORIA PARK:   I hit a good driver, and then I have 125 yards to the pin and had a punched 8 iron to the pin.  Made a three footer.
JOEL LAMP:  You got tied for the lead there at 17.  Had a chance on 18.  Talk a little bit about your thoughts of coming close to winning the tournament again.
GLORIA PARK:   Well, it was a really great week, first of all.  Today I think I played really good for the conditions and the rough and stuff like that, but I wasn't happy with the putt I missed on 7 and 11, which is the short ones.  Other than that, everything was good.
JOEL LAMP:  We'll take questions.
Q.  You needed a birdie on 18 and shot in from the rough.  I don't know, did your wrist make that shot, that chip shot in more difficult?
GLORIA PARK:   At the end of the day, just the rain comes and the rough gets really, really heavy.  The lie was pretty    the grass was against me and then I knew it was hard, but I just tried.  I was kind of lucky it bounced onto the green, actually.  I thought it was going to be way short. I tried it.  I almost thought I would make the birdie putt, but it was a little to the right.
Q.  Again, was that just about the same shot you faced yesterday on 18, from the rough there?
GLORIA PARK:  Yes, kind of, so I knew it was going to be a tough one.
Q.  And how long was that putt on 18?
GLORIA PARK:  There was about 27 to 30.
Q.  Today history was made, an 18 year old won an LPGA event.  Obviously you saw Paula Creamer a lot this week.  I'm curious what you thought of her game and what impressions did you have?  What will you take away from her game this week?

A.
She is a really good player and she's    she plays very steady.  I was kind of a little    the putt I missed, the little ones this week, a couple of them, is all I can say.

Other than that, I played really good myself, with my wrist and everything, and then I obviously made a couple of shots from the fairways and stuff like that.  I'm pretty happy with it.  I wish I can make those putts, but I'm pretty happy with this.
Q.  How are you feeling physically and everything?  Are you playing next week?
GLORIA PARK:  I'm going to Vegas.  I'm going home for a week and going back to the Atlantic City.
Q.  How are you feeling?
GLORIA PARK:  Okay, I just need a little rest.  I'm going to see the doctor for my wrist.  Other than that, everything is good.
JOEL LAMP:  Thanks a lot, Gloria.  Have a good week off.
GLORIA PARK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT