SYBASE CLASSIC
May 21, 2005
Gloria Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL LAMP:  We have Gloria Park here in the interview room.  5  under par for the tournament and even par round of 71 today.  Let's start off with your score card.  Double bogey at No. 4.
GLORIA PARK: I hit my 3 wood from the tee and I had to kind of try to hit a high shot and it went way too far right into the bunker.  And I hit it fat from the bunker into the rough and I couldn't make it up and down so I made a double.
JOEL LAMP:  But you followed that up by holing out of the fairway on 6.
GLORIA PARK:  I just missed the green.  I was in the first cut.  I had 89 yards to the pin and I have a pitching wedge control shot.
JOEL LAMP:  And you continued rolling from there with birdies on 10 and 11.
GLORIA PARK:  I had 137 yards from the second shot.  I tried to hit a 7 iron and kind of hit it fat and ended up pin high and made a birdie there.
JOEL LAMP:  How far was the putt there?
GLORIA PARK: I was thinking it was like about 15.
JOEL LAMP:  And then the birdie on 11.
GLORIA PARK:  I had 117 yards to the pin, I hit a 9 iron a little right of the flag, almost pin high.  About 10.
JOEL LAMP:  Bogey on 14.
GLORIA PARK:  14, I hit my driver on the right side of the fairway.  I tried to get on the green.  I used my 8 iron and then I was on the green and I three putted.
JOEL LAMP:  How far was your first putt?
GLORIA PARK: It was a little more than 20.
JOEL LAMP:  Bogey on 15.
GLORIA PARK:  I hit my driver on the right side.  I was in the first cut, tried to hit it a fade to the green and then it went straight to the right, hit the tree and ended up in the rough.  I hit my third shot    I had 85 yards to the pin.  It was really heavy rough and I put it in the bunker and couldn't make it up and down there.
JOEL LAMP:  I know we talked a minute before that  you're disappointed with your round today.  You're one shot out of the lead going into the final round.  Talk about your thoughts now with 18 holes to go and being one shot out of the lead.
GLORIA PARK: It was a very tough day.  There's not many birdies out there today.  That's why I was a little disappointed about today.  I had an eagle and then two great birdies, and then I had a mistake on 14 and 15.  I made bogey on those holes, especially the par 5, so that was my mistake for the day.  Other than that, I'm pretty happy with the way I played the other holes.
JOEL LAMP:  Questions?
Q.  On 15 you made bogey.  Did you feel like you left the field back in the tournament?
GLORIA PARK:  Well, I'm only one shot behind.  I don't know who is going to be hot tomorrow.  It all depends again because of the greens getting difficult.  The greens are kind of getting hard, and then speed wise they're getting faster because of the nice weather we've had.  So still whoever makes putts more than any other is going to be the winner.
Q.  You were in the lead heading into the final round before.  Is there an advantage going into the last round ahead?
GLORIA PARK:  Not really.  Just when I was winning this tournament before, I was playing with Annika Sorenstam and leading with her.  It's not really better.  I have to focus on my game and try to be best at my game.
Q.  You talked about problems with your hand and you haven't been going to the range that much.  You have tape on it today.  Talk about how your hand feels, and obviously it's not bothering you too bad when you're out there.
GLORIA PARK:  When I'm hitting my driver from the fairway it's okay.  Sometimes it depends    last hole I was in the rough and I had 54 yards to the pin, and because of my hand I can't go aggressively so I hit it short and fat, and luckily it bounced up from the rough and off the green.  Once again, if I just try to keep my driver in the fairway, it might be helping a lot tomorrow.
Q.  (No microphone.)
GLORIA PARK:  Tendonitis.  I have this from the end of last year.  I've been seeing a doctor and it's not really going away.  It comes and goes.
Q.  Do you think your experience winning here in 2002 is an advantage going into tomorrow?
GLORIA PARK:  I would say so a little bit, because I know a couple holes where the pin is going to be tricky, and then I haven't seen those pins yet, so it's going to be like maybe tomorrow the pin is going to be a couple of holes that way.  I keep thinking in a positive way because I know this golf course and I have a good memory, good experience about this golf course.
Q.  Knowing how you handled Sunday and it was for the title, knowing that you handled that kind of pressure well, is that also part of the advantage?
GLORIA PARK:  Yes, I think so, because I don't know if tomorrow is going to be a threesome or twosome.  It's also depending who you're playing.  If you're playing a twosome it's very difficult to keep looking at the score boards and checking because the scores are so close.  I'm going to just try every hole, every shot.
JOEL LAMP:  We are going to be playing twosomes tomorrow.
Q.  Thinking back to that tournament, winning here, because the player you held off or passed, I guess, was Annika Sorenstam how much of a confidence builder was that for you in your career, knowing you could play against the best player in the world like that and play well?
GLORIA PARK:  I was having trouble with my putting stroke.  I wasn't really thinking of playing with Annika Sorenstam, I was so frustrated about my putting stroke.  I was worried about what my dad was saying, so I was concentrating more on my putting.  And then on the front nine, I shot 4 under on the front nine, something like that.  I had four or five shots, so it didn't really affect me with playing somebody else.

Once again, every time I'm playing golf I just try to concentrate on my game because my hand is not very good.  If somebody makes a birdie, it doesn't make any difference if I'm looking or comparing it with somebody else.
Q.  Up here in the Northeast metropolitan area it's spring and the grass is lusher now than the middle of July.  You've played the course in both instances.  What's the course like out there than what it is like in July?  Can you tell a difference and do you have a preference?
GLORIA PARK:  Well, when we played in the summer, the fairway and the rough was easier, I would say.  Because it's now spring, everything is growing, and the grass is tight poa annua.  Also the grass type, it's very difficult to    hitting from the fairway    like tight lies.  If I'm hitting a bad shot, it's not really, it's kind of bad.  So with my hand, I try to hit a shot and sometimes it's not really working because the grass is really hard and especially the rough is really heavy.  And the greens are very nice.  Actually, I like the green more this time of the year than playing in the summer.  It's good and bad.
JOEL LAMP:  Thanks a lot, Gloria.  Good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT