SYBASE CLASSIC
May 20, 2005
Gloria Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOEL LAMP:  We've got co leader Gloria Park here in the interview room, 1 under par 70 today, 5 under par for the tournament.

Let's start off with your score card.  You started on the back nine, but with a birdie on 11.
GLORIA PARK:  I had a birdie on 11.  I had 115 to the pin and I hit a great 9 iron.
JOEL LAMP:  Bogey on 13.
GLORIA PARK:  I was just off the green on the left side, like a little bit further than pin high and I 3 putted from the edge.
JOEL LAMP:  But came back with a birdie on 15.
GLORIA PARK:  I hit driver and then hit 3 iron to the green, and then have about a 20 foot eagle putt and I just missed it for birdie.
JOEL LAMP:  Birdie on 16.
GLORIA PARK:  16, I have my 6 iron in my hand and I hit a really thin shot into the bunker and somehow I made it from the bunker.  I don't know how, I was so low, I could not see what happened.  Hit the pin and just went in from there.
JOEL LAMP:  Bogey on 17.
GLORIA PARK:  17, I hit a really, really poor tee shot in the rough and then tried to hit a 4 iron a little thin into the bunker.  It was like a 40 yard bunker shot.  So just two putts for bogey.
JOEL LAMP:  On the front side, your back side, birdie on No. 2.
GLORIA PARK:  I hit 8 iron from the tee and then that was about a 4  or 5 footer.
JOEL LAMP:  Bogey on 3.
GLORIA PARK:  3, I hit 3 wood and then 3 iron and then tried to hit a little pitching wedge, and then I hit the tree and then over the green and just could not make up and down from there.
JOEL LAMP:  Birdie on 5.
GLORIA PARK:  5, I hit driver and I hit 7 iron.  I have about almost 25 to 30 feet.  Made a birdie there.
JOEL LAMP:  And you closed it out on 9 in style there with a birdie.
GLORIA PARK:  I hit driver and then hit a grip 8 iron, and I think it looked like it almost went in or something.  The crowd was kind of getting loud.
JOEL LAMP:  1 under par 70, combined with your 4 under par yesterday, you're tied for the lead.  Especially with the tough conditions this morning, talk about being tied for the lead at the midway point through the tournament.
GLORIA PARK:  Well, I had tendonitis in my wrist and I withdraw last week.  My mom wanted me to go, because I'm taking a week off next week, and my mom wanted me to go home instead of playing here.  But because I like this golf course and just I have a good memory here, so I came here.

I haven't been to the driving range the last couple of days before I played the tournament.  I hit maybe ten golf balls at the driving range on Tuesday and Wednesday and tried to    I know it's going to be tough playing with this hand, and I practiced putting and chipping and stuff like that.

So today, I hit some good shots, made some birdies, but I also made some good up and downs, too, and the putting kind of helped, too.  So it kind of    it's not really great, but I'm pretty happy with where I am right now.
Q.  Some of us remember your win in 2002, your dad was here; we remember you guys had a little issue about your putting stroke and you cried during that week.  How does your life differ now?  How have you matured?  I know your dad is back home in Korea, but how have you matured from three years ago when you won here?
GLORIA PARK:  Well, older.  Maybe I think better for sure.  I have been playing a lot of golf, especially tournaments, and have good experience in traveling a lot.  So that makes a lot of difference than where I was a couple years ago.  So yeah, just a little different.
Q.  Did the cold weather make it even harder on the wrist?
GLORIA PARK:  Yes.  Maybe because my left hand has been hurting the last couple of weeks and I tried to maybe overuse the right hand more; and my right hand, my wrist is getting a little stiff.  I have to go to trailer after this.  Hopefully it can hang in for two more days.
Q.  So how do you explain a round like this?
GLORIA PARK:  Well, because of the cold weather and then because I played in the morning when I missed the fairway in the rough, it's very, very difficult to hit wet grass in the long, tall rough; that makes it much harder than playing in the fairways.
Q.  I mean, how do you explain playing so well with a bad wrist and the cold weather and everything else going against you?
GLORIA PARK:  Well, I made a bunker shot for birdie and then I 2 putted for birdie.  Then I hit a couple of shots really, really close.

So I have six birdies today, which is just had a couple really close, or I made it somewhere like difficult to make a par, but just kind of lucky day, too.  I can explain maybe because yesterday, I have eagle 3, my third shot straight into the hole.  Maybe just my lucky week, I would say.
Q.  Like everything went your way today?
GLORIA PARK:  Yeah, like it's a little bit frustrating when you miss the fairways, and I know because of my wrist it's very difficult hitting the shots.  But I have some good up and downs.  Actually, I have a chance to make some pars and stuff.  So I'm going to try to hit more fairways tomorrow to see what I can do.
Q.  Are you doing any therapy for the wrist?
GLORIA PARK:  I've been to the trailer, actually, and then every night for a few times.  I'm seeing a doctor, it started end of last year and they have been pretty good early this year and they came back again.  So I've got to go see the doctor maybe Monday or Tuesday.
Q.  How is your putting stroke better than it was three years ago?  You won here three years ago, but talking to your caddie, he says that was almost like a catalyst for to you really focus on your putting stroke.  How is your putting stroke better than it was?
GLORIA PARK:  It's very hard to explain it because I didn't feel like I was putting bad three years ago.  My dad was kind of picky about my putting.  I feel pretty good about my putting stroke, maybe I spend more time on the putting range and chipping green and stuff like that.  Hopefully I can make some putts tomorrow and Sunday.
Q.  The speed of the greens here, are they tricky at all?  Is reading the speed of the greens the most difficult thing about these greens here?
GLORIA PARK:  I think it is much harder than before when we play in the summer actually.  When I played in the practice round, pin was in a tricky spot when I played the practice round.  But I thought the score would be very low, like if I shoot even par, I would be very happy and I can see already like cut line is very low.
JOEL LAMP:  Thanks a lot, Gloria.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT