BMO FINANCIAL GROUP CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
July 9, 2004
Gloria Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Gloria, thanks for coming in and joining us.  7 under for the tournament now, 2 shots off the lead.  Playing really well.  What was working for you out there today?
GLORIA PARK:  Well, I was playing really great yesterday.  I had another problem with my thumb and I didn't feel like I could play yesterday and I couldn't decide to play or not, and I was kind of wandering around and then I decided to play, because of the Evian thing.

I made some putts yesterday and it was in tough conditions, same as today, it was rainy and I didn't really want to pull out yesterday, and I made some birdies on the front nine and I feel like maybe this is a different way to play golf, so I just kept playing.  And today the same thing, I didn't feel great, just tried to go hole by hole, every shot, every putt, and then it worked out pretty good today.
Q.  Gloria, what did you do to your thumb?  Jam it?
GLORIA PARK:  No, I've been playing 11 weeks in a row, this is 11, so I think playing too much and then just kind of worn out.
Q.  Maybe you should be worn out more often, the way you're playing.
GLORIA PARK:  I had the same problem last year.  When I take a rest, couple days' rest, it should be okay.  I'm just hoping it's okay the next 2 days.  And then maybe next week, it's only a 3 day tournament, so I'll just take it easy on the practice and stuff.
Q.  It's pretty rewarding having struggled yesterday and playing so well today?
GLORIA PARK:  I didn't have many mistakes.  This golf course has a wide fairway on a couple of holes, so I tried to keep it in the fairway first and then keep it on the green and then try to make some putts.  And yesterday I had 30 putts, but I had some great putts yesterday, and the same as today.  Golf, you never know what's happening and if you feel great, maybe you're not winning the tournament, but it's my day maybe.
Q.  Have you found with the rain in the last couple of days you've been able to shoot more at the pin the last couple of days?
GLORIA PARK:  Well, because this golf course is new to everybody and I'm not sure how this golf course is playing, so it's very hard to say.  It all depends    I think it's good to the long hitters, this golf course, definitely, and if you hit many fairways and try to hit it to the right side of the pin to make birdie, that's the key.
Q.  As good as you're playing, how difficult is it seeing how much better Meg Mallon is playing, and how difficult do you think it might be to catch her, with how well she's playing?
GLORIA PARK:  Well, she's a great player, and then I played with her 2 weeks ago, right before she won the U.S. Open, and I think she's been playing really good lately.  But at this point I don't know, maybe it's me, but I like to be a little behind from the leader and then just catching up and I don't have to worry about somebody following me.
Q.  You haven't been able to see her play, but when you look up and see the leaderboard and she was down and then all of a sudden she's back again, does that discourage you, because Meg has been on this unbelievable roll since the U.S. Open.  Do you think it's going to be tough to catch Meg?
GLORIA PARK:  Well...
Q.  How much of a factor is the wind on this course?
GLORIA PARK:  When I got here on Monday morning, it was very windy.  Like on the practice putt, like putting green, I couldn't really putt it.  It wasn't as windy as Monday, the last couple of days.  When it gets windy, it's going to be difficult, because of water also and then the bunkers, so it all depends what conditions you are playing in.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Let's go over your score card, your birdies and bogeys.
GLORIA PARK:  I made a birdie on hole No. 1.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Tell us what club you hit in and how far the putt was.
GLORIA PARK:  I hit driver, 3 wood, a bad 3 wood, and my 8 iron was like 133 yards to the hole, and then I was like 10 feet away and made birdie.

I made a bogey on No. 3.  I missed the green on the right side.
PAUL ROVNAK:  What club did you hit off the tee?
GLORIA PARK:  4 iron.

Hole 6, hit driver into the left side rough and tried to hit a low shot with a 3 wood and then just off the green and I made a good up and down and I made I birdie there, another 8 feet.

Hole No. 11, I made a birdie.  Driver, 3 wood, and then 2 putted.
PAUL ROVNAK:  From how far?
GLORIA PARK:  It was like 25 feet.

Then hole No. 12, hit driver    I don't remember.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Do you remember what club you hit in?
GLORIA PARK:  No.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Do you remember how far the putt was?
GLORIA PARK:  Yes, it was like 8, 9 feet.
PAUL ROVNAK:  And then the bogey on 16.
GLORIA PARK:  16, I hit my driver to the left side of the rough and then hit a 7 iron and then couldn't make it up and down.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT