BANK OF MONTREAL CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN
August 16, 2002
Gloria Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAURA NEAL: Gloria, thanks for coming in.  I know you said it was a boring round.  She had all pars and then finished with a birdie on nine.  Maybe just go over that and tell us about your round a little bit.

GLORIA PARK:  Okay.  Today I just had 17 pars and then one birdie on hole number nine.  And I hit my driver and I hit my 5-wood, tried to hit the right side of the bunker and kind of run it up to the green.  So I hit a really bad shot.  And then I ended up short of the bunker.  And I was right next to the -- someone hit it there before and I hit it there with my pitching wedge to like 40 yard shot and then kind of bump and run shot and then it hit the pin and then I made a birdie there.  And today I hit a 27 putts.  So yesterday I didn't hit very good shots today but I made a really good up-and-downs today.  And I missed about three, four birdie chances today early in the round.  And then couple in the back nine.  So that's all about it. 

LAURA NEAL:  Considering the winds and the fact you haven't been feeling well you must be pretty pleased with where you stand right now.

GLORIA PARK:  Yeah, just today after the hole number probably 7 or 8 it started being really windy.  It the wind started picking up and then was really strong.  And then yesterday I almost pulled out the tournament because I had a really bad cold and sinus.  And I just couldn't walk the fairway.  I couldn't really.  I kind of really almost think about pulling out and I really don't want to play.  But once I started playing, I just feel like I just got to keep it going and then I made couple putts there yesterday and then couple good shots and a couple poor shots yesterday too, but I made some pretty good shots yesterday.  So also today I made a really good up-and-down.  So I like on long par-4s and stuff so I'm really pleased with where I stand. 
LAURA NEAL:  Questions?  Any questions for Gloria?  I'm shocked.  Okay.  Thank you. 

GLORIA PARK:  All right.  Thanks. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT