SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2012
Renee Ladner
Valencia McFarland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Ole Miss coach Renee Ladner and Valencia McFarland. 
Coach, if you could start with some opening comments. 
COACH LADNER:   I understand why Arkansas is the hottest team in the league.   They came out ready to play.   They seemed to be on a mission.   They're just getting a little bit better with each game.   Played with a lot of confidence and caused us a lot of problems early on. 
I tip my hat to Arkansas, they did an outstanding job.   Put us in a hole early and we never could get out of it. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   Coach, you have a couple of positives from tonight.   You out‑rebounded Arkansas.   You forced them into 15 turnovers.   How do you take those positives and build off them?
COACH LADNER:   All year long we've done some really good things.   Tonight we missed a lot of shots.   We had a lot of opportunities to rebound the basketball. 
The thing I love the most about this basketball team is they don't ever quit.   They fight and they fight some more.   We did cause them to make a lot of turnovers. 
What it does is it allows us to understand that being as young as we are, we can press, we can turn people over.   We just have to be able to finish our shots.   We had a lot of turnovers.   I'm not sure how many of those we converted into points. 
Nine underclassmen on the floor.   I started four freshmen and a sophomore sitting beside me.   The future is extremely bright.   If they can learn to move off that, they're going to be very strong in the league. 

Q.   Talk about what Valencia has meant to you and how you can build off her for the future. 
COACH LADNER:   I tell everybody all the time that I have the best open‑court point guard in the conference.   Valencia is talented.   She sees the floor so well.   A lot of times our young kids are not ready to play with her. 
What can she not do?   She can take you off the dribble.   She can shoot the three.   Probably her biggest fault is she's unselfish.   I would like her to take 20 shots a game, she wants to take three.   When she doesn't take enough shots, we struggle to score. 
For her next year, she's got to learn to shoot the ball a lot more.   She's got to make the younger kids step up and understand their role.   I think she's game.   I think she can do that.   She's just very talented, and I was very fortunate to be able to coach her the past two years. 

Q.   Valencia, how have you seen your game progress this year?   How have you grown throughout the season? 
VALENCIA McFARLAND:   Last year they played me for the three‑point shot.   Coming into this season, I had to make my three‑point shot a threat, so that's what I worked on. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, ladies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT