SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2008
Shantell Black
Danetra Forrest
Renee Ladner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  LSU was clearly the better team today.  Yesterday I was asked about the stats sheet.  Well, obviously the stats held true today. 
 COACH LADNER:  Yesterday State beat me in a lot of stats, and I still had the one that counted was the W.  Today LSU dominated us in every aspect of the game.  I think LSU is maybe one of the best teams in the country, maybe the best defensive team, I know that we've faced all year.  And they caused havoc on our team all day, so hats off to LSU.  They were well prepared, they looked like a championship team and we were just not at our best. 

 Q.  18:12, you fouled out of the game.  Do you feel like -- what didn't go well for you there? 
 DANETRA FORREST:  I felt like we did have a great job right there to get her out of the game, but what did happen was obvious.  They put the hammer to our mix and killed us in every set. 

 Q.  Can you both talk about LSU's defense, what they do, what makes them so tough? 
 SHANTELL BLACK:  They don't let you go to where you want to go.  They don't let you take the shots you want to take.  They keep you up the middle.  They're smart defensively. 
 DANETRA FORREST:  They're very big.  We're a small team, so when you have a big team you have to try to bring your A game and try to go around them, but they are very quick and athletic, so that's why they are the best defensive team that we face. 

 Q.  Shantell, did they look any better than the last time you all played them? 
 SHANTELL BLACK:  I don't think they looked any better, I just think we looked a lot worse.  We weren't as aggressive.  We didn't come out with the same mentality as before.  We played them a lot better the first time.  Our effort on the boards was pretty low this game, but I think we were the ones that played bad today. 

 Q.  Danetra, you looked pretty down.  How tough is it?  You talked about wanting to extend your career.  What are the emotions like when it came to an end? 
 DANETRA FORREST:  My emotions were I just got killed.  You seen the score, so there isn't a good emotion that I could feel right now. 

 Q.  What were some of your thoughts when it was -- 
 COACH LADNER:  We had an opportunity.  I thought we were in good shape.  I thought our kids had done a good job defensively guarding and even getting some turnovers and getting Sylvia to get over the back and I thought we'd take advantage of that and unfortunately the ball would not go in the basket and then it rolled, and unfortunately there was nothing we could do to stop it. 

 Q.  You shuffled the starting lineup a little bit today.  What were your thoughts? 
 COACH LADNER:  Well, Bianca has had three huge games for us, and we thought we needed to start offensively and get a little punch out of the gates.  Also it gave us a little more size, and then we had just worked our two guards to death, and I thought that Shantell -- it would give Shantell and Kayla Melson a little break going in and out and then we could come back and pop them in the mouth if there was such a thing that could happen.  But mostly we did it because we needed to score.  We struggled getting open, number one, the physicality of the game, and then number two, getting an open look.  And that made us very tentative. 

 Q.  What makes LSU so good defensively? 
 COACH LADNER:  Well, they're very physical, they're very quick around the perimeter, and if you get around the first line of defense there's a tree standing in the middle of the lane and the branches go from one side of the court to the other.  You're not looking at the rim, you're looking at Sylvia, and she is the best defensive player to me in the country, and she alters everything you're trying to do.  Even when we would get around and get a chance to get in a two on one, she would swat it down and make us look at her versus the backboard or the rim. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT