U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2015
Alli Weaver
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. When did you find out you were going to play?ALLI WEAVER: Well, I had somewhat of an idea last night, but they weren't sure if it was going to come together.  I officially found out probably around 5:30 this morning.Q. Were you excited?ALLI WEAVER: Yes.Q. Did you sleep much?ALLI WEAVER: Yeah, just enough.Q. How many times have you played this golf course?ALLI WEAVER: I couldn't tell you.  A lot.Q. Have you ever seen it set up like this?ALLI WEAVER: No, no.  I played a lot of different tees that I haven't been on, so that was interesting.  It makes for a long hole.  That was neat.Q. What was your best hole today?ALLI WEAVER: I don't know.  I actually hit the ball pretty well today.  Probably maybe 10 or 11.  I would say 11 because I had a really good chip shot on 11.Q. What was it like walking around with the crowds around you?  Describe what that experience was like for you.ALLI WEAVER: It definitely never got easier, I can tell you that.  My nerves never really let down.  It was really cool to see the members out here.  It just shows how much interest they have in me playing.  So it was neat to see that.Q. Did you have some following?  Were there members following you around?ALLI WEAVER: Yeah, yeah.Q. You've played this course a lot.  You played the Amateur here last year.  How different was this experience?ALLI WEAVER: Last year, at the Amateur, there definitely wasn't this big of a crowd.  I said a couple of times the rough is really thick.  It was fun to hit out of, but I tried to avoid it the rest of the day.  The bunkers, I think, are different as well.  Overall, it was a great experience.Q. How were the greens rolling today?ALLI WEAVER: Quick.  I have been watching it the past couple of days.  They seem a lot faster today than they were the last couple of days.Q. The last time I saw you, we were doing a video on how you would play some of these holes.  Did you play them the way you said you would have?ALLI WEAVER: For the most part, yeah.  I really only had two or three holes out there where I did get myself in quite a bit of trouble.  Other than that, I think I played pretty well.Q. Do you normally work in the clubhouse?ALLI WEAVER: I do.Q. What are your responsibilities?ALLI WEAVER: Really, we just kind of help out wherever and sell clothes.Q. How long have you worked here?ALLI WEAVER: About a year.  Well, I guess I started this past summer.  April.Q. Where did you come here from?ALLI WEAVER: I worked at Overlook before this.Q. Will you play tomorrow?ALLI WEAVER: I don't know.  She said something that I would, but I'm not 100 percent sure.  I've got to go through the boss first.Q. What did you shoot today?ALLI WEAVER: Someone said an 82.Q. (Inaudible.)ALLI WEAVER: I think I had a triple and a double.  So ignoring that, I played well.  It was fun.  I didn't really care what I shot today, honestly.  I was just trying to get the ball in the fairway off the tee.Q. If you get the opportunity to play tomorrow is there anything specific you would do differently, a different approach?ALLI WEAVER: There was a couple of shots that I kind of tried to go for it a little more than I probably should have, so I would probably play more conservatively on those few holes.Q. Did your local knowledge help you out a lot?ALLI WEAVER: It definitely helped out a lot.Q. Did your partner ask you for any advice?ALLI WEAVER: No.  It probably helped her out just to be able to see some shots in the greens and see how the putts were rolling.Q. Did it help you to know where to hit the ball on the greens?  A lot of people talk about the fact that you have got to miss the ball on the green in the right place?ALLI WEAVER: That is true, you do.  It definitely helps knowing the golf course


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT