SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 11, 2013
Michelle Koh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   In your round, were you expecting much?   
MICHELLE KOH:   It was more like I went out there with the mindset of going out there to enjoy myself and follow my game plan and strategy that I came out with.   I think I executed the game plan very well, so I think it rewarded me.  
   
 Q.   What was your game plan?   
MICHELLE KOH:   The game plan was positioning on the golf course, where to place the ball, how to give myself the best opportunity just to make birdies.   Mindset‑wise it was more going out there staying calm, staying focused and just following my game plan.  
   
 Q.   Are you pleased with your score?   
MICHELLE KOH:   Yes, yes, definitely, yeah.   I think I played well.   I hit the ball pretty solid.   Putted it well toward the end of the round, so I think my game is good, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What about tomorrow?   
MICHELLE KOH:   Tomorrow will be the same, same strategy.   I'll be going out there and following the same game plan.   Going out there to enjoy and stay calm and focused.  
   
 Q.   So this year you're going to just try and relax?   
MICHELLE KOH:   Yeah, yeah.  
   
 Q.   How did you do last year?   
MICHELLE KOH:   I didn't play last year.  
   
 Q.   Is this your first time here?   
MICHELLE KOH:   Yes, my first time.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible) it's a bit cooler today.   Do you think that helped with your game?   
MICHELLE KOH:   I think cooler maybe.   Well, the sun was not out all day, but definitely it was very, very humid.   I was sweating like no other today.   But, yeah, I think the fact that there was not much wind today, so the shots were more predictable, and I guess it did help me a little bit.  
   
 Q.   First time playing this course?   
MICHELLE KOH:   I played the course a couple of times.   I was actually in the Sime Darby program just this past month.   For a couple weeks I was here, so I got to play the course quite a few times.  
   
 Q.   You won the Malaysian Junior Open before?   
MICHELLE KOH:   The Junior Open, yeah, yeah, that was quite a while back, yeah.  
   
 Q.   What is your next target?   
MICHELLE KOH:   Well, I'd like to turn pro, play professionally in the near future, but I'll wait to see how things go, how I'm playing.   Put everything together and see what happens next.  
   
 Q.   What is your timeframe to turn pro?   In the near future?   
MICHELLE KOH:   I'm looking to do it next year.   But like I say, it still depends on how my game is doing and how things fall in place.   We'll see.  
   
 Q.   So what is your expectation coming into this tournament?   Is there some finish you want to achieve?   
MICHELLE KOH:   No, not really, nothing of that sort.   I'm just going to go out there and play shot by shot, try to bring in a decent score and just go out there and enjoy myself.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT