SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 12, 2014
Michelle Koh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Finished with a 66.   
MICHELLE KOH:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Must be very proud of yourself.   
MICHELLE KOH:   I am.   Unfortunately I had to spoil it by 3‑putting the last hole.   
Anyway, it was really fun golf.   Really fun.   I gave myself a lot of opportunities today; made a lot of putts.  
Definitely still missed a few out there today, but definitely was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   What was the difference today compared to yesterday?   
MICHELLE KOH:   I think today I was very much more focused.   I could narrow in my focus a lot better and feel a lot better, so thus the putts and the good hits.   
   
 Q.   If you look overall, how would you rate your performance this week?   
MICHELLE KOH:   I would rate my‑‑ well, on a scale 1 to 10, probably give myself a 7.5.   There were a lot of things I think I could have done better, like I should have known not to get on the bogey.  
But definitely it's a great experience and it was a good lesson.   Definitely I have learned a lot from this week.   I've learned that golf is fun if you let it be fun.   If you want to make it tough for yourself, then it'll be a tough sport.  
   
 Q.   Was there a highlight out there for you today?   
MICHELLE KOH:   Yeah.   There was one point where I kept hitting pins and I made three birdies in a row on the back‑ my back nine, which was the front nine.  
Then on the front nine I hit a lot more pins but didn't make as many birdies.  
So I highlight I guess was the three birdies, especially the birdie on the 3rd hole.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday was not the best day for you.   
MICHELLE KOH:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Did that in any way motivate you to come out today or was it letting go?  
MICHELLE KOH:   Yeah, yeah, definitely.   You know, I think I really didn't deserve the79 ‑‑ well, not didn't deserve, but I think that I should've have done ‑‑ like that score didn't reflect how I was feeling and how I was playing.   
I felt like I have to go out there and do my best.   I got to show that I can actually do this.  
   
 Q.   As an amateur you finished 10‑over last year; finished 2‑over this year.   You must see a lot of improvement in your game and as a person.   You believe yourself now as a professional?   
MICHELLE KOH:   Yes, I think so.   I can feel and I do see the difference just basing off the scores.   But I've just started working technically, and I think I look for better and bigger improvements in the future.  
   
 Q.   How do plan to close out your year?   Few more tournaments?   
MICHELLE KOH:   Uh‑huh.   I have another two more that I'm looking forward to.   One will be Sanya.   That's the one that's co‑sanctioned with the LET.   And also the Indian Open, which is also co‑sanctioned with the LET, the European Tour.   So I hope to do well in those.   
   
 Q.   What's your takeaway from the entire LPGA tournament?  
MICHELLE KOH:   Takeaway?   I'm not sure I understand that question.   
   
 Q.   What lessons, improvement, something you learned this week, this tournament, this year, about playing this tournament?  
MICHELLE KOH:   I think I still got to learn how to be more patient.   Few times out there today I got a little excited so I missed a few putts.  
So definitely still got to work on my patience and definitely swing, technicals and all that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT