SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 10, 2014
Michelle Koh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Bounced back pretty well after that three bogeys. 
MICHELLE KOH:   Yeah, I don't know what happened.   I think‑‑ I don't know.   On 16 I got in a little bit of trouble on the drive.   Then I sort of went from one trouble to another trouble. 
I hit two good shots to get it close to the pin, but I didn't many to convert the putt.   I think I got a little bit upset with that and sort of just rushed through everything.
After the three bogeys I say, Oh, my gosh.   Look where you are.   You got to start getting your head back together and forget about it and move on. 
Then sure enough, next hole I hit another birdie, and that kind of got me rolling on the back nine.

Q.   Happy with 17?
MICHELLE KOH:   Yes.   Definitely it always could have been better, could be better.   But, yeah, I'm very happy how I finished up. 
Yeah.

Q.   You said you had to get more birdies today. 
MICHELLE KOH:   Yes.

Q.   You went out with that mentality?
MICHELLE KOH:   Uh‑huh. 

Q.   What did you do right then?
MICHELLE KOH:   I did.   I think I did.   I think probably at least two or three more birdies today, so I'm happy with that.
But definitely could have been better.   I hit it a lot better today.   Putted it better, too. 
Tomorrow just got to make the putts that matters. 

Q.   Are you in a stage where you're starting to enjoy all this?
MICHELLE KOH:   Yes, I am.   I still have a smile on my face.   I lost it for a while there after I had the three bogeys.   I decided, You know what?   Golf is too much fun for me to turn it into a boring game.   I told myself, Go out there and have fun.   Birdies will come.   Put a bigger smile on your face.

Q.   When we see you you are always kind of very positive. 
MICHELLE KOH:   Yeah.

Q.   Is that something you tell yourself to keep positive and not so down if you have a bad round? 
MICHELLE KOH:   Um, I think that's partly‑‑ thankfully I think that's partly ingrained in me already.   I tend to look at the bright side of things. 
I think that helps.   Nobody plans to go out and play horrible.   You go out there, and if things don't work out your way, there must be something that didn't go your way. 
You know you got to sit back, relax, figure out what happened play better the next day.

Q.   How is your shoulder?
MICHELLE KOH:   It's better.   My mom fed me a lot of (indiscernible) last night, so it's gotten better.

Q.   Even par for the tournament. 
MICHELLE KOH:   Yes.

Q.   How does that set up the next two days?
MICHELLE KOH:   I think things are looking pretty good.   Game is looking very positive at the moment.   Like say, I was going through some technical changes and things like that, so being able to play well, I'm happy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT