SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 13, 2013
Michelle Koh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   If you can just tell us a little bit about your game today.   
MICHELLE KOH:   I enjoyed myself a lot out there today.   The course is playing amazing, the greens are rolling great and the fairways are good, and I enjoyed every moment of it.   I struggled out there a little bit today at the beginning, but I sort of managed to pick up my rhythm and momentum sort of (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   Are you playing at (inaudible)?  
MICHELLE KOH:   So far I think (inaudible) agent has told me that I'm one of the confirmed players, so yes.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)   How satisfying was that?  
MICHELLE KOH:   That was very satisfying coming from a little bit of a sticky situation.   I was under a tree and I had a big hazard to carry to a pretty tight pin.   After hitting that shot and after seeing it land on the green, that was a big relief.   
   
 Q.   The entire experience, four days and playing with the best players in the world, what do you think you're taking back with you after the experience?   
MICHELLE KOH:   The players that I played with this past week have all been pretty different.   I played with Yani and So Yeon Ryu and Alison Walshe, and they were all very nice to me.   But one thing definitely I learned is golf, no matter who you play with, it's the game that's more important, so you really have to focus on your own game rather than focus on who you're playing with and all the other external distractions I guess if I can say that, but yeah, I've really, really learned to play my own game, focus on my own game and nothing else apart from that.  
   
 Q.   Just getting back to (inaudible), were there any great differences in terms of how you played each day?   
MICHELLE KOH:   Yes.   Yes, there were.   On the first day when I had 70, I was actually rolling the ball pretty well.   I made a couple of birdies out there, and I also made a lot of par saves, saved my pars.   But on the second nine both days, I really find it a little bit harder to sort of get the ball to the hole.   I left a lot of birdie putts out there short and just missing it by a little bit and some par putts out there.   So I think I really struggled with the greens the last three days, and I think it could have been better.   I could have putted better.   
   
 Q.   How long are you giving yourself before you think that you would be ready for the pro ranks?  
MICHELLE KOH:   Since I graduated last year, I've actually given myself a year to play amateur until the end of the year, and I'm looking to turn professional or play professionally next year.   I'm not sure exactly when I will turn pro, but it will definitely be next year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT