U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
May 16, 2019
Nanci Bowen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you think 2-over would be a good number?
NANCI BOWEN: Oh, absolutely.  Starting the day the golf course was really, really hard.  Absolutely I would take 2-over starting the day any time.
Q. What's making it so hard now?
NANCI BOWEN: Well, hitting into the greens you've got to hit the perfect yardage.  A lot times if you don't have the perfect yardage to begin with it's already difficult, and then you got to judge the wind, if it's playing up our down, really and how the greens are reacting.  They're getting harder and faster.
Q. Everybody talks about patience in a major, particularly in USGA Championships.  But patience on a golf course like this seemed to be much more important than anything, just making sure you don't get too greedy.
NANCI BOWEN: Oh, yeah.  I was aiming at trees instead of pins today.  I really was.  Actually I don't even know that I aimed at a pin today really.  If you're off just a little bit you're down off the sides of the green, so pretty much just went to the center of the greens.
Q. What was the best part of your game today?
NANCI BOWEN: You know, patience.  I just stayed in a good rhythm.  I was focused.  A little bit of everything just kind of fell into place for me.
Q. Do you play much competitively now?
NANCI BOWEN: No, not at all.
Q. How many events, this and...
NANCI BOWEN: This is about it.  Once a year I'll play this.  Back home I play with some of the Furman golf team some.  I'm around them, watching them, and stuff like that.
But, no.  Actually I've had a bad back coming into this.  I think it's more I haven't been so focused totally on playing.  Been just trying to get my body in shape.
Q. Furman's got some pretty good players.  They keep you young?
NANCI BOWEN: They do.  They do.  They're very young and they hit it very far.
Q. Your expectations were probably tempered coming in, and now you're near the top of the leaderboard.  What do you think about for tomorrow?
NANCI BOWEN: You know, it's a lot harder in the afternoon always.  Still going to just one shot at a time.  The golf course is very, very difficult and you just got to be in the right places.  I have no expectations again tomorrow.
I'm just going out and playing and just see what happens.  Just kind of stick to my game plan and play my game, not try to get caught up.  It's a great pairing with Donna and Maggie.  We go way back.  It was very comfortable.  We had a lot of fun out there.
Going to do the seam thing tomorrow.
Q. How much of a factor was the wind?
NANCI BOWEN: Well, in order to have 14 clubs I had to take out my 5-wood and that was actually a 5-wood shot.  We decided to come up short and get it up and down instead of over-shooting the greens, so that's what I ended up doing.  Got it up and down.  Just trying to play smart; best we can.
Q. Furman girls let you play with 15?
NANCI BOWEN: I don't tell them how many clubs I have.  I need more than that to play against them.  And they let me play the forward tees, so...






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT