NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v BLACKHAWKS
May 23, 2014
Willie Mitchell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
WILLIE MITCHELL:   Last year we came in and lost only a handful of games under him.   At that time we didn't believe in ourselves enough, how good we are, our capabilities.   
He came in, it was a lot of pats on the back, a lot of massaging.   I think when you win, you have success, you need some different things.   I think it's a little bit more of what everyone knows what Sutter is, and Darryl is keeping guys on their toes in the playoffs.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
WILLIE MITCHELL:   More the question should be, Can I tell when he's happy (laughter)?   
   
 Q.   You said it's less about communication, more about motivation.   How does he motivate?   
WILLIE MITCHELL:   I think he's very tactful.   I think at first, times you might take it a little bit personally.   Kind of does it with everyone on the team.   
Like I say, he'll do it where he think he can do it.   He'll lean on our captains, our veteran players, our star players at certain times.   He knows if he's leaning on those players, sometimes the young players are going to see that and say, I better get my butt in gear.   
As I said, sometimes in the moment you're not sure what he's doing.   I think sometimes if you flip it over and look through his eyes, you can see what he's trying to accomplish.   
   
 Q.   Everything is calculated?   
WILLIE MITCHELL:   Absolutely.   
   
 Q.   Does it help to know what you're up against as far as the Blackhawks will not wilt?  
WILLIE MITCHELL:   Game2 is Game2.   It's another game.   There's no carryover from it.   It's a new match that's going to bring new problems, new challenges, new positives hopefully.   
Yeah, I think most of our core group knows the team quite well.   Their core group has been together for a while.   Ours is starting to shape up like that.   Played against them a lot in the past here.   
You know what to expect.   We know how we have to play against them to have success.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
WILLIE MITCHELL:   He's a good goalie.   Good goalies just park it and move on to the next one.   
Like I said, tomorrow is going to be new challenges for us.   Do what every team tries to do in the playoffs, go to the net hard, create traffic, go after rebounds.   That's how you score for the most part.   
We've had a few games that haven't been that way, usually tight hockey games.   Protecting the hard areas is what is going to make the difference.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT