COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF FINAL: OREGON v OHIO STATE
January 10, 2015
Marcus Mariota
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   There's been a lot of talk about your offense. 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It's awesome.   It's a lot of fun.   It's like being a point guard on a basketball team.   It's fun to dink and dunk and watch those guys make plays.

Q.   Will you get into that mode, you sense it's happening and you take the game over? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   We just try to focus on finishing every drive.   We try to score as much as we can.   That's the object of the game.   You know, there's a feeling you just try to finish every drive, and sometimes it just kind of happens that way.

Q.   Your reaction to Darren's loss?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It's tough, but we'll have to get the next guy ready and get ready to play.

Q.   What does it mean to the offense to lose Darren?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I mean, he's a huge playmaker for us, but at the same time, that receiving corps has had so many players step up, and Keanon will be the leader out there, and we'll get another guy that's ready to go. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I mean, Dwayne Stanford, Keanon Lowe obviously, Byron, Charles, those guys will all be rotating in. 

Q.   How is that preparation going since you guys got back from the Rose Bowl?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It's been great.   It's awesome to go back to Eugene and be able to work there in our own facility.   It's been an awesome week of preparation.   Guys are excited, and honestly, we're just looking forward to playing the game.

Q.   This has got to be the ultimate to be here. 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Definitely.   It's awesome.   This was a team goal of ours, and now that we have an opportunity to go achieve it, we're really excited.

Q.   The magnitude of this game, does it feel different? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah.   You know, it doesn't feel too different yet.   I think once you step on the field and once you get to the stadium, it'll be an incredible feeling.   But at the same time we've just got to kind of control those emotions and try to play the best game that you can.

Q.   Talk about the Heisman compared to this.   How much more special is it that your teammates specifically are here to enjoy this with you?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It's truly special.   The amount of work that each one of us have put into this, it means a lot to be here and have an opportunity to play for the National Championship.   It's a privilege, and we're just going to try to make the most of this opportunity.

Q.   Is it melancholy because this will be your last college game? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Well, I haven't made a decision yet.   After the game is done, I'll take a couple days to make that decision with my family, and we'll obviously make the decision that's best for us as a family.

Q.   Now that you've had a chance to look at Ohio State on film, what impresses you most? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Sound, physical up front.   They've got a lot of guys that really control the line of scrimmage.   They're going to play their defense, and they're very good at it.   For us, we've really got to try to execute our game plan and see if we can move the ball. 

Q.   What's kind of the temperature of the team?   Are they really excited? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It seems about the same.   Obviously everyone is excited.   It's the biggest game of the season.   But at the same time, guys understand that you can't get too emotional about it.   You've got to stay mellow.   You've got to stay within yourself and try to play and not let emotions get too involved because it can make you play not as well. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Same as it's always been, take it one day at a time, enjoy the moments, enjoy this experience, but at the same time we do have a game to play.   Just take each practice, prepare the best that you can, and just get ready to play on Monday.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   He has not.   I'm sure he will soon. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I think it's great for college football.   I think it's an opportunity to allow teams to sometimes stumble early in the season.   It allows them to kind of have the opportunity to get back in the National Championship picture.   I think it is good for college football.

Q.   During your Heisman speech you mentioned (inaudible) what did you learn from your days at St.Louis that helped get you to this point?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Mindful and faithful, just continuing to always have faith in the process that you have, in the process that the Lord has put in front of you, and just go out there and try to make the most out of every opportunity.

Q.   During your days when you were growing up, did you ever think that you would be at this point?   What are the odds that you're here today? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, it's hard to explain.   I had visions, I had dreams of doing this stuff, but to actually be a part of it, it's incredible and just an honor. 

Q.   You said that you're enjoying the process.   What of this process are you enjoying?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Just being around my teammates.   It's another week that we get to spend as this team.   For us, it's awesome to be around the guys.   It's awesome to go through practice, through another week of preparation, so that's really what Coach talks about of enjoying this. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I watched a little bit of it.   We were hanging out with the team kind of enjoying our win of the Rose Bowl.

Q.   Is it shocking at all that it's Ohio State that you're playing?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Not at all.   They have an awesome coaching staff.   They've got great players.   They've been playing hard all year.   So there's no surprise at all.

Q.   You said no decision has been made yet.   That being said, are you (inaudible) a bit more than usual (inaudible)? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Of course.   I think you have to.   I mean, even if you're a freshman right now, you've got to enjoy this.   This happens not so often.   This is once‑in‑a‑lifetime stuff.   Try to enjoy it as much as you can, and then when the decision has to be made, we'll make it as a family. 

Q.   The running game has been a big factor in your offense all year.   Looking at Ohio State's defensive line, how difficult will it be?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It'll be tough.   They've got an awesome front seven.   They're big, physical guys that really control the line of scrimmage.   Hopefully we can earn some yards on 1st down and eventually will help us in 2nd and 3rd. 

Q.   (Question on Cardale). 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, what he's been able to do is incredible.   His ability to step up and lead his team says a lot about who he is.   He has so much confidence as a player, and it's incredible to watch.   I mean, you've got to‑‑ he's a freshman, and he's playing at a level so high right now that he's leading that team.   It says a lot about who he is and what kind of player he is. 

Q.   On the uniforms ‑‑
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I liked the all greens in the Rose Bowl.   I thought those were pretty sweet, with kind of the matte green, kelly green helmet.   Those were pretty cool.

Q.   What's your message to your fans back in your hometown?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Thank you.   Thank you for all the support.   Every decision that I make, I hope I make it with their best in mind.   The support that I've received is incredible, and I'm very grateful for it.

Q.   We heard between the Heisman ceremony and the Rose Bowl you made a quick trip back to the islands.   Talk to us about the importance of spending time with family and getting away from football. 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   You said it best.   It helps you just kind of recharge and refocus.   It was an opportunity for me just to relax after kind of everything that happened.   It was just an opportunity just to enjoy home, enjoy families and friends.   It was a good time for me.

Q.   Is there one thing that (inaudible)?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I would say so.   I think it really helps the team just kind of maintain focus.   This team has really dealt with a lot of adversity all year, and if we continue just to be ourselves, hopefully we'll be successful on Monday. 

Q.   What's your reaction (inaudible)? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Just, you know, most people are very sincere and genuine, and the amount of support that we've received is incredible.   Really I'm just grateful for it. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I mean, you're the first person to tell me that.   It's an honor just to hear from those people.   It's hard to really kind of fathom.   Again, I'm just grateful for their support, and just really honored for them to say something like that.

Q.   After seeing Ohio State on film, do you think it's going to be the biggest challenge you've faced all year?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Of course.   They're a tough defense, going to come out, and the magnitude of this game will definitely allow them to play just‑‑ they're going to be tough, so we've just got to focus on our game plan and make sure we just execute to the best of our abilities.

Q.   Looking at your performance at the Rose Bowl, how does that (inaudible)? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I don't think it should.   We rotate so many receivers in this offense that it doesn't matter who's up.   We'll be all right.   You know, our focus is just continuing just to play to our level, play within our system, and just have the next guy step up.

Q.   Is there one thing about the Ohio State defense that (inaudible)?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Just win the line of scrimmage, and it's going to be tough.   It's going to be tough for sure.   Those guys, that front seven is definitely one of the toughest that we'll play all year.   You know, it's going to be a struggle for us to win some 1st downs, but at the same time we've just got to try to execute and play to the best of our abilities. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)   Talk about the physicality of it all.   What do you say to that?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   That's someone's opinion.   We play a contact sport, so you get hit every week.   But again, that's just someone else's opinion. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Starts with the preparation, and that's all through the coaches.   The coaches really helped me out in understanding what coverages there's weak spots and where I can kind of take a risk with the football.   Without that, I wouldn't be where I'm at today. 

Q.   What's the biggest difference between you now versus (inaudible)? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I think this year a lot has to go right for a lot of that stuff to happen.   There's opportunities where guys do have opportunities to make interceptions and they drop the ball, but I think the coaches have done an incredible job this year of really preparing everybody each week for the task at hand, and I'm thankful for that.

Q.   You've had some pretty big moments over the last month, the Heisman ceremony, the Rose Bowl, and now you guys are here.   What have you told your teammates about preparation, about the big night ahead, and has it been easy to sleep at night? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, I mean, I think guys understand that you've just got to continue to prepare like we have been.   Our process that has been in place now for a few years has been successful, so these guys trust the process, and we've really just got to take it one day at a time, and once the game comes, just lay it all on the line for each other.

Q.   Can you describe the last month in terms of big moments?   How have you been able to deal with all the attention that you've been getting? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, for me I just try to focus on this team.   When the season is done, I'll take a step back and kind of just take in everything, so to say, but right now I'm just focused on this game and getting together with my teammates, and just ready to play.

Q.   Would you describe what the following of football is like in Hawai'i?   So many people on the mainland really just don't understand that. 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It's incredible.   The amount of support, the amount of really tradition that's there in Hawai'i, for each high school, it doesn't really matter‑‑ it's hard to describe because there's so much love for the game there.   It's hard for people to understand it.   When you're from Hawai'i, you want to represent your high school, and that's such a big deal to play on Friday and Saturday nights.   I think each football player in Hawai'i, each high school football player will tell you it's an incredible feeling when you go out there, and you have the support of your high school, your friends, and your families.   It's hard to describe the support and the amount of people that really enjoy the game in Hawai'i.   There's a lot. 

Q.   Do you take pride in being from Hawai'i? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I think, yeah, of course.   Just being from Hawai'i, it's such a unique place, it's such a special place.   It's a blessing for me to call home.   You know, the amount of pride that each person has from there, it's incredible.   For the most part everyone takes pride in being from Hawai'i.   For me, I try to represent that, and I hope I represent that in the right light. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I haven't really heard much.   I've been here, my family has been traveling, so for the most part it's just people are excited.   People are looking forward to this game, and it should be a lot of fun.

Q.   Your athletic director told me that (inaudible) spirit to the school (inaudible) how much of an honor to do that? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   That means a lot.   Yeah, I mean, you said it best.   I think everybody just wanted to provide people with what I was given in Hawai'i.   Now that the athletic director has said that, that's an incredible feeling for me.   For the most part, I think everyone from Hawai'i just tries to emulate that wherever they go, because it's something special.   If you're able to share that, it means a lot more to everyone else. 

Q.   What was it like when the trophy arrived and where do you keep it?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I can't really say where we're keeping it.   It was an awesome feeling.   A lot of my friends from high school were able to see that, and it was a special time for me.

Q.   So many Polynesian kids look to you.   What do you think that's meant for them the last couple months while you've had this platform?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Oh, man, I just hope that I've given them a little bit of hope to do the same things.   A lot of Polynesian kids, especially from home in Hawai'i feel that they don't have the same opportunity to come to the mainland and to be part of such a big college football program.   I hope that I give some confidence in some of these kids that they can do the same things.

Q.   Why did it feel that way?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It's just, you're in the middle of the Pacific.   It's hard for coaches to travel, and it's hard to get recruited.   But I hope that along with myself, other Hawai'i athletes that are doing the same things, that I hope allow college coaches to go down there and provide some of those opportunities for kids back home.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   They're great.   Their defense is stout.   Their offense scores points quickly.   We really have to bring our "A" game to be successful on Monday. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, I mean, it's tough for sure.   He's an incredible playmaker for us, but we rotate so many receivers that the next guy will step up, and we've just got to roll with what we have. 

Q.   Is this the last thing left to accomplish for you? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, but there's always an opportunity to get better.   You know, I think being a part of this National Championship, you know, it's an awesome feeling, and it would be an even greater feeling if we were able to win it. 

Q.   Considering Oregon has never won before, what would it mean to the school?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   To win it would‑‑ I wouldn't know how I'd describe that feeling.   To be the first team to win it from Oregon would be just an incredible deal.   You know, we're looking forward to the game, hopefully we have some success, and are able to bring it back to the University of Oregon.

Q.   How does this week feel compared to a week when you're down here a week early? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, it feels more like a road game.   I think there's not so many festivities and events that the team has to attend.   It feels more like you're just coming in for a road game.   So yeah, I mean, it's a lot different than preparing for a bowl game. 

Q.   How did it feel when you left Hawai'i and went to Oregon? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I mean, growing up‑‑ when you grow up in Hawai'i, they always‑‑ all the sports they have over there, they always talk about the Hawai'i players.   Sometimes they'll show a score of what the team did, but it's more about the Hawai'i players.   Growing up around that, you take a lot of pride in that.   When I left home, I knew that I had to try to do my best to represent Hawai'i and do that in the right light. 

Q.   When you were being recruited by Oregon before your senior year, did you think that you were going to end up coming here immediately, or were you thinking about other schools? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, you know, I had offers out of high school from the University of Memphis and the University of Washington.   I took an unofficial visit to Washington the week before I came down to Oregon.   I enjoyed the visit.   That was kind of the two schools that I was deciding between.   For me when I came to Oregon the following week, it just felt right.   The coaches were awesome, the facilities were incredible, and for me it just was the best fit.   That's what you really want for when you're looking for a school is to find what best fits you.

Q.   Some quarterbacks talk about having a chip on their shoulder, getting drafted really late in the NFL Draft.   Coming out of high school did you feel like you had that chip on your shoulder as you chose Oregon?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I wouldn't say I had a chip on my shoulder.   I think the mentality for me was just to go out there and play to the best of my abilities and hopefully get a shot.   It worked out for the best for me, and I'm grateful for it. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   There's no pressure at all.   I mean, we're focused on what we have to do as a team.   This team has faced a lot of adversity all year, and we've always talked about having the next guy step up.   For this receiving corps, we rotate so many guys that a lot of guys have gotten experience, and for us it's just the next guy has to step up and just be ready to go. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, I mean, you said it best.   A lot of these guys that are here right now were because of Coach Kelly.   He provided a lot of us an opportunity to play Division I football.   His imprint is still all around the program.   For us it's been successful. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It's pivotal.   You know, and I think being around this culture now for a few years, you understand that it's always, as clichÃ© as it sounds, it's win today.   You take it one day at a time, and if you can be successful each day, you will build a foundation that will allow you to achieve success.   It's kind of been how‑‑ this is how the culture has been since I've gotten here, and I trust it.   It's been working for us. 

Q.   How much do you follow what Chip is doing and stay in touch with him?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   You know, for the most part I enjoy watching the Eagle games.   It's fun to see him be successful.   It's hard to keep in touch, he's such a busy guy, but for the most part he always expresses his support for us, and that means a lot to the program. 

Q.   On Monday I guess (inaudible) is that a little overwhelming? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It means a lot.   It just, again, shows the amount of support that Hawai'i has, and it means so much to me.   That's special, and again, I'm just looking forward to the game, and hopefully just represent home in the right light. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   A little bit. 

Q.   Does it feel different than‑‑
MARCUS MARIOTA:   A little bit, but most people are generally nice and respectful.   They just want to express their support, and for me that means a lot. 

Q.   (Inaudible) seeing you get so emotional when you gave that Heisman speech.   Who has been the most influential?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   My parents, without a doubt.   They've sacrificed so much for me and they provided me an opportunity to be a part of all of this.   Without them it would be hard to say where I'm at right now. 

Q.   What similarities do you see between yourself and Cardale?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   He's an incredible athlete.   I think he's not‑‑ he has the ability to make plays outside the pocket as well as inside.   But it's tough to see the similarities.   I really focus on the defense, and I haven't been able to have an opportunity to watch him before. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Probably Shane Victorino, what he's been able to accomplish, winning a World Series, being in the MLB for such a long time now.   I definitely think he's done incredible things and has done a lot for the state. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   For me just to even be mentioned with those guys is an honor.   You know, for me I wouldn't rank myself anywhere near the top.   I think what those guys have really done is really I would say groundbreaking because they provided people like me an opportunity to leave home and to be a part of stuff like this.   Those guys were really the pioneers that allowed so many athletes like myself an opportunity to leave Hawai'i. 

Q.   Have you faced a defense similar to Ohio State's on your schedule?   Is there a team that reminds you of their defense?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   That's tough to say.   I think Michigan State probably would be the closest in my opinion, but Ohio State does so many different things schematically that it would be tough to say they're very similar.   But they're a tough defense, and we'll have to be ready for them. 

Q.   Since you won the Heisman (inaudible)?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I have not.

Q.   How have you been able to handle the distractions, and what does that mean going into this game?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   For me I really just looked forward to playing in the Rose Bowl, so I was focused on my preparation.   Once the Heisman stuff was done, I really looked forward to getting back with my teammates and getting ready for that game.   For the most part I just focus on what the team goals are, and that really helped me out.

Q.   Does that help you to carry over into this game?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   In terms of preparation? 

Q.   Yeah, do you carry that over? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, the momentum from the Rose Bowl I think will allow us to have a good week of practice.   It's really helped us in our preparation.   I would say it will help us out on Monday.

Q.   Is there part of a championship game experience four years ago that‑‑
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I wasn't a part of that team.

Q.   You guys are opposing a superstar coach just in terms of reputation.   What should we know about Coach Helfrich?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, Coach Helfrich, his love for us as players, his relationships that he builds has really brought this team closer.   We love playing for him.   He's such a smart coach.   He always puts us in good situations that allow us to be successful.   Coach Helfrich is an incredible coach, and I'm very grateful to be able to play for him.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I wouldn't say it's tough.   I think for the most part, the opportunity for us to go back to Eugene and to practice in our facility allows guys to kind of unwind and get ready for the next game.

Q.   We hear so much about the pace of your offense, and your defense goes against that every day.   How much do you think that will help? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I think playing against our defense every week has helped us, as well.   But yeah, I think it has allowed them to be prepared for the tempo if Ohio State does choose to use pace.   It is tough to play against it.   As much as you practice against it, it's different when you go out on the field. 

Q.   How much of an advantage do you think it is for you guys with what you do offensively? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, I think it's a huge weapon for us.   It allows us to get set and know our play before the defense is really even set and in their fronts.   It provides us a little bit of an advantage, and it's been successful for us all year. 

Q.   When did you find out that Darren Carrington wasn't going to play?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Probably like yesterday.   It's tough, but we'll have guys step up and ready to play. 

Q.   Have you had a chance to talk to him or has he had a chance to talk to the team?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   He hasn't been able to, but I'm sure he'll obviously be upset about what he's‑‑ and apologize.   But at the same time we're just going to focus on Monday.

Q.   How much will you miss not having him as a target out there? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I mean, he's a huge playmaker for us.   It'll be tough for sure, but we have guys that have played all year, and we'll have the next guy step up and ready to play.

Q.   Is this the most questions you've ever had to answer in one sitting?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I think last week at the Rose Bowl was probably pretty close. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Oh, yeah, of course.   The first few days of practice were so fast, and the intensity of it was incredible.   I mean, the first couple days your head is going to spin, but I think that Coach has done a good job, especially during that fall camp, of really slowing it down for me and allowing me to be accustomed to it. 

Q.   Did you wonder if you were even in shape at the beginning?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I think the first day you realize how you should be in shape.   After the first day I was kind of preparing for it. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, it's still pretty tough for me.   I am pretty quiet and reserved, so media days and stuff like that are something that I don't really look forward to.   I think after a couple years now, I've grown accustomed to it.   I've gotten used to some of this, and I've gotten a lot more comfortable with it. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Take a couple days off, talk over some things with my family, and then get ready for the next step, whatever that is. 

Q.   One of the unique storylines of this game is Ohio State is now on their third‑string quarterback.   You're now down to your third‑string wide receiver.   Can you talk about what that means for both teams? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   You said it best.   The amount of talent that is obviously shown with third‑string guys stepping up shows a lot about both programs and how far they've come.   For the most part, I think everyone talks about the next man up.   I think both programs have that within them, and it has allowed them to be successful. 

Q.   Ohio State has always been known as a brand of college football.   What would it mean to you to win a National Championship and maybe make a brand of Oregon football throughout the country? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   You know, I think for me, just winning it would mean a lot to this team.   It would mean that we were able to accomplish something that we set out our goals for.   Bringing back a National Championship to the University of Oregon would be special, being the first team to do it would be an indescribable feeling.   But at the same time for us it's more about the team, and we're focused on each other.

Q.   Did you know that these two teams played for a national championship back in 1958 back in the Rose Bowl?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I do remember.   There's a lot of people around the program that do share that with me.

Q.   So you guys came up short there.   Winning this, what would it mean back in Oregon and also back in Hawai'i for all the people following you?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It would be special.   Sorry for the lack of other words, but yeah, it would just be special.   The people in Oregon, people in Hawai'i, this would mean a lot to them.   Obviously I hope to achieve it. 

Q.   You grew up watching a lot of college football, but what did you think of Tim Tebow? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Watching college football growing up, Florida was really the team to beat, along with the University of Southern California.   Watching those teams and watching Tim Tebow and what he was able to do was fun to watch.   Those teams are very successful, and just, I think, for us, hopefully we can be a part of that on Monday.

Q.   What has the process been like for you from the Rose Bowl to here.   You win the Rose Bowl, everyone is celebrating on the field because you accomplished this big thing, and then you have to lace them back up again.   How long did it take for you and the team to get over, hey, we won the Rose Bowl, but that's just a step?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, we always talk about a 24‑hour policy.   For us we kind of enjoy it as a team after the game, and then we were able to get a couple days off when we were back in Eugene.   That really allowed us to kind of flush it and get ready for this week. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Physical.   They've got a lot of guys up front that can really control the line of scrimmage, and they have a lot of guys that really can make plays.   They're a physical bunch.   They're very sound in what they do, so it'll be tough. 

Q.   Does No.43 on their defense jump out at you?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, he's an incredible athlete.   He's always on the ball.   He's made countless plays all year.   I think he's a freshman, as well.   Yeah, that says a lot about who he is and his abilities, but yeah, he's always all over the ball. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   You said it.   They've provided support in their run defense, and they've done a great job in coverage.   Their entire defense is very sound, so for us it'll be tough sledding on Monday. 

Q.   On making the decision to come back.   Can you walk me through that? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   My family and I, we took Thanksgiving weekend and kind of fleshed it out.   When we talked about it and discussed it, we felt that it was best that I come back for another year.   When we made that decision, we actually had a team banquet that following Sunday, and that's when we told Coach Helfrich and that's when we decided that that would be the best fit for me.

Q.   Do you remember his reaction? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   He just shook my hand and said, let's go do it again.   For me that says a lot about him and what he means to the program.   He's done so much for us as players.   I was excited to come back for another year.

Q.   (Inaudible) impression that it was just you solo. 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Well, my family made the decision that weekend, and Hroniss was kind of doing the same deal, and we decided together and decided that he would‑‑ so he shared it, as well, with Coach Helfrich I believe on that team banquet.   It's something that we decided to do together. 

Q.   How important (inaudible)?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It's going to be important, and that's really got to be the focus of each of us on this team.   Obviously emotions will be there, but if we can control it, it will help us come out and start fast. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Being able to come back this year has really helped me with little things like footwork but also bigger things like learning some life lessons from Coach Frost and Coach Helfrich.   All those things, some of us, you take it for granted those first few years, but when it's coming close to the end, it means a lot more and says a lot about what they're able to do as coaches, and I'm really grateful for that. 

Q.   You mentioned coming back and how important it was, to get your degree, to play another year of college football.   How much of that decision (inaudible)?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Not a lot, to be honest with you.   My main focus was to get my degree and to enjoy another year with these guys.   When we set our team goals in the fall before fall camp, that obviously became of importance, but it didn't play a lot into my decision.

Q.   But you did say, as much as you loved winning the Heisman Trophy (inaudible)?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Of course, that was a team goal this year.   Being a part of this program now for a few years, you've got to understand that team goals are much more important than your own goals.   I think for us, if we're able to accomplish that team goal, it would say a lot about this team and a lot about the character that we've got.

Q.   Do you think because of the philosophy the team has, because you've faced adversity, do you think you're better prepared? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Of course.   I think everyone on this team understands that it could be an opportunity at any given time.   Each guy has really prepared all year for whatever their opportunity is.   Really the coaches always talk about the next guy up, and the next guy has to step up.

Q.   Ohio State's speed on defense, certainly a very physical team with a lot of speed, talk a little bit about that. 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, they're an athletic group.   They're physical up front.   They really control the line of scrimmage and allow their playmakers on the back end to make plays.   It'll be tough come Monday, and we've really got to be prepared for that. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   That's not true.   I've got to make a decision after the game. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It's got to be the next guy up.   We're constantly always talking about the next guy has to step up.   It doesn't matter when or where.   Whenever you're opportunity is, you've just got to come out and play to the best of your abilities and really step up for the team.

Q.   You guys have spoken a lot lately about being a family, and you're part of that family.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   You know, I haven't been able to talk to him.   I think he's been receiving so much support from the team.   Guys will always feel a little disappointment, but at the same time I think a lot of guys feel guilty because they felt that they should have helped, including myself.   It's tough, but we'll have to be ready for the next one, and whoever the next guy is, he'll step up. 

Q.   You've been supportive of other teammates in other situations.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, obviously I think being there to talk to him, hopefully helping him kind of think through some of the decisions hopefully would have helped him out.   But at the same time you've just got to let him be who‑‑ he's got to make his decisions, and I think he'll learn a lot from this. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   His ability to step up when the team needed him has been incredible.   I think it says a lot about who he is and how he's prepared all year, so for the most part I think watching him be able to do that is special. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, it's not only myself.   I think the entire team has to be on the same page.   For us to play at such a high tempo, it takes all 11 guys.   It's not only myself, but I think everyone has to be on the same page. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, for the most part.   I think when you‑‑ obviously when there's turnovers or you get a better field position, you want to be able to make the most of it.   I think Coach Frost has a great feel for it.   I think everybody has to be on the same page, so every single one of us has to be ready for what Coach Frost calls. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I don't know, I think they have so many dynamic playmakers and guys that can really win the line of scrimmage, so I wouldn't say we're vulnerable, but I think we've got to really focus on our game plan and make sure that we try our best to execute it. 

Q.   How do you think the Arizona loss might have actually helped you guys? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I mean, to deal with a little bit of adversity in the beginning of the year I think has really allowed us to kind of be stronger from it, come closer together, and has really allowed us to really play our best football after that. 

Q.   Ohio State's defense (inaudible) basically film study? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, I think probably close to Michigan State.   But at the same time they do some stuff differently that it would be hard to say that they're similar, but I think for the most part, just the way that they're physical up front and have guys on the back end that can really make plays, I would say probably Michigan State. 

Q.   It seems like even though Mark has such a great record, seems like people still want to talk about Chip Kelly.   What do you think Mark has to do to get out of that shadow?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Just keep doing what he's doing.   He's been successful.   He's done a great job of leading this team.   I think people around the program know that this is his team.   I think if he continues to do what he's doing, he'll be successful whatever he does. 

Q.   With so many changes at wide receiver, do you see numbers or do you see‑‑
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, I mean, obviously you do like match‑ups as a quarterback, but I think for the most part if you go through your progressions, it does become just a position.   For the most part I think that receiver group has done a great job of stepping up all year.   It's been good for us. 

Q.   What would it mean to win a National Championship?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Incredible, incredible feeling.   I think for us it's a team goal, so to be able to accomplish that would be an awesome feeling, and to bring it back for the University of Oregon for the first time would be special. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Winning the Rose Bowl and winning the Pac‑12 is definitely two things that have been really cool for me. 

Q.   And what is the most embarrassing thing (inaudible)? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Embarrassing?   Oh, man.   Actually against Cal, I dropped a snap, so that's pretty embarrassing.   Ended up in a negative play for us. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   My iPhone.   That's definitely something that I'm always on.

Q.   Do you have one of the big ones?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   No, I've got the iPhone 5. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Text, talk to friends from home or friends from the university. 

Q.   Do you want to say anything to the folks in Portland watching right now?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Thank you for your support.   We appreciate everything you guys have done for us, and go Ducks. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Incredible leadership, just an incredible athlete, someone that really sets the tempo, sets the intensity up front.   Having him back has meant a lot to us. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It didn't change a whole lot scheme‑wise, but it provided us some senior leadership and allowed us to communicate and be all on the same page. 

Q.   How important (inaudible)?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   They're of great importance.   Without those guys, we wouldn't be able to have the looks and prepare the way that we do.   Those guys have done an awesome job for us all year and have provided us incredible looks that have really allowed us to get ready for the game. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)   What about the golf course brings that out in you? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Golf is a frustrating sport.   You can hit a nice shot, then the next one you can hit it in the water.   You know, in that sense, it is a little frustrating, but I think that game has allowed us to kind of deal with a little bit of adversity and frustration and has helped us in the long run. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   That's tough to say.   You know, I think for us it's been a great season.   Nothing will take away what we've been able to accomplish this year.   But for us I think winning a National Championship would mean a lot.   It would mean a lot to the university, and hopefully we'll be able to do that on Monday.

Q.   What's your favorite piece of equipment?   What's the thing where you said, this is pretty cool?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   The Jordan 3s from a couple years ago, the white ones, were sweet.   I still have them.   They're at home.   They're displayed in a nice little thing.   Those are definitely something that was incredible and something that I'll cherish for the rest of my life.

Q.   Do you have an appreciation for what Ohio State has gone through this season to get here with the quarterback injuries, losing one of their best players? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   You know, to see what they've gone through, and for them to be able to accomplish what they have says a lot about who they are as a team.   I don't think anybody can really understand losing someone and having a death of a teammate, so I think that's hard to relate to.   What they've been able to do as a team to come together and to be a part of this championship game says a lot about who they are and says a lot about that program. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It's been a huge part of it.   You know, the coaching staff does a great job each week preparing us, and that's really allowed me to grow and understand the offense, and it's certainly helped me as a football player.   Like you said, it helps us put our offense in good situations, and I'm thankful for that. 

Q.   Talk about your ability to process information.   Is that something you've always been able to do? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I don't know.   You know, I think being a part of this program, being a part of Coach Frost and Coach Helfrich's learning has really helped me in that sense, has really helped me make quick decisions, and I think this offense, it's a requirement.   I think over the last couple years, just being in the offense and playing in it has really helped my decision making.

Q.   You said sometimes you like to push the tempo.   Have you guys ever had conversations on the sideline about that?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, you know, he'll usually call down or I'll call up, depending on the flow of the game.   If I feel we need to do something or if I see something, I'll let him know, and vice versa.   He's kind of the eyes in the box and someone that helps me out in every way. 

Q.   Can you talk a little bit about Lockie and his development so far this season and how you're helping him and what you think about his future here?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Jeff has a very bright future.   He's incredibly smart.   He understands this offense and has really for me helped me out on the sideline.   He sees stuff that allows me to make better decisions out on the field.   He's done an awesome job picking up the offense, doing his best at learning it, and I think he has a bright future for sure. 

Q.   You guys have lost a lot of (inaudible)?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, for the most part we practice, and what we do, we do at such a tempo that allows us to get a lot of reps, so the chemistry allows us to build chemistry with each player.   It doesn't matter if it's the second‑ or third‑string guy.   The way that we practice allows everyone to be prepared, especially if there are opportunities coming up.

Q.   If you could trade the Arizona loss for a win, would you?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Obviously I would, just as a competitor.   I think the mindset after that game, though, for us has really helped us be successful this year.   I don't know if I'd trade it, but obviously I'd love to get a win there.

Q.   What's your take on Cardale Jones?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Yeah, he's an incredible football player.   His ability to step up when his team needs him says a lot about who he is.   He's going to make plays, and he's an incredible athlete that has a strong arm and somebody that can change the game with his abilities.   He's a special player, and really just an awesome teammate. 

Q.   What does it feel like to be the second best player from (inaudible)?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It feels great.   It's an honor, because you're No.1 for sure.   Thank you, mahalo, for all the support.   Appreciate everything you guys have done for us as a family.   Just thank you. 

Q.   You've accomplished almost everything there is to accomplish (inaudible)?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Not at all.   I'm focused on this team and this goal that we've had.   I'm not going to add any more pressure on to that.   It's going to come on Monday.

Q.   Where is this team's confidence, and how would you say it's grown?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I don't think there was any loss in confidence.   I don't think the mindset was changed.   I just think guys just don't like losing.   Really put an emphasis on trying our best in every game and making sure that we don't allow ourselves to have another loss.

Q.   A lot of guys have talked about how you guys have walked that line.   How have you been able to do that? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   You know, it starts with the coaches.   They instill confidence in us in each week that we prepare.   I think for the most part, guys understand that there is a fine line between cockiness and confidence.   When you're playing at an ultimate confidence, it allows you to play quicker, allows you to play faster and make better decisions.   I think for us that's what's made us successful this year. 

Q.   What's your relationship with Jeff Lockie?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   He's a great friend of mine, somebody that I go to, whether it's from football or school or stuff like that.   He's been an incredible person for me, and for the most part I try my best to pass on what I've learned here, and hopefully make him successful, and I think he has a bright future. 

Q.   How difficult was it to do what Cardale Jones did, come in on that stage?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Incredibly difficult.   I think his ability to do that says a lot about who he is and his confidence in his abilities and how much his teammates trust him.   That's not an easy task at all.   For him to be able to do that says a lot about who he is.   It's really incredible to watch. 

Q.   What do you respect most about Ohio State's team?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Their entire team.   They've got unbelievable playmakers, guys that are going to make plays, and the amount of talent that they have is tremendous, and they're a great football team. 

Q.   Tell us a little bit about what you learned growing up going to St.Louis?   What did you learn there to get to this point? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   You know, they instill things like mindful and faithful.   That has really helped me in my process and allowed me to be here.   It always talks about trusting the Lord's plan, and that's been a gift, and for me that's really what's made me successful.

Q.   Talk a little bit about you as a role model for some Polynesian football players that you talked about in your Heisman speech?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I just hope I give them a little bit of confidence to go out there and be successful and have confidence in their abilities and hopefully provide them some hope to leave home and seek opportunities outside of Hawai'i. 

Q.   What does it mean for you to represent the 808 in this big game?   You've had a lot of chances.   Talk about growing up in Hawai'i. 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It means a lot.   Every decision that I make on and off the field, I think about where I come from.   I hope that I can represent that in the right light.   You know, it means a lot that I'm able to represent them in this game, and hopefully I do that to the best of my abilities.

Q.   What do you want to say to the people of Hawai'i as so many fans are coming and watching this big game?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Just thank you.   I appreciate all the support.   It means a lot.   Just thank you.   Thank you. 

Q.   If you could be anyone in the world for a day, who would you be and why?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I'd been Bronson Yim because you guys know, he's got all the swag.   He's got everything that any guy would want.   I'd definitely be him for a day.

Q.   For people who don't know what Bronson Yim is, who is he?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   He played defensive back here at the University of Oregon, attended St.Louis High School in Honolulu, Hawai'i, makes plays each and every day at practice and is an incredible football player.   Thank you.   You too.   What's your favorite color? 

Q.   I'm the one asking the questions. 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   Blue.

Q.   Why? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   I don't know. 

Q.   It's not green or yellow?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   That would have been the right answer for sure. 

Q.   Has (inaudible) been a distraction?
MARCUS MARIOTA:   No, it really hasn't, because I really haven't made my decision yet.   I don't know if that's my future.   It hasn't been a distraction for me, I just have been able to focus on this game and make sure that I go out there and prepare. 

Q.   You guys have had so many guys down this year.   What is it about this team that's let that happen? 
MARCUS MARIOTA:   It starts with the coaches.   They've really prepared each and every single player for their opportunity.   It's given each guy confidence to go out there and play to the best of their abilities.   That's what I love about this team.   Everyone talks about the next guy up.   For us it's really helped us and provided us with success.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT