NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
May 30, 2018
Nick Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








NICK YOUNG: I just know it's going to be a battle.  Watching them go on to different rounds and just sitting back and watching The Finals and saying, man, I wish I could play in that one day, and here I am.  I'm just so happy I'm going to be playing here tomorrow.  Happy.  Ready.
Q. What's this like for you being in The Finals against [former teammates] Larry Nance Jr. and Jordan Clarkson?
NICK YOUNG: If you had watched the Lakers, you all wouldn't think we'd be at this point, you know (laughing).  But it's going to be exciting.  I know those guys are over there ready, I talked to them a little bit here and there.  But for the most part, just being in a Finals, seeing all y'all, seeing how you all kicked me off the court today to do media.  This is my first time, so, yeah, getting the jitters out.
Q. What are you saying to them, trash talking?
NICK YOUNG: I wasn't talking too much trash.  It was pretty much, well, the first night, when they won, they took a picture of the Eastern Conference trophy, sent it to me.  It was like, hopefully you can get one of these.  You know, so sent them one back, and now I'm ready to send something else.
Q. Were you happy to get on a team where this is a possibility?
NICK YOUNG: Yeah, just to be on a team that's in The Finals and come out and play.  The guys are out there working.  Some nights it's their night, some nights it's not.  But they're still staying with it, and that's what it's all about.
Q. Did you have any emotional or reflection type of moments the last couple days?
NICK YOUNG: Oh, man, I'm still on a high.  They're telling me to calm down because you didn't win The Finals.  We've still got games to go.  But to me that was just a big moment for me.  They were acting all nonchalant, but I haven't won nothing, so winning that trophy after the years I've been through, that felt good.
Q. But you said you were going to put the trophy down and celebrate the moment?
NICK YOUNG: Yeah, so, you know, it was messing up my moment.  Shout out to Ernie [Johnson].  We love you, Ernie, but I was trying to get back to the locker room and celebrate a little bit.
Q. You got a visit from [Dennis] Rodman in your dreams the last round.  Any Finals dreams yet?
NICK YOUNG: We'll see how that goes tonight.  Most of my dreams come to me either pregame or the night before.  So it's kind of interesting.  We'll see who will pop up tonight.
Q. What do you mean pregame?  You take a nap before the game?
NICK YOUNG: Yeah, take a little nap.  Some people come talk to me, knock on my door in my dreams and stuff.  But we'll see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT