GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 22, 2017
Nick Young
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you take us back when Steve and some of the guys met with you during free agency and they kind of outlined that you'd be a really good fit?  What's going through your mind at that point?
NICK YOUNG: You know, I was pretty much surprised.  Just won the championship.  Here I go having lunch with Steve Kerr and Draymond Green and KD, wondering what they need from me; they just won the championship.
But them guys, you know, is cool.  Maybe they was very persuasive.  Yeah, I'm here now.
Q. (Indiscernible)
NICK YOUNG: They took me out on the town a little bit.  I like to go out a little bit.  They just knew me.  They just get me.
Q. A lot of the guys have been asked today with so much of the roster back, and just a lot of you are used to playing so many minutes.  What's kind of the unselfish nature of this group you've observed already and everybody just wanting to win?
NICK YOUNG: I think that's the goal is winning.  For me, just being here, it feels more like a family.  They all get along.  They all talk from top to bottom.  I think that plays a major role on how they play on the court, too.
Q. I'm curious whether you, in addition to obviously meeting with Coach Kerr and those players, did you spend anytime talking to your former teammate, JaVale McGee, about his experience and how they incorporated him into the team last year?
NICK YOUNG: Yeah, but JaVale just want to have another cinnamon challenge with me.  But, no, just from me watching, just seeing the growth in JaVale, I thought that was pretty much cool that where he started from to where he finished.
And from him telling me it's just totally different up here.  It's a family feel.  They let you be you.  You don't have to worry about nothing else, just basketball.
Q. What's been just like the overall experience now in the Bay Area?  I know you haven't been here too long.  But I know you went out on Twitter and asked people places to do, places to go.  Have you done any of that, or anything you're looking forward to doing out here?
NICK YOUNG: Actually, I drove from L.A. here just to see the views and see the road trip, get a nice road trip.  But I'm looking for like where y'all eat at.
I went to, forgot the name.  I had some of your clam chowder out here so far.  But the sourdough bread, had that so far.  And I went to the crookedest place in the world, the street.  Yeah.  Yeah.  So I've been around a little bit.
Q. Who in your opinion is the best shooter on the team?
NICK YOUNG: You know, probably have to go with Steve Kerr and then -- (laughter) -- and then you could go through anybody from behind that, yeah.
Q. Coming to this team, like you said, you wonder what they wanted from you, they just won a championship.  What do you think you can bring them?
NICK YOUNG: You know, more firepower.  Obviously I can shoot a little bit.  Just for me being on a winning team, I think I needed that.  I think I needed to be around winners.  From playing with Coach Luke, I kind of know the offense a little bit, because they play similar styles.  Just getting here, trying to do it all, whatever I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT