PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2014
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  EDOARDO MOLINARI:   It was very good.   Putter was working nicely.   I hit a lot of good iron shots, and off the tee I was struggling a little, but the course luckily was fairly generous, so I didn't do any damage. 

Q.   I saw you were able to get the ball on the green from the rough a couple of times to keep the round going. 
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   As I said, the rough is thick, but it's playable.   It's not like a U.S. Open rough.   It's missing on the right side, so I had a good angle to the flag and made a couple of birdies from the rough, so that was nice.
I wasn't playing very well coming into this week after the Open.   My form went a little bit but I spent a lot of time with Sean Foley the last couple of days on the range and on the course, as well.   I've got clear what I need to do and hopefully I can keep progressing and getting better. 

Q.   You have to be extremely happy. 
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   Yeah, very happy, obviously.   I wasn't playing very well the last three days, and today I hit the ball really well in my irons.   My game off the tee wasn't as good as it has been the last few months, and I've made a lot of putts, which always helps.

Q.   The course out there, what are your thoughts? 
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   I think the course is very good.   I think it's quite generous for being a major.   The rough is very playable, and you just have to manage yourself.   There's a few tough holes and then there's a lot of birdie chances, so I think you'll see a lot of good scores this week. 

Q.   Starting off the front nine,31 and with a birdie, has to be a good way to get it going. 
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   Yeah, definitely.   I didn't start with a good driver on the first.   It was on the right side of the fairway and I missed it and had a long iron in.   But managed to hit the green and make a nice 25‑foot putt, which is a good start to the major. 

Q.   What was working best for you? 
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   I holed a very good putt on 9, but then 7 I hit two shots, I was just 50 yards short of the green and hit a great chip shot to five, six feet. 
Then on the 8th hole, I almost made a hole‑in‑one.   I hit a 6‑iron and finished three feet short of the flag.   So I've been hitting my irons very well today.   As I said, my game off the tee isn't as good as it has been but I know what I have to do and hopefully I can keep getting better for the next few days.

Q.   Do you think that was key today, the irons and how some of the pins were tucked back in there?
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   The greens were quite soft this morning and if you're hitting the irons nicely you can be a bit more aggressive and go for them a little bit more, and that's what I did this morning and it worked out perfectly.

Q.   You have to be happy birdieing 18 and end on a good note. 
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   Yeah, definitely.   18 was quite easy because it was down and off the right and I hit two very good 3‑woods to the back edge of the green.   Chip shot wasn't very good but managed to make a good, seven, eight feet putt to close out a nice round. 

Q.   Thoughts on tomorrow? 
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   Just try to play the same.   As I said, I need to do some work on the range with my tee shots, especially the driver.   You can get around with 3‑wood and that's been working quite well, so it has not been a problem. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT