THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2014
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (Inaudible.)EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think I hit the ball very well today.  I'm hitting my driver very well finally.  I spent a bit of time with Sean on Tuesday, Wednesday working on it and getting my confidence back.  Because earlier in the year I was hitting it really, really good, and lately that wasn't the case.  But today some really nice ones, 16, 17.  On holes you can make a big difference if you hit a good drive.Q. (Inaudible.)  Do you feel like you're within striking distance?EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think I am a little bit too far, to be honest, because I think Rory is going to make one, possibly two birdies coming in.  But, you know, I'm just happy to be where I'm in the position I am.  And I'm hitting the ball nicely, I'm putting nicely.  Just going out tomorrow and enjoying myself, because a year ago I wasn't even sure if I could keep on playing golf.  And now I'm 4th, 5th in The Open Championship.  That's good enough for me.Q. (Inaudible.)EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think it's better now.  I think I have a lot more confidence in my long game.  And even days like yesterday where I didn't score yesterday but my game was as good as today.  Links scores sometimes you get the odd bounce and the odd putt that lips out, and it makes quite a difference.  But I think overall my game is the best it's ever been right now.Q. (Inaudible.)EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, the hand is not yet 100 percent, it's still a little bit stiff and a little bit tight in the morning, especially.  But it's great to be able to play pain-free, without taking painkillers, without anti-inflammatories.  And it will probably never be the same as the other hand after two surgeries, but it's good enough to play, and that's fine with me.Q. Are you taking any kind of treatments with it?EDOARDO MOLINARI: On and off.  Probably a couple of days a week I go to see the physios just to keep an eye on it.  Apart from that, it's as good as the other.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT