THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2014
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (Inaudible.)  Are you generally pleased?EDOARDO MOLINARI: Overall I'm very pleased with the day.  It was a difficult start.  I was hitting the ball on the front nine, as well.  I find it difficult to make birdie.  I was hitting good shots that never ended up by the flag.  And I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in.  But then I got my reward on the back nine with a nice stretch on 12, 13 and 14.  And unfortunately I bogeyed the last, but all in all it's a good day.Q. (Inaudible.)  That must be so encouraging your scoring like this?EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, today was a bit difficult on the par 5s, but to be honest, they were playing much more difficult than yesterday.  5 was in the crosswinds.  10 was into the wind off to the left.  And 16 and 18 were not reachable at all. So definitely the par 5s were more difficult today than the way they played yesterday.  But obviously I didn't play them well.  So I need to work on that.Q. So I understand you are not a scoreboard watcher, is that true?EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, I look at the scoreboards quite often.  But it's just I try and play my game regardless of where you are on the leaderboard.Q. Did you happen to look when you and your brother were one and two?EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, I missed that.  But, you know, it's still Friday.  So hopefully we can keep playing well and be up there on Sunday afternoon.Q. We make a big deal with you guys playing so well, but do you feel like your both playing the course, rather than playing against each other?EDOARDO MOLINARI: Definitely, definitely.  I think as everyone knows, we are very close to each other.  And we're generally very happy when the other brother plays well.  So the more birdies, he makes the better I feel, as well.  So hopefully we can both keep going in the next few days.Q. If you both are in Sunday in contention, does it change the dynamics at all?EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think if you're both in contention Sunday afternoon, going down the back nine, maybe it changes a little bit, especially in such a big event.  But it happened a couple of times before and we're still very close to each other.  So nothing will change regardless.Q. Is there any awkwardness at all?EDOARDO MOLINARI: A little bit, because you're pulling for your brother.  But obviously if you're tied with him for the lead, you don't want him to make a lot of birdies.  So it's a bit awkward.  But at the same time you have two chances to win the tournament, almost.Q. You're older, so you feel like you should be the one to do things first, you know?EDOARDO MOLINARI: But I have been used to.  He was the first one to come out on Tour.  And he's always been a little bit better than me, to be honest.  So I'm not really making a big thing about it.Q. (Inaudible.)EDOARDO MOLINARI: Maybe.  I think it helped both of us.  I think we're always a little bit spurred to play better and to beat your brother, as well.  And that definitely help both of us.Q. Did you ever worry that you wouldn't have chances like this again after surgery?EDOARDO MOLINARI: Well, when you have surgery you always think about hopefully one day I can be able to play golf again pain free.  And I'm not 100 percent yet, and probably I will never be after having two surgeries on the same hand.  But as long as I can keep playing like the last two days, and be able to play without taking painkillers, it's great.Q. When was the last time (inaudible.)EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think beginning of the year after the surgery it was still a little bit sore and tight.  So sometimes I was still taking painkillers, but it's probably been six months now and it feels very good.Q. Did you see this coming, these two low rounds?EDOARDO MOLINARI: Well, I was playing very well in the last few weeks.  I was just not getting the rewards.  In Scotland last week I felt I hit the ball quite well and managed to miss the cut.  And sometimes it happens.  I played really well in the practice rounds.  I spent some time with Sean on the range the other day, and he was very happy about it, about my swing, where it is at the moment.  And I think that showed on the golf course.Q. (Inaudible.)EDOARDO MOLINARI: Well, I think there's different ways of looking at it.  Obviously if you play the weekend, you get two more rounds on a links course, two more competitive rounds.  But on the other side we came down, both Francesco and I on Saturday afternoon and played one very good practice round on Sunday.  Because Sunday is always less busy and there's not many people out there, and that's the best chance to have a look at the course.  So I think that helped both of us.Q. Will you go watch him now?EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, I think I'm too tired.  I'll probably watch him on TV in the players' lounge and that's it.Q. Do you guys talk golf at all or do you avoid --EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, we do talk golf a little bit, but we're not in the same house.  And so we only see each other on the golf course mainly, and we just try to do our business and obviously chat a little bit about golf.Q. Is that by design that you stay at different places?EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, I think it's just easier.  He's staying with his agent and a few friends of his.  And if we just stayed the whole group together, it's going to be way too many people.  It's just to keep it a bit quiet.Q. (Inaudible.)EDOARDO MOLINARI: It was fantastic.  Francesco has been there many times, and Matteo, I don't think he had the best year so far by his standards.  So I think Matteo must have been very pleased yesterday, as well.  And myself obviously coming after two surgeries, I was really happy.  So I think the three of us and every Italian golfer must have been like a dream day.Q. Do you think you'll grow the sport back home?EDOARDO MOLINARI: Maybe one day but I think we need to at least win a major.Q. Can it make up for (inaudible.)EDOARDO MOLINARI: I don't think so, there's way too many football supporters, unfortunately.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT