THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2014
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MIKE WOODCOCK: We're delighted to welcome Edoardo Molinari into the interview room. A great start for you 4-under par, 68 today and currently tied for the lead.  How important is it for you to get off to a good start this week at The Open?   EDOARDO MOLINARI: It's always important any week.  But I think with the weather coming in for the next few days, it was very important to shoot a good number today.  And you can play a little bit more defensively, if you need, in the next few days.   Q.  In terms of conditions, just how scorable was it out there today?  Although you're in the lead at the moment, were there more opportunities?  Did you leave a few out there?  EDOARDO MOLINARI: I missed a few putts, as well, but you can't make them all.  And it's definitely the easiest it's going to play all week because the wind is very, very light.  It's probably half a club. And some of the flags are quite difficult.  Probably the R&A knew that the weather was going to be very benign today.  So they just put some flags a little bit behind the bunkers.  Apart from a few holes where you really have to pay attention to, the rest is pretty scorable.   Q.  Can you talk a little bit about your career in the last few years since the Ryder Cup in 2010.  EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, basically I had an injury during the 2011 season, and then I started to play through it and eventually I had to undergo surgery in June 2012.  And then that took me away from golf for about four months, and then came back and after a month and a half I had another injury in the same hand, but nothing to do with the previous surgery, and did the same thing.  I tried to play through it; couldn't do it.  And then had a surgery August last year.  So less than a year ago.  And then I just restarted playing the end of November last year.  So basically seven months ago.   Q.  Would it be fair to suggest that the last four years have been very, very frustrating for you?  EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, I would say, since the end of 2011 it wasn't a lot of fun.  It's very frustrating when you have an injury and you can't really do anything about it.  And I think especially the toughest time was after the first surgery when you undergo one surgery one time, then you hope it's the last one.  And then to do it again something like a year later wasn't fun at all.  But hopefully, touching wood, everything is fine now, and I can keep playing good golf.   Q.  It must be a relief that after all that frustration to be back in a major and at the top of the leaderboard.  Is it good to sort of get your name back out there?  EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, just to get in a major is the first step.  And I was very happy a few weeks ago in Ireland when I got my spot in here because I said, you know, as I said it's less than a year after surgery.  So that's quite a quick recovery, I think. And then obviously to shoot a good number today and be in good position for the last three rounds, it's another step in the right direction.   Q.  I understand that you had three surgeries?  EDOARDO MOLINARI: Two surgeries.   Q.  Two surgeries?  EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah.   Q.  One is on the wrist or two is on the wrist?  EDOARDO MOLINARI: One was on the wrist and one was on the thumb on the same, left hand.   MIKE WOODCOCK: Thank you for coming in, and best of luck the rest of the week.   Q.  I wonder if you'd mind if I ask a question in English for you to answer in Italian?  EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah.   Q.  What does it mean at the moment, you're the joint leader at the moment?  How are you feeling?  Are you confident going into Round 2?  EDOARDO MOLINARI: (Answering in Italian.)   MIKE WOODCOCK: Would you briefly mind summarizing that in English as well, for the media?   EDOARDO MOLINARI: Basically I said that today was a good start.  And the course is playing as easy as it's going to play all week.  And I hit the ball very well, hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, made some putts, missed a few, but that's golf.  And it's good to shoot 4-under on the first day and put me in a good position for the next few days.   MIKE WOODCOCK: Thanks very much.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT