THE IRISH OPEN
June 19, 2014
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on 4‑under par around here?  
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   I think it's a very good score.   I was playing quite well.   I had a lot of chances and I putted very well.   So overall it was a good day.  
   
 Q.   And a nice run of birdies on the back nine.   
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I had like two very good stretch, one on the front and one on the back.   I think there are a lot of birdie holes but the rough is quite thick.   Around the greens it's quite difficult to get the ball up‑and‑down, so you really have to play well to shoot a good number.  
   
 Q.   There are chances, aren't there, but you've got to be careful, it's a bit of a challenge at times?  
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   Yeah, absolutely.   I think two of the par 5s, 18 and 10, they are reachable, but it's quite dangerous, so it makes you think a lot.   Overall I think the course is a very good golf course.   It's very well designed and it's in great shape, as well, so I think most players will enjoy it.   
   
 Q.   I take it by and large, you're feeling good about your game at the moment; the last few months have been looking good?   
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   Yeah, the last few months were quite good.   I was in Florida with Sean a couple of weeks ago and we work on something, and last week I was hitting it the best I've ever hit it.   I think today was a bit of a step back, but I know what to work on.   
And there's a good story, because I was playing with a friends of mine last week, and I was shooting 6‑ or 7‑under every day and I got a lot of money out of him.   Hopefully I can make some good money this week and borrow him some.   
   
 Q.   Just a slight little change, just a little adjustment?   
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   We are to the point now where the major work is behind us and my hand is finally feeling good.   So it's only little tweaks.   As you said, I've been hitting the ball quite well all year.   I just needed something to bring my game to the next level, and what I saw last week was very good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT