ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2012
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   As well as the physical barrier, do you have to overcome a mental barrier?  
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   A little bit in the beginning but once you hit the first few shots and it is not painful, you forget a minute about it so it wasn't a big problem.   But it was just getting back to moving the wrist fully, being fully flexible and just basically getting the rust out of the way.  
   
 Q.   After three months after, is it particularly your short game‑‑  
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   I would say I practised a lot of short game because in the beginning‑‑ short game wasn't too bad.   In Italy I was hitting the ball absolutely everywhere off the tee.   This week was much better.   Best ball‑striking I've had in a long, long while and keep improving.   
   
 Q.   You like Scotland obviously; enjoy playing here?   
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   It's very nice, especially when the weather is like this week, a little bit of wind.   It's cold but it's all right.   It's not too bad and I think it's one of the best places in the world to play golf.  
   
 Q.   Sunday night, where were you watching The Ryder Cup and how nervous were you watching Francesco?  
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   I was flying up to here so I watched bits and bits.   I watched all the way until Francesco was at 12 or 13th, and then as soon as I landed I turned my laptop on and I was watching live on the Internet, Martin Kaymer's putt was the first shot I saw when I landed, it was good timing.   It was an unbelievable performance.   
Historically we have always suffered a bit in the singles and especially playing away, and I think to be able to win 8 1/2 points out of 12 against such a strong team is an unbelievable achievement.  
   
 Q.   Did you speak to Francesco straight after?   
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   No, I just sent him a text straight after.   Then we spoke Wednesday night.   
I think once you play one Ryder Cup you don't want to miss any, and unfortunately last year I didn't play well and this year I had the injury.   So I'm really looking forward in the next two years and to come back to Scotland and play in The Ryder Cup.   
   
 Q.   And at Gleneagles; obviously you've had success there in the past.  
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   Obviously Gleneagles is a place I love because I won there.   I think it will be fantastic for The Ryder Cup, it's a fantastic golf course.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT