THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 11, 2011
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did you talk to your brother at all about the golf course?  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, I talked with him a few times, and he told me a few things. It's even more important to hit fairways because if you play from the rough it's going to be difficult to get to the greens. That's about it. It's a great test, and every year it gets better and better.  
  
  Q. Have you played the video game?  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, I've played it a few times.  
  
  Q. What's your best score?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think I shot about level par at Augusta.   
  
  Q. You're playing the difficult setting, right?  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I'm playing the difficult setting.   
  
  Q. You have a caddie that's been around for about 70 years or so. What does Colin bring to you?  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Well, obviously he brings a lot of experience. Colin is great for me because he knows the job so well being around so long, especially the big events. When he was caddying for Retief they were winning big events a lot. Especially the majors and big events he's good to have.  
  
  Q. How did you guys hook up?  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Well, I started to start to work with Colin but he was working at the time, and he was working for Alexander Noren, and then when he finished working with Noren, I was looking for a caddie at the time, and as soon as I knew Colin was free, I called him and he started working for me. That was the Bridgestone last year.   
  
  Q. Is he more course management or just --  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Well, he does two things, I think. One is course management. He knows how to play the course, especially courses I've never played before. He's very helpful, especially out here like this week and at the U.S. Open. You have to play some shots that are not conventional, and if you have a guy that's been there, it's always going to help you. And then he's also a very calm person, and I think under pressure that helps, to do the same things over every shot, whether you're leading a major or trying to make the cut in a tournament. I think that's very important. You don't want a guy to be very excited when you're up there and to get depressed when you're not playing well. Colin is always the same, and I think that's very helpful.  
  
  Q. Smart guy, too.   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Oh, yes. I'm sure he's one of the smartest caddies, one of the more educated caddies out here.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT