MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2011
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Is it playing easier out there today or what are the conditions like?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I don't think so. I think there's some tough flags and I think the greens are firming up by far compared to yesterday. 
 So I think Justin and I both played early and we played good tee to green and I think that's what you have to do today. 

 Q. What's the key today? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think there are a lot of flags today that are very dangerous, like the first hole, the fifth hole, the sixth hole, you just have to stay away from them because you can make bogey hitting shots there. So you have to play for par on those holes and try to birdie the par-5s and when you get an easy flag. 

 Q. You had a nice string of birdies there in the middle of the round, take me through those. 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, I had a birdie on 12. I hit a great 9-iron to three feet. 
 13, I hit a 3-wood just around the corner and hit a great second shot on the green and 2-putted. 
 And then 14, I don't like the tee shot there so I decided to hit a 3-wood and lay up and I hit a good 5-iron to probably 40 feet and made the putt. So that was very good. 
 Unfortunately, the poor drive on 15 and I ended up making 6, but apart from that it's been, it was a great round of golf.

 Q. If felt like you burned quite a few edges out there. You were constantly putting yourself in position for birdie. Do you feel like you left some shots out there today?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: You always feel like you're leaving some shots out there, especially on a course like this. But I think especially on the front nine I was hitting a lot of great golf shots and I was ending up with like 10, 12 feet for birdie that you couldn't be aggressive at. You cannot hit them firm because the greens are so quick. 
 So I feel like I hit a lot of good putts, but I just hit a lot of edges as well. But, all in all, 69 is a great round, I think. 

 Q. What are your goals for tomorrow?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think that the first goal would be to make the top-16 to come back next year. And then we'll see after that. Who knows. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT