ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2010
Edoardo Molinari
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Going from stroke play to match play --  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: For me it was a very difficult -- no the so much physically but more mentally. I think it's very difficult to get your focus back after last week. And it's the first time I experienced it, and it's very, very difficult, so hopefully today I can go back in the hotel, get some rest and get ready for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. What was the hardest thing about it?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think the hardest thing is just try to focus on your shots. Sometimes you're hitting a tee shot onto a fairway and you don't know where the wind is and what's going to happen to the ball once it lands out of the bunkers. You're just hitting the ball like without thinking about anything, and it's not the right mind-set.   
 Obviously I could only have a practise round yesterday in Carnoustie, and I could hit very few balls. I mean, I never played a practise round here this week, and you know, it's kind of difficult, but hopefully this is my bad day and I'll have three good rounds ahead of me.   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Not much to add to that. You know, it's just really tough to play after last week, but you know, I think it's good that we are here so that we get used again to the normal routine.   
  
  Q. The format helps a bit here, a bit more fun and relaxed, isn't it?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Well, I don't know, because I think we almost are too relaxed. The fact that an amateur is playing with us makes it even more relaxed. It's not easy, but, yeah, it's nice, too, to play some friends and I think, you know, probably day by day we will get more into the tournament set of mind.  
  
  Q. What's the main goal for the rest of the season?   
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I don't know, for me, it's probably to win a tournament and the goal is The Race to Dubai, so finish as high as possible in The Race to Dubai.  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: The same. I think it would be nice to get another win before the end of the year and hopefully we'll be finishing in the Top-10, Top-5 Race to Dubai right now. I'm close to the 5th spot now so it would be nice to finish in the top 5.  
  
  Q. And defend the World Cup, but you're not.   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: We are defending it next year. We are already getting ready for it. We are practising and making sure that we'll be up for it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT