THE RYDER CUP
October 2, 2010
Martin Kaymer
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about the momentum swing for the Europeans.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: All of the matches are up, and we needed it, especially after that early afternoon, we were struggling a little bit to finish it off, so it gives motivation for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Talk about the strength of character and form of Lee Westwood.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Lee Westwood, he played unbelievably. He played so solid, especially after his injury, he couldn't play golf for a while. And mentally, he's so strong. He made important, great shots in the foursomes that we played. I mean, I don't know what to say. For me, he's No. 1 in the world at the moment.   
  
  Q. He was on fire, wasn't he.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: He was on fire.   
  
  Q. How has Colin Montgomerie been as a captain? He was looking very tense in the press room.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: Of course. We were leading all of our matches in the foursomes and then we couldn't finish it off, so of course everybody was a little disappointed.  
  
  Q. What sort of captain is he?   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think he's a very respectful captain, and he talks very serious to us. I feel a little bit like a tutor, like a teacher in school. But I like it.   
  
  Q. Is he coping all right with it? It's very stressful. I'm sure he would rather be out there playing.   
 MARTIN KAYMER: I think so, too. Sometimes it's more difficult to watch than to play, so I can imagine how he feels.   
  
  Q. Nice to get a break?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think it's nice to get a little break, even if momentum is definitely on our side. We were playing well and hopefully we play even better tomorrow.   
 As I said, momentum was with us this afternoon and we just have to keep it going tomorrow.   
  
  Q. How frustrating is it to come off the course at that point?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: It's fine, it was good to halve the last with Francesco's chip-in. I think it was a great afternoon.   
 The crowds were great and supporting us all the way through this afternoon and it's going to be even more fun tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT