JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 29, 2010
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Many congratulations, Johnnie Walker Championship at Gleneagles winner. You certainly made it interesting. Tell us about those closing holes for a start.  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, playing on 16, I thought I was one behind, and I had two par 5s to play and thought that I still had a chance to win the tournament if I make two birdies in the last three, so I was playing very well and I knew I could do it and when I got on to the 16th tee and hit a great second shot -- I thought I had a great possibility.   
 So put a lot of pressure on me, so I knew I had to do two birdies on the last three at least to tie him and I had a big putt on 16, I think that was very important. And I hit it safely on the green on 17, and just before I hit the putt, Colin, my caddie told me I was owed a putt, because I hit a lot of good putts today that didn't go in, and he was right, because it went right in the divot and it was a difficult putt, as well.   
 And then playing the last, I played a nice second shot, and made a great chip, again. Colin, he is the winner this week, not me, because we spent probably more time this week on the chipping than in the last six months. I started working with him three tournaments ago, at Bridgestone in the States, and I think he's the best caddie. I had a good caddie before, but I think Colin is something special.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Given the situation and the pressure you're under, it's obviously a very special victory for you.  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, absolutely. I think that I had to impress Colin in some ways and honestly, I didn't know what else I could do after the last three holes. I hope it's enough. I don't know yet. I'm just hoping.   
  
  Q. We went near this question yesterday, but surely there's no way he can leave you out now, is there?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I don't know. I'm not in Monty's mind. I haven't talked to him. I haven't seen him. So I have no idea to be honest. I think I would be very upset, also, because of the way I finished the tournament, I think being two behind with three holes to go and being able to birdie the last three to win by one, I think it's a good win and it's a good way of winning, and hopefully it's enough.   
  
  Q. You have absolutely no idea?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: No.   
  
  Q. Were you thinking Ryder Cup coming down the stretch or were you just thinking, winning the tournament?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Well, I had a plan yesterday, I said, let's just think about the tournament, think about The Race to Dubai, think about World Rankings, anything but The Ryder Cup. And then I think on the back nine, I don't know exactly where I started, I think maybe if I finish top three, it will be enough, or maybe not.   
 Again, on the last, after I hit a second shot on 16 and just focussed on winning the tournament.   
  
  Q. Would you just reflect a little bit on this amazing journey you've been on in the last 12 months and where you were this time last year?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: This time last year I was in home preparing to go play in Crans, I had an invite for next week. It was probably the start of an unbelievable run of tournaments, because I think I was playing well on The Challenge Tour, I was leading The Challenge Tour by a little bit, and then I had not played a Tour event for like three or four months since The Italian Open, and I was lucky enough to get an invite to Crans. And I had a decent week there, I think I finished like 20th or 25th, and that was big for the confidence, because, you know, I was playing well on The Challenge Tour, but I didn't know where I was compared to the guys on The European Tour.   
 I mean, it wasn't a great finish, but to finish top 20, I knew this year, that I could play well and I didn't imagine I could play this well and imagine I was so close to getting on The Ryder Cup.   
 Obviously it's been a great 12 months and hopefully I keep improving.   
  
  Q. If Monty does pick you, or when he picks you, what will it mean to you to tee it up in The Ryder Cup, but to tee it up alongside your brother?  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: It would be a dream come true, because we always dreamt about playing majors, about playing in an event together, being in the final group like we were in Loch Lomond and like we were today. I think playing in The Ryder Cup is the best golf you can play in as a couple, and hopefully it will be great.   
  
  Q. Is that the best you've ever felt on a golf course --  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I was feeling good, but I mean, I've been playing well many, many times this year. I've been probably playing as good as this, I don't know, maybe, eight to ten weeks, but obviously to win a tournament, you need to hole the putts at the right time. You need to get lucky and obviously I'm very proud of today, and especially of the last three holes.   
  
  Q. Did you and Francesco talk about The Ryder Cup during the round today?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, during the round, we didn't talk about it. I just told him when we finished, when we shook hands on the 18th green, I just told him, "I hope to play with you in Wales." That was it. We can't really talk about The Ryder Cup.  
  
  Q. How do you rate this against the Loch Lomond win?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: It's always great to win in Scotland, and Loch Lomond was my breakthrough on Tour, even if I had good finishes before, but it's always different to win. And then to win the second one this week, again, in Scotland, under pressure trying to get into The Ryder Cup Team, I think it's as good as Loch Lomond.   
  
  Q. If for some reason you're not picked to Celtic Manor, will you still be there to support Francesco?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I don't know right now. I think if I don't make the team, I'm probably going to stay home and then just watch on TV. I think I can watch better on TV than being there. So I think if I don't make the team, I think -- obviously I hope they win the Cup back and I will just stay home and watch it on TV.   
  
  Q. Again, if you can cast your mind back a year, where would you have been happy to be by this time?  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: By this time I would have been happy to -- just to have enough money to keep the card, a year ago.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Edoardo, many congratulations, well done.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT