JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 28, 2010
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thoughts on the day EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think I played a very good round of golf today. I hit every fairway and I hit a lot of greens and I had a lot of chances for birdie. It was a very good, solid round, and I've been playing very well all week to be honest. 
 So I really like my chances for tomorrow. Today I've been putting better than the first two days, so I hope to shoot a good number tomorrow. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: No surprise to see yourself or Francesco up there, as well, quite an experience tomorrow.
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, I hope we can do the same as Loch Lomond, hopefully with the same result. But if he wins and I finish second, that's fine. 

 Q. If it comes to the 18th hole tomorrow, and you and Francesco are level, would you be expecting Francesco to stick his tee shot in the rough for you? (Laughter). 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, absolutely not, because I think even if I win, I won't make the team automatically, so it won't really change anything I think if I finish first or second behind Francesco. So probably I would birdie the last to win. 

 Q. Have you spoken much to Monty this week? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, I only saw him a couple of days ago on the putting week and he said good luck. 

 Q. And do you think he will pick you if you win tomorrow?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Well, I would be very upset if I win and he doesn't pick me, because I think even if I don't win, I'm probably one of the candidates, so I think if you win the last event, and you don't get picked, there's something seriously wrong. 

 Q. A lot of attention on players in America this week; do you feel you should have gone to either the Irish or last week? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, I think I had scheduled to play as many events as I could on The European Tour. I played The Italian Open and I skipped the TPC. It would have been impossible to play six, seven weeks in a row, with travelling across the pond. 
 So I think even if I had gone last week, I would have been probably too tired to perform well, and I think it was a good decision to take a week off and then try to play well here. 

 Q. Is this the biggest round of your life tomorrow? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, I don't think so. I think it's an important round but still it's another tournament. If I had won Loch Lomond it would be bigger. But already having won once, I've been winning a lot of tournaments, and even on The Challenge Tour, I know how to win and I won in Japan and I won the World Cup. 
 So I think as I said before, if I finish first or second, it's not going to make much difference for The Ryder Cup. I think I've been very consistent this season, and it's not one round tomorrow that's going to make the difference. 

 Q. You said you asked the question, should he pick you -- in your heart of hearts, do you think he will pick you? And you also said there would be something seriously wrong; what would be wrong? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I don't know, but I think if you have a guy, one of the candidates for the six winning the last event, I think it's not automatically, but I think it's a well-deserved pick. This is what I meant. 
 So I think, again, even if I finish first or second, as I said, it's not making a lot of difference. I think I've had six top fives this year already, and I had a win; and tomorrow could be the seventh top five of the year, and I don't think some of the other guys or some of the other candidates have so many top fives. 

 Q. In your heart of heart's, do you think he'll pick you? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, I expect if I finish top three tomorrow, I would say he's going to pick me, but that's my thoughts. I haven't spoken to him. So I'm just guessing. This is the way I see things. 

 Q. Can you explain the chemistry that exists between brothers playing in a match-play situation? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Well, I think we are very close to each other, so we know each other very well. If we will be playing The Ryder Cup together, we absolutely know what to expect from the other in every moment of the matches. 
 So I think it's just a question of knowing each other very well, and we have been playing golf together since we were five years old. So we exactly know what the other is thinking and what he's going to do. 

 Q. We know about the World Cup. What else have you played together? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: We played many, many times amateur team events for Italy. We played the World Amateur Team Championship once and we finished I think fourth, which was the best result for Italy. And then we played many times European Team Championship and St. Andrews Trophy, Jacques Léglise Trophy. So there's been many, many times and played the World Cup I think three, four times. 

 Q. You don't know your match-play record as a pair? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: As a pair, no. But I remember we -- to be honest, I cannot think of one time that we lost together but maybe I'm wrong. 

 Q. Do you feel that if the three picks come from the four players in America, and you did play well here, do you think it's unfair to players that they didn't come back --
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, I don't think it would be unfair. It would just be Monty's decision and he will have to cope with him and I think it's only his decision. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Edoardo, thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT