JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 27, 2010
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Level par for the day through 12 holes, in your quest to win this tournament and impress the captain, how good is 4-under for the last six?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think it's massively important, because after 12 holes, I was not going in that direction. I just had a couple of bogeys on 10 and 12 from just off the green. I was putting poorly, so things were not looking good. I was actually afraid of making the cut. 
 So I just talked to Colin, he is the guy caddying, and he said, let's just try to finish 5-under, and I managed to finish 6-under. So I'm very happy with the last six holes.

 Q. How much pressure do you feel to win? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: A lot. I think the way I've been playing this year, I'm probably in his mind -- not for a pick, but he knows I'm going to be close for a pick. I think this week he will feel a lot of pressure.

 Q. We have asked an awful lot of players who they would pick, and the majority say you; they feel that you have done enough well and that you have done well for The European Tour. What does it mean to get that sort of support for your peers? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: It's great. I think it's great that they show their support to me. And hopefully it will be enough not what I did this year, and hopefully I can play a great weekend and almost play my way into the team. 
 I had a very steady season this year, I only missed two putts, and I had a lot of Top-10s. I finished second in America, as well. 
 So it's been a great season, and even if Colin at the end of the day, he doesn't pick me, then it will be bad luck, because I think there have been a lot of good players, great players, playing great this year. 
 So it's going to be the most difficult Ryder Cup Team to make. 

 Q. Your brother made it. How proud of him are you? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: He's a great player. I've always been telling him he's one of the best-ball strikers I've ever seen. I think the day he starts to hole a few more putts, he'll be winning almost every other week. He's going to be a great asset for the team because he's very easy to play with, Francesco. He's very steady and he's a great, great ball-striker. Maybe sometimes he doesn't putt great but I think in foursomes and fourballs, if you have a partner that hits it down the middle every time, that's the best partner you can have. 

 Q. Do you fancy your chances here this weekend? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think so. I'm playing very well. All of the bogeys today were from off the green, stupid bogeys, really. 
 So I think if I can keep playing this way and hole a few more putts and get rid of a couple of stupid bogeys I've been making, I think I fancy my chances. I'm only three off the lead now, and there's a lot of birdie chances on this course. I like the course, and the greens will be better. So I really like my chances.  
 Q. Do you feel it's you versus four players over in America now as far as it goes for the wild card? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, probably, probably. I think I'm still trailing them, because I think experience is probably going to be a big factor on Sunday night. All I'm trying to do is just to play well and impress Colin and hopefully I can do it with a good finish here. 
 I think the only thing I have on my side is that Francesco is on the team and we play very well together. So I hope Monty realises that and I promise we won't lose a point with Francesco. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT