THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2010
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SCOTT CROCKETT: Many congratulations on a truly fantastic afternoon's golf. You must be delighted; it was truly spectacular stuff at times.
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think I played great golf today. Both Darren and I played great. I holed a few more putts than he did but I think it was a great day of golf and we enjoyed it. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Give us a sense of conditions, pretty good most of the day, and difficult towards the end; it didn't seem to affect you, the scoring.
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, it was a great day. The wind wasn't as strong as yesterday, it wasn't even close to be honest and despite the rain on the last, two, three holes, it was playing a lot easier than yesterday when it was playing longer probably because it was very damp and humid. I think I hit the ball great today, so I can't complain about anything.
 SCOTT CROCKETT: It was a great head-to-head with Darren, you were both spurring each oath on and obviously you'll have that tomorrow with your brother thrown into the mix; that will be something to savour, won't it.
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, absolutely, I think it's going to be great to have Francesco alongside me tomorrow and hopefully he can make some birdies early on to be in the mix, as well. 

 Q. As professional golfers, you would have the rivalry there, and that you would have as brothers, but will it also help you having him in there, do you think, since you're such great friends? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think it will probably help me tomorrow to have alongside Francesco, but I think each of us will play his own game tomorrow and hopefully, as I said, Francesco would make a few birdies to have a chance to win the tournament, as well, and that would be fantastic. 

 Q. How nervous were you on the final day of the U.S. Amateur and do you expect to be more nervous tomorrow?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I wasn't too nervous on the final day of the U.S. Amateur to be honest, because the worst day regarding pressure was the semifinal probably, because if you in semi, you are the in Masters and you are in the U.S. Open. So the final, I just enjoyed myself and played great obviously but I didn't have a lot of pressure. 
 I think tomorrow is going to be the same again because I have got nothing to lose really. I have a one-shot lead, which is nothing, and I'm playing against Darren, which is one of the best players, all-time, of The European Tour.
 So it's kind of a situation where I have, as I said, nothing to lose and everything to gain. If I play well, it will be a great day and if I don't win the tournament, still, it's going to be a good week, anyway and congratulations to Darren or to Francesco or to whoever else wins it tomorrow. 

 Q. When is the last time you and Francesco fell out, and did it happen on a golf course? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I don't think it ever happened on a golf course. To be honest, I don't remember. It might have been a few times but to be honest, I don't remember. We are very close to each other. 

 Q. Will there be any element of you and him ganging up on Darren tomorrow hoping that one of you comes through and wins? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I just hope that Francesco gets off to a good start so he can get in the mix. To be coming down the last few holes with both Francesco and I both having a chance to win the tournament and Darren obviously, I think would be fantastic. 

 Q. You say "nothing to lose," but it's a big day for Ryder Cup, isn't it?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, but still, I have nothing to lose because I didn't expect to make The Ryder Cup Team in the beginning of the year. I don't expect to make The Ryder Cup Team now. 
 So as I said, I really think that I have nothing to lose tomorrow, and I just hope to enjoy myself with Darren and Francesco like Darren and I did today and whoever plays best tomorrow will win the tournament. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Edoardo, thank you very much. Good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT