THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 9, 2010
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Edoardo, thanks for joining us 69 today in some pretty brutal conditions. Give us your assessment of it.
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think 69 today is probably better than 66 yesterday, because this afternoon, the wind was very strong. It was swirling a lot in the trees, so it was playing very, very difficult. I think very few guys broke par in the afternoon so I'm very happy with my 69 today. 

 Q. If you played with your brother and beat him, would he be cooking you dinner?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Maybe! It would be nice to play with him, not tomorrow, because we won't be paired together tomorrow but maybe Sunday, we have not played together in the last round of a tournament. We are very close to each other and keep playing well and be there on Sunday afternoon. 

 Q. Did you see that Darren Clarke had posted 10-under before you set out, and if that was the case, what did you think about the target that he had set?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Obviously Darren played very, very well, because to shoot 10-under par I think you have to play very, very well around Loch Lomond. He's a great player and it will be difficult to overtake him over the last two days. 
 I'm playing well and I like my chances, and we'll see what happened.

 Q. Apart from the World Cup, how many times have you played with Francesco in a tournament, and what is the record between you?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: We were paired together in the Dunhill Links four years ago for the first three rounds, but none of us made the cut, so it wasn't a good display of golf unfortunately. I think that was the only time we played together in a tournament. We played the World Cup every time together and the qualifying for the World Cup, that was it. 
 We played together once in Spain in 2000 or 2002, so almost ten years ago. It was a match-play, I think a quarterfinal match that we had to play against each other and I won at the 21st, if I remember, I won at the 21st, and we made a lot of birdies between the two of us. It was good fun. 

 Q. What tournament? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Spanish Amateur I think.

 Q. How was the course playing today? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: The course I think is fantastic, despite the rain, the fairways are soft but you never get mud on the ball. So fairways are playing nice. The greens are a little about the soft obviously, but they were holding nicely this afternoon despite the rain this morning. Overall I think the course was great and it was just playing difficult because of the wind. 

 Q. Where were you hitting noticeably longer clubs into holes than you were on Thursday?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Well, like No. 2 today, I hit a great drive and I hit 4-iron second shot, but the drive was seriously good. I mean, the guys playing with me were hitting 3-wood and rescue. So the second hole was long today.
 Then again, the 10th hole was quite long. I hit a good drive into the wind and I think I had a 6-iron, when yesterday with no wind, it would have been probably driver and 7- or 8-iron, and 13 was unreachable today, the par 5. 
 So I think it was playing definitely longer. It was more difficult with the wind was across, because you never know whether it was across and helping or across and into you, because it was really difficult to judgment the wind.

 Q. When you and Francesco are together at nighttime, do you try to not talk about golf too much or is it difficult?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: It's just normal conversation. We talk a little bit about golf, a little bit about the World Cup, a little bit about something else. So it's just a normal conversation. We don't try not to talk about golf. 

 Q. What about Italy in the World Cup? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: We talk more about Spain. It's been disappointing, but I think after winning the World Cup, it's obviously difficult to repeat yourself. Our expectations weren't very high for this year, World Cup. We expected to get better, to get at least through the group, but once you don't win, it's okay. 

 Q. So you are only World champions in golf, not football any more?
EDOARDO MOLINARI: Not yet. The final is in two days' time. So we are still world champions for the next two days (laughter). 

 Q. Have you ever both been in the top five of a big event going into the weekend? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, I think it's the first time in a regular event that both of us are in the Top-10 or even Top 15, because it's happened many times this year that Francesco was playing well and I was playing rubbish and the next week was the other way around. 
 So I think it's definitely the first time, also, in a regular event that we are both in the top five or ten. 

 Q. Are you competitive with Francesco; if he was to win on Sunday, would he be rub your nose it in it? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, it's okay. If one of us was going to win on Sunday, I think we are going to be happy anyway. So we have got double the chances to be happy on Sunday. We are competitive with each other, but we are very close to each other at the same time. So we are very happy for the other guy when he plays well, and, we are very close to each other and I hope Francesco plays well and I hope I will play well. 

 Q. Do you pool your winnings?
EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, unfortunately not, because Francesco has been playing on the Tour for five years so I'd be a much richer man than I am now! (Laughter)
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Edoardo, thank you very much. Good luck for the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT