THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 8, 2010
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Tell us about your 66.  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think my putting was working very well, was very good today, and I think the key today was all of the shots was in play and I could make pars or even birdies sometimes, and it was a good putting round.  
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Is this a golf course that suits your game?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Absolutely. I think last week it's a course where I never play well, so this week is a course, even if I never had a good finish here, I really like the course, the greens, the way the course plays, so at the beginning of the week I felt very comfortable.   
  
  Q. There's been a lot of talk in the build-up to this tournament about the quality of the greens because of the damage suffered in the winter; were you surprised how well they did play today?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think absolutely, because when you hear people talking about how bad the greens are and you turn up here, I think they are exactly the same as they were last year or two years ago. So apart from the three greens that they had to returf, three or four greens, they maybe are a little bit slower but they are running nicely.  
 The others, I think they are maybe a fraction slower than the year before, but they are very nice I think.   
  
  Q. How many times have you played in Scotland, and how do you enjoy golf in Scotland?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I've played in Scotland many, many times as an amateur and I've played as a professional, I've played the Open twice as an amateur, one time in Scotland, and I really like it, especially next week -- this week and next week are both great weeks I think, and with the open being at St. Andrews, I think it's probably the best major to play in. So I've always enjoyed playing here and I like when it's windy like it was today, especially on the links course like it will be next week.  
  
  Q. And Challenge Tour events in Scotland?  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Oh, yes, you're right. I played The Challenge Tour event last year at Aviemore, and I finished second there. I was leading going into the final round and I finished second.  
  
  Q. That was the end of the beginning of your very, very good run.   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think from that tournament on, I finished second or first almost every other week last year. So that was the start of my new career, if you want to call it like that. I enjoy playing in Scotland every time. I think as long as it doesn't rain, even if it's a little bit cold or a little bit windy, I'm fine and I really enjoy it.  
  
  Q. Apart from winning and going on this week and next week, there's a lot at stake, how does it feel, the idea of perhaps you and Francesco could he being the first brothers to play in The Ryder Cup together?  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think it would be fantastic but to be honest, I think it's going to be very difficult for me to make The Ryder Cup Team this year. I think Francesco is probably going to make it because he's very steady, he had a good week last week, he's probably going to have a couple more good finishes from here to Gleneagles. So I think it he's definitely going to make it and he deserves it, because he's been probably one of the steadiest players in the Europe for the last two years.   
 I think I'm a little bit far behind now, and even at the beginning of the year, I never really expected to make The Ryder Cup Team. It's the thing that if it happens, because I play extremely well this week or next week, then great, but if not, I've got a lot of time to make it and obviously one day we would love to be on the same Ryder Cup Team with Francesco.   
  
  Q. Just going back to that, you've played well today, Francesco played well last week; that's a good response, to it, isn't it?  
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think we were talking in Tuesday when we had a practise round together that it looks like we cannot play well in the same weeks. One week, he is contending and the next one I am playing well, and then he misses a cut, I make the cut at the U.S. Open and then he comes out in France and plays well.   
 So it's been like that all year so far. We had probably between us I would say a dozen Top-10 finishes or Top-5 finishes and none of them were on the same week. It's obviously been one week Francesco has been playing well and I'm playing well week after and vice versa. It's been good fun, our family is enjoying it because always one of the two brothers on TV and playing well.   
  
  Q. You have to cure that when you both make The Ryder Cup Team, you have to solve that.   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, but we did very well at the World Cup last year. So I think when we play together in the same group, we can play well.   
  
  Q. What do you think you have to do to get into The Ryder Cup? What do you think you have to do in the course of the next six weeks?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Regarding my game or regarding --  
  
  Q. Do you feel you have to have a win somewhere?   
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: A win is definitely going to help me because I'm going to play this week and then the Open and then I'm probably going to go Bridgestone, PGA and then if I still have a chance, I'll go to Gleneagles.   
 So I definitely need to win one of these five or maybe -- I mean, if it's a Top-5 at the PGA or top three next week, I'll need a very, very good week. I won't get in The Ryder Cup by making Top-10s for sure. I need to finish probably top three at least once and another time.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thanks for joining us.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT