ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 29, 2010
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You want to start off by talking, this is your third event on the PGA TOUR as a professional, you played some as an amateur and already making a big impression here in the U.S.; can you just talk about your thoughts going into the Masters and how you're playing right now?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think I'm playing well at the moment, obviously. I wasn't playing well at Doral or at the Match Play, so that's why I didn't finish well in those events. 
 I worked a little bit on my swing last week in Atlanta, and definitely worked out well, because this week, I hit the ball great, and it's a very difficult course. It was windy, as well and it's playing long. 
 So finishing second is great for my confidence going into the Masters, and also knowing that I'm able to perform well in the States, as well. 

 Q. You topped your brother, I think he finished fourth overseas this week; your thoughts on you guys won the World Cup last year and you're ready for bigger things?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think last year the World Cup was probably the first big win we had, because Francesco had won The Italian Open and I had won the Dunlop Phoenix the week before in Japan, so the World Cup was definitely the biggest win we ever had, and hopefully this year, we'll be able to get a few wins. 

 Q. It seemed like maybe of all of the players that were left on the course, you might have had the best read on the greens, making the long one; how were the greens today?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think they were fantastic. Really, I was surprised when I went out of the locker room this morning. I went to hit a few putts, and things were dry already. They were firm. They were as fast as yesterday. 
 So we didn't have any problems, and I thought the greens were exactly the same as yesterday, and also because no one walked on the greens this morning. Yesterday, the greens were not as perfect as this morning. I think this morning they were just pure. 

 Q. Are you planning to play next week in Houston?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, I'm not playing next week. I'm having a week off and then play the Masters and back home. 

 Q. If you have unlimited played this year, would your schedule change at all?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I don't think so, because I'm based in Europe, I live in Europe and it would be very difficult for me to come over here full-time. But, obviously, I'd like to play a little bit more here, because I think the courses are great and I mean, everything is better here I think. The European Tour is great, but I think over here is a step forward getting you more ready for the majors. 

 Q. Is that a down-the-road goal to come and play this tour full-time? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I don't know, really. I have to think about it, because last year I was playing Challenge Tour, so this never entered my mind. I like it over here. I think the weather is better and the courses are better, and you know, I'll think about it. 

 Q. You mentioned you played The Challenge Tour last year; you've obviously made some huge progress in a short period of time. Has anything changed about your game that has really taken you to this next level?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think I worked very hard on my swing last winter, between 2008 and 2009. I've always been a big -- I've always hit the ball big-time right-to-left, and now I'm hitting it more straight, if anything, it's going left-to-right. So I think that changed in my golf. 

 Q. A little bit more control off the tee?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yes, definitely, especially my misses. So I'm better both when I'm playing well and when I'm not playing well. 

 Q. Is there something that you can look back to, you've ascended pretty quickly upwards in your career. Is there something that you can look back on?
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think it's going better because I mean last year I played great on The Challenge Tour, and I was at the top of the Money List and I won three times there, as well. And a couple of weeks later I went to Japan and beat Robert Karlsson in a playoff to win the Dunlop Phoenix, which is the biggest event on the Japan Tour, and the next event was the World Cup which was even bigger.
 During the winter, I just tried to keep it going. I went to play South Africa and Dubai, which I finished fourth in Dubai, which was again, great, because of all of the biggest players from Europe were playing there, even Paul Casey, or those who play in the States generally. 
 So finishing fourth there was another step up. And obviously this week, it's one of the biggest. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT