ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2018
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Edoardo, bogey-free round today.  How was that for you?
EDOARDO MOLINARI: It was a great round.  I hit the ball very well.  I putted well finally, which this year has been a bit of a weakness.  All in all it was a good, solid round.
Q. Plus one yesterday at Carnoustie, but was that a good score under the conditions?
EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think it was quite a good score, especially we teed off 10 and I got off to a bad start.  I was 1-over after nine, which is the easier nine with that wind, and then I managed to shoot level par on the front nine, which is mostly into the wind off the left, which is always difficult at Carnoustie.
Q. Looking forward to Kingsbarns tomorrow?
EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, Kingsbarns, it's usually the most easier to get a good score on, and hopefully I can play as well as I did today and make some putts and shoot a good number that gives me a good chance on Sunday.
Q. Got to go to your brother now.  What a performance last week.  How good was that?
EDOARDO MOLINARI: It was unbelievable.  I mean, I'm looking forward to seeing him next week and spend some time together, hopefully have dinner one night.  I want to know, you know, from inside, how he felt because looking on TV it was absolutely unreal.
Q. Have you ever seen him that emotional before?
EDOARDO MOLINARI: A few times but not many.  I think, you know, Ryder Cup is always special.  Because it's a team event, the emotions tend to come out a bit more.  For someone as low key and reserved as Francesco, I think it was some big celebrations.
Q. Have you spoken to him?
EDOARDO MOLINARI: I just texted him but he hasn't called me and I didn't want to bother him.  Hopefully I'll see him next week and we will have some time together.
Q. Were you at home watching?
EDOARDO MOLINARI: I was at home watching on TV.
Q. What was the sort of Italian celebration?  What was the reaction of Italy?
EDOARDO MOLINARI: It was as big as him in The Open, I would say, especially the fact that he won five points.  He got a lot of attention on the media, front page of all the main newspapers.  Obviously it was a massive news, especially coming after The Open.  It's always difficult to follow up on that, but he was able to have another fantastic performance.
Q. Is he as big as he's ever been there?  Is he a kind of legend in Italy now or do they look at it like that?
EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think it's growing.  He's becoming bigger and bigger.  But I think golf is still a small-ish sport, so I think unfortunately for him, he needs to do more to grow the sport.
Q. Do you think he's changed?
EDOARDO MOLINARI: No, not one bit.  I'm sure he's exactly the same as before.  He'll be as low key as you can imagine next week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT