OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 27, 2009
Edoardo Molinari
Francesco Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Today you played very well. 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think both of us played really well today. 

 Q. Why so up and down on the back nine? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: It was impossible to play 18 holes without missing a shot. We missed a couple of putts and it was still a very good round even on the back nine. 

 Q. Do you have any special strategy for tomorrow or keep the same as Thursday? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Still the same attitude to try to birdie every hole and see what happens. 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think tomorrow it's important to make a lot of birdies because the format is easier but I think we just need to play well both of us and shoot a good score. 

 Q. 6-under par 66 in fourball, what makes you more confident, 64 first round in best-ball or 66 today? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: I think they were both really good rounds yesterday. Edoardo played really well and I wasn't quite alternate his level but today we both played great so hopefully we can continue. 

 Q. Currently in third position, four back, that's a pretty good position so far. Do you guys feel confident that you can come through from the weekend and possibly win? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Yeah, I think we are both playing very well and we are usually very good at foursome. It looked like today we were going to shoot a very low score. In the end it didn't happen but hopefully we can save our best for Sunday.

 Q. What do you consider a low score for foursome? 66 is pretty good. 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think we missed a few chances on the back nine. We were a little unlucky on 11. I hit a cart path on the fly with a driver and we lost our ball. 
 So I think we still lost two or three shots today but obviously we are quite pleased with 66 in foursome.

 Q. What did you feel like yesterday after Ireland went nuts and shot 58, you found yourself quite a bit back. Did you feel like you were too far back to press today or do you feel like there was plenty of time left? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: Obviously it depends on how Rory and Graeme do, because they are great players. 
So if they keep playing at that rhythm, it's hard to catch them, but we knew that it was hard to shoot two 58s in a row. So I think the tournament is still a long one. It's just halfway, so we still have a good chance. 

 Q. Following up on that, because of the good play of Ireland, what do you feel like you need to do to stay in touch tomorrow to have a chance to win on Sunday? 
 FRANCESCO MOLINARI: If we keep shooting 64s and 65s and 63s, we won't be too far back and if they shoot 58 again, they played the best golf, so we will see what happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT