TROPHEE HASSAN II
April 18, 2018
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's 12 months on since your victory here.  How does it feel to be back defending?  
EDOARDO MOLINARI: It feels great.  I obviously have great memories from this place and I remember most of the shots, especially those on Sunday, and it's fantastic to be back here.   
 Q.  Just talk us through that eagle putt on 18 to get you into that playoff.  It must have been a really exciting moment for you?  
EDOARDO MOLINARI: Absolutely.  It was fantastic, especially what I had gone through in the previous years.  I hit a really good second shot.  I think the second shot was really the shot of the week, because it was a difficult flag behind the bunker and to hit it to 25 feet with a rescue was as good as I could do.   
And then it was a downhill, little bit from left-to-right, double breaker, left-to-right in the beginning and right-to-left in the end, and it went right in the middle, which was obviously very pleasing.   
 Q.  Obviously great emotion when you sank the winning putt.  Just talk us through how you felt at that moment.  
EDOARDO MOLINARI: Well, it was fantastic.  As I said, I gone through a couple of bad years, a couple of injuries in the wrist.  At some point, you think you can never come back to that kind of level, and it was great.   
Last year wasn't particularly good apart from the win, but I'm starting to play better, so hopefully I can have a good week this week and try and defend it.   
 Q.  What's the key to success around this golf course?  
EDOARDO MOLINARI: I think you have to keep it in play off the tee, hit lots of greens because the golf course is very difficult.  So the winning score is never too much under par.  You just want to have a chance coming into Sunday, and as long as you shoot under par every day, you're looking good.   
 Q.  And just finally, mixed results as you alluded to since then.  How do you feel your game is at the moment?  
EDOARDO MOLINARI: As I said, I'm playing much better.  I feel like especially in practice rounds and Pro-Am days, I hit the ball as good as I ever have probably.   
So I feel like this season would be a good season.  I've been much more consistent.  Just a matter of being patient now and hoping that sooner or later, the game will come in tournament, as well, but I feel like I'm really close.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT