TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORT
November 13, 2014
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How good a first round is that?   
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   It was very good I think.   I think there are some low scores out there but it's quite difficult to make a lot of birdies.   You have to keep the ball in play off the tee, because the rough is up and the greens are quite firm.   I managed to do that quite well today and made a few putts.   
   
 Q.   You looked like you really got it going in one particular stretch there with birdie after birdie after birdie?  
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I made a couple good putts on 2 and 3 from 20 feet, and I hit two really good tee shots at 1 and 4 so I could reach both par 5s in three.   
   
 Q.   I know it's a resort course but you've hinted it's tough in places, isn't it?  
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   Yeah, I think the setup is fantastic this year how they set it up, because it's not a long golf course, and they made the rough grow a little bit more than last year.   And the greens are firmer, as well, so if you play well, you can make a lot of birdies but bogey is just around the corner.  
   
 Q.   Did you have a sense of getting off to a good start knowing there might be some dodgier weather coming in?  
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   No, to be honest I never look at the weather forecast.   I just look at it in the morning and see what the day is, and I heard that there some weather coming in tomorrow because they moved the tee times, but we'll see tomorrow how it is and hope to shoot a good number.  
   
 Q.   You're leading Francesco in Race to Dubai points, and that has not happened in your pro career in finishing positions so far.   
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   Well, to be honest, we pay a little bit of attention.   There was a little bit of teasing and banter in practicing, and I mean, it's two very good weeks obviously so I guess whoever plays better these two weeks is going to finish in front.   But it doesn't matter Francesco or myself in front.   Just want to finish higher than where we are now and we'll see where we end up at the end of the season.   
   
 Q.   But you want to beat him, don't you?   
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   Yeah, but to be honest if I play well and he plays better, then I will be happier than both of us finishing down at the bottom and me finishing in front of him.   The main priority is we both play well and obviously if I be on top at the end of the season, I'll give him a little bit of stick over the Christmas table.  
   
 Q.   Do you use it as a kind of incentive?   
EDOARDO MOLINARI:   Definitely.   I think if you do it in a good way, it's always spurs you a little bit to play better and practice.   I never think never before it happened we were so close, so it will be sudden death and we will see who comes out on top.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT