HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 18, 2013
Richard H. Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You shot a 65 today.   Pretty happy?   Go through the round a bit.   
RICHARD LEE:   Yeah, I got off to a quick start.   I was 2-under after 3.   Middle of the round I made a silly bogey on 7.   Short excited myself.   So kind of slowed down there.   But came back with a nice birdie on 8 and I just kept telling myself, a lot of birdies out there and just keep it going.   Took a peek at the leaderboard on 8 and I saw guys were already at 13, 14, so I thought, okay, I need to start catching up.  
So on conditions like this, if you fall behind, it's almost impossible to catch up.   Guys are not going to come backward.   So today I told myself to get to double digits, did a little of that and more.   So that's great.   
Looking forward to tomorrow's round and keep doing what I've been doing.  
   
 Q.   You turned it on on the back, five birdies on the back nine, is that kind of after you saw the leaderboard?  
RICHARD LEE:   Yeah, I think it kind of helped my mindset get in more of an attack mode, just knowing that I didn't want to fall too far behind.   So for me it was, I think that helped to kind of get my mindset into attack mode rather than kind of just making pars.   And pars are not, pars are good, but it's not good out here.   So it was good and just really helped me attack today, just knowing that I'm trying to play catch up with other guys.  
   
 Q.   You're one off the lead now.   Do you like where you're at heading into Saturday?  
RICHARD LEE:   Yeah, I'm much better than nine holes ago, so nine holes ago I think I was like six, seven back, so it's much better than where I was and looking forward to the weekend.   
   
 Q.   So you're heading to La Quinta tomorrow.   Do you like that course?  
RICHARD LEE:   Yeah, I do.   It fits me because I grew up on kind of that style of golf course.   Tree lined, small greens, not very long, so it will be kind of like home coming for me back in the northwest.   So I'm looking forward to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT