JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
March 1, 2007
Richard H. Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Last time you were here you walked away with a big trophy (Thai Open in 2005)? 
 RICHARD LEE:  Yeah, good memories. Started really well and holed a few putts and played good. 

 Q.  Was it due to the fondness for the course? 
 RICHARD LEE:  Yeah, but the last few days at the range in New Zealand, I sort of worked on something and felt good and started hitting it well. I thought there was a chance it might go right today. I worked on my rhythm and a bit more focus on the ball and concentration. 

 Q.  Did you hit it close all day? 
 RICHARD LEE:  On the par 5s, I hit a bad drive on every hole. Hit a 3-wood on the 15th with my third and was lucky to make birdie with that. On 6, I hit a bad drive and ended up hitting a wedge onto the green and got a flier out of the rough and went over the back and had two chips and made an easy double. 

 Q.  One of your best rounds for a while? 
 RICHARD LEE:  Yeah, to be honest, I 've been playing pretty crappy. It's nice to put in a good round. 

 Q.  What's held you back since winning in Thailand? 
 RICHARD LEE:  I don't know. Just been playing bad. I can't put a finger to it. It's been very frustrating. I've been making a lot of doubles and today I made one again on the sixth. It's frustrating. Try to keep them off the card. I haven't played well in the co-sanctioned events last year, and this year and it's nice to get a good start. 

 Q.  Is this sort of round is something that you know that you're capable of shooting? 
 RICHARD LEE:  Oh yes definitely. When you're playing well, you are hitting it good, you have to make the putts. I wouldn't say I'm surprised but it's been a lot better lately. Once you start playing good and feeling better about your game, you always feel you have a chance. 

 Q.  You never had a chance to defend your Thai Open title or come back to Blue Canyon. When you saw the Johnnie Walker being put up on this course, did it give you a lift? 
 RICHARD LEE:  I have good memories of this course. When you like a course, it helps you play better. 
 I was in Auckland last week, hit a few balls at Remuera Golf Course and went on a putting machine with the local pro there (Steve Hinds). Had a look on that and sorted a couple of things out. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT