TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: CENTRAL FLORIDA v BAYLOR
December 28, 2013
Storm Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   What did you get to do last night?  
STORM JOHNSON:   A lot of people went to the pool at the resort, but I didn't do much.   10 feels like 12 or 11.   Exhausted.   Early morning the next morning.   I'm trying to get all the Zs I can.   
   
 Q.   When you decided to transfer to UCF summer of 2011, you knew they were a good program, did you sort of envision where this program might go in a couple years?  
STORM JOHNSON:   I didn't, man.   It's been a blessing to be here.   I knew the type of guys we had on our team.   I knew the type of people we had surrounding us.   I knew the potential high.   But I didn't know we would make it here.   
It's been a blessing.   I'm thankful for every opportunity.   
   
 Q.   You saw the talents that would surround you, like Bortles, talented receivers.   This summer pre‑season, when you saw the offense you had, did you think there was a chance, knowing if you won the conference...   
STORM JOHNSON:   Our first goal was to win the conference.   I think my team did an excellent job of working every day, not getting relaxed, not listening to the hype.   I felt like we kept at it.   We always came to work.   I'm proud of my team for that.   
   
 Q.   Did it sort of sink in a little bit more during the course of the season?   Was there a turning point where you realized it was closer to reality, that it was probably going to happen?  
STORM JOHNSON:   Just we kept the momentum going, having no lapse of weakness.   Keep powering and keep focusing on the bigger goals we had.   
Like I said, our coaches did a great job of keeping us on track.   Our captains, leaders on the team did a great job of doing the same.   I'm proud of my team, proud to be here.   
   
 Q.   What do you like about Blake as a quarterback?  
STORM JOHNSON:   Decision making.   I feel like he doesn't get scared under pressure.   That's another thing about Blake I like.   Talking to him about protection, going over things about the defense, he tells me things I can't see on film.   
He's an all‑around great guy.   He's a blessed quarterback, a good quarterback.   
   
 Q.   Do you ever ask him about the NFL or joke with him about it or anything?  
STORM JOHNSON:   I don't really.   I don't ask him.   Our focus right now is Baylor and winning the game.   
   
 Q.   What do you see from Baylor's defense?  
STORM JOHNSON:   They're a solid D.   Really, our main focus right now has been on us, getting better at what we have to get better at, making sure we keep our offense on the field, make sure we keep points on the board.   
   
 Q.   Where have you improved this season?   
STORM JOHNSON:   I think my pass protection, knowing the defenses, knowing the fronts, just the knowledge of the game, just the smarts I think I improved.   
It's a little bit more than running the ball as a runningback.   I wanted to get my knowledge of the football better.   I wanted to get everything that is not expected as a runningback, I wanted to get better.   My runningback coach helped me out tremendously on that.   Coach O'Leary has, too.   
   
 Q.   Was it the Louisville game that was the best?  
STORM JOHNSON:   I don't think I've shown my best work yet.   I think there's still better to come.   
There's always a way to get better.   
   
 Q.   On the big stage against Louisville that might have been your best game so far this season, do you think you're better on the bigger stage?  
STORM JOHNSON:   Do I think I'm better?   That's a trick question (laughter).   
I feel like I come to play for every game.   But the big games, I guess it's a little bit more stuff involved into it.   
   
 Q.   Does this game feel different to you, being here?  
STORM JOHNSON:   Yeah.   This is my first time to Arizona, first time to a BCS game.   It feels different.   
We still want to get the W, so can't get too excited.   
   
 Q.   Did you get to go home for that week after finals?  
STORM JOHNSON:   Yes, I did.  
   
 Q.   Was it exciting?  
STORM JOHNSON:   Very excited.   Talking about January1st.   That's what they were talking about.   Hope my people and everybody at home gets to see it and experience it like I do.   
This season has been a big blessing for everybody on the team.   We're really enjoying it.   
   
 Q.   Playing against the nation's top scorers, do you feel any added pressure as a runningback to keep them off the field?  
STORM JOHNSON:   I wouldn't say 'pressure'.   I would say we need to do our jobs, bring our A game, not have any lapses.   I feel like our team is going to be ready to play.   Our coaches will be sure of that.   It's going to be a good game.   
   
 Q.   Have you enjoyed your time in Arizona the last few days?  
STORM JOHNSON:   I have.   There's a lot of stuff.   I think they have four buses taking us through Scottsdale, showing us the city.   It's a beautiful city.   I'm just loving my time here, man.   Blessed to be here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT