MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 12, 2009
Lindsey Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you for coming in. You had a great round today right now, just talk about how you played today and how comfortable you are at Bulle Rock Golf Club.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah, I played really solid today. I probably made a soft bogey on 17, which was a little disappointing because it wasn't a difficult chip, and on 9, that was just unfortunate, I hit it great, rescue in, missed it out of the bunker and I didn't have a shot out of the bunker, so that was two bogeys today.   
 But I played really solid golf. I wouldn't complain. Golf course is great. I love the golf course, as I have played, just had good weeks here every year, so that's exciting. Especially being the last year to be in this position.   
 1, I hit a pitching wedge to about five feet.   
 3, I had a 6-iron about ten feet.   
 4, 7-iron to about 25 feet.   
 And then 9, I made the bogey, I was in the bunker on the right-hand side and chipped out and 2-putted. It was about 20 feet.   
 Then on 12, I hit a 5-iron to about 12 feet.   
 15, I hit a 60-degree on the par 5, a sand wedge to a foot.   
 On 16, I hit the sand wedge again to two feet and then on 17, I just missed the green left and I was in the first cut of rough. Again, it wasn't a difficult shot and I just missed about a 5-foot putt for par. Off the tee I had a rescue.   
  
  Q. You mentioned how happy you are to be in contention the last year of this tournament; could you talk about your history here and the friends you've made, and what it's going to be like to not have McDonald's involved anymore?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah, from the first onset, I started with housing; and they live right outside the golf course and they have become really great friends, almost like family. So every time I come back here, I feel like I'm coming home.   
 Again, the course, I really love the golf course. It's a lot of fun, some really tough holes and there are some birdieable holes. It plays well to me, because you don't have to be that long. It's just hitting the fairways and not getting too aggressive.   
 But yeah, it's sad to see it go, obviously because I've had some success here in the past.   
  
  Q. Is that a hole that sets up really favorably for you, and what are the holes you feel you can be most aggressive?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah, 16, I actually pulled that a little bit. I think it's the type of hole, it's probably a 3-wood today. I hit driver, because I've been hitting my driver so well, but that's -- I would say from 14, 15, 16, really good birdie holes; and 17, too, depending where the flag is. And 10, as well. 11, 12 and 13 are probably a really tough stretch, because they are just mentally and visually difficult, and playing long.   
 On the front nine, I would say that 1 through 4 are really birdieable, and there's probably one really tough hole for me, and that would be No. 5. That's a really long, tough, par 4.   
 But again, if you hit the fairways, really that's half the battle. I suppose in my major, it's half the battle, because the rough is -- forget about it. It's really tough.   
  
  Q. We speak with Katherine Hull, your former Pepperdine teammate, and she is right up there on the leaderboard with you. She was saying the competition college, the competition between you made you better. What's the competition and rivalry like now if there is one?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: There's not really, not for me, because now I've got 144, 143 other Katherine Hulls I play against.   
 There's not really a lot -- I'm just playing against the golf course and myself. It's really exciting, though, to see Kathryn playing well, and to an extent, it's encouraging for me, as well. Particularly if you're having bad weeks, and being an Aussie, too, it's good to see.   
  
  Q. If I checked it this correctly, it was fourth at Kraft Nabisco and third at Michelob this year, pretty tough golf courses; do you feel like something is coming together in the big events for you?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah, I tend to -- for some reason, I think I just focus better. I mean, I get in the little events and my head is a little bit all over the shot. I'm not as focused, which sometimes is the opposite; I like the challenge of majors, because it's a mental challenge as well as a physical challenge.   
 So I tend to -- it's exhausting, but I don't know, for some reason, I've tended to do well.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you all, very much. Lindsey, good luck on the weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT