MICHELOB ULTRA OPEN AT KINGSMILL
May 9, 2009
Lindsey Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JASON TAYLOR: Go through your score card.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Okay. Birdied the first, hit 9-iron for about 15 feet. Birdied the second with an 8-iron to about five feet. Sorry. I hit a 5-iron to eight feet.   
 No. 5, I birdied it, 7-iron to 10 feet.   
 Seven, I had a birdie, had a 52-degree wedge to about three feet. 11, I hit a 56-degree to about 20 feet, like a chip shot. 15, I hit a chip shot again to about 15 feet, and on 17 I hit an 8-iron to about 20 feet.   
  
  Q. And how do you feel today? Are you under the weather?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: A little bit, yeah. Hopefully I'll feel like this tomorrow. It's serving me well.   
 No, I feel better than yesterday actually. I didn't feel very well yesterday afternoon.  
  
  Q. There were people who thought that Lorena Ochoa was about to run away with this golf tournament and now suddenly we've got a brand new day, don't we?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yes.   
  
  Q. What's the mindset, you got 36 holes left? What do you tee off thinking Saturday morning in the position that you were in?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: This golf course is -- I wouldn't say playing easy, but it's very scorable. So you know that the average score in the top 20 is going to be 2 to 4-under, so my goal was to shoot a couple under, you know, just to make as many birdies as I could.   
 And fortunately I had seven birdies and no bogeys, so it was a flawless round; and it's Saturday, and you really, having seen Lorena at the top of the leaderboard, that kind of sets the wheels in motion the minute you get to the first tee because you know that you've gotta make birdies.  
  
  Q. So were you more aggressive than you would be normally?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: No. I don't think so. I don't think so. No, I'm pretty aggressive and usually gets me into a lot of trouble, but not so much.   
  
  Q. If you're getting into trouble, you're getting out of it. You've got one bogey in three rounds.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah. Yeah. I've been chipping and putting really well the last three days.   
  
  Q. When is the last time you either led going into Sunday or in the last group?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I can't remember. Could have been the McDonald's Championship last year. I've kind of been around in the last couple of groups anyway. Having led, this will be my first time I think.   
  
  Q. How do you think that will impact you from when you leave here till when you return tomorrow?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I think it's -- I'm excited. I feel like I'm ready. It's great to be in this position, and I've worked really hard on my game. So I've earned the right to be here. It's not like, oh, wow, I'm leading the tournament.   
 For me, my expectations are I expect to be here, but in saying that, it's also a new experience. So I'm actually excited. I love to go head to head with the best players in the world. You've got Cristie Kerr up there, Lorena, and if the course is scorable tomorrow, it should be a fun day of golf.  
  
  Q. I saw on TV you said "bring it on."   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Is this brash for you or is that --  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I was just having a bit of fun, to be honest. (Laughs).   
 I mean you gotta think every time you're in contention or leading a tournament, you're going to come out on top maybe three out of ten times, so you gotta go for it. It's kind of a privilege to be in this position. So bring it on. Absolutely. I love it.   
  
  Q. How much of what you've been able to do this week is just momentum kind of carrying over, and just the confidence you get from doing well and, like yesterday, just kind of hanging on, I guess?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I think a lot of it is my momentum. I've had some good events coming in. I had a month off, but I had some good finishes, so a lot of it is my momentum.   
 And you just have that little bit of confidence, especially when you do well, like Nabisco, I finished well, and I was in contention there as well. So that helped me a lot as far as confidence, so coming into this week and being in this position, it's a good feeling.  
  
  Q. When you've been in contention in the past, are there things that you've learned from that experience after it was over that you told yourself, okay, next time I know to not do this or do this?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah. Absolutely. Every time you learn, and I'm sure I'll learn things tomorrow, too, particularly getting ahead of yourself. It's a classic golf drama. You start planning the speech on the first hole, you know you're going to be in trouble.   
 So it's a matter of just playing each shot at a time, and that's like a cliche, but it really is. You've just gotta pace yourself and just stay in the moment, because like I said, it's a good leaderboard, so it's going to be a fun day of golf.   
  
  Q. You said that you've been focusing on your fitness?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah. I started working with a trainer in October last year.  
  
  Q. What specifically have you been working on?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Everything. Everything from cardio, core, a lot of core, a lot of pilates. Golf-specific exercises. I'm not into bench press or lifting heavy weights. Everything has to be golf specific, because I have to be honest. I hate it. It's not something that comes easy for me, but it's been the best thing for me.   
  
  Q. Do you work with a mental coach or anybody you'll call to kind of talk you through this evening or leading into tomorrow, or do you just kind of go with whatever your own experiences are?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah. I have a mental coach, but I'm not sure if we'll talk. Probably just -- you know, it's just another day of golf for me tomorrow.   
 I'm excited to be in this position.   
  
  Q. What have you learned about winning or how difficult it is to win out here?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Well, I haven't won out here yet, so I can't really answer that question, but I know what it's like to get in contention, and it really is -- it's a grind. It's hard work, but when you get in contention, you just don't know. You just give your best shot. It's going to be good. I'm excited. I'm ready to tee off now.   
 JASON TAYLOR: All right, Lindsey.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Cool. Thanks a lot.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Good luck tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Hope you feel crappy tomorrow.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: So do I. (Laughs).   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT