MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 6, 2008
Lindsey Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DANA GROSS-RHODE: : Thank you all for joining us and coming in. Lindsey, great round. 67, 68 for the two days. You're only one stroke behind Lorena Ochoa. How are you feeling right now.  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Just letting it sink in really. But pretty excited -- it's great. Great the fist two days and kind of nice to come into the weekend in this position. Especially when Lorena is leading the tournament.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: : We'll take questions for Lindsey then we'll go over the scorecard.  
  
  Q. When you see Lorena's leading on the board, what kind of effect does that have on you? Does it have a chilling effect? Do you not pay attention when she is playing?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I mean, she's obviously the person to beat. When you see her up there you know she's not going to make too many mistakes. It's rare of her to. So yeah if anything it -- it keeps me focused because I know I can't make too many mistakes I have to make birdies.  
  
  Q. (Question on how the course is playing)  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah, it doesn't play the same. Obviously you can put it on great lies and so the shot making's a lot easier versus not doing it.  
  
  Q. (No microphone)  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah. Well, I mean it's this people who make up the majors. So, I mean, look at who is playing it's just awesome feel.  
  
  Q. (Question about playing here last year)  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I think every year I've gotten better and just worked on things and it's just progressively getting better than where I was at four years ago really. I mean four years ago I would panic if I got anywhere near the top ten. Like that was a new experience. And now it's nice just to kind of be in the situation and I'm more comfortable.  
  
  Q. You have a couple shots back on your back nine. How did you keep the round together?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Actually I didn't get ahead of myself. To be honest I'm really relaxed this week. Just, it's almost like there's no care factor, if I can explain the feeling. I'm not intense. I don't really -- it's just one more shot.   
 I nearly made, I think it was five I bogeyed, yeah, I nearly -- the par putt went in and it kind of came out. It should have went in. But it was just one of them things what happen, and then birdied two of the last three. So it's that type of course, too. It can bite you a little bit if you don't hit the right shots.  
  
  Q. Do you feel that attitude will serve you well on the weekend?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah for sure. Obviously tomorrow it's going to be a more intense atmosphere and there will be more people out. But in saying that I've been in this position before, so I just got to draw on my past experiences and just focus?  
  
  Q. Why do you think you are less intense? Is that something you are trying to do consciously?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah I think so. I mean some weeks I'm -- my game's in at a different level. The last few weeks you kind of go up and down. I've been on a downer for the last three weeks. So I think coming into this week there was really no pressure on my game. And no expectations. And that's the best way to play golf. Because all of a sudden you're like, oh, I'm 5-under, 4-under.  
  
  Q. Have you played with Lorena before?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yes.  
  
  Q. On the weekend?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah I do. On a Saturday, I think it was Alabama last year.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: : Any other questions for Lindsey.  
  
  Q. What was that experience like?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Playing with Lorena?  
  
  Q. Do you remember what you did?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: What I did? I played horrendous. (Laughter) we're not going to go through that round though. No it's always great. I played with Stacy as well. I mean I played with them girls in college so it was not like an intimidating experience it was just kind of nice to play with them and catch up.  
  
  Q. But you didn't play well that day?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: No.  
  
  Q. (No microphone)  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Is there a hole on the course?  
  
  Q. Yes.   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: I think 11, 12 and 13 are great tough holes. If you're not you know really specific with your Target then they can really jump up. 11 is a tough Par 5. If you get in the rough it's tough shot in. Obviously 12 if the wind's coming out of the right then it's hard to commit to hit it at the flag. And the I think if the course dries out then a lot more, obviously more holes will come into play.  
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: : Any other questions for Lindsey? Okay thank you all very much. Lindsey good luck tomorrow.  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT