MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 5, 2008
Lindsey Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LINDSEY WRIGHT: First I hit a 6-iron to about 30 feet and made the putt.   
 5, I hit driver, 6-iron to eight feet and made the putt for birdie.   
 9, I hit driver, 8-iron to four feet.   
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: You had a good round and did very well here last year. This is one of your career-best finishes here. Do you have any memories coming back to Bulle Rock golf course and starting this tournament again?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah, I just love this golf course, I played it 30-odd times now, so I don't really -- it's nothing new. I know where to hit it, where not to hit it, what the predominant wind is going to be. A few years ago, it was pretty wet, as well, so all of the greens are softened, you can go right at the flag. It's good birdie conditions today I thought.   
  
  Q. Talk about the course yesterday, because we have heavy rain here, it was like a monsoon type forecast and today is really hot and humid, did the course change over time?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Yeah, obviously with the rain it's going to soften it up and they brought the tee boxes up on 13, 18, which are very tough par 4s anywhere. But now instead of hitting a 3-wood and a rescue club, you're hitting 8-irons and short irons so that's birdie opportunity right there.  
 But this course when it dries out, it's tough and it plays hard and fast and that's when you get into some trouble, especially off the tee.   
  
  Q. Which way do you prefer playing it more?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: The hard and the fast or the soft? Obviously the easier way which is the softer the conditions, the better. You can be a bit more aggressive with your approach shots into the flags so you have more chance at birdies.   
  
  Q. Do you play this course -- you've played it so many times, is that for practice in a tournament?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Just from practicing and playing the tournament over the last four years.   
  
  Q. How many times would you say you've played it?  
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Probably about 30 times.   
  
  Q. Looking at the conditions today and then looking into tomorrow, is there anything that you foresee changing with your game or any adjustments?   
 LINDSEY WRIGHT: Hopefully it dries out a lot more tomorrow, but if that's the case, they might put the tee boxes back, but again, I don't know, so it might play longer. But as far as my game plan is concerned, it won't change too much. I'll probably take my approach shots into the greens, I won't fly it straight at the hole. I'll fly it ten yards short.   
 But again, it just depends if it rains tonight or if it dries out or if it's windy tomorrow morning.  
 DANA GRASSRHODE: Thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT