NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 28, 2007
Lindsey Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Lindsey, thanks for joining us here again today.  You're now 9-under.  67 yesterday, 68 today, and you're four strokes behind the leader.  Talk about your momentum and just the way you played. 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, sure.  I started -- well, my momentum, I started off with a bogey today on No. 10 and that kind of helped me refocus, if anything. 
 And then I birdied 12.  I had a 5-iron in.  That was 177 yards.  That was a good birdie. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  How far? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  It was about 12 feet.  On the Par 5, the 10th, it was about 65 yards away from the hole and hit a terrible chip in and I had to chip up.  So I chipped and 2-putted for a bogey, which was disappointing.  It was like a two-shot swing for me on that hole because it was for birdie. 
 I had a par putt from about ten feet and missed the par putt. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  How about the birdie on 16. 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  The birdie on 16 I hit a 9-iron 125 yards over the flag and it rolled down to about seven feet and I made that for birdie.  On 16 it was a Par 3, so it's two. 
 So then I finished what, 1-under for the back 9, which was a good score I felt considering the conditions.  It was a little windy.  And then coming into the front side I parred the first two holes and birdied 3 and 4. 
 And on 3rd I hit a 6-iron 150 yards to about 15 feet and made that for birdie. 
 On 4 I hit a 4-iron to 197 and made that for birdie.  Sorry, in fact, no it wasn't a 4-iron it was a 5-iron and I hit it to about two feet. 
 8 was a Par 5 and I was on the side of the green and 2-putted for birdie.  That was about a six-foot putt for birdie. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  What is your game plan for the weekend being this close to the lead and playing in the lead group it looks like? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  I was just really relaxed the last two days.  Felt really comfortable.  Just I worked so hard on my game, and it's just nice to be able to -- just been hitting one shot at a time.  It's like everyone says it.  I feel like I'm repeating it. 
 It just felt so easy, and is that's a great feeling going into a weekend.  Obviously there's going to be probably more pressure and more people out there, but I kind of like that, too.  I enjoy that. 
 So I'm looking forward to playing actually.  Just nice be in contention and playing.  I'll probably play with Stacy or Lorena.  Either one will be a treat. 

 Q.  Did you notice Stacy kind of got out fast early and kind of ran a way from everybody.  Did that put in your mind that you had to make some birdies just to keep up with her and not let her get too far away? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, actually I was not even thinking about -- I saw her score and I thought, Wow, because she was 9-under yesterday.  So, what, she had 4-under, 13-under today, and I was eight strokes behind. 
 I wasn't even thinking about her more than just playing my own game and just trying to hit the greens and make the birdies. 

 Q.  Can you talk about your position.  Is this your best position going into the weekend in a long time? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, it is actually. 

 Q.  How do you think you'll handle that?  Will you put too much pressure on yourself? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  I don't feel any pressure at all, to be honest.  Yeah, if anything golf is a silly game really and anything can happen.  I just want to go out there and play the way I'm playing. 
 As far as nerves and pressure, it's something that you build up over time, and I feel like I can handle that pretty well anyway.  I just like to put the pressure on the leader, that being Stacy or Lorena or whatever. 
 But just to come down the stretch with a chance will be a great feeling on Sunday. 

 Q.  You mentioned the conditions were different today.  How much of a difference?  I guess the wind was a little heavier and a little stronger today. 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  Yeah, it was, especially the front 9.  I played on the back 9 first, so it was.  It did affect it a lot.  A lot of blind shots out there off the tee, so you really have to trust yourself and really trust the distances. 
 It's good.  I mean, that's what I expected:  The wind to get up.  Hopefully on the weekend it gets up as well. 

 Q.  I guess what part of your game has been better this week for to you get yourself in this position?  Just everything kind of come together so far? 
 LINDSEY WRIGHT:  I think everything has kind of come together.  If anything, my iron play is a little better and stronger than maybe what was it was a month ago.  I think it's all coming together pretty well, and it's always at the end of the year.  I wish it happened at the start of the year. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT